Forward into Forty!

HE mission of the Boys’ Club is to get as

many boys as possible off the street and
away from sinister influences, to provide
opportunities for clean and wholesome play,
to teach young Americans the thrill of doing
something constructive because they like to
do it, to offer an example of upright living
through sympathetic and experienced leader-
ship, to recognize the existence of the gang as
a nucleus which contains the grass roots of
democracy, and to help those roots to grow
and blossom into the full fruit of American
citizenship.

The automobile, the radio, the movies, elec-
tric power, even the tremendous onset of the
higher-education movement, can never make
unnecessary such basic qualities as courtesy,
sincerity, courage, tolerance, understanding
and friendship.

And in like measure, however much we
study, and research, and survey, and evaluate
the problems of youth, the essential need for
simplicity, candor and friendliness will for-
ever remain.

A Boys’ Club is'a place, a building contain-
ing recreation equipment attractive to boys,
not a program only, not a creed, not a slogan,
not a political prOphecy, but a place, let us
hope, always open, always hospitable, always
a ready refuge for a boy in need.

It is for those who need it most; none is too
ragged, none too impolite, none too rough,
none too underprivileged to be refused its
friendliness. We are imbued with a confi-
dence born of many a shining experience, a
confidence which persists even when many of
our fellow men doubt and other organizations
reject; a confidence that underneath even a
forbidding exterior lie latent abilities and
hidden qualities of manliness, honor, in-
tegrity and good citizenship.

.

The Boys’ Club makes no use of the oppor-
tunity for regimentation. It resists the temp-
tation to enlist boys of immature'age in semi-
military legions as is done in Europe. It seeks
to preserve and not destroy the independence

and freedom of every one of its members.
Boys’ Clubs of America takes pride when
referred to as the largest body of non-uni-
formed boys in the world.

Most unique and most irreplaceable of all
the distinctive attributes of a Boys’ Club is
that it is a club—to be joined, to be a mem-
ber of, to be defended, to be loyal to; it repre-
sents a group of people of one’s own choosing,
and has that aspect of proprietary interest
impossible elsewhere. In this conception of
a Boys’ Club resides an outstanding reason
why public or political control of a Boys’
Club can never replace private sponsorship.

It is not a case work agency but it can
recognize the need for sympathetic and skill-
ful treatment of individual needs and make
an appropriate referral. Neither in Clubs
nor out can boys be coddled, or threatened or
marshaled into citizenship. Our oldest and
wisest Boys Club leaders are using the Club
not as a place for play alone but as prepara-
tion for a life service. The Boys’ Club is no
place for a leader of so little faith in Ameri-
can boyhood as to desire only to administer
to them the anodyne of amusement. He is as
much concerned with what boys can do for
the Club and for the community as with what
he can do for the boys.

There is much discussion nowadays about
group work and its possibilities, as though it
were a new idea. The classification of cer-

 

tain types of workers dealing with groups of
people into a descriptive category may be new
but the idea of deve10ping boys’ characters
through gangs, or clubs, or just plain groups
is as old as Boys’ Clubs and that means nearly
three-quarters of a century. Every Boys’
Club has so-called groups through which it
works. The annual report of the National
Organization for 1939 records the existence
of more than 3,000 group clubs in active Oper-
ation. It is no new discovery that qualities
of tolerance and mutual help and the eleva-
tion and stimulation of standards of citizen-
ship can be deve10ped by the group process
when both the mass and individual approaches
have failed. Boys’ Club men have continu-
ously demonstrated the value of the group
type of activity.

Hence we insist—I am persuaded to an ex-
tent greater than any of our contemporaries—-
on the presence in our leaders of the natural,
innate qualities of friendliness, understanding
and confidence. We are not foolish enough to
assert that the natural qualities of leadership
are all that are needed but we do say that

without them education is futile. We need the '

help of all that education can give us; we
invite the colleges to send us their best men,
but as is clearly stated in our booklet, “Lead-
ership,” we do not want college men, how-
ever many degrees they possess, unless the
basic qualities therein described are present.

In the meantime we shall continue to rely
on many a Boys’ Club graduate for leader-
ship; we shall provide training courses for as
many as will avail themselves, and shall in-
sist on the recognition of Boys’ Club service
as a career. It is with pride that we point out
that five of the last six appointments for newly
organized Boys’ Clubs were men tried and
not found wanting in the actual management
of Boys’ Club. No false notions of the inher-
ent value of education without experience
will swerve us from a purpose, possibly
unique, at any rate essential, of (l) recruiting
and promoting such natural leaders from our
Clubs as show a propensity for growth and a
hospitality for education and training and, (2)
restricting the intake from our colleges to
those who have demonstrated the inherent
qualities we seek, those of wisdom with peo-

 

MARCH I940

 

ple, friendliness, personal integrity, a sense
of humor and that indelinable quality of being
a “regular guy” with a personality that draws
boys to him as a natural leader.

Although recent claims have been made
that it is not wholly living up to its ideals, the
public school in America has. been a main
reliance in the production of citizenship. But
it has and must have an element of discipline
about it. Who is so idealistic as to believe that
we can arrive at a condition where the formal
educational and recreational processes are
synchronous? For this reason, for example,
our handicraft activity takes a voluntary form
of vocational exploration and concerns itself
with recreation and helpful guidance for
future usefulness rather than content itself
with mere vocational education such as some
schools provide. The strong point in the Boys’
Club is that it presents an alternative to
school, relief from discipline (at least super-
imposed discipline)’, a change to something
we do because we want to. We go to the Club,
we don’t stay after school in it. We may ex-
pect great things from the extracurricular ac-
tivities of our school; not for a long time to
come will there be too many recreation op-
portunities, but we shall not relinquish to the

school the function of the separately organized
Club building.

Here are our New Year’s resolutions, then:
With pride in the unchanging validity of our
own traditions, with minds Open to all the
light of knowledge we can acquire, with a
consciousness of our own independence of
thought and action, with no hesitation or genu-
flection in the face of specious or temporary
philosophies which run counter to our own.
with tolerance and cooperation towards all
our fellow workers in our own and allied
fields; with a clear vision of the central fact
that it is the needy boy himself who claims
our devotion and not the mechanism we de-
vise for serving him—with a sure knowledge
that here is a cause than which none is more
noble, let us go forward into 1940 to achieve

greater tasks than we have ever achieved
before.

SANFORD BATES

From The Keystone, January, 1940, published
by The Boys’ Clubs of America.

 

Research in Recreation

CIEN’I‘IFIC RESEARCH in recreation is a rela~
S tively new development, and for this'r'eason
many difficulties face the research workers.
Interpretations of various terms differ greatly.
Many personal and social effects are so intangible
that it is impossible to measure them. Moreover,
certain activities which are not socially acceptable,
such as gambling and drinking, are not included
in check lists of actual or desired participation
because they conflict with traditional mores. This
confusion permits only a few generalizations to
be made with any degree of accuracy. There is,
however, an increasing need of research in this
field in order to prevent mistakes, clarify objec-
tives, formulate programs, study effects of various
types of leadership, and discover the efficiency of
different forms of program organization or lead-
ership training curricula.

Although man has always in one way or an—
other sought recreation, his acceptance of ade-
quate planning for socially valuable use of leisure
time has failed in previous

By
G. M. GLoss

Louisiana State University

With all the progress
which has been made in
the recreation field,
much still remains to
be done, studies show

resulting leisure time to further man’s betterment,
Much of our present neglect in recognizing rec-
reation as an institution of society is due to the
fact that it has been traditionally associated with
idleness and has not been regarded as a possi-
bility for a creative approach to the perpetuation
of valuable social ideals.

In America the first stage of development in
public recreation stressed largely the play life of
children. Since the World War, however, the
promotion of adult education for returned service
men and increased appreciation of the leisure-
time needs of all adults have given adult recrea—
tion a place in the good life. Much of the de-
velopment in the seventies and eighties was in the
field of college athletics, but after the World War
interest in many recreational activities expanded
the leisure-time program. Recently interest in i11-
dividual and dual sports has become evident. A
large increase in recreational facilities has come

through the activity of governmental agencies.
Recreation within the

civilizations. It would seem
that contemporary civiliza—
tion has reached about the
same point in its cycle as
other civilizations faced with
the problem of leisure.
Power has been released to
give man freedom, but we
have neglected to utilize the

This article is a résumé of a chapter com-
piled by Mr. Gloss for the Encyclopedia of
Educational Research which is to be edited
by Dr. Walter Monroe ot the University of
Illinois. In preparing the material the
author consulted many Masters' theses and
Doctorate studies. and a large number of
booksI magazine articles' reports. surveys.
yearbooks. bulletinsI mimeographed state-
ments and similar sources of information.

home, studies have shown,
occupies the greatest amount
of time, with reading, the
radio, visiting, and conver-
sation using the largest
share. Attending movies,
automobile riding, watching
athletic spectacles, and other
passive, non-creative activi-

651

652 RESEARCH IN RECREATION

ties retain their popularity. The corner drug store
and roadside dance places are still rendezvous for
youth. Much remains to be done in rural districts
for the recreation of the farmer and his family.

Commercial recreation as a whole is interested
in money making. It offers, regardless of quality,
amusement for every purse and class of people,
and hence exerts a powerful influence upon a
large group. Most commercial recreation fails to
meet the deeper cultural needs of a people im-
poverished by a machine civilization. Most of it
is passive, vicarious, and non-creative.

Recreation, it would seem, should to a greater
degree be taken over as a public responsibility
without, however, permitting governmental cen-
tralization of authority. To prevent such central-
ized control, many feel that the community itself
should form councils to solve common problems
such as the use of leisure time. There is need,
these people believe, for a relating of all social.
character—building. educational, commercial, and
vocational interests so that there can be some com-
monly understood goals within the community
itself and the organization of a program by the
local community.

At the present time the organization and ad-
ministration of community recreation is still a
controversial issue, though the belief in the sup-
port of recreation through tax funds as a desir-
able method of financing the program is meeting
with more general acceptance.

Our economic structure is profoundly affected
by the way in which people use their spare time.
Their demands will influence the direction in
which many manufacturing developments will go.
In turn, many of those who work for a living are
dependent upon their income for the quality of
their leisure-time activities. Higher salaries, how-
ever, do not necessarily make for better standards
in the choice of recreation. For the population at
large, greater income may further the imitation of
the activities engaged in by the wealthier class,
such as riding in automobiles, traveling, watching
spectacles, joining organizations, and indiscrimi-
nately purchasing non-essential equipment.

This points to the need for a more extensive
program of public education. At present our
schools are not meeting their full responsibility
for educating for the wise use of leisure. Many
physical education programs on the high school
and college level are still concentrating on gym-
nastics and team sports in spite of the desire on
the part of the students for individual and dual

sports which can be used now and in later life.
Extracurricular activities are in many instances
slighted, and those subjects which could be used
for hobby interests, such as English, music, arts
and crafts, are taught by such formalized methods
that students fail to enjoy them in school and
dislike them afterward. Instead of stimulating
pupils to creative and enjoyable activities, there
are widely practiced forms of program activity
which restrain and inhibit, thus destroying inter-
ests which might continue to exist outside of the
school situation. Most students after graduation
are without excellent skill in individual or dual
sports and have no discriminating appreciation of
the arts, literature, or handcraft. Co—recreation,
though widely publicized, has not been accepted
by the high school or college administrators as a
whole.

Beyond the task of the schools, the acceptance,
promotion, and maintenance of an adequate pro-
gram necessitate provision for out—of—school rec—
reation through education for preschool age chil-
dren, and for unemployed and employed youth
and adults. To achieve this there must be leaders
of a social engineering type to educate and guide
this type of program. At the present time leader—
ship training in this field is'not given an adequate
amount of attention in higher education, and sal-
aries are too low for workers. This means that
not only does it attract too few superior people
but the few adequately trained individuals who
are in the field frequently leave for higher salaries
in other helds of work. The training program in
the traditional university consists chieHy of lec-
tures and of theory rather than of actUal experi-
ences evaluated in terms of a consistent philosophy.

There is inadeqUate understanding of the effect,
upon both the individual and the social order, of
participation in leisure-time activities. Personal-
ity growth and development, according to some
of the studies which have been made, depend to a
great degree upon the type of recreational oppor-
tunities for the infant, child, youth, and adult.
Even such intangible factors as a feeling of se-
curity, acceptance of responsibility, integrity, per-
sonality development, and social attitudes are
often dependent upon the quality of experience
gained in play life.

America as a new country has not yet found
for itself a cultural outlook. Prestige is still given
largely to the securing of wealth and to display
rather than to creative ability and appreciation
which have only too often become either the

RESEARCH IN RECREATION

-W:

Contesy [VPA

pursuit of a few in the Many physical ac’rivi’ries have become social-

. . . Amon man -' the arts still
. Ized In recen’r years. Mos’r encouragingI Jroo. g y

leisure class or escape for

maladjusted individuals.

is ’rhe fac’r ’rl'ia’r people are lurning increas- Carry the Stigma of ef-
ingly ’ro more creai'ive uses of leisure ’rime. (Continual 0" P090 696)

Courtesy W PA

 

A Folly Party I. 

"Who are a little wise
the best tools be"

comes with the receipt of the invitation, this
advance messenger should be dressed with
elaborate care. If possible, it should carry a hid-
den suggestion to keep the recipient guessing.
Cut April Fool dunce caps, four inches tall,
from white art paper, and top them with red
pompoms sketched on with red ink. They carry

this verse, written in red ink, to the guests:

“Where ignorance is bliss
’Tis folly to be wise,"

So come out to our party

In some April Foolish guise.
We’ll be goofy and giggly,
And never sedate;

On April the First,
Please arrive about eight.

When the guests arrive at the appointed time,
they find the house entirely dark with the excep—
tion of a small light on the front porch.. Tacked
on the front door underneath the light is a notice
which reads, “Have been suddenly called out of
the city. For further information inquire at back
door.”

As the guests wander around through the side
yard they are confronted with such signs as “De—
tour,” “Drive slowly,” “Danger,” “School Zone,”
“Bridge under construction,” “Proceed at own
risk.” At each one of these signs some simple
device has been rigged up to fool the guests and
make them think worse dangers are ahead. For
example, above one sign wet sponges on strings
have been suspended from
the limbs of a tree at ust the
right height to dab a guest in
the face as he leans forward
to read the sign. At another,
fine wire springs have been
unwound and scattered about
on the ground. When some—
one stumbles upon a wire it
curls up around the unsus—

654

AS THE FIRST thrill of any party is that which

  
 

April Fool's Day, or All Fools' Day, is
a day dear to children by reason of the
sanction it gives them to indulge in all
sorts of mischievous and harmless pranks.
lts origin, although unknown. is at least
as old as "Poor Robin's Almanac," dating
from the I600's. In English-speaking coun-
tries the victim ot a ioke is called an

"April Fool"; in Scotland he is a "Gowk,"
and in France he is kno'wn as a "Fish."

 for April First

By

LOIE E. BRANDOM
St. Joseph, Missouri

pecting victim’s ankles. At another place the guest
unwittingly rubs against a taut cord which starts
a set of bells ringing.

When the back door is finally reached, a little
figure dressed as a court jester, or “April Fool,”
opens it ceremoniously. He declares that “His
Majesties were only foolin' and. won’t the guests
please come into the castle?” This mixing of the
ancient and modern is very effective, if carried
out properly.

Inside, the house is a riot of all the colors of
the rainbow. The scene resembles the main hall
of an ancient castle, for on a raised dais at one
end of the room are seated the “King and Queen
of Folly Land.” Around them stand several pages,
who later mingle with the guests, all of whom are
in gala attire. The King and Queen preside over
the festivities and announce the first games and
contests much as they were announced at medieval
tournaments, with the exception that all formality
is soon dropped in the interests of a general good
time.

The first contest happens to be a Carnival Relay
Race. The guests are divided into teams of equal
size and stationed behind the starting tape, and a
goal line is marked with chalk across the opposite
end of the room. The leader of each team is
handed a Hy swatter and an inHated rubber bal—
loon. At the signal the leaders place their balloons
on the floor and start for the goal line, propelling
the balloons with the Fly
swatters. This requires self—
control, for if a balloon bursts,
the owner must return to the
starting tape, blow up an—
other balloon and tie it Se-
curely before starting again
in the race. As number one
of each team crosses the goal

(Continucd on page 696)

mm- u.—

|

|
l
l
|

We Play Cards at Our Recreation Center

ARD PLAYING as a rec-
C reational activity in

public recreation cen-
ters appears to have in-
creased tremendously in recent years. No doubt
this is due to at least two great influences: partly
to the widespread publicity given the game of
bridge and its various “systems” through the
mediums of radio, publications and lectures, and
partly to greater patronage of public recreation
areas by adults. As requests for opportunities to
play cards become greater, more and more recre—
ation department executives who have considered
card playing “out” as a recreational activity won~
der if they should not modify their attitude in the
light of this apparent new demand.

50 the questions arise: How can this activity
be administered so it will not offend those attend-
ing the recreation centers and who still carry a
prejudice against card playing? What can be done
to guide the play of participants into constructive
channels and avoid the practice of gambling?
Toward the solution of these problems the Los
Angeles Department of Playground and Recrea-
tion has evolved practices over a period of years
which appear to give the desired control and yet
offer a degree of freedom comparable to that of
any other well-established recreation activity. The
succeeding paragraphs tell the methods and tech-
niques used under varying situations, and may be
suggestive of ways of handling problems attend—
ant upon card playing in other localities. They are
by no means to be accepted as being the only solu-
tions, nor even as being completely satisfactory in
every instance of their application; but it can be
said that these practices,
coupled with i wise direc—

By LOUIS A. ORSATTI

Department of Playground and Recreation
Los Angeles. California

( A) Organizations that
wish occasional use of fa-
cilities for a - card party.
Sometimes these are Parent-
Teacher groups, church groups, fraternal organi-
zations, or even private groups. Those classified
as civic organizations, whose parties are open to
the general public, are granted a free permit upon
application at the Central Office. Closed or private
organizations (in which the membership is limited)
are charged-a 'fee of three dollars for the first
two hours and one dollar per hour thereafter.
This occasional card party requires but nominal
supervision by the recreation director since the
group already has a leader to whom the permit
is issued. Refusal to obey Department regula-
tions is reported by the director, and future re-
quests for use of facilities may be denied. Such
groups are allowed to charge an admission fee
provided proceeds are used to pay the expenses of
the party or for a public benefit.

Nothing further need be said regarding such
card playing organizations since they have. not
been a particularly vexing problem and their pro-
gram is a simple one to administer.

(B) Many people wish to play cards regularly,
once or twice each week, for a two or three hour
period in the evening, or perhaps in the afternoon.
Since these are recurrent groups with which the
director has a continued relation, the problems
are different and more numerous than with or—
ganizations granted a permit to play cards only
occasionally. ' _

(c) Finally, there are those men, many elderly,
who are unemployed or retired, who want to meet
others on a very informal,
social basis and to play in—

tional supervision, have
been helpful and have
made it possible to accord
a place to card playing in
the public recreation pro-
gram of Los Angeles.

Three Types of Card
Playing Groups
Requests to play cards

come from three different
classes of individuals:

Mr. "Orsatti. who is Senior Recreation Director
in Charge of Boys' and Special Activities,
describes the methods used in varying situa-
tions to prevent bad practices in connection
with card playing. "These methods may be sug-
gestive to other localities in handling their
problems." says Mr. Orsatti. "They are by no
means to be accepted as the only solutions en-
tirely satisfactory in every instance of their
application. It can be saidI however. that
these practices. coupled with wise directional
supervision. have been helpful and have made
it possible to accord a place to card playing in
the public recreation program of Los Angeles."

formally at cards at any
time during the day. It is
this class which demands
the most careful control
and supervision.

Let us consider separately
the problems dealing with
classes (B) and (C), be-
cause each is handled a little
differently, and the facili-
ties provided are of a dif-
ferent kind for each group.

655

(150 IVE PLAY CARDS A'l' OUR RECREATION CENTER

 

Facilities for the Weekly Recurrent Players

Card players who meet for a limited period of
play each week are adults, each group numbering
from twenty to two hundred or more. They are
accorded the use of indoor facilities, consisting'of
a room of the community clubhouse, or in some
instances, the main hall. These meetings are held
at a time when children are least likely to be en-
gaging in indoor activities—either when the latter
are in school or at night. If children are about,
their attention is diverted away from the card
players. Bridge, Five Hundred and V’Vhist seem
to be the games most popular.

Meeting indoors as described sometimes re-
quires considerable work setting up and later re—
moving the bridge tables and chairs. The group
itself undertakes this responsibility. A limited
number of bridge tables are furnished by the de—
partment but their use is not confined to card
playing alone. Where the demand becomes so
great as to exceed the table facilities supplied, the
players must furnish additional tables. These
tables are sometimes purchased from funds raised
through activities of the players (by dues, assess—

Card players and members
of the chess and checkers
clubs have their own room
at Exposition Playground.
Combined with the horse-
shoe courts. the area repre-
sents a complete men's unit.

ments or programs).
They then become the
property of the depart-
ment and are stored at
the local center. No re-
striction may be placed
upon membership by
these groups; the activity
is open to the public and
anyone may take part
insofar as the facilities
permit.

Smoking usually ac-
companies card playing
and is permitted; ash
trays are provided.

Control Measures

Being a fairly compact group consisting of ap—
proximately the same persons each meeting,
sttpervision by the recreation director can be ap-
plied quite effectively. Responsibility for the
proper conduct of the activity is placed upon the
group itself by requiring the players to elect a
floor committee which shall see that members be—
have in accordance with Department regulations.
This committee in turn is held to account by the
recreation director.

As much freedom as possible is granted. but
two policies are enforced. There may be no play—
ing for money, and all receipts must be handled by
a committee consisting of the director and several
others chosen by the players. An account is kept
of funds taken in and expended and thedirector
has access to the books. Patrons are permitted to
contribute toward a “kitty” with which prizes are
purchased and awarded to the winners. They may
also assess themselves toward building a fund
from which refreshments, cards, and card tables,
may be purchased. Cash prizes may not be
awarded, though merchandise certilicates which

 

WE PLAY CARDS AT OUR RECREATION CENTER 057

can be exchanged for anything the holder may
desire up to the value of the certificate are often
used. Policies relating to gambling and handling
of funds apply to all card groups.

As might be expected, gambling can become a
serious problem and sometimes considerable edu-
cation is necessary to convince all players that
playing cards for recreation alone is sufficient.
Constant vigilance and alertness on the part of
the floor committee are essential. Recreation di—
rectors forming new card groups must be espe-
cially aware of this problem and must expect to
have to cope with it during the early stages of
organization.

\Vise recreation leaders will operate through
the floor committee and appeal to or instruct the
whole group as a last resort, and only after the
committee fails to function. Continued violation
of the regulations results in disbandment of the
card group, but this action is a very last move
when all other efforts fail. Over a period of
several years, during which dozens of card groups
have operated, only once was a card club dis-
banded because of refusal to cooperate. Revok-

  

I ' '
.- ..-

ing use of facilities is done upon recommendation
of the director and approval of the Superintendent.

Facilities Provided for Daily Card Players

Many playgrounds have become gathering
places for middle aged and elderly men. They
frequently express a desire to play cards as well
as checkers, chess, croquet, roque and horseshoes.
Indeed, it is advisable to provide facilities for
such play; otherwise the idle men will find less
constructive things to do. They may resort to
surreptitious gambling or may disturb the care-
takers or gardeners and be in the way of younger
patrons.

After a cautious experiment at one playground,
the practice now is to allocate an area somewhat
remote or secluded from the center of activities
and known as the “men’s area.” Facilities pro—
vided include horseshoe courts, roque court, picnic
tables for chess and checker players, and special
tables for card players. The tables are sometimes
covered by a pergola. Frequently a small one-
room field house is provided, with floor space to
accommodate thirty to fifty men. Such a structure

2H
my.
’b'h
o ,, -"
g i .7

v‘
13..
3.39,

D J

    

658

is designed with windows completely around it.
Care and upkeep of these special facilities are
usually made a responsibility of the men usmg
them. Roque courts need careful attention, horse-
shoe courts must be kept in good condition, and
the card playing areas or buildings require much
more janitorial service than is ordinarily neces-
sary since they are in constant use. For the most
part, the men prefer to attend to the facilities
themselves and relieve the regular caretaker. The
Recreation Department has designed special heavy
duty card tables for these “men’s areas.”
Locating such facilities remote from children’s

areas, and where this is not possible, surroundlng‘

the area with shrubs and landscaping so as to
give it an appearance set apart, sets at rest the
fears of parents that. their children might become
involved in activities which may be frowned upon
at home. It also gives the players a feeling of
privacy and freedom from annoyances they might
otherwise have. In a few instances it has been
possible to set aside and equip for card playing
one room of the large recreation building which
is cared for just as the field house described
above. Where this is the case, the card room has
a special entrance used by the players, thus per—
mitting the game room to be segregated from the
rest of the building.

Control by Charter Method

Administration of a continuous daily program
of card playing such as goes on at a “men’s area”
requires more care and thought than does the
weekly recurrent group activity conducted indoors
for two or three hours each period. Hence the
Los Angeles Recreation Department is gradually
bringing these “daily meeting” groups under
charter control. By this is meant the men or-
ganize as a club with elected officers and adoption
of a constitution and by-laws. They must apply
to the local recreation director for an “Applica-
tion for Playground Club Charter.” After this is
properly filled out, the application, constitution
and by-laws are given to the director for approval.
The director frequently advises and assists in
drawing up the club papers. Next these are sent
to the Central Office for final approval and filing
and the new group is mailed a charter, good for
one year, but revokable at any time at the discre—
tion of the Department. All charters expire auto-
matically at the end of each year and new applica-
tions must then be made. After a club is once
issued a charter, it is unnecessary to submit a

IVE PLA l" CARDS AT OUR RECREATION CENTER

constitution and by-laws again, but revisions made
since previous issuance of charter must be

submitted.

The “Application for Charters and Charter
Renewal” form consists of three sheets. One lists
the conditions under which the Recreation De-
partment issues the charter, and the others, dupli-

cates, request certain information. One duplicate
is filed at the Central Office and the other be-
comes part of the local recreation director’s file.

Following are the instructions to clubs and the
conditions under which a charter is issued:

JANUARY I940
APPLICATION FOR CHARTERS AND
CHARTER RENEWALS
(Director: Club Leader to keep this sheet)

All existing charters issued by the Department of Play-
ground and Recreation are declared void as of February
28, 1940, by order of. the Playground and Recreation
Commission. Playground clubs desiring charters and
renewal of charters may obtain them by submitting to
the local playground director the application form at-
tached. Such application signifies that club members
thoroughly understand that charters are issued subject
strictly to the following department requirements:

(a) Charters issued to the various groups will auto-
matically be cancelled at the end of each calendar year
and their renewal will be subject to application through
the playground director in each case.

(b) By issuance of the charter, or renewal thereof, it is
understood that the club is under the supervision and
direction of the Playground and Recreation Department
through the recreation director.

(6) The time when meetings are held and playground
facilities upon which clu'b activities are conducted, are
subject to the decision of the director. In the «interests
of the general program the director may change either
time or facilities at his discretion.

(d) Charter groups may maintain only one afiiliation,
namely, that with the Playground and Recreation De-
partment. Other affiliations will be considered cause for
cancellation of charter.

(e) Charters will be issued only to recreation groups,
i.e., playground groups organized for the purpose of con-
ducting recreation activities.

(f) Membership in chartered clubs must be open to
the general public without restriction.

(g) Charters will be issued only to non—profit groups,
i.e., groups which conduct activities which conduce to the
pecuniary advantage of no one.

The application itself consists of the following:

APPLICATION FOR PLAYGROUND CLUB

CHARTER OR RENEWAL
1. Name of Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

2. Adult or Junior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

3. Activity of Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
4. Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

-—-q-_.r_-_A.~._-

a,
l
i
?

5. Club President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I

(Combined on page 697)

 

Courtesy Camp Fire Girls, San Francisco

1’ UMP IN THE AIR and come right down, swing
J your honey ’round and ’round!” And the

Camp Fire Girls whirl in circles as old-time
iiddles scrape out the melody of a rollicking square
dance. Gala pioneer parties are being held by the
Camp Fire Girls throughout the land as a means
of finding out what a grand time their ancestors
used to have. The girls have gone Americana in
a big way, learning all they can about how their
forefathers lived, what they ate, how they dressed
and what they believed in.

Nothing is more fun than dressing up, and the
Camp Fire Girls got a great kick out of searching
through musty old trunks in the family attic for
authentic pioneer clothes to wear to their old—
fashioned parties. Costumes played an important
part in these events, and a wide variety of former
fashions from many different periods and differ—
ent parts of the country were represented. Some
girls came in the swishing taffeta worn by the
Governor’s lady, and others reproduced the sheer
simplicity of Shaker garb. The result was a fas-

By NANCY WALKER
Camp Fire Girls, lnc.

Camp Fire Girls all over the country this
year are hunting through attics searching
for authentic period clothing to wear to
pioneer parties at which the customs of
their ancestors are being revived and old
time fashions popularized. Much informa-
tion is being gathered on American lore.

cinating, if sometimes confusing medley of fash-
ions taken from diverse times, places and histori-
cal personalities in the vast American scene.

One little girl almost burst with pride when she
was allowed to appear in her great-grandmother’s
full skirted wedding dress of pUrple taffeta with
a tiny braided gold belt and gold lace around the
neck. Clever little lace hats were made from
doilies, which the girls decorated with flowers on
the top and velvet ribbons to tie in a bewitching
bow under their chins. Girls in Columbus, Ohio,
were permitted to model dresses loaned by the
State Museum at a historical fashion show.

The good old American bonnet, not the beruf-
fled type but the modest style which the practical
pioneer woman wore, was revived by the Camp
Fire Girls, who made their own little bonnets
with capes attached. Some were of oil silk, grand
on rainy days to keep hair dry and the rain from
trickling down one’s neck, and others were of
blue and white check gingham, attractive as sun
bonnets.

At an old-time party given in Michigan, guests
came dressed as Louisa May Alcott, Kate Douglas
Wiggin, Mary Lincoln, and even George VVash-
ington. The girls soon found that although hoop
skirts are loaded with glamour, they have their
drawbacks. In Harper's Bazaar for 1859 a Camp
Fire Girl discovered an ad for a new kind of
steel hoop skirt which would overcome many dif-
ticulties for ladies sitting in church, such as “large
occupancy of space” and “too frequent inelegant
displacement of their attire.”

659

660 CAMP FIRE GIRLS TURN BACK THE CLOCK

Dressing for the costume parties gave the girls
a much clearer idea of how their ancestors felt
about life. As Mother fastened the tight stays
around her daughter’s waistline, every little Camp
Fire Girl could readily see how a Colonial maid-
en’s demeanor would naturally be dignified and
prim. And everyone of them reported that in fine
lace ruffles and dainty curls she couldn’t imagine
doing much else but dancing a minuet and mak—
ing eyes at beaux!

This peppy message written on cards shaped
liked covered wagons invited guests to the fes-
tivities:

Dress up in the silks and satins and curls
That were all the style when our Grandmas were girls

Come with your fans and long lacy mitts

But leave home the lady who only knits
For I’m sure you’ll agree when the evening is done

That Grandmother’s work was tempered with fun.
\Ve’ll sing the old songs, dance a measure or two
And do the same things our forebears would do.

Out in California at a 49’ers’ party, even the
Dads donned blue jeans, broad-brimmed hats, red
neckerchiefs, and false walrus mustaches to join
their daughters in merrymaking. Fathers, moth—
ers, Camp Fire Girls and their boy. guests all
competed for prizes for the best costumes, judged
by the oldest living resident of the town. With
more enthusiasm than skill, young and old then
pranced through the figures of Shoo Fly, Turkey
in the Straw and the Virginia Reel. Favorite bal-
lads such as “The Man on the Flying Trapeze,”
“The Quilting Party,” “The Bird on Nellie’s
Hat,” and “\Vaiting at the Church” were warbled
with gusto.

At an Americana Social for five hundred people,
the program was climaxed by a show of tableaux
dramatizing local history. The games at another
party included “Professor Americana,” a quiz
contest about early America. The ice was
thoroughly thawed out at one gathering when a
slip of paper bearing the name of a famous early
American was pinned on the back of each guest,
who had to guess by questioning the rest of the
group whether she was labeled Miles Standish,
Paul Revere, or Pocahontas.

Old-fashioned games were unearthed for the
Camp Fire parties. More than a hundred years
old is “The Elements,” brought to life again by
the girls. The players sit in a circle, and the leader
throws a ball to someone in the circle, calling out
either Earth, Air, or Water. The catcher must
name an animal proper to the element that has
been mentioned. (If the element is air, the an-

swer could be eagle, vulture, sparrow, or what
you will.) If the catcher makes an error or fails
to reply, he is out of the game and the leader
throws the ball again. Otherwise the catcher takes
the leader's place.

“Musical Romance” is an entertaining game in—
troduced at an Americana party in Texas. Each
person was given a pencil and sheet of paper to
be numbered from one to fourteen, and it .was
explained that the titles of the songs to be played
were the answers to the fourteen questions. Then
the first question was asked, after which a few
measures of a song were played, and the guests
were asked to write down the answer, which was

the song’s title.
The questions and musical answers were:

1. Who was the bride? Sweet Adeline.

. What was the hero’s name? Ben Bolt. _

. Where was the bride born? Old Kentucky Home.
Where did they meet? Aunt Dinah’s Quilting Party. '
\Nhat did he give her? Roses of Picardy.

What song did she ask him to sing? Love’s Old

Sweet Song.
7. Who was a bridesmaid? Jeanie \Vith the Light

Brown Hair.

8. Where were they married? Church in the Wildwood.

9. Where did they go on the wedding trip? Dixie.

10. How did they go? Sailing.

11. \Vhom did they think of while they were gone? Old
Folks at Home.

12. Who met them when they returned? Old Black Joe.

13. Where did they live after the honeymoon? Little
Gray Home in the “fest. '

14. What did they then decide? Let the Rest of the
World 'Go By.

When the news leaked out that the uncle of a
Camp Fire Girl in Denver, Colorado, was a pro—
fessional caller of square dances, her friends de-
cided to give a barn dance. The boys wore over—
alls and the girls came in old-fashioned calico
dresses. All hands capered through the dances of
yesteryear until the musicians begged 'for a
breathing space. Then came the relay races, the
most riotous one being a suitcase race for boys
only. In each suitcase was an old-fashioned man’s
nightshirt, a scarf and large hat. The girls almost
rolled on the floor with laughter at the ludicrous
sight of their escorts dashing madly across the
room in these outfits. It took a spelling bee to
calm everyone down for the refreshments.

In Oregon the Camp Fire Girls chose to fete
their mothers .at a combination Valentine and
Americana party for which they themselves pre-
pared the invitations, decorations, games and re—
freshments. Each mother was summoned to the

affair by an old-fashioned girl paper (1011 dressed

Ooh)

PM“?

CAMP FIRE GIRLS TURN BACK THE CLOCK 661

in a pasted-on cotton dress. Upon arrival the
mothers were given bibs with their names on
them. Old-time games such as “London Bridge,”
“Pin the Tail on the Donkey,” and “Hard
Hearted” were played, with mothers teamed
against daughters. The latter game is played by
throwing darts at paper hearts hung on the wall.
and the heart having the least number of dart
pricks is the “hard-hearted.” The girls brought
their afternoon’s entertainment to a climax by
presenting an “Old Family Album” skit. Cake
and punch were served on a red and white table
around a centerpiece of pussy willows hung with
red candy hearts. The mothers surprised and
tickled the young hostesses by bringing along
their own baby pictures for display at the party.

An old-fashioned school party proved to be a
huge success in Michigan. Each girl, swinging a
lunch basket over her arm, escorted her grand-
mother to an old-style school session, where they
had a wonderful time swapping stories about old
and new school customs, recipes, games, and fash-
ions. The girls couldn’t understand why the foot-
warmer for church and the hand-warmer for
one’s muff aren’t still popular today! They were
summoned to “school” by the clang of a hand-
bell actually used at a little red schoolhouse sixty
years ago. i

Instead of a corn husk or
quilting bee, Detroit
Camp Fire Girls enjoy-
ed a soap-making party '
highly approved by the
mothers who received
the results of the after-
noon’s fun. A few ar-
tistic souls hoarded their
soap for future sculp-
tures.

Heirlooms were the
' main attraction at many
gay parties, and the
older people were proud
and delighted to show
their treasured relics
of the past. Pleased at
the youngsters’ interest
in antiques, many an
old-timer expressed his
appreciation for a
chance to resurrect the
past. In Eureka, Cali-
fornia, mothers became

Camp Fire Girls of Ponca City. Oklahoma.

with their mothers. turn back the clock

 

Courtesy Camp Fire Girls, Inc.

so interested that the girls had no trouble at all in
collecting lovely old things for their exhibit at an
Heirloom Tea. The Minneapolis Camp Fire Girls
assembled a very interesting collection of candle
snuffers, early American furniture and glass. The
Americana Fair given by Oshkosh girls featured
choice pieces from the collections of many Osh-
kosh settlers and old families.

When it came time for “the eats” at these
Americana parties, historic dishes were recreated
and old family recipes dug up. It’s the refresh-
ments by which the success of a party is so often
judged, and the appetizing Americana dainties
served by the Camp Fire Girls will long be
remembered.

Four generations cooperated in the case of the
cookies made for a party by a little Kansas girl
from a secret recipe belonging to her great-grand-
mother. Mother supervised the actual cooking of
these delicacies, Grandmother made the icing, and
Great-grandmother herself was present to cut
them.

Cakes played an important part in the lives of
our American ancestors, the Camp Fire Girls
found out during the course of their culinary re-
search, so they set to work to make some monu-
ments in sugar and spice, heeding the advice of
W illiam Alcott who thus ad—
monished young housekeep-
ers in 1838: “Away then
to the dignity of your
duties. You minister
not to the wants of a
few bodies but to the
wants of immortal
souls. You have char-
acters at your disposal,
not mere pots and
pans.” Among the lus-
cious cakes revived by
the girls for their feasts
were the Monticello
sponge cake, Thomas
Jefferson’s favorite
which calls for a dozen
eggs; Robert Lee jelly
cake; pecan cake, a fa-
vorite in Virginia where
pecans and other prod-
ucts were grown on
plantations; the Nun’s
Cake, probably the first

(Continued on page 698)

    

A. 

The Bar Flies, Winners at Tulsa

ARBER SIIOP HARMONY has once more become
B a national institution, and in a Big Way. The
habit of singing close harmony in masculine

groups, supposedly limited
to four voices, but actually
running anywhere from two
or three to a whole mob,
dates back to the gay nine—
ties and earlier.

But today America is
actually beginning to take
its close harmony seriously.
There is now a national
Society for the Preservation
and Encouragement of Bar-

from -Harlem.

This article is reprinted through the courtesy

I of the FallI I93?I issue of The Key-Note.

lt will be of interest to recreation workers
to know that Dr. Spaeth's "Barber Shop Bal-
lads" will soon be republished by Prentice
Hall' Inc.. New Yorkl in a greatly enlarged
edition with many new arrangements."Music
for Fun" (Whittlesey House. McGraw-Hill
Book Company. New York) contains much
material which should be helpful to recrea-
tion leaders. There might also be mention-

ed "Read 'Em and WeepII (Halcyon House).

By SIGMUND SPAETH

Gibson Girl Trios, won by the Gay Nineties Group

New York’s lorifications of the musical barber
g

shop go in heavily for peri-
od costumes, generally pre-
ceding the actual contest
with a parade of the sing-
ers, often drawn in old-
fashioned vehicles. The win-
ning Horseshoers lived up
to tradition, presenting a
picture of four colorful vil-
lage dandies and carrying
their gilt horseshoes with

her Shop Quartet Singing

in America. Its initials, SPEBSQSA, have the
distinction of being practically unpronounceable,
and its ring-leader and hardest worker, O. C. Cash,
of Tulsa, Oklahoma, is satisfied with the title of
Third Assistant Vice-President. Its membership
includes the governors of several states, Bing
Crosby and other movie stars, President-maker
Jim Farley, and other prominent names.

The Society held its first national barber shop
quartet contest in Tulsa this year, and the cham-
pionship was won by the Bar Flies from Bartles—
ville, pictured above, who both look and sing the
part. Runners-‘up were the Flat Foot Four, picked
from the Police Department of Oklahoma City.
(Incidentally, the new edition of Barber Shop
Ballads will contain their own particular interpre-
tation of Shine, as sung to the author on his ar-
rival in the oil fields of the Southwest.)

Park Commissioner Robert Moses hopes to
bring the national contest to New York next year.
For five years he has been holding successful con-
tests in the metropolitan area, with the finals gen-
erally taking place on the Mall in Central Park.
The most recent of these contests was won by the
St. Mary’s Horseshoers, with a special event for

662

them, ready for any kind
of competition. The lusty-
lunged Four Rubes exhibited a consistent check-

(Contimtrd on page 699)

These lusty lunged "Rubes" were the
New York winners at the Tulsa cont'est

 

Wide World
Tri-City Quartet—New York Winners

Song Along the Wabash

RS. HAWKINS has a good con—
M tralto voice. That’s why she

rises early two mornings a month at live
o’clock instead of six. She cooks a hearty break-
fast for her husband, three children' and the hired
man, packs the children’s lunch and starts them
toward school, finishes her housework, gathers the
eggs and puts the milk through the separator, and
by nine o’clock is burning up an Indiana road in
her car.

At ten she is singing vigorously in a small audi-
torium at the county seat, with thirty-nine other
farm and village housewives, rehearsing for their
next public concert. She
sings for one hour, sits in
at a round-table discussion
for thirty minutes more,
then rushes home to get
noon dinner for husband
and hired man.

Eighty-four of Indiana’s
ninety—two counties have
singing groups like this one.
These farm women sing be-
cause they like to sing. They
pay their own way. They
select their own songs. They
hire their own directors,
picking them by secret ballot and paying them
from $1 to $3 for each rehearsal. The women
sing well, with vigor and enthusiasm, and their
repertoire ranges from Bach and Brahms to Irish
folk songs, hymns, and Negro spirituals. Once
each year 2000 of them put on choir robes and
gather in one place for a musical binge; groups of
them have sung in New York, Washington and
Baltimore.

The reason Mrs. Hawkins rises early and drives
fast on rehearsal mornings is that she doesn’t
want to pay a fine. The privilege of attending
each rehearsal costs her live cents, and she must
add one cent for every minute she is late. If she
misses a meeting entirely she must fork over
twenty-five cents, and for three absences she is

dropped from membership.
. “That’s only fair,” she insists. “If I’m too buSy

to do my part, or not enough interested, I’m cer-
tafihiy not helping the others. If I’m so sick that
I°’i’ian’t get to rehearsals it means that my v01ce

By KARL DETZER

ot the enrichment of
rural life in Indiana through song is typi-
cal ot the way in which millions of peo-
ple in small towns and in the open country
may find lite. and find it more abundantly.
through recreation. With little money and
less organization. rural America is learn-
ing to live. During the past ten years.
through the services of the National Recre-
ation Association. more than 5|.000 rural
leaders in forty-six states have been train-
ed in institutes to give leadership to their
neighbors in music. drama. nature, games
and other lite-enriching forms of recreation.

This inspiring story

is in no shape to sing, and I ought
to get out.”

Organizer of this chorus is thirty-two year old
Albert Stewart, an Indiana boy who sang his way
through Purdue University, remained after grad-
uation to direct singing in a school which never
had a music department. Farm women in Tippe-
canoe County heard his Purdue choir on the radio
five years ago and asked him to form a chorus for
them. He did. Other counties copied the idea.
Now nearly 2400 Hoosier country women belong
to these Home Economics Choruses, and 300
others are waiting to be accepted. Indeed, the
idea has spread beyond the
state, and women in Ken-
tucky, th0, Washington,
Massachusetts, North Caro-
lina and South Dakota have
founded similar clubs.

The singing housewives
supplement their triiiing
dues by selling cakes, jelly,
candy, fancy work and
quilts. One county chorus
holds a sale each month,
making about $50. Another
group, by sales and con-
certs, raised $2000 in six-
teen weeks last summer to pay their way to New
York. They descended forty strong on the
World’s Fair, sang for an hour in the Court of
Peace, surprising the crowds that gathered to
hear Hoosier backwoods tunes by singing
Beethoven instead. '

Contrariwise, Mrs. Hawkins’ group sang “Home
on the Range” instead of Beethoven at the White
House; they thought the President would enjoy
it more.

These women sing for the fun of it, not, as
someone annoyed them by suggesting, “to break
the drudgery of drab lives with a bright moment
of culture.” They insist that their lives are not
drab, that thanks to electricity on nineteen out of
twenty of. their farms the drudgery is gone from
housekeeping.

“We get together and sing for the same reason
some women play bridge,” Mrs. Hawkins ex-
plains, “and we think it’s a lot more amusing.”

They are not “music starved,” either. Nearly

663

00-4 SONG ALONG THE WABASH

all have radios, and a survey of one club showed
that nearly half the members,listen to two or
more symphony programs a week. Many drive
occasionally to Indianapolis or Chicago to hear
concerts.

The average age of Indiana's singing house—
wives is forty-seven; they average not quite three
children each; nine out of ten are married, one
out of six is a grandmother. Fewer than ten per
cent have had any previous vocal training; more
than half must travel at least ten miles to

rehearsals.
Each year Stewart prepares a mimeographed

song book and distributes it at cost-——about five ‘

cents a copy——to the eighty-four clubs. With each
song is a brief discussion of the composer, the
place, time and conditions in which he lived, an
explanation of how the piece happened to be
written.

At a recent typical meeting, Mrs. Hawkins’
club sang the “Italian Street Song,” following
the rehearsal with a discussion of Italy in 1880
and of Italian folk music. More than twenty of
the thirty-five women present took part in the in-
formal talk, and all knew a great deal about
Naples before they were through. They were not
thinking of self-culture ; they were just naturally
interested in the people and the situation which
produced the lilting air.

The choruses sing at all
Home Economics club meet—
ings, at sessions of 4-H clubs,

Iowa women. tooI are enthusiastic over
singing. Members of this Worth County
chorus drive many miles to rehearsals.

parent-teacher, patriotic and community gather-
ings. First rule is: “Sing as often as you can.”
Club members have been active forming choirs in

rural churches.
Not everyone may join the chorus. In a two-

weeks period each year the director and executive
committee of each club test the voices of appli-
cants. If a woman's voice does not measure up to
strict standards, she is firmly but politely told
that the chorus is full.

On the campus at Purdue, Indiana is building
a state music hall even larger than the one in
Rockefeller Center, New York, which will be the
hub of activities of the singing Hoosier women.
When finished, the choruses plan to meet in it
several times a year for massed concerts. Mean-
while. in church and school and county meetings
they are keeping song alive along the Wabash.

“\Ve can afford to be honest with ourselves,
even if we do not seem to be going ahead very
fast. If we take our music as we would any other
recreation, trying to take some active part in it,
trying to arrive at some intelligent appreciation
of a truly great performance or composition, but
never losing sight of the importance of our per—
sonal enjoyment, Music for Fun becomes a prac-
tical possibility. . . . You are the only one who
knows whether you are honestly enjoying music or
not. Let no one deprive you
of that privilege.” Sigmund
Spacfh in Music for F 1m.

 

N000 HOUI‘ Fun

HE RECIPE for noon hour

fun requires the follow-

ing ingredients: a typi—
cal American school, typical
American youth, and the op-
portunity for wholesome, self-directed, self-
chosen activity during the lunch period or noon
day recess.

The school program should be organized so
that all periods of free time, recess, lunch time or
after school hours, become opportunities for
students to participate in the things they like to
do and which are of their own choosing. Self-
directed extra classroom experiences are truly
educational and should be the natural outgrowth
of vitalized classroom eXperience. In turn, the
extra classroom experience should motivate class-
room work. The two types of experience must be
integrated to ensure complete pupil development.

At the present time after school or extracur-
ricular activities, as they are so often called, seem
to be a part of most school programs. The pos-
sibility of organizing extracurricular activities
during the noon hour seems to have been over—
looked by most school administrators.

The noon hour recess has two functions: to
give the student time to obtain proper nourish-
ment and to rest the tired senses and intellect
from the strain of constant attention. An hour at
noon is absolutely essential from a hygienic as
well as physiologic standpoint. From the adminis—
trator’s standpoint, a double noon hour period
may be necessary in order to relieve crowding,
but under no circumstance should this be used for
an excuse to shorten the lunch period to thirty
minutes. A thirty minute lunch period is sufficient
for lunch as such, but another thirty minutes are
absolutely necessary in order that the child may
rest tired faculties. The point to be made is that
the noon period is not
merely time to eat, but
should be regarded as an
essential period of rest and
recuperation.

Scheduling a double per—
iod at noon, that is, a half
hour for lunch and a half
hour of free time, will not

By EDWIN L. HAISLET, Ed.D.

Assistant Professor
Physical Education and Recreation
University of Minnesota

In this article Dr. Haislet presents the
case for noon hour recreation. outlines
the steps which may be taken in develop-
ing a program. and offers a long list of
In an article to be
published in a future issue of the maga-
zine two successful experiments in differ-
ent types of schools will be recorded.

possible activities.

alone assure that the student
returns to class rested' and
refreshed. The fact remains
that the half hour of free
time is usually spent in mere
idleness, “bull” and smoking sessions, gambling,
making noise, causing disturbance, and getting into
trouble. Noon time is delinquent time, a source
of worry to the school administrators, merchants,
police and surrounding neighbors.

The fault lies not with the boy or girl but with
the administrators who do not realize that the
noon time leisure should mean noon time fun. In
terms of refreshment of mind and spirit nothing
is so vitalizing as recreational experiences. Give
the child a chance to do the thing he likes to do;
challenge him with fun and happiness,‘ and the
experience becomes creative, interesting and edu-
cational. Planned noon time fun will bring the
student back to the classroom refreshed and ready
for the job of formal education. In rural and con—
solidated schools where students are taken to and
from schools in buses, the noon hour becomes the
only period of time for the promotion of extra-
curricular activities. In these schools this time
must be used to promote group and social con—
tacts, develop personality traits and bring out
leadership qualities.

Administratively, a noon hour program means
scheduling half the noon hour for lunch, half for
the program. In large schools this involves double
scheduling. A second administrative problem is
the selection of a leader to promote the noon hour
program. Such a person must be one who is will-
ing not only to determine the interests of the
student body but who will organize a program
around such interests.

Facilities

Once the noon hour program is administratively
feasible, the organization of
the program must start.
The lirst step is to conduct
a facility and equipment
survey as the physical basis
of the program. Before a1-
lowing the students to select
the things they would like
to do it is necessary to find

665

666 ‘ NOON HOUR FUN

out what type of program can be conducted. Nat—
urally, this depends on facilities, areas and equip
ment that can be used. Every school has some
type of facility or area that can be used for a
noon hour program. The greater the amount of
facilities, areas and equipment, the wider and
more comprehensive the possible program.

The gymnasium is well adapted for a noon
hour program. Depending on the size, equipment,
and number of game courts, the gymnasium can
be used either as the center for the entire pro-
gram, or as a unit in which to conduct a game or
athletic program as part of a wide comprehensive
plan. The library, class or play rooms can be well
utilized for interest and hobby groups of all kinds.
Halls can be used for low organized games, social
recreation activities, dancing or rhythms, or for a
specialized athletic program such as track, boxing,
wrestling. The auditorium
can be used as a meeting
place for the entire noon
hour group, for discussion
periods, forums, lectures,
talent or amateur shows,
play groups, group singing,
orchestra and band work.
(See page 668 for other
types of activities which
may be sponsored.)

Art rooms and wood—
working shOps should be-
come centers of handcraft interest. The general
science room, greenhouse and surrounding grounds
should be used by nature study groups. The
music room should be the center of all musical
activities, chorus work, bands and orchestras. All
these facilities, or only one of them, can be used
in a noon hour program, depending on what is at

hand, the interests of the students, and the lead—
ership available.

Leadership

The facility survey should be followed by a
leadership survey. There are two approaches to
the leadership problem——administrative or re—

quired leadership, and volunteer or cooperative‘

leadership. Under the first plan the teachers are
reqmred to assist in the noon hour program, the
program being considered a part of the whole

school program. The second approach is through
the solicitation of teachers who are willing to su—

pervise or lead some activity or interest group.
The cooperation of the. Art, Music, Physical Edu—

"Planned noon hour fun is truly educational.
Boys and girls are encouraged to express
themselves in their own ways at their own
rhythms. In such an atmosphere of ioy.
social contacts are multiplied, many friend-
ships are made' optimum physio-mental de-
velopment takes place' and finally, individ-
ual interests find expression through group Name ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ° ‘ ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' "
experience. Boys and girls learn to play to-
gether in an entirely natural relationship,
making it possible for them to accept one
another on a friendly and equal basis."

cation, Botany, General-Science, Speech, English
and Shop teachers is necessary to effect a com-
plete program. The greater the leadership, the
better the possible program.

In many cases the noon hour program will have
to be conducted by a single teacher who will or—
ganize, direct and supervise the whole program.
The success of such a program will have to de—
pend to a great degree upon student leaders.

The Interest Survey

With leadership, facilities and equipment inter-
preted in the light of program possibilities, the next
procedure is to find out what the students would
like to do. This means conducting an interest
survey. This is done by listing in questionnaire
form all activities that can be promoted in the
school and asking the students to check those ac-

tivities in which they want to

participate. The survey
should also find out what
special aptitudes, talents and
leadership abilities are to be
. found in the group. Such a
survey might look like this:

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Phone Number . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Age . . . . . . . . . ..

I would like to take part in the
following activities: (list only
those possible) Place a check
(\/) after activity you like best.

Handicraft

I I I l o I o I

Athletics Music

o u n u o u o a O I a I I D t I l I 0

I I l I I I O I O O l I
I I o o I I I I l l l l
n o I I o I o o I a a a

I o I I I I l n l I I l

Social Activities Nature and Outing Activities Hobbies

I a o I I o o a o a I o o I a o I I I ' 0 U ..

I I n I I I I I a I o a n n I o I I n I a O 0'
I I a o I I n a o o u n n u at

If you have had either special training or a considerable
experience in music, dramatics, nature work, athletics, or
craft work, please indicate below the exact nature of
the experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

O‘IIIIIIIUCOIIIIICIIIIIIICIIII3 u I a o I I n I n n I I a o a a o l l I OI
a a a I u a I u o a u t I I u a o u n u g u u o a g g g u n g u o u u a a o I o o l o I I l I 0 ' ' ‘ "

I I I I I I a I o I I u u I l u I I o l I I l l o I l I l u I I I l O l O t O I o I U l O I I O a O O O.

NOON HOUR FUN 667

Would you be willing to act as a
volunteer helper in the above ac-
tivity? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
\Vhat other activity do you feel you
excel in? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
The following are talented people
whom I believe would 'be willing to
help:

Name

o - I u u I I I n I o I o I o o o O I I o o o o o I o o o o o o 0

Every student in school should
fill out such a form. The ques-
tionnaires are then sorted ac—
cording to interests, with special
aptitudes, talents and leadership
possibilities being listed.

Core interests now become
the basis of program organiza-
tion, the administrative unit. It might seem ad-

visable to make certain that each student become

acquainted with many types of activities by re-
quiring the student to select a new or different
interest group each quarter or term of the school
year. Students should not be allowed to change
from one group to another during the term.
Meetings of each interest group should be sched—
uled. If possible, bring in a specialist or enthusi-
ast for the first meeting in order to motivate and
center interest. At this meeting find out each
person’s special interest in the particular field and
then indicate the possibilities for each; if possible
formulate a program which will allow each indi-
vidual to express his special interest and at the
same time be working on a special group project.
Each interest group should choose its own leader

if possible.

A general meeting of all interest groups should
be scheduled usually once a week. Sometimes the
general meeting can take the form of a party,
sometimes a talent show, a demonstration, a lec-
ture, a debate, a play, or a community sing. It
might be well to assign each group a chanCe to
sponsor a program of its own design.

The program should be, of course, co-recrea—
tional in all 'aspects, with the one exception of
highly organized team games. ‘

The complexity and type of organization is in—

dicated by the number and type of interest groups,
facilities, equipment and leadership.

 

J

Caurtesy WPA, New York City

"Art rooms and woodworking shops should
become centers of handcraft interest"

Some Hints in Administration

The club unit with its own leadership and pro—
gram is an effective administrative plan for most
interest and hobby groups. Sports can be admin—
istered through the formation of leagues, tourna-
ments, contests. The round robin schedule is
preferable to the _ elimination tournament, the
double elimination to the straight elimination tour-
nament; the double elimination and ladder type
to the straight elimination. In games and sports
the foremost objective should be participation for
fun—not championships.

A bulletin board on which are listed the name,
meeting place and membership of the various
groups helps the student to grasP the idea of the
complete program and is an effective method of
getting others into the program. M”eetings,'pro-
grams, special events, demonstrations, schedules
and results of schedules should be posted regu-
larly. The bulletins should be attractive and well
placed. If possible there should be a special place

on the board for each group.
A noon hour council composed of one member

from each interest group can well be formed with
the idea of assisting in the administration of the
entire program, forming policies, and planning
and coordinating activities.

NOON HOUR FUN

Program Possibilities

Acrobatics

Aesthetic Dancing
American Ball
Apparatus

Aquatics

Archery

Athletic Games
Badge Tests
Badminton

Bag Punching
Baseball

Basketball

Bicycling Events
Boating

Bobsledding
Bowling

Box Hockey

Boxing

Broom Hockey
Calisthenics
Canoeing

Captain Ball

Casting

Cage Ball. Center Ball
Coasting

Combatives
Corrective Gym
Cricket

Cross Country Running
Curling

Deck Tennis
Diamond Ball
Diving Contest
Dodge Ball Tournament
End Ball

Fencing Tournament
Field Ball

Field Hockey

Folk Dancing
Football

Free Play

Games

Golf

Gymnastics
Handball

Hand Polo

Hockey, ice and field
Hop-scotch
Horseback Riding
Horseshoes

Ice Boating

Ice Skating

Indian Club Swinging
Jiu Jitsu

Juggung

Junior Olympic Event
Kick Ball

Lacrosse

Singing Games
Folk dance
Clog

Tap

Sports

Life Saving

Long Ball
Marathon Games
Marbles

Marching
Marksmanship
Motorboating
Mountain Climbing

N ewco mb
Paddle Tennis

Physical EHiciency Contest

Pin Ball
Ping—pong
Playground Ball
Pyramids
Punchball
Quoits

Racing
Reducing
Regattas

Relays

Ritiery

Riding
Roller-skating
Rope Skipping
Rowing

Rugby Football
Sailing
ShufHeboard
Skating
Skating Ice Carnival
Skiing

Skeeball
Skeeter Contest
Sleigh Riding
Sliding

Snow Shoes
Soccer

Softball
Speedball
Squash

Stilt Contest
Stunts
Surfboard Riding
Swimming
Target Practice
Tennis
Tetherball
Tobogganing
Touchball
Track and Field
Trapping
Tumbling
Volleyball
Wading Pool
Water Carnival
\Valking and Hiking

Dance

Athletic
Social
Modern

Music Activities

Accordion Club
Bands

Barber Shop Quartet
Choral Club
Choruses
Community Singing
Concerts and Recitals
Drum Corps

Flute Contests

Glee Clubs

Group Piano Lesson
Harmonica Club
Holiday Music
Jews Harp Contest
Kazoo Contest
Kitchen Bands
Mandolin Club
Minstrel Show

Music Club Festivals

Music Evening

Music Memory Contest
Negro Spirituals
Opera Club

Orchestras
Phonograph Concerts

Charades
Comedies
Costume Parade

Debating Club

Radio

Saxophone Band

Singing

Toy Symphony

Trumpet and Bugle Corps
Ukelele Club

Whistling Club

Dramatics

Play Writing and Producing
Plays for Children

Public Lecture Course
Public Speaking Club

Drama Tournament Reading Clubs
Dramatic Games Puppetry

English Classes Recitals

Farces Story Acting
Fantasies Storytelling

Literary Society Stage Club

Literary Clubs Stunt Contest

Little Theater Group Tableaux

Melodramas Tom Thumb Theater
Minstrel Shows Traveling Street Theater
Mock Trials Vaudeville

Oratorical Contest Wandering Storytelling
Pageants Writing Clubs
Pantqmimes Voice Training

Craft Work

Aeroplane Building Mask Making
Art Classes Mechanical Club
Art Exhibit Millinery Club
Art Stone Work Model Boat Making
Balloons—Hot air Modeling

iasket Weaving Needle Work

Bead Work Ornamental Wood and Iron
Block Printing (Soap, Painting

wood, linoleum and Paper Cutting and Pasting
potato) Paper Modeling

Bird House Building Photography

Boat Building Poster Making

Book Making Pottery

Bridge Building Pressing and Mending
Building Clubs Printing

Cabinet Making Pushmobile Building
Clay Modeling Quilting

Cobbling Radio Building

Cork Work Rafiia

Crayon Work Reed Work
Crocheting Rope Work

Costume Making Rug Making
Drafting Sand Modeling
Drawing Scooter Making
Dressmaking Scrap Book

Dyeing Sculpture, wood and stone
Etching Sealing Wax Work
Fancy Work Sewing Club

Flower Work Shelter Building
Furniture Work Shipbuilding

Glider Making Signaling

Hammock Making Sketching
Housewifery Snow Modeling
Interior Decorating Stenciling
Jewelry Making Tie Dyeing

Jig Saw Making Tin Craft

Kiddy Car Making Toy Making

Kite Making Trick Clubs

Knitting Vocational Training
Lamp Shade Making Wax Work

Lanterns Weaving

Leather Work Whittling and Carving
Loom Weaving Contest '
Marionettes Wood Craft

Nature

Astronomy Flower Show
Forestry Museums

Geology Pet Shows

Bird Studies
Trees
Insects
Hiking
Leaves
Field Trips
Gardening

Woodcraft

Camp Activities
Camp Fires
Clam Bakes
Fishing

Gypsy Tribes
Hiking Club
Hunting Club
Jamborees

Lawn Parties

Active Games
Banquets
Billiards
Backgammon
Bean Bag
Candy Pulls
Chess

Camelot
Checkers

Dance Reviews
Dominoes
Dramatic Stunts
Dancing

Fun Roast

Folk Evenings
Games Carnival
Hobo Party

Ice Cream Social
Jack Stones

Bridge Clubs
Camera Clubs
Checkers
Chemistry Club
Chess

Collecting Contest
Doll Club Fashion
Show Dressing Contest
Farming Club
Gardening Clu'bs
Gun Clubs

Hobby Clubs

Academic Classes
Americanization Classes
Baby Show
Backyard Playgrounds
Branch Libraries
Carnival of Games
Citizenship Training
Classes

Clean-Up Campaign
Commercial Club
Community Club
Country Club
Current Club
Demonstrations
Doll Parade and Shows
Economic Club
. Fraternities

First Aid
. Geography

Health Clinics
- Health Clubs
I Kindergarten Activities

NOON HOUR FUN 669

Indian Lore

Collections

C amperaft

Flower Pressing and
Mounting

Nature Games

Nature Excursions

Agriculture Contests

One Day Camp
Outing Clubs
Picnics

Summer Camp
Summer Outings
Trail Making
Walking Clubs
Fire Building
Tracking

Social

Lemonade Party

Mock Track Meet

Magic and Entertainments

Mumbly-peg

Picnics and Steak Frys

Progressive Games Party

Puzzles

Quiet Games

Peanut Hunt

Stunts

Ring Toss

Splash Party

Squares

Shuflcleboard

Singing

Tea Party for Young

Tops

Watermellon Party

Weenie and Marshmallow
Roast

Hobbies

Household Mechanics
Indian Lore
Interpretive Hobby
Jig Saw Puzzle
Lassoing
Pageantry

Reptile Club
Rodeo Club
Science Club
Stamp Collecting
Traveling

Special

Knowledge Club
Know Your Town Club
Language Club
Lectures

Lip Reading Classes
Little Mother Club
Lyceums

Men’s Club ‘
Metropolitan Club
Mothers Club
Naturalization Classes
Naval Club

News Boys Club
Newspaper Contest
Nurseries

Office Club
Olympic Club
Organization Club

Orientation
Oriental Club

Orthopedic Club
Parents Club

Physicians Club Street Playground
Physiotherapy Club Tea Clubs
Play Days Thrift Club
Playground Beautification Trallic Club
Contest Tropical Club
Playground Circus Union Club
Playground Village University Club
Political Club Volunteer Club
Psychology Classes Cooking Classes
Relief Agency Work Etiquette Club
Roof Playgrounds Exhibits
Sand Box Contests Hairdressing
Service Bureau Knot Hole Club
Scrap Bubble Contest Showers
Stuff Doll Contest Telegraphy

Celebrations

Arbor Day Celebrations Hallowe’en Celebrations

Baby Show Historical Pageants
Banquet Ice Carnivals and Festivals
Block Parties July Fourth Celebration
Book Week Labor Day Celebration
Carnivals Lantern Parade

Children’s Pageant Navy Day

China Parties Mardi Gras Parade
Christmas Celebrations Mother-Daughter Dinners
Community Dances Masquerade

Dog Derby New Year’s Celebration
Easter Carol Service Parades

Easter Egg Hunt St. Patrick’s Day
Entertainment Thanksgiving Celebrations
Father-Son Dinners Valentine Celebration
Festivals

“How long will it take adults to learn that the
art of getting along with others, like any other
technique, requires years of practice, years of
seeing others, years of talking with others, and
years of cooperating and sharing experiences.
Young people will meet, and if favorable condi-
tions are not convenient, their social contacts may
be in undesirable circumstances. Mystery and
glamour produced by undue sentimentalism are
often dangerous. Self-control is not learned in
isolation nor by a process of unconscious prohibi-
tive conditioning. It requires understanding on
the’part of adults and opportunities for self-im-
posed responsibility on the part of youth.

“Those who would help young people to reach
a well-adjusted maturity must guide them in this
adolescent period of transition, of conflict, search,
and experimentation. Leaders are needed who
are themselves well adjusted and fully matUre,
who will not Use authority to hamper youth, and
who will lead by example toward better ways of
behaving. Evaluation of youth’s conduct should
be in terms of ‘better’ or ‘not as good as possible,’
rather than an absolute right or wrong. . . . It is
not the academic curriculum but rather the activi-
ties known as ‘extracurricular’ which offer the
richest opportunities for young people of opposite
sexes to meet each other under favorable circum-
stances.”—-—G. M. Gloss, Ph.D., in The Journal of
H with and Physical Education, January 1940.

Are You Planning an Easter Egg Hunt?

ASTER EGG III'NTS are always great fun and
E the children look forward eagerly for the
season which means brightly colored eggs,
bunnies, and Easter baskets. But an Easter egg
hunt holds possibilities for keen disappointment
on the part of children who are not able to gather
the eggs because larger children crowd them out.
Then, too, the fact that many eggs are destroyed
by being stepped on is another disappointing
factor.

The Recreation Department of Sacramento,
California, believes it has found the solution to
these difficulties in a plan described by Elmer
Congdon, Supervisor of Athletics, which was very
successfully put into operation last year.

Twenty thousand cut-outs in the shape of eggs
were made from inexpensive colored mimeograph
paper. These were divided among several areas
on which the hunts were held, and Boy Scouts and
other volunteers with handfuls of cut—outs were
stationed at various points. At a given signal the
cut—outs were thrown into the air, and the hunt
was on! In each area an Easter basket or a large
chocolate bunny was concealed as an incentive to
careful searching, and the child lucky enough to
find a golden egg cut—out received a live bunny.

A similar hunt for younger children was con—
ducted in an enclosed area.

After the hunt was over each child was given a
chocolate egg and two colored eggs. Later races
were held, the winners of which received small
candy chocolate bunnies.

 

More than 3.000 children took part in the
Easter egg hunt held under the auspices of the
San Jose, California, Recreation Department held
at Alum Rock Canyon, and 35,000 people'came
by bus or family car to take part in the celebra—
tion. Many of these were adults who had come
from neighboring cities to watch the hunt and to
enjoy the musical program prepared for them.
Many gathered in family groups to picnic under
the oak and sycamore trees which grow on the
floor of the canyon. '

Off to a flying start soon after one o’clock in'
the afternoon, practically every child in the park
under fifteen years of age joined in the hunt for
the multicolored eggs, particularly the golden
colored prize eggs. The children had previously
been divided into three general age groups—the
first limited to children up to six years of age;

(Continued on page 700)

 

(fin

Courtesy Sacramento Recreation Department

The Place of a Hobby Program

in the

Department of Public Recreation

PRACTICAL and realistic
A treatment of the place

of hobbies in a public recreation prOgram
must take cognizance of the fact that few recrea-
tion departments throughout the country are in a
position financially to expand their programs. The
departments in most cities have been forced, dur-
ing the past ten years of financial strain, to operate
on smaller budgets than before. In cities where
the budget for recreation has not been reduced
there has been an increasing necessity for careful
use of funds. Most of the additional activities
have arisen despite the inability to secure larger
appropriations. \Vith these examples in mind, it
may be observed that a hobby program can be
included in the activities of a public recreation
agency with only slight additional expense and
with very little increased pressure on the admin-
istrative organization.

Just as planning is important to the entire rec-
reation program, so it is with the hobby activity.
If new activities are to be undertaken at a mini—
mum of expense and effort, there must be plan-
ning to coordinate them with the old. It will be
necessary to allocate the new administrative duties
to the proper divisional head. In the Cincinnati
I’ublic Recreation Commission, the hobby pro-
gram is under the Supervisor of Playgrounds. In
this instance, as is often the case, the administra-
tive assignment was given to the person responsi—
ble for its development. Another city, depending
on its organization, may place
the administration of hobbies
under some other divisional
head. In Cleveland the Super—
visor of Girls’ and VVomen’s
Activities administers the
hobby program. Since the or-
ganization structure of pub-
lic recreation departments
will differ in the various
cities, it is impossible to state

By HERBERT M. WEINBERG

This material represents extracts from a
section of a comprehensive dissertation
entitled "The Development of Avocational
Interests in the Program of Public Recre-
ation" submitted by Mr. Weinberg to
the Graduate School of the University of
Cincinnati in partial fulfillment of the
requirements for the degree of Master
of Arts. We regret exceedingly that lack
of space makes it impossible for us to
reproduce the section in its entirety.

dogmatically just where the
administrative responsibility
should lie. It is a problem which should be solved
by the individual departments; location of admin-
istrative responsibility will vary as conditioned by
the organization and its needs.

Scope of the Program

The first consideration of the supervisor of a
hobby program will be its scope. He must famil~
iarize himself with details of the various hobbies
and their local possibilities. Equipment require-
ments, general popularity with the public, and an
evaluation of comparative worth, are some of the
first problems. The hobbies hnally selected will
be determined by such factors as those mentioned,
as well as by general feasibility. which depends
upon availability of funds, space, and adequate
personnel for service as instructors. The fact that
an elaborate program cannot be undertaken at the
outset should not disturb the supervisor. since it
is well to undertake one hobby group at a time on
a small experimental scale. Whether the public
evinces interest in the activity, whether attendance
is regular or sporadic, and whether constructive
work is accomplished by the group, will determine
future plans.

In Cincinnati the program sponsored by the
Recreation Commission began with one hobby
group in 1936. At present it includes the follow—
ing eight groups: model railroad building, model
airplane building (including
gas "models), model boat
building, telescope making,
jewelry making, painting,
drawing and designing, short-
wave radio broadcasting, and
photography. As it appeared
feasible and desirable to in-
clude each new activity, the

program was broadened.

671

672 THE PLACE OF A HOBBY PROGRAM

Providing Space

The problem of providing adequate space for
the hobby activities is one of the controlling fac-
tors in determining the program. The existing
recreational centers should be utilized, of course,
wherever there is suitable space. In cities with
large recreation centers there is usually oppor-
tunity to meet the space need at the outset. More
often, however, the recreation department will
find itself hard-pressed for space in its recreation
centers, for building space, and for funds from
which capital outlays can be made.

One practical solution was found by the Rec-
reation Commission in Cincinnati through utilizing
the second floors of two police stations. In Cleve—
land also, the motorizing of the police force made
it possible to use police stations for recreation
centers. The efficaCy of such use is readily seen
when it is remembered that no rent is charged.
The only extra cost is light and heat, which in
some cases, are also provided without expense to
the recreation program. The example set by the
public recreation agencies in these two cities is
but one practical solution to the. problem of space.
Other possibilities may be found in schools,
churches, women’s clubs, settlement houses, vacant
stores, factories, offices, homes, as well as police
and hre stations. To the pragmatic recreation
supervisor who can visualize methods for utilizing
otherwise unused facilities, the space needs for
hobbies will not be a perplexing problem.

Leadership

The third problem the hobby supervisor must
face is that of personnel. This problem, how-
ever, has been solved in many cities through the
use of VVPA personnel. Since the largest item of
expense in a recreation department is for per-
sonnel, this federal personnel possibility has been
of great financial assistance. In a large metro-
politan city there are many potential hobby leaders
on the WPA rolls, including skilled craftsmen
who are no longer able to hnd private employ—
ment in their trades on account of age. There are
also many young men on WPA rolls who were
merely unfortunate in presenting themselves to
the labor market during a time of economic dis—
tress. These younger men have often learned

hobby skills as boys, and are of great value as
instructors to the hobbyists.

Equipment
The final problem is that of supplying equip-
ment for the hobby groups. Tools and machinery

are usually needed, and these should be provided
by the Recreation Department from its own funds,
when they are available. Such expenditures may
be met the hrst year the hobby program is intro—
duced from the reserve fund which should be
part of the hnancial program of a well-adminis-
tered recreation department. In no case, however,
should an outlay be made for expensive machin—
ery and tools, unless it is found that such equip-
ment is absolutely necessary. In most cases, only
the most simple machinery and tools will be
needed. Even these often run into a large item
of expense. It may be possible that the hobby
group can provide the money for subsequent
equipment from the sale of things made with low-
cost initial tools. This is not merely a possibility;
it has been accomplished by one of the hobby
groups sponsored by the Cincinnati Recreation
Commission, which purchased a mechanical saw
costing $25.00 from the sale of articles which had
already been made by hand tools.

Since the administrative structure of a recrea—
tion department, as well as the facilities of space,
personnel, staff, and nuances all vary in different
municipalities and prevent the application of rigid
rules for‘developing a hobby program, a concrete
illustration from the hobby program of the Cin-
cinnati Recreation Commission is described as an
example for recreation departments without
hobby programs, as well as for comparison with
those departments already furnishing hobby
activities.

The Cincinnati hobby program, it should be
noted. serves both children and adults. An indi-
vidual’s personality, tastes, and habits are formed
in his childhood, and it is at this stage that the
correct uses of leisure time should be introduced.
Skills will be more easily learned at this stage of
development. Avocational interests are important
to adults also, and as one grows older, his leisure
time gradually increases. Important to adults also
is the fact that hobbies are the chief means of
satisfying the restlessness which often comes with
retirement.

In Cincinnati’s Hobby Shops

Many varied activities feature the programs of
children’s hobby groups and clubs meeting weekly
throughout the winter months under the sponsor-
ship of the Cincinnati Public Recreation Com-
mission. A total of three hundred and forty-
seven different groups meet each week, an aver—

age of almost seventy groups daily, Monday
through Saturday.

THE PLACE OF A HOBBY PROGRAM 673

The Recreation Commission provides six hobby
workshops, located in different sections of the city.
Two of these are located on the second floors of
police stations. The activities conducted in one
shop are model railroad and airplane building,
photography, and radio work. From three to six
in the afternoon, the main activity is model air-
plane building for the younger boys. In the eve-
ning the workshop is given over to adults and the
older boys. The chief activity during this period,
for the boys, is airplane building, while the adults
engage in photography, radio, and model railroad
building. One evening of the week the entire
workshop is given over to the model railroad
group. This is a difficult group for which to
provide facilities because of space requirements
for tracks for the miniature railroad, with its
round houseand Yards, all of which must be left
undisturbed between work periods. This problem
has been solved by building a wire enclosure
about the large table on which the tracks are laid.

 

The enclosure is portable and can be removed and
folded when not in use. When the model railroad-
ers are finished for'the evening, the enclosure is
placed around the table and locked so that the
children who use the shop in the afternoons can-
not disturb any of the railroad group’s work. The
model railroad hobby is most interesting; all the
cars and engines, which are exact replicas of the
rolling stock of the large railroads, are built by
the hobby group of railroaders. By constructing
a miniature railroad one becomes familiar with

the Operation of a real system. The hobbyists not

'only make the cars, but lay the tracks, plan the

system, route the cars, and build miniature scen-
ery for the railroad’s background.

The second hobby workshop operates on the
same work schedule for children and adults. Its
main activities are photography and large model
airplane building. Some of the gasoline models
have an eight foot wing-spread. The main activi-

WPA, New Yark Cay

674 THE PLACE OF .4 HOBBY PROGRAM

ties of the children’s hobby groups are photog-
raphy and model boat building.

A third center, in a fieldhouse near one of the
athletic fields operated by the Recreation Com-
mission, provides ample space for building large
model boats and for making telescopes and grind-
ing lenses for evening adult groups.

The fourth center, provided by The Goodwill
Industries, furnishes quarters for amateur short-
wave radio broadcasters. This hobby group had
been operating less than three months when it
received post-card replies from over fifty listeners,
one from Hawaii. The cost to the Recreation
Commission for eight months operation was
$25.00 spent for equipment.

The fifth center, in a downtown building, has
been converted into an art studio for the fine arts
hobbyists. The space is donated, and the Up-keep
and instruction costs are met by the cooperative
effort of women’s clubs and the Recreation Com-
mission. Afternoon activities are engaged in
mainly by women. The studio is also open three
evenings a week, when men have found it con-
venient to engage in fine arts hobbies.

The sixth workshop is located in one of the
public schools, where an adult group meets to
make jewelry. The jewelry is made from inex-
pensive metals and gems, but nevertheless is
attractive and decorative.

The policy of the Recreation'Commission in
supplying materials for the jewelry gI'OLIp has
been to buy at advantageous prices in large quan-
tities and charge the individuals the actual cost of
the material. The cost, of course, depends on the
nature of the particular hobby, and therefore
varies greatly, ranging from a few cents for a
model airplane kit, to five or ten dollars for equip—
ment for model railroad building, gas model air-
planes, and telescope lenses. Then too, it must be
remembered that although each group engages in
a special hobby, each hobbyist within the group
may desire different types of models and lenses.
For this reason it often happens that a large sup-
ply of materials or equipment
cannot be bought at one time.
There is a saving, however, in
knowing exactly where the best
materials can be secured for
the lowest cost. This informa-
tion is usually supplied by the

instructors and more experi-
enced hobbyists.

Other subjects dealt with in the sec-
tion of Mr. Weinberg's thesis having
to do with the hobby program in public
recreation departmentsinclude person-
nelI library and researchI publicity,
and hobby fairs. Unfortunately space
does not permit of our presenting this
interesting and informative material.

Courses in Hobbies

An outstanding innovation of the Cincinnati
hobby program was a course in hobbies included
in the curriculum of the Teachers’ College of
the University of Cincinnati. The class was under
the supervision of the director of the hobby pro—
gram of the Public Recreation Commission and
met one evening per week for two hours, for a
period of one semester. One hour of academic
credit was given to those who enrolled and suc-
cessfully completed the course.

The course consisted of three sessions on pho-
tography, two of which were lectures and one a
laboratory period in which the students developed
and printed their own pictures. The fourth and
fifth sessions were devoted to model airplane
building, during which time the students built two
different types of models. The sixth session was
a lecture and demonstration of telescope making,
and the seventh and eighth sessions were devoted
to collecting stamps. It was during these sessions
that the students were introduced to the many
phases of collecting and heard lectures by several
philatelists, of whom one was the stamp editor of
one of the metropolitan newspapers. Each student
built a model sail boat during the ninth and tenth
sessions on model boat building. The last two
meetings were devoted to the making of a radio
crystal set and to a short—wave broadcast
demonstration. _

The course was well received, having an en—
rollment of approximately twenty-five students
composed mainly of teachers, recreation leaders
and play leaders. Instruction was handled by the
employees of the various activities in the regular
hobby program of the Recreation Commission,
many of whom are under the WPA. It was found

that the offering of such a course answered a

definite need.1

There are two big items of economy in the
Cincinnati program: first, the personnel costs for
instructors are borne by the W-PA, and secondly,
the Recreation Commission has been careful to
secure locations where no rent
must be paid. The only costs
are light and heat, and electri-
city for operation of the ma-
chinery.

It is interesting, for pur-
( C ontz'nucd on page 701)

 

1 "A New Course in Hobbies,” editorial
of Journal of Physical and Health
Education, September, 1934.

What They Say About Recreation

11 III-1 PARK SPIRIT must be American culture;
Tit is the spirit of bigness and spaciousness as
opposed to littleness and narrow minded-
ness, providing'vistas for a war-torn world to see
life that is good. It builds democracy for men
who would be free; it creates beauty where there
is ugliness; restores hope where there is despair.
. . . The park spirit is universal. It is simplicity,
genuineness, sincerity. It challen‘ges America’s
over-emphasis en material values.”—Raymond
Morrison in Journal of the National Education
Association.

“People need recreation, not because they are
poor or rich, young or old, but because they are
people. A democratic leisure-time program is one
intended for all of us. on the theory that the best
is none too good for the American people.”—

Eduard C. Lindeman.

“Important as is work, it is only one of the
great activities of life in which most normal in—
dividuals engage. The success of ‘any individual
in leading a happy, well—adjusted life depends on
his ability to develop satisfactory relationships
and activities not only in gainful employment but
in his leisure time as well; not only among his fel-
low workers but also in the family and commu-
nity. Life cannot be separated into sharply divided
compartments.”—From The Bulletin of the Na-
tional Association of Secondary School Principals.

“ ‘Happiness to be got must be forgot’ is an old
hedonistic saying. To go deliberately seeking art
values in painting, literature, any medium, is to
defeat itself. One cannot fruitfully make a busi-
ness of friendships. The influences that slowly
build up liking are subtly accumulative; they must
be permitted to steal upon us before we are aware.
Besides, art is enjoyment, one’s personal pleasure.
It is one’s fun, to put it indecorously; it is the joy
of living as different from the struggle to keep
alive. . . . Art was made for man.”-——Hughes

M earns.

“Timber and minerals, grass and forage, game
and water are tangible forest crops. Definite

values can be put on them. Certain values of rec-
reation defy price analyses. But they are real
values just the same, for they help change for the
better the spirit of a country’s people.”—From
Report of the Chief of the Forest Service.

“Always there is the danger of learning to
speak too much in terms of recreation in the mass
and of neglecting the individual human values that
manage to assert themselves in the face of inade-
quate floor space and playground facilities. There
is a way of being seriously unjust to the little
people by assuming that without our intervention
they are lost.”——New York Times.

“Nothing is more important for maintaining a
balanced, happy life than to have all of one’s
abilities functioning. \Vith the high degree of
specialization in most vocations, it becomes in-
creasingly necessary to seek expression through
hobbies and avocations if some valuable capacities
are not to atrophy and if the individual is not to
feel stifled.”—Katherine Whiteside Taylor. ,

“The total recreation program of a community
should be community-administered ; that is, it
should be a coordinated program to which all
agencies can make a contribution. It is time we
eliminated the idea that the magnitude of a pro-
grain is any index of success. It is time we con—
sider the people to be served rather than the pro-
gram of an agency or the protection of vested
interests.”—Alon:o G. Grace, Commi5sioner of
Education, State of Connecticut.

“In reinterpreting the three R’s through the
enrichment program the arts will take a conspicu—
ous place. They are essentials. No experiences
which help us to identify and to appreciate love-
liness in life, lead toward social and emotional
poise, have such large recreational and vocational
possibilities, can be looked upon as frills. No
program which helps to build the character of a
person can be classed as unnecessary.”—Agnes
Samuelson, Iowa State Teachers Association.

675

The Metamorphosis of a Milk Cart

3’
o

 

Com-(my National Youth Administration, New York

0 YOU REMEMBER the high—slung milk wagon
D that used to come swaying down the street
to your door in the wake of faithful Dob-
bin? Do you remember how, as the old horse
turned in toward the curb and came to a stop, the.
milkman would catapault out of the sliding side
door and down the steps with his dripping dipper
and two shiny cans—the large can for milk and the
small one for cream; and how Dobbin would'doze
peacefully until he heard his master running back
around the corner of the house, when he would
snatch a hasty bite of grass as he moved off un-
guided by the hanging reins to wend his leisurely
way, cloppity-clop, to the next stop, leaving the
driver to make a flying leap into the cart as it
jogged along?

Dobbin has probably long since gone the way
of all flesh, but apparently some of the wagons are
still in existence. At least Mrs. E. H. Bunce,
Superintendent of the Children’s Home in Water-
town, New York, saw several relics of the pre-
motorized, pre-sterilized era standing out back of
the Hygienic Dairy, and forthwith had a bright
idea. Her children needed a playhouse; why
couldn’t a milk cart be made to serve the purpose?
So she talked the matter over with the owner of

676

By

RUTH SHERBURNE
State Supervisor of Demonstrations
National Youth Administration
New York State

the dairy, and the next day one
of the dilapidated wagons stood
at the back of the Home.

Mrs. Bunce looked it over with
a critical eye. Of course, it could
be used just as it stood, but if
only those wheels were off and it
were fixed up a bit! Whereupon
she telephoned Mr. Russell B.
O’Reilly, Jefferson County Super-
visor of the New York State Na-
tional Youth Administration,
asking him to come out to talk
with her a bit; she had a problem on her hands
that she thOught the boys at the NYA work cen-
ter in Watertown could help her solve. Mr.
O’Reilly came, saw the wagon and caught the idea.
The next day it was towed to the work center,
where a group of NYA boys, under the direction
of John O. Stamp, the foreman, set to work with
enthusiasm. Off came the wheels, and the wagon
body was put on a foundation. When a front
porch and window boxes were added, and finally
the structure was treated inside and out to liberal
coats of' gay paint, and an awning hung over the
windows and doorway, the metamorphosis of the
old wagon was complete. Here stood a quaint
little playhouse looking; as if it belonged in a
picture book, all ready to gladden the hearts of
any grOup of children. Once more the old cart—
now riding in pride high on a truck—-was driven
through the streets of Watertown it had traveled
so many years in humbler guise to rest at last in
the playground of the Children’s Home.

The children were delighted with it and set to
work happily making curtains for the windows,
hanging pictures on the walls, and arranging and
rearranging the small tables and chairs. In fact,
the house was so popular that Mrs. Bunce decided

THE METAMORPHOSIS OF A MILK CART 677

she must have .another. So Mr. O’Reilly again
talked with the owner of the dairy, this time beg-
ging four wagons, two of which, when remodeled,
went to Mrs. Bunce for her Children’s Home, and
two to St. Patrick’s Orphanage. There are about
seventy-live children in each of these institutions,
and reports from both superintendents indicate
that the youngsters have taken the greatest pride
in keeping the houses neat and in order, as good
housekeepers should.

The completed playhouses are 10’ x 7’ x 4%’,
so constructed that they can be left out of doors
the year ’round, and were remodeled at a total
cost of $8.00 per wagon.

Undoubtedly there are some antiquated milk
carts or other old wagons stored somewhere in
every town that the owners will be glad to give to
the playgrounds, just to get them out of the way.
Lacking an NYA work center in the community,
NYA boys on a. special project or~ even the older
boys on the playground can fix them up. Either
Mr. O’Reilly or Mr. Stamp, who may be ad-
dressed in care of the National Youth Adminis-
tration, Watertown, New York, will be glad to
furnish specific information as to just what ma-
terials are needed.

Another interesting project, this time reported
by the Extension Service of the United States De-
partment of Agriculture, was the transformation
of a box car into a 4-H club
house annex at Camp Clinton,
Indiana. The car, donated by the
Nickle Plate Railroad, was taken
to the camp grounds where it was
set up on a concrete foundation
and concrete blocks.

Both side doors were screened
and screen doors were installed.
Porches were built. over both
doors with eave troughs for each.
Three windows with overhang-
ing protection from sun and rain
and serving windows were in-
stalled in each side of the annex.

The playhouses at Watertown. when
set up and furnished. proved all
any child could possibly wish for!

If your funds for equipment are low—and
whose aren't—why not try the plan sug-
gested in this article? From all parts
of the country come reports testifying
to the resourcefulness and ingenuity of
groups everywhere in evolving needed
equipment for their recreation programs.

Each window on the two main side porches was
valanced, giving the annex an attractive, cozy
appearance.

The renovated box car was painted green on
the outside and White on the inside. So irregular
was the inside of the car that painting had to be
done with a borrowed spray pump. Plumbers
who were on the sponsor list laid a water line.
Other sponsors in paint, lumber, and implement
companies aided by material price reductions. The
hnal cost of the new annex was $135.00, which
included $32. 50 for hauling the car to its location
and installing it upon the concrete foundation.

A new kitchen was installed in the annex and
placed in charge of club members and leaders.
Electric stoves and an ice box were installed. The
other end of the annex was used as storage space
for equipment and as a sub-office for the camp
director.

 

Courtesy National Youth Administration, New York

 

678

America's Typical Boy and Girl ,

sculptor, who for many years was director of the Department of Physical

Education at the University of Pennsylvania, decided to design a column or
herma which would combine the masks of two students to represent the best types
found in our American colleges for men and women—“the hnished product,” as Dr.
McKenzie expressed it, “of the great movement for physical education, sports, and
outdoor life which is one of the outstanding features of our national life of the
past forty years.”

A SHORT TIME before his death in April 1938, R. Tait McKenzie, distinguished

In the sculptured “column of youth” Dr. McKenzie attempted to answer the ques—
tions: What does the American college girl look like? What kind of boy would we
consider as representative of our American college and university?

Dr. McKenzie’s composite American girl which he evolved as the result of his
study has a forehead broad and rather square. The eyebrows are not highly arched ;
her nose is short and inclined to tip up; the lips are full but not heavy; the chin is
prominent and broad rather than pointed. The face is not long but wide, the whole
head belonging to the round skulled rather than the long skulled category. The
typical boy is tall, broad shouldered, thin hipped; his face shows a low, square
forehead, very straight eyebrows, blunt nose, high check bones, and square jaw.

Dr. McKenzie will be remembered
as designer of the badge worn by
many thousands of boys who have
passed the tests issued by the -
National Recreation Association

ls Archery a Safe Club Program?

ever said to you, “1

wish we could have
archery in our club program
but it appears too hazard—
ous P” Isn’t he really saying,
“If we are to have archery
as one of our club activities,
how can the program be con-
ducted safely?”

Many developments have
occurred in archery since
DeFeltra1 introduced its use
in his physical education pro—
gram in I 378. Progress has been slow, to be sure,
but available figures do not in any way indicate
that accidents have caused this somewhat retarded
growth. Lloyd, Eastwood, and Deaver 2 point out
that archery compares very favorably with golf
and tennis in the low incidence column. Research
shows that these three activities, with others, have
a distinctly low accident record, and that the se—
verity of these relatively few occurences is slight.

Archery is an ideal activity for indoor club use.
For secondary school purposes few clubs provide
more opportunities for real educational experi-
ences. Its fascination lies not alone in shooting.
Its avenues of exploration and pleasure are many.
As an art teacher said the other day, “At last I
have found one way to interest my pupils in Diana
of Versailles, the huntress.” Archery often adds
interest and enthusiasm to academic and vocational
subjects where it blends nicely with the romance
and meaningfulness of their content. A line ex-
ample in. this connection is an editorial, “Is Arch-
ery Safe?” which appeared in the semi-annual
edition of a recent school publication. The edi-
torial was an outcome of work in an English class.

I IAS YOUR school principal

During the past five years
the demand for archery has
been clearly in evidence by
its increased use in universi-
ties, colleges, and teacher

 

1Raymond A. Kent, Higher Educa-
tion in America. Boston: Ginn and
Company, 1930. p 565.

2Frank S. Lloyd, George G. Deaver,
Floyd R. Eastwood, Safety m Ath-
letics. Philadelphia: W. B. Saun-
ders Company, 1936. pp 104-107.

By WILLIAM M. GRIMSHAW

Center for Safety Education
New York University

Because of the increased need
for training of leadership in
a field showing evidence aF
rapidly growing popularity,
this article is dedicated to
"making sate fun safer"

The Center for Safety Education is is-
suing at nominal cost’much helpful mim-
eographed material on safety education.
The CenterI of which Dr. Herbert Stack
is DirectorI is preparing a series of tests
which will be available during the spring
of I940. Additional information may
be secured from the Center. 20 Wash-
ington Square, NorthI New York City.

training institutions. The
popularity of archery is
growing steadily in camps,
playgrounds. and schools even
though it is handicapped by
incompetent leadership, in-
adequate facilities, and faulty
procedures. From this evi—
dence it appears certain that
archery has reached a stage
of permanency; that its
growth will continue; and
that its place as an integral
part of the physical education
program in schools is not just a passing fancy.

How can a program of archery be conducted
safely in secondary schools? What are some of
the underlying principles of safety in a construc-
tive indoor archery club program?

Leadership

Probably no other single factor has had more
to do with retarding the progress of archery in the
secondary school program than has incompetent
leadership. Besides the usual prerequisites of a
good sponsor, it should be required that the club
activity be a hobby or field of special interest to
the sponsor. It is not in the least unusual to find
many club leaders or advisers laboring away in
club work that has no special appeal to them. The
club activity under such circumstances seldom be—
comes a real constructive program full of rich
educational experiences. The sponsor who has an
appreciation of values in club activities, who is
expertly prepared in the theoretical and practical
aspects of archery, who is fully acquainted with
the responsibilities involved, can be exPected to
promote and direct a successful archery program.

Accidents are not always
predictable but in many cases
are preventable. Qualified
leadership, careful supervi-
sion, and good management
attribute to more joy and less
grief. Like a good automobile
driver who quickly diagnoses
a serious traffic situation, the

679

($80 15 ARCHERY A SAFE CLUB PROGRAIIJ?

 

Good equipment. ample space. and proper space
eliminate many accidents on the shooting range

archery club sponsor must be able to recognize
instantly any possible danger and see that proper
adjustments are made to insure safety. To be
sure, every member of the club should appreciate
safety hazards as they arise and should see that
their corrections are made. This latter takes time
and requires constant teaching and supervising.

Principles

The club sponsor should be selected for his
special fitness in the field.

It is advantageous to the best interests of club
members that the sponsor have an appreciation of
safety and the general purpose of school club
programs. ,

The sponsor and his assistants should be able

to recognize safety hazards and know their
prevention.

It is desirable that the adviser remain with the

club during activ-
ity on the range.

Assistant lead-
ers should be spe-
cially trained by
the sponsor to
cope with situa-
tions peculiar to
the local condi-
tions.

Archery clubs
should not be or-
ganized unless
there is trained

leadership av ail-
able.

Membership

From the stand-
point of safety the
selection of pupils
for the archery

carefully and sys-
tematically. N 0t
every one who de-
sires to become a
member will nec-
essarily make a
good member. At
least every pro-
spective candidate
should satisfy certain minimum standards of selec-
tion before given serious consideration for mem-
bership. ‘

First, the responsible type of individual is
looked for. After club choices have been made by
the student body, a list of all those pupils indicat-
ing archery as their choice is made through the
principal’s office. Individual studies of this group
through the personal record file, by talks with
home-room teachers, and through interviews with
the pupils themselves will reveal much of the in-
formation desired concerning the student’s re-
sponsibleness.

Secondly, age grouping is used in further de-
termining the selection of candidates. As in many
other phases of physical education, this technic is
found very desirable from the safety viewpoint.
The additional technic of height measurement
is also important. This is especially true when the

club does not afford a variety of arrows lengths
and bow poundage.

club must be made-

—_~.. .— —._.

 

15 ARCHERY A SAFE CLUB PROGRAM? 681

Thirdly, a testing program may be used in the
tinaly analysis of selection. Skill tests and infor—
mation tests can be given outside of the regular
club period. These may be followed by a short
series of instruction and .then each candidate
tested again.

The following testing program has been found
useful:

Archery Skill Test

Demonstrate stringing bow.

Take proper position on shooting line.

Show method used'in warming up bow.
Indicate points of inspection before shooting.
Demonstrate nocking bow.

Pull bowstring to full draw and release.
Explain aiming methods.

Show proper technic in retrieving arrows.
Demonstrate target shooting.

Show possession of an arm guard and finger tabs.

Archery Information Test
(True or False)

T F I. Archery is the most dangerous recreational
activity.

T F 2. Broadhead
arrows are gen—
erally used for
indoor target
practice.

T F 3. It is a good
rule to use the
same bow regu-
larly.

TF4. A person
Should always
remove his
glasses when
shooting.

TF5. W h e n
shooting both
feet should be
parallel to the
shooting line.

T F 6. Linen bow—
strings are
more durable
than cotton
bowstrings.

T F 7. Beeswax is
a liquid used to
preserve bows.

T F 8. Archers should stand more than two feet
apart on shooting line.

T F 9. Bows kept in heated rooms do not need
“warming up” before using.

T F 10. A lacerated thumb may be caused by a
loose feather.

. T F II. The loop end of the bowstring is at the

upper limb of the bow.

TF 12. Bows will last longer if used frequently
- with bottom limb up.

TF I3. The flat type of bow is Considered in-
ferior to the “stacked” type.

T F14. Archers should always pull their own
arrows from the target.

T F I 5.. Arrows that are too short are hazardous.

Principles

Interested pupils should have an opportunity to
express their desire to have a club organized or
to be considered for membership where the pro-
gram is already promoted.

While one student pulls the arrows. another re-
cords the scores. and two retrieve stray arrows

 

682 IS ARCHERY A SAFE CLUB PROGRAM?

First consideration for club membership should
be given to responsible boys and girls of approxi-
mater the same age level, who manifest common
interests and demonstrate like abilities in archery.

Personal records, interviews, and testing de—
vices serve admirably in the selection of new
members.

Prospective members should receive practical
and theoretical instruction before shooting on. the
range in the regular club period.

Size of Club

In determining the size of an indoor archery
club consideration must be given such essentials
as space, facilities, equipment, safety, and the
nature of the activity. The "gymnasium is usually
best adapted to the purposes of the indoor range.
There must. be ample space in order that over-
crowding may be entirely
eliminated. Overcrowding in
itself is a safety hazard. It
lends itself to interference,
confusion, and poor morale.
Especially on the shooting
line there should be ample
room for freedom of move-
ment. No less than four
feet between archers should
be the rule. A membership
of twenty-four boys and

group where sufficient
equipment and a minimum
floor space of 52 feet wide
and 72 feet long are provided.

Principles

The size of the club should be determined by
its objectives, its available space and equipment,
and leadership.

The club should be large enough to be stimu-
lating and yet small enough to encourage con-
stant, active, and safe participation.

There should be no overcrowding at any time.

From the point of view of safety, sixteen to
twenty-four members should be the maximum
enrollment under ordinary circumstances.

Equipment
Careful selection and frequent inspection of
equipment and archery tackle are safeguards
against accidents and injuries. Reliable informa-
tion regarding the extent of accidents and in-

"Safety in archery is not merely a method.
a convenient organizational plan or proced-
ure: it is a real educational experience.
The archery club represents a “small organ-
ized community where boys and girls work
and play together. Here they learn to share
responsibilities. appreciate orderly conduct
in a refined recreation. and live together
in a situation which demands conscious
effort toward respect for property. and
sane. safe living. The club presents abun-
dant opportunities for leadership. self-reli-
girls is a workable sized anceu crallsmaMl‘lP-
fun and adventure. Through these media
safety is taught. experienced and lived.''

juries due to faulty equipment is difficult to obtain.
From personal observation and experience, how—
ever, it would seem that a large percentage of in—
jurious accidents are caused by inferior or faulty
materials. Such conditions are in most cases pre-
ventable with better care and better technics.
Good natural and artificial lighting is necessary.
\Vall fixtures, including clocks, passing bells, tele-
phones. fire alarms, open ventilators, and door-
ways, call for protection. Preferably, these should
not be at the target end of the range. The ceiling
should be high and free from suspending appara-
tus that might interfere with the flight of arrows.
The sponsor and his assistants should be expertly
acquainted with equipment hazards, their cause
and prevention. Members of the club should be
familiar with these as well.

Some insight into the extent of the responsi—
bilities of safety involving
the use and care of facilities
and equipment is shown in
the paragraphs following.
The number of situations
where possible accidents
may occur are numerous. It
is the responsibility of the
sponsor to see that proper
safety controls are provided.

Equipment, facilities, and
tackle for a club of twenty—
four members:

Floor space with mini—
mum dimensions of 52 feet
wide by 72 feet long.

Arrow—proof backstop at least ten feet high and
extending fully across the floor.

coordinated skills.

A system of pulleys and ropes for raising back-
stops into position.

Three regulation targets spaced equally apart
twenty yards from the shooting line. Iron pins at
the bottom of the target stand set into holes bored
in the floor to prevent slipping.

Twelve selected lemonwood bows varying from
20 to 26 pounds pull.

Six dozen selected white birch dowel arrows with
at least three dozen more in reserve. Arrows
should be made in four different crests (colors)
since four persons use a target at one time.

Twelve combination bow racks and quivers
placed on shooting line.

Twelve chairs placed in back of shooting line
for pupils waiting turn.

IS ARCHERY A SAFE CLUB PROGRAM? 683

Extra chairs in safe locations for club sponsor
and visitors.

Bow racks for storing bows.

Arrow racks for storing arrows.

Arm protectors and finger tabs for all members.

Individual score cards and clipboards for each
target.

Additional equipment and supplies for replace—
ments and repairs.

Principles
Equipment should be selected and cared for

Constant inspection should be made by mem-
bers themselves during shooting period.

All hazardous situations should be removed.

Equipment and tackle such as arm protectors.
finger tabs, bows, and arrows should be assigned
to pupils according to their special needs.

The following table cites examples or situations
where accidents may occur. These situations may
be improved ui‘ entirely eliminated through proper
safety procedures and controls. The table indi-
cates actual situations, possible results, and sug-
gested safety controls to aid in reducing these

under careful supervision.

hazards.

 

Situation

Possible Result

Safety Control

 

Equipment ' .
Target stand out of posrtion.
Bow too strong.

Cracked or splintered bow.
Bows stored in heated places.

Bows left on floor after shooting. .

Shooting broken arrows.

Arrows left lying flat or grouped
together.

Frayed or worn bowstring.

Shooting without arm protector.

Organization' .
Overcrowding on shoot1ng line.

Open doorways and entrances
behind or near backstop.
Putting up backstop.

Members waiting turn to shoot.

Range captain uses advisor’s
whistle.

Left hand and right hand archers
facing each other while shoot—
ing on range.

Members unable to find pr0per
bows.

Drawing bow 'before all members
return to the shooting line.

\Valking forward as soon as own
arrows are shot.

Two or more archers pulling

arrows from target at same time.
Technique

Shooting with glasses.

Shooting with ornaments on
personal dress. . .

Wrong stance on shooting line. _

Shooting without finger protectlon.

Bows used before “warming up.”

Stringing bow improperly.

Shooting bow with lower limb up.

Overdrawing arrow.

Broken arrows. Damaged target.

Strained muscles and ligaments in
arm, back, and shoulders.

Body injury.

Bows become dry- and brittle causing
breakage.

Broken bows. Falls.

Lacerated hand or forearm.

Feathers damaged or loosened, caus-
ing lacerations of thumb and hand.
Broken bow. Head and face injuries.

Bruised forearm.

Confusion, disorder, body injury.

‘ Serious accident 'by flying arrows.

Body injury.
Interference with those shooting.
Transfer of cold infection.

Head and face injuries.

Muscular strain. Breakage of
equipment.
I
Arrow loosed unintentionally.

Individual is struck by flying arrow
from another bow.

Face and head injuries.
Damaged target face.

Released bowstring may throw off
glasses. .
Torn clothing. Contusron of chest.

Interference.

Blistered finger tips.
Broken bow.

Broken bow. Bruised face.
Pinched fingers.
Broken bow. Faulty aiming.

Broken arrow. Lacerations aboUt face
and arm. Injury to others.

 

Anchor target stand to floor.
Select bow to meet individual needs.

Inspect bows regularly.
Store bows in cool place.

Use bow rack.
Inspect before using.

- Keep arrows in quiver.

Use only bowstrings in good repair.
Use arm protector.

Correct arm position.

Allow four feet between archers.

Four archers on one target.

Lock all doors. Place safety
posters outside doors.

Stand away from pulley blocks
and wall fixtures.

Provide seats in safe location.
Qmet when shooting.
Captain should use own whistle.

Archers should stand so they do
not face each other.

Each members given range number.
Use only equipment with corre-
sponding number. ‘

Range should be clear.

All archers should await the signal
of the range captain before walk-
ing forward to targets.

One member should be designated
to pull arrows; one menher to
record scores; two to retrieve
stray arrows.

Change anchorage.
Wear plain clothing.

Shoot with feet parallel to line.

Use tab or glove.

Make preliminary drawing with bow,
slight at first. and gradually in-
creasing to full draw.

String bow only after having had
instruction.

Make note that bow is in proper
position for shooting.

Shoot only arrows of proper length.'

(Continued on page 702)

 

One More Step Forward

FTER WORKING for more
A than two years to com-
plete their project, the
citizens of North Alton, in
Alton, Illinois, officially opened
a lighted playground for pub-
lic use on May 15, 1939. At

the same time three similar
lighted areas in Alton were
dedicated, making a total of
four such playgrounds for this city of 30,000

population.
The North Side Playground is the result of

many meetings and a great deal of hard work.
The idea originated at a church brotherhood meet-
ing in the early spring of 1937, and immediately
after tentative suggestions had been offered, the
North Side Playground Association and the North

Side Auxiliary were organized. The search for a
playground site then began. After visiting six
sites, bids were received. Following considerable
investigation and deliberation, the committee rec-
ommended a tract of ground about three blocks
from their present playground. The area con-
sisted of 4.99 acres and was located in the very
center of the district to be served by the new
agency. Larger than any other city playground,
the acreage was suitably located in regards to traf-
nc and population. There was a deep valley run-
ning through the land, however, and this valley
would have to be tiled and filled with soil graded
from the hills. The magnitude of the task did not
frighten the North Side enthusiasts, for they had
seen other city playgrounds develop from worse
sites than this one.

Everyone Helped !

The boosters started a money-raising campaign
and secured the purchase price of $1,700 entirely
in their own section of the city and all by cash
donations. The land was deeded to the city and a
Works Progress Administration project was filed.
While waiting for the project to be approved,
workers cleared the land and purchased about
three hundred locust fence.posts at fifteen cents
apiece. The project was approved, and later had
to be reapproved, as the federal appropriation of
$40,000 was used almost entirely for grading.
The City Council voted six hundred dollars for

684

By RUSSELL. J. FOVAL
Superintendent of Recreation
Altonl Illinois

Aton's fourth playground
is a demonstration of what
hard work plus community
cooperation can accomplish

tile, and the Recreation Com-
mission gave about a thousand
dollars. The North Side group
later contributed an additional
five hundred dollars for lights,
water lines, and such neces-
sities.

. Lighting poles were pur-
chased from the Shell Petro-
leum Corporation at scrap iron
prices: $49.50 for six 48—foot poles made of four-_
and six-inch pipe. A member of the North Side
Club who is a welder by profession donated his
equipment, and other welders in the club as-
sembled the poles. They welded the four-inch pipe
into the six-inch pipe, put steps every two feet
starting ten feet from the ground, and welded the
cross-arms on each pole. The poles were erected
through the same cooperation of North Siders.
One member owned a large flat truck. Aided by
other volunteers, he erected a boom on the bed,
called a local garage for a wrecker, and set the
poles in the holes in about two hours’ time.

The Kiwanis Club purchased ten flood lights
and the North Side group another four. The ap—
proach of opening day found the light company
crew installing the transformer and setting sev-
eral lead-in poles. The official working day for

'the crew ended at four o’clock in the afternoon,

and somehow-the men sent by the light company
managed to complete their day’s work exactly at'
that time. But then the entire crew started to
work as volunteers for the North Side. In less
than two hours, they had wires strung, lights
erected, the switch hooked up, and the lights
turned on.

This is Alton’s fourth lighted playground.
These areas are more than athletic helds, for the
modern playground equipment has been installed
with sections for children of all ages, and a regu—
lar playground program is carried on from 9:00
in the morning until 9 :30 at night each week day.
All of these playgrounds were obtained and im-
proved in the same manner. Neighborhood inter-
est was there; the entire city was called on at
times for volunteer labor and money, and very
seldom was a refusal reported. We feel that we
have had outstanding assistance and cooperation
from everyone in the city in the development of
needed playground areas in Alton.

Housing and Recreation Cooperation Effective

Some outstanding recreation devel-
opments-will be the end result of
cooperative planning in the low—
rent housing projects in Pittsburgh

ECREATION is finding new problems and un-
R precedented opportunities for developing
needed services in conjunction with new
public, low-rent housing projects. Decent shelter
is not the sole aim of the housing program. It is
becoming widely recognized that normal commu-
nity services designed to meet the basic human
needs of health, education, security, and recrea-
tion, in addition to shelter, are the goal of the
well-planned urban neighborhood. Facilities and
program for these varied services must be well
planned and well integrated. Those of us long
engaged in these older related services now have
a new medium for attacking the problems of
social planning in an orderly coordinated fashion.
Housing authorities are thinking of recreation
in much the same terms as we are. They are
thinking of recreation facilities and leadership for
the whole neighborhood including both the project
and the surrounding area. That means recreation
is not a housing function, but the job of the ap-
propriate local public agencies, wherever these
exist. Housers do have an obligation to plan and
operate the projects in such a way that the rec-
reation program may be conducted efficiently.
That means that housing and recreation officials,
along with officials of other community service
agencies, should establish a working relationship
at the moment the project is first conceived, and
should be in constant consultation all through the
planning, construction, and operation of the
project.

The fruit of this type of working relationship
and some of the possibilities involved are illus-
trated by the cooperative planning between recre-
ation, education, health, welfare and housing agen-
cies in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Steps Taken

Late in 1937 the Pittsburgh Housing Authority
started negotiations with the United States Hous-
ing Authority to secure a Federal loan for slum

In

Pittsburgh

By LOUIS C. SCHROEDER
Superintendent. Bureau of Recreation
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

clearance and low-rent housing. After President
Roosevelt had approved the loan application, work
began in earnest on demolition of 3,053 substand-
ard dwellings occupied by white and Negro
families in blighted areas, and construction of
3,053 low-rent dwelling units was started. The
cost of the projects was estimated to exceed
$18,000,000. .Approximately 12,500 people will be
rehoused in modern row houses and apartments
located on the 180 acres of project land connected
with twenty more acres of city playgrounds. Rents
will average $4.86 per room per month, including
utilities. Consequently, families from the lowest
inc0me third of the city will compose the project
population.

This tremendous demolition and building pro—
gram offered an opportunity to replan community
facilities for large sections of the city in well in-
tegrated relationship to housing. The time to be-
gin such planning is when the housing organiza-
tion is first established. The personnel selected
and procedures established at that stage determine
to a large degree the possibilities of success of
the cooperative planning venture.

In the first place, the Pittsburgh Housing Au-
thority was organized on a basis conducive to a
sound consideration of recreation and other com-
munity needs.

George E. Evans, City Councilman and Chair-
man of the Council’s Committee in charge of Park
and Recreation Bureaus, was selected as chair-
man of the Housing Authority, which is the
legally constituted local public housing body. Dr.
B. J. Hovde, Administrator for the Authority,
was formerly Director of Public Welfare for the
City of Pittsburgh. Furthermore, oflicials and

685

(’86 HOUSING AND RECREATION COOPERATION

 

technicians of the City
Planning Commission
who plan city recreation
facilities also serve the
Authority. Thus, those
who determine and exe—
cute the policies are well
versed in recreation plan—
ning.

In addition to the experts directing the housing
program, a special advisory group was formed to
study further the recreation needs and possibili-
ties of the project in relation to the community
and to make recommendations to the Housing
Authority. This special committee brought to-
gether the major local agencies concerned with
the provision of such community services as rec-
reation, education, library, welfare, and health, by
including representatives from (1) Regional Plan-
ning Commission, (2) City Planning Commission,
(3) Board of Education, (4) schools in the
neighborhood, (5) City Council, (6) Bureau of
Recreation, (7) Conference of Catholic Charities,
(8) Bureau of Parks, (9) Soho Community
House, (10) Soho Neighborhood House, (11)
Soho Board, (12) Urban League, (13) Carnegie
Library, (14) Carnegie Institute of Technology,
(15) Federation of Social Agencies, (16) Jewish
Social Service Bureau, (17) Pittsburgh Housing

A View to the northwest of the tilled-in Soho

Valley where a new recreation area is under con-
struction to take the place of the old Kennard
Playground. At the extreme left is the junior
playground. and at the right a part of the major
recreation center for older boys and girls and
adults. On top of the tar hill will be seen the
units of Terrace Village Apartments being built.

Association, (18) The
Irene Kaufmann Settle-
ment House, and (19)
Pittsburgh Housing Au-
thority.

The Advisory Com—
mittee met a number of
times during the planning
and construction stages,
of the development to study the recreation needs
of the neighborhoods affected by the projects and
subsequently to make recommendations to the
Housing Authority and other interested public
and private agencies, such as the School Board
and Bureau of Recreation.

The United States Housing Authority gave as-
sistance in the determination of needs for com-
munity services, in the negotiations with vafious
local agencies, in the planning of community
space, and in the preparations for operation of
that space. At the request of the Pittsburgh
Housing Authority, Howard L. \Vhite, Assistant
Chief of Tenant Relations, and Daniel U. Kiley,
Associate Town Planning Architect, came from
Washington to render these services.

Such was the organization and personnel of the
housing staff and advisory groups concerned with
the planning for community services. All this,
coupled with the spirit of cooperation with other

HOUSING AND RECREATION COOPERATION 687

agencies, led to the sound planning which fol—
lowed.

Achievements in Recreation Planning

Let us focus our attention now on a review of
the achievements of these planners as applied
specifically to recreation.

Recreation planning came into the picture in
the early stages of choosing the sites. Coopera-
tion between the Pittsburgh Housing Authority
and the Bureaus of Recreation and of Parks,
which had just received a two million dollar bond
issue for new space and equipment, resulted in
the' joint purchase and planning of two large
areas for project and playground development.

The smaller of the two sites is located in the
Upper Hill District and is known as Bedford
Dwellings. The First families are scheduled to
move into these homes in April, 1940. The
twenty-acre project site, which had to be leveled
and graded before construction, includes four
acres of former sloping play space known as Am-
mon Playground. This recreation area has been
relocated on a site filled in by project grading,
immediately west of the project boundary. It is
now double its former size.

The larger area selected for cooperative de-
velopment has been almost complétely redesigned.
About three and one-
half million cubic yards
of waste hillside are
being cut from Ruch,

A view of Kennard Playground before grading opera-
tions were started. Ruch Hill. in the background.
was chopped OFF in some places as much as a hundred
feet to make room for a Terrace Village housing unit.

Goat,.and Gazzam Hills and poured into Soho
Valley in a tremendous topographical face-lifting
job. Nathan Straus, United States Housing Au-
thority Administrator, has called this “the most
dramatic achievement of its kind in the United
States.” Terrace Village Units One and Two,
jointly covering over I 30 acres, are each to be
located on two elevations on opposite sides of this
leveled fill, which will hold the new twelve-acre
Kennard Playground. The old Kennard Play-
ground was hidden away in narrow Soho Valley.
It had about six acres of space terraced in three
levels—obviously a natural handicap to proper
recreation use. This whole remodeled area will
be truly a Garden Community.

Both of these plans were reviewed and ap-
proved by the Department of City Planning. The

~ City Park and Recreation Bureaus are develop-

ing, maintaining, and operating this play area,
while the Housing Authority is in charge of the
adjacent project properties.

The sites having been agreed upon, it was nec-
essary to study the recreation facilities of the sur-
rounding neighborhoods in order best to adjust
the projects to their locale. The Bureau of Re-
search of “the Federation of Social Agencies pre-
pared a map of the city showing existing public
and private recreation facilities. This' map was
reviewed by the Ad-
visory Committee and
by the Authority in de-
termining what recrea-

 

688 HOUSING AND RECREATION COOPERATION

tion needs of the ultimate
project population would
not be met by the existing
provisions.

Supplying recreation op-
portunities for 12,500 proj-
ect residents, with their

"Planning Recreation Service for USHA-
aided Housing Projects" is the title of a
recent USHA pamphlet outlining the steps
of project planning and the stages at which
recreation officials can assist the local
housing authority. Copies are available
from the Tenant Relations Section of the
United States Housing Authority, North
lnterior Building' Washington' D. C.

Educational requirements
of children were planned
for through a cooperative
agreement between the
Board of Education and the
Authority. “The Board
shall cooperate with the Au-
thority by furnishing school

necessarily divergent inter—
ests, is a sizeable problem.
But this is only a portion of the group to be
served. The Authority and the Advisory Com-
mittee began with the premise that the whole
neighborhood, and not merely the projects, must
be considered. i

In the areas surrounding the Pittsburgh proj—
ects, it was discovered that the recreation facili—
ties existing prior to initial revision would be en-
tirely inadequate for all age groups of the soon-
to-be increased population. The needs appeared
to be as follows:

For preschool children—nurseries and play
areas; for school children—more schools, play—
grounds, and indoor space, including meeting
rooms, craft rooms and gymnasiums; for adult—
outdoor recreation areas and community buildings
for meetings, dances, and libraries.

Having decided upon the needed space and
equipment, the next step was to see that such was
‘provided. This too was done on a cooperative
basis between the Housing Authority and other
city agencies.

Preschool children require recreation facilities
within the immediate vicinity of their homes.
Hence this is a need within the project bounda-
ries. The Pittsburgh Housing Authority itself
has planned space and equipment such as indoor
and outdoor play areas, sand boxes, and spray
pools for this group. A few well-situated junior
play areas with adjoining indoor space for play,
arts, crafts, and adult education are provided.
Furthermore, advantage is
being taken of a natural

buildings, improvements,
services, and facilities for the projects and by
giving other aid on behalf of the projects. The
Board agrees to provide, together with educa-
tional facilities mentioned above, auditorium,
gymnasium and meeting places.” These facilities
are to be open to the community as a whole as
well as to the school children.

The City Park and Recreation Bureaus, as
already indicated, are taking an active part in
planning to meet the needs of children and adults.
The new Edith Darlington Ammon Playground,
adjoining Bedford Dwellings, will include an out—
door swimming pool, play spaces for children and
adults, volleyball and basketball courts, and an
athletic field. These hard-surfaced courts can be
flooded in winter for ice skating. A well-equipped
community building is planned, including club
rooms, auditorium, gymnasium, dressing rooms
and showers. Kennard Playground, located on
the filled-in area between the Terrace Villages,
will likewise include the swimming pool of the
playground plus play spaces for all ages, volley-
ball and tennis courts, an athletic field, and an
amphitheater across the project boundary. The
Kennard Community Building will house facilities
similar to those described in the Ammon structure.
The City Park and Recreation Bureaus report that
in this park planning there has been greater em-
phasis on active recreation than has been cus-
tomary in the past.

The Authority also decided that the small meet-

ing rooms provided in the
schools and playground

hillside to develop a splen-
didly located amphitheater
at almost no additional cost.
Leadership will probably
be supplied by other agen-
cies and by parents. This is
almost the only recreational
responsibility assumed by
the Pittsburgh Housing Au-
thority, and then only as
part of a cooperative plan.

The nation's first census of housing will be
taken in April as part of the Sixteenth De-
cennial Census. Facts on physical features
and equipment of dwellings. type of tenure,
actual rental or estimated rental value if
occupied by owner.mortgage characteristics
and other facts will be sought through thirty-
one questions included in the schedule. The
Census Bureau. believing that the data se-
cured will be of great value to housing ex-
perts. city officialsI social workersI manufac-
turers and builders and other groups' urgesthe
cooperation of all citizens in this enterprise.

community buildings would
not be adequate to serve
the entire neighborhood. To
meet this inadequacy, a
central community building
has been planned to supple-
ment those already men-
tioned

These plans for neigh-
borhood recreation facili-

(Continued on page 702)

f—

Youth's Interest in Community Recreation

young people attended

the evening session of
Chicago’s Annual Recre-
ation Conference. These
young people had been
arbitrarily selected by the
neighborhood recreation
committees and commu-
nity councils. They had
no part in the planning
or promotion of the pro-

IN 1938, about fifty

In the February issue of Recreation mention was
made of the Fifth Annual Recreation Conference
conducted by the Chicago Recreation Commis-
sion' and of the part played by youth in the meet-
ings. A recent Information Bulletin issued by the
Commission tells how the interest and participa-
tion of the two hundred young people attending
the special Youth Session of the Conference were
secured, and recites the steps being taken to make
this interest count in the development of the
city's program'. We are presenting a résumé of
the information for the benefit of other commu-
nity groups wishing to enlist the aid of youth in
the interest of their city-wide recreation plans.

ing recreation through-
out the city ?” There was
a unanimous opinion that
youth should be definitely
identified with recreation,
and a city-wide organiza-
tion was proposed which
would have a part in the
annual Recreation Con-
f erence. The meeting re-
solved itself into a con-
ference planning com-

gram, and following the ,
Conference nothing more was done by the youth.

In setting up plans for the 1939 Conference, con—
siderable interest was shown by city-wide youth
organizations in greater participation in the meet-
ings. Local community councils in several sections
of the city expressed their desire to have young
people from their neighborhoods have an active
part in the city-wide recreation movement. Young
people who had been participating in group ses—
sions in past conferences in cooperation with
P.T.A.’s, women’s clubs, and social agency ses—
sions asked to have a session of their own. All
indications pointed to the awareness of these
young people of their place in recreation programs
of local neighborhoods. The general conference
committee accordingly included in its program a
youth session and- urged that the problem be
thoroughly explored with youth in the hope that
by having young people participate in the Confer-
ence a continued interest would be developed in
the city-wide recreation problem and local recrea-

tion committees of youth might be set up.

Sixteen youth agencies representing fraternal,
social, character building, church, and neighbor-
hood youth groups, selected from approximately
sixty city-wide organizations, were invited to
select representatives who were leaders in their
respective organizations to attend a meeting in
which young people would discuss the question.
Community councils which had organized junior
recreation committees were also invited to send
representatives. At the meeting the question was

put before the young people: “Will youth partici-
pate in the city-wide Recreation Conference and

organize themselves for the purpose of further-

mittee divided into three
operating committees -—-promotion, program, and
exhibits.

Three subcommittee meetings and three addi-
tional general meetings were held over the next
four weeks. At this time additional youth organi-
zation groups participated both by attending meet-
ings and helping to promote the youth session at
the Conference. Many youth organizations were
asked to submit the name of youth leaders from
their respective organizations to be invited to the
youth session dinner and program. Several hun—
dred invitations were issued.

In planning the subjects for program discussion
at the Conference, three main topics were de-

cided upon :

(I) “A Definition of Recreation -——An Explana-
tion of the Opportunities and Inadequacies of
Recreation in Chicago”

(2) “Benefits to Be Derived from Adequate Rec-
reation in Metropolitan Areas”

( 3) “Should Youth Be Represented in Any Rela-
tion on the Chicago Recreation Commission
—How Should It Be Represented?”

These subjects were to be presented by youth,
and the program was to be in their hands. Recom-
mendations were to be made by youth representa-
lives following an open forum.

During the discussion at the planning commit-
tee meetings of youth several recommendations
were made to be brought up at the youth session.
It was decided that definite consideration would
be given the organization of a permanent youth
group in the interest of recreation in cooperation
with the Chicago Recreation Commission and
neighborhood communities.

689

690 YOUTH'S INTEREST IN COIlIMUNITY RECREATION

At the Conference

About two hundred young people representing
thirty-five different organizations attended the

youth dinner and program which was held in a '

separate banquet hall at the same time the main
Conference dinner was going on in the grand ball—
room of the hotel which was the headquarters of
the Conference. The youth themselves planned
the dinner arrangements which were carried
through in a very dignified manner. The program
included a roll call by organizations, the posting
of the colors by representatives of the Boy Scouts,
and the presentation of a number of topics by
young people. During the discussion period four
members of the Chicago Recreation Commission
were welcomed, and the group was addressed by
Dr. Philip L. Seman, Chairman of the Chicago
Recreation Commission. Following the dinner
and program, the entire assemblage of young peo—
ple adjourned to the main ballroom and were
greeted by the toastmaster. The procession of
youth made a great impression upon the thousand
and more people in attendance at the banquet.

Looking to the Future

The young man who had served as chairman of
the planning committee for the youth group
selected an executive committee of youth to plan
for a meeting with representation from all youth
groups at which
r e c o m m e n d a-
tions made at the
general youth
session would be
discussed fur-
ther. Among the
recommenda—
tions were the
following:

That a perma-
nent youth or-
ganization be set
up with repre-
sentatives from
all city-wide
youth agencies,
organizations,
and groups.

That this youth
organization
confine its poli-
cies and objec-
tives to recrea-

tion and the constructive use of leisure time by
youth.

That plans be made to hold four general meet-
ings throughout the year, having in mind the
promoting of a large youth session at the Sixth
Annual Recreation Conference in 1940.

- That a representative group of twenty—five or
more youth be selected to meet with members of
the Chicago Recreation Commission to discuss
relationships and further participation by youth
in cooperation with the Chicago Recreation Com-
mission.

The assembly of nearly two hundred youth
voiced itself as desiring to have youth represented
in relationship to the Chicago Recreation Com-
mission. The youth session further resolved that
as an organized body of youth and as an organi-
zation and groups of individuals, they accept the
responsibility for helping to create and organize
local and neighborhood recreation committees;
that they, participate either as members of adult
recreation committees or from junior recreation
committees within their own neighborhoods, and
aid in securing the cooperation and participation

(Continued on page 703)

How can these young people of FitchburgI Mass..
be guided so that they will play a part in the
development of community recreation in that city?

 

Courtesy Massachusetts IVPA

. . . And the Pursuit: of Democracy

EMOCRACY has been making
D excellent table talk these
days. Democratic “tech-
niques,” “procedures, proces-
ses” and “implications” make
splendid conference-theme fodder. Teachers, so-
cial workers and recreation leaders have hitched
their conference wagons to the ascendant star——
“the contribution of blank field to the democratic
wav of life.” In brief, democracy is current lingo.
Of all the ink spilled in the name of the demo-
cratic concept in the last years, no one drop was
more challenging than Dr. James Plant’s “Recrea-
tion and the Social Integration of the Individual”
in the September 1937 issue of RECREATION. The
message was vital, sincere. A certain county
school office, committed to the principles of pro—
gressive education, ordered several hundred re-
prints and set about recording responses.
Soon the seeds began to sprout. The newly
proselytized came home to roost.
Yes, the readers agreed, yes, the article is ex-

- cellent, challenging, thrilling—

Most people will agree —-
But nothing will happen!
Why?

Because Dr. Plant's ideas are essentially the ac-
cepted democratic concepts which presuppose per-
sons essentially democratic to carry them out!

Leadership, then, democratic leadership is the
answer. All we need is leadership and then we
won’t be guilty of what Dr. Plant called “selling
our birthright for a mess of pottage.” But surely
you recall the story of the mice and the bell.
around the cat’s neck? That’s right, the beautiful
idea needed only an executor to save, now and
forever, all mice-posterity from the predatory cat.
Only an executor—only someone to do it.

Refresh your memory on
Dr. Plant’s thesis—-

Attitudes are more im-
portant than techniques —
the doing counts—not the
results of doing, extend the
rhythm of the individual,
don't impose rhythm on him
———your pattern will be event-
ually debilitating. Live with
yourself instead of escap—

skill. . . .

By CAROL L. LEVENE

State Supervisor of Training
Work Proiects Administration
n a Northern California

"Democracy needs a longer period ofgrowth
than a standardized society planned from
above. The more complex the society. the
more skill the individual needs to find his
unique place in it. It takes time to acquire
A state which can put human
values first will be glad to give individuals
time to discover their potentialities. This
is an expensive procedure' but human
beings are worth what it costs."—Mildred
McAfee in Education for Democracy.

ing yOUrself, thus deriving the in-
dividual-centered culture; it is
around this individual-centered
culture that we must build new
social frontiers, etc.

Let’s make another check-list ——

Who develops the attitude of the new recrea-
tion leaders?

Who plans the program and what are his ob—
j ectives—doing or results?

Trace back to the individual behind all of Dr.
Plant’s statements—the recreation executive.

Does that recreation executive —

Genuinely solicit ideas from his staff?

Acknowledge such ideas when he puts them to
use?

Give his staff a stake in the thinking-processes
preceding a new move? ‘

If the recreation (or the school or social wel—
fare) executive -is a real democrat, one who is
willing to practice his democracy in all personal
and professional relationships, the current lingo
takes on meaning. Unfortunately, more cases in
negative point come to mind. For example:

A recreation executive in a large community
decided that he would like to observe one of the
national youth weeks by having the young people
of his town operate his business for a day. He
decided he’d like to have them plan programs,
meet with his Board, sign checks, handle press
releases, confer with staff and supervise facilities.
The more he thought of the plan, the better he
liked the idea. Being something of the kind of
democrat who lives its precepts, he cast about for
the best method .of selecting the various one-day
executives and assistants. “Select,” he thought,
“why not elect?” So he interviewed the local
school executive and asked if the election could be
conducted, with the usual
paraphernalia of election, by
the school.

The school executive,
steeped in the long practice
of quasi-democrats, gave
the question due thought.

“No,” he said, weightily,
“that won’t work. They

won’t elect the deserving or
the skilled. But,” he

691

692 . . . AND THE PURSUIT OF DEMOCRACY

added, shedding the quasi and emerging resplend-
ent in his autocracy, “I’ll appoint them.”

The recreation executive, something of a demo-
crat, remember, demurred.

“I realize,” he agreed, “that we haven’t a situa-
tion here strictly paralleling a municipal election,
since my job is appointive, but I feel that the
parallel is sufficient for the purposes of Youth

Week.”

The school executive explained that the differ-
ences in appointment and election did not concern
nim, but pointed out again—

“The right children won’t get it if we let them
elect. I’ll have to appoint them to be sure.”

They argued back and forth a bit, and finally,
for the sake of his now-shredded dream of ob-
serving Youth Week as well as for the sake of
community relationships, the recreation executive
compromised on allowing the school executive to
select five or ten meritorius and skilled young
ones from whom all the other yOung ones could
be trusted to elect several (since each of the five
or ten was equally skilled and equally meritorious).

The point of the story? Oh, yes. The school
executive was subsequently invited to speak to the
P.T.A. during youth week and his topic was—-
“How Can We Teach Our Youth American De-
mocracy F” The recreation executive didn’t go to
the meeting, because he is becoming allergic to
democracy.

That is a clear-cut example of lip-service. An-
other, and less simple case, is one where the par-
ticular executive, himself a willing and sincere
democrat, mistakenly substituted terms for
practice: .

In a large summer camp, the camp director
decided one year to put on a program which
would give the camper a free, untrammeled,
democratic summer. He decided that the camp
should be based on an “informal” philosophy of
education. Nothing was scheduled. Activities
“grew” from the desires of the campers, subtly
stimulated by the camp stafic displaying itself en-
gaging in the activities.

The day began later than most camp days, be—
cause “children don’t like to get up early.” By
the same token, rest period was eliminated. In
other words, the entire camp was apparently con-
ducted in direct accord with Dr. Plant’s thesis of
extending, rather than imposing rhythms.

Actually, nothing of the sort happened. This
camp director confused formal and informal with

obligatory and optional. He made a sweeping'
barter—“democracy” for planning. In running an

optional (informal) program, he produced an un-
scheduled, unorganized and unplanned camp. He
forgot that choice, a prime element in the demo-
cratic process, exists only where tangibles exist
to be selected.

He started out with the correct thesis. Where
did he slip? His original conception was correct
and essentially democraticzithe progressive and
intelligently handled camp program, like that of
any other social group, should be formulated by
its participants. But from the point of initial con—
ception on, the camp must still be scheduled,
planned and—led! It is the attitude of the leader
and his consequent technique of handling the pro—
gram that stamps the ultimate product “demo-
cratic” or as in this case, “died ‘a-borning.’ ”

In summary, then, we have, first, agreed with
Dr. Plant that the democratic process is more
than just a desirable factor in recreation: it is
essential to its healthy pursuit; second, that such
a concept must have leadership, and third, that the
leadership must be genuinely democratic before
the concept takes shape as reality. Two examples
were cited to indicate two of the major fallacies
of “democratic leadership.”

Obviously, the school executive who wanted to

appoint Youth Week officers thought he was a
democrat. because he lives in and by a democratic
society. He elects his public servants, but he can’t
understand what similarity there is between his
accepted mode of living and a proposed election
for children. Example number one, then, is the
leader who thinks he is democratic, but rules
autocratically. The camp director goes one step
further and thinks democratically. But instead of
leading from there on or even ruling autocrati-
cally from there on, he simply does nothing. He
sits still and envisions.

.The first step to be taken in providing genu—
inely democratic leadership to guide what Dr.
Plant calls “an individual-centered culture,” is to

recognize the subtle difference between thinking,

and acting democracy. The one step remaining is
ultimately the most important—“How are such
leaders to be trained?”

“we are learning that democracy is not merely
a method of ballot counting so that a numerical
majority may make the rules and administer the
governmental machinery for the rest of us. De-
mocracy is a way of life.”-—-chry M. Busch.

WORLD AT ' PLAY

WASHINGTON, D. C.,
will again be the scene
of the National Folk
Festival which will be
held at Constitution Hall, April 25, 26 and 27,
1940. Miss Sarah Gertrude Knott, national di-
rector of the Festival, writes that the Washington
Post Folk Festival Association which is sponsor-
ing the Festival, is anxious to have again the most
genuine traditional folk expressions of the country
on the program, and she urges that groups inter-
ested get in touch with her at the headquarters of
the association, 508~9 Munsey Building, 1329 E
Street, Northwest, \Vashington, D. C.

Seventh National
Folk Festival

THE 1940 Music Week
will be celebrated May
5th to 11th. Informa-
tion regarding the cele-
bration and helpful literature may be secured
from C. LI. Tremaine, Secretary of the National
Music Week Committee, 30 Rockefeller Plaza,

New York City.

National Music
Week in 1940

A RESEARCH planning
committee of experts
to determine research
needs in safety educa-
tion has been set up by New York University’s
National Center for Safety Education, according
to Dr. Herbert  Stack, director of the center.
The committee, of which Dr. Raymond Franzen
is chairman, will formulate problems in safety
education in order of priority as research proj-
ects, and indicate techniques for their investiga-
tion. During the center’s first year 375 students
from thirty states were enrolled in nineteen dif~
ferent courses.

At the Center for
Safety Education

EARLY last August,
Ontario, Canada, cele—
brated a holiday which
has no historical, re—
ligious or political basis. An unnamed holiday, set
aside seventy years ago by the city council of
Toronto, it has been called “Civic Day,” but in
reality it is simply a hot summer day when every—
one can relax without bothering to remember
what the holiday stands for. Although many

A Day Dedicated to
Doing Nothing!

merchants complained at first, other towns in On-
tario followed the example of Toronto, until now
the residents of the entire province look forward
to their “Do Nothing Day.” Manitoba and Al-
berta caught up the bizarre celebration, and many
predict that the holiday will sweep throughout
Canada. As an example of the widespread 0b-
servance of the enticing “Do Nothing Day,” the
Border Cities Star announced that there will be no
issue of the paper on that day.

UNDER the direction
of the Mayor, a pro-
bation officer, and the
Automobile Club,
Middletown, it is said, will be the first city in
northern Connecticut to establish a Bicycle Safety
Club. The principal objective is to reduce danger
on the road by teaching children the rules of
safety. The owners of bicycles must register
them; they will be given a number license plate
after they have passed a safety test on brake,
wheels, headlight, tires, handle bars, bell or horn,
and reflector. Saturday morning conferences will
be held with members who have violated the rules
of the club. First offenders might have to write
out the safety rules a prescribed number of times,
and second offenders might have their bicycles
taken from them for a short period.

Where Bicycling Is
Made Safe

i940 MARKS the twen-
tieth anniversary of
The Minneapolis Hik-
ing Club, celebrated in
their bulletin, The Minnehiker, and at the Club’s
annual banquet. The Twentieth Anniversary
Yearbook, giving a résumé of the organization’s
history, was distributed to the 393 members.

Hikers Celebrate an
.9 Anniversary

YOUNG people from
sixteen to twenty-five
years of age in Santa
Monica, California,
are enjoying very successful weekly dances. The
dances, which are sponsored by the Playground
and Recreation Department and the Coordinating
Council, are held each Friday night with instruc-
tion offered from 7:30 to 8:30, followed by
dancing until II :00 P. M. The girls’ gymnasium

693

Weekly Dances for
Young People

694 ' WORLD AT PLAY

      
  

. RIN GER
(Patented)

 
 
     
   
   
      
 
   
       
       

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DBTE

Write for catalog of the~ DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes
0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

. Stake Holders 0 Carrying Case:
0 Rule Book: 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

at the high school is used, and the services of
the worker in charge of the recreation program
at this center are provided by the Commission.
The agencies associated with the Coordinating
Council furnish chaperones and help in a variety
of ways. From one hundred to one hundred and
fifty young people have enjoyed each dance. Each
person attending pays 25 cents, and the receipts
meet the expenses. Music is provided by a high
school orchestra.

National Playground in TVA Area —— In
January, President Roosevelt sent a special mes-
sage to Congress asking broader statutory author-
ity to develop recreation resources in the Ten—
nessee Valley which would permit the Authority
to undertake development of the resources over
which it has jurisdiction. “Such powers,” stated
the message, “should include authority to con-
struct and operate recreation facilities on proper-
ties acquired in connection with the primary pur-
poses of the water 'control program; to utilize the

work relief resources of such agencies as the
NYA, WPA, and CCC in carrying out the de-

velopment program.” Norris Park, adjacent to

Norris Dam, has become so popular, according to
the report, that demands for facilities have far

exceeded the supply, but under the existing law

TVA ,cannot provide additional facilities. The
park now includes twenty-five vacation cabins, a
public lodge, an outdoor theater, a trailer or camp—
ing area, a swimming area, two picnic areas, and
a riding stable.

The Problems of Youth—In Youth Tell Their
Story, Howard M. Bell (National Youth Com—
mission, American Council On Education) states
the three most pressing problems of youth as em—
ployment, education, and recreation. Of recrea-
tion he says, “For no less than millions of young
people in America, this calls for- an awakening, on
the part of communities, to the social as well as
the personal values of healthful and satisfying
recreation, and a determination to develop leisure-
time programs that will not only absorb energies
that often lead to delinquent behavior, but which
will add something valuable to the spiritual
stature of those who participate in them.”

“The Romance of Playing Cards”—-Indi—
viduals with whom card playing is a hobby will
want to know that an interesting article entitled
“The Romance of Playing Cards” may be secured
free in the form of a bulletin from the Secretary,
Association of American Playing Card Manu—
facturers, 420 Lexington Avenue, New York City.

The Y.M.C.A.-——The Y.M.C.A.’s of the United
States and Canada have pioneered in thirty-two
countries during the last fifty years. October 4,
1939 marked the fiftieth anniversary of two
Americans leaving for foreign lands. During the
next twelve months the 1,290 Y.M.C.A.’s in the
United States will pay homage to the pioneers and
to those who now serve abroad.

The recreation movement in the United States
has received very substantial aid from the
Y.M.C.A. Here many present leaders received
part of their training.

The Philippine Amateur Athletic Federation
-—For the past four years the 1-"hi1ippine Amateur
Athletic Federation, which was granted a charter
by the Philippine legislature in December, 1925,
has been conducting in cooperation with the Of-
fice of the National Physical Director a summer
school for physical directors, coaches, physical

—w I —m&m-_P“r M,

WORLD AT PLAY 695

education teachers, and recreation directors and
leaders. The courses, given at the Rizal Memorial
Field in Manila, are Offered in an effort to raise
the standard of professional leadership in' this

field.

A Group Method of Teaching Tennis—The
Athletic Institute, Inc., 209 South State Street,
Chicago, Illinois, has issued three bulletins deal-
ing with the subject of group methods of teach-
ing tennis which have been evolved after long ex-
perimentation. The first bulletin is entitled “How
to Conduct a Novice Tennis School”; the second,
“Methods of Instruction for Tennis Schools”; and
the third, “Tennis Tips for Amateurs by Well
Known Stars.” This final bulletin contains ma-
terial which will be helpful for publicity articles.
The entire series consists of thirty-seven pages of
single—spaced mimeographed material which will
be mailed prepaid by the Athletic Institute to any
recreation department requesting it and sending
39 cents in stamps.

Boys and Girls Week—April 27 to May 4,
1940 will be Boys and Girls Week, and each day
will be featured by a different interest. Saturday,
the opening day of the observance, will be Recog-
nition Day; Sunday, the Day in Churches; Mon-
day, a Day in Schools; Tuesday, Vocational Day;
Wednesday, Health and Safety Day; Thursday,
Citizenship Day; Friday, a Day in Entertainment
and Athletics; and Saturday, a Day Out of Doors
and Evening at Home. Further information may
be secured from the National Boys and Girls
Week Committee, 35 East Wacker Drive, Chi-
cago, Illinois. ‘

Seventh Annual Conference on Outdoor
Recreation—Stemming from the theme, “Rec-
reation and You,” the seventh annual Conference
on Outdoor Recreation to be held under the
auspices of the Massachusetts State College has
been announced for March 15, 16, and I 7, 1940,
at the State College in Amherst. Dr. William G.
Vinal, Professor of Nature Education, is chair—
man of the committee in charge.

The Conference will include section meetings
of interest to people in many fields. In addition
to consideration of the broader problems facing
recreation generally, special attention will be de-
voted to archery. golf, and parks, camping, com-
munity organization for recreation, hotels and
restaurants, horsemanship, hunting and fishing,
nature study and gardening, mountaineering and

 

   

No child weighs 54,000 pounds! Yet—
LOUDEN Playground Equipment lit-
tings have a guaranteed tensile
strength of 54,000 pounds per
square inch! . . . Why? Because
LOUDEN Playground Equipment must
be safe—just as it must be faultless -
in design, materials, workmanship—in
every detail which insures perfect
performance! . . . That’s why
LOUDEN equipment is in praise-win-
ning use on play~

grounds all over the

world.

   

Write for our Catalogs on (1) Playground Equipment
(2) Swimming Pool Equipment (3) Tennis and Badminton
Posts, Reels, Nets and Markers! Address Dept. R-Z.

11
THE In E.  CORPORATION

OTTAWA * ILLINOIS

 

Manufacturers of the famous "Louden," "Chicago" and
"Spalding" lines of playground, swimming pool and gym-
nasium equipment; and of "Iunglegym" Climbing Structures.

trails, photography, and livestock. At the evening
session on March 15th there will be a general
session which will take the form of an open meet-
ing of the Public Recreation Commission of the
Town of Progress. This typical New England
town of 10,009 pe0ple will critically consider the
following subjects: Recreation in the Town For-
est; the Municipal Golf Course; Nature Activi-

Write for free information con-

cerning our complete line of Playground Apparatus,
Pool Equipment, Fold-O-Leg Tables and Folding
Stands for Bands, Orchestras and Choral Groups.

MI‘ICIIIELI. MFG. C0.

3034 W. FOREST HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE. WISC.

696 RESEARCH IN RECREATION

    

  

CHARACTER
AND CITIZENSHIP

brings each month to its readers a story
of what community organizations, insti-
tutions, and agencies are doing -- or
not doing --

To lay the foundation for good citizenship

To build good character

To develop personality

To solve community problems

To safeguard democratic institutions

To improve family life

To promote recreation and good health

To encourage cooperative activities

       
   
   
   
         
       
       
  

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship. It is
of particular value to:

School and Church Leaders
Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

Boy and Girl Scout Executives
Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities
Directors of Recreation

 
       
   
   
     
   
    
  
 

  

Dr. Francis L. Bacon, Principal of the Evanston,
Illinois, Township High School says, "The current
issue of your magazine, CHARACTER and
CITIZENSHIP, came to my desk this week. I
carried it home and pleasantly, I believe profit-

ably, too, spent an evening reading the entire
contents.

"Permit me to express my appreciation of the
increasing value of this unique periodical. I could
ardently wish that every school library possess
one or more subscriptions. It would seem, too. that
civics and guidance teachers might well utilize
the magazine as reference material for students.

"The overview which your periodical gives to
the work of the various social agencies and the
emphasis afforded to the desirable coordination
of school and community social agencies consti—

tute a superior service. More power to your
effortsl"

 
    
    
       
    
      
       
       
     
 

Send your order to

Character and Citizenship

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

’-.--I-----------

o
. ’O Please record my name as a sub-
0 scriber to CHARACTER AND CITIZEN—
; SHIP as checked below.

I] One year subscription at $2.00

 
       
     
         
    
 

NAME  

ADDRESS ........................................................................ ..

  
  

  

CITY .......................................... .. STATE 
Nat. Rec.

 
 

ties ; the Work of the Public Recreation Commis-
sion ; Photography as Recreation; Use of School
Buildings for Recreational Purposes. Dr. Jay B.
Nash of New York University will summarize
the discussions and will address the delegates on
the Conference theme, “Recreation and You.”

Research in Recreation
(Continued from page 653)
feminacy. That the harmonious life requires as

a necessity the creation and appreciation of beauty
is not as a rule consciously understood.

Social—minded research workers point out that
through the medium of recreation many people of
diversified backgrounds may share pleasurable ex-
periences together and through understanding one
another could help integrate our society in such a
way that many of the persistent problems of liv-
ing might be solved through mutual respect and
understanding as the result of cooperative play
efforts. '

- A Folly Party for April First

(Continued from page 654)
line, he picks up his balloon and races back to

touch off the second person in line, who repeats
the performance. This continues until everyone
in line has had a chance at the balloon. The team
whose last contestant regains his original place
First is the winner. _

A Lancing Contest is the next event of the eve—
ning. Three rings (embroidery hoops) are sus—
pended from the ceiling at one end of the room.
Two boys and one girl are chosen from each
team, and one team competes at a time. The girl
is supplied with a lance or straight stick about three
feet long; the two boys form a “pack saddle” by
clasping hands. At the word “Go” the girl mounts
to the saddle, and the boys charge straight at the
rings, turn as quickly as possible and return to
the starting line. In the meantime, the girl throws
the lance through one of the hoops at the instant
of approach. This is repeated three times, and
each time the lance goes through a ring the score
for that team is increased by ten points. The team
amassing the highest number of points wins.

A game of Charades may be built around quo—
tations which contain allusions to the foolish. For
instance, “The Foolish Virgin” could be acted out
in a Charade. Other possibilities are: “A fool and
his money are soon parted”; “Fools’ names like
fools’ faces are always seen in public places”;
“Wisdom is too high for a fool”; “A rod for the

DAISY ALFORD HETHERINGTON 697

Daisy Alford Hetherington

'On January 8, 1940, Dr. Daisy Alford Hether-
ington, wife of Dr. Clark W. Hetherington, died
in California. Mrs. Hetherington was widely

known as the founder of the California Play
School and as a writer on play schools and other

educational subjects. For the greater part of her.

life she was actively interested in the recreation
movement.

 

 

fool’s back”; “Every inch that is not fool is
rogue”; “Fools, to talking ever prone, are sure to
make their follies known”; “The fellow is wise
enough to play the fool, and to do that well craves
a kind of wit”; “Pennywise and pound foolish.”

For the next game the players are scattered
about the rooms. The guest who acts as starter
stands near the center when the game begins. A
non-breakable clown doll is passed behind the
backs of the players as the starter tries to tag the
one- who is holding the clown. If the doll moves
quickly and several players make fake motions of
passing it on, the game becomes very exciting. If
several rooms are being used, the leader may have
difficulty in locating the doll, so a tiny bell fast-
ened around the dolls neck adds interest to the
game. '

Interspersed with the contests should be all the
old April Fool jokes and pranks which make this
day one which young people look forward to.

The refreshments may be as simple or as
elaborate as desired. Ice cream and cake or sand—
wiches and hot cocoa may be served. If a more
elaborate menu is desired, however, then creamed
chicken, hot buttered rolls, tomato and celery
salad, frozen custard, and individual cakes are
appropriate.

In order to Find partners for refreshments, dis—
tribute dunce caps with colored crepe paper pom—
poms fastened at the point. Use two ponipoms
of the same color so that partners can find each
other by matching pompoms. After this the
couples don their caps and march into the dining
room to the strains of lively music.

We Play Cards at Our Recreation

Center

(Continual from page 658)
6. Address of President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
7. Date of Expiration of President’s Term . . . . . . . . . . . ..

8. Club Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
9. Address of Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

 

  For Playground and
 g. -- . Recreational Departments
“a.  w: I .

 " Complete Line of
Equipment for all Sports

IIIE IIIIGEILDSMITH SONS, Inc.

 

JOHN AND FINDLAY SIS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

Members of this club, know the conditions upon which
charter is granted and hereby attach club constitution
and by-laws which are so drawn as to meet the require-
ments set forth in form “Application for Charters and
Charter Renewals” dated January, 1940.

We hereby certify this club is not connected with any

organization not under the jurisdiction of the Playground
and Recreation Department.

Club President’s Signature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Club Secretary’s Signature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
(a) Charter Renewal . . . . . . . . . . . .. ) Check L
(1)) Original Application . . . . . . . . .. I which \

Approved by:
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chief Director

GROUP WORK INSTITUTE
June 3--—15, 1940

\Vestern Reserve University

0 A two weeks’ institute for experienced group workers
including credit courses in Principles of Group Work,
The Understanding of Individuals in Groups, and The
Analysis of Program Activities.

A bachelor’s degree from a college of approved stand-
ing is required for admission.

For information address

SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES

Cleveland, Ohio

Western Reserve University

698 CAMP FIRE GIRLS TURN BACK THE CLOCK

  
  

" 'W   C (70 (3 [UL LE
. I, ‘51?"  ’  l  HARRY c. McKOWN. Editor
  p l' C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

  

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life

situations typical of the American way of living
and working together.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING co.

1515 LANE STREET - TOPEKA, KANSAS

 
    
 

Subscription
Price

$2.00

  

 

 

it is soft like cream, then beat thirty—five eggs,
leave out sixteen whites, strain off your eggs from

I the treads, and beat them and the butter together
till all appears like butter. Put in four or five
Spoonfuls of rose or orange-Hower water, and
beat again; then take your Hower and sugar, with
six ounces of caraway seeds, and strew them in
by degrees, beating it up all the time for two
hours together. You may put in as much tincture
of cinnamon or ambergrease as you please; butter
your h00p and let it stand three hours in a mod-
erate oven. You must observe always, in beating
of butter, to do it with a cool hand, and beat it
always one way in a deep earthen dish.”

It will be observed throughout this “charter
method” the group is made to feel it is responsible
to the director for its actions and needs to meet his
approval if it is to continue to use the facilities.
Experience has shown that if this is not done,
clubs become careless of the authority of the di—
rector and the Departinent and they develop an
attitude of ownership toward the facilities and of
right to special privileges and considerations.

Camp Fire Girls Turn Back the Clock-

(Continued from page 661 )

cake ever to be made without bread dough; and
white fruit cake, a recipe brought from England
in 1800 by a MassachUSetts sea captain.

The Nun’s Cake was thought to have been first
made by the Abbess of Whitby Abbey in Eng-
land, and its recipe cherished for generations in
great English families. The old recipe was as
follows:

“You must take four pounds of the finest
flower, and three pounds of double-relined sugar
beaten and sifted; mix them and dry them by the
fire till you prepare your other materials. Take
four pounds of butter, beat it with your hand till

The Camp Fire Girls marveled at those ancient
cooks who could beat “for two hours together.”
The modernized recipe for Nun’s Cake used by
them follows:

“One cup butter, one and one-half cups pow-
dered sugar, yolks of five eggs, whites of two
eggs, three quarters of a cup of milk, three cups
pastry Hour, two and one-half teaspoons baking
powder, one-quarter teaspoon salt, three teaspoons
caraway seeds, two teaspoons rose water, one-
half teaspoon extract of cinnamon.

ALL THE WORLD’S A BARBER SHOP 699

“Beat butter until soft and creamy, add sugar
and yolks of eggs beaten well. Stir in the un—
beaten whites of eggs and beat one minute. Sift
flour with baking powder and salt, adding alter-
nately with milk. Sprinkle in the caraway seeds,
beat well and add flavoring. Pour into well but-
tered cake tin and bake forty—five minutes in a
moderate oven.”

The White Fruit Cake recipe unearthed by the
New England girls is a delectable 'concoction,
baked in baking powder tins, each cake frosted
separately with boiled icing, then pyramided, and
twined with dark green Wandering Jew or wind—
ing flowers.

At a Camp Fire party held in a Southern log
cabin, the rough-hewn walls were festooned with
red, white and blue crepe paper, and corn was
popped over the blazing lire. Taffy pulls provided
the refreshments for some groups, but the girls
had to be careful not to spot their precious bor-
rowed costumes.

Two of the many clever favors invented for
these Americana parties were old-fashioned bou—
quets made of gum dr0p blossoms attached to a
paper doily frill with stems of wire thread, and
tiny birch bark canoes filled with candy, Place
cards were shaped like old home books, and red
candles hand-dipped by the girls provided the
light for one feast. Camp Fire hostesses in Min—
nesota used red and white checkered tablecloths
and kerosene lamps'for lighting.

Everything old-fashioned isn’t funny, the girls
have discovered while giving their parties. Besides
laughing at the quaintness of old songs, games,
dances, and clothes, they have gained a deep un-
derstanding of the charm of these antique cus-
toms. And, incidentally, they have had a won-
derful time.

All the World’s a Barber Shop

(Continued from page 662)

erboard pattern that was almost as loud as their
voices. The judges were ex-Governor Al Smith,
Jack Norworth of Harvest Moon fame, and the
writer of this report, serving for the fourth time
in that capacity. There was commUnity singing
by the audience of 12,000, music by the Park De-
partment Band, and an impromptu rendition of
Sweet Adeline and The Bowery by the judges,
with Commissioner Moses himself presiding.
The barber shop quartet contest has now become
one of the most popular forms of entertainment
throughout the country. It is most successful when

 

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

As Originally
Developed by. . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity

Basketball Coach
University of Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-.
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating
exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive Licenselllgreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO
3524 Dechb Street I no It a a

t 3 St. Louis. MO.
Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

presented in the actual setting of an old-fashioned
barber sh0p, with proper emphasis on costuming
and under the general direction of an experienced
master of ceremonies, able also to lead the audi-
ence in song and perhaps contribute a musical
specialty to the program. It is best not to let any
quartet sing more than two numbers, and to put

‘little if any restriction on the material, so long as
it is of the barber shop harmony type.

That, unique institution, Oglebay Park, in

LEISURE:

A National Issue
by Eduard C. Lindemaiz

A significant pamphlet in which Dr. Lindeman

points out the meaning of leisure in a democracy
and discusses the need, present progress, conflicting
concepts involved, and the next steps in democratic
planning for the leisure of the American people.

12 for $5.00: 50c. single copies

Association Press 34LE:$::£,?.Y$."°

700 ARE YOU PLANNING AN EASTER EGG HUNT?

—

GOOD
EQUIPMENT

B U l LDS
CONFIDENCE!

Your Baseball and Softball
Teams, to be good, need the
confidence which only the use
of good equipment can give
them. “It "Pays to Play” and it
pays to buy good bats to play
with. The complete line of
Louisville Slugger Bats for Base-
ball and Softball are shown in
our 1940 Catalog . . . Write for
a copy today to HILLERICH
& BRADSBY CO., Louisville,

 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

for BASEBALL and SOFTBALL

\Vheeling, West Virginia, held a most successful
outdoor contest during the past summer, chiefly
through the efforts of Edwin Steckel and Henry
Schrader, with Crispin Oglebay himself present
as a spectator. The winners of this event were
The Four Little Shavers, and the judges were the
Singing Millmen, who worked for the Wheeling
Steel Corporation. The whole affair went so well
and made such a hit with the audience of 2500
that it was immediately established as an annual
feature of the Oglebay Park musical program.
Individual glee clubs all over the country have

formed the habit of holding barber shop quartet .

contests at intervals, one of the best being at Mt.
Vernon, N. Y., under the direction of the late
“Teddy” van Yorx. The University Glee Club of
New York City regularly holds such a contest for
a large cup, originally offered by the famous Ham
Zone Quartet. Last Spring the resonant bass of
“Squire” Barber paced the Jay Birds to a "well
earned victory in this event, with half a dozen
quartets competing, all from the same club.

This leads to the final reflection that barber
shop harmony really works in two directions. Any
good glee club should contain the materiaLfor
several quartets, with unlimited possibilities for
home competition as well as representation in
various outside contests. But any barber shop
quartet is also the basis for a complete glee club,
needing only a gradual duplication of the four
voices to grow to an adequate size. \Nith a pinch-
hitter for each part you already have a double
quartet, and one more all round really makes it a
chorus. That is why the Associated Glee Clubs
are heartin in favor of barber shop ballads and
all their devotees, and ready to cooperate always
toward bigger, better and closer harmony.

Are You Planning an Easter Egg Hunt?
(Con-tinned from page 670)
the second to those between the ages of six and

ten, while the third included all between ten and
fourteen years of age. This was done in the in-
terest of safety and to provide the smaller chil-
dren with a fairer chance of success. Each group
conducted its hunt in a separate area which had
been especially prepared.

Following the egg hunt, which was brief, the
children reassembled in the center of the park
where they enjoyed egg rolling and various relay
contests. At the conclusion of the children’s events
a program was presented for the benefit of the
adults. This included a band concert by the local
Memory Post American Legion band and a num—
ber of sleight-of-hand tricks by a clever magician.

To maintain safety and preserve order among
the large number of children present during the
day, especially around the playground area, eighty
white clad recreation directors and assistants
wearing distinctive arm bands were in charge of
the various play activities. Under the supervision
of an American Red Cross instructor ten first aid
attendants maintained stations in the park. Only
a few minor cuts and bruises, however, required
treatment.

\Vith more than twenty-five miles of good trails
beckoning to them, hundreds of hikers took ad—
vantage of the expert guide service furnished by
the Recreation Department. Others, seeking relief
from a hot sun, found the cool waters of the park
plunge very refreshing, and capacity crowds
enjoyed the pool.

While members of the Recreation Department
dyed the eggs, prepared the areas where they were
hidden and arranged to supervise the program, the

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 701

success of the event was due to the unselfish co-
operation of the various civic bodies and public-
spirited citizens in San Jose.

The Place of a Hobby Program
(Continued from page 674) .
poses of comparison, to note the action taken by

other cities in developing hobby programs as part
of their broader recreational programs. We pre-
sent below the hobby activities of a few cities, as
far as information has been available.

The Cleveland Hobby Program

The Recreational Department of Cleveland in-
troduced hobby activities into its winter program
in 1938. The program includes: model airplane
building, model boat building, rug making, sew-
ing and dressmaking, metal crafts, jewelry mak—
ing, salvage crafts, cement crafts, games crafts,
handcraft, niarionettes‘, all types of dancing, and
music, including choral groups, harmonica bands,
piano, and folk songs.1 Personnel is supplied by
the Works Progress Administration, the National
Youth Administration, and municipal employees,
and is administered by the Supervisor of Girls’
and \Vomen’s Activities of the Recreation Depart-
ment. Finances are secured from city and private
grants. Materials are paid for by the hobbyists,
whenever possible.

The Chicago Recreation Commission sponsors a
hobby program which takes advantage of its large
recreation centers. Since its facilities are more
extensive than in most cities, the program is also
broader than the average.

The hobby program in Philadelphia, in contrast
with those of Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Chicago,
is sponsored not only by the public recreation
agency, but by the “Hobby League” of the Play-
ground and Recreation Association, which is a
private organization.2 The program is primarily
for adults, the activities being carried on in one
of the public schools live evenings a week, Mon-
day through Friday. The hobbies sponsored are:
Handcraft, dramatics, piano, playwriting, pho-
tography, home-workshop guild, folk dancing,
contra dances, marionettes, rhythmic dancing,
sketching and painting, coin club, tap and ball-
room dancing, symphony orchestra, mixed chorus,

 

1 The program was not in complete operation in December, 1938,
when the Supervisor of Girls' and \Vomen’s Activities was

interviewed. ' _ _
2The scope of this theSis is confined to hobbies Sponsored by

public recreation agencies. However, since Philadelphia is

unique in having both a public and a private agency, the
private is here illustrated in contrast With the public. No

consideration has been_ given to the private hobby groups and
hobbyists in Cincinnati.

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worlter I

   

 
    

MAGAZINES

_ National Municipal Review, December 1939

“We Thought the Battle Won 1” by C. A. Dykstra,
PreSident, University of Wisconsin. A plea for
the development of civic consciousness among all
classes of citizens in a community

The American City, December 1939

“Talking it Over with the Taxpayer.” Helpful hints
for forthcoming annual reports

“Recreation on the Reconstructed Bank of the Rari-
tan River”

“Wood Pulp Digester Liquor Used as a Dust Pal-
liative” by Henry W. Young

“Mud Trouble Cured by Paved Playgrounds”

“W'hy Wellsboro Built a Straw-Hat Swimming
Pool” by J. R. Crosetto, Wellsboro, Penna.

School and Society, December 2, 1939

“Teaching Patriotism in Our Public Schools” by
William H. Johnson

Parks and Recreation, December 1939

“Lighting a State Park” by H. E. Mahan, General
Electric Company

“Trends and Needs in Park Management.” Notes
from an address by Gilbert Skutt. Superintendent
of Parks, Los Angeles, Calif.

“Why a Garden Center?” by Mrs. William G. Mather

“Winter Sports in Northern Cities” by Harold Mott

Camping Illagazine, December 1939

“ARCamp Program for the Littlest Tots” by Helen

oss ‘

“Natural History—A Model Camp Activity” by
Herbert Bearl. Descriptions and pictures of Nat-
ural History Museum developments

“Sustaining Interests” by Mary Northway, Ph.D.,
University of Toronto

“Number 10 Tin—Can Stoves and Cookery” by

- Harold M. Gore

Journal of Health and Physical Education, December 1939

“Bring ’Em Back Alive l” by Lloyd Shaw. Impor-
tant hints in the deveIOpment of a program of

square dancing _ _ _
“Physical Education in the Light of the SOCial

Sciences” by Samuel Haig Jameson
“Adapted Sports for the Handicapped” by George

T. Stafford . _
“Is Our Athletic Philosophy Sound?” by \Villiam

Ralph La Porte

Camping World, December 1939

“A Camp Budget Outline”

“Oh, I Am Only the Camper.”
Camping

“A Camp’s
Rosenberg

Beach and Pool, December 1939

“Experiences in Promotion and Operation” by Jack
Mellon. Paper on indoor smmming pools . ”
“Sanitation—the Keynote of Efiicient Operation by

A. John Horn and A. Lloyd .Taylor . ”
“Swimming Pool and Recreational Bathing Code.

Rules and regulations of the Wisconsin State

Board of Health . _
“The Surf-Board as a Medium of Sport and Life-

Saving”

Symposium 011

Legal Responsibility” by Charles

702 IS ARCHERY A SAFE CLUB PROGRAM?

Recreation for Washington, Fall Issue 1939

Service Bulletin, December 1939. National Section on
\Vomen’s Athletics of the American Association for
Health, Physical Education and Recreation
“Connecticut Reports Variety in Play Days”

“Sports and Games for the Small High School” by
Rosina M. Koetting ‘
“Athletic Point System for High School Girls” by

Eliza J. Foulke
“Liberty Throw Ball” by Annabelle Ranslem

PAM PH LETS

Annual Reports 1938-1939

Department of Playground and Recreation, Los An-
geles, Cal.; Chicago Park District, Chicago, Ill.
(contains report of Division of Recreation); Play-
ground Division, Chicago, Ill.; Department of Rec-
reation. Detroit, Mich.; City Recreation Department,
Pontiac, Mich.; Great Falls Recreation Association,
Great Falls, Mont; Board of Recreation Commis-
sioners, Bloomfield, N. J.; Municipal Playground
Board, Ocean City, N. J.; Recreation Commission of
Auburn, Auburn, N. Y.; Greensboro Recreation
Commission, Greensboro, N. C.; Bureau of Bom-
berger Park, Bureau of Linden Center, Bureau of
Recreation, Dayton, Ohio; Department of Parks and
Recreation, Steubenville, Ohio; Playground Com-
mission, Hamilton, Ontario; Parkersburg Board of
Recreation, Parkersburg. W. Va.

Study of the Organization of the National Capital Parks
by H. S. Wagner and Charles G. Sauers

A Survey of Recreational Opportunities in Omaha, 1939
Bureau of Social Research, Department of Somology,

University of Omaha

Portland, Maine, Municipal Activities, 1938
Contains report of Recreation Commission

 

 

hiking and nature study, public speaking, music
appreciation, and model boat building.

In Philadelphia, a registration fee of twenty-
five cents is charged, which entitles one to engage
in as many activities as he may desire. The hob—
byists pay for their own materials, but no charge
is made for instruction. The Hobby League
serves. also, as a clearing house and bureau of

information for hobbyists.

Is Archery a Safe Club Program?
(Continued from page 683)

The archery club, though a genuine educational
experience, should not become a course in safety
education. But like many academic fields and
extracurricular activities the club presents splendid
avenues for the teaching of safety consciousness.
One of the finest projects in this connection is the
making of lantern Slides in art classes which in
turn could be used for visual safety education
purposes in archery. Diagrams, charts, and draw-
ings can be used as instructional aids also. In
English classes archery club members have oppor—
tunities of writing and giving special talks on
their experiences in archery. In school shops
where archery tackle is sometimes made, safety

procedures in the proper use of tools are part of
the student’s educational experience. Bulletin
board displays, exhibitions, assembly demonstra—
tions, and visitation days are but a few of the
many ways a worth-while club can bring attention
to good safety practices.

The answer to the principal’s question is, “Yes,

archery can be conducted safely.”

NOTE: Mr. Grimshaw, who prepared this article, is a
member of the stan of the Department of Health and

Physical Education of the Springfield, Mass., schools.
He is now on leave of absence at New York University.

Housing and Recreation C00peration
(Continued from page 688)

ties have been the result of careful study and plan-
ning on the part of the advisory committee, public
and private agencies, and the Housing Authority
working together cooperatively. The success of
this planning experience was made possible by
housers with interest and experiencejn recreation.
Cooperative planning between the Pittsburgh
Housing Authority and other agencies provided
the early emphasis on recreation planning with
its resultant well-integrated program.

Public housing is still in its infancy. Sixty-
three projects financed by either PWA or USHA
funds are now in operation. Over 300 more are
now being developed to rehouse eventually about
160,00010w-income families. Because of the new-
ness of the program, many local housing authori-
ties may be slow to recognize their own needs. Or
perhaps they will be at a loss to know where to
turn for guidance in the solution of some of their
recreation problems. In the light of these factors
the municipal recreation executive, always desir-
ous of serving the whole community, will wish to
do everything possible to c00perate with housing
officials.

Housing officials must be encouraged to accom-
plish their stated aim of “shelter plus.” We must
see that the low-rent housing movement provides
ample opportunity for community recreation.
Local housing authorities must have. proper or-
ganization of experienced personnel from the
very beginning of project development. They
must also plan cooperatively with other agencies
already engaged in recreation. In so doing, it is
the duty of recreation specialists to appreciate the
objectives of those who are working in the hous-
ing field and to promote in every way we can the
elimination of slums and the construction of low-
rent housing. Let us hope that both recreation

YOUTH’S INTEREST IN COMMUNITY RECREATION

b

and housing realize these opportunities for co-
operative development and make the most of them
for better community life.

Youth's Interest in Community

Recreation

(Continued from page 690)
of all neighborhood youth and recreational agen-
cies. They were agreed in feeling that youth as a
group of persons should be vitally concerned and
interested in doing something towards solving the
many problems of recreation and the proper use
of leisure time by youth in local communities.
Another resolution stated that this youth organi-
zation in no way duplicates the services of other
youth groups in Chicago or local neighborhoods,
and that it should be primarily concerned with
the recreational needs of young people and the
coordination of their efforts in the leisure-time
field.

Post Conference Meetings

Following the youth session dinner and pro-
gram a meeting was called by a dozen young
pe0ple who had taken considerable leadership in
the planning sessions. At this meeting plans were
laid for future action to be directed at two main
objectives: (I) to make permanent a youth rec-
reation organization; and (2) to bring about par-
ticipation of youth on the Recreation Commission.
Later twenty-five young people representing six-
teen youth organizations came together to plan
for a permanent youth organization. The young
people voted to have appointed a committee on
organization which would set up plans for a
permanent organization, with subcommittees ap-
pointed to consider such matters as name, purpose
and objectives, and plans for community co-
operation. At a later meeting held in December it
was definitely decided to draw up a constitution
and by-laws. '

With the cooperation of thirty-five out of sixty
agencies, and with two hundred young people
from all sections of the city enthusiastic about the
plan, it is believed that a continuing organization
of youth is now definitely assured. These young
people will become a service group devoted to
developing recreational facilities and opportuni-
ties for all youth.

NOTE: Since this article was prepared, word has been
received of the formal organization of the Chicago Youth
Recreation Council. The president of the Council and
one other representative have been appointed advisory
members to the Chicago Recreation Commission.

' I In a field as crowded and demand-

 ing as the teaching profession.
how can one be sure of success?

I By using JUNIOR ARTS AND AC-
AnswerITIVITIES. the most helpful magazine

for the teacher who wants to get ahead.

According to thousands of successful teachers who
use it, JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES now ranks as
the best-liked, the most useful and helpful magazine
published in the interest of teacher and pupil.

Its popularity is due to the wealth of full-page (9x12
inches) project illustrations, accurate and up—to-date
work material, creative activities, units, practical
ideas and suggestions that fill every issue—to its
usable source material and construction work corre-
lating with regular school subjects.

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES adds new features
as teachers ask for them, presents worth-while con-
temporary events in a way that can be used in the
classroom. Such a recent feature is the Admiral Byrd-
Antarctic material that started in the January issue.

And here's an exclusive feature of JUNIOR ARTS
AND AOTIVITIES: Teachers can obtain the same

project material shown in each issue, printed on one
side of the sheet only. This service enables a
teacher to give individual work sheets to each child
-— a big time saver for the busy teacher.

You can be the iudge. Send in your subscription on
the coupon provided. If, after examining the first

issue, you are not entirely satisfied that IUNIOR
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES will definitely help you and

your pupils, you may cancel your subscription order
by notifying us within ten days.

Subscribe Now!

10 BIG ISSUES '
FOR om ................. .. $2.00

J UNIOR ARTS
AND ACTIVITIES

740 Bush Street Chicago. Illinois

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
740 Rush StreetI Chicago. Illinois

Please enter my subscription to JUNIOR ARTS AND
ACTIVITIES for one year (10 issues), to start with

the ................................................ .. issue.

.. ........ ..I am enclosing $2.00
......... .. Bill me for $2.00

Name ........................................................................ ..

 

703

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The School Auditorium as a Theater

By Alice Barrows and Lee Simonson. Bulletin 1939, No.
4. Office of Education, U. S. Department of the In-
terior. Government Printing Oliice, Washington, D. C.

$.10.
THE PURPOSE of this bulletin, which throughout stresses

the importance of school planning for community use,
is to point out the functions of the school auditorium,
to describe some of 'the tendencies toward a more or—
ganized use of the auditorium both during the day and
for adults at night, to show how the construction of the
auditorium may help or hinder its effective use, and to
submit suggestions for more efiicient planning of audi—
toriums for school and community use. Part II, pre-
pared by Lee Simonson, theater consultant, offers a
wealth of concrete suggestions for the more effective

planning of the school auditorium.

The Folk Dance in Education

By Emil Rath. Burgess Publishing Company, Minne—
apolis, Minnesota. $1.25.

ABOOK FOR TEACHERS in which Mr. Rath has set forth

the importance of the folk dance in education with
a view of enhancing its use in the public school program.
The monograph is accordingly addressed to students and
teachers of education in general rather than to those
chiefly engaged in physical education, although the latter
‘ may be primarily interested in' it. The book concerns
itself mainly with what are known as folk dances, some
of which include song accompaniments. However, a few
other dances that have become p0pular because of their
appeal to children have been included.

How to Play Badminton

By Herbert L. Fisher, M.A. Burgess Publishing Com-
pany, Minneapolis, Minnesota. $1.35.

Ir HAS BEEN the purpose of the author in compiling this
manual, which by presenting adequate illustrations

makes necessary only a minimum of descriptive phrase- _'

ology, to help those players who are interested in improv-
ing their game and to provide material for instructors
engaged in teaching beginners in- the art of playing bad-
minton. Mr. Fisher has included in his manual only the
essential techniques which if mastered will improve the
game of both the beginner and the advanced player.

Housing and the Home

By Hazel Shultz. D. Ap leton-Centu C N
York. $2.00. p , ry ompany, ew

IF BETTER STANDARDS in housing are to have permanence.

there is need for engendering in the minds of the next
generation concepts of housing as a universal need and
one for which there must be individual as well as group
responsibility. Hence the importance of giving children
in school a concept of housing as an effective environ-
ment. This book has been prepared specifically for use in

704

secondary school home economics courses. Designed for
the field of home economics, the book includes material
on home furnishing, which may give it reference value
for art departments. Adult study groups, too, will be in-
terested in parts of it. The book is profusely illustrated

and is full of helpful suggestions.

Holiday Parties

By Dorothy Gladys Spicer. The VVomans Press, New
York. $1.50.

MISS SPICER takes us around the year in this new party

book with its programs for the holidays and special
days of each month. Each party has as its central theme
some festival~——folk, patriotic, or religious; each is com-
plete from invitations and decorations to entertainment
suggestions, favors, and refreshments. Every party is
preceded by a brief account of the occasion it celebrates
and some of the folk customs and beliefs with which the
day is popularly associated. The author has used many
old religious holidays as the inspiration for modern
parties and has drawn freely upon the rich festival back-
ground of superstition, folk tale, and food lore in de-
veloping both the parties and the folk plays they include.

Homemade Dolls in Foreign Dress

By Nina R. Jordan. Harcourt, Brace and Company, New
York. $2.00.

ow TO MAKE DOLLS and dress them in the native cos-

tumes of fifteen different countries is the subject of
this attractive book which also gives directions for mak-
ing domestic animals, typical little houses, and other
objects characteristic of each nation. One chapter shows
the Chinese fisherman and his sampan. Others give direc—
tions for making Dutch children and their windmill, a
Mexican boy and his burro, hut, and market.

Woodworking as a Hobby

By Emanuele Stieri. Harper and Brothers, New York.

$3.00.
AN EXHAUSTIVE, completely illustrated, step—by—step

manual for the amateur as well as the skilled crafts-
man, this volume describes the newest and most efficient
home, power woodworking tools, and their use and care.
Such fundamental processes are included as the making
of joints, finishing of wood, paint removal, and refinish-
ing and remodeling of furniture. Eight chapters are en—
tirely devoted to complete diagrammatic instructions for
making such household articles as shelves, tables, lawn
furniture. cabinets, and lamp bases.

American Skiing
By Otto Eugen Schniebs. E. P. Dutton and Company,
Inc.. New York. $3.50.
Aaoox FOR BEGINNERS as well as experts, this volume

is devoted entirely in content and pictures to Ameri-
can techniques and American terrain. There are over

.- Awnin—

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 705

330 illustrations including many action shots and movie
strips. The subjects covered include ski equipment, the
building and upkeep of ski trails, organization of ski
centers, ski patrol and first aid, and ski schools, as well
as the technique of ski mountaineering and ski touring.

How to Make Linoleum Blocks.

By Curtiss Sprague. Bridgman Publishers, Inc.,
Pelham, New York. $1.00.

While wood block printing is probably a better medium
of expression for the experienced artist and craftsman,
for the student linoleum has many advantages over wood
as linoleum block printing is simple, reasonable in cost,
and lends itself to many applications. This attractively
illustrated book describes all the processes involved in
this craft from tools and equipment to the practical uses
to which linoleum block printing may be put.

How to Plan a Public Relations Program.

By Mary Swain Routzahn. Social Work Publicity
Council, 130 East 22nd Street. New York. $.50.

As an aid to planning programs of public relations for
a few months or a year in advance, this bulletin attempts
to set down in convenient form questions which should
be answered and check lists of opportunities among
which choices may be made. The bulletin contains an
explanation of the terms public relations, publicity, pub-
lic information and interpretation, and has three main
objectives: (1) What Goes Into a Public Relations
Program; (2) Setting up the Program; and (3) a Sam-
ple Program Outline.

Rural Community Organization.

By Dwight Sanderson and Robert A. Polson. John
\Viley and Sons, Inc., New York. $3.00.

Although there is a lively interest in rural community
organization, there has been no book which has brought
together the experience and knowledge of the past twenty
years or more. This book will fill a real need in agri—
cultural colleges which are giving courses in rural com-
munity organization based on the scattered material avail-
able. It will also prove helpful to extension workers,
planning officials, and all interested in meeting the prob-
lems of rural life. In a chapter on Community Projects
some very pracrical suggestions are given for community
events, community enterprises, and community institu-
tions. This chapter will be of special interest to all
working to improve the community recreational life in
rural districts. Other chapters deal with Organization,
Relationships, Procedures, Leadership. Techniques for
Making Organizations Effective, and similar subjects.

Fun at Home

Kit 48. Edited by Lynn Rohrbough. COOperative
Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

Among the games and activities recommended in this
booklet for home play are Ancient Folk Games, Kentucky
Play Party Games, Tennessee Folk Songs, and Group

Games and Stunts.

Guide to the Appalachian Trail in New England.

Published by the Appalachian Trail Conference,
Washington, D. C. $1.25.

Because of the damage done to the Trail by the hur-
ricane of September, 1938, this revision of the Guide for
Connecticut, Massachusetts, Vermont and New Hamp-
shire, omits eighty-three miles of trail from Mt. Moosi-
lauke to the Barnard Gulf Road. Rather than delay the
publication of the Guide. which has been out of print
since early in 1937, it has been decided to issue a supple-
ment as soon as the section of the trail destroyed is re-
Opened and data is available. The Guide in its revised
form contains detailed information regarding the trails

and descriptive maps.

Wild Animals.

Compiled by Frances E. Clarke. The Macmillan
Company, New York. $2.50.

In this volume, one of her series of Great Wild Animal
Stories of Our Day, Miss Clarke has brought together
twenty-five stories and articles on wild animals of many
kinds. Among the contributors are William Beebe, Dal-

las Lore Sharp, Hal G. Evarts, Bill Nye, and James
Oliver Curwood.

Leisure -—- A National Issue.

By Eduard C. Lindeman. Association Press, 347
Madison Avenue, New York. $.50.

In this booklet. dedicated to “planning for the leisure
of a democratic people,” Mr. Lindeman undertakes an
exposition of the meaning of leisure in a democracy, ex-
plores the implications of a democratized leisure for
social planning, and examines the role of government in
relation to the whole. Mr. Lindeman believes that from
the WPA program there has arisen a body of facts and
experience which cannot yet be properly appraised but
which will be of great value for the future. It is the
purpose of his monograph to indicate how the experience
of the Recreation Division of the \VPA may be utilized
for future planning purposes. The booklet will be of
interest to recreation workers and others who have
worked closely with the WPA recreation program.

 

 

thcers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GusrAvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD \V. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAH BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTIIUR G. Cuntqu, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. chxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GDSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANII-zR, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. Len, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa. '

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MR3. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Wlashington. D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FRIDIRICK M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLIY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

