America Has Need of Us

FOR A TIME we did not seem to matter so much.

We thought perhaps there was too much of everything—even too much
of us—too many youth, too many of all ages.

There did not seem to be enough for us all to do. Some ten million of us were
unemployed.

Now we are all needed and more.

Tanks must be built and airplanes and bombers and ships and guns and muni-
:ion factories.

And all this quickly without a day to spare.

Hundreds of thousands of us each year for some time to come must go to camps
:o be trained as sold1ers for defense. We must be able to march long distances, to

:tand fatigue, to endure hardships. We must be in the best of physical, mental and
spiritual condition.

All men and all women in regular civilian life must back up the men in camp.
he men in defense industry. We ourselves————all of us—must be in condition to stand

‘iardship, to do our part in case there is need.

80 we ask ourselves—how can we keep from being “soft,” how may we toughen
)ur fibre, become more sturdy, harder to push as1de, how may we gain more endur-
ince, how may we bu11d ourselves up so that we may have greater value for our

ountry?

We turn to physical education leaders, to recreation workers, to educators and

:sk what shall we do so that we all may become strong and our country may be strong.
2or we know that defense now is total defense, that the whole population is needed.

hat no one can be spared.

We ask ourselves—shall we go into training, shall we eat simpler food, shall we

ive more simply, shall we keep more regular hours, shall we pay more attention to our
wealth, shall we have more regular phy31cal examlnatlons, shall we make sure that
aur recreation gives us adequate exerc1se, shall those of us who have forgotten how to

'valk take up tramping again?

Every recreation leader, every physical education leader needs at once to become an
‘ xpert in advising individuals in how to overcome softness and how to create a citi-
.en body capable of hard and effective c1tlzen serV1ce. Men and women, boys and girls

11 have their part to play.
America has need of us.

W GWr/égu/

)ECEMBER 1940

 

 

517

December

.I,___.......,‘,,,.,,- .. _.. ..» .._..“MAW—m...”....,......._....,,._.,,__,-,..‘...__ 77......_..‘A.._.

 

£

 

~* 
,' ~
4 ‘ »,

First Place Winner, Su’nior Division, Amateur Photo Contest, New York City Park Department Photo by Ben

5.18

Now That Winter's Here!

\

Each year winter sports grow in interest and variety. Every winter
new ways are discovered to make the out of doors more fascinating.
In increasing numbers people who have always spent the winter shiv-
ering in the house are finding out what fun it is to be out in the
open! If you are fortunate to be where there are ice and snow this
season, there’ll be no end to the good times winter can offer you!

 Growth 0‘:  n t er S P o rts Of these, in 57 communities there was a total par—

ticipation of 712,897 on 120 slides. In contrast to

' HE PHENOMENAL GROWTH of winter sports these figures, the year 1930 showed 89 cities with
Tparticipation is one of the outstanding de- 221 slides.

velopments in the field of recreation during In 1939 ice skating areas numbered 2,968 in 427
he last decade. Once winter recreation was limited cities, with a total participation of 16,501,089 on
arger to indoor activities. Now, however, many 1,608 areas in 217 communities. In 1930 there
.yho deplored the enforced idleness and indoor were 1,806 ice skating areas in 291 cities.
ife of “snowbound” communities boast of local Last year 64 cities reported 116 ski jumps; the
vinter sports areas and facilities which developed total participation on 65 jumps in 28 cities was
rlong with the trend toward outdoor life, skating, 68,728. Nine years ago there were said to be 59
.kiing, tobogganing, and the other diverse winter ski jumps in 39 cities.
activities. Winter carnivals are appearing in all National parks and forests and winter sports
iections of the country which have favorable cli— are a natural combination. Those areas providing
natic conditions. such facilities are attracting Winter sports enthusi-
‘ In 1939, according to the 1939 Yearbook pub- asts by the thousands. In 1938 winter sports visits
lished by the National Recreation Association, 301 to the national forests exceeded one and a quarter
lnunicipal toboggan slides million. W'eek-end or holiday

“snow trains" — even “snow

America's national parks and forests and
' ‘ winter sports are a natural combination

lwere recorded in 114 cities.

t y ' , _ A - i - 1'
’ " .

 

\ “as.” 0" A'NA .7
M “I; {3%

“K v.

_ Courtesy U. 5'. Forest Service

519

520

busses” and “snow planes,” in some instances——
take crowds regularly from metropolitan centers to

the snow country.
It has been said that no other outdoor activity

offers the variety and appeal of winter sports. A
classification of areas prepared by Edward B. Bal-
lard leads one to a fuller appreciation of the scope

of winter activities.

Winter sports areas are divided into two major
groups—those for intensive and concentrated use
and those for extensive use. Each type of area is
suitable for a specific group of activities, as shown
in the classification:

Intensive Use Areas
Requiring restricted ice surface are the following:
Speed skating
Figure skating
Recreational skating

Ice hockey
Ice shufiieboard

Ice bicycling
Curling
Requiring a comparatively fiat snow surface are such

games and races:

Ski tilting

Ski obstacle racing

Skijoring (with humans or horses for pulling)

Snowshoe racing

Requiring snow slopes with special structures:
Coasting (where no natural slope is available)
Tobogganing
Ski jumping

Requiring snow slopes without structures:

Coasting
Downhill ski running

Extensive Use Areas
Requiring a large ice surface:
Skate sailing

Ice boating
Requiring large snow—covered areas with flat or roll-

ing terrain:

Snow touring

Snowshoeing

Dog sledding

Horse sleighing

Requiring large snow-covered hilly terrain:

Downhill ski running on trails and mountain
slopes

Bobsledding

With the increased interest in winter sports
many cities with limited natural resources find it
necessary to provide places for outdoor sports.
This they are doing by the construction of skating
rinks; the Flooding or spraying of tennis courts,
playgrounds, and park spaces ;‘ the erection of to—
boggan slides and ski trails and jumps; the block—
ing of streets for coasting.

THE GROWTH OF HUNTER SPORTS

In line with this expansion, communities are
marshaling all recreational forces to provide facili-
ties for winter use. Areas with different primary
functions are being used in the winter to augment
winter sports areas. Reservoirs, for example, are
being pressed into service as skating areas. Some
years ago ,an abandoned reservoir in Reading,
Pennsylvania, was covered with a concrete roof
supported by concrete pillars. The top surface was
so constructed that it could be used during the
winter for ice skating and similar activities and
throughout the other seasons for roller skating,
tennis, volleyball, and folk dancing. This ice skat-
ing rink accommodates many skaters and provides
sufficient area for ice carniVals as well.

Multiple Use of Facilities

The procedure mentioned illustrates the prin:
ciple of multiple use of facilities, a trend which
has gained increasing momentum in recent years,
By careful planning facilities may be used in all
seasons of the year.

A battery of tennis courts, for instance, may
become a multiple use area. If these courts are
hard surfaced and are provided with portable net
posts and a six-inch curb, they are easily put tc
winter use as ice skating areas. In Newburgh,
New York, a hard-surfaced track forty feet wide
and one-sixth of a mile in length is flooded to:
competitive ice skating. (The track is also em:
ployed for roller skating and thus is in almos".
constant use throughout the year.)

Wading pools, which provide space for variouj
games such as volleyball, basketball, and paddlg
tennis, can be made suitable for skating by para
tially filling them with water.

Nature, hiking, and bridle trails may becomc
trails for skiers in the winter. Hillside areas it
parks and golf courses may be adapted for coast '
ing and simple skiing without interfering with.
their major use. (See “Golf and Country Club:'
for Winter Sports” by Chester C. Conant i1;
RECREATION, February, 1940.)

Even the natural bowl of an outdoor theate

I
has been used as a coasting area. In one city}:
band shell serves as the take-off point for a smal '
children’s slide.

Because of the concentrated use of small areas
it is almost essential that many facilities be de I
signed for multiple use.

One of the most important multiple use facili
ties is the shelter house. The building, provide:

with toilet facilities, a large recreation room, an:

SKATING—THE SPORT OF FLYING BLADES 521

The essentials of a winter use
shelter are all incorporated in

this skating shelter at Blue
Hills—large warming room: food
concession; foilef' facilities

a small kitchen for the preparation of hot food,
serves as a warming house for winter sports
devotees yet plays an important part in the
seasonal program. Its design, location, and size
must be given careful consideration. Boathouses,
picnic and camp shelters, and bathhouses can

be designed for this multiple use.

Aside from the benefits resulting from effective
Jtilization of space made possible through multi-
ple use, the economic factor is of major signifi-
zance. Properly designed, the facility simplifies
:he problems of leadership and reduces mainte-
nance costs as well. Naturally, from the stand-
ooint of construction, one multiple use structure
will replace numerous structures designed for spe-
:itic activities.

The theory of multiple use has a decided influ—
:nce on traditional architectural design. It is a
)roblem that is taxing the ingenuity of the de-
signer. It has by no means been solved and we
:an expect interesting developments as a result of
:ontemporary experiments in design and construc-
ion of multiple use facilities. When economy is
he keynote, multiple use may be the only means
If providing extensive recreation activity.

Skating—
I_ The Sport of Flying Blades

l SKATING HAS ALWAYS been a favorite winter
l 7 activity, but the recent popularity of ice shows
vith their talented stars has made the sport of fly-
ng blades a major winter recreation. “Plain skat-
2rs” who propel themselves around and around
u he rinks are always in the majority. Increased
nterest in skating, however, has added impetus
0 the fine art of figure skating, and many skaters
re graduating into this more highly skilled class.
)ther skating enthusiasts often prefer to enter
aces or to play hockey or ice baseball.
Children who have learned to skate “straight”
3 njoy playing such games as tag, crack-the-

 

Coqrtesy Boston Metropolitan Park System
Photo by F. Ellwood Allen

whip, races, and relays. A well supervised rink
provides separate areas for plain, figure, and speed
skaters, and the following games can be played
only at specified times under trained supervision.

Games on Ice

Squirrel in the Trees. Two thirds of the players
stand in couples with hands on each other’s should-
ers, forming hollow “trees” scattered about with
considerable space between them. Inside each tree
stands one of the remaining players, who is a
squirrel. One or more odd squirrels are without
trees. When the leader blows a whistle, all squir-
rels must skate to another tree and may not return
to the tree they have just left. The odd squirrels
try to secure a tree. Those left without trees be—
come the odd squirrels.

Double Circle. The group is arranged in two
concentric circles, one having one more skater than
the other. On a signal they skate in opposite di-
rections until a whistle is blown, when each player
endeavors to secure a partner from the other
circle. One player is left without a partner and
the game continues.

Statues. Arrange players along a starting line.
The leader, with back toward the players, stands
some distance in front on a finishing line. When
the leader says, “Come,” the players advance; but
when the leader gives the signal, “Stop,” then sud-
denly turns and faces the players, all must remain
immovable, like statues. Those caught moving
must return to the starting line and advance as
before. Play continues until half the players have
crossed the finishing line. The skater who crossed
the finishing line first becomes leader for the new
game, which may be varied by having players ad-

522 SKATING -— THE SPORT OF FLYING BLADES

vance by different methods SUCh as backward
skating.

Stoop Tag. One player is “It” and chases the
other skaters. They escape being tagged by squat-
ting. Any player may squat not more than five
times, after which he may resort only to skating
to keep away from “It.” When tagged, the skater
becomes “It.”

Races

Feature skating events are always popular either
for impromptu racing or community programs.
If the races are planned for a public rink they
must be carefully supervised by a trained leader
who will clear the ice for the events.

One-Skate Race. This is clever and funny. Par-
ticipants line up at the starting point with one
skate on. They cover one hundred yards half skat-
ing and half running.

Three-Legged Race. Racers go in pairs. Inside
legs of the two contestants are fastened together
with a strap while skates are put on the outside
feet. The course is one hUndred yards.

Push-Mo-Sled Race. A steering blade like an ice
boat rudder is attached either in front or back
of each sled. One person sits on the sled and
steers with the rudder while the other partner
skates and pushes the sled.

Skater and Sprinter Race. A novelty event for
ice is a fifty yard dash from a standing start be-
tween skater and sprinter. The sprinter wears
sharpened spikes and if he is a good runner, he
may win.

Skate and Bicycle Race. The skater will win but
the race will be interesting!

Broom Race. One person sits on a broom while
his partner draws him fifty yards, over the ice.
This may be run either with or without skates.

Wheelbarrow Race. Contestants with skates on
his feet holds the legs of his partner who is
pushed along with skates on his hands. The course
may be any length.

Chair Race. One boy or girl sits in a kitchen
chair while his partner pushes the chair fifty yards
over the ice. This may be played with or without
skates.

Back Skate Race. Contestants skate backwards
for a hundred yards.

Obstacle Relay. Skaters go one-fourth of the
length of the track and then over tables; another
quarter and go under tennis nets holding one foot

above the ice; after the third quarter they jump
a six—inch hurdle; the final quarter is ended by
crawling through a barrel with the head and bot-
tom out; then on to the finish. This race is usually
an event both for the spectator and the skater.

Skating in Pairs. Men and women may skate to-
gether in several colorful ice events. Skating ir.
pairs can be judged for speed, form, or fancy
skating; possibly for waltzing if there is music;
A girls’ and men’s relay race can be rUn off with
the boy skating backward one lap, handing a flag
to the girl who skates forward for the last lap,
In a snow shovel race, the man drags the girl ong
half the distance on a shovel and the girl drag;
the man the other half. For a necktie race, thi
girl helps her partner put on his tie; he skates to 
goal and back; and she helps him off with the tie
for the finish of the race.

Feature Skating Events. Other feature races cat.
be planned with hoops, potatoes, or tin cans. 
costumed “animal” parade with two skaters f01
each animal is always colorful.

Skating Proficiency Test

Skating tests for skill can be used by rink super;
visors in classifying playground groups, or the)
may be included in the competitive events of 2
winter carnival or silver skate derby.

A suggested test includes:

‘1. Cut outer edge, five strokes with each foot.
2. Skull backward, feet parallel, for fifty feet.

3. Cut circle backward, cross cut, within twenty-fiw
foot circle.

4. Cut circle forward, one foot (right or left) Withii
ten—foot circle.

5. Make half turn right or left, from forward to back
ward direction.

Skating Meets

The new popularity of ice skating has becomr.
nation wide since the introduction of indoor ant,
artificial ice rinks. Skating meets, once sponsorec,‘
only by northern communities, have developeci
into annual skating tournaments and silver skate
derbies in many parts of the country.

The following competitive ice program an
ranged by the Westchester County Recreatiog
Commission is typical of many community meets},

Preliminary events were held during the
morning:

10:00 220 yard race for boys under 14 years of age ~'

10 :20 220 yard race for girls under 16 years of age

10 :40 440_yard race for men
11 :00 440 yard race for women

HIKING AND SNOW-’SHOEING 523

11:20 Mile relay for boys
11:40 Mile relay for girls

In the afternoon the final events were sched-

3. led: '
12:30 220 yard race for boys under 14 years of age
12:50 220 yard race for girls under 16 years of age
1:10 440 yard race for men
t 1:30 440 yard race for women
1:50 Mile county championship for men
 2:10 Half-mile county championship for women
.. 2:30 Mile relay for men
,l 2 :50 Mile relay for women

j A suggested ice carnival program would include
l eneral skating in costume, general waltzing, lig-
_. re skating, grand march and award of costume
’l rizes, comic skaters, group skating or drill, bar-
l :1 jumping and games, speed races, and crowning

‘ f carnival queen.
I

Skate Sailing

» EXperienced skaters enjoy carrying a sail to
yelp them along over the ice. This sport is best
l‘lrried out where there is a large surface of ice
t s on a river, bay, or lake. The equipment is not
a (pensive to secure, and it does not require an ex-
l :ptionally expert skater to enjoy skate sailing.
‘ he sail is made of duck or unbleached sheeting
ith a bamboo frame and varies in size and shape
:cording to the locality in which it is used. It
.ay be made for the use of one person or for
:veral, and is controlled by ropes attached to the
. .i1 and the frame on the same principle as a sail-
j )at. It is much less dangerous and much easier
I “come about” if you carry your sail rather than

t we it fastened to your person.
Additional information on the building of skate
ils can be obtained from “Practical Suggestions
' gr Making and Using Skate Sails,” issued by the
gate-Sailing Association of America, 22 Baldwin

- lace, Bloomfield, New Jersey.

Safety on Skates

,' Safety first should be the watchword of all
aters whether they are in a public park, back-
er rink, or frozen lake. Segregation of plain,

'- ;ure, and speed skaters on all rinks is advisable.
is important also to prohibit Snap the Whip and
her dangerous games, except under strict super—

:sion. A receptacle should be provided to keep

l fuse off the ice, since a small piece of cloth or
per may often cause serious falls.

The Red Cross lists the following safety rules

r natural skating areas:

1. Know the ice. There is more truth than poetry in
the rhyme:

One inch, keep off!
Two inches, one may;
Three inches, small groups;
Four inches, 0. K.

2. Beware of “white or salt water ice,” particularly if
a swift current flows beneath. Black ice is the only
solid kind and the only ice to trust.

. Best of all make a pond to order.

. Do not skate alone on woodland lake or stream.

. When spring melting sets in, quit the ice at the first
sign of weakening.

6. When crossing a stretch of ice of unknown thick-
ness, carry a pole about ten or twelve feet long
which can be used if you should go through. Ends
of the pole can 'be placed across the hole and used
as a support on which to climb out.

7. Life buoys should be placed at deep water skating
places.

8. Skaters should take an inventory of available rescue
materials before beginning to skate—boats, lines,
boards, fence rails, ladders, clothesline.

9. A coil of 36” clothesline flfty to a hundred feet long
can be carried with a minimum of inconvenience
when slung across the shoulder.

who.)

Hiking and Snowshoeing

E ARE BEGINNING to discover that hiking is
Wone of the best sports for crisp winter days
when a white world invites young and old to play.
There are always many things to do while tramp—
ing and walking through the snowy woods. You
will soon discover that Nature is not hidden; she
is merely showing a different face. It is easy to
recognize trees by their leaves, but can you iden—
tify them by their twigs and bark? Pack up some
water, a compass, hand axe, cooking utensils,
knife, food, and matches and spend a day getting
acquainted with winter.

Try playing Tree Cribbage as you go along.
Divide your group into two teams, each taking one
side of the road and gaining a point towards the
winning score for each tree correctly identified.
Nature lovers will also enjoy playing this with
tracks of animals and birds.

Birds’ nests are easily seen in the winter, for
they stand out sharply against the bare branches
of shrubs and trees. Now is the time to study
their structure and location. It is safe to collect
them at this season because they are deserted.

Fungi, lichens, and mosses are visible in the
winter woods. How many different kinds can you
find? Have you noticed the leaf scars and buds
on bare tree twigs? Snow crystal forms make
good study material for a winter hike. With hand

524 HIKING AND SNOPVSHOEING

lens you will see many variations of a six-pointed
pattern. Remember to look up at the clouds, as
you go along. Do you know the weather signs
they indicate? ”

The winter sky will make your night hike more

 

Courtesy Department of Recreation,
Lo: Angeles County, California

interesting. Choose a moonless night to watch the
stars and major constellations. Bring along 2
camera and pse a long time exposure to show tilt
movement'of the earth as it turns, causing the
stars to inscribe an arc on the film. Climax the
evening by telling stories of the constellations
around your camp fire.

Hiking Precautions. Provide a canteen or ther-
mos bottle of water.

If you must drink water along the way, boil it
for five minutes, or put in one or two Halazong
tablets and let it stand for thirty minutes. ”

Consult the weather man and try to avoid a
snow storm. "

If you are caught in a storm, do not try to
reach your destination. It may be safer to take
shelter under a snow bank or dig a hole in the
snow large enough so that the persons seeking
refuge will not come in contact with the snow.
The air in the hole will help conserve body heat

Clothing must be adequate. A good hiking outy
tit includes woolen shirt, sweater, blunt toe shoe;
with heavy soles, woolen socks, and a walking
stick.

Tracking and Trailing

This game can be played in the woods while
hiking, or in some large open space where there
is plenty of freshly fallen snow. The trail makers
are given a start of from ten to twenty minute}.
and the followers try to trace them by their foot;
prints in the snow before the end of the trail is
reached. Obstacles add to the fun. There may be
blind trails in which the trailmakers turn off the
trail a short distance, retrace their steps and con;
tinue as before. The double trail, which goes in
two directions and then forms into one again, re—
quiring the followers to go over logs and faller
trees, makes the game more complicated. Nighij'
tracking with candles in tin cans is fun for chil-.
dren or adults, and hare and hound chases through}
the snow are always popular. '

Snowshoeing !

Long tramps through the country will be moth;
fun if you wear snowshoes, especially where th}l
snow is very deep and fresh. Photographers ant:
lovers of wild life can use the “webs” to find nevu
paths through untraveled snow lands. To thtl
novice, snowshoeing may look difficult, but it 
neither tiring or hard to learn, and one will travel
farther and with less fatigue on a pair of snow,-

'I'OBOGGANING AND COASTING 525

shoes than on the bare ground of summer. W'hen
;imple skill with snowshoes is acquired some novel
:vents may be introduced. Baseball, basketball or
)ushball can all be adapted for play on snowshoes.
a W. Austin White in The B 00k of Winter Sports
.ays, “There are plenty of stunts that you can try
:y way of variety--—stunts that you should be able
0 execute properly before you qualify as an ex-
nert. You should be able to climb nimbly up one
ide of a six strand barbed wire fence and hop off
an the other side without landing on your head,
tearing your clothes or breaking a snowshoe.”

He also suggests that the snowshoer should be
:.ble to walk on logs—not edging along inch by
'1ch, but pigeon-toeing straight across. When try-
jug this for the first time, it is best to avoid logs
'vhich span water. Sliding down hill or jumping
[in snowshoes causes too much strain on the shoes

.lnd should be avoided. Sleds and skis are made
u or these activities. All-day tramping parties and
lnoonlight hikes are becoming more and more a
lrart of the winter sports schedule and they will
le much more fun when you have learned how to
. ise a pair of snowshoes.

Tobogganing and Coasting

 T THE SIGN of the first snow, boys and girls
. 1 bring out their sleds and begin to improvise

tills and slides, and toboggan enthusiasts don
' .eavy clothes and hunt up the
.learest toboggan slide. In in-
lreasing number communities
laroughout the country are
ltoviding coasting areas for
hildren and are con-
tructing toboggan
lides, long and short,
or the toboggan en-
| 1 iusiasts.

:

 

Construction of
' Toboggan Slide

l There is great varia-
lon in the length of to-
ioggan slides, depend-
lg on local conditions
rid topography. They
lay vary from a com-
aratively short dis—
ane to nearly a mile

1 length.

p-

 

I

l .

Old canvas hose, split vertically and
spread over the edges of the trough of
the slide. then tacked downI otter ad-
ditional protection to the tobogganist 0f natural eirll‘th- Make the

 

In many cities it is possible to use a natural
slope in building a toboggan slide, but frequently
it is necessary to support the slide by means of
framework. The following factors should be con-
sidered in toboggan slide construction:

The slide should face toward the north or north-
east to avoid the direct rays of the sun, thus les-
sening the possibility of the ice melting. Proba-
bly in no other recreation facility is orientation so
important.

Use good wood in the construction of the tobog-
gan slide, making sure that the grain of the wood
runs downhill. Plane all edges and corners to
avoid slivers. As additional protection, one com-
munity has utilized old canvas fire hose split verti-
cally, spread over the edges of the trough, and
tacked down. Treat all woodwork in the slide
thoroughly with creosote every year; this pre-
serves the wood and serves as a disinfectant.

Build the entire slide straight, for the toboggan
may go over the side on a curve.

Make the trough two inches wider than the to-
boggan (inside width twenty' inches at bottom and
twenty-two inches at top) throughout the entire
length of the slide. If the trough is too wide the
toboggan may lurch from side to side.

Make the sides of the trough high enough so
that the toboggan will not jump the track.

If trestle work is necessary, it must be strong
and solid to avoid vibration. Crossbars must be
close enough together to avoid strain on the
bottom boards.

It is wise to continue the
sides of the chute on the out-
run or to construct a trough

outrun level, thereby
preventing the toboggan
from upsetting. The
runway should be clear
of trees, poles. boulders.
and any other obstruc-
tions. Since weather and
slide conditions affect
the distance toboggans
will travel, it may be
necessary to build a
slight upgrade at the
end of the slide to pre-
vent the toboggans from
going too far. Straw
may be used on the
outrun to decrease the

Photo by F. Ellwood Allen

526 TOBOGGANING AND COASTING

speed of the toboggans. The approach to
the platform at the top of the slide should
be a gradual slope, cleated runway or wide,
stairs. The platform should be of ample
size and protected by railings.

The ice for the sliding surface may be
prepared in several different ways. Ac—
cording to one method, slush (made by
mixing snow and water) is spread over
the entire slide to a thickness of one inch.
Following a second method, the trough is
filled with snow beaten down into a two-
inch layer, then sprinkled with water. Of
course the best possible sliding surface is
freshly fallen snow packed in the trough.
The slide should be inspected every night.
Keep the ice in good condition by patch-
ing with slush beaten smoothly into any holes.

For detailed suggestions on the construction of
toboggan slides see “A Toboggan Slide,” RECRE—
ATION, December, 1932; and “The Design and
Construction of Toboggan Chutes” by Samuel P.
Snow, The American School and University, 1939.

A Few Hints on Safety

The toboggan slide should be carefully super—
vised at all times. Use of the slide should be per-
mitted only when the starter is on hand to release
the clutch. The starter makes sure that toboggans
are not overloaded and that one toboggan does not
start until the one ahead has left the chute at the
bottom and can be unloaded before the arrival of
the next toboggan. Sometimes traffic lights are
used to regulate starting as at Mt. Hood Park,
Melrose, Massachusetts.

There is an element of danger in tobogganing,
for a toboggan can be extremely dangerous in the
hands of inexperienced riders on an ordinary
slope. Therefore, toboggan enthusiasts are wise
to heed a word of caution; if it is absolutely im—
possible to reach a well-designed slide, select a
slope which is not too steep and which has been
thoroughly cleared of all obstructions.

Coasting

One of the winter activities most popular with
children is coasting. Of course the ideal place for
coasting is on a natural slope—which is rarely to
be found in neighborhood playgrounds. In a great
many of the larger park areas, reservations, and
golf courses, however, such slopes are available.

The site of the slide should face north or north-
east. It is desirable, if the topography warrants, to

 

w‘

(tam

( “1., z . w 
i. w... W...“ M. .. ,. ,..  .. . M. v ' .. 39m“ :.-  , _. -; g  m ,.
, ..__.n,..__1“3°__m&.‘...ag§gki add“; .14. ‘H “  . 7_.- _:.;.    .1...

Reading. Pa.. is one of the cities
to set aside streets for coasting

divide the area into two or more sections: a slight
grade for the youngest coasters, a greater slope foij
larger children, and a steep incline for youth,-
adults, and experienced coasters.

Closing Streets for Coasting. If such a natural
slope can not be made available, the children will
undoubtedly find their own incline, and in spite
of traffic hazards the street is still the most popug
lar and often the only available sliding place. In
a number of cities recreation departments or
similar groups make arrangements with the police
or other city departments to shut off certain streets.
for several hours daily.

Streets to be set aside for coasting must be
carefully selected. They should be side streets 01]
which traffic is not heavy. They should not cross
a much traveled street.

Provision should be made for an easy stop at the,
end of the run. This may be done by clearing a}
strip of thirty feet on more at the end of the slide!"
and covering it with ashes so that the coasters wili'
make a complete stop before they reach the bare
riers. Wooden horses are usually used for bar-'1'
riers. Red lanterns should be suspended fron-
them at night.

It is absolutely essential that some individual bi
charged with the responsibility of supervising thi
activity on streets closed for coasting. Otherwis:
such a project may be exceedingly dangerous.

Following are some of the duties of sucl;

supervisors :
1. Be on the job. You are there to prevent injurie
and keep order. '

 

THE WHITE ART OF SKIING 527

2. Be courteous. You can get cooperation from prop-
erty owners and drivers if you can see their side.

3. Be helpful. Make sure that the smaller children get
a chance to slide. Eject all troublemakers.

4. Barriers and red lights should be put up at the
start of a sledding period and put away after the
period has ended.

Coasters should go down on the right side of the
slide and back up on the other side.

2
i 6. You are responsible for all equipment and for the
'- safety of those participating on the slide.

7. Cover the entire area; watch all the children; make
“Safety First” your motto.

A-f‘m' ‘-‘-I-I—-4A-.t_' ‘

511

l
i Artificial Playground Coasting Areas. In the case
Upf comparatively level topography it is necessary
|o provide an artificial slide for children. A slide
.‘mly a few feet high erected on a playground will
)rovide fun for hundreds of children. On more
i han one playground the roof of the shelter house
‘is used as a platform or starting place for the
Iplide. Do not make the slide too high, however.

4 Allow an incline about three times as long as the

sleight of the jumping off place. The slide should

';e at least four to six feet wide and if boards are

used they are laid crosswise. Trestle work under-
":1eath supports the structure.

'| Most slides level off toward the bottom so that

Roasters come on to the outrun more smoothly.
Il‘he outrun consists of a clearing on the ground
-.t the end of the ride.

i

An ice surface can be secured by sprinkling and
esprinkling the snow until it is smooth.

Tin Can Slides

If sleds are not available a tin can Slide is even
iore fun. A tin pan, refuse or ash can cover with
, ill handles removed will provide a good ride down

{ny well packed snowbank. After a few single
‘lides, riders may line up their tin cans, hitch on
3 one another, and make their own toboggan.
"ince the equipment is easily obtained, this kind
f sliding is very popular. The only other equip-
lent needed is warm clothes and a love of snow,
flince riders end up frequently in the snowbank.

l

- :' Other sledding events are fun for hilly or level
hound and round out the activity.

l

.
.

.s

‘i‘

 

 

Races and Activities

l
Push and Coast. The rider receives a running

- l . . o
’ (ush from 1118 teammate up to the starting line.

;i rhe distance is measured from the line to the for-

l lard point of the sled when it stops.

” i Swimming Race (Crab Race). The rider lies on

his stomach on the sled and pushes it forward
with his hands. Use of feet is forbidden.

Shuttle Relay. Teams of nine boys, one rider
and eight pushers, take part. The sled must come
to a stop and be turned around at each end of the
straightaway. (The race is run under regular
shuttle relay rules and it is not complete until all
boys are back to their original starting point. Dis—
tance: minimum, twenty—five yards; maximum,

fifty yards.)

Towing. One partner is on the sled, the other
pulls him toward a goal. The sled is pulled twenty—
live yards, is turned ground and brought back.

Sled Parades. Decorated sleds will make as ef-
fective a parade as doll carriages. Interest may be
added to such a parade by dividing the sleds into
classes and giving small awards for the most
elaborate, most beautiful, and most fantastic sleds.

The White Arl: of Skiing

SKIING as A WINTER SPORT has been growing
steadily in popularity during the last few
years. Every winter more and more people have
become interested in the “white art,” which pro-
vides enjoyable exercise in the. open air and a
winter opportunity for exploring the surrounding
country. Trends in the manufacture and sale of

 

k 7 faith" Lew-Sat. h

Courtesy Hiram College

528 THE WHITE ART OF SKIING

 

equipment indicate the sudden increase. Ameri—
cans spent $4I7,000 for skis and snowshoes in
1935. Figures quoted by John R. Tunis in Sport
for the Fun of It indicate that skiers are now
spending about $20,000,000 in a single year for
skis and accessories, ski clothing, transportation,
and lodging at winter sports areas.

Much of the new popularity is due to the reali-
zation by the public that recreational skiing does
not require a high degree of skill, is not extremely
dangerous, nor essentially expensive. The sport
is suited to all ages, and the novice will find fun
in learning if he remembers that he cannot imi-
tate a veteran speed—champion or jumper.

Downhill skiing is the easiest and most quickly
learned skill. A small practice slope with a long
level outrun is best for the beginner. Cross coun-
try skiing requires practice and training before
the newcomer graduates into a skilled endurance
skier, but it is especially appropriate for older
skiers whose interests have turned toward less
strenuous forms of competitive skiing. Jumping
on skis is a dangerous game which should be left
to experts and professionals.

Slalom racing can be a healthy substitute for
cross country, since it replaces the dangerous rocks
and trees of a rough countryside with carefully
arranged Hag poles on a scientifically planned
course.

Necessary equipment for skiing can be inex—
pensive and is easy to secure. Modern skis are

Ski run and tow-
ing facilities at
Berthoucl Pass in

Arapaho National
Park. Colorado

nearly fiat pieces;
of ash, oak, beech,
spruce or hickory,
pointed and turn?
ed up about one
foot at the toe:
Their length is,
usually the dis—i.
tance the wearer
can reach with his,
hand Upraiseda
For girls the distance is to the wrist ; for men to
the base of the fingers.

 

,, A .....-.,.. VE:¢\.MF_aw:'-W~zuy  

Courtesy U. 3. Forest Service

Races

Feature races on a ski course are always fun
and may be planned for a day’s outing or for a
community program:

Skiioring Race. Contestants are divided into two'
groups, one of boys and one of girls. One player”
stands on the ski (rider) and is pulled by two.
other members of the group (horses). The team?
crossing the goal line first wins.

Tandem Ski Race. Two people use one pair of?
skis at the same time. Six couples race.

Ski Tilting with Mops is an amusing event. Two>
men, each armed with a mop and wearing skis,-
face each other. They try to overthrow each.
other with the mops. -’

Ski Jumping is thrilling and exciting, but it is‘,‘
not usually sponsored by recreation departments:
except for experts or professionals.

Obstacle Ski Race. A barrel with the t0p and}:

I bottom knocked out is placed on the track. About, 5

fifteen feet from the barrel, a mound of snow ten, '
feet long and two feet high is piled up. Beyond,
this a second barrel is placed. At the command to,
go, the contestants start. The participant on reach- 1
ing the barrel kicks off his skis, shoves them3
through the barrel, pulling them out at the other}
end. Putting them on again, he crawls over the.

SNOW AND ICE GAMES AND ACTIVITIES 529

ground, and when he reaches the barrel on the
i;her side shoves skis through again. The finish
 the race is about ten feet from the last barrel,
Taking the entire race approximately fifty feet.

, ; Ski Contests

 Competitive and colorful skiing events are often
021C basis of a community winter carnival program.
hese events are appropriate for any winter sports
‘ skiing meet:
100 yard dash
‘ 220 yard dash
fl mile cross country run

Obstacle race
Relay race

' {i proficiency contest:
a. Telemark swing to right and left, Christiana swing
to right and left
b. Letter S turns, turning first in one direction and
then in the other
0 2. Keeping within course marked by flags
d. Snow plowing
'{l jumping contest:
a. For form and distance
b. For distance only

Safety for Skiers

The sudden increase in the number of skiers on
. 11s and slopes has made the problem of safety
Ir skiers a Very serious one. Beginners Who
’ awd the courses are a real danger to themselves
' -d to others. The foresters writing in Forest
. strings issued by the Department of Agriculture
~;ist that only a complete observance of ski-trail
.i Iquette, a greater interest in controlled skiing,
d a widespread recognition by individuals of
air personal limitations and responsibilities will
ng about improvements in the safety records of

, r ski-grounds.

"

 

They suggest the following formula for be-
r if! Iners I

it. Take it easy at first and enjoy yourself.

3. Feel your way along. Don’t take dares until you are

" sure of the course and your ability.
3. Stay on the practice slopes away from spectators.

Several rules for skiing have been suggested by
atsef Lanz, winter sports expert:

. Use proper equipment and correctly sized skis.

' I. Plenty of warmth about the lower part of the body:

light clothing with room for action on the upper
part of the body.

I‘ . Shoe soles should be stiff, since flexible soles make
skiing more dichult.

l. Hood and nose pads will protect face, ears, and
nose. If you wear goggles, take them off when mak—
ing a downhill run.

5. “Take it Easy l” Excess speed causes most skiing
injuries. Don’t take silly chances.

6. When going uphill keep well to one side so that you
will not interfere with those coming down. If
caught on the trail, stand still, do not try to dodge.

7. Jumping should be attempted only by experts.

Facilities for Skiing

The American School and College, 1939, con-
tains detailed articles on facilities for skiing:
“Downhill Ski Trails” by Robert W. Vincent;
“The Construction of Ski Jumps” by Lawrence
E. Briggs; and “Design and Construction of Ski
Tows” by Paul S. Putnam.

Snow and Ice Games and
Activities

HERE ARE MANY WAYS to have fun in winter

without resorting to expensive equipment or
without acquiring a sports skill. Many of the fol-
lowing games will be equally appropriate for chil-
dren or adults, large or small groups. The only
properties needed are warm but loose clothing and
plenty of snow.

Snow Games

Snow Battles. This is great fUn for children or
adults. Players can be divided into sides with a
captain for each side who directs the procedure.
There should be regulations for the number and
kind of snowballs and the size of forts. Loopholes
in the sides are convenient for throwing balls from
inside, and steps on the inner wall aid the defend-
ers in climbing to the top of the fort. Some play-
ers like to make shields of a barrel head or other
material and fasten it to the arm with a strap.
This may have a shelf or rack on which a supply
of snowballs is placed.

Often a gymnasium class will think it fun to
challenge another class for such a battle. A date
must be set in advance so that the players will
come dressed properly for their outdoor encounter.

Follow the Leader. This game can be adapted to
a large or small area and is often made more
amusing by a clever leader who requires others to
do stunts in the snow, step in his tracks, shake
snow from overhanging branches, pass snowballs
down the line or turn somersaults in the snow.

Snowball Bombardment. This game is very pop-
ular with lumbermen. Two sides line up a good

530 SNOW AND ICE GAMES AND ACTIVITIES

throw’s length apart. Each player sets a pole in
the snow in front of him and sticks a hard snow-
ball on top of it; he then makes a pile of snow-
balls, placing them at his feet. Each side throws
snowballs at the balls mounted on the poles of
the other side. Meanwhile every man does his
best to save his own. The side which has a rea—
sonably large fraction of a ball, if not a whole one
left, wins the game.

Snow Dodge Ball. Track two large concentric
circles in the snow about fifteen feet apart. The
"group is divided into two equal teams. One team
scatters within the inner circle while the other
team scatters in the area be—
tween the two circles. The
center team makes snow-—
balls and throws them at
the players on the rim who
try to dodge. While dodg-
ing the balls, rim players
may not run outside the
outer circle, and snowball-
throwing players may not
run outside the inner circle.

If a player is hit, he joins
.the team in the center of
the circle. The last player
in the outer rim wins. Then
the teams change places,
with the circle team going
inside and the snowball
throwers coming out to the
rim. A variation of this
game is to let the outer cir—
cle make snowballs and try
to hit those on the inside.

Snow Leap Frog. Instead
of merely jumping over the
backs of players, try crawling between their feet,
or alternate the two procedures. If done in deep,
soft snow this will be difficult and will provide
more fun. Let the players balance snowballs on
the backs of stooping players and have others
clear the balls while leaping.

Pushball. Let the boys play against the girls.
Roll up a snowball that is three or four feet in
diameter, the larger the better. Now tramp two
clear parallel lines twenty to thirty feet apart for
the two goal lines. Roll the ball midway between
them. The girls get on one side of the ball and
boys on the other. Each team tries to push the
ball across the home line of the other. The team
which succeeds wins.

 

Sculptors of Hibbing, Minnesota, made
this figure of Will Rogers which rose
twenty-three feet above the ground

Pushball can also be played with two large snow-
balls. Teams come at a signal from opposite sides
of the field and try to push one ball over their
opponents’ line. Players must use their own dis-
cretion as to when to push their own ball and when
to dash back to hamper the opponents. Each time
a ball crosses an end line a point is scored and the
teams begin again from the middle.

NOTE: Other snow games will be found in the article
“A Novel Backyard Winter Carnival” on page 544.

Snow Sculpture ,

Although the crude snowman in the front yard
is still a perennial favorite;
the sculpturing of stream-i
lined figures from snow has:
now become a fine art. Sub;
jects for modeling include;
animals, prominent persons;
legendary heroes and hero}
ines, and comic strip char}
acters. 1‘
The figure may be carvte
or chipped out with 
hatchet from a large pile ol
snow which has been allow;
ed to freeze. Since this typt
of snow statue must suppor}
its own weight, however.
the variety of subject;
which can be modeled it
this way is limited. {I

A second and better:
method employs slush (mad;
by filling a pail of watt;
with snow) and a frame:
work of boards and wire ti:
_ support the figure. A tal,
upright piece of wood and a short crosspiece anl
sufficient for a snow man with two arms. The:
more pretentious projects require more elaborate.
frame works. Materials required for making
figure are a framework of board and wire, a largj
bucket of. slush, a dipper, a shovel, paddle, trowdt
knife, and hatchet, and kalsomine and a brush if
you wish to paint the statue.

f

 

(For more specific directions on snow sculpturinug 
“Introducing the Snow Artist," a bulletin available fro}
the National Recreation Association. Price 5 cents.) f

 

Snow Modeling Contests. Snow modeling cogi
tests are always good for playground groups. Th
snow figures can be udged according to 
height, appearance, correct proportions, originalit

SNOW AND ICE GAMES AND ACTIVITIES 531.

of design and difficulties overcome, such as ac-
:umulation of snow or weather conditions.

When having a community snow modeling con—
azest, it is wise to arrange for various age divisions.
Modeling in individual front yards is preferable

1::0 working in a central park because of the amount
r of materials which must be hauled and the neces-
. :;ity for a city clean-up of boards and wire when
ihe models melt in the spring. Statues will also
:how Up much better if displayed individually.
. it is best to set a deadline for the construction
l vork. If there are many contestants, ask each one
"0 submit a picture of his model and let the judges
|inake their selections from these. Photographs
évill also be convenient if weather conditions are
groor.

Minneapolis has used both the central park and

Leighborhood park method of conducting her
; nodeling contests. In the latter type of contest,
oristrict winners compete for the city champion-
.thip. Groups as well as individuals may be en—
youraged to enter the contest. In Duluth, Minne—
.‘ota, prizes are awarded in each of their three
,tivisions: snow statues, snow houses or huts, and
lgriginal figures.

‘I

' Ice Games

. Many winter and summer games can be adapted
nar playing on an ice field. Basketball, volleyball,
gaseball, and croquet are good games for a rink
With a few changes in rules. Baseball is especially
[filled to winter playing, either with or without
pxates. Ice hockey and curling are, of course, old
I g'inter favorites. (Rules for snow hockey which
.l played with old brooms, a soccer ball, and In-
ian clubs are available from the National Recre—
':ion Association.)

 

l

' Curling. This popular old Scottish game has
ircently attained new popularity in various parts
4 f this country. It is a favorite with the men, and
lcommunity tournament will arouse great interest
. -'ld enthusiasm. Although it was originally an
o 'Jtdoor sport, weather conditions have led curlers
,. , '. different sections of the United States and Can-
ula to construct several indoor rinks or alleys.
. Four men play on each
_ ' rink” or team and the best
- layer and leader of each
_ :am is called the “skip.”
; ' he object of the game is to
_- lznd the stones down the ice
illley or “sheet” toward the
opposite goal. Each sheet is

Q

"But. iovial and ruddy as winter sports
are' they have a side which is more or
less lacking in the sports of summer. . . .
They have a lonely sideI a stillI reflec-
tive side which for some of us adds im-
measurably to their charm." —Waltet
Pritchard Eaton in WintetS ports Verse.

I 38 feet from hack to hack, a hack being a small
board at each goal on which the man about to curl
the stone puts his foot.

Curling is actually a combination of bowling
and shufHeboard. In front of each hack are three
large concentric circles, and each player attempts
to spin the stone from one end of the sheet as
nearly to the center of the circles at the other end
as possible. Each player has two shots with the
stones, which are made from granite shaped like
flattened balls, and are slid on the rim of a cup
hollowed out in the bottom. Handles enable play-
ers to lift and curl- the forty-pound stones.

After all eight men have had their shots, the
stones are measured as in quoits and the score
announced. The players start first at one end of
a sheet and then reverse. Fourteen “ends” or
trips up and down the sheet constitute a match.
The skip usually plays last, since special skill is
needed to knock accumulated enemy stones out of
the rink and put one’s own inside. The men all
have brooms and after a stone starts sliding they
sweep away the slush in front of it at the com-

mand of the skip.

lce Shuffleboard. This winter game is similar
to curling but has some advantages over that game.
It requires neither expensive equipment nor the
strength necessary to wield heavy weights and
may therefore be played by women as well as men.

On a smooth piece of ice live circles are marked
out having a common center, the inmost circle
with a radius of six inches, and each outer one a
radius of six inches larger than that of the circle
next nearest the center. The spaces between the
lines are numbered from one to live ; the highest
number is at the center.

From a line twenty-live feet away round disks
are propelled by long cues toward this target. The
cues are similar to those used in pool, but pointed
sticks may be used. Disks may be purchased or
made of wood. Each side shoots its disks as near
the center of the circles as possible and tries to
knock its opponents’ disks away. The game is
generally played with four people, two on each

side, and the players have three disks each.
When all the disks have

been played, each side is
credited with the number of
points indicated by the spaces
in which the disks lie. Addi—
tional rules in scoring may be
adopted; for example, one
of the spaces between circles

532 FESTIVALS AND CARNIVALS

may be marked “five off.” Each side will then try
to avoid that Space and force its opponents into it.

Ice Races

Many racing games can be played on ice with—
out the use of skates. Some hour during the week
may be set aside for these games and the rink
supervisor should clear the ice of skaters at this
tune.

Sl<ateless Race. For fifty yards, racers go
through the motions of skating without skates.

Scooter Race. Runners are attached to the
wheels of a scooter and cleats are put on one of
the players’ feet. The races covers one hundred

yards. If ice scooters are available they may
be used.

Wheelbarrow Race. One racer has two blocks
of wood, one on each hand. His partner holds
his ankles and they go forward in wheelbarrow
position for fifty yards.

Hobby Horse Race. Participants hold brooms
between their legs and run fifty yards.

Broom and Chair Race. Both of these types can

also be run OPE on an icy held without skates.

Games for Ice and Snow, a bulletin of games which
can be played on ice or in the snow without any addi-

tional equipment, is available from the National Recrea-
tion Association upon request.

Ice Painting

Painting on ice can be a fascinating winter proj-
ect for individuals or community groups. Remove
the glass from a window or picture frame and lay
the frame fiat on the ground. Pack the frame
tightly with snow, wet it, and let it freeze over-
night. This will produce a glassy surface of ice.
Mix a thick paste of kalsomine and paint a land—
scape or anything desired on the surface of the
ice. When the picture is finished, bring the frame
into a heated room just long enough to let the

colors blend a little. Then take it out and let
freeze again.

“Stained Glass” Windows

The painting techniqUe is slightly different in
making art windows. Roll putty or art clay into
long strings one—quarter inch thick and outline a
scene on a pane of glass, placing the clay tightly
against the glass along the division of colors. A
colored design or drawing may be placed under
the glass for copy work. Water colored with dye
is run into the spaces formed by the clay walls

and allowed to freeze. Stained glass windows
have been used effectively in snow buildings.

Festivals and Carnivals

SKATING, ICE GAMES, sports and all the other
activities mentioned can be combined into a
winter festival which may be the culmination of a
season or winter sports. These festivals may range
from neighborhood carnivals of a day of winter
fun to an elaborate program extending over a.
week, or from a day of festivities covering onel
winter activity to an elaborate frolic for every
kind of winter sport. i

Organization and Planning

The degree of success of a winter carnival de-
pends on how carefully plans are made and on
how well the committees functiOn. According to
organization suggestions sent out by the Extension
Department, St. Louis County (Minnesota)
Rural Schools, the actual program planning should
be the responsibility of a general committee. This
committee should be composed of a general chair-
man, several active community leaders, and the;
chairmen of the carnival subcommittees. (The
number and duties of the subcommittees vary ac-=
cording to the type of carnival planned and the‘
local problems.)

The general committee outlines the plans, draws '
up the program, and sets dates and places for}:
events. In planning the committee considers
these factors:

What should be brought by
committee members,

Facilities available
Date, schedule of events
Who may attend guests, and officials
Expected attendance Prizes
Transportation and parking Supplies and equipment
Traffic and safety regula- Selection of committees and.
tions officials '
Refreshments Emergencies (severe l
Program weather, accidents)

There should be a joint meeting of all commit;
tees approximately a week before the event in
order to coordinate plans and complete the final

arrangements. '

Dartmouth Winter Carnival. The Dartmoutlt
Winter Carnival is an excellent example of de
tailed planning and coordination. One man head!
the organization-“the director. He selects a gen”-

FESTIVALS AND CARNH 'ALS 533

 eral committee, each member of which directs a

3 separate department. These are the departments:
& Competitions. The duty of this committee is the organi-
zation and management of all competitive skiing and
skating events. Within this department are:
Clerk of Office (in charge of printed materials)
Clerks of Courses (in charge of the running of

events)
, Property Manager (in charge of competition equip-
! ment)
Medical Advisor (in charge of providing first aid
equipment)

Director of Officials (in charge of securing starters,
timers, recorders, checkers, scorers, referees, judges)

Ii theatrical review staged on an artificial skating pond.

’ Police. This committee handles the traiiic and the crowds,

l patrols the courses, and takes tickets.

'Features. Another name for the features committee is

i the decorations committee. The members are in charge
of the construction of the large Carnival snow statue as
well as the promotion and judging of the campus snow
modeling contest.

Entertainment. The duties of this committee are housing
and feeding guests and oH'icials and running an infor-
mation bureau.

{Publicity The future of Carnival rests on good publicity.
iEquipment. The equipment committee must provide the
necessary tools and equipment for all departments.
,Personnel. The responsibility for volunteer workers be-

' longs to those in charge of personnel.

.Members at Large. These individuals must be ready for

. emergency duty in any department.

 

 

I The general committee meets for the first time
l‘in the early spring to discuss the reports of previ-
‘lous Carnival directors and to consider the main
f theme of Carnival. The general chairman then

ibegins to work with each director, helping him
determine the extent of his program; by Novem-
'tt?er the directors must have their plans fairly well
formulated. Intensive planning takes place from
November to Carnival time. Finally, after Carni-
tval is over the general committee meets once more
. ‘20 record mistakes and discuss them for the bene-

‘it of next year’s Carnival.

 

 

i Important Details. There are many items which
icontribute to the success of the winter carnival,

for details loom large in importance.

' An information desk is advisable. In addition,

. Earge placards relating the program and time and
')lace of events should be placed at strategic points
on the grounds.

| If there is no toboggan chute, designated places
‘ lil’lOllld be set aside for tobogganing and skiing;

too often a good slope attracts skiers and tobog-
- 'I.;an enthusiasts at the same time with resultant
hazards.

 

| t

It is well to have warming house facilities; it
necessary, erect temporary windbreaks or a lean-
to. Large bonfires will be appreciated.

There should be some place on the grounds
where guests can secure ref reshments—hot drinks,
particularly.

To promote general participation, appropriate
events must be scheduled for as many groups as
possible. Almost everyone can engage in some
of these informal winter sports activities:

Tobogganing Ice boating Figure skating
Bump-the-bumps ' Hiking Skijoring
Skating Sleighing Curling
Skiing TSlEdding Dog sledding
Snowshoeing Sail skating Ski hiking

It is imperative that first aid be available at a
station on the carnival grounds in case of acci—
dent or emergency.

American Winter Carnivals

Ann Arbor. Michigan. A skating carnival is held
yearly at Ann Arbor, Michigan. For the second
annual carnival in 1939, this competition was

scheduled:

Girls’ Events:
Broom riding race (12-14)
Obstacle race (10-11)
Pair skating (9 and under)
50 yard speed race (15 and over)
Relay race
Figure skating

Boys’ Events:
Broom riding race (9 and under)
Obstacle race (12-14)
Speed race (15 and over)

Chariot race (10-11)

Relay race
Figure skating

Camdenl Maine. The Snow Bowl W'inter Car-
nival at Camden, Maine, is a five year old celebra-
tion. The community has an illuminated area with
a ski jump, ski tow, toboggan chute, hockey rink,
club house and skate house. (New England is a
section which responds readily to the carnival
spirit: almost every white village or town boasts
of at least part of a day set aside for King
\Vinter.)

ChicagoI Illinois. The Chicago Park District held
a “Mid-Winter Mardi Gras” in 1938. The pro-

gram consisted of :

Songfest

Chariot race

Barrel stave 100 yard dash (boys)

Dog sled race (boys and girls under 12)

534 FESTIVALS AND CARNIVALS

Couple skating 440 yard race (senior boys and girls)

Tug of war (teams of six men)

Skate sail race

Parade of decorated sleds (boys and girls under 12)

Novice ligure skating (boys and girls under 18)

Half-mile medley relay (junior boys and girls; couples;
men)

The festivities were climaxed by fireworks and
a parade of children and adults in Mardi Gras
costumes led by the queen of the ice carnival.

DerryI New Hampshire. The oldest winter car-
nival in the state of New Hampshire is said to be
the Dartmouth Carnival, and the second oldest fes-
tival is that held in Derry. At this frolic there are
junior and senior skiing and snowshoeing, hockey
games, ice racing, ski jumping, fancy skating, and
woodchopping contests.

Marquettel Michigan. One week each year the
townspeople of Marquette, Michigan, come to-
gether for a winter carnival. The second annual
winter carnival was presented in 1940. On the
opening day everyone wore his gayest clothes, ac-
cording to carnival edict, or was hauled into a
kangaroo court by the “fun police” (forty high
school girls appointed for the occasion). An ice
carnival was presented on successive nights in
four sections of the city. The schedule included:

Speed skating for boys and Balloon light
girls: Barrel stave racing
Cradle class Fancy skating exhibition
Midget class Father and son race
Cadet class Mother and daughter race
Juniors Three-skate race
Seniors Exhibition of Indian game

An outstanding feature of the carnival was the
coronation of the “Queen of the Sparkling Snow”
(who was crowned by an authentic Indian chief)
and the presentation of an Indian pageant. Finals
in speed skating were conducted at the end of the
week and a ski jump tournament climaxed the
carnival.

Newport, New Hampshire. The carnival at New-
port, New Hampshire, includes softball, fancy
skating, indoor bazaar, dog sled races, ski and

snowshoe competition, a Queen and a coronation
ball.

Rochester, Minnesota. A second annual ice
frolic for school children was conducted in 1940
by the Parent-Teacher Association of a school in
Rochester, Minnesota. Straight skating races, re-
lays, and figure skating demonstrations comprised
the program.

Sioux City. Iowa. The 1940 Winter Sports Fes—
tival of Sioux City, Iowa, contained the follow—
ing events:

Figure skating competition

Crowning of king and queen
Fancy skating exhibition

Ice basketball game
General skating

Silver skates championship

The winners in the tri-state silver skates cham-
pionship derby received gold, silver, and bronze
medals. Another event was a grand parade of all
costumed skaters. Winners were judged on these
bases: adult costumes—most comic, most attrac-
tive, most original; children’s costumes—most
comic, most attractive, most original; youngest
skater in costume; oldest skater in costume.

St. Louis County' Minnesota. The St. Louis
County Winter Frolic, held since 1934, is an out-
standing event for rural people of the region. At
first activities centered around broomball, speed
skating, hockey games, and the queen coronation
pageant. Then outdoor activities, competitive
events and novelty features were added. In 1937
an innovation was made: a county-wide winter
sports convention was held. The second annual
convention was attended by one hundred and fifty
delegates representing twenty regions of St. Louis
County. This convention was the basis of the
Greater Rural St. Louis County Winter Sports'
Association which now sponsors local, regional,
and county-wide winter sports programs.

The emphasis at the local, regional, and county-
wide frolic is on mass participation. New novelty
events are introduced each year—woodchopping
contests, wood sawing contests, wood horse com-
petition, German band contests, parades, and many
other activities.

Early each fall a guide book is issued for the
Coordinating and Clearing House Committee. The
1941 guide book included this schedule of activities: ,-

Vipu Kelkka contest (dis- .
tance traveled in two ,
minutes)

Broomball tournament

Novelty contests;
Blindfold bag swat
Fin horse light
Woodchopping contest
Log sawing contest

Toboggan slide for distance

Slaloming (downhill slide
for distance)

Speed skating races

Cross country ski race
(half-mile)

Bumps slide for distance

Spark stotting race (100
yard dash)

Other activities listed: all sorts of sleigh rides, a:
snow modeling exhibition, dances, hockey games,
ice follies, coronation pageant.

Whitefield, New Hampshire. Under the spon-.l
sorship of the Outing Club, Whitefield, New

l 0

WINTER PA GEANTS

Hampshire, holds an ice carving contest every
year.

Program of Activities

Below is a typical program of events for a two
day carnival:

First Day:

10 :00 A. M. Informal activities (beginning at 10:00
and continuing through afternoon and
evening)

1 :00 P. M. Tobogganing
1:30 Ski Jumping Exhibition

2:00-4:30 Ski Championship Contests
Men’s and Boys’ Events (novices only)
2:00 Ski jump for distance, open, form
considered
Ski jump for distance, open, re-
gardless of form
2:20 5 mile cross country race, 18 and
over
2:30 Mile cross country race, 11—15
2 :50 500 yard dash, open
3:30 2%- mile cross country race, 15-18
Women’s and Girls’ Events
2 :40 M mile cross country
3:40 200 yard dash, open
Special Events for Ski Experts
3:00 Ski jump

3:50 5 mile race

2 :00—4 :30 Snowshoe Championship Contest
Boys' and Girls’ Events
2:00 50 yard dash, boys under 16
2:15 100 yard dash, open, boys
2:30 Obstacle race, open, boys
2:45 50 yard backward race, open, boys
3 :00 50 yard dash, open, girls
3:30 Obstacle race, open, girls
3:45 50 yard back-ward race, open, girls
4:00 Potato race, open, girls

3:30 Exhibition of Skijoring
4:00 Snow Tobogganing
7:15 Signal Bombs

7 :30 Fireworks

Second Day :

10 :00 A. M. Informal Activities
12:30 P. M. Street Parade

1:30-3:15 Novelty Winter Sports Events
Sack race
Skijoring
Tilting on skis
Tilting on barrels
Baseball game on snowshoes
Obstacle race on snowshoes
Basketball on snowshoes
Snowshoes tug of war

3:15-4:30 Ice Hockey Game
3:30 Exhibition of Figure Skating
4:00 Women’s Costume Skating Event

535

5:00-5:30 Championship Skating Contest

150 yard dash, boys, under 16

150 yard dash, girls, under 16
Mile race

220 yard hurdle race
2 mile relay race

7:45 Signal bombs

Winter Pageants

WINTER PAGEANTS are held yearly at the Yo-
semite Winter Club Open Air Rink. The
rink, located directly at the base of a three thou-
sand foot cliff is sixty thousand square feet in
area. It is true that few communities Wishing to
produce a winter pageant will be able to make use
of such a spectacular setting, but the municipal ice
skating area will provide adequately in most cases
for the effective staging of a winter pageant. The
pageant may be included in carnival festivities or
it may be a special Winter production.

Coronation Ceremony. The usual winter carni-
val pageant centers about the coronation of the
carnival queen, as in the yearly Court of Queens
at the Greater Rural St. Louis County Winter
Frolic. There the feminine rulers of the frolics
throughout the connty are presented at the court,
along with their provincial courts and aides, as
queens of various winter sports activities. The
climax of the pageant is the presentation and
crowning of Her Imperial Majesty, the CUrrent
Miss Rural St. Louis County.

The following procedure is approximately that
used at the Court of Queens:

The guards of honor (the Officers of the Snow-
shoes and the Officers of the Skis) march out on
the ice and take their positions as the master of
ceremonies begins his running commentary on the
pageant.

The color guards enter, each carrying a banner
decorated with the coat of arms _of one of the
winter sports activities represented by the pro-
vincial queens. They stop, face each other, and
form an archway with their fiags through which
the fornier Miss Rural St. Louis County enters
the court. The officers salute; the color bearers
dip their Bags. Next, the provincial queens are
presented one by one as they walk beneath the
arch of fiags with their courts. When all are in
position, “Her Most Distinguished Royal Imperial

(Continued on page 565)

Safety for Skiers

CONTRIBUTION to the safety of ‘ skiers has
A been made by the American Red Cross in
the teaching of first aid to the safety patrols
maintained by various ski clubs, and the organiza-
tion has published a booklet, “Ski Safety and First
Aid,” which is used as a standard textbook in the
training courses.

Since their organization, safety patrols com-
posed of volunteers have accomplished much in
the promotion of safety. They have helped lay
out and prepare practice slopes where beginners
may receive instruction before attempting the
more difhcult and dangerous trails. Novices arriv-
ing from the city are directed to these slopes, as-
sisted with their equipment, and warned against
attempting feats beyond their skill and physical
ability. The patrols have arranged for instruction
by qualified teachers, as many accidents occur
when novices are skiing out of control, unable to
check their speed. To assist in certain phases of
the work, the Red Cross and some of the ski clubs
have established caches back in the hills where
blankets, toboggans, heating pads, and other ma-
terials needed in caring for and transporting the
injured are kept ready for emergencies.

All this is volunteer work done in the holiday
time of patrol members, who, for love of the sport
and the satisfaction of helping others, forego
their own recreational skiing and make long, tedi-
ous, and even dangerous trips to assist strangers
in trouble. At the end of each day’s skiing in
many areas patrolmen cover all s10pes and trails
in a final run to be sure no one is left on the
mountain injured, fatigued, or with broken equip—
ment.

Fatigue has been found a large contributing
factor in accidents. As the skier tires, inattention
comes on. He may not see slight irregularities of
trail or slope.. At the same time the failing visi-
bility of late afternoon makes it harder to pick a
safe course. Sudden changes in temperature and
weather may completely alter the safety .of a trail.
As the sun slips behind the mountain snow hard-
ens rapidly and may become crusted. Hard-packed
trails become icy with use, and where an hour
before a turn might be made easily the skier may
now skid into the woods at tremendous speed. All

these things the ski patrol is helping to teach
beginners.

536

The following rules if carefully followed will
enable the skier to avoid many an accident:

Don’t start down a steep slope unless you know
how to slow down or stop.

Wear goggles if out for any length of time.
Snow blindness may be extremely painful.

Stay well to the side of the trail when climbing
and avoid getting in the way of others coming
down.

Slow down when rounding blind turns.

Travel in group and stay together, especially
on the higher slopes.

Observe snow conditions and watch for changes,
especially in the late afternoon after a compara-
tively warm day. "

Bear in mind that even though a ski accident
may be slight injuries are aggravated by cold
weather, and the distance from medical care is
generally great.

Helen Henry, author of “Winter Wanderings,”
on page 557, has prepared the following list of
“Safety Firsts for Skiers’ Safety”:

See to it that y0ur bindings fit, remembering that

A loose ski on a crowded slope’s a dangerous thing.

Follow advice and do not try, your first time out, to

Emulate the skill and daring of those with years of '
practice on

The tricky things called skis. Heed this, or else

Your first time on the “slats” may be your last.

First learn to walk about, hold balance, turn around.

In mastering these, you’re gaining ever more

Respect for all the whimsies of your new—found wings.
Skill will come later, with a bit more practice, then the
Thrill of your first “schuss” without a spill,

Slowly at first, no faster than you can control.

For turns you’ll need more practice, but take it easy now
and then relax,

Or else you’ll think it work instead of sport. Don't overdo. ;

Remember that a runner has the right of way and climb atéi

Sides of hills—and leave the bigger hills for better skiers. 4.

Know that the maker of a “sitzmark” is most unpopular’i.

If he fails to fill his hole. And do not walk about — 

Ergo, leave sleds, toboggans, dogs, at home when you go
skiing— -,

Ruts, holes and footprints have brought many a chain-"i1
pion low.

Sin not in overestimate of strength and skill of

Self or others; a hill’s much farther up than down.

And when on country tour you’re bent, far from thg'
crowded runs, 

Fail not to take a partner (better, two). Don’t ski alone;

Else you may be a solitary corpse. A broken ski’s not.
funny when

The dark and cold come early. And remember, for thg-
lesser dangers, :"

Your goggles and a grease or lotion are friends in need
against snow burn and snow blindness. ’

Skiing

KIING—CROSS country, slalom.
S and jumping ——- which five

years ago attracted only com-
paratively few of \Visconsin’s
younger boys and girls, is today ranked as the
state’s number one winter activity among Badger-
land's younger generation. It is a matter of record
that until recent years there was only one junior
ski club in' Wisconsin. Today their number is
legion. .

About five years ago Fred Rhea was asked to
direct the state-wide \VPA recreation program in
\Visconsin. On one of his first trips through
northern \Visconsin he stopped off at Eau Claire,
recognized throughout the country as a commu-
nity “where youngsters are born with skis on
their feet.” At the suggestion of the local rec-
reation supervisor, Mr. Rhea visited the Fourth
Ward School where a junior ski jump had been
erected. On his arrival at the school during the
morning recess period he saw dozens of children

For Wisconsin Youth

By BRYN GRIFFITHS
Recreation Division

Wisconsin WPA

between the ages of six and six—
teen making beautiful jumps.
Thrilled with the sight, as he con—
tinued his trip through the state he
made inquiries regarding junior skiing in other
localities and learned to his amazement that except
for Eau Claire there was very little skiing among
the boys and girls. Going back to Eau Claire, he
consulted with Jim Ellingson, well—known profes-
sional ski jumper, who was coach to the boys and
girls he had seen at the Fourth Ward School and
adult adviser to the children’s ski club known as
the “Flying Eagles.” This club boasts a member-
ship of more than fifty boys and girls under six-
teen years of age.

“How,” Mr. Rhea asked, “can we find out how
many boys and girls in Wisconsin are actually
participating in skiing?” In an effort to secure
this information,- he and Mr. Ellingson organized
the first state junior ski jumping tourney ever
held in \Visconsin. T he event was widely pub-

 

537

538 SKIING FOR W'ISCONSIN YOUTH

Junior skiers in Wiscon-
5 sin await their turn to
f jump at one of the popu-
lar Junior Ski Tourneys

areas to teach ski funda-
mentals. That these in-
structors were capable
and efficient is refiected
in the fact that thus far
there has not been a ser-
ious injury to a junior
ski jumper in a \Viscon—
sin tournament.
Organization of the
junior ski clubs was soon
followed by the forma-
tion of a state-wide as-
sociation. This associa-
tion functions admirably
well and has been offici-

( Continued on page 569)

 

licized through daily and weekly newspapers, the
radio, and other mediums. On the day of the
tourney it became evident that nearly eighty-five
per cent of the active skiers came from the Eau
Claire locality. However, there were between two
and three hundred ski novices who attended as
onlookers, convincing evidence of a latent interest
among the boys and girls of the state in skiing.
It was decided that something should be done to
develop this interest. Through in-service training
meetings and supervisors’ conferences, each of
the seven hundred workers employed on the VVPA
recreation program was urged to “feel out” the
children in his community regarding junior ski
clubs such as the Flying Eagles then in existence
in Eau Claire.

The idea caught on like wildfire. Overnight
junior ski clubs came into existence throughout
northern Wisconsin. Within a few weeks there
was scarcely a town or village in that section of
the state that did not boast of a junior organiza-
tion. Mr. Rhea sent instructors throughout the

The "long and the shor+ of it"! Chil-

dren of all ages and sizes have a part
in Wisconsin's state-wide ski program.

 

i The Construction and Maintenance

LAKE, POND, or sluggish stream provides a
A natural ice skating area, but frequently it is

necessary to build skating rinks on play-
grounds, either by flooding or spraying. Small
areas (a battery of tennis courts or other hard-
surfaced areas) and large areas (a baseball, foot-
ball, or soccer field and open park spaces) have
been utilized for winter skating. In general, spray-
ing has proved more satisfactory on small areas,
but for large spaces flooding is the more practic—
able method. Experience shows that flooding or
spraying does not injure turf if normal precau—
tions are taken.

The first problem to consider is location. An
area which is sheltered from the sun as much as
possible will give the best results. Any kind of
soil except sand will do. There should be an out-
let to allow the water to drain off the ground as
soon as possible after the spring thaw. The space

l to be used for the rink must be leveled off and
. cleared of all rocks or debris.

In flooding a rink, it is necessary to construct
around the field a dirt dyke, approximately twelve
inches high and ten inches thick. This dyke must
be tamped thoroughly and frozen to prevent water
from seeping through. Spray it every night, using

» I a garden hose without the nozzle spray, until the

possibility of leakage at the base is eliminated.
When the temperature is sufficiently low, start

the water from a large hose. The stream of water

should strike a large piece of tin or wood platform

- .so that the pressure will not cut holes in the field.

"Fill the field with water until it seeks its own level
and continue to check the dyke for leakage.
' The chief disadvantage in building this type of

I rink is that the children will not allow it to freeze
I horoughly. They either walk on the ice and

.Jreak through or throw rocks, so that in most
:ases the ice never has an opportunity to become
solid.

Spraying is the best method for building an ice
"ink. When using this system, a dyke is not neces-
.ary. A good thermometer is essential for making
ce. The best temperature for spraying is from
Lero to ten degrees above, but it is possible to start
Lt twenty degrees. It is always best to have a few
aches of frost in the ground before starting to

pray.

of
Ice SkatingAreas

By CARL L. GRABOW

Direcfor of Recreafion
....Dubuque. Iowa

If possible, do the Spraying at night. The rink
should be scraped of all cuttings before water is
applied, since water sprayed over heavy cuttings
will result in rough ice. Sprayed ice very seldom
cracks, as a flooded rink often does, because the
ice is frozen solid to the ground and there is no
air space underneath.

There are many types of sprays on the market
but any local tinner can make a good spray out of
sheet iron or heavy galvanized tin with a coupling
soldered in the end to fit the hose. The most con-
venient size hose is 1%” by 1%”. When the spray
is attached to the hose, start spraying at the end
of the field farthest from the water supply. Work
across the rink back and forth, walking backwards
toward the opposite end with one man behind to
pull up the slack in the hose. When the rink is
completely sprayed once, return to the starting
point and start over. Continue in this way until
the ground is entirely covered and a foundation
has been built up.

The first layer of water may soak into the
ground, since the water from the mains is warmer
than the ground. This is to be expected, and if
the temperature is low enough, ice will begin to
form after the second spraying.

If snow has fallen on the field before making
the ice, remove as much of it as possible and spray
over the rest. Do not make the mistake of trying
to melt the snow by pouring water on it. It will
require too much water. When spraying over the
snow, the SUI'faCC will be very rough at first, but
it will smooth out after several layers have been'
sprayed. Successful rinks have been built on a
field covered with six inches of snow. It takes
time and cold weather, but it can be done.

To remove a heavy snow from large rinks a

(Continued on page 566)
539

Winter Sports for Michigan

A comprehensive Winter Sports Institute
will, its sponsors hope, make this sea-
son's program of winter activities the
best Upper Michigan has ever experienced

ICHIGAN is climbing the toboggan slide
M to bigger, better—and safer—winter
sports for her northern communities.
After long-range planning and through the
combined efforts, of several workers on Michi-
gan’s \VPA Recreation program, the following
objective prompted twenty-one cooperating
agencies to assist in conducting a state-wide
\Vinter Sports Institute to be held in Ishpem-
ing and Marquette, Michigan, December 9—14,
1940: “To provide personnel with fundamen-
tals of skills and understanding of the scope
and importance of a winter sports program to
various communities. Individuals chosen to
attend will be highly selective so they may
serve as key people in their respective areas.”
And Michigan will surely travel fast and far
on her plans for 1940’s season of wholesome,
outdoor fun and entertainment, for the Insti-
tute’s staff of discussion leaders, panel mem-
bers, instructors and speakers includes repre—
sentatives from groups highly qualified in
theory and practice of successful winter sports
program operation. In addition to stressing the
importance of the activity to the individual,
the normal development of community inter-
ests, including commercial, will be taken into
consideration by the Institute.

Because of similar climate, topography,
winter sports facilities and problems, Upper
\Visconsin and Minnesota communities have
been invited to attend the Institute with the
assurance that the three states will be able to
exchange ideas with each other to the advan—
tage of all.

Among the agencies manifesting interest in
Michigan’s winter sports by participating
directly or indirectly in the Institute are the
following: Upper Peninsula Development
Bureau; Central Ski Association (National Ski
Association): National Park Service: United

540

States Forest Service; State Conservation De-
partment; State Highway Department; Ish—
peming Winter Sports club; Ishpeming Indus—
trial Association; City of Marquette; City of
Ishpeming; Marquette Winter Sports club;
City of Escanaba Recreation Department;
Northern State Teachers College; Ottawa
Tourist Bureau; National Youth Administra-
tion; Tourist Guide Demonstration Project,
WPA; Ishpeming Ski club; Marquette County
Public Schools; Michigan College of Mining
and TechnolOgY; Work Projects Adminis—
tration.

The program, in brief, will be as follows:

On Monday morning, December 9th, in Ish—
peming, following registration and formal
opening of the Institute by WPA Recreation’s
national, state and district staff, there will be a
panel discussion, “Financing Winter Sports.”
In the afternoon the Ishpeming Ski Patrol
unit will demonstrate ski patrol organization.
Tournaments will be discussed, and-this dis—
cussion will be followed by demonstration and

group instruction of ski techniques. Winter I

sports movies will be shown in the evening.
Scheduled for Tuesday morning, December
10th, in Ishpeming, is a continuation of skiing

demonstrations and group instructions. Group I

study and field work on facility planning, ,‘

equipment layout, safety control, demonstra-

I

tions and program construction for toboggan» i.

ing will fill the afternoon hours. In the evening;

a second panel discussion will be held, and
“Recreational Winter Sports” will be dis?
cussed.

Study groups in the planning and construc-
tion of facilities, field work on skating rinks,_
ski areas, specialized instruction in teaching
skiing, bobsled slides and trails will keep In--
stitute enrollees busy in Ishpeming the morn-

/COMn°rmed on page 567)

 

' Timberline Lodge

I ‘ UTDOOR AMERICANS who only yesterday put

0 away their bathing suits are now taking out

their ski clothes and departing for the snowy

hills where there is something new under the win-
ter sun — winter sports for everybody.

Within the past five years the Work Projects
Administration has built more than a thousand ice
skating areas, 308 miles of ski trails, scores of ski
jumps, and hundreds of such facilities as toboggan
chutes, bobsled runs, slalom courses, warming
houses, parking areas, outdoor fireplaces, and win-
ter sports pavilions. These necessities have been
' built, and other hundreds have been improved,
. wherever weather is amenable to winter sports.

Moreover, the VVPA has opened existing winter
' play areas to motoring throngs by building auto-
mobile roads into resorts which formerly could
- be reached only by tortuous snowshoe trails and
mountain paths. WPA instructors have recruited
thousands of new enthusiasts by making winter
,. sports safe for beginners, and winter sports car-
nivals and contests each year attract hundreds of
’participants and thousands of spectators.

Some of the results are obvious. Throngs of
Americans now sashay or glide over the whited
hills instead of watching shadows at this bracing
sport on moving picture screens as they did a few
years ago. A holiday may be spent as pleasurany
mt of doors in winter as in summer. Windburns

Photo by Roy Atkeson, Photo-Art Studios

are becoming as common among indoor workers
in December as sunburns are in July, and head
colds are becoming much less common.

Some other results are less obvious. For in—
stance, winter resort operation has grown from a
negligible to a considerable business where im—
provements have increased the. ranks of winter
sportsmen from hundreds to thousands. Where
winter sports facilities have been installed in sum-
mer play areas, the resort business has been pro—
longed from summer to year—round duration.
Transportation lines have been established to carry
crowds to and from winter recreation areas; and,
in clothing and sports goods industries, winter
sports clothing and equipment have become staple
rather than novel lines. Sports tradesmen have
announced that in 1935 (when the WPA program
began) ski and snowshoe sales in the United
States totaled only $417,000, but that in 1938 ski
sales alone totaled $3,000,000, and Americans
spent $6,000,000 for ski clothing.

Timberline Lodge near Portland, Oregon, the
largest of the sports centers built by WPA is, in
itself, a sizeable business. The lodge, a four-story
building on the southern slope of Mt. Hood,
covers about 10,000 square feet of ground, offers
hotel accommodations to 240 guests, and is the
center of a completely equipped summer-and-win-
ter play area which affords ample room for 30,000

541

S42 WINTER FUN FOR ALL

persons engaging in the sports of either season.
The project, operated on federally-owned ground,
was sponsored by the Forest Service Division, U.
S. Department of Agriculture, built by the WPA,
and is operated as a privately supervised conces-
sion which provides as many persons with year-
round employment, directly or indirectly, as does
a small village.

Of course, there is only one Timberline Lodge,
but there are other large WPA-built or improved
play centers ; and whether it has operated on large
or small scale, business and social benefits have ap-
peared together wherever the recreational program
has reached. What happened in Wisconsin is
merely typical.

There government-built ,sports centers have
been established at Stiles, Perkinston, Mt. Val-
halla, Spur Lake, and Eagle River. The Stiles
center, typical of these resorts, includes a tobog-
gan slide, snowshoe trail, ski slope, skating rink,
hockey rink, and shelter house. Winter sports car-
nivals, usually of several days’ duration, have been
established at each of these playgrounds, and
thousands of spectators attend them. The result-
ing business increase is so great that in Hayward
the merchants have taken over a WPA-established
winter carnival as a promotional event. Visiting
spectators occupy all living quarters the town has
available for them, and many who are turned away
take accommodations as far away as Ashland, 60
miles distant, and commute daily to the carnival.

In California the WPA, the United States For-
est Service, and other federal agencies turned a
rugged countryside into a winter play area forty-
iive miles northeast of Fresno. At this pleasure
place, known as the Shaver Winter Sports Area,
toboggan slides, ski runs, ice skating rinks, and a
general play area cover six acres. There are large
parking spaces, outdoor fireplaces, and the usual
out buildings. This is not a large resort, measured
by some of the biggest that WPA has built, but
business recognized it as a community asset so im-
portant that the California Edison Company, the
Chamber of Commerce, and even unorganized
merchants have raised funds to popularize it.

Attendance reports have justified the business
community’s expectations. The project, begun in
the autumn of 1938, was finished last winter, and
was visited in the ensuing few months that re-
mained of the winter sports season by 19,000 per-
sons. Before winter sports facilities were installed,
there was no mass visitation. The benefit which
even 19,000 visitors confer upon transport lines

into a sparsely-settled community, and upon local
business, is obvious; and it is estimated that at-
tendance during last winter’s brief season will be
far surpassed when the resort becomes better
known.

Winter sports enthusiasts not only visit the huge
Belknap Mountain Recreation Center in Belknap
County, New Hampshire; they even build cottages
nearby for winter or year-round use. Belknap, an
all year recreation area, occupies about 700 acres.
W'inter sports facilities include a toboggan chute,
expansive open ski slopes, a chair tow to carry
skiers up a rise of 2,800 feet, ski trails, slalom
course, 10, 20, and 60 meter ski jumps, the latter
with a 50—foot steel tower supporting a starting
platform and observation floor.

A 40 meter jump is under construction, and
a 150 foot by 70 foot winter-and-summer recrea-
tion building is nearly completed. Plans have
been drawn for an additional large recreation
building to be roofed with an observation plat-
form, a swimming _pool which will be used in
winter for ice skating and hockey, and for a mile-
long bobsled run.

Another WPA contribution to the Belknap
Center is an eight mile road connecting New York
and Boston highways with the resort, thus mak-
ing it easy to reach from both cities. Similar
WPA-built approaches have opened other winter
or winter-and-summer recreational areas to addi;
tional thousands—mainly working people who
have only week ends free and cannot spend the
time necessary to reach resorts by way of existing
snowshoe trails and mountain paths. Where these
tedious routes have been supplemented by auto-
mobile 'roads the ranks of winter sportsmen have
increased from hundreds to thousands.

The WPA now is completing such a road in
Idaho. Sun Valley and Payette Lake provide
ideal winter playgrounds for persons who can}.
reach them, but they are 185 miles and 110 miles:
respectively from Boise—too remote to serve thei
recreational need of office workers in the state’s;
principal urban area. To remedy this plight thg
WPA is building a 19 mile, all-weather automo-
bile road from Boise to the Bogus Basin where
complete facilities for winter sports will be in«'
stalled. Workers can then reach an ideal wintei
playground by automobile in forty-five minutes.

Many other winter sports areas have beer.
opened to general use by major or minor roadn
constructed by the WPA. One of the longest 0;
these in a 20 mile highway from Salt Lake City :

WINTER FUN FOR ALL

v‘ Utah. into scenic Alta Basin, 3 natural winter
sports terrain which is covered with snow from
November until May. The U. S. Forest Service,
sponsor of the road project, reports that 827 cars
were parked at the Basin in a single day and that
98,000 persons engaged in winter sports there in
a single season after the road was built.

The Forest Service has reported unexpected
results from construction of new roads into win-
ter sports areas, and from keeping new and old
roads open and sanded in winter for sportsmen’s
convenience. One result is that numerous com-
munities. previously snowbound several times
each winter, now enjoy cleared thoroughfares re-

‘gardless. of weather. Another result is the ap-

grpearance of hundreds of winter motorists who
drive through the countryside for its wintry
beauty. A Forest Service publication reports that
.n some regions winter motoring “promises to be-
:ome, in point of participating persons, the lead-
ing winter sport. . . .”

For city dwellers who cannot reach outlying re-
.sorts, the WPA has built winter sports facilities
.n urban areas. One of these borders North
Avenue on the outskirts of Burlington, Vermont.

. it consists of a long toboggan slide, bobsled run,
1 ;kiing slope, coasting slope, and warming houses.
' l‘he whole area is flood-

ighted so that it may
' )perate day and night.
' "Five hundred to six hun—

Ilred persons play there
' laily, and two other Ver-
- .nont towns, Richford
'gnd Enosberg Falls, also
ii'iave urban recreation
iiueas that attract addi-
' "onal hundreds.
" i Several cities have de-

')'ised means of making

\ ummer sports places
 erve also for winter use.

i ‘11 Colorado, the VVPA

I“installed equipment for

Juniors of Eau Claire,
Wisconsin, are given

, ski instruction. WPA
built the ski slide.

 

icing tennis courts at Denver, Boulder, Fort
Logan, Golden, Pueblo, and Fort Collins. Flooded
and frozen in winter, these courts become skating
and hockey rinks. The same practice is followed
in many other cities, and quite often facilities
built especially for winter sports are equally use-
ful in summer. Indeed most of the large ice skat-
ing pavilions, because of their great seating capa-
city, are engaged winter and summer for civic,
meetings when they are not demanded for sports
events. The chair tow, especially installed at the,
Belknap Center to carry skiing parties up a 2,800,
foot rise, is used in summer to lift tourists to a.
commanding observation point. _

By its non-construction program, too, the WPA
has done much to make winter sports a popular
rather than an exclusive recreation. It has sta-,
tioned instructors in nearly all the winter play-
grounds it has built or improved. These experts,
by offering instruction which makes even skiing
safe for beginners, attract hundreds of persons
who would never attempt winter sports alone.
Many of these beginners, once initiated at public
resorts, become patrons of privately-owned play-
grounds; and nearly all of them become custom-
ers of the sports equipment and sports clothing
industries.

(Continued on page 569) 

Courtesy WPA, Washington, D. C.

543

A Novel Backyard Winter Carnival

By ELIZABETH DONNELLY
National Recreation Association

and you are tired of the fireside, why not in-

vite your friends to a winter carnival in your
own backyard or in some nearby park area, field
or open space? Remember when you used to play
fox and geese and make angels in the snow? The
forts you built and the snow fights? Have you
forgotten how to throw a snowball straight? Then
it’s about time you brushed up on your backyard
skills and gave your friends a chance to do it too.
They’ll love it!

IF WINTER is weighing heavily on your shoulders

As chairman of your own planning committee,
you will have a weather problem. It is impossible
to predict in advance, but try to select a night
when there will be plenty of fresh snow on the
ground and a fairly bright moon. Since the party
will be out of doors, a very cold night may cut
down your playing time. A trip to the weather
bureau may help you select a carnival date. Col-
ored lights strung between the trees will give the
yard a gay carnival air and help the moon solve
your lighting problem. A camp fire or automobile
head lights will also brighten up your play area.

Fold sheets of blue construction paper and
staple them to look like regulation carnival pro-
grams. Print or write your invitation in white
ink. On the cover a snowman or befurred Eskimo
' may announce, “Official Program for (insert your
last name) Winter Carnival.” The cover will also
include an announcement of time, date, and place.
The first page may announce (your name) as gen-
eral chairman of the committee and the program
of events will begin on the second page. A few
outstanding games have been selected for the ex-
ample shown in the. right-hand column, but you
may list your events in any order you wish.

Use as many games as you wish, but remember
to alternate very active and less vigorous games.
Many of your guests have not frolicked in the
snow recently and will tire readily. Give them a
chance to catch their breath, get dry mittens, and
then begin again. If other forms of these games
are popular in the neighborhood, use them.

544

EVENTS OF THE NIGHT

8 :30 - 10:30 P. M.

Fox and Geese

Target Practice

Pom Pom Pullaway
Follow the Leader

Snatch the Ball

Flashlight Tag

Snowflake and Snowdrift
King of Snow Mountain

Carnival Games

10 :30 Warming-up Banquet

 

Make up comic advertisements on the blanl
pages of your Winter Carnival program-invita
tions. They will brighten up the pages and hel]
you explain some of the party program to you
guests. One of the ads might suggest that eacl
contestant come warmly dressed for an outdoo
evening, warm caps, socks, mittens and mufflers
Advertise for extra pairs of dry socks and mitten
for the use of “frozen” guests. A cosmetics a:
might advise the use of cold cream to preven
windburn and chapping, and let the Not-So-Hc
company promise chocolate or coffee to the guest
at intervals during the evening.

Carnival Day Arrives

Some of the games require a little previor
planning, since sticks and balls must be read
ahead of time. A bump-the-bumps slide can l
built in the afternoon and if you prefer, the for
and-geese wheel may be tracked down in the sno
and left ready for the guests. I

When the carnivalites arrive have a large sign
in front directing them to the back yard for fell
tivities. Do not invite them into the house whe:l
it will be warm and they will waste time removir;
heavy clothing. Impromptu snowball fights w‘
keep early guests busy until all arrive. If you a
planning the party for a nearby park, have the,
meet in your yard and go together. In either ca
it will be fun to have each boy call for his par .
ner and bring her to the carnival on a sled. T|

If you plan to give prizes, awards and trophi.
can be improvised for carnival winners and pr
sented at the banquet. Toy skis and skates, 1n 1

-

"King Snow" rules over this party.
and what a iolly old tyrant he is!

are is refutation of the charge that

snerica is getting "soft"!

This party

;y be a little on the strenuous side,
.t we guarantee that you'll enioy-itl

- h" i‘

tens, or white soapstone figures make appropriate
gifts. Winning teams can be presented with tin
CUps with the name of the event painted in black
or white. Instead of prizes for some games, los-
ing teams can be forced to pay forfeits. Make
them do stunts in the snow, or have them go into
the house and serve hot chocolate to the winning
team. If you are at a park, let them serve a hot
drink which has been prepared in thermos bottles
and brought along. Guests will appreciate this in
the middle of a cold evening.

These Games Are Fun, But Rough

Fox and Geese. A large circle from fifteen to
thirty feet in diameter is marked in the snow and
crossed with intersecting lines like the spokes of a
wheel. The foxes scatter around the rim of the
wheel with one fox, or player, in every den (in-
tersection of spoke and rim of wheel). A Hunter
stands in the center of the hub of the wheel. The
object of the game is for the foxes to run along
the spokes or around the rim to another den with-
out being tagged by the Hunter, who cannot tag a
fox when he is safe in a den. Players may not run
into fresh snow or make new trails. When run-
ning along the spokes foxes cannot change to an-
other spoke at the hub. The Hunter, however,
may run along any spoke in any direction he
wishes. When a fox is tagged he becomes the
Hunter. Instead of Hunter and foxes, players
may be called fox and geese. (For a large number
of players, two wheels will be needed.)

Fox and Geese. (Double rim.) A variation of the
wheel can be made with two rims, several feet
apart. The dens are found at the points. where the
spokes meet the outer rim. In this game there is
always one more fox than the number of- dens, so
that the extra fox is always trying to get into a
den vacated by another one. Here again the object
is for the foxes to run from den to den along the
spokes and around the rim without getting caught

 

by the Hunter. They may run on the inner rim,
but will find safety only in the dens. This time
foxes need not run straight across a trail, but may
turn off at the hub. No fox may turn back on a
trail, however, but must go on to the first inter-
section. Again the Hunter may run anywhere on
the wheel and the fox tagged becomes the Hunter.

Follow the Leader. This game can be adapted
to a large or small area and can be made amusing
by a clever leader who requires guests to do
stilnts in the snow, step in his tracks, shake snow
from overhanging branches, pass snowballs down
the line or turn somersaults in the snow.

Dodge the Snowball. Track two large concen-
tric circles in the snow about fifteen feet apart.
Divide your party into two equal teams. One team
scatters within the inner circle while the other
team scatters in the area between the two circles.
The center team makes snowballs and throws them
at players on the rim who try to dodge. While
dodging the balls, rim players may not run outside
the outer circle, and snowball-throwing players
may not run outside the inner circle.

If a player is hit, he joins the team in the center
of the circle. The last player in the outer rim
wins. Then the teams change places, with the
circle team going inside and the snowball throw-
ers coming out to the rim. (A variation of this is
to let the outer circle make snowballs and try to
hit those on the inside.)

Squirrel Nest. Make small circles in the snow
to represent trees. Put two squirrels in each tree.
Two odd squirrels are supposed to be looking for
new nests because the farmer has cut down their
tree. At a whistle blast, all squirrels must change
nests. Those who fail to get into a nest must then

545

546 A NOVEL BACKYARD WINTER CARNIVAL

go searching until the next blast. Frequent whistle
blasts will keep this game going.

Flashlight Tag. This is best when played on a
dark night and is not particularly suitable for
bright moonlight. The player called “It” carries a
flashlight, takes a few minutes’ start, and at a sig-
nal the other players chase him. He flashes his
light from time to time to give the chasers a clue
to his whereabouts. The one who succeeds first in
tagging “It” takes the light and the game begins
again. Each guest may be asked to bring a flash-
light and the game can be played with one “It”
player attempting to catch the others, who flash
their light on and off tantalizingly.

Shadow Tag. If the night is bright, this game
may be substituted for Flashlight Tag. The object
is for “It” to tag the others by stepping on their
shadows. When a player is tagged, the former
“It” must run quickly away or his shadow will be

easy prey to the new “It.”

King of Snow Mountain. Build a large hill of
snow and sprinkle water over it to make the sides
slippery. This may be done before the party or by
the guests. One player is chosen king, and his
duty is to stand at the top and guard “Snow
Mountain” from all enemies. The others swarm
up the hill and try to dislodge him, crowning a
new king, and then repeating the process. If the.
party is large, two guests may choose armies and
one group try to dislodge the “Royalists” from
the hill.

Ring-a-Lievio. A five-foot square is outlined as
a den. Two sides are chosen. Leaders draw lots
to see which group shall hide first and the losing
group goes to the den. Members of the first group
run to a distant point, call “Ready,” then scatter
and hide. As soon as the players in the den hear
the call, they start out on the chase, leaving one
player to guard the den.

When a player is caught securely, the catcher
calls “caught,” and takes the prisoner to the “den.”
The object of the game is to make prisoners of all
the members of the hiding team. A prisoner may
be freed from the den if one of his fellow hiders
tags him when the den—keeper is not looking. As
they both run to safety, the rescuer calls “Ring-a-
Lievio.” The den-keeper can try to catch them
but may not pass beyond boundaries which have

been set up for him. The last person to be caught
is the winner.

Snow Leap Frog. Instead of merely jumping
over the backs of players, try having your guests
crawl between their feet, or alternate the two
procedures. If done in deep, soft snow this will
be more difficult and will provide more fun. Bal-
ance snowballs on the back of stooping players and
have others clear the balls while leaping.

Snow Fort and Battle. Even the most dignified
guest will appreciate a good, old-fashioned snow
fight. Let every one help build the fort. Steps
can be made on the inside of the four walls so
that defenders may climb to the top of the wall
inside. Loopholes are left in the sides through
which snowballs can be thrown. Each army can
then make a pile of snow ammunition, and at a
given signal the battle begins. Improvised card-
board shields will help attackers protect them:
selves. If time is limited, a wall may be substi-
tuted for a fort. Enemies only attack from the
front of the _wall. If they can drive the defend-
ers from the wall, they win. If the defenders can
hold the wall until all ammunition is exhausted.
they get the prize.

Pom Pom Pullaway. Two lines are drawn in the
snow thirty to fifty feet apart. All players stand
behind one line, except “It” who stands in the
center of the open ground. He calls any player by
name and adds a formula as below:

“John Smith, Pom Pom Pulla-way
Come away, or I’ll fetch you away.”

The player called must run across the open
space to the safety line on the opposite side, while
“It” tries to catch him before he reaches the line.
If he gets over safely, he remains there until all
of his comrades have joined him or have been
caught. Anyone caught by “It” joins the latter in
helping to catch other players as they dash across
the open space, but the one originally “It” remains

the caller throughout the game. After all the t;

players have been called, those who have succeeded

in reaching the other side try to return to their *

first goal in the same way. The first player who
was caught is “It” for the next game.

Bump-the-Bumps. If you have a slope on which
to play, a bump-the-bumps slide can be made
before the party. Water, snow and simple tools
are needed. The slide may be four feet or more
wide and up to 150 feet in length. Side slopes
are rounded outward like a bowl and may be five
to fifteen inches high. The slide is wavy and
bumpy on the slope and flat on the level places.

A NOVEL BACKYARD WINTER CARNIVAL 547

rSlopes vary between ten and thirty degrees having
abrupt bumps or rough surfaces.
_ A piece of cardboard from a packing carton, a
broom, shovel, piece of smooth board or sheet of
fold tin will serve for rides. When sitting on an
trash can cover or round pan, riders will spin down
" the slide. Guests may stand up or form a train of
riders with arms around each other’s waists. Cau-
lion guests to be careful, especially if the slide is
very icy.
. If no slope is available, the mountain used in
:“King of Snow Mountain” may be built higher
and sprinkled with water to make an icy slide.

Trailing and Tracking. This game is best adapted
.o a large area where the snow is still fresh. If
;he night is bright, trail making and tracking can
)e fun. Give the trail makers a ten to twenty
ninute start. The ability of the others to follow
heir trail will test observation and perseverance.
Blind trails, a double trail which circles in two
.lirections, then merges again, or walking on a
Fence will help hide the trail and add to the fun.

If Your Guests Are Tired, Try These!

Target Practice. Snowball target practice can be
.vorked out in many ways. Guests may be asked
0 hit a snowman or a section of the trunk of a
arge tree which has been marked off with the rope.
3ive each guest an equal number of snowballs and
et them take turns trying to hit the target.

Snowflake and Snowdrift. Divide the grOUp into
wo teams, the Snowflakes and Snowdrifts. Line
hem up in parallel lines eighteen inches apart,
rack to back. Each player makes one snowball.
5? he leader calls “Snow flake” or “Snow
lrift,” holding the “Snow ” as long as pos-
.ible. The side called turns and throws at the
.gthers who run back to their safety line, about
hirty feet behind the center line. Anyone who is
lit joins the opponents. Before a second call is

' given players must all return to the center lines.
the side which finally has all of the players wins.

 

 

 

Snow Snake. This old Indian game is played
3y skimming or skipping sticks over the hard sur-
’ace of the snow, as stones are skipped over water.
Each player is provided with from three to five
mall sticks. These may be especially whittled, or
ust pieces of branches. A perfectly smooth stick
vith some weight is best. Each stick is notched,
wne notch on the first stick, two on the second, etc.

Players stand at a given line and take turns

skimming their sticks over the surface of the
snow, each player throwing but one stick at a
time. When each player has thrown one, the
stick that has gone farthest scores for the thrower
the number of notches on it. For instance, if the
stick has but one notch, the score is one for that
player. The sticks are then gathered up and put
to one side, and each player in turn throws the
next stick in his bunch, the successful player of
the first round having the first throw in the second
round. This is continued till all sticks are thrown.
The highest scorer wins, either within a limited
time or when a certain score is reached. Caution
players to stay behind the line so they will not be

hit by flying sticks and suggest that they aim
below shoulder level.

Snatch the Ball. Two teams are lined up on the
goal lines at opposite ends of the field. Midway
between the lines a black rubber ball is placed on
the ground. In line with the ball, a starting base
is marked on each goal line. A runner starts at a
given signal from each goal line, and the object
is for one of them to reach the ball first, pick it
up, and hit his opponent with it before he can
reach his own goal line again. Each hit is a score
for one side. If the player misses, no score is
made. When runners return to their places the
next two in line come up. Highest score wins for
a team.

Snow Pushball. Let the boys play against the
girls. Roll up a snowball that is three or four feet
in diameter, the larger the better. N ow tramp two
clear parallel lines twenty to thirty feet apart for
the two goal lines. Roll the ball midway between
them and you are ready to play. The girls get on
one side. of the ball and boys on the Opposite side.
Each team tries to push the ball across the home
line of the others. The team which succeeds wins.

Pushball can also be played with two large snow
balls. Teams come at a signal from opposite sides
of the field and try to push one ball over their
opponents’ line. Players must use their own dis-
cretion on when to push their own ball and when
to dash back to hamper the opponents. Each time
a ball crosses an end line a point is scored, and a
re-start made from the middle.

Snow Sculpture Contest. Let each guest or pair
of guests choose some simple object to sculpture
in the snow. Keep choices a secret. If possible,
provide pieces of wood which can be used as a
foundation for the figures. Pile snow over this

548 A NOVEL BACKYARD WINTER CARNIVAL

framework and cut away until figure appears as
you wish. If snow is not sufficiently plastic,
moisten it with a little water. Simple properties
can be provided and used such as stones, pipes,
feathers. Prizes may be given for the funniest
and best. A booby prize may be appropriate for

this game.

Winter Paddle. Fold a piece of newspaper in
several thicknesses about three by eight inches.
Crumple one end to form a handle by which play
ers can graSp the paper paddle, which must be
firm but flexible.

One guest is chosen to stand in the center of a
large circle of players, who crowd together shoulder
to shoulder so that Center cannot see what goes on
behind his back. As Center turns round and
round in an effort to watch everyone, the players
slyly pass the paddle from hand to hand behind
their backs. Whenever a player has an opportunity,
he paddles the Center, quickly puts the paper be-
hind his back, and passes it on to the next player
before he is caught.

Players may hit the Center with nothing but the
paddle, but they may use any other feints to mis—
lead him—pretending to pass it or making a false
move as though to hit him. The Center must catch
one of the circlemen with the paddle actually in
his hands. When he does, the guilty one becomes
Center. Rapid action and good winter fun can be
had with this game if the Center moves around
quickly and circle players are sly in their paddling.

If Toes Get Cold, Try Running!

Many ordinary races can be adapted for run-
ning and sled races in the snow if the area is large
enough. Here are a few:

Eskimo Jumping Race. Line up all guests at a
starting place. Have them fold their arms across
their breasts, knees rigid and feet close together.
Jump forward in short jumps. The course may
be as long as you choose.

Snow Crab Race. Let each racer lie on his
stomach on a sled. Set the goal line and at a given
signal the contestants push the sleds forward with
their hands. No contestant may use his feet to
make the sled go forward.

Snow Tow. Work in pairs, one boy and one girl.
Have the boy pull the girl on the sled and line up
for the start. The course can be twenty-live yards
and back. For variety reverse the process and
have the girls pull the boys.

Push and Coast. Once more choose pairs. Let
one teammate give the one on the sled a running
push up to the take-off line. The sled which coasts
farthest wins. Distance is measured from the
take-off line to the forward point of the sled when
it has stopped.

Belly Flop. Line up the contestants, each with a
sled in hand. At a signal have them run to the.
take-off line, fiop on their sleds and coast. Great-
est distance wins this race.

Let’s Warm Up at the Banquet

A bonfire banquet in the park or in a large yard
will be fun for the carnivalites, but if the evening
is cold a Warm-up banquet in your own home may
help thaw out your guests. Hamburgs, hot dogs,
cocoa or coffee, and winter apples will satisfy the
hungriest contestant. Indoors a carnival table can
be set and any hot dish served.

Winter Favors are easy to make and will trans-
fer the carnival spirit to your banquet table. Snow-
men are built with toothpicks, a small twig, and
flVC marshmallows. Put three marshmallows to—
gether for the body. Another one turned on its:
side becomes a head, and a few cloves will give the.
snowman a nose, eyes, mouth and buttons dowrij
his front. Arms are fashioned from the last.
marshmallow cut in two and stuck to his sides. A
twig under one arm gives your snowman a jauntyw
air. This favor may be used as a place card by.
gluing it to the corner of a plain white card.

Graceful skiers for your table can be made with
pipe. cleaners, a button, and emory boards. Twol
pieces of the pipe cleaner are twisted together for l
the bodies leaving the ends free at top and bottom l
for arms and legs. Fasten a button or bead head!
of the proportionate size to the top of the body]
with thread wire. Paint on the features and make
a tiny ski cap of paper or cloth. Bits of arms andIl
legs can be bent up for hands and feet and emory,l
boards or toothpicks glued to the feet for skile
Legs and arms are easily twisted into many comi-l
cal positions. Tie a bright piece of cloth around‘
the necks of your skiers for scarves and let them
perform on a snow-white banquet cloth.

Guests can complete the evening by toasting
marshmallows, apples, nuts, and still—frozen toes?
It will probably take several hours to thaw 0111
well-snowed contestants and several days to lim-‘
ber up the joints of exhausted carnivalites, but
your backyard winter carnival will be remem:
bered as the winning event of the winter season.

l

Winter Sports in California's "Southland"



 

l the southland of California, a state-wide win-
ter sports committee was organized in 1930
inder the sponsorship of the California State
Chamber of Commerce. The object was the promo-
ion of winter sports. This committee was com-
)osed of railway and oil company officials and
'epresentatives of retail and wholesale organiza-
ions as well as civic groups. The general organi-
-ation was broken down into subcommittees:
Newspaper publicity, radio publicity, billboard
liublicity, motion pictures, oil company coopera-
ion. department store cooperation, and snow re-
‘noval. Later on, the Winter Sports Committee of
riouthern California was created with the same
ype of representation as the state-wide committee.
Out of these two committees grew hundreds of

INITIATle the development of winter sports in

-p'irganizations of winter sports enthusiasts. At
"I iresent there are five major ski clubs, hockey
,‘ eagues, skating clubs. Winter sports groups in

.chools, colleges, and universities sponsor cross
:ountry skiing, open up ski trails, construct ski
iuts for overnight trips, promote skating tourna-
~ nents, and, in fact, cover the whole field of winter
ports activities.

Commercial groups with an interest in winter
ports profit by participants who visit winter sports
.reas. Thousands of miles of travel in automo-
iiles means that the consumption of gasoline is

By JAMES K. REID
Superintendent
Department of Recreation
County of Los Angeles
California

Since l930 California
has been actively pro-

moting a successful
winter sports program

increased, the sale of tires and all other automobile
accessories increases.

Winter sports today demand appropriate cloth-
ing and additional business results from the sale
of clothing and equipment. In Los Angeles twelve
major firms, including two national concerns, reg—
ularly stock winter sports merchandise. During
the early part of the winter the stores stage win-
ter sports fashion shows; a number of clothing
manufacturing concerns style winter sports gar-
ments and manufacture them. Knitting mills are
particularly active. The fashion world is looking
toward Hollywood for winter sports designs.

\Ve do not contend that this is exclusively a
Southern California activity, but we do claim that
it is a plan that has made Southern California
snow conscious.

The Los Angeles County Department of Rec-
reation inaugurated a first attempt to popularize
winter sports in California in the winter of 1927-
1928. The Erst installations were a small tobog—
gan slide and an ice rink. Then a medium size ski
jump was installed. The Winter Sports Carnival
held that winter has become an annual affair.
Later we constructed a large ski jump which has
provided facilities for many ski events in which
such well-known ski jumpers as Casper Oimend,
Ray M ikkelson, Ralph Wingaard, Alf Engen (who
made a record jump at Big Pines of 257 feet),

549

550 WINTER SPORTS IN CALIFORNIA’S “SOUTHLAND”

Halver Hvalstad, Paul Christensen, Rudd Broth—
ers, and Otto Anderson (the champion of Norway

who exceeded Engen’s jump by eleven feet)
jumped from the Master Ski Hill at Big Pines.

The snow conditions in California are quite sat-
isfactory. To be fairly satisfactory for skiing,
snow must be at least fifteen inches deep and the
temperature must be around the zero mark. In
the California mountains the snow falls fast and
deep. It packs hard and takes a long time to melt.
The first fall of snow, usually in December, begins
the season and good skiing continues until about
March I 5th. Some of the higher mountain eleva-
tions have very good skiing into June and often
through the Fourth of July.

The problem of transportation to the ski areas
'is quite important and quite different from East-
ern states. As the areas are centralized along
steep mountainsides or in valleys, a considerable
amount of traffic congestion is involved, resulting
in serious parking difficulties. For instance, dur-
ing a ninety day period in 1938, 91,274 persons
attended Big Pines; to transport them 24,378 auto—
mobiles were required. The day that Alf Engen
jumped 257 feet 25,000 people crowded the area.

The companion activity of skiing is skating.
Snugly fitted into the mountain canyons are out-
door skating rinks, large and small, which com-
pare in use to larger rinks in this country.

Yosemite has been holding the California State
Figure Skating Championship for years. At one
time four state-wide skating clubs, with the com—
bined interests of the California clubs, were part
of the National Club of the United States and
many major ice hockey leagues.

Records show that at our Tenth Annual Winter
Sports Carnival many talented young women well
known in the skating world have offered popular
entertainment in fancy skating at the Big Pines
rink. University students came to attempt to break
the collegiate speed skating records. As many as
two thousand people were enjoying the skating fa-
cilities each week end.

In order to place winter sports events in their
order of importance regarding attendance in Los
Angeles County these figures may be cited:

Event In Operation Persons
Junior Ski Jump 90 days 18,216
Master Ski Jump 2 events 14,550
Wild Cat (estimated) 90 days 11,000
Ice Rink 38 days 10,548
Toboggan 10 weeks (approx.) 4,286

Table Mountain Ski Fields 90 days (approx.) 4,000

These figures do not take into account the many'
hundreds of skiers who, intent upon getting out
for a tour, left no account as to their numbers.

The Table Mountain Ski Fields at Big Pines,
are used more or less as a schooling ground. 
ski captain engaged to give free lessons in the;
rudiments of skiing is stationed in the ski fields”;
to lend assistance to all who may require it. This,
method of promotion has produced splendid ref,
sults as some 713 skiers availed themselves of this)
instruction during the months of January and;
February 1940._

In many ways winter is the most exciting sea}.
son for the California lover of the outdoors. It:
brings to California the happiest contrast of any,
season. Some groups object to publicizing the fact;
that there is snow in California. Many organizafi
tions proceed on the theory that the proper advertis;
ing should be perpetual sunshine with ocean bathing ;
365 days of the year. We believe, however, that;
the tourists and residents of California came here,
from the East to avoid constant cold weather and
the resulting confinement indoors for long periodé
rather than to avoid the snow itself. Thus skating 3
on an outdoor rink or sliding down a snow-cov-i
ered mountain with the sun shining overhead isl
not an objectionable feature at all. In fact, last«
winter a man who was skiing at Soda Springs in
Northern California related this story:

“I skied through the area for several hours. 1
had on ski trousers made of serge, a thin sweater
such as I use for golf, and the usual summer un;
dergarments. I was so warm that I had to removg
the sweater and stop in the shade to cool off. Thai
night, New Year’s Eve, I drove from one resort t;
another and the thermometer was registering as-
low as nine below zero.”

   

This instance bears out a previous statemenrfj
that clothing is one of the important factors 0';
skiing in California. ’

The growth of interest in winter sports has
taught us many things. If we expect our areas t<
be patronized, much care and attention must bf
given to first aid and to winter sports bulletin:
giving depth of snow and weather and road con;
ditions. Ski runs must be kept well posted. Park-
ing areas must be kept free of snow. Policing
must be provided for the purpose of protecting
the public against snowballing and improper us:

of facilities.

A New Year’s Eve Celebration

i; HAT CAN be done for
q the fun—loving young
people who go out
~:ach New Year’s Eve in
' earch of a good time un-
. poiled by rough housing and rowdyism?
Early in January 1939, and again in November
: -f the same year, the staff members of the Tren-
on, New Jersey, Y.M.C.A. met to discuss this
‘ roblem, particularly in its relation to Trenton
'outh. The celebration to welcome in the year
:940 seemed to create a particularly difficult sit-
, .ation since December thirty-first fell on a Sun-
I ay. Following considerable discussion at the sec-
':nd meeting the staff members decided to attempt
|k solution of their own on the coming New Year’s
.«Lve.
The following day the general secretary of the
i’.M.C.A. raised the New Year’s Eve question
il'efore the Trenton Council of Churches. The
. :lergy, deeply interested in the subject, discussed
1': at length, and it was decided that four or five
ilhurches in the city which provided for natural
' eographic areas might be opened for the youth in
o nose districts on New Year’s Eve, and that the
ihurches in each area might cooperate in planning
.l n adequate program. The Council then voted to
Istablish a committee to study the New Year’s
live question.

I

 

u The committee laid the project before a group

d'f lay church youth leaders and representative

. ‘ youth from the churches, who immediately endorsed

‘ he plan. Together they decided that the Y.M.C.A.

:hould carry out the program in the Y.M.C.A.

’ luilding under the sponsorship of the Council of
' Churches.

q Contact was made with the pastors and the
'Iloung people’s groups of the various churches,
Hind sixty-six young people responded to a call
; her a meeting of representa—
wilVeS. At this gathering the
- wepresentatives were assigned
: ,0 working groups, each
group meeting for forty-five
:5: “innutes with a Y.,M.C.A.
secretary to plan different

bases of the evening’s en-

' :rtainment. The sections as- as Midsummer's

l

When l94l joins the procession of
years, how will the young people
of your city greet the newcomer?

"When we celebrate the first day of the
new year we are following a custom that
dates back to the very dawn of our civi-
lization; for nearly all peoples have ob-
served a new year's celebration though
the time has varied widely—sometimes
as early as the autumnal equinox about

September 2lst. and sometimes as late
Day, June 22nd."

sembled after the forty—
five minutes and pooled
their recommendations.

“Icebreaker of 1940”
was the name selected for
the frolic. A committee member in the printing
business received an order to print the invitations
which would then be distributed by the committee
in the churches on the following Sunday. A sec-
ond committee planned the program for the early
hours of Sunday evening; a third prepared a
watch night service. A ten piece orchestra was
engaged. Each young peOple’s group was asked to
select its own chaperones.

The following Sunday tickets were released and
distributed through church young people’s groups.
Tickets, "$1.00 stag” and “$1.50 drag,” included
the cost of breakfast. Reservations were set at
four hundred, with ticket returns to be in by Fri-
day, December twenty-ninth. Friday came and
ticket returns showed reservations well over the
four hundred mark. All day Friday, Saturday,
and SUnday calls came to the Y.M.C.A. for more

tickets. An estimate put the extra demand at more
than five hundred.

The decorating committee was at hand at two
o’clock on Sunday. Soon the gym in the Y.M.C.A.
was transformed into a veritable fairyland; pink
and blue ribbons hung from center rings and three
gross of balloons were suspended from the ceiling
in cellophane'bags. Paper hats, serpentines, and
noisemakers had been ordered in advance. Every-
thing was ready.

At nine o’clock the first young people arrived,
and from then on the two men at the door were
kept busy. No one was admitted without a ticket
and no tickets were sold at the door. The check-
room facilities were taxed to the utmost as 561
young people of high school and college age
trekked into the Y.

The program in the audi-
torium began at ten o’clock——
entertainment, community
singing and a quiz in which
contestants represented the
churches. At 11:15 all lights
were extinguished as com-
mittee members carried

551

552 A NEl/V YEAR’S EVE CELEBRATION

lighted candles into the hall. A watch night ser-
vice was conducted and one of the pastors ad-
dressed the group.

At 11 :45 the guests went into the gymnasium,
receiving noisemakers and hats. Quiet reigned in
the gym as the second hand on the clock ap-
proached twelve o’clock. Then pandemonium
broke loose! The orchestra started playing “Auld
Lang Syne” but was drowned out by the cheering
and the noise. A snake dance emerged, hemmed
in on all sides by the cheering crowd on the floor.
Ten minutes later the dancing started.

The cafeteria had been opened for free punch
and the sale of other refreshments. An amplifier

carried the dance music to this room. The bowl-
ing alleys were open and soon over a hundred
young people were to be found there. The ping—
pong and billiard tables were put into use. A log
fire in the foyer attracted a large group as did the
decorated lounges on the second floor.

Many other individuals tried to enter the Y dur-
ing the early morning but they were kept out.
Even pastors returning from watch night services
had to identify themselves before they were ad-
mitted.

Starting at two o’clock breakfast was served.
but few went down at this early hour, for the
other parts of the program were too interesting.

The orchestra was engaged until three o’clock.
About 2:45 twelve hundred packages of serpen-
tine were distributed on the dance floor. Rip cords
were pulled, releasing the balloons in the cello-
phane bags, and as the balloons floated down
among the paper streamers the dancers punctured
them. Lights flashed amidst the shouts and laugh-
ter and general gaiety.

Then came the rush for breakfast, and during
the next hour and a half every facility of the
cafeteria was used to capacity. About a hundred
young people sang around the fireplace until the
busses started running at nve o’clock in the
morning.

All during the night there had been not a single
evidence of liquor and no rowdyism or rough
housing.

A deluge of telephone calls told of the success
of the party during the next few days. The Coun-
cil of Churches expressed appreciation at a meet—
ing on the following morning; pastors who had
personally opposed the dance were glad to join in
this expression. Parents were enthusiastic in their
thanks. Letters were received from boys and girls
who had returned to college. Parents in other

cities, having heard about the party from thei1
own boys and girls who were college classmates of
Trenton young people, wrote to ask about th:
party. Official boards of churches in their Janu-
ary meetings voted on and forwarded these to thc
Y.M.C.A.

The Y.M.C.A. has agreed to extend the use oj
its facilities to welcome in the year 1941. Non;
church young people want similar parties; young
married couples are asking for consideration. Tho;
success of this venture indicates clearly one im;
portant conclusion. The provision of adequatg
facilities for well planned entertainment on New}
Year’s Eve will bring a great response fron
young pe0ple and parents alike. Trenton recorri
mends such a celebration wholeheartedly.

A New Year’s party for twelve people is del
scribed in “Successful Farming.” The first activity :1
is hat making. An assortment of crepe and tissu]
paper of all colors is brought into the room ang
placed on a large table convenient to all. Thinil
bles, pins, needles, spools of colored thread, rolll
of colored paper, ribbon, artificial flowers fronl
cast-off hats and other materials are supplied, an;
the guests are told that they must make some kin:
of headdress. They may use any color or kind 9
material furnished, but the products must be hat
suitable for the different months of the yea:
though the month is to be kept a secret! Then i:
a whisper each guest is told which month his ha
is to represent. A bell is rung and twenty minute
are allowed for making the hats. Here are a fei
hints for hats:

January—beret, skating cap, toboggan cap
February—cocked hat, tall silk hat (Lincoln’s)
March—green “stove-pipe” hat, Irish paddy’s hag
April—dunce’s cap, funny umbrella—like hat

M cry—flowery, springlike hat, May Queen’s crow 5.
J zme—white bridal veil, mortar board *’
July—replica of Uncle Sam’s hat
August—bathing cap, any floppy summer hat
Septmnber—school cap, beret, stylish fall hat
October—witch’s hat, orange and black masquerad
November—Pilgrims’ hats for men and women“
December—-Santa Claus hat, red and green hat

At the end of the allotted time the bell rings at}
all work ceases. Hats are placed on their maker.
heads and are judged after the players tell th
months represented. Guests are requested to wea
their hats all the evening, and they are called b
name of the month they represent. Calendai
make attractive prizes. ’

  
  
 
    
 
  
  

Winter Activities in Minneapolis

) ’THE WINTER season is

an extremely inter-
esting and popular

one in this area where
U’rthere are so many opportunities
for all kinds of activities. Our
' parks and lakes make it possible
for everyone to enjoy skating,
,tobogganing, skiing, and every
‘. outdoor sport one might desire. In addition to the
outdoor activities, many of our parks and play-
Itgrounds have buildings suitable for indoor activi-
ties such as craft games, parties, dancing and
'highly organized games such as basketball and

' i volleyball.

' The municipal hiking club provides outdoor ac-
ltivity for a large number of people interested in
ihiking. During the last year 106 hikes were sched-
uled, and the 5187 hikers who attended covered
‘ 529 miles. The skiing clubs are growing steadily
and rapidly, now having a membership of ninety-
”three. The figure and speed skating groups are
i also growing. Eight races were held last year with
3 2,652 participants and 50,000 spectators. The park
'. rinks are the practice ground for most of our
.l [speed and figure skaters. Powderhorn Park has
'ia speed track and most of the contests are held
llvthere each year with contestants coming from the
entire northwest and even Canada.

 

Several of the larger parks provide ample room
for ski and toboggan enthusiasts from the begin-
pner to the professional, from the tiny tot to grey-
i haired grandmothers.

 

 

Eskimo Day

The park recreation program also cares for the
hundreds of children who may not be skaters or
ski and toboggan experts. An “Eskimo Day” was
!started last year for girls. The week or two pre-
ceding the special day was spent in practicing the

' events and in making equipment to be used. The
1iiinal day was one of our coldest days last year,
but in spite of this both old and young came out
{to watch and participate in the activities. Ribbons
.lwere the only awards. This year the boys will be
included for we found that they felt very much

illeft out—thUS the event will be a winter Play
. day for all.

Not forgetting Eskimo Day, a popular
event in the City of Parks and Lakes

By HAZELLE ERICKSON

Recreation Supervisor
Board of Park Commissioners

A bulletin was sent
out suggesting events
for the day, and many
new and novel ideas
were added. With more time for
planning and a bigger variety of
games, “Eskimo Day” will be
just as popular an event as the
track and play day in the spring.
Events suggested—Were shufHe ice, swish boating,
snow hockey, and snowshoeing.

Shuffle ice was merely an adaptation of shuf—
Heboard played on ice. In some sections the shuf-
Heboard equipment was used, and at others old
brooms and a disc of wood made up the equip-
ment.

Swish boating proved to be popular with adults
as well as children. A sailboat is made of the
end of an apple box about six inches long with
one sail. A whisk broom or hockey broom is
swished fast behind the boat, as in curling. In-
stead of sweeping behind the boat, it was found
that the ever-present Wind was sufficient to sail
the boats. Much experimenting was done with
various kinds of materials and with the size of
the sails.

Children enjoyed the snowshoeing on card-
board snowshoes and various forms of races and
relays were used.

Snow hockey for girls has become a real game,
and even those girls who were ice hockey-minded
are enjoying the game. Ice hockey is definitely not
a girls’ game and we find snow hockey is taking
its place. The rules are simple and few and the
equipment merely an old broom and a soccer ball.

The children were organized into tribes and
snow igloos were made. Totem poles were built
and dyed with colored paper. This modeling, of
course, was easy to encourage as Minneapolis has
had snow modeling as a winter hobby for years.
One may hnd modeling everywhere from top
heavy snowmen to figures twenty-live to thirty
feet in height that are really works of art. Ice
churches from which may be heard Christmas
hymns, huge prehistoric animals in snow, and
Indian heads with colored ice headdress are seen
and admired by thousands.

(Continued on page 564)
553

Planning a Winter Sports Area

HROUGH the generosity of J. Willard Hayden,
Tthe town of Lexington, Massachusetts, re-

cently acquired a piece of property twenty—
five acres in size adjacent to Center Playground,
a centrally located play area of the community. In
view of the unusual possibilities of the area, John
J. Garrity, Superintendent of Parks and Play-
grounds, requested the National Recreation As-
sociation to prepare a study for the subsequent
development of the property. Much progress has
already been made in carrying out the plan.

The entire area has been so treated as to
produce the atmosphere of an intown park. The
sketch shOWn below illustrates the design of a
multiple use area on the property with emphasis
on winter sports activities and other facilities nec-
essary to round out the opportunities offered

 
  
  
   
  
 

mim— f...- - DEVELODMEHT- of -
WI HTED ODOQTJQQECI -

lJDUHGTOH
II I. u. c w Ill IO.

SCRLI. of- ? ltT

"PREPGEEID BY

HRTIOHQL'RECDEQTIOH - H5$OCIFITIOH ,
NEW YOTZK C\TY

CENTEQ DLQYGPOUH

554

by the community for a diversified recreation
program. If '

The natural topography of this area lent itself;
well to the type of facilities shown. Unfortunately; I
the plan does not indicate topography, but it should '1
be noted.that there is a considerable slope frorrii
Lincoln Street (at the lower left corner of the
illustration) to the east end of the property. This; 1
natural incline provided an excellent location for:
coasting, skiing, and tobogganing facilities. A tog
boggan slide approximately nine hundred feet:
long, a ski slide, and a special coasting area for}
small children accordingly were planned on this.
portion of the property. ;

The sketch provides for the creation of an artifll
hcial lake. Not only does the lake add materiallyi

(Continued on page 565)

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

redity and the civic law of free speech still

exist in America. Send for free map

ii (35 x 35) showing where Americans come from.
LCouncil Against Intolerance in America, Lincoln

Building, New York City.

l Animals. The New N oah’s Ark, André Demai-
,‘lson. Macmillan Company, 294 pp.' $2.50. The ade
1 (venture of collecting African animals with a sail—
icing schooner.

“ Bird City, E. A. McIlhenny. Christopher Pub—
:lishing House, Boston, 203 pp. $3.00. A bird
. Jisanctuary narrative for two grandsons.
‘ Christmas Greens Show. The New England
“Wild Flower Preservation Society has an annual
«exhibition in Boston in November. Last year
Ezhere were eighty-eight entries, the largest ever

meld.

Conservation and the Wisconsin Teacher, Cal-
l'aoun, W. T., et a1. Wisconsin Conservation De-
lpartment, Madison. Suggestions for boys and
Q girls.

. Conservation. \Nayne Shields, Allegheny Col-
liege Outing Club, nature-grams how to combine
fun of regular meetings plus the satisfaction of
Lassisting understaffed
{game departments. They
:secure feed for snow-
I :Jound birds from game
[organizations A-skiing
[then they go to out of
the way game lands
where grain is distributed.

1 AMERICANISM. The biological law of he-

 

Conservation. New
England Wild Flower
Preservation Society,

l The utterly devastating
ll effects of fires in our
forests are evident in

‘ this picture of a burned

} area in the Beartooth

l, Mountains of Montana

l

Inc., Horticultural Hall, Boston, Eighteenth An-
nual Report. 246 lectures in schools and camps;
7,000 booklets for Maine teachers on conservation
week. New Hampshire and Connecticut also pub-
lish conservation pamphlets. Experiments on mar—
keting evergreens in New Hampshire, and new
legislation on cutting evergreens in Rhode Island.
Proposed to Massachusetts Conservation Council
a conservation van to visit camps and county fairs.
NOW planning for another trip in 1941.

Fishing. What Tackle and When, colored pic-
tures with description, 128 pp. South Bend Bait
Company, South Bend, Indiana.

Forest Fires. Again the fall fire season is here.
Most of the fires are started by human careless—
ness. The same old ounce of prevention holds.
To be successful there must be wholehearted co-
operation of everyone using the forest. Practice
what you preach and preach what you practice.

Forestry as a Career. Institute for Research,
537 South Dearborn Street, Chicago. $1.00.

Forest Outings, by thirty foresters. Forest Ser-
vice, Washington, 75 cents. Must be that forest
technicians are now unanimous in recognizing rec-
reation as a forest product.

 

Photo by Reynold Carlson

555

556 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

Gardening. Josephine Black—
stock, Oak Park Playground
Board, nature-grams that they
have been given a small hot
house and the children are
learning from the soil up. May

Oak Park children know their
beans!

Gardens. A wild flower garden is maintained
in the chief city park of Toledo by a woman’s
garden club. M. R. Van Cleve, school department.

Handcraft. Alice Beyer, Chicago Park District.
nature—grams that satisfactory new fall jewelry
may be made from pine cones, corn, nuts, and
beans combined with leather, felt or string. and a
dash of paint.

Insects. Elm leaf beetle scourge. The prema—
ture browning of the elms last summer was due
to the European beetle which was introduced in
about 1838. If you do not enjoy the sight, arouse

your friends to the need of spraying with lead
arsenate late next June.

Inventors. Inventors honored by stamps in
October are Whitney, Morse, McCormick, Howe.

and Bell. Three of these inventors were born in
Massachusetts.

“Know Your Community” program. By means
of a large gas station map take your audience on

a local trip. Visit beauty spots, quarries, parks.
and historic sites. Have a “Professor Quiz” roll
call and bird game. As a climax serve generously
with maple sugar (if Vermont), beans (if Bos-
ton), or clams (if Cape Cod).

Literature Gern. “Science and peace will triumph
over ignorance and war.”——Louis Pasteur (1822—

I895)-

Mnscles. Opportunity for reference rather than
memorizing. Send for chart (16x 22), W. F.
Young, Inc., Springfield, Massachusetts.

Natnre Books. The Cleveland Public Library
has a book information service in the form of

booklists. “Keys to Nature” and “\tho’s Who
Among Animals” are the titles of two such leaflets.
Nature Game
I. \Vhere was Admiral Byrd last summer?
United States

2. Where would you look for sun if at South
Pole on March 21?

3. How long will his party see the sun?

Horizon

Six months (if at South Pole).

4. In what direction is his headquarters from the
South Pole? North

One way to increase the use of the
Nature-Grams. Dr. Vinal suggests. is
to make them easier to use. Hereafter '
they will be given a subject title and
will be arranged alphabetically. If
you are filing them on the card
index plan. all nature trail items' for
example. will appear together.

5. When did daylight com-
mence at the South Pole? ‘
September 21 ;
6. Who will order Byrd to go(- l
to South Pole? To come,‘
back? United States Navy.

7. How many branches of:
Natural Science is his ex:

pedition recording? Fifteen
8.-During what time of the year is the snow
cruiser being used? Now;

9. What would coal deposits suggest about the.
climate of the past? Warmer.

IO. What are their four R’s of recreation? ,
Radio, reading, ’riting, ’rithmetic.

A Nature-gram a day will keep moldy ideas:
away. ‘

Nature Lore in Schools. The Massachusetts,
Audubon Society is offering a conservation proj—j-
ect from October to May. The instructor prof;
vided is Kenneth V. Pike, a graduate of Massa—,~
tllUSCttS State College. The characteristics of thejl
course. based on personal experiences of the chil-‘ 

dren, the club way, field trips, home projects, sea— I

_ sonal needs. and the avoidance of lectures. are ,

significant.

Park Conservation. Signs in Cleveland Parks: I

“Let no one say I
To your shame
That all was beauty
Until you came.”

Roose'z'elt, Theodore. A photograph (21 x28)?
excellent for framing for a nature club room.
Free from American Defense Society, 225 Fifth
Avenue, New York City.

Safety Education. The oldest recorded d0g is

twenty—two years. Pedigreed dogs average ten'

l

 

 

years. Chase-the—car dogs have the shortest lives.
In your community do street gamins or playground r“
inhabitants live longer?

Trails. The Great Trail of New England, by"
Harrol Ayres. Meador Publishing Company, Bos-
ton. 444 pp. $2.50. The Seventeenth Century path
which settlers followed westward from Boston.

Transportation. Outline history from 1400
B. C. to present day. Fisher Body Division, Ger.—
eral Motors Corporation, Detroit, Michigan, 68
pp. Illustrated. Free.

Tree Giants. The American Forestry Associa-:
tion wants every forest explorer to aid in locat-
ing and preserving our country’s largest native

(Continued on page 570)

l

l

Winter Wanderings

RE YOU a summer devotee
A of nature? Do you, when
birds migrate to warmer
latitudes and chill winds blow
and leaves fall fast and faster,
rush hastily indoors to sit
shiveringly beside a steam radi—
ator and think longineg of
spring blossoms or balmy sum—
mer evenings, only venturing
out when urgency demands, shutting car windows
tight, complaining of the inadequacy of the heater
and the condition of the roads? Or are you, per-
haps, one of those robust individuals who, scorne
fully unmindful of winter’s chill breath, merrily
rides a mechanical lift to the top of some hill
only to go rushing madly down on wooden wings,
the whole performance to be repeated as fre-
quently as possible?

If you belong to the former unfortunate group,
do break the chains of your lethargy, bundle up
warmly, and get out of doors on a brisk autumn
day! You’ll find, to your surprise, that it isn’t
half bad———and the chances are that your steam-
heated house or apartment will feel uncomfortably
overheated upon your return. Or get out into the

‘ fields in the hush of winter, on a day not too cold,
and, keeping all senses alert, learn to read the

. l

signs of nature in winter as keenly and zestfully
as you did with the bird club last spring or in that
nature group at camp last summer. And in late
winter when, after months of dark, dreary cold,
you are sure spring will never come, follow along

j some frozen streambed or take a turn through
i fields and woods, and let the signs you see reas-

' .

sure you of spring’s sure coming—and at a not-—
too-distant time.

Try Some Climbing

If you are a ski addict—and who isn’t who has
once experienced the glorious thrill of a success-
ful flight without an ignominious spill at the'bot-
tom or a too sudden encounter with an intervening
rock or tree, not to mention the later achievement
of linked stems or, better yet, christianias, placed
with beautiful precision upon a snowy slope? If
you are a ski addict, I repeat, pause once in a while
in your mad pursuit of sport and look about you.

If you are only a summer
devotee of nature and not
a winter enthusiast you
are missing a great deal!

By HELEN HENRY

Pasadena. California or

Just once in a While, for a
change, leave the mechanical
ski lift to others and use your
own legs for climbingw—it’s
good for them, and good for
your wind, too, and will make
you a better, stronger down—
hill skier. And while you’re
doing a traverse, why not di—
verge a few rods to study the
track of a questing fox or inquisitive rabbit, or
pause to investigate a pile of chips and shards left
at the dining table of a squirrel? While side-step-
ping up a steep slope, why not look about you, as
you pause for breath, at the blue shadow pat—
terns on the snow and at the color in the win-
try landscape, less vivid than the jackets and caps
of your companions but there nevertheless? Even
the arduous exercise of herringboning up a steep
slope offers fine opportunity for a study of snow
crystals and the varying textures and layers of
snow under varying conditions, temperatures, and
exposures. Perhaps, too, just such a study will
help you decide on the best wax for your next
downhill run—but don’t fail to notice the beau-
tiful hexagonal forms of snow crystals when con-
ditions are just right.

And There Are Fall Walks

Do not miss the delights of a walk through
fields and woods in late autumn. The pleasure of
scuffing through dry leaves is a happy reminder
of childhood to even the most austere adult. Ex-
perience again the delicious crunching sound and
note the woodsy smell of the leaf carpet and the
pungency of lichens and fungi on logs and
stumps. Or, if you’re in an evergreen forest, feel
the resiliency of the needled carpet beneath your
feet and sniff the tangy air about you. Observe
the quiet brownness of the streams, half choked
with leaves, and perhaps see a frog 0r two, or a
small salamander, that has not yet hibernated.
Perhaps a squirrel will scurry by, belatedly hoping
to add some hitherto overlooked morsel to his
winter store. A few birds may be seen, gathering
frequently now in small companies of several
species but similar food habits, their cares of
courtship, mating and rearing of young over for

557

558 WINTER IVANDERINGS

the nonce. Most of the birds of bright plumage
have gone southward, but here and there a flash
of red or blue may proclaim a cardinal or ,jay, or
a smaller patch of crimson be the cap of a wood-
pecker, or a scrap of gold betray the presence of
a kinglet. Some fruits, too, not yet garnered in by
man or shy wild creature, lend color to the land-
scape in late autumn. Here and there may be
found the flame-like bittersweet berries along a
fence, yonder glow the dark red panicles of sumac,

while here at your feet, perhaps, are the bright.

scarlet globed fruits and glossy dark green leaves
of wintergreen and partridge berries. If you live
where native hollies grow, enjoy their color also,
or if in a region of apple or persimmon trees,
perchance their bare branches may still bear stray
globes of color overlooked in the autumn harvest-
ing and as yet secure
against wintry winds.
Study seed pods and the
dry stalks of what were
flowers a few short weeks
ago. Note the beauty of
desiccated goldenrod, with
its tiny stars of sepals,
flower—like in their own
right long after the golden
fuzz has gone. Observe
the curious teazle with its
strong slender spines. See
how the prickliness of a
thistle persists even after
buffeting by autumn wind
and rain. Discover the
empty, boat-shaped pods of the milkweed, to
which, perhaps, clings a gossamer web or two of
the dainty filaments which bore the little flat
brown seeds over the farmer’s land. Look up
into bare bushes and trees. Note the insect galls,
the winter buds, the leaf scars. Look higher,
against the sky, and see how many birds’ nests
you can see, now that the trees are bare. Perhaps,
at last, you’ll discover that vireo’s nest you just
couldn’t find last summer. And listen to the quiet
of the autumn woods and fields, seldom broken
except by the noise of your own passage or per-
haps the ghostly rubbing of bare branch on branch

high in the treetops. All nature seems to bear an
air of hushed waiting.

Woods in the Snow

When winter really comes, and snow carpets the
ground, go again into the woods and fields. Gone,

"Truly every season of the year is excellent
for hiking. lf spring and summer sing so
sweet a song to all lovers of the open, how
powerful indeed is the lure of the falling,
colored leaves of autumn when summer's heat
is gone and the woods are cool and clean.
And who would deny the glories of a hike in
deep snow over winter _trails! The clearer.
cleaner winter air is rich in oxygen and all
about. wherever the eye may roamI the world
is decked in gently curving, colored beauty.
Snow crystals or glistening twigI bright win-
ter stars, or purple shadows on the trail.
lake and woods present a picture long to be
cherished by those who venture into the snow-
covered outdoors." —- From Hiket’s Guide.

now, is the crackle of leaves beneath your feet.
Listen, instead, to the crunch of snow as it packs
under your boot heel, or the soft sigh of it drop-
ping from the webs of snowshoes, or swishing and
singing beneath your skis. Hear, too, the whish
and p10p of snow falling from overburdened
branches, perhaps to strike in an icy, tingling mist
upon your unsuspecting head. See how individu-
ally colorful the trees are against the snow, and
how readily you can learn to tell them apart by A
their color, arrangement of bark pattern, and
depth of grooves and fissures. Look upward to-
ward the top of a hill or at the edge of a cliff and
learn to distinguish, by their characteristic con— ‘
tour, various'trees both deciduous and evergreen.
Study again the leaf scars and winter buds, not-
ing the rich color of some of the latter. For you
who like to make collec-
tions a study of these is .,
well worth while. And for
more color seek out some
sheltered nook or bit of
ground exposed to sun—
light but protected from
wind and find there a few
ferns persistent in their
greenness. See how vividly .
colorful are the mosses
and lichens on some tree
trunk or exposed rock at
this time of year. Discover
how interesting and color-
ful are the woodSy browns
and slatey grays of some
of the less conspicuous birds. Perhaps you can
approach thrillingly close to a pheasant or a covey
of quail, those shy birds so elusive last autumn
when your hunter friends were afield. Listen for j
a chickadee announcing his name, or the soft _‘
tinkle-bell note of a junco, or watch a persistent -’
little creeper work his way up a tree trunk in quest 1
of insects while a nuthatch just as persistently ‘;
works headfirst down.

Winter is an ideal time for beginning bird study
as there are comparatively few species and the
leafless trees and snow-covered ground enhance
visibility. A bird-feeding station will add much
to the pleasure of this study. Grain, such as
cracked corn, wheat and millet, and sunflower
seeds are welcomed by the seed eaters, while the
insect eaters enjoy a diet of suet (held in wire
mesh containers) and peanut butter. The making
of such feeding stations may be a craft project, '

_i roamed many miles.

WINTER I/VANDERINGS

and the maintaining of them the object of winter
hikes. The need for regular maintenance through-
out the winter of such a feeding station, once
established, cannot be over-emphasized. Birds
soon come to depend on such offered bed, and
they need it badly when deep snows hide their
natural food sources and intense cold demands
plenty of food to maintain body temperatures and
thus withstand the effect of cold.

The Study of Tracks

When you are walking, snowshoeing, or ski-
touring through field and wood, spend some time
following and studying tracks. A good tracking
snow is a wet snow and one not too deep—bad
conditions for ski sport but excellent for nature
study. Observe how tracks betray their makers.
Here is the neat, direct track of a fox, there the
record of the easy-going, indifferent shufflings of
a skunk. Here a rabbit leisurely crossed this open
spot, and there he speeded up his pace to pop
safely into the woodchuck burrow beneath yon-
der tree. Here a small meadow mouse made a
perilous journey safely, leaving a lacy pattern in
the snow, and there the tiny shrew quested above
the snow and then tunneled beneath only to
emerge again in its everlasting search for food.

Birds leave comparatively few tracks, but every
now and then you see one. Perhaps quail and
pheasant have been visiting the feeding station
you have provided for them, protected so that
snow does not cover the grain on the ground and
offering several opportunities for escape or shelter
in case of a surprise attack by fox or cat or hawk
or other predator. The tracks of pheasant and
quail are similar, those of the latter being smaller
in size and showing no rear toe. Observe how
some animals move easily through snow, while
others struggle laboriously, and consider their re-
spective foot structures and body weights. Note,
too, how varying snow conditions affect their ac-
tivities, some faring well in
loose, soft snow while others
move freely over crust. Some-
times the record is but a few
feet long, from burrow to
burrow; sometimes a trail
ends in a tragedy of blood-
stained snow, sometimes the
animal whose tracks you read.

The writer once spent an
entertaining afternoon in the

I'Some day when you least expect it you
will see a robin, or a red-winged black-
birdI or a meadow lark. or some other
bird you have missed all winter and per-
haps envied for his winter holiday in a
warmer clime! Then
soon fields will be greening, birds will be
nestingI and the summer nature enthu-
siasts, with notebooks and glasses and
cameras, will be noisily swarming back
into the woods and fields you have
learned to love in their wintry solitude."

you will know that

559

California Sierra Nevadas endeavoring to follow
on skis (and, self-appointed stint, without once
removing them) the tracks of a bear that had
emerged from hibernation for a few hours to take
an exploratory ramble over logs and through
brush on a deceptively warm day in winter.

Do not emulate that bear and return to your
own hibernating den when spring seems disap-
pointingly distant. The swelling of the buds on
bare branches, the drip, drip of snow melting and
dropping from trees and bushes, the appearance
of occasional patches of black water, with their
attendant water insects, in hitherto ice-locked
rivulets, all bespeak the coming of another season.
Note how the alternate freezing at night and
thawing beneath a sun that rises higher in the
heavens week by week sometimes causes the snow
in open places to become aglitter with large crys-
tals. See how this same warmth, absorbed by
tree trunks, causes the snow to melt from around
each tree, frequently to a depth of several inches
or even feet-——~a trap for the unwary skier. (Some
skiers have such an affinity for trees!) Perhaps
you may hear the first love notes of birds, or wit-
ness their courtship behavior. You may be fortu-
nate enough to hear the drumming beats of wood-
peckers on dead limbs, which is said to be their
mating song, or you may hear the booming of a
ruffed grouse.

“All months are outing months to those who like
the out of doors. There are things to do when the
summer sun glistens on a mountain lake and when
the snow powders the trees and piles up in gray
drifts. Summer brings swimming and camping;
winter, skating, coasting, skiing and all the other
sports for snow and ice. But the sport which
knows no season’s limits is hiking, the universal
sport, and a great sport for mixed groups.

“You can hike on city streets or in the country.
Overnight hiking is the best of teachers in the
arts of homemaking. . . . If
you want to get acquainted
with yourself or someone else,
go on a hike. The heat or
cold, the rain or snow and the
lonely hours of midnight, the
glorious sunrise—all will tell
you more than anything else
in the world. And every hike
is an experience to treasure.”
m—Jlfary I. 876012 in Partners

in Play.

What They Say About Recreation

” EMOCRACY is simply a principle of growth.
It rests on the long experience of the race
that men do not grow, learn and create

except when they are free, and that nations do not

grow, learn and create except when the individuals
in them are free. The basis of democracy is this
individual freedom, embodied in this country in
the Bill of Rights.” From Editorial in The N ew
York Times.

“Versatility and understanding are needed in
working with youth. The requirements are simi-
lar to those of a musician—technical skill, intel-
lectual understanding, and emotional coloring.”—
Dr. Gilbert Wrenn, University of Minnesota.

“You can live without hiking—but not so well.”
—The lMinnehiker.

“No man ought to play any game unless he tries
his very best to win; and no man ought to play
unless he can take a defeat cheerfully. Games are
only a silly waste of time if the players are not
putting into them every ounce of resource they
may have; and they become a positive evil for
those who confuse them with the real conflicts of
life in which we have to meet principalities and
powers in no mimic warfare.”-—From Christian
Century.

“Assembly singing is the simplest and most di—
rect musical approach to the hearts of the people
and assures the leader that appreciation of music
is inborn. So, listeners, sing! Singers, keep on
singing! For singing is a universal medium of
music, the experience which leads to artistic
growth and to the deve10pment of a spiritual na-

ture or character.”—A. E. Wins/zip, Journal of
Education.

“We must plan on a larger scale to give Ameri-
can children a chance for healthful play and the
worthwhile use of leisure. I agree with you that
a democratic government has a vital interest in
these matters.” Franklin D. Roosevelt.

 

“Youth needs an education that takes leisure
seriously. In a changing world it needs schools

560

that are leisure-conscious. It needs an education
that makes the whole—hearted enjoyment of life
one of its goals. It needs an education that pro—
vides for a rich and developing inner life.”—

From The Youth of New York City.

“Although peace at the present time seems re—
mote for the nations of the world, it is still pos—
sible to achieve it individually-“peace through
happy, understanding relationships which home
and family life maintain; peace through receptive
attitudes toward daily work; peace through satis—
fying, creative leisure. As individuals we can do
little toward establishing a warless world, but each
of us can be a potent factor in finding spiritual

peace for ourselves and for our children.”— “

Virginia Kleteer, President, National Congress of
Parents and Teachers.

“Now more than ever before every factor in
our community life is being subjected to scrutiny
and evaluation in terms of the urgent demands of
national defense and preparedness. It is fitting

that recreation also be reviewed at this time and,‘

where necessary, be revitalized and re—aligned to
help produce a nation and a people capable of
meeting any eventuality.” '

“There is more to the folk song than the tune
of it; more to the dance than its form; more to
the myth than the tale it tells. In our traditional
expressions are reflected the social life of early
America, and the growing, changing, later Ameri-
ca. . . . The foundations of our basic cultures, as

found in the folk traditions, should be projectedg
into the future because their forms are funda-f
Our cultural and social life will be less:

mental.
rich if we lose them.”—Sarah Gertrude Knott.

“In the perhaps not so good old days people

took play for granted. They thought any child:
knew how to play and would find a way to amuse".

himself even on the city streets. . . . By now we”.

have learned that ‘all work and no play’ is as,
faulty a philosophy as its reverse. We know that;

boys—and girls—need to learn both how to work'.
and how to_play.”-———Franle Bane, National De-
fense Commission.

WORLD AT PLAY

 

IN THE last three
years the Highland
Bavarian Corporation
and the Lions Club of
Aspen, Colorado, were instrumental in construct—
ing a ski course, complete with ski lift, jump, and
clubhouse, which international experts find com-
parable to the best courses in Switzerland. A

A Modern Ski Course
for Colorado

A 1,400-foot toboggan—type ski lift raises skiers 550

feet to the slalom course and practice slope. The
downhill course starts at an elevation of 10,650
feet, drops vertically 2,700 feet in a slope distance
of 9,750 feet, and ends within the city limits of
Aspen. The fame of this course has spread
widely; this year the National Ski Association an-
nounced that its annual championship races in
,downhill and slalom skiing for 1941 will be held

u ' in Aspen.

CHILDREN of Hano-
ver, New Hampshire,
whose pocketbooks do
not permit of the pur-
:hase of ski equipment, have been outfitted by

Children Outfitted for
Winter Sports

‘ fraternities of Dartmouth College, following the

ead of, other New Hampshire communities which
nstituted the plan two or three years ago. Ad-

. ninistered by the Superintendent of Schools, the

:)1an provides equipment on a seasonal loan basis,
' :o be returned when broken or outgrown and re-

1 .
; polaced With new.

MORE THAN 1,000

skaters can be accom—

modated at the artifi—

cial ice rink in the new

' :ommunity building at Sault Ste. Marie, which is
.he only one of its kind in Michigan. The build—
.ng, which provides 16,000 square feet for skating
1nd recreation activities, was dedicated by the
:itizens at the third annual Upper Peninsula Win-
er Carnival. Dedication festivities brought to an
tnd an eighteen-year campaign for an adequate
ce stadium and community building to replace the
ld Sault rink which burned in February, 1922.
Nhen the stage of 2,200 square feet is in use,
.Ileachers andrarena floor will seat 5,500 people.—
From The American City, August 1940.

Skating Rink for a
Community Center

ON JANUARY 28th
Portland, Maine, held
a winter sports carni-
val at the golf course
with at least 8,000 people attending. Colored mo-
tion pictures were taken of the carnival. Several
reels of such movies on different recreational ac—
tivities conducted by the city have been developed.
These have been found very helpful in acquaint-
ing the different clubs and groups in the city with
what is being done along recreational lines.

A Winter Carnival
at Portland

AN OCTOBER play day
for girls was one of
the events sponsored
by the Department of
Public Recreation of Decatur, Illinois. All De—
catur girls were invited to bring their lunches, play
old and new games, and enjoy a treasure hunt.
Among the games played were dodge ball, relays,
bounce ball, softball, volleyball, paddle tennis,
clock golf, whirling circles, jump the broom, kick
ball, hopscotch, croquet, and deck tennis. Folk
dancing was also enjoyed.

October Play Pay
in Decatur

THE Park Department
of the City of New
York, in encouraging
private property own—
ers to plant street trees, has been assigning one of
its forestry representatives to inspect the planting
site and to recommend the quantity and species of
trees most adapted for the location. Private pr0p-
erty owners planted 763 such street trees during
the spring season of 1940.

A Tree Planting
Advisory Service

ON SEPTEMBER 15,
1940, Governor Sal-
tonstall of Massachu-
setts dedicated Skin—
ner Memorial Park at South Hadley, marking ac—
quisition by the state of a woodland area of ap-
proximately 450 acres surrounding and including
Mount Holyoke. The property was deeded to the
state by Joseph Skinner of South Hadley who had
inherited it from his father. Through two gener—
ations the Skinner family has maintained Mount
Holyoke for nature lovers. Among other improve-
ments the elder Mr. Skinner constructed the first
cog railway ever built in the United States.

Skinner Memorial
Park Dedicated

561

562 WORLD AT PLAY

 

‘ Here’s the W

New
DIMND

MW“ “'5‘.

, lb

   

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
madel Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
meni shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOEQBO.

46l0 GRAND AVENUE

' DULUTH. MINN.

Old Camp Area Now a Skiers’ Paradise——
Mayor Watson of romantic Alta, Utah, has de-
scribed the transformation of an old mining camp
area into what has been termed a “skiers’ para-
dise.” The old mining camp, he says, is now re-
ceiving a “shot in the arm” by the hardy ski rider.
The United States Government, through its
Wasatch National Forest, Salt Lake City, through
its recreation department, Utah Ski Club, Silver
Skis, Salt Lake County Commission, and others,
are building a fine, broad highway up Little Cot—
tonwood Canyon to Alta, making it possible for
winter sports enthusiasts to get into this famous
old district the year round.

A community ski center building is being
erected and private capital is constructing ski lifts
up the mountains surrounding the old town of
Alta, only a forty minute drive from Salt Lake
City. Sixty internationally famous ski riders
visited in this area last winter and reported that
Alta has the finest winter sports possibilities of
any area in the world. The Utah State Road Com-
mission and the Salt Lake County Commission
have made plans and purchased equipment for
keeping the highway cleared of snow during win-

 

 

ter months. The snow depth averages eleven feet
in the surrouding mountains of Alta. The aver-
age elevation in this area is 8,700 feet above sea
level. Therefore, the finest powder snow exists
in this area, affording line skiing for seven months
out of the year.

Aviation Club Leaders Attend School—A
school for leaders of junior aviation clubs was
held by Air Youth of America in Rockefeller
Plaza during October and November. The course
featured practical methods for teaching model
building and a general approach to junior avia-
tion club work. Leaders attending the school had
actual experience in building elementary model
planes. Methods of conducting model plane con—
tests were explained, an informal contest was ar— 1
ranged, and well-known leaders in the model plane '
field participated in the discussions.

WPA Makes Its Report—A condensed sum-
mary of the work completed by WPA during the
past live years—July 1, 1935 to July I, 1940—
gives the following figures regarding the recrea-
tional facilities: 2,521 playgrounds constructed.
and 8,413 improved; 2,630 athletic fields built and,
2,182 improved; 2,373 golf courses constructedl
and 4,315 improved. Other facilities built, recon—t 1
structed, or improved include handball, horseshoe,” '
and tennis courts, swimming and wading pools”
ice skating areas, ski trails and ski jumps, band. i
shells, and outdoor theaters.

Model Railroad Clubs—The American As-‘
sociation of Model Railroads urges the organiza—1 l
tion of model railroad clubs as a valuable recrea—. l
tional activity for boys. In response to a request-
sent recreation workers, according to a statement:
issued in the A.A.M.R. Bulletin for September, !
1940, more than thirty per cent of these recrea—r
tion workers who are conducting activities indoors;
expressed interest in model railroading. The as-.
sociation has a number of publications of interest’
to club leaders wishing to develop model railroad.
clubs. These include a leader’s manual, a hand:
book for model builders with practical suggestions
for the construction of equipment, and special
bulletins. These may be secured from the associa-
tion at 15 East 26th Street, New York City.

 

 

“Educational Dance”——-The May, 1940, issue'
of Educational Dance published by the Educa;
tional Dance Company at 8148 Mannix Drive,

WORLD AT PLAY 563

Hollywood, California, is a folk dance number.
It contains an article on “Folk Dancing” by Pa-
tricia Parmelee which describes some of the spe-
cial folk dance events of the year 1939, and re-
views trends and developments. There are also a
number of articles on folk dancing and a section
in which reports from a number of authorities on
folk dancing throughout the country are presented.
Educational Dance is secured by subscription only.
Ten issues, from September to June, are avail-
able at $1.00; 25 cents each for extra copies or

back issues.

“Children’s Institutions"-—Recreation work-
ers will be interested in knowing that a new maga-
zine known as Children's Institutions, the first
‘ issue of which appeared in August, contains arti-
cles by heads of institutions and leaders in the
field of children’s work. The magazine is pub-
lished by the Atkins Publishing Company, Inc.,
152 West 42nd Street, New York City. Price,
$3.00 per year in the United States and Canada;
$3.50 in other countries. A sample copy may be
secured on request.

Adapting Florida Schools to Community
Use—Mrs. Malcolm McClellan, president of the
Florida Congress of Parents and Teachers and
chairman of the School Recreation Committee,
writes that the State Department of Education is
recommending that all new school buildings built
in Florida have the auditorium, rest rooms, and
isimilar facilities built with an outside entrance
which may be used by the general public so that
these facilities may be closed Off from the regular
school rooms for community use. Seven acres
represent the minimum recommendation for school
grounds.

1941 Convention Is Announced—The 1941
convention of the Association for Childhood Edu-
cation will be held in Oakland, California, July
8th to 12th. The suggested theme for the con-
'vention is “Implications of Today’s Crucial Prob-
ilems for Teachers of Children.” With the con-
vention scheduled for the first time as a summer
meeting, many delegates, Mrs. Marcella King, pub-
licity chairman, suggests, will wish to remain in
California to attend the summer session at one of
the universities or colleges.

Lawn Bowling on the Coast—There are six
clubs in the Northwest Lawn Bowling Associa-

 

 

SMASH
GO
PRICES

 

 

 

on the genuine world-famous

“JUNGLEGYM"

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

The "perfect playground device" —as authori-
ties the world over have called the "Iunglegym"
Climbing Structure — is now available at new
prices more than 50 per cent below the former
level. Mass production, made possible by the
ever-growing demand for this item, has enabled
us to make these drastic price reductions. Write
for our descriptive booklet telling why the "Jun-
glegym" Climbing Structure is the safest, most
economical, most educational, most all-around
desirable play apparatus you can buy. New
prices are quoted with the booklet.

Send for our beautiful new Recreation Equipment
Catalog. iust oii the press!

m 1. n. pon'rnn whom...

OTTAWA t ILLINOIS

 

Manufacturers of the famous "London." "Chicago" and "Spaldinq"
lines of playground. swimming pool and gymnasium equipment

 

 

tion, two of them in Seattle and one in each of
the following cities: Bellingham, Renton, and
Tacoma, Washington, and Portland, Oregon. The
membership of_ the six clubs is approximately 300.
In the Tacoma club alone there are fifty-live en-
thusiastic members, twelve of whom are women.

UN and HEALTH PITCH
-  HUHSESHDES

 Indoors or outdoors with
' Giant Grip Rubber Pitch-
' ing Shoes. Put up in sets
consisting of rubber
* mats. rubber shoes and
1 aluminum stakes. pack-
ed in attractive box.
Shoes are unbreakable.
positively guaranteed.

._.-- -—-———

B h Giant Grip Rubber Pitch-
Ox 5 0w" ing Shoes are made of

open with complete set tough grade of rubber
vulcanized to a flexible metal insert—-less bounce with this
construction. Can be

played on hard floors.
but last longer used
with rubber mats. If your
sporting goods dealer
doesn't have Giant Grip
sets, write for descrip-
tive folder. and tell us
his name.

GIANT GRIP MFG. CO.

 

Box shown closed.

OSHKOSH. WISCONSIN

564 PVORLD AT PLAY

YOUR PROBLEM SOLVED in the Big December issue of
JUNIOR ARTS and ACTIVITIES

From cover to cover this big issue is full of practical Christmas projects and ideas to use in your
classroom. Profusely illustrated, and presented in a way that makes work FUN for the pupils.

. For instance . . . there will be,

Christmas Window Transparencies
Dioramas
Christmas Crafts—things to make
Costume Jewelry
Ornaments
Decorations
Gifts
Greeting Cards

, JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES

Christmas Customs '
Home for Christmas—story and project i
Christmas Seatwork

Little Jack Homer
Reindeer — Nature Study Booklet
And Regular Classroom Material

. . . the “IDEA” MAGAZINE for TEACHERS. Created through the collaboration of teachers
and supervisors in the elementary grades and unequaled in the amount of practical usable
project material in each issue. Makes pupils happier because it holds their interest, thus
progressing more rapidly. New, up-to-date—saves your time and energy. Get the December

issue and judge for yourself !

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
740 Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois

Safety
Music
i

[3 Please send me the December issue of Junior ARTS AND ACTIVITIES for which I enclose 25c.
El Please enter my subscription for 10 issues, of JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES at $2. If I am not satisfied I
will cancel my subscription within 10 days after receipt of the December issue. Otherwise I will remit by

January 5, 1941.

Address ....................................................................................... ..

A Favorable Referendum Vote—The presi—
dent of the Recreation Council of Monongalia
County, West Virginia, writes that a proposal for
a county—wide .system of public recreation and
playgrounds was passed by a large majority at a
recent referendum vote.

Recreation Is Religion—A little Methodist
church in Port Byron, Illinois, has become the
town recreation center and its auditorium, recrea»
tion hall, and basement are open without cost to
all community groups who wish to use them.
Every week members of the Rural Youth, 4-H
clubs, Farm Bureau, and Home Bureau solve
their club problems in the church whose minister
believes, “Any group putting on wholesome rec-
reation and operating good will is doing a religious
thing because the Christian philosophy is to bring
people together. It is sacred to unify and build

up. The activity program of the recreation-
minded Rev. A. J. Copeland includes outdoor get-

 State  ..  

 

togethers for community citizens and programs
planned to keep young people in church. Ordinary
party games are “too tame,” but folk games and

game equipment for all age groups compete suc—
cessfully with commercial amusements.

Winter Activities in Minneapolis
(Continued from page 553)

Values are hard to determine anywhere, but we
feel sure than there are. many and varied values
derived by young and old in the winter activities
provided for in Minneapolis. The time spent play-
ing out of doors with others or inside preparing
equipment and planning for special events is time
well spent. The activities are for everyone-—
spectator and participant—and we feel that our
Minneapolis is not only a city of parks and lakes,

but a city of opportunity where everyone may
enjoy life to its fullest extent.

 

.l
i

l

JOSEPH F. SUTTNER

Joseph F. Suttner

On the eve of his sixty—seventh birthday, Joseph
F. Suttner died at his home in Buffalo. For eigh-
teen years Director of Recreation in the Depart-
ment of Parks, Mr. Suttner had seen Buffalo’s
recreation facilities greatly increased. When he
became director, the city had no mUnicipal swim-
ming pools. Now it has nine, and there are twenty-
four municipal playgrounds. Always keenly in-
terested in sports and athletic games, Mr. Suttner
did much to build up the athletic program of base—
ball, municipal tennis, basketball, softball, skating,
and other sports.

Winter Pageants
(Continued from. page 535)

Majesty” enters and is crowned by the former

. queen.

Exhibitions, fancy skating, ice games, and other
activities comprise the court entertainment. The
champions of the winter sports activities at the
Carnival are presented. They receive the “Royal
Order of the Winter Frolic” at the hand of Her
Imperial Majesty. Then the court retires, signal-
ing the close of the evening’s program.

Winter Circus. A circus is fun for both specta-
tors and participants. For this type of entertain-
ment King Winter (or a similar personage) might
rule from a throne constructed of snow and ice.
The circus would then take place on the skating
rink before the throne. There may be skating to
music, a serpentine march, fireworks, circus stunts,
clowns, elephants and giraffes on skates, kiddie
car polo, hobby horse race.

Indian and Folk Legends. Indian and folk legends

may be adapted for an ice pageant, resulting in a
most effective production.

Fantasy. An extravaganza in fantasy might
prove popular with a loosely woven tale of fairies,

elves, story book characters as a background
pattern.

Planning a Winter Sports Area
(Continued from page 554)
to the esthetic value of the property but it also

furnishes an unusual skating surface.
On the west Side of the lake an island provides

565

SECURING AND MAINTAINING
STANDARDS IN COMMUNITY
RECREATION PERSONNEL

This publication, just off the press, is
designed to assist cities in securing
competent Workers for leadership posi-
tions and maintaining an efficient rec-
reation staff. It indicates some of the
problems involved in selecting and
maintaining recreation personnel, and
describesmmethods which have proved
successful in meeting them. This
pamphlet may be secured for 15 cents.

Many of the recommendations and
procedures suggested in this report are
related to the earlier publication of the
same committee of recreation execu-
tives entitled Standards of Training,
Experience, and Compensation in Com-
munity Recreation Work. Copies of
this earlier report are available at 25
cents each. The two reports comple-
ment each other, and both should be
in every recreation library.

NATIONAL RECREATION
A S S O C I A T I O N

315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

 

a stage for an outdoor theater. It will be noted
that the dressing room facilities for the stage
serve a dual purpose; the building becomes a
warming shelter for skaters in the winter time.
One of the lovely features of the stage is the
apron consisting of a series of grass steps leading
down into the pool that separates the stage from
the auditorium. (These steps are approximately a
hundred feet wide.) The pool in front of the stage
can be utilized for ice pageants and special skat-
ing exhibitions. In line with the multiple use
principle the natural amphitheater is well adapted
for use as a winter coasting area.

In connection with the general use of the park
area an archery range and a golf driving range
have been introduced. Both of these open areas
may also be utilized in a winter program where
level ground is desirable. The diversified facilities

of this area offer wide possibilities for winter
carnivals.

566 JUNIOR COUNCILLORS

The Construction and Maintenance

of Ice Skating Areas
( Continued from page 539)

tractor or truck with a large plow in front may
be used. Cuttings made by skates or a light snow
can be removed by a good scraper made from two
partly curved sidewalk scrapers. Butt two of these
scrapers together. Bolt pieces of light angle iron
or mild steel across the top and bottom of the
scrapers and across both handles about eight
inches from the top. This will make a scraper that
will do a thorough job and last for years.

Intensive use wears down the ice which must
then be reconditioned either through scraping or
planing and respraying or flooding. These opera-
tions should take place after closing time to allow
the water to freeze solid before the rink is again
subjected to use. Cracks in the ice may be elimi-
nated by the use of warm water. Unless ice par-
ticles and foreign matter are cleared off the ice
surface before respraying or flooding, a soft ice
will result which will melt quickly in rising tem-
perature.

In the design of recreation areas and in the se-
lection or development of facilities for ice skating
it is desirable to have the area readily accessible to
a shelter or field house. In some locations where a
permanent building is not feasible, it may be de-
sirable to erect a knock down shelter during the
skating season.

A skating rink is not complete without flood-
lights for night skating, a concession stand, and a
public address system to make announcements and
furnish music for the skaters.

/

The City of Dubuque has been recognized as
the winter sports center of the State of Iowa.
Surrounded by numerous hills and with the Mis-
sissippi River Howing by its door, the city fosters
almost every kind of winter sport.

The rolling hills make an idealsetting for cross
country skiing. For those who prefer more excit-
ing sport, a large ski jump has been constructed
on one of the hills. It is possible to make leaps of
more than two hundred feet from this ski jump.
The annual tri—state ski tournament, held in Janu-
ary at Dubuque, brings the best jumpers from
Iowa, Illinois, and Minnesota.

Fifteen streets in the hill district are set aside
for coasting each year. These districts are closed
to traffic from 4:00 P. M. until 10:30 P. M. daily,
and thousands of children and adults take advan-
tage of this sport.

Junior Councillors

HE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN of the

United States is sponsoring a program of ac-
tivities for older girls, the basic purpose of which
is “to help every girl learn the art of living so
that Whatever her lot may be she will get the most
happiness and satisfaction out of life.” The plan
calls for sponsorship locally by a specially formed
council of women who will make it possible to
give high school girls an opportunity to discuss
their own problems of family and boy relation-
ships, of dress, personality, and behavior, and

preparation for life, business, and marriage. The '

program makes use of skits or playlets which the
girls present, talks by outstanding women, espe—
cially women doctors, followed by a question box.
Once a week the girls have a dance sponsored by
the Council. The program is planned for three

years, the first two being known as junior years '

and the third, designed for girls of eighteen and
nineteen years of age, being known as the senior
year. For this group more serious lectures are
given by speakers on economic and consumer
problems, vocational guidance, and more adult
subjects as requested by the girls.

A booklet, “Junior Councillors—The Bethlehem

Plan,” which explains the purpose and program3

of the organization, has been prepared by Anna
Steese Richardson who is chairman of the Com-
mittee 0n Junior Councillors 0f the National Coun-
cil of Women. This and other information may

be secured from Mrs. Elizabeth L. O’Neill, di-u

rector, Junior Councillors, Union Bank Building,
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

Depending on the demand, four to nine skating

rinks are in yearly use. One of these rinks, Comis- 5

key Field Rink (named in honor of the late Charles

Comiskey, owner of the Chicago White Sox, who “
started his baseball career in Dubuque), measures i
about three hundred by six hundred feet. It is
lighted for night skating, wired for sound, and-
has a modern warming house. Music is furnished I

by a public address system with loud speakers at
each corner of the rink. New ice is made every

night if weather permits. Skaters drive as far as;

a hundred miles to use this rink, and last year a'
total of 96,000 skaters appeared on this area dur-
ing the twenty-six skating days.

Plans are now being made for an ice carnival to
be held about the middle of January. The best'
skaters from Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Il-
linois will participate in the program.

 

RECREATION IN MIDDLEBURY

Recreation in Middlebury

| IDDLEBURY is a Connecticut town of two thou-

M sand population which for the past two
years has been working to secure an adequate ath-
letic held. At a town meeting held in October,
1938, the first action was taken by an interested
group of citizens. A committee of seven was ap-
pointed, with Charles H. Upson as chairman.
Months were spent inspecting and securing prices
of possible sites for an athletic held which would
furnish space for baseball, football, soccer and
other sports, and provide a dozen softball teams
with adequate space for their games. Fourteen
locations were considered, and hnally estimates
were secured on the purchase and development of
a large field on the west border of town. Other
estimates were obtained on developing an addition
to the center schoolyard for the use of the soft-
ball players.

The softballers were the first to secure their
playing space. This was done at a cost of about
$4,000, necessitated by considerable filling in and
grading. This service has provided a great deal of
recreation for several hundred neighborhood “sport
hours” for players and fans, most of the playing
taking place from 6:00 to 8:30 P. M. during day-

light time. It is also used by the pupils of the
school.

The athletic field has cost about $9,000 to date

' and is a rough graded, unfenced held with loam

. saved and piled at the east end. It is about five

acres in size. About $4,000 will be needed to grade

and enclose the Held. Mr. Upson states that the

' :ommittee hopes later to secure a field house which

.will accommodate basketball and other indoor

-sports, as well as a cement out—of—door shallow

box which will hold six inches of water to serve
,as a natural hockey rink with lights.

Winter Sports for Michigan
( C ontinued from page 540)

ing and afternoon of Wednesday, December
11th. From 6 to 7:30 in the evening a winter

sports dinner Will be held, followed by a winter
sports social demonstration.

Festival organization and its essential phases
Wlll claim the morning and afternoon of Thurs-
day, December 12th, in Marquette. “Snow

567

G©Abll

Es Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas
Lawrence. Kansas

     

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG

(Manufactured Under Exclusive LicenseIAgreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street a a. n n a. :0 St. Louis. MO.

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

and Ice Sculpture” will be discussed, and there
will be presentations of “Lighting,” “Costum-
ing,” “Advertising,” and “Parades.”

In the latter part of the afternoon, rotating
groups will learn the construction of winter
sports equipment through the use of models
and instruction; and Thursday evening will
find the Institute practising what it preaches at
a social skating and skiing program.

Demonstrations of speed, figure and social
skating followed by a skating safety program
are planned for Friday, December 13th, in
Marquette.

Following a “Trail Side” luncheon, the
group will witness demonstrations of snow—
shoeing conducted by the WPA Tourist Guide
Project, after. which enrollees will participate
in the activity. A “Friday Night Frolic” will
wind up the late afternoon course on special-
ized ice sports—ice hockey and curling.

The program for Saturday morning, Decem-
ber 14th, will include teaching methods for
skiing and an hour and a half clinic summary.

568

THE AMERICAN CITIZEN
MAGAZINE

brings each month stories of what
individuals, community groups and
agencies are doing

To build good character

To educate youth for citizenship
and community leadership

To solve community problems

To safeguard and enhance democratic
institutions.

—ENDORSEMENTS—
A High School Principal:

“Perhaps the most interesting, as well as the
most potential characteristic of THE AMERI-
CAN CITIZEN is its emphasis upon the cor-
relation of various educational, civic, and social
activities. As far as I know, there is no other
periodical that has the same peculiarly effective
approach to these helds.”—Francis L. Bacon,
Principal, Evanston Township High School,
Evanston, Illinois.

University Dean:

“I consider the magazine THE-AMERICAN

CITIZEN an outstanding influence in promot-
ing social education. I believe a journal of this
kind should have widespread circulation and
adequate support from individuals and organi-

zations interested in social education.”——-Ernest
O. Illelby, Dean of School of Education, North-
western University.

Chief Librarian:

“THE AMERICAN CITIZEN is serving a
vital need of the times and should be in every
public, college, and school library in the coun-
try.”-—-Clarence W. Sumner, Chief Librarian,
The Youngstown Public Library, Youngstown,

Ohio.

School Superintendent:

"I know of no other publication that addresses
the job of citizenship training so specincally
and effectively. It is one source that we can
depend upon to be free from hair-brained social
or political proposals that serve only to sell

magazines and confuse the immature student.”—
E. R. Selleck, Supt. of Des Plaines Public
Schools, Des Plaines, Illinois.

Send your name and address to

THE AMERICAN CITIZEN

5132 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

and a sample copy and subscription
blank will be sent to you.

 

WINTER SPORTS IN BARRE

Winter Sports in Barre

BARRE, LOCATED in the Green Mountains, is
blessed with opportunity for winter sports
both within the city and in the near-by vicinity.
Snow and freezing weather descend around
Christmas time and from then until the middle of
March, skating, skiing, and many other Winter
sports are in full sway. It is possible to ski on:

some of the surrounding mountains until the mid-
dle of May.

In the City of Barre the Recreation Department n
operates three skating rinks and a hockey rink. '-
The skating rinks are located in convenient areas
throughout the city and are manned by a care-
taker and an assistant. These rinks are well light-1
ed and provide music for the enjoyment of the
skaters through amplifying systems. The rinks
are open evenings for adults. Under the direction
of the supervisors in charge, an interesting pro-
gram of activities is carried out for the children.
There are games, contests, hockey teams, and the
season is completed with a gay and spectacular
carnival at the Auditorium rink. At this carnival"
a king and queen are chosen and crowned, their:
throne being made of ice. During the winter, the,
supervisors also have hiking, skiing, and snow-
shoeing parties. When the snow is best for slid-l ‘
ing, the city barricades several streets.

This year the hockey rink is to be moved to the- 
new playlield adjacent to the Municipal Audiw I
torium and will be scientifically lighted for night I
play. Barre has always boasted a first-class hockey:
team and the regional hockey playoffs are held in-
that city.

   
 
   
 
  
    

The Barre Ski Club, a local organization of ap-
proximately 400 members, operates the Barre ski.
area, located on the Barre-East Montpelier main.
highway, State route No. I 5, about one mile from,
the business section of the- city. The main attrac-t
tion at the center is an open slope approximately?
I 500 feet in length, between 75 and 500 feet in.
width, having a vertical descent of 200 feet, all
maximum grade of 32 degrees, northerly ex!
posure, and can be used with only two inches of
dry snow. The open slope runs off into rolling
meadows which are adaptable to cross country
skiing.

The second major attraction at the center is the
Barre Ski Club tow which is 1200 feet long, hag

a vertical ascent of I 75 feet and is used daily. The
main slope as well as the practice slope is floodi-

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 569

f‘lighted so that night skiing is just as popular as
‘ day skiing (more popular during the week).

7 Two short but interesting wooded trails de-
;veloped adjacent to the ski slope terminate at the
' base of the tow. These runs are very popular with
 intermediate and expert skiers.

Located within twenty—three miles of the City
of Barre is the famous Mount Mansfield area with
its extensive system of ski runs and trails through-
out the eastern side of Mount Mansfield, varied
terrain with long snow season for mountain ski-
ing, downhill running and cross country touring
with developments for all classes of skiers. There
are lighted practice slopes, the longest ski lift in
the United States, ski jump, and adequate accom—
modations for overnight guests. The world’s long-
lest and highest aerial chair lift with a horizontal
jlength of 6330 feet and a vertical height of 2030
)feet-is to be put in operation at the Mount Mans-
)field area this coming winter season. It has eighty-
tsix chairs and the time of ascent will be from
twelve to fifteen minutes.

Skiing for Wisconsin Youth
(Continued from page 538)

.ally recognized by the U. S. Ski Association—
the nation-wide professional organization of ski
jumpers. When the junior association has its tour-
1naments each winter, the,U. S. Ski Association
' furnishes competent judges at no cost to the jun—
;iors and also offers medals as prizes.

The Wisconsin VVPA Recreation Department
is giving assistance to the juniors now just as
much as it did when the clubs were first organized.
'Some of the recreation leaders act as adult advis—
lers to individual clubs; others serve on the adult
board of advisers to the state association. One of

' the district supervisors is secretary-treasurer of
ithe association. When toumaments are held, the

PWPA leaders aid members of the U. S. Ski As-
isociation with the hundred and one little jobs so
necessary toward the running off of a ski tourna-
ment.

 

Winter Fun for All

(Continued from page 543)

WPA-sponsored tournaments, winter carnivals,
and festivals also have had a popularizing effect
'=11pon winter sports. At Eau Claire, Wisconsin,
the “7 PA, with the National Ski Association’s

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
2 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 2

          

MAGAZINES

The American City, November 1940

“Re—Creation for All Citizens.” For adequate na-
tional defense and individual satisfaction

“Floodlighted Municipal Fields” by F. D. Crowther

The Camping Illagazine, November 1940

“The Creative Approach to Crafts in Camp” by C.
Genevieve Lawler

“Let’s Take a Hike” by Mariann Marshall. Indi-
vidual child guidance through hiking

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
November 1940

“Dance Correlates” by Ovilla W. Williams

The Nation’s Schools, November 1940

“Plays, Penthouse Style” by ‘Glenn Hughes. The

presentation of plays with the audience seated on
all four Sides of the action

School Activities, November 1940

“Character Training at Recess” by Rowen Aldrich.

The role of the school playground in character
development

PAM PH LETS

The Layman Scientist in Philadelphia. A Directory of

Amateur Scientists’ Organizations and Resources in
Selence, 1940 '

Committee on Education and Participation in Sci-

ence, The American Philosophic Society, 104 South
Fifth Street, Philadelphia, Pa., price $.15

Patriotic Songs of America

Home Institute, 109 West 19th Street, New York
City, price $.15

Regulations Governing the Sanitation of Juvenile Recre-
ational Camps

State Boardof Health, Concord, N. H.

South Jamaica Houses: A Chapter in Public Housing

New York City Housing Authority, 122 East 42nd
Street, New York City

Van Allyn Technique for Vocational Selection by Keith

Van Allyn. Tentative Manual
National Institute of Vocational Research, Los An-
geles, Cal., price $.50

REPORTS

Park, Parkway and Recreational Area Survey. June 1940.
Report [by Arkansas State Planning Board cooperating
with the State Parks Commission and National Park
Service
Arkansas State Planning Board, Little Rock, Ark.

570 ELEANOR ROOSEVELT ON RECREATION

Eleanor Roosevelt on

Recreation

RIDAY EVENING, members of various social
F agencies in the country who had met with me
before, gathered with some young people on our
picnic grounds at 6 o’clock. Forty or fifty came,
and after a picnic supper we sat around and dis-
cussed what the situation of youth in our country
is, and what things youth feels really need to be
changed in their environment.

I was interested to find that the lack of recrea-
tional facilities loomed large in all their minds.
Several young people from small towns remarked
that there was really nothing to do except “hang
around street corners.” That remark ought to
give us elders food for thought. Why shouldn’t
we older people be interested in providing a
variety of recreational facilities? If we really look
for them we have in our midst people with tastes
and skills who could develop many recreational
possibilities.

In the conversation with this group I thought
recreation had a very narrow meaning for most
of them. Primarily, it seemed to mean tennis
courts, swimming pools and similar opportunities
for outdoor exercise.

No one mentioned books, development of craft
skills, community dances or dramatics, or group
singing. Yet it is not difficult to find leaders for
all these things, even in small communities. Cer-
tainly, they do draw us together, young and old,
in a pleasant and companionable environment.

The group decided that they wished to meet
again and that they would form a committee, de-
cide what they would discuss, and even prepare
some recommendations for action. I am a little
tired of discussions that lead to no action, and so
I am glad to see that these young people really
contemplate doing something.

Reprinted from “My Day” by permission of
United Feature Syndicate

approval, in augurated the United States’ first
junior ski jumping contest. All eligible children,
many girls among them, were coached by experts
until an 80 foot jump was commonplace even
among ten-year-olds. A contest followed the train—
ing period and a junior champion of each sex was
crowned. The W PA in Wisconsin also manages

ice skating tournaments in which thousands par-
ticipate.

Two of the most popular among many winter,
sports carnivals and tournaments in Montana are
presented on W PA-built skating rinks at Kalispelr
and Anaconda. The Anaconda show is a three day
event in which 500 grade school children compete
through preliminary, semi-final and championship
contests. So the WPA, having helped to usher in
one generation of winter sportsmen, is beckoning
to the next.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 556) e

trees. Do you know where in your community is,
the largest oak? The gigantic sycamore? The:
biggest elm?

Tree Pest B 00k. Valuable information for any-ll
one interested in tree care. Massachusetts Forest.
and Park Association, 3 Joy Street, Boston, 187

pp. $1.00.

Weather. Rain or Shine. The Story of Weather,
Marian E. Baer. Farrar and Rinehart, 292 pp.
$2.00. A narrative flavor makes it readable.

Wilderness Areas. The Living Wildernessl
Magazine, July, 1940, traces the history of the-1
concept. Wilderness Society, 1840 Mintwood I
Place, Washington, D. C. . .

l/Vildlife on Recreational Areas, Victor H. Ca-l
halane. The Utah Juniper, Utah Agricultural Col-n
lege, Logan. November, 1940, pp. 8 to 10.

Zoo. On October I, 1940, the Brookside Zoo of, I
Cleveland, at the request of the City Council, was
taken over by the Natural History Museum. The,
Museum will obtain monthly installments of the
$50,000 appropriated. This move was championed
by the newspapers. Taking a 200 out of politics”.

l

and placing it under education is a forward step. J

Christmas Greens should be tagged to prevent"
stealing, to help the land owner, to further the'
planting of holly, laurel and evergreens, and to
conserve fast disappearing species.

Nature-grams. Your response is beyond fond--
est dreams. Because your ideas are modern you!

can select the ideas of tomorrow . . . today.

NOTE: Readers of Dr. Vinal’s Nature-Grams will be;
interested in knowing that his new book, Nature Recre-’
ation, is off the press. It is full of practical and interest:
ing material for recreation workers interested in promot-
ing nature activities. It is published by McGraw-Hill
Book Company, New York City. Price, $3.00. ‘

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Football Plays for Boys

By Ralph Henry Barbour and La Mar Sarra. Revised
I edition. D. Appleton-Century Company, New York.

$1.25.

THIS HOW-TO-DO-IT BOOK has been adapted to the needs

of boys from twelve to seventeen who want to play
football but for whom no coach is available. The book
opens with brief instructions on the fundamentals of foot-

’ ball, blocking. tackling, stances, etc., and then sets forth
lucidly a group of simple and practical plays that are
especially suited to junior teams. Graphic diagrams ac-
company each explanation.

Crafts for Fun

By Evadna Kraus Perry. \Villiam Morrow and Com-
pany, New York. $3.00.

~ HE PURPOSE OF THIS BOOK is "to help the individual
' who has always wanted to do things with his hands.
'but who has been afraid of himself and of materials and
tools.” In eleven chapters Mrs. Perry explains in clear
detail simple methods and mediums for types of craft
work including linoleum-block printing. clay modeling,

. pottery, working with wood, book making, spattering,
weaving, knotting. embroidery, and crafts employing
sheet cork and metal foil. The things to make are not
new or extraordinary, and the materials and techniques
are easy to master. The book is profusely illustrated by
photographs taken by Clarence Perry.

Camps and Cottages.
How to Build Them Yourself

By Charles D White. Thomas Y. Crowell Company,
New York. $2.00.
tMOFE AND MORE PEOPLE are spending their week ends
In the country, and week-end shacks are multiply-
‘ing. In this book Mr. White, who is an architect, tells
how to build a shack. He discusses clearly every step
1involved and offers many drawings and diagrams. Practi-
llcal information is given on tools, materials, land, and
liturnishings. There are plans for summer cottages and
liski lodges, for camps with one, two, and three rooms.

Advanced Tennis

,By Chester Bowers. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $1.75.
‘OUTSTANDING IN THIS BOOK on tennis techniques are
the chapters on strategy—how to use the right tactics
in the split-second opportunities that arise; how to plan
Your game from the toss of the first ball to the final
(placement. Additional chapters include complete exer—
azises for tournament training and information on playing
3Uri-aces, equipment and its care, and the teaching of the
“sport,

Hallowe'en Fun Book

Revised edition. Minneapolis Hallowe’en Committee.
thainable from Karl Raymond, Director of Recrea-
tlon, 325 City Hall, Minneapolis. $.25.

ANYONE WISHING games and stunts for Hallowe’en will
find them literally by the hundreds in this attrac-
tively illustrated booklet. For the community wishing
to organize a community-wide Hallowe’en celebration
there is a section regarding the various steps taken in
Minneapolis to organize community forces and secure
wide participation. Here is a publication which should
be in every recreation worker’s library.

H940 Yearbook—Park and Recreation
Progress

Available from Superintendent of Documents, Washing-

ton, D. C. $.35.

Fon THREE YEARS the National Park Service has made

its progress report to the people of the United States
through a Yearbook recording progress in park and rec-
reation developments. The 1940 Yearbook, like its prede-
cessors, spotlights the high points in these developments
through a series of articles by leaders in the park field.
This is attractively illustrated.

Safety

By Sidney J. Williams and W. W. Charters. The Mac-
millan Company, New York. $1.60.
HERE IS A BOOK which offers material for a comprehen-
sive course in safety into which are drawn those
contributions of physics, chemistry, psychology, and
sociology which transform the simple rules of safety into
applications of scientific principles. Though designed for
the use of teachers, it will be of interest to recreation
workers because of its discussion of accident prevention
on playgrounds and schoolyards and water safety, safety
in winter sports, camp, and outdoor recreation.
“Athletics furnish the setting for a great many school
accidents,” state the authors. “The gymnasium and the
school grounds are places of special hazard. One-third
of the accidents which occur in all school buildings hap-
pen in the gymnasium. About the same number take
place on the school grounds as in the building. All the
accidents on the school grounds result from apparatus,
football, other athletics, other organized games, and un-
organized games.” Practical suggestions are offered as
to how such accidents can be prevented.

Exploring Your Community

Compiled by 'Gladys L. Potter. The Association for Chil-
hood Education, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C. $.35.

THIS BULLETIN shows in a thrilling way what is being
done to give children natural education through trips
which give opportunity to see what is going on in the
community. As a beginning step, the booklet points out,

571

572 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

the teacher herself must know the community where she
is working before she can introduce the children to the
community which should be one of their chief labora-
tories for learning.

The Creative Adult.

By Hughes Mearns. Doubleday, Doran and Com-
pany, Inc., New York. $3.00.

“Self—Education in the Art of Living” is the appropri—
ate subtitle of this book in which Mr. Mearns, author of
Creative Youth, applies to the teaching of adults the prin-
ciples which he has discovered from his successful ex—
periments in child training. Here is a guide which will
help the individual in rediscovering his individuality and
in leading a richer and happier life.

Training for the Job.

By Frank Ernest Hill. American Association for
Adult Education, New York. $1.25.

This study of vocational education for adults deals
with men and women, whether sixteen or sixty, who are
through with school and are preparing definitely for
specific work. It deals with courses which they seek and
which are useful to them. It deals also with the agencies
which serve adults and which are so numerous that they
can be observed, as Mr. Hill states, “in a swift overview,
much as one would observe the location of towns, air-
ports. or factories as details on a broad and crowded
map.”

The Big Fun Book.

Edited 'by Jerome S. Meyer. Greenberg: Publisher,
New York. $1.98.

The Big Fun Book is big indeed, containing as it does
800 pages crammed full of suggestions for home enter-
tainment. To list just a few of the various types of
entertainment offered, there are charades, handwriting
analysis, tests of all kinds, quizzes, plays and amateur
theatricals, treasure hunts, action games, pen and pencil
games, oral games, palmistry, word puzzles and picture
puzzles, tricks, stunts, magic, brain twisters, and an en-
tire section for the very young. 'Every effort has been
made to make the book an attractive volume, and the
copper cloth binding, specially designed fly leaves, and
cover decoration make it an unusual volume.

Nature Recreation—Group Guidance
for the Out-of-Doors.

By William (“Cap’n Bill”) Gould Vinal. McGraw—
Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $3.00.

Dr. Vinal’s many friends in the recreation field will
welcome the announcement that Nature Recreation is off
the press. In this book Dr. Vinal has assembled, for the
benefit of all interested in making nature a fascinating
and joyous subject, his long experience and store of
knowledge of nature lore. Here is a wealth of informa-
tion which has been classified under two main headings:
The Philosophy of Nature Recreation and Applied Na-
ture Recreation. Nature experiences in the home, com-
munity and summer camp; trips and trails; nature games;
and conservation are discussed. The important subject of
leadership occupies several chapters, and this problem is
explored from the technique of nature club leadership
and leadership responsibility on the hike and overnight
trip to administrative leadership in the community pro-
gram for nature recreation.

Dr. Vinal’s book, as he points out, is intended for the
uninitiated as well as for students in colleges of educa-
tion and is submitted by him “to the thousands of nature
friends who are seeking means to guidance of wayfarers
along the trail.”

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACTS OF
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AND MARCH 3, 1933 of
RECREATION, published monthly at New York, N. Y., Eighth'
Avenue, Slst tO 33rd Streets for October I, 1940.

STATE OF NEW YORK,
COUNTY OF NEW YORK, 55

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county'
aforesaid, personally appeared Howard Braucher, who, having
been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is
the editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the best
Of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership,i
management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the?
aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption,
required by the Act Of August 24, 1912, as amended by the Act?
of March 3, 1933, embodied 'in section 537, Postal Laws andl
Regulations, printed on the reverse Of this form, to wit: '

1‘. That the names and addresses Of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers are: r

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,‘
New York, N. Y. 5

Editor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York,
N. Y.

Ménaging Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York,.
N. ‘ . 

Business Manager: R. J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y. r

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and5
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the,
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per.
cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a cor-‘“
poration, the names and addresses Of the individual owners must‘
be given.- If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated
concern, its name and address, as well as those of each indi-‘
vidual member, must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New.
York, N. Y. "

F. W. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemis, Boston.
Mass.; Mrs. Edward W. Biddle, Carlisle, Pa.; Mrs. Robert Woodsf
Bliss, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. William Butterworth, Moline,‘
I11.; Henry L. Corbett, Portland, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummerf
Jacksonville, Fla.; F. Trubee Davison, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.;‘l
Harry P. Davison, New York, N. Y.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore; ‘
Md.; Robert Grant, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.; Austin E. GrifIiths,‘
Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitchburg, Mass; Mrs.’{
Melville H. Haskell, Tucson, Ariz.; Mrs. Charles V. Hickox,‘
Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. Mina M. Edison Hughes, West Orange;
N. J.; Mrs. John D. Jameson, Sugar Hill, N. H.; Gustavus T.‘ '
Kirby, New York, N. Y.; H. McK. Landon, Indianapolis, Ind.;,”
Mrs; Charles D. Lanier, Greenwich, Conn.; Robert Lassiter,‘
Charlotte, N. C.; Susan M. Lee, Boston. Mass; OttO T. Malleryf
Philadelphia, Pa.; Walter A. May, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Carl E5.
Milliken, Augusta, Me.; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, WOOdbury, N. Y.;
Mrs. Sigmund Stern, San Francisco, Calif.; Mrs. James 
Wadsworth, Washington, D. C.; J. C. Walsh, New York, N. Y.;
Frederick M. Warburg, New York, N. Y.; John G. Winant,’
Concord, N. H.; Stanley Woodward, Washington, D. C.

l
I
I

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount Of
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none,”
so state.)

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the
owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not :
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stock-
holder 01' security holder appears upon the books of the company
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name Of the,
person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given?
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing)
affiant’s full knowledge and belief as tO the circumstances and,l
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who dol
not appear upon the books Of the company as trustees, hold stock‘l
and securities in a capacity other than that Of a bona fide owner;?
and this afliant has no reason tO believe that any other person,‘
association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in,
the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him. 7

   
 
   

5. That the average, number of copies Of each issue of this pub".
lication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to:
paid subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date,
shown above is (This information is required from daily publi-"
cations only.)

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 26th day Of Septem-
ber, 1940. '
[SEAL] MIRIAM S. C. DOCHTERMANN,
Notary Public, Nassau County.

Nassau County Clerk’s No. 351. Certificate Filed in New York-
County. Clerk’s No. 60. Register’s NO. 2D46. My Commission
expires March 30, 1942.

