No Ivory Tower

NE refuge in times of trouble and anxiety is to turn back to the good and simple

things which lie at the heart of normal human life. In any society these will be
the things that make life worth living. Indeed, they are the things that account for the
persistence of our species under the old terrors of the jungle, of darkness, of starvation.
They are individual things, individually experienced,,and in that way an answer to the
mass manias around us.

We ought to feel a strengthening of the ties of affection for our families and our
friends—for they make a charmed circle Within which the hearth fire glows and into

which neither fear nor hate can penetrate.

We ought to see with clearer eyes the beauty and meaning of human faces, the
wonder of the pageantry of the daily work and play, the majestic pattern of the coming
and going of the seasons, the glory of sunlight over a city or a meadow or a forest or a
coast, of the roar of a city, of the humming of insects in the sleepy twilight in the country.

We may well shrink from what we read in print, see in the news reels, hear over
the radio. But shrinking is a negative response. We need a positive reaflirmation of
what life is and can be. We need a new, bright sense of its glory and significance, and
of the preciousness of the least of the human vessels into which it has been poured.

The spirit of freedom is not in laws and institutions alone—nor even chiefly. It
is expressed in the expansion ‘of the personal experience, in an individual’s rather than a
nation’s room to grow, in the unlocking of human powers and human opportunities. No
disaster can black out a nation which lives in that spirit.

We cannot climb an ivory tower and cultivate our souls in indifference to the
dark tumult which rises on every side. But we can build in a democracy, in liberty, in
peace, a kind of life that shall seem to all men desirable, and which, whatever the fate of
liberty and men’s hopes elsewhere, shall not be forgotten.

A factory humming with productive activity, a tired father going home to a family
which welcomes him, a mother singing her baby to sleep, two lovers walking into the
sunset, the smoke of a wood fire, the smell of ripening apples, the odor of good cooking,
the tranquility after storm in a Beethoven symphony, a policeman diving into the river to
rescue a drowning man, a fireman entering a tottering burning building, a craftsman
doing his work in love of his materials and his tools, the friendly face swimming out of
the crowd, the light falling slantwise past the glowing cornices of great buildings, love
and work and sacrifice and play—of these are the things that matter.

Sometimes in history they have had to be fought for. But first they have to be

lived for.

From The New York Times, September 24, 1939. Used by permission.

 

. “x 1
f‘—‘ a in. - 'f
4

 

537

magm>4 .E<35§

» x .
. \x r
x J DIX: 3“ w
30030”. ‘0 kZdaZszH/duhbb
. ¢‘%§8 J. HaxJW -

w r %
duo what. Eur—22950..”
Puma (ZunaznxJ.2 .dD

dd§4sniosz§d3 _
a Lumtxuda.
54.23.33 5543

pow nug‘ioad gun

 Joomun tings ,
, \ M
f , dm>om Jr\\

1.5.5531

mu

ELEME NTARY‘ scam}.

FM...” .2“ H.350

., 25m .5

Pu.”de $-C—2m.

 

The Dover Community School

Dover, Delaware, recog-

nized that the three-story
school building which housed
their elementary and high school pupils was no
longer adequate to meet the increasing enroll-
ments. The Board of Education and Superin-
tendent E. Hall Downes applied themselves to the
problem of planning the extension of this school
plant. Approximately twelve acres were available
as a school site, but very limited provision had
been made to prepare the site for general outdoor
recreation purposes.

In the planning certain assumptions prevailed.
A community school serving the needs of adults
as well as children was recognized as desirable.
Adult formal education, as well as provision for
their recreation and leisure, were considered
equally fundamental programs to be involved in
the planning. The curriculum of the school should
follow the immediate needs of children and not
prepare remotely only for college entrance. The
use of school facilities during the daytime by
adults as well as children should be made possible.
The school should be a living, throbbing center of
human activity meeting community needs as they
arose and serving all group as well as individual
social needs.

The Dover community school is now a reality.
It consists of four building units, as indicated in
the diagram (see opposite page), and has a plan-
ned utilization for all parts of the school site. The
four building units are the high school building,
the social hall, the elementary school, and the
field house, all integrated under the one plan.

The Field House

The field house shown in

Diagram 2 (see page 540)

IN 1937 the citizens of

The educational

By N. L. ENGELHARDT

Professor of Education
Teachers College, Columbia University

and recreational facili-

can easily be put on here. A
stage of ample dimensions
with the needed ancillary
spaces affords opportunity
for the drama, musical performances, or even
pageants. The field house, which will be open to
adults, has provision for many kinds of games in-
cluding handball, volleyball, basketball, and bad-
minton. A ping-pong room adjoins the main play
area. During the school day the gymnasium will
be used by the boys. Portable folding bleachers
have been provided so that they may be used at
the side walls in case of games, or may be ar-
ranged at the rear of the auditorium when the
stage is being used. This building can be used for
convention or assembly purposes during the school
day. It is sufficiently remote from the main build-
ings so that its use will not interfere with the regu-
lar school program. Separate heating has been
planned. Locker and shower spaces for men and
women have been arranged so that they serve the
dual purpose of dressing rooms for the stage as
well as after—recreation service rooms.

The Community Social Hall

Diagram 3 on page 541 gives the outlines of the
community social hall, with its connecting pas—
sages t0 the high school as well as to the ele-
mentary school building, and its entrances from
the out—of—doors for general community use. Here
may be held the meetings of the civic luncheon
clubs, the afternoon meetings and teas of other
community organizations, the evening gatherings
of a choral society, a literary organization, or any
other small community group. This room also
serves as the school cafe-
teria but is designed so that
the school lunch hour may

 

was designed as a structure
apart from the school build-
ings proper. Here can be
held community fairs or
state exhibits. Here may be
assembled conventions con-
cerned with any of the ma—
jor problems of community
and state life. School ex-
hibits or school exhibitions

ties which have been planned for the
Dover, Delaware, Community School should
offer the inspiration to many communities
of this size to plan for school and com-
munity integration and for a wide use of
school facilities. The use of the plans
shown has been made possible through the
courtesy of Walter Carlsonl A.l.A.l Wil-
mington, Delaware, architect for the pro-
iect. Dr. Engelhardt served as educa-
tion adviser in the planning. E. Hall
Downes is Superintendent of Schools.

be meaningfully associated
with music, talks, or student
group presentations. The
kitchen is of ample size to
serve both community as
well as school gatherings. It
is cut off by soundproof
walls so that noise from the
kitchen need not interfere

(Continued on page 582)
539

THE DOVER COMMUNITY SCHOOL

540

 

momma?» Edmkodm
0

:00.“ LNHNZN Um

 

 

= :sz5,.

"MN;

  

 

 

I-IIIIIIII I; ,l
. _ _

I

I

I

I

0”” 03w
9

02.8203. I. I

. m-“HWAu—_ II“ E
.nh . -L d . dL —5:
D mm“. @th  _

  

.m 0490

       

L..th I" “1.....xur

 

.omeom. 015:“?

 

 

 

l

I
H

FiliiL

E

1"0'

  
  

92842.2»0 2:50th 4

III
I
J

    

. .
n-z FOH> 
muz FHA—Oh. 
_I I ' II
L I ll  .95qu good 8:3
.v
Eood 0:”..— IF< . =
_ “gran zoom «563 ion "$53.5. 3:6
1 .. .. u —
‘ I In a. n
.1 I II II I
I I. I. u E
Zoom . m  um u  H nlllwluin
.a o n 03.0.. m‘ l I. u. u
"Ill-IIII-lllIl-Il-l-IlI-ll
m m m H m

 

 

 

 

N _2<~_®<_D

Wiiijiiilj :

am

am _"

  

no: Econ
ha?) .5302.

l— .r . Inn”
'llll . 92 .Hu 6:.

“

  

THE DOVER COMMUNITY SCHOOL 541

é—-_-— —

  

 
 

i
» :
' i 3
 ' c
55252533 -

agimlm
$353“?
Igll an"

I
EE:=-é'.iEEE
“sham ‘
: ll:

43w. {5

Va“ C‘s-.3
570m
OPPKE 
ma 
m 5'

-
“61'
T"!

.lllllll
gating.-

 

 

DIAGRAM 3

OLIVI (I.
m

 

 

on. u
u. .
Oil I
n. .-
IO: .:

__ u-

--
n- o
I.- -
o I

.._-_—-——-E

HIGH SCHOOL. DUILDING

j

What They Say About Recreation

1’ ECREATION is a leisure-time activity, pur-
R poseful yet unrewarded except in the indi-
vidual satisfactions achieved. It includes

many varied types of pursuits engaged in by in-
dividuals both as individuals and as members of a
group; it may be active or passive, organized or
unorganized, commercial, endowed, or publicly
financed. What may be work to some pe0ple may
be recreation to others. All experience is educa-
tional in the broadest sense of the term. Recre-
ation comprises those experiences which are en-
joyed, for the most part, during leisure hours.
Education and recreation both claim similar ob-
jectives. All recreation has educational values;
likewise, to _ some people, educational activities
have recreational values.”——From Social Services
and the Schools, Educational Policies Commission.

“To put Off until tomorrow what one should
enjoy today is a wasteful act. T oday’s joy may
be stale tomorrow, stale as last week’s daffodils.
A person who has not learned ‘to pluck the hour
and the day virtuously and well’ must adjust to

daffodils long gone byl”-—Abbie Graham in Time
Off and On.

“For the adult who was robbed of the pleasure
of making things when he was young, there is still
time. The greatest pleasure will come if he will
develop a creative attitude. This means an atti-
tude of experimenting, exploring, investigating,
inventing. While there are many materials like
clay, wood, leather, paper, and others which are as
old as civilization, no one yet has exhausted the
possibilities of any of these. No one has exhausted
the ways of drawing with pencil, or the ways of
painting, or the ways of arranging lettering in
pleasing spaces. There is an infinitely wide field
ahead for anyone who wishes to adventure in cre—
ating.”——From Create Something, in Design.

“Since early primitive days festivals have been
a folkway. They have made use of all the arts—
song, dance, drama and all the crafts—and have
integrated them into an art form that is meaning—
ful to the participants because it utilizes their
vari01ls proficiencies. The folkway is the child’s
way, and his early singing games typify this same

fusion of the arts.”-—Percival Chubb in Child-
hood Education, September 1939.

542

“There is no greater pleasure in life than cre—
ating things. It is part of everyone’s inheritance,
for before the days of machinery our ancestors
had to make everything they needed, either by
hand or with simple tools. Nothing compares with
the feeling of having made something that func-
tions, having contributed something to the enrich-
ment of life, having produced something for the
community in which one lives.”—From Design,
October 1939.

“We tend to assume that competition and co-
operation are contrary methods. In fact, how—
ever, cooperation nearly always originates as a
means for making competition and survival more
effective. Most cooperative undertakings rely on
competition in many respects, while most competi—
tive projects require cooperation in internal rela—
tions. Cooperation and competition should be
complementary. Both are imperative in any exten-
sive venture. The problem is not how to eliminate

competition but how to control it.”—Dr. Arthur
E. ll/Iorgan.

“Because recreation will be continually expand-
ing, and because many of its finest aspects can be
realized only in connection with the land on which
farmers live, it is important that organized farm-
ers recognize the signihcance of recreation, not
only as a source of demand for farm products,
but also as something which they themselves can
increasingly enjoy.”——Secretary of Agriculture
PVallace.

“What we are aiming to do with our recreation
program is to emphasize the fact that the human
spirit is as much in need of exercise as the human
body. Therefore we are encouraging the develop-

ment of natural. aptitudes for the arts, crafts, I

music, dramatics, without neglecting the needs of
the physical man. People are living outwardly and
not inwardly today. They have too little to dis-
tract them from the confusion of the times. They
are too dependent on the gadgets that consume
their time and leave their hearts and minds empty.
Never has there been a time when it is more im—
portant for us to reach every citizen with a broad
program of recreation.”—Mrs. Eugene Meyer,

Chairman, VVestchester County Recreation Com-
mission.

4.__c4.___, 4a-- _

l l

ii
I I

Recreation and the National Morale

E L'IVE IN the storm and stress of immense
Wand incalculable events. As I consider the

import and the impact of such events upon
us, I am more and more concerned with the im-
portance 'in this country of the creative use of our
leisure time and of strengthening our national
morale.

There has been over a month of war in Europe.
Radio and press are full of reports on the effects
of war on the civilian population. School houses
and universities closed; children separated from
parents; urban children transferred to unfamiliar
rural sections without friends, books or play—
things ; theaters silent; blackout nights ; money and
energy for bombs, destruction and conquest.

We believe these things are not the American
\Vay. We believe our task is to hold, to main—
tain, and to increase the opportunity for all peo-
ple for jobs, a decent income for the family,
security. and the good things of life. One of the
good things of life, one of the important things,
is recreation.

Recreation is peace insurance. Many ex-service
men who Were in Europe during the last war say
that one reason they were anxious to get into war
the last time was because of the monotony, the
dullness, the sameness of life at home. In other
words, war represented something new, some-
thing different and exciting, something they looked
on as more of a fresh experience. I have a letter
in my scrap book from one of the members of my
outfit during the World War. He expressed this
in the single sentence which his letter contained:
“Dear Sir: I find that I like Army life better than
I do home life. Yours very truly, Sam Catan-
zariti.” If the people of every community are
confronted with virile, challenging, interesting
recreational opportunities 110w, civilian interest in
the life of the community will be increased. Such
a program of broad recreation is peace insurance.

Recreation is a term that is now quite widely
understood. We must agree though, that recrea-
tion is an attitude of mind rather than a form of
activity. What is fun for one person may be labor
and even drudgery to another. Practically speak-
ing, however, “recreation is leisure activity en-
gaged in for its own sake.” It includes outdoor

Some of the reasons why recreation is

not only one of the good things, but
one of the important things, of life

By HON. PAUL V. MCNUTT
Federal Security Administrator

and indoor games and sports, swimming, camp-
ing, hiking, nature games, dancing, picnics, drama,
singing, playing instruments, parties, arts and
crafts, travel, discussions and many other activities.
The dictionary defines recreation as refreshment.
However, it is extremely important also as a
medium of personality expression and develop-
ment. Recreation may be a personal hobby or
some experience shared with a small or large
group. It may be organized or unorganized, under
private auspices or governmental, commercial or
non-commercial. It is the principal opportunity
of many people for expressive, joyous living.

By helping the individual to develop inner re-
sources it enables him not only to live in a satis-
fying way under the normal responsibilities and
stresses of existence, but also the better to meet
unusual or peak demands on his physique and on
his mental, moral and nervous reserves. Through
habitual experience in leisure time activities that
involve personal achievement, men and 'women
develop high standards of what constitutes satis-
faction and happiness in life. They tend to find
enduring satisfaction in simple and usually inex-
pensive pleasures.

Increased leisure time can be either an asset or
a liability, depending upon how it is used. The
function of a recreation program is to lay out the
opportunities so that community members can, in
a democratic fashion, 'select the type of recreation
they wish by free choice. The program must be
broad and planned for all age groups.

The essence of true recreatioh is that it involves
personal effort on the part of the individual and
is not dependent on what is done for the individual
but by him. We are here drawing a distinction
between recreation and amusement. The latter is
frequently passive and while temporarily it may
serve an important function, it is not as substan-

543

544 R13CRE-—‘-1T10N AND THE .N’AT/ON--1L Jl/IORALE

 

'- . °'. 9? ' awm *9

Photo by William Newkirk, Cambridge, Mass.

tial as true recreation, which often involves per-
sonal skill. Amusement which carries the indi-
vidual into highly exciting vicarious experience is
often followed by an emotional letdown which
makes the morning after seem stale and flat. Gen-
uine recreation, on the other hand, tends to re-
fresh and stimulate and leave the individual better
prepared than before for the normal duties of
existence.

The outdoor recreation with which we are fa-
miliar in the United States—sports and games,
swimming, skating, coasting, tramping, mountain
' climbing, camping, hunting and fishing, are neces-
sary outlets for men and women required to live
in our cities. Such recreation has important bio-
logical effects upon the system. It makes for the
“primal sanities” of which Walt Whitman so elo-
quently writes. Direct benefits to the body of
abundant exercise in the open air in contact with
the ultra-violet rays of the sun are too widely
acknowledged to need arguing here.

But if recreation has come of age it must be
considered as something in addition to a teeter-
totter, a swing, and a playground in a park for
children or even a lake in the mountains or a base—
ball game. It must include opportunities for art
and craft work; community dramatics; recrea-
tional music; choral work; dancing, forum and

Recreaiion out of
doors. wi+h all if“

has fo offer both

in summer and win-
ferI is of fhe uf-
mosfimporfance
to young and old

 

discussion work; quiet activities such as reading,
the organization of clubs, groups in creative writ-
ing ; the aquatic and winter sports programs. The
American recreation program must not be a purely
regimented physical program as is true in some
foreign countries. Out of leisure time will grow
the new culture for America. It must be a culture
which provides for the intelligent use of the arts,
which provides for socializing experiences in ad-
dition to physical development.

One result of the strain of modern life is the
disposition of the individual to live in the past or
future, to day-dream and evade present issues and
responsibilities. Many forms of recreation, phy-
sical and otherwise, tend to relieve this condition
by compelling the individual’s attention to the
present situation. For example, if a ball is thrown
to him, he must catch it or he is likely to be struck
and injured by it. If he is taking part in a play,
the success of the drama depends upon his meet-
ing his cues promptly.

For both individuals and masses of men, the
drawing off of pent~up energy through witnessing
pageants, spectacles, boxing matches and parades
and from listening to concerts has value. It has
particular value if the entertainment is the result
of the community of action of himself and his
fellows.

RECREATION AND THE NATIONAL MORALE 545

In order to be successful, recreation programs
must have good public relations. Activities of-
fered must be those which the people have demon—
strated that they want. This is one contribution a
recreation program can make to the democratic
way of life. This element of free choice may be
recreation’s main contribution to democracy.

The provision of well-balanced recreation for
every individual has become a social question of
the first magnitude. The growth of leisure and
the realization that the purchasing power of mil-
lions of Americans contains little margin for rec-
reational services and equipment, coupled with
the recognition of the necessity of recreation in
the life of the individual has led to the enormous
expansion of interest in the subject on the part of
governmental and private agencies. Recreation
has become one of the great “musts” in com-
munity and national life. Our community parks
and playgrounds, national and state parks and for-
ests, camps, golf courses, beaches, social centers,
museums and libraries, not to mention the vast

network of commercially fostered amusements,.

are the expression of the Nation’s appetite for
recreation.

Recreational planning in the United States is
beginning to take on some of the large magnifi—
cent dimensions characteristic of our great indus~
trial developments and such gov-
ernment projects as the Panama
Canal, Tennessee Valley Au-
thority, and Boulder Dam. Wit-
ness, for example, our national
state parks and forests, Jones
Beach, and the statesmanlike de—
velopment of recreation proper-
ties in New York City, Chicago
and other large communities. It
is of immense importance to our
country’s future that at a time
of great basic changes in Ameri—
can life the work of some of the
best brains in the United States
are going into recreation.

\Ve know that basic social and
economic changes have taken
place in our country with the dis-
appearance of the frontier. The
term “frontier” carries a mean~
ing that is of the essence of the
American spirit and has always
been closely associated with the
promise of American life. The

existence of the frontier spelled opportunity for
livelihood, pioneering and adventure. Some of
the very means of livelihood on the frontier were
the exciting occupations of hunting, fishing, trap-
ping. lIt is fundamentally important that now
that the frontier itself is gone we shall retain the
frontier spirit—the admittedly restless American
spirit which is always seeking new experience and
new adventure.

Herein lies one of the great roles of organized
recreation in relation to national morale. Recrea-
tion offers the prospect to all American citizens
of avenues for the constructive employment of the
pioneering spirit. In this sense we want the people
of the United States always to remain young. We
want them to apply their restless urges to moun-
tain climbing, camping, swimming, sailing, sports,
arts and crafts, music, nature study, drama, travel,
and the many other forms of interesting leisure
experience.

Those who are professionally engaged in plan-
ning and organizing recreation need no reminder
that such activities as they have developed in the
United States includes opportunity both for the

Recreationl it it has come of age' must,
include opportunities tor arts and crafts
and for many other creative activities

J

'4‘

,c
c

 

 

Courtesy Oglrbay Institute

546 RECREATION AND THE NATIONAL MORALE

expression of the individual’s personal desires for
achievement and recognition and for social ex-
perience of the highest educational quality.

It is obvious that the great recreation areas and
facilities of the United States, and especially or—
ganized programs provided by recreation leaders,
are unifying influences among the people. They
draw citizens together in enjoyment of national
and state, county, urban and neighborhood recrea-
tional facilities and activities. One needs only to
visit the national parks and the community facili—
ties to see how this operates. On the highways, at
points of scenic I
or historic in—
terest, at picnic
grounds and at
camp sites in a
national park,
he will find the
Texan rubbing
elbows with the
Vermonter and
the man from
Puget Sound
exchanging ex-
periences and
ideas with the
man from Mi-
ami. One sees
the unifying in—
fluence at work
in the neigh-
borhood cen«
ters, carnivals
of sport, music festivals,
playground programs, picnics,
athletic meets, and discus-
sion groups which are com—
mon elements of municipal
recreation service. The di-
verse national groups who make up the popula-
tion of our cities are brought together in friendly,
harmonizing activities. Recreation is the great
(lemocratizer and unifier.

In recent years the Federal Government has at-
tempted to provide in positive terms a free and
public program of recreation for all our people——
regardless of age, creed, race or economic status.

The depression was a challenge to national
morale and called forth a great extension of rec-
reational service. The closing of banks, swift rise
of unemployment, and the enormous reduction in
national income threatened the confidence and

 

This music shell in Reading. Pa.. is
representative of the types of facili-
ties that are aiding in the develop-
ment of the "new culture which provides 5
for the intelligent use of the arts"

spirit of the nation. Besides the economic mea—
sures taken by the Government to meet this chal-
lenge was the expansion of recreation facilities
and services by all governmental units. Many of
the jobless themselves were put to work provid-
ing recreation and entertainment for the public.
Almost every agency of the Federal Govern-
ment created to combat the economic and devital—
izing effects of the depression has had a positive
effect on the leisure and culture on the people of
this Nation. Established agencies of the Federal
Government expanded their programs to meet

val-WWW
‘- grin .

pressing needs
and new agen-
cies were cre—
ated dealing

  

. ‘  . _ _, specificallywith
l “   - i.  1 the problem of
 i I W ' l " recreation.

The full ef-

fect of these
efforts has not
been recorded
and we are per—
haps still too
close to the
emergency to
have the pro-
per historical
perspective on
them. Yet we
know that the
American peo—
ple with few
exceptions did gain much
from these emergency pro-
0trams, not only in physical

It.

_ - "u' a:
L' f’”&

‘ $"- 3“; ..
‘4' i .r-
: £ 3%.  3:“
W .e I

equipment but in the recog-
nition of existing needs and
possibilities for meeting them.
It is impressive to think of the 17.000 new fa-
cilities built under the sponsorship of local recre—
ation, school and public works authorities, and of
the 40,000 workers per month which WPA has
supplied to recreation leadership projects in
over 7,000 communities during the past fifteen
months. It is particularly significant to know that
more than half of these communities had a popu-
lation of less than 2,500— for it is in our small
towns and rural communities that future plan-

ning in recreational activities offers the greatest
challenge.

(Continued on page 583)

-. i - ~—-.-—-.~—--———-———

A "Tonic" for the Craft Shop

HILE MANY of the craft ac-
w tivities which were so pop-

ular at the craft shop before
Christmas will be continued after
the holidays, it is a wise idea to
offer a whole new set of suggestions, or at least
the old ideas in a new dress to tempt lagging in-
terests. Just as soon as Christmas is over pack
away all the evidences of the holiday gift idea.
Rejuvenate the bulletin boards and bring out new
displays. A hint of what the post-Christmas sea-
son will offer should be forecast before the first of
the year. Along with this should come new pub-
licity. Let the newspapers know your new activity
plans and get a new craft bulletin for your per-
manent mailing list. New bulletins and posters
posted in the schools will keep the youngsters in-
terested. Extend special invitations to Scout,
Y.M.C.A. and Y.\V.C.A. and other youth agency
executives to attend the craft classes for new
suggestions for their own groups.

The Place

Another thing to consider is the location of your
Community Craft Shop. Is it in an unattractive,
dark, out-of-the-way place? If it is, why not try
to do something about it?

The Davenport Community Craft Shop is lo-
cated in the Public Library. Situated in the cen-
ter of business activity, it has proved both'popular
and convenient. The Library Board graciously
accepted our request for craft shop space and
turned over two large, light rooms on the second
floor. Aside from the benefits already mentioned
in using the public library

By ROBERT L. HORNEY

Director of Recreation
Park Board

Davenport' Iowa

shop space, why not try? It’s
easy to attract people to your
shop, because the library gets
hundreds of them every day any-
way, and they’ll look in out of
curiosity first, then come back regularly if your
displays and suggestions are varied and attractive.

Ianuary is no time to allow any deficiencies in
ingenuity to occur. Rather it should be the time
of the year when your craft projects look so
tempting that even the most apathetic is lured to
a new hobby. The phlegmatic soul will be so at-
tracted by the activities you offer that she will
brave the slush and sleet in exchange for the pair
of plaster plaques she’s creating for the guest
room!

What to Make

Of the crafts which were so in favor as gifts,
the following may continue to be popular at any
season:

Photo-Snap Books are always in demand, espe-
cially with amateur photographers and candid cam-
era fans increasing at such a rapid rate. The book
covers, measuring about 8%” by 14”, are made of
ply wood. When the wood is sanded to perfect
smoothness it is ready to decorate with wood
burning. \Ne tried Mexican designs and found
them very effective.

While not a new craft, hand-carved jewel and
glove boxes never seem to wane in popularity.
Boxes made from bass wood best lend themselves
to carving. They may be had from a number of
commercial craft companies at reasonable cost.

The craft is to be highly

for your shop, you will find
the cooperation of the libra-
rians very valuable in mak—
ing special craft book dis-
plays for you and in fer-
reting out all sorts of
interesting source materials
for any number of crafts
such as weaving, puppetry,

'modeling, wood carving and

the like. If you haven’t
thought about approaching
your library board for craft

Is your community craft shop likely to be
the victim of a post-Christmas lethargy?
Does it enjoy the rush accompanying Christ-
mas gift makingI only to suffer from neg-
lect after the new year? The pre-holiday
season usually inspires everyone to a frenzy
of ambition and activity. The November
and December bustle around a craft shop is
largely a problem of how to take care of
everyone, but January may bring a slump in
attendance unless a special effort is made
to keep interest at its height. After the let-
up of the holidays. it is a clever leader
who can keep activity at a peak! There
are ways, however. of maintaining interest.

commended, as it affords
one of the best opportuni-
ties for original design, and
the art of wood carving is
one of the oldest and most
fascinating of all crafts.
Two other craft ideas
which are popular most any
month of the year are in-
door Hower boxes and hang-
ing flower pots made from
gourds. The indoor flower
boxes are made of ply wood

' 547

548 _ A “TONIC” FOR THE CRAFT SHOP

to fit any sized window desired. When painted in
bright colors they add a touch of spring to any
room, and may launch you on a new hobby—in-
door gardening—which is quite another thing and
worthy of more discussion than this article
can give.

The gourd flower pots are simple and easy to
make. Scoop out the seeds and let the gourds dry.
After this you’ll find it fUn to paint them in clear
primary colors. Hang in the sun room this winter
and forget the blizzard outside.

Dress ornaments such as clips, pins, buttons,
belts and jewelry are always in demand. In our
shop we use two materials for this craft—wood
or pewter. Wooden bracelets, buttons and the like
are much in vogue and command good prices in
the shops; but they can be made for little money
and can be individually different when created
by you.

Pewter is a highly malleable metal and lends
itself readily to most methods known of beating
down, raising and casting. It is an admirable
metal for the beginner in metal work because it is
a soft metal, and scratches, dents and irregulari-
ties are easily removed. Unlike copper and brass,
bowls and plates can readily be pounded into
wooden forms, assuring the beginner in metal
craft good results from the start. If you haven’t
tried this metal in your craft shop you’re sure to
find it interesting to work with. Right now the
young set are fond of large pewter monogram-
med pins.

\Ve also use the tooling or modeling of thin
soft metal as an introduction to more skilled metal
crafts. Requiring only a few tools, modeling
metal has practically no limits. The metal is easily
cut with an old pair of scissors and only inex-
pensive wooden imodeling tools are needed to
place the lines of the design onto the metal. In
this way the classes have created interesting metal
plaques. name plates, greeting cards, award shields
and similar articles. The modeling metal comes in
discs of copper, pewter or aluminum.

Christmas is the big season for making table
decorations, party favors and ornaments, but this
craft need not be limited to the Yule season. We
have found that hostesses are just as anxious for
new party ideas other seasons of the year. If you
keep seasonal suggestions on display you’ll find
there’s always a demand. Unusual and interesting

mantel arrangements may be included in this
service too.

W'eaving is another year—round craft which
never lags in popularity. Woolen scarfs, mittens,
ear muffs and rugs are favorite winter projects.

Some of the crafts new to our shop, which we
are introducing now or after the holidays, include
new block printing ideas, cork craft, suede craft
and shaggy rugs.

With Christmas cards out of the running for
another year, block printing can now lend itself
to valentines, mottoes or book plates. The book
lover will cherish a book plate which will desig-
nate his books and bring them back to the fold
when they show a tendency to stray. Block print-
ing is also highly effective when used on linens
and silks for a whole variety of interesting articles.
Block printing has unlimited possibilities for de-
sign for costumes stressing the peasant or dirndl
influence.

The preserving of baby shoes by mounting them
on book ends is one of the most popular of craft
ideas. The baby shoe is mounted on a wooden
base, the base carved to represent a book. Then‘
the shoe is filled with white modeling plaster and
allowed to “set.” Even the wrinkles and the bent
over shapes of the tiny shoes may be preserved
this way. When the plaster is dry the book ends
may be antiqued white or painted with silver, gold
or bronze and preserved indefinitely.

Cork is an inexpensive and practical material
from which book marks, luncheon place mats, hot
pads, coasters, bracelets and many other small
projects may be made. Cork may be easily cut out
with a sharp knife or scissors and can be decorated
with water colors, oil paints, or drawing ink.

Leathercraft has always been, and undoubtedly
will continue to be, one of the popular crafts of
the shop. The first of the year, however, we are
introducing suede for jackets, hats, gloves, belts
and other costume accessories. This leather which
is high style now is a soft pliable and durable
leather, and may be obtained in a wide variety of
attractive colors. Remember that after you cut
the main article the suede scraps may be used for
coin purses, coat flowers, or applique designs.

Shaggy rugs are popular with matrons. Yards
of canvas and a heavy wrapping cord very much
like chenille provide the materials. The canvas is
the base for the rug and may be cut any desired
size or shape. The chenille is wound ten times
around a heavy cardboard, 3%” by 3%”. Then
the chenille is clipped at each end of the card-
board and the center sewed to the canvas with

(Continued on page 584)

A Different Kind of L

An interesting community pro—
iect in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin,

is a Children's Theater Guild

in which a group of non-pro-
fessional adults is presenting

plays exclusively for children

By
ETHYL PINE VAN HERCKE

ECAUSE the women of a community in
Wisconsin determined that their chil-
dren should not grow up without

creative as well as recreational advan-
tages, a different kind of little theater has
come into being in VVauwatosa. It is not
the kind that keeps children from doing
their homework for there is ample time
for reading, writing, and arithmetic; and
there are glorious hours left for skating
and swimming. Children are not the per-
formers in the Children’s Theater Guild
of W auwatosa. They are the audience that shrieks
with delight at the antics of Billy Graybeard or
Jack-in—the—Box. Mothers, teachers, and fathers
I with such professional letters as MD. and D.D.S.
tacked onto their names do all the acting, for Miss
‘ Marjorie Colton, a teacher in the public schools
lwho directs the stage plays, believes that parents
and teachers have a better understanding of child
Ipsychology and can portray characters from the
iworld of fantasy more successfully than can
| professionals.
A VVauwatosa mother, Mrs. Clarence Muth,
"originated the idea and interested the Parent-
Teacher Association and Superintendent of
Schools, Professor William Darling, in the proj—
.ect. And then the entire community became inter-
ested. High school students set to work making
posters; scenery was painted, and scenery shift—
ers were engaged. Boy Scouts were trained to act
as ushers and received credit from their units for
their services in the project. With the whole com-

l

ttle Theater

 

Milwaukee Journal Photo

The Wauwatosa Children's Theater Guild

in a presentation of "Hans Brinker"

munity designing stage settings and costumes and
with mothers and W PA workers making the cos-
tumes, the village has been very happy about its
community project.

Funds are raised for materials, costumes, and
for equipment by the sale of tickets through the
schools, and the plays are held in the high school
auditorium. Because of the large attendance it
has been necessary to limit the sale of tickets, and
at a number of performances many children had
to be turned away. A partial remedy for this has
been found in the sale of season tickets and in
repeat performances. However, a new high school
will soon be completed, and the new auditorium,
it is believed, will accommodate all the children
who want to come.

At the close of every performance the children
are loathe to leave, and they are invited to come

549

550

across the stage and talk with the actors. More—
over they are urged to express their likes and dis-
likes. and notes are made of their opinions. In
this way a record is secured of the children’s

reactions to the plays.

Original Plays Used

Although many plays requiring the payment of
royalties have been presented, the Guild fosters
creative ability by putting on original plays writ-
ten by mothers in the community. Mrs. Harriett
I.ightfoot has written a play, “Dottie Calico and
Her Mischievous Rags,” which has attracted
state-wide attention. The play, rewritten for
broadcasting, was included in a series of five plays
presented over \VTMJ, Milwaukee Journal Sta-
tion, by the fourth and fifth districts of the Par-
ent—Teacher Associations during 1938 and 1939.
It has been the dream of the Guild that it might
bring these adult performances for children into
the smaller towns and outlying districts so that
children throughout \Visconsin, Michigan, and
Illinois might enjoy this entertainment. Through
these broadcasts this dream is being partially
realized.

The performers are chosen from groups who
come for tryouts, and every effort is made to
select players whose voices carry well rather than
those who have had long dramatic training. From
one unit of twenty players the cast has grown
to three units with a total of approximately sixty
players.

_ The Plays They Enjoy

Mrs. Muth, who serves as executive director,
is able to determine the types of plays the chil-
dren most enjoy from the information she has
received from questionnaires sent hundreds of
school children. They are, she finds, especially
fond of fairy tales, but the trend seems to be to—
ward stories from real life. On the questionnaires,
which are signed by the parents, the children state
the order of their preference for plays produced
and make suggestions for future performances.

Many requests for performances have come to
the Guild from Parent-Teacher organizations
throughout the state, but because the performers
are engaged in professions in Milwaukee and
W auwatosa it is not possible to make engagements
at long distances.

Objectives

From the beginning the Guild has had dehnite
aims:

A DIFFERENT KIND OF LITTLE THEATER

To set a high standard of entertainment for
children

To develop cultural interest in the theater

To stimulate creative imagination

To set standards of good speech, diction, and
dramatics

To create interest in customs of other lands

To increase knowledge of good literature

To influence behavior patterns by setting ac—
cepted standards of courage, honor, industry,
unselfishness

To bring beauty, laughter, entertainment to those
who cannot afford expensive theater tickets

To foster creative ability in the community

To cooperate in ‘making Wauwatosa “recreation I

conscious”

Community Cooperation

Strictly a community project, noncommercial
and experimental, the people of Wauwatosa have
joined hands in preparing and presenting the fall
and spring series, which is usually climaxed by a
circus or marionette show.

The interchanging of plays with other com-
munities, such as West Allis and Shorewood, in-
sures .wholesome entertainment throughout the
year. It brings the children a greater variety of
plays and, according to Mr. Thomas Greenwill,
\Vauwatosa Director of Recreation, it is the ideal
recreation for stormy Saturdays.

Like Milwaukee, \Vautwatosa is proud of its
low delinquency record, its freedom from gang
hangouts, and its conspicuously low crime record.
The entire citizenry has become education con—
scious. In almost every family one or more mem-

bers are engaged in studying speech, English,,

photography, painting, stenography, knitting,
leather tooling, or short story writing.

Various women’s organizations urge the intro-
duction of new and interesting adult courses
which are taught by those successful in their vari-
ous fields in the community. These civic-minded
women have a way of getting what they want
because they go and get it! They have faith in the
ability of \Vauwatosa citizens and give them every

opportunity to develop creative ability.

if any of our readers have information regard—

ing projects similar to the interesting project.

which the W auwatosa Children’s Theater Guild is
conducting, we shall be glad to receive accounts
of what is being done so that we may publish
additional information in RECREATION.‘

*.__.___ ‘-

 

Ultra Modern Recreation

ina

Small Community

N 1938 SEQUIN, TEXAS, a community of 7,500

I people, celebrated its centennial, marking a
hundred years of steady growth and develop-
mcnt. Seguin is a city in its own rights, owning
its power plant, and distributing water and lights
to its citizens at a nominal fee. The town not only
has been able to stay free of debt, but has stored
up a substantial reserve fund while steadily build-

ing and making improvements for the past thirty-
two years.

Among the first things the casual visitor will
notice on entering Seguin are such structures as
the new municipal building built of Texas lime-
stone and outfitted with all the modern equipment
such as tile floors, Venetian blinds, air condition-
I ing, and indirect lighting. On reaching the square,
l

l
l
l
i
l

 

the visitor sees the massive new courthouse also
of limestone and modern in every respect.

 

In Max Starcke Park

One mile south of Seguin, along one of the
seven paved highways leading through the town,
“ is beautiful Max Starcke Park. This modern rec-
reation plant, which occupies seventy-five acres on
the north bank of the Guadalupe River, is one of
the most complete of its kind in the South. Here
all recreation activities are
planned in one unit.

The Playground
The visitor enters through a
wide gate to see just ahead of

By
WILLIAM P. WITT

Former Superintendent of Recreation
SeguinI Texas

him a white concrete bathhouSe and rec-
reation building. On the right is the play-
ground built not only for children but for
adults and furnished with permanent
equipment such as swings, slides, a jungle
gym, and a concrete sand box with its
sand filter to purify the sand. On the
northwest end of the playground are lo-
cated two asphalt tennis courts well lighted
for night play. In the center of the play-
ground an area I 50’ by 200’ has been set
aside for such games as shuffleboard, badminton,
volleyball, horseshoes, croquet, and teniquoits. This
area has a concrete curbing around it, and each
playing court is provided with a guard rail to
protect the players. There are four concrete shuf-
Heboard courts, two croquet courts, and one each
of the other game courts. The entire area is well
lighted for night play, as is all of the park.

In the northeast corner a lighted stage has been
constructed for community night programs. Last,
but not least, running parallel with the south
fence is an archery range. On the left is a well
kept softball diamond lighted for night play and
equipped with bleachers for spectators. All the
equipment for these activities are obtainable from
a modern storehouse located in the center of the
playground.

The Bathhouse

The bathhouse has a unique feature in a 40’ by
90’ dance pavilion on the roof with various col-
ored lights encased all around the wall and with
floodlights for special occasions. Overshadowing
the bathhouse is a massive pecan tree, one of the
several hundred pecan trees scattered over the

A city of 7500 people makes a convincing answer to
the argument that a small community does not need
and cannot support a year-round recreation program

551

552 ULTRA MODERN RECREATION IN A SMALL COMMUNITY

park and along the bank of the river. The bath—
house contains dressing rooms, a large ticket
booth, storage rooms, and a manager’s OH‘lCC. The
bathhouse is also equipped with a public address
system so that music is broadcast over the play-
grounds, swimming pool, and golf course for the
added enjoyment of the people at play. Often the
public address system is used to call doctors and
business men off the golf course when they are

needed.
Just west of the recreation building stands the

club house, similar in structure to that of the rec-
reation building. Separating the two buildings is
the swimming pool 100’ by 60’, enclosed by a
cyclone fence. The pool is modern in every re—
spect and has been given a fine rating by the
Texas State Health Department in Austin.

Golf Course. A paved road runs through the
park and along the banks of the river to the west
end of the golf course. This road provides a
wonderful drive and affords a fine View of the
entire park. The golf course is one of the best
nine hole courses in the state, and not only has
fine Bermuda grass, but in addition has nine bent
grass greens. These bent grass greens draw golf-
ers from all parts- of Texas as they afford an un-
usually flne putting surface. On the north bank
of the river a concrete boat landing has been con-
structed, and boating is enjoyed by many of the
Seguin citizens and visitors.

The Program

The Recreation Department has been organized
on a year-round basis and promotes winter activi-
ties as well as a more expansive summer program.
During the winter months such activities as dance
clubs, City League basketball, boys’ clubs, classes
for preschool age children, volleyball leagues,
dramatic clubs, and handcraft classes are con-
ducted to care for the leisure time of all ages and
types of people in the community. By working
hand in hand with the schools, the Recreation De-
partment has the privilege of using the school
gymnasium facilities in the carrying out of its
winter program. These facilities include the gram-
mar school and college gymnasiums for organized
sports and two of the school auditoriums for
plays. The playgrounds of one of the local schools
is used on Saturdays and after school hours to
promote supervised play for the adolescent boys
and girls.

The summer staff of the Recreation Depart-
ment is composed of the superintendent of recre-

ation, oche girl, two bathhouse attendants, three
lifeguards, two playground leaders, and a golf
professional. There is also a maintenance crew
hired on a year-round basis. During the winter
months the staff is cut to the superintendent and
two assistants. During the summer months NYA
girls have been used as extra help when needed;
however, all the regular staff is paid by the city.

Statistics for the period from May 19, 1938 to
September 19, 1938 tell an interesting story. The
picnic units were used by 25,098 people; 26,431
people used the swimming pool; 5,992 people
played golf; 3,101 people played shuffieboard ;
5,1 16 enjoyed ping-pong ; 1,821 played tennis; soft-
ball had a total of 14,000 players and spectators;
1,193 people held private dances on the roof;
community night programs drew 1,400: and the
Fourth of July water pageant attracted 5,000,
making an attendance of 89,152 people for this
period. The financial report for the same period
showed the following receipts: boat concession,
$55.59; golf course, $2,687.92; swimming pool,
$4,538.99; rental from roof, $72.00—making a
total of $7,354.50 in receipts for the four months’
period.

This. successful year-round recreation program
in Seguin proves what a group of civic-minded
people working together toward a set goal can and
did do for a community. Seguin, with its beautiful
buildings, paved highways, and its ultramodern
recreation center, has not only proved an attrac-
tion for the “home folks,” but has drawn people
to this modern little city from all parts of the state.

Leadership

Of course, in any progressive community there
must be a leader, and Seguin had an outstanding
one in its former mayor, the Honorable Max 4
Starcke, who is now operations manager for the 
Lower Colorado River Authority. This man, for 5
ten years mayor of Seguin, had a vision of prog-
ress for the town he loved and, being a man of
action, he has lived to see his dream come true,
supervising the actual work being done.

All the improvements Seguin has made would
not have been possible without the aid of WPA
which has furnished labor for nearly all the proj-
ects sponsored by the city in the last seven years.
Following in the footsteps of Mr. Starcke, the
newly elected mayor, the Honorable Roger W.
Moore, is continuing to lead the Way in the pro-
gressive movement already started in Seguin.

(Continued on page 585)

-v

Recreation for Children in a Democracy

recreation available to Pat, age

eleven, living in Burnett County, Wisconsin,
and Henry, the same age, living in Milwaukee?
Why doesn’t Jane’s mother understand why a girl
of twelve should be allowed to go with other boys
and girls to the church social? What can parents
do about Johnny—ever since he had that cold last
winter, he doesn’t seem to have any appetite or
energy enough to play? And how can a mother
attend the class on “Child Behavior Problems”
when her own child, age six, has to be taken care
of all day?

If we want all our children, thirty-six million
of them, to grow into the democratic way of life
with healthy minds and bodies, what do we need
to do? This question comes before the White
House Conference on Children in a Democracy
which meets in Washington this January. Six hun—
dred members will discuss recommendations for
improved recreation along with problems of
family income, economic aid, health and medical
care, social services, housing, schooling, religion
and family life. As a setting for the Conference
a brief resume is given here of the present situa—
tion in the light of the last ten years of progress.*

Our organized recreation resources are a, part
of industry, government, private organizations
and associations. These organized resources re-
flect the natural advantages of the land and the
capacity of the people who live on it. These re-
sources are inter-dependent ; none of them affects
the problems of leisure independently. This
resume does not deal with natural resources and
the capacities of our people. They are, howev&,

I S THERE a difference in the play and

no less important. Our organized forms of rec- '

reation are but the signposts which indicate the
needs and desires of people and the way in which
we have set about to meet them. '

What Money Can Buy
Some of our biggest national industries cater
primarily to the leisure interests of people. Our
radio resources have quadrupled during the last
ten years. Out of a total of 32,500,000 homes in
this country, 27,500,000 had radios on January I,

1939. These radios are used on the average of

*The reader is urged to refer to the
current series of articles in Harper:
Magazine called “Since Yesterday” as
they give us a graphic picture of the
whole “social climate” of the nineteen-
thirties, and remind us that it has been
ten years of “portentious change: ten
years of Depression and New Deal,
against a disturbingly altered back-
ground of international dissension and
totalitarian advance, leading to war.”

 

I r“

By IRMA RINGE

Miss Ringe was a member of the re-
search statt ot the White House Con-

ference on Children in a Democracy.
This article reviews the progress of
recreation over the past ten years.

four and a half hours daily—rural
families using the radio more each
day than urban families. The most popular radio
programs for young people are variety and com-
edy features like Fred Allen and Major Bowes.

Movie going has not quite recovered from the
effects of the depression. In 1938, the average
weekly attendance was eighty-live million; in
1930, one hundred and ten million. About one-
third of all persons attending are below the age of
sixteen. The favorite movies of young people are
closely related to their radio interests, running to
musical spectacles, adventure and comedy.

With the possible exception of theaters in a few
of our largest metropolitan centers and the pro-
gram of the former Federal Project of the WPA.
the legitimate theater has no large effect on the
leisure of our population. Some are asking the
question whether recreation agencies have capi-
talized much more on youthful knowledge and
enthusiasm for music as developed through the
radio than they have an interest in acting and plays.

Reading is often voted the most popular pas-
time of young people. However, estimates show
that not more than one-fourth of the reading
population reads books. Bookstores, like libraries,
are still urban institutions; approximately 51% of
our population, especially in rural areas, live in
communities without bookstores. Magazine read—
ers outnumber book readers six to one. During
the last ten years picture magazines such as Life,
Loo/c, Pic came into being and have gained large
circulation. Most popular of all are our daily
newspapers, roughly two thousand of them,
reaching a total circulation of forty million daily.
The features best liked by the younger members
of the family are the life and fortunes of “Orphan
Annie” and other comic strip characters, puzzles,
contests and continued adventure stories.

Traveling, especially by the automobile, to visit
friends, parks and resorts is also a great favorite.
During the depression travel suffered compara—
tively less than other forms of commercial recre-
ation. This was largely due to increased domestic

travel by car.
In addition to these larger groupings, there are

many types of recreation which
money buys as sporting goods,
athletic equipment, games, and
all the paraphernalia and ac-
cessories that go with hobbies.
Expenditures for these types

553

 

of items were estimated as being between fifty to
two hundred million dollars in 1935.

Who Buys Recreation?

The ability of families to buy these items of
recreation varies directly with the amount of in-
come which the family receives. What is our
family income? In 1935, 42 per cent of our fami-
lies had incomes less than $1,000 a year; 65 per
cent received less than $1. 500 a year; 87 per cent
less than $2,500 a year. Above this level there
were about 10 per cent with incomes up to $5,000;
about 2 per cent receiving between $5-$Io.ooo and
I per cent, with incomes of $10,000 or more. The
rural farm family? the low income wage earner
and the unemployed, and people in the south and
other depressed areas, have disproportionately low
incomes. These facts are important to all mem—
bers of the Conference on Children in a De—
mocracy. They are of special concern to those
interested in recreation because these groups are
the least able to purchase recreational goods and
services.

livcn within the same income groups, that is,
for two families each having four children and
each an income of $1,200. there exists a wide
'ariation in the kind of recreation which can be
bought, depending on where the family lives. The
same items of newspapers, movies, organization
fees, toys and tobacco may cost one family $87 a
year in Binghamton, New York, and the other
family 862 a year because they live in Kansas
City. A wide variation like this makes a big dif—

[BECK udTION FOR CHILDREN IN A DEMOCRACY

ference to a family
which must pinch the
pennies in order to
provide the necessities ,

of life.

Community Recrea-
tion Agencies, Public
and Private

Community recrea-
tion programs carried
out by recreation com—
missions, park depart-
ments, school boards
and other local gov
ernment agencies are
reported each year in
the June issue of this
magazine. We should
take great encourage-
ment in the fact that
by 1938, local public recreation bodies had re—
cuped all of the losses sustained in the depression
and in many respects reached new levels of ac-
complishment. The number of cities reporting
new recreation bodies, the number of new play-

the number of people employed full time (47 per
cent more than in 1932), the number of facilities
used, the number of participants, all show large

and important gains. All such facts show that we I

have made excellent progress. We still have a
large job ahead in holding gains such as these and
in eliminating the inequalities which exist among
cities. states and regions. We have states of large
population with but one city having a public rec-
reation agency; we have public recreation bodies
able to employ only part—time workers; we have

many programs operating only during the summer

months; we have too few activities especially de-
signed for the physically handicapped child; we

have paid less attention than we ought to the child _
with personality difficulties. All this we know '

means a long and hard job ahead with splendid
rewards for all citizens who share in the shaping
and making of the programs as well as for those
who enjoy the fun! ‘

Studies made in 1925, 1930 and 1935 show that

during these ten years total park acreage in—
creased 49 per cent. In the years 1930-35, facili-
ties for active recreation such as athletic fields,
swimming pools, golf courses, and play shelters
made important relative gains and show a grow-

grounds, the number of playgrounds open all year, .

l

l
n

i

l

l

RECREATION FOR CHILDREN IN A DEMOCRACY

ing popular demand for this type of recreation.
These gains reflect the use of federal funds in
recreation construction. The progress recorded in
many park statistics is heartening. We have our
eyes, however, on the many cities (three fourths
of those reporting) that are far below standards
established for park acreage; on the cities, espe—
cially those in the five to ten thousand population
group that have no parks at all; and on all those
active recreation facilities that have no leaders or
supervisors to teach Johnny to swim and help
Mary to know more about flowers than just
“Don’t Pick!”

Our school buildings are being increasingly used
for community recreation. As a result, new_con—
struction includes such features as nursery schools,
auditoriums, social rooms, shops and outside play
spaces. The multiple use of school buildings has
been excellently illustrated through articles ap—
pearing in the Architectural Forum, Architectural
Record and Progressive Ed ucatiou. Those phases
of the school curriculum concerned with health
and physical education are coming to be closely
identified with recreation. We have also many
examples of ways in which school administrators
are conferring with parents and recreation di-
rectors to plan children’s play centers, nursery
schools, camps and social-recreational activities
for young people out of school. Of special con-
cern to us is the fact that schools themselves often
lack funds to keep the doors open from nine to
five for 190 days in'
the year for their own
educational program.
Knowing as we do
that the outcomes of
education and recrea-
tion are so closely re-
lated, persons desiring
to see further use of
the school as a com-
munity center (espe-
cially in rural areas)
will have to face
squarely, with educa-
tors, the issues in-
volved. The results of
several outstanding
educational studies,
such as those made by
the President’s Advis—
ory Committee on Ed-

‘ ucation, by the Educa—

.l

555

tional Policies Commission, by the American
Youth Commission and also the report of the New
York State Regent’s Inquiry should be familiar
to recreation directors. The January meeting of
the Conference will give special consideration to
the problem of an adequate schooling for all
children.

The chance of having a good book to read on a
rainy afternoon is rather slim for many children.
Seventy-fOUr per cent of our rural population are
without public library service. To get books to
children and to make it possible for them to pur-
sue hobby interests on their own, we must have
additional public libraries.

Before ending our list of public agencies, we
must also count in the local museum and art gal-
lery, the health agency, the housing authority,
police department and welfare department. All
of these help out in locating neglected groups, in
working out programs for these groups and in
strengthening and diversifying the activities which
the commtlnity provides for its children as well
as adults.

National private organizations like the Boy and
Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Boys Clubs of
America are often represented in the community.
The combined membership of these organizations
is two million boys and girls. In the larger cities,
other national agencies such as the YNV. and

Y.M.C.A.’s, the Y.M. and Y.M.H.A.'s have local

units. Sometimes communities have settlements,

 

Com-tcsy U. 5. Housing Authority—Photo by Sckaer

556

educational alliances and welfare. associations
which have no direct affiliation to a similar na-
tional body. These agencies often receive their
funds, along with other private welfare organiza-
tions, from Community Chests. Approximately
one fourth of all Community Chest Funds are ap-
propriated for leisure services, many of which are
designed especially for children. In some 306
cities the financial consolidation has brought about
community coordination and planning through
Councils of Social Agencies. Within the last sev-
eral years, some of the larger cities have created
in these Councils a special division on recreation
or group work in order to give membership or-
ganizations continuous planning and advisory as-
sistance. Membership in Councils of Social agen—
cies includes both members and non-members of

the Chest.
The whole field of recreation has advanced

through the special emphasis which private agen-
cies have given, and are giving, to the problems of
leisure. Their best examples are the utilization of
volunteer leaders, the participation of citizens in
planning and advisory committees, provision of
programs for special groups, and the making of
community studies and surveys. All these are of
great importance and point to the fact the private
agencies have vital functions. Special studies in-
dicate that the participation of children from low
income groups is disproportionately small in some
organizations, that many centers are in need of
improvement and repair, that more funds are
spent for boys than for girls, and that the smaller
towns and rural areas are often not reached at
all by units of many of the national private
organizations.

Your state has no distinct permanent organiza-
tion for recreation, either public or private. There
may be recreational functions carried out in con-
nection with public education, state parks and
forests, conservation, works, health, and welfare,
and planning agencies, but these are usually all
carried out by a department which subordinates
the recreational phases to the major responsibilities
of the particular office. With few exceptions,
most of these functions are carried out in each
office as though no one outside the jurisdiction of
that office, were performing related or similar
functions. The 1938 Yearbook of the National
Park Service, Park and Recreation Progress, dis-
cusses the problem of state recreation organization
in connection with an article on “Federal Grants-
in-Aid for Recreation.” The question is fairly

RECREATION FOR CHILDREN IN A DEMOCRACY

new to us and it probably will be of increasing
importance as we attempt to develop inter-com-
munity cooperation within the state and coordina-
tive relationship with the types of assistance
available from different federal bureaus and
departments.

State Park and Forest acreage on January I,
1939 totaled over six million acres for our nation.
One half of this acreage lies in two states—#New
York and Michigan. The addition of four more
states—*California, Massachusetts, Montana, and
Texas—accounts for over 70 per cent of this
total. Reports show that state parks devoted to
active recreation and providing day-use facilities
within reasonable distance of metropolitan centers
are inadequate. Virtually no state park facilities
for Negroes exist; this is a particularly serious
matter in our southern states. '

Some state planning agencies have given special
emphasis to recreation. Although surveys and re-
ports are often confined to tourist vacationing and
land planning, they show a growing appreciation
of the broader aspects of state planning for the
leisure of all the people.

Your national government during the past ten
years has done more in the field of recreation than
in any other decade. Much of this came about
through programs to give employment to the un-
employed and to speed the return of purchasing
power. As a result, public recreation made rapid
advances and has given us an indication of popu-
lar response to opportunities for play and recrea-
tion. The last decade has seen tremendous in-
terest and participation in informal games and less
pretentious sports as camping, softball, tennis,
swimming, archery, handball and the like. Much
of this Was made possible through the aid and
assistance of federal funds.

The record of the achievements of the federal
agencies justifies more elaborate treatment than
can be given here. We must keep in mind that
many programs and new social legislation directly
affects the leisure of our population through reg-
ulating hours of work, extending economic aid,
electrifying rural homes, giving employment,
making possible continuing education, clearing
slums, and extending of health services. Affect-
ing recreation more directly are the programs of
the National Park Service, Forest Service, Ex-
tension Division of the Department of Agricul-
ture, Work Projects Administration, National
Youth Administration, Civilian

(Continued on page 585)

Conservation .

Bicycling—the Sport That Came Back!

With bicycle sales mounting into astonishingly high figures; with
cities setting aside bicycle trails in their parks and passing or-
dinances controlling the licensing of bicycles and their use; with
the formation of bicycle clubs everywhere and the growing con-
cern on the part of municipalities for making the sport as safe as
possible, there can be no question of the popularity of bicycling!

Biking Makes the Headlines

By LORNE C. RICKERT

Director of Recreation

Ocean City' New Jersey

are lulled into passivity by “easy” recreation,

biking strikes an interestingly new note. There
are many reasons why this old sport has been re-
vived and is again coming into its own. Foremost,
perhaps, is the economic one. Children are no
longer taught that there will be two cars in every
garage. Although many have still to make the
discovery, the bicycle is one of the best ways of
getting there at low cost. Still others look at
pedaling purely from the health angle. Groups of
middle—aged men and women cyclists are not an
uncommon sight on the
l boardwalks of many of

IN THIS DAY and age when thousands of people

 

Milwaukee boys go adventuring in Michigan
under the sponsorship of the Optimist Club

our beach cities and on trails throughout the
country.

Biking is becoming more and more a social ac-
tivity. In its reincarnation it has blossomed forth
as a group activity. As a means of getting there
in a hurry the bicycle still leaves much to be de-
sired; as a way of really seeing the countryside
it has few rivals. It will take you along smooth
highways, over gravel roads, through thickets, and
when hnally a path is no longer available it can be
pushed with little effort. By virtue of these char-
acteristics, the bicycle can take you to places in-
accessible by automobile. Since the greatest speed
you can attain is merely “loaiing,” by modern
standards, you can linger long enough really to
enjoy your surroundings. We are prone nowa-
days to appraise scenery by the extensive amount
rather than to value it for its intensive worth.

Outside of these arguments, biking gives one a
feeling of achievement and
mastery. Recreation lead-

 

 _ M .'.'
Courtesy Cycle Trades, Inc.

557

U1
U1
OO

 

Courtesy Cycle Trades, ‘Inc.

ers are becoming more and more convinced. in a
world with so much of it vicariously and synthe-
tically enjoyed, that recreation involving activity
and exertion of some kind, whether mental or
physical, as biking does, has an exhilarative and
a strengthening effect.

Blazing the Trail

Last June the author was one of a party of
eight pioneers who circled the city of Milwaukee
on a trail-blazing bike trip in which a route, mostly
over secondary roads and by-paths, was charted.
Among the cyclists were Sam Snead, Boy Scout
Commissioner, who had visualized such a trail for
the scouts, Harold S._ (Zip) Morgan, Milwaukee’s
Director of Municipal Athletics, and Louis Pier—
ron, grand old man of bicycling, who has reached
the age of 69 on a steady diet of bike trips.* It
was felt by the sponsors that this expedition
would do much to eliminate the danger of pedal—
ing through heavily—traveled thoroughfares and
* Mr. Pierron has, for the last ten or twelve years, been taking

birthday trips with mileages equivalent to his age. Plans are

already being made for a special seventy mile trip on his
next birthday. In 1929 he pedaled from Milwaukee to the

Pacific coast and last summer to the New York World’s Fair.

covering a hundred miles per day. He is also a eo‘leetor of

old bicycles, of which he has accumulated a rare dismay,
including many “jallopies” of ancient vintage.

BICYCLING—THE SPORT THAT CAME BACK!

traffic hazards. The end product
of the trip was a map. showing
biking enthusiasts hOW to circle
Milwaukee through beautiful sur-
roundings without becoming in—
volved in traffic snarls. Added
to the map was a prospectus
showing the outing and camping
facilities of the various county
parks through which the expedi—
tion had passed.

Organizing the Trip

Encouraged by their leaders,
Milwaukee recreation workers
have organized bike hikes with
great success. To promote these.
much persuasive effort was nec-
essary, since group bike trips are
still something comparatively
new. But club leaders had suffici—
ent faith in the worth of biking
as a co-recreational group activity
to see it through its darkest
hours. Much advertising was done
through posters, bulletin board
notices, and personal solicitation.

The first trip undertaken from the Auer Avenue
Social Center on a gray, threatening, fall day in-
terested only nine participants. The following
spring a brief notice resulted in a turnout of over
twenty. There is every indication that subsequent
outings of this nature will bring even wider par-
ticipation with less effort, so thoroughly has bik-
ing sold itself. A promotional short cut can be
made by having some club or gang already in ex-
istence sponsor the trip and invite friends. For
reasons of safety, and because leadership will suf-
fer if too many make the trip, twenty or so is a
desirable number.

“Zip” Morgan, who has done a great deal of
hosteling here and abroad, suggests that each one
of the party on a bike trip be given some respon-
sibility. One of his Milwaukee expeditions in—
cluded a mechanic, a navigator, and a photog—
rapher, and the boys who were given these
assignments actUally studied and practiced their
prospective duties! The recreation leader is in-
terested largely in short excursions which can be
organized readily at a recreation center, which are
not too strenuous for girls and boys and require
no previous training. Assignments in the way of
program planning should, however, be made. If

, ~N
.-. \‘

u" mmum- v—v mm-.. m_v_ __..,_

‘.

BICI'CLING—THE SPORT THAT CAME BACK! 559

a club is sponsoring the trip, interest can be in-
creased by selecting, by democratic methods, such
officials as mess masters, navigators, chief repair-
men. Recreation leaders should never forget to
make promotional partners out of boys and girls
by giving them certain responsibilities on the trip.
A round trip of from twelve to thirty miles is
suggested. If a greater distance is chosen there
will be stragglers. Furthermore, much of the at-
traction of the bike hike will be the program at
the destination, so be sure to leave plenty of time
and energy for that.

A Co-Recreational Trip

A co-ed bike trip was undertaken with unusual
success at Ocean City, New Jersey, on Novem-
ber 10th. High school students, when queried,
showed great interest in mixed biking. The
Teachers’ Convention provided the day off neces—
sary for the occasion. The local newspaper as-
sisted greatly in publicizing the event. Sixteen
boys and girls participated. At the destination,
seven miles from their starting point, the group,
divided into teams of boys and girls, were soon
busy carrying stones from a nearby rock pile to
the fireplaces they were constructing. In a short
time they were happily roasting hot -dogs, apples,
and marshmallows on a mound overlooking the
nearby lake. A treasure hunt over the surround-
ing countryside followed, with the losers required
to remain behind the winners all the way back.
And, to the prospective promoter of bike trips——
by all means take along a camera! Good times
recorded on film always whet the appetite for
more such fun and will do much to encourage
others to try it.

Touring on a Bike

There is no doubt but that the American Youth
Hostels have added impetus to the biking move-
ment. This organization has made bike outings
possible at a dollar a day, including food and lodg-
ings. In making the Milwaukee loop the cyclists
stopped at the Wauwatosa Hostel, where the con—
genial house parents gave them a friendly greet-
ing. These hostels have been set up to serve
those traveling under their own power and extend,
chain-like, across various sections of the country.
Two days of pedaling was recommended in mak-
ing the sixty-eight-mile loop, with an overnight

stop at the Hostel. The hostels pro-

vide, for more sa gume bike enthusiasts, an op-

portunity really to “go places” at a trivial cost
which can be met by anyone.

There are quicker ways of getting about when
one is pressed for time, but‘pedaling is Providing
a new source of pleasure for lovers of the out-
doors. There is little likelihood that the bicycle
will again be used to any great extent by men and
women going to work; the renaissance has brought
the bicycle bark for other uses. If you have
plenty of time, the bike will get you there rea-
sonably soon—and with a great deal more pleas-
ure. People are again beginning to appreciate
their scenery intensively, where the rule has been
to scan it extensively. More and more couples are
spending bicycle vacations. The little black patches
that whiz by automobile windows have become a
revelation to them. Groups are issuing from meet—
ing places throughout the country for social rec-
reation, the occasion being a renaissance of the
versatile little black steed. Theirs is the delight of
mastery, the opportunity to ride side by side and
really to see what lies behind those grotesque
images many of the American public are letting
slip by.

Safety for Cyclers

By JESSIE SCHOFIELD
Superintendent of Public Recreation

Salt Lake City, Utah

IN RECENT YEARS, the revival of interest in bi-
cycling by young and old alike has opened a
new problem for park and recreation departments.
What used to be a means of locomotion, as well
as sport, for people during the gay nineties is now
a leading pastime. Its value as a mode of exer-
cise as well as enjoyment is unsurpassed.

3icycle clubs have had a mushroom growth.
Bicycle shops have included rental of machines by
the hour and new shops have been opened to meet
the needs of the revival. Not only is the small
boy riding more but his older sisters and brothers,
and mother and father as well, are finding the joy
and activity that comes from balancing down the
road on two wheels.

This development in bicycling presents problems
to a modern city. Gone are the lanes winding
around the countryside. Gone are the dirt roads
with slow moving horse and buggies. In their
places are paved streets with fast moving traffic.

560 BICYCLING—THE SPORT THAT CAME BACK!

Bicycling is easier on a hard—surfaced road, but
safety comes before pleasure. Sidewalks are safer
than the street for a small boy on a bicycle, but
when riding there he is a hazard to the pedes—
trian for whom sidewalks were built.

Last year, the Police Department in Salt Lake
City was asked by the Parent-Teacher Association
to provide a safe place for boys and girls to ride
their bicycles. The matter was referred to the
Park Department.

For the last few years the park roads have been
closed to automobiles in the early morning hours
and reserved for bicycle riding. It is great fun,
in the cool, crisp hours of the morning, to cycle
around the park, but when the day’s traffic starts
to roll, when the park drives are filled with an
ever—streaming maze of cars, bicycle riders are in
jeopardy.

A year ago, under the supervision of P. H.
Goggin, Commissioner of Parks and Public Prop-
erty for Salt Lake City, a forward step was made
to provide a safe, yet enjoyable place in which
to cycle.

When Liberty Park, the largest park in Salt
Lake City, was, built, a bridle path was con—
structed. With the growth of the city, horseback
riding and riding academies moved nearer the
canyons. The bridle paths, idle for many years,
were converted into lanes
for bicycle riding only.
Signs were made of gal-
vanized iron
and painted
with “This
Walk for Bi—
cycles Only” or
“This Walk Set
Aside for Bi—
cycle Riding,”
a n d o t h e r s,
“End of Lane.”
A sign of some
sort was placed
at strategic
parts to desig—
nate the lanes.

Pedestrians
are asked to use
regular walks.
The lanes do
do not cross
any traffic
drives, though

The bridle path in one of Salt Lake City's

parks has become a bicycle lane, and there
are signs to direct the cycler on his way

 

some are parallel to them. The lanes traverse some
of the lovely beauty spots in the park. They are
lined with trees and consequently are lovely and
cool. They have solved the problem of bicycling
there.

A rack is provided at one of the entrances to
the bicycle trail where bicycles may be locked
while the owners participate in other activities the
park affords. Bicycle shops cooperate by telling
new patrons of the bicycle lanes.

The project has been so well received that
tracks or lanes are being built in other parks.
Salt Lake City is hoping to increase the interest in
cycling, yet decrease its traffic hazards.

In Other Cities

Manhattan, Kansas. The Manhattan Bicycle
Club was organized by the students of the Junior
High School in 1937. Committees drew up a code,
a set of rules, a membership card, and a license
card. The Safety Council of the Chamber of
Commerce and the City Commissioners approved
and endorsed the club.

Boston, Mass. The Boston Bicycle Club is a
famous~old organization which celebrated its 60th
anniversary in 1938.

Reading, Pa. The Junior and Senior Bicycling
Clubs for girls were organ-
ized in 1935. The program
includes breakfast rides, all
day rides, ‘sca-
venger hunts,
picnic rides,
splash rides,
and overnight
camping trips.
New York
City. The Col-
lege Cycle Club
has “no dues,
no fees, no ,
charges, no
mailing list.”
All expenses
are shared.
Last July and
August the
Club made a
tour of Mexi-
co, traveling
a b o u t f i f ty
miles a day.

The Twenty-Fourth Recreation Congress

One who stood in the "marketplace of Play"
gives her impression of the wares offered!

E STOOD in the market-
W place of Play and list-

ened to the merchants
calling their wares.

They were selling us a merchandise that had
strange weave and lustre. For one booth hung
out a baseball bat and a deep knee bend; one a
square dance and a woven basket; one the grave
cloth of citizenship; and still another the hunger
of the spirit. But they were all play; they were
the wares these merchants were selling.

The men from the hills and valleys and the sea-
coasts who came with the pennies of their under-
standing to buy merchandise might well have felt
intent, confused. They walked in the bazaar of
Bagdad, with many a bright and glittering ware
hung out for their gaze. There were many voices
among the merchants. There was the salty, bal-
anced voice of Boston Town; the schooled and
adult tone of New York State; the young and
lusty and adventurous voice of the Middle West;
the gentle plea of the South; the bland, alert ac-
cent of the West Coast. The music of the drum
and bugle playing in the square was a fine com-
panionship, and the Inn at the corner gave for
food the strong dish of Opinion.

The travelers threw down their pennies and
bought lavishly. They carried home hope in their
knapsacks, and memories in a silver wrapping,
and the new dependable tools of their business.
One traveler told his fellow that his merchandise
was a fruit that the more he pared, the more skins
appeared, urgent and unfamiliar. And the scribes
of Boston Town listened and wrote, so that the

fame of the marketplace spread very widely.
The host at the Inn that fed the travelers was

‘ not a man, but a spirit. He was the spirit of a
‘ man who held that education could get more from

one wide-eyed rebel than from a regiment of con-
formists. A first-hand man, acquainted with
laughter; a man who thought that playgrounds

i were a right thing for children, so spent his life

working to provide them—a man called Joseph
Lee. His spirit was omnipresent. You could feel

By JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK

Director of Playgrounds
Oak Park, Illinois

his fingers closing about the
gavel that—made from a tree
on the host’s own grounds by
Ernst Hermann, a great player
in his own right—presided over the proceedings
when the merchantmen and travelers met to share
their notions of an evening.

But the host had left his mantle to another man
who carried on in his stead and assigned the
guests to the rooms of thought in the Inn. He
was John H. Finley, a man with a heart that the
years could not touch, and a mind that knew both
old and new wisdoms.

And what of the wares? There was the distaff
and shuttle of Abba Hillel Silver, who contended
that men supplemented the deficiencies of human
life with the arts, with sports, with play, holding
that the creative use of free time was one of the
great pillars that upheld the nation’s temple of
Government. There was the man who set up the
scaffolding of the marketplace, Thomas E. Rivers.

There was the purple and fine linen trappings
of the booth of six great teachers, Ernest M. Best,
Daniel L. March, Leonard Carmichael, William
Mather Lewis, Paul D. Moody and Hugh P.
Baker, who thought that leisure was the time men
had to serve the community, that play was the
revitalizing thing that gave men strength, ability
and faith, that extracted a new alchemy from
friendship. There was the solidly decked counter
of Paul V. M cNutt with its wares of recreation
come-of-age. There was play and happiness, the
branch of aloe that Frank Kingdon made to blos-
som. There was Ralph L. Lee selling the con—
vincing theme that in the freedom of compulsion
and the liberty to indulge natural desires, lay the
backbone of recreation, while Henry W. Holmes
leant across the years and evoked the flavor, the
thrill, the humor and the glory of play in tribute
to the spirit of Joseph Lee.

The warp and woof of every ware in the mar-
ketplace was a national way of life, and the dis-
cussion leaders laid out a many-sided fabric for
the buyers. There was Tam Deering’s stress on

561

562 THE TWENTY-FOURTH RECREATION CONGRESS

 

JOSEPH LEE

He was hostI in spirit, at the
Inn which fed the travelers

the qualities that go to make up leaders; V. K.
Brown, pioneering man, who contended that rec-
reation must be experienced in order to savor its
reality; Otto T. Mallery, who has tasted play and
known its bounty; Charles English, who believed
that men should build abilities to discriminate,
judge and set standards both for themselves and
their community; William G. Vinal, knowing
some wise things about natural laws and forces;
A. D. Zanzig, who had caught some native rhythm,
some beat of men’s hearts; George H jelte, giving
sound counsel in the protection of a national way
of living; Harry Overstreet setting new bounds
and horizons; Ethel Bowers, wise and tried in her
skills; Eva W. White, who offered sage counsel
in the training of leaders; and there were the tem-
pered and witty adages of Franklin Dunham.

And lastly there was a man who stood back
while others took the kudos and hurrahs, one
Howard Iiraucher, who thought that buildings
might crumble and disappear, but Socrates, Aris—
totle, Plato, the words of the Sermon on the
Mount and the Man who wrote the Sermon,
would never be forgotten; Howard Braucher,
who would rather have helped free a person like
Joseph Lee to live and work and play as he did
than to have built all the buildings of the world.

The sun set and the shadows gathered, and the
bright wares were folded and put away, and the
banners struck. The travelers journeyed home
with full hearts. Many of them felt the assurance
that there was growing up a new social conscious-
ness in their country, a new knowledge and pride
in its native crafts and music, its legends and
dances; a new belief in the right of every man to
dignity of living: a new responsibility for a form
of Government that lays down the pursuit of
happiness as one of its planks. One traveler had
the feeling that in that overHowing marketplace,
perhaps only one kind of merchandise had failed
to be laid openly enough on the counter, the
primary and major motive of playmjoy, that ’
essence golden and unassailable, of the wares
called Play.

JOHN H. FINLEY

He "assigned the guests to the
rooms of thought at the Inn"

l
i

ll

. - “I
I

 

“One cannot catch in cold type the real meaning
or even the essence of the Boston Recreation Con-
gress. . . . One must actually attend a Congress to
feel the power of the recreation movement. This
was true of the Twenty-Fourth National Recrea-
tion Congress in Boston. This meeting in the
home of Joseph Lee was especially blessed. His
memory and his spirit seemed to hover about us
throughout the week.”--T. E. Rivers, Secretary,
Recreation Congress Committee.

Education Moves Out—

Abandoned school buildings may
assets

Recreation Moves In

be valuable recreational

By THOMAS W. iLANTZ

Superintendent of Public Recreation
Reading' Pennsylvania

Finally, the Interracial Committee ap—
pealed to the Board of Education for the
use of an unused grade school building
with the understanding that the building
would be turned over to the Board of
Recreation to administer and finance. The
committee, composed of Negroes and
white citizens, was immediately granted
the use of the old building.

The Interracial Committee had already secured
the cooperation of the Board of Recreation in the
financing of the new project, and the Board had
included an item in the recreation budget. Both

 

thing of the past. School enrollments are on
. the decrease, but the urban school‘built in the
late nineties and now abandoned by school dis-

THE LITTLE red school house will soon be a

l
l
l

tricts, still has possibilities. The heating plant
might be inadequate, the building an architectural
monstrosity, nevertheless, eight rooms in an out—
nioded school building can be made useful for
recreation purposes.

This has been successfully demonstrated in
Reading, Pennsylvania, where a tremendous
building program on the part of the Reading

' School District over the past ten years, aided by

the allocation of PVVA funds. has resulted in the
abandonment of several grade school buildings
for the large consolidated unit.

An Interracial Committee of the Council of
Social Agencies, of which the superintendent of
recreation is a member, was the instrument for
acquiring the use of the first abandoned school
building. For a period of one year the Interracial
Committee gathered facts from the Bureau of
Census on the number of Negroes in each ward
of the city, studied the needs and objectives of an
Interracial Center, and figured costs to submit
later on when the Board of Education, Board of
RecreatiOn and City Council were approached.

the Board of Recreation and the Interracial Com-
mittee appeared before City Council at budget
meetings and the request for money to finance the
leadership, supplies, coal and light, was granted
without question.

Today, a nineteenth century grade school is be-
ing Used for a twentieth century recreation pro-
gram. Eight spacious rooms formerly used for
readin’, writin’ and ’rithnietic are the recreation
rooms of the children and adults. The first floor
of the old school lends itself admirably for a com—
bination library and ofhce, a table tennis room, a
fully equipped boxing room and a quiet game room.
On the second floor there are an arts and craft
room, a space for sewing and home economics, a
combination room used for music, dramatics,
clubs, and an active game room. Shower baths
have been installed in the basement.

A Craft Shop in One School

Now that the precedent has been set by the
Board of Education, and because of the success—-
ful operation of the Interracial Center, other

(Continued on plug? 587)
563

Robert Marshall

OBERT MARSHALL,
Chief of the Divi-
sion of Recreation

and Lands, United States
Forest Service, died sud-
denly on Saturday, No—
vember 11, 1939, while
traveling from Washing-
ton to New York City.

“Bob” Marshall, as he
was known to everyone,
was born on January 2,
1901. He was graduated
from the College of For-
estry, Syracuse Univer-
sity, in 1924, took gradu-
ate work at Harvard
Forest School, and re—
ceived a Ph.D. from
Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity in 1930 in the study
of plant physiology.

Bob entered the Forest
Service on June 19, 1925,
as Junior Forester at the Northern Rocky Moun—
tain Experiment Station, and was promoted to
Assistant Silviculturist in August 1927. In 1928,
after a leave of absence on other scientific work,
he resigned from the Forest Service to become
Director of Forestry, United States Indian Ser-
vice, \Vashington, D. C., a position which he held
until May 1937, when he returned to the Forest
Service as Chief of the Division of Recreation and
Lands. He was a Senior Member of the Society
of American Foresters, Explorers Club and Wil—
derness Society.

While in the Indian Service, he was instru—
mental in obtaining a higher degree of participa-
tion by the Indians, in the management of their
forest and range resources. He was a leading
factor in the establishment of approximately
4,829,000 acres of Indian reservation land as
roadless and wild areas.

As Chief of the Division of Recreation and
Lands, his leadership was particularly effective in
crystallizing the Forest Service’s recreation poli-
cies as a whole, and in emphasizing the develop-
ment of facilities for those in the lower-income
groups and the preservation of wilderness areas.

564

 

He was thoroughly con-
vinced that for many peo-
ple the forests constitute
the most precious en-
vironment for recreation.
During the last two years,
largely through his influ-
ence, twelve organization
camps were constructed,
to be operated in cooper-
ation with civic and other
organizations which often
defray part or all of the
vacation expenses of
groups that otherwise
could not afford such
camping experiences.

Bob Marshall’s favor—
ite recreation was to walk’
and camp in the wilder-
ness areas and in remote
places. He spent over a
year north of the Arctic
Circle in Wiseman,
Alaska, and then wrote “Arctic Village,” a des-
cription of the life there which received national
attention. In 1938 and 1939 he returned to Alaska
for his vacations, spending his time exploring the
wilderness and making notable contributions to
the maps of that area. His adventures on these
trips are recorded in two pamphlets, “Doonerak
or Bust,” 1938, and “North Doonerak, A’mawk
and Apoon,” 1939. He was a walker of renown
and considered a forty-mile hike over rough
mountain trails as a day’s pleasure. He once
walked seventy miles in twenty-four hours in
order to make suitable connections for a trip.

Bob Marshall’s death is an irreparable loss to
the cause of conservation and forest recreation
since it cuts short his invaluable service in the in-
terest of the contribution of the forests to the
welfare of the people as a whole, rather than of
their exploitation and enjoyment by a few. His
life was largely devoted to the enthusiastic and
fearless furtherance of those interests, and the

results of his thought and action will have a last-
ing effect.

(Continued on page 588)

Recreational Music

musical toys, particularly

when they contain some
of the fundamentals of actual
instruments. A toy drum
easily leads to a real one. A
small xylophone or set of
bells is the logical forerun-
ner of a piano, and a toy
trumpet, even when limited in range and a bit un—
certain of pitch, can act as a stimulus to more sig-
nificant wind exercises of the future.

Is it a sign of the times that our toyshops are
filled with imitations of the Whole machinery of
death by violence—rifles, machine guns, cannon,
bombs, torpedoes. pistols, helmets, uniforms, and
toy soldiers? The gangster and the murderer,
legal or illegal, seem to be brought consistently to
the attention of the young generation through
their playthings. Outside the toy arsenal that
forms so large a percentage of the current nurs-
ery equipment there is a Valhalla containing four
deities—Charlie McCarthy, Mickey Mouse, Don—
l ald Duck, and Snow White—a wooden dummy
\ and three series of drawings.
l

I AM STRONGLY in favor of

Musical toys can be found if you look for them,
but it is not easy to find them. There are two
kinds——those that require no skill whatever, be—
yond perhaps the turning of a crank, and those
that encourage whatever musical gift a child may
have and at least some slight initiative and con-
! trol for performance. The market is sadly lack—-
l ing in toys that produce really musical effects,
ll playing in tune and with a pleasing quality of
5 tone, perhaps even with some degree of permanent

stability. There should be miniature pianos,

trumpets, saxophones, organs, and other instru-
. ments that would create enough interest and per-
: mit a good enough performance to lead directly
' to the real thing.

To a certain extent this is being accomplished
by the manufacturers of musical instruments.
There is a small reed organ of decidedly musical
quality, already very popular with children. The
tiny “butterfly” piano, with its double Wings and
short keyboard, goes far beyond the tinkling toy
pianos of the past. _

Adults and children alike should enjoy playing

a “recorder,” similar to the ancient instrument of I

By SIGMUND SPAETH

Through the courtesy of Dr. SpaethI
famous "Tune Detective." it has been
made possible for us to reprint this

chapter from his new book. Music for
Fun, published by Whittlesey House.
McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., New York.

the same name. It is made of
wood, with holes pierced like
those of a flute, but played
from the end, and its tone is
excellent, with an accurately
pitched scale of two octaves.

PrimitiveWind Instruments

The ordinary tin flutes and
pipes will always be popular, regardless of their
musical effect, and a good deal can actually be
accomplished even with these primitive instru-
ments. There is much to be said also for the
ocarina, or “sweet potato,” which now comes in
four sizes, making a complete quartet possible.
(It was used in that way by four cowboys in-
terpreting the song, I’m bidin’ my time, in Gersh-
win’s operetta, Girl Crazy.) The ocarina can be
played quite musically, and is a popular member
of the hillbilly orchestra, but it is primarily a most
practical and nondisturbing toy.

Also heard in professional groups of the hill-
billy type is the trombone flute, which consists of
a double sliding tube and raises or lowers its pitch
by simply extending or contracting the total length.
Accuracy is difficult, and the quality is much the
same as a rather hollow whistle, but it is lots of
fun for young and old. The Hoosier Hot Shots,
popular dispensers of rural music on programs of
Uncle Ezra’s National Barn Dance, make good
use of the trombone flute, as well as of a wash-
board for rhythm (produced by thimbles on the
fingers), a cowbell and several different auto
horns.

The principle of guessing at pitch and sliding
t0 and from a tone employed by a number of
singers, both amateur and professional) is illus-
trated by some percussion instruments, as well as
such primitive pipes as the trombone flute. Chief
among them is the Flexotone, a piece of flexible
steel fastened to a handle and set in vibration by
hammers attached to both sides. The player shakes
the F lexotone to produce a musical sound, raising
the pitch by pressing on the steel with his thumb
and lowering it by relieving the pressure. Small
Flexotones are used chiefly as rattles, but the larger

ones produce a really lovely, ethereal tone, and
used to be common in dance bands.

565

566

Reviving Old Saws

Closely related to the Flexotone is the musical
saw, which likewise has its pitch varied by the
bending of the steel. It is usually held by cross-
ing the knees over the handle, with one hand
guiding the small end while the other starts the
tone with a bow or a hammer. The beauty of the
saw-music is in the changes of pitch after vibra-
tion has begun. giving the effect of pure air waves
in musical motion. An ordinary crosscut saw can
be used, although it is now possible to buy saws
specially made for music. It takes a professional
to perform on them really well, but the adult
amateur can get plenty of fun in trying.

Music in the Air '

A quality of tone somewhat similar to that of
the musical saw and the Flexotone is produced
by the Theremin, named for its inventor and still
something of a mystery to the American public.
Theremin, a Russian who came to this country
some years ago, simply harnessed the squeal of
radio and made it possible for people to draw
tunes out of the air by shaking their hands close
to an upright antenna. The closer the fingers, the
higher was the resulting tone. Volume was con-
trolled by passing the left hand over ,a coiled
antenna below. It is, of course, impossible to play
more than a single line of melody on the Theremin,
and accuracy of pitch and rapidity of execution
still present problems for all but the leading experts.

No Talent Required

The most encouraging thing about actual toys
of a musical nature is

that so many of them are

RECREATIONAL MUSIC

listing the cooperation of the familiar characters
of the nursery, right down to Mickey Mouse,
Donald Duck, and Snow White.

Why should not musical instruments appeal to
the eye as well as the ear? Part of the fascina-
tion of a trap drummer unquestionably lies in the
variety and color of his gorgeous equipment, and
bagpipers have a big advantage over ordinary pic-
colo-players. The instruments used by Shan-kar
and other Oriental dancers always create a pic-
torial effect which the Occidental symphony or-
chestra completely lacks. Our toymakers are wise
in their combinations of music and color and
human interest.

Thus even the smallest toddler can pull or push
a roller along the floor, listening to the musical
pattern that emerges from it and at the same time
watching a kaleidoscope of Disney characters or
other colorful decorations. There are several
varieties of musical tops which hum a pleasing
harmony as they spin. There is a splendid replica
of a pipe organ, producing five different chords of
fairly good quality at the mere turn of a handle.

A doll can be rocked in a cradle that plays
Rock-a-bye, Baby automatically, and a rocking-
chair produces similar music when either a child
or a doll sits in it. Musical vehicles for pulling
along the floor include a trailer that plays Jack
and Jill, and a Donald Duck, perched over a seven-
keyed xylophone, which he plays mechanically
from the ends to the middle and back again as he
merrily rolls along. .

Music Through Perforations
Perhaps the most elaborate of the music boxes
is the Melody Player,
whose crank handle

"Some years ago that distinguished educator.
Peter DykemaI head of the music department of
Columbia University'; Teachers CollegeI ap-
peared at a luncheon of the New York Kiwanis
Club. He came armed with a great variety of
musical toys-—drums. rattlesl horns. cuckoos-—-
and he distributed them among the Kiwanians
before beginning his talk. No sooner did the
dignitied businessmen have the toys in their

, . hands than the o d ll t t 't'
t1 y he an a se up a errI IO
M“ the turmng Of 3 din. Dr. Dykema watched them blandly as he

handle or eve” 1'0“ng let the noise go on for a few minutes. Then
along the floor, but prO- he raised his hand for silence. 'The next
ducmg something that time your youngsters make a noise like that.I
has a definite musical ap- he said quietly. 'remember how you reacted to
pea]. In most cases the the samt:i :Emptatipn.' .II} a short tlilme+ h: Jmad

‘ _ ‘ ._ A _ organize e mee mg In 0 an exce en r m
“Spouse 0f the car 15 cm band' and with one good musician at the pyiano
couraged by some color—

. they were able to play their new game as cred-
ful decoration, often en- itably as their own children might have done."

made for children too
young to do any real
playing but unquestion-
ably sensitive to rhythm,
melody, and harmony.
There is a great variety
of music boxes today,
requiring nothing more

causes perforated rolls to
revolve, producing reedy
but charming pieces, of
considerable variety. A
roll of The Star-Spangled
Banner comes with each
instrument, and extra
rolls can be purchased at
very reasonable prices,
the repertoire including
such favorites as
America, Dixie, Y a—iikee
Doodle, Home, Sweet
Home, Aztld Lang Syne,
Silent Night, and Carry

Me Back to Old Vir-f
gimzy. Here, by the way,

 

RECREATIONAL MUSIC 567

is the substitute for the
phonograph or personal
performance by parents in
their children’s earliest
days, with twenty-four
world-famous melodies
quite adequately played
with no effort at all, be-
yond the turning of a
crank.

Music boxes and toys
that wind .up and go
through motions, besides
producing music, are also varied and practical.
There is a mechanical drummer who should be an
inspiration to any rhythm-minded child. There is
an Aero Swing that plays the bugle notes, and a
merry—go-round with a distinct pattern of primi-
tive melody.

Christmas trees can be had that revolve and
play Silent Night simultaneously. A musical lamp
performs similarly to the tune of Rock-a-bye,
Baby. Swiss music boxes are hidden in miniature
pianos which need only to be wound up. There is
a gaily decorated hurdy-gurdy topped.by a danc-
ing monkey; a village with moving windmill and
animals, playing Lightly Row; and a “television
set” which turns out to be a series. of Jack and
Jill pictures accompanied by their own traditional
music.

One type of toy piano controls moving figures

.(Little Bo-peep and Mickey Mouse) above the

keyboard, which covers an octave and is played
by hand. A set of musical blocks produces a va-
riety of tones when individually squeezed. But
my own favorite remains a kazoo running into a
board on which the loose-jointed figure of a tap
dancer can be made to move rhythmically while
one hums any good, lively tune.

When it comes to musical toys that can really
be played, percussion leads the way and proves
most satisfactory in the long run. Toy drums ar
almost as good as the real thing, and, if they break
more easily, that may turn out to be no great
hardship. They have their pictorial side, too,
which compensates for any possible lack of aes-
thetic tone quality. A drum or a rattle is the quick-
est and easiest reminder of our savage background,
and the appeal of rhythmic noise is by no means
limited to the very young. I have seen, at night
clubs, otherwise dignified men whose greatest
treat was to be allowed to play the drums with the
orchestra. Incidentally, youthful drummers can

"In developing the Art, man first handled
the materials of natural things about him.
experimented with the nature of sound, made
his own instruments and improved them, and
through these experiences grew in musical
power and appreciation. The child too will
grow musically if he is given the opportun-
ity to experiment with elemental things—to one,
exploreI investigate, build. discard, and build
again; to use the product of his handi-
work, to sing and dance, make poetry, make
instruments and improve upon them; to wield
materials that are within his own ken."—Satis
N. Coleman in Creative M asic in the Home.

develop their skill and a
large repertoire by sim-
ply drumming with phono-
graph records or the radio.
It is an absorbing game,
though not exactly a quiet

Bells, Bells, Bells

All the variations of
bells and the xylophone
appear in toyland, as well
as in professional and
amateur music. Generally they are dressed up to
look impressive, sometimes with imitation ampli-
hers of the marimba and Vibraphone type, but
they generally play in tune and the quality of tone
is not bad at all.

The Japanese manufacture a very cheap set of
bells for children, but the American sets are
worth the difference in price because they are
supplied with little music books containing several
tunes that can be played by the numbers corre-
sponding to the bar bells. These bells have a
definite educational significance, in addition to
their practical value as toys. Arthur S. Garbett,
who directs and prepares the splendid Standard
School Broadcasts in California, under sponsor—
ship of the Rockefeller Foundation, has experi-
mented successfully with simple sets of bells in the
classroom and in the nursery, and believes they
are the logical foundation of creative as well as
interpretive work in music.

Toy pianos in general are not very satisfactory,
and the various string and wind instruments have
not as yet lent themselves to successful imitation.
There are tin trumpets, saxophones, and trom-
bones which look interesting and produce a num-
ber of tones with fair accuracy of pitch; but the
quality of tone is not particularly musical and
their life is likely to be limited, as the reeds give
out and the tubes become bent.

Homemade Musical Toys

If a household cannot afford the better type of
musical toys, it is perhaps wiser to attempt home
manufacture, and this in itself makes a wonder-
ful game. In place of bells, one can always use
glasses of water, partly hlled, playing upon them
with teaspoons, knives, or forks, or, perhaps more
safely, with a lightly tapping pencil. The pitch of
each glass varies even when it is empty, and the
one with the lowest tone should be selected for

568 RECREATIONAL MUSIC

the bottom of the scale. The higher notes are
achieved by simply pouring in enough water for
each desired pitch. This may be considerable
trouble, but it is worth it. With any luck, you
should get at least an octave, perhaps with the
half-tone steps of the chromatic scale, and this is
about as much of a setup as can conveniently be
handled by one person with two sticks.

Wine glasses generally give better tones than
tumblers, but be careful not to hit them too hard.
A thin glass will give out a lovely, light tone when
the rim is rubbed with wet lingers. This was the
principle of the old-fashioned “musical glasses”
mentioned by Oliver Goldsmith, for which Handel
once composed some special music.

How many people know that the common or
laundry pin is musical? If you hammer a row of
pins into a board, with most of their length pro-
truding, each one will give out a different musical
tone when touched by the point of another pin.
The shortest pins will sound the highest notes,
and the longer ones will be lower in pitch. A
complete scale can be worked out with a little
patience and a good ear, or the series can be made
to play a simple tune in the order of the pins, so
that you merely run down the line without worry-
ing about the order of the notes.

This, by the way, is the principle of many
music boxes, with a central pin merely revolving

and striking different metal pieces in turn. A pin-‘

wheel organ can be made by setting pins in a circle
on a board, tuned so that one round produces a
complete melody. Then a revolving disk is set in
the middle, with a pin protruding just far enough
to strike each pin in the circle as the disk is
whirled around. If you can make the disk revolve
by means of a paper pin-wheel above, set in
motion by blowing, you have a fine specimen of
homemade, mechanical organ.

A drum, of course, can be made of any sort
of tin can or wooden box. Down in Trinidad,
where the natives make up songs about visitors
on the spur. of the moment, big oil cans are popu-
lar as the basis of the rumba rhythms. Gourds of
all kinds make splendid percussion instruments,
as is demonstrated in the typical Cuban, Mexican,

and Hawaiian music.

Bones, Wood, and Cans

The clappers of minstrelsy’s end men were
originally actual bones, which explains why the
interlocutor invariably called one of his wing
comedians “Mr. Bones,” while the other was “Mr.

Tambo,” obviously armed with 'a tambourine.
Sticks of hard wood, rattled together make a good
substitute for the Spanish castanets, and there are
those who can get complicated rhythmic effects
from a pair of tablespoons. Practical clappers, a
variation of the Flexotone principle, can be
bought cheap or can be made at home by attach-
ing drops of lead to pieces of wood by flexible
strips of metal, like the supports of an old-fash-
ioned corset.

Boys of a past generation used to take the round
top of a tin can, pierce two holes in. it, and run a
double string through them. After a good twist-
ing, the tin disk could be made to revolve rapidly
in two directions, by simply pulling on the strings
with both hands and then relaxing them. A soft
hum, like that of a musical top, was the result,
kinder to adult ears than the insistent beating that
any metal surface seems inevitably to invite.

Children can make their own xylophones out of
wooden slabs knocked out of an ordinary soap-
box. By whittling the pieces, they will arrive at
definite pitch, the smaller and thinner pieces giv-
ing out the higher tones. Musical quality is nat—
urally attained only with careful workmanship
and specially selected wood, skillfully set over a
frame permitting freedom of vibration.

Musical Bottles and Boxes

Another musical-comedy device seen in vaude-
ville and primitive shows is a “bottle organ,” made
of glass bottles of various sizes—hence, producing
a variety of pitch—perhaps with a metal can or
two for the lowest notes. They are strung on a
frame, like the chimes of a symphony orchestra,
and produce at least an amusing effect of limited
melody. The bottle organ is obviously the poor 
relation or country cousin of the musical glasses.

Homemade banjos and other stringed instru-
ments are good fun and sometimes not at all bad
musically. A cigar box fitted with a neck of solid
wood has been the traditional basis of such music.
The strings can be of wire or gut, and even rub:
ber bands have been known to serve in a modest
way. The chief problem is to keep them in tune
for an adequate length of time, and this can be
accomplished by carefully whittled pegs. Bobby
Edwards used to accompany his original songs in
Greenwich Village with a homemade, cigar-box
ukulele, and it sounded fine.

Wind instruments of a sort also can be made at
home. Primitive musicians used conch shells and
the horns of cattle for blowing signals, although

. l

RECREATIONAL MUSIC 569

they must have been of indefinite pitch. (Sieg-
fried’s horn, in the opera, would be rather helpless
without the cooperation of the skilled horn player
in the orchestra.)

Youngsters living in the country generally
know how to secure a piercing blast of sound from
blades of grass held between the thumb muscles
of the two hands. This trick contains the basic
principle of single and double reeds, whose tone
is due to the vibration of cane surfaces, either by
direct contact with the breath, in a mouthpiece, or
clashing together in pairs, as in the oboe.

A more musical tone can be secured by cutting
a piece of cane or some other tubular wood, hol-
lowing it out, piercing it with one or more holes,
stopping one end, and perhaps inserting a cane
mouthpiece at the other. The immediate result is
a primitive whistle, but the whistle can be made
into an actual flute or basic clarinet by careful
workmanship in placing the holes and figuring out
the best length of tube.

Many kindergartens, schools, and camps now
make a feature of homemade musical instruments,
arguing that children will be the more inclined to
play upon the pipes, banjos, or percussion devices
that they have made themselves. ,

Finally, there is the Pan-pipe of mythology,
which can become a modern reality if one has the
patience to cut a series of whistles of different
lengths, building a scale from the longest to the
shortest, and binding or gluing them together in
the order of pitch. (It should be clear by this time
that small surfaces and short tubes or strings
produce higher tones than do large or long ones.
There we have in a nutshell the principles of pitch.
The interval of an octave above any given note
represents a vibrating surface or column of air
exactly half the size of that which produced the
original note. Thus a piccolo plays an exact octave
above the regular flute, and is exactly half its
length. A violin string is stopped exactly halfway
to produce the tone an octave above that of the
open string.)

The boy who puts together several pipes, in the
manner of the great god Pan, is on his way to the
building of an actual pipe organ. In fact, he could
easily make some actual organ pipes of wood, if
he were a good carpenter and had some instruction

from an expert. We used to buy at candy stores
the graduated series of Pan-pipes, made out of
licorice, and sometimes we could play on them
before letting them melt in our mouths.

Aside from the fun of making your own musi-
cal toys, where the process is really more impor-
tant than the result, there are only a few points
worth considering in the choice of things that play
and can be played with. Of all the category of
music boxes and mechanical music producers it is
necessary only to ask how early they can be in-
troduced into the life of a child. As long as their
music is not downright horrible, it will serve. Cer-
tainly, it is better at any time than idol worship
or war propaganda. For children who have little
talent and less power of application, the mechani-
cal music-maker is a godsend and can be used
right up to maturity, from a Mickey Mouse roller
through all the music boxes that require no more
than winding or cranking, to the final ideal of the
radio, the phonograph, and the electric player
piano, always with the assumption of a gradhally

deve10ping taste that will eventually select by
preference the records and the programs that rep-
resent music of a permanent value.

(Continued on page 588)

"The boy who puts together several pipes in
the manner of the great god Pan is on his
way to the building of an actual pipe organ"

 

Courtesy Work Projects Administration, New York City

Strengthen Your Financial Base!

N A MUNICIPALITY where
I ninety per cent of the

children are enrolled in
the public schools it is far
easier to run the local edu-
cational system than it would
be in a city where Only fifty
per cent of the children at-
tend public schools. The dif—
ficulty in the latter situation
is that half the people, prob-
ably the more acquisitive half,
regard public schools as a “hand-out” to the poor.
As every educator knows, such a condition is ex-
tremely difficult. Nobody is more solicitous con-
cerning public funds than the person who feels
that he and his get nothing personally out of: the
expenditure !

A parallel is found in public recreation. If the
program applies only to the underprivileged, the
task of obtaining necessary financial support is
fraught with dichulties that can be decidedly del
creased when it is so planned as to offer oppor-
tunities to those in higher income brackets.

A shining example is the outdoor skating pro~
gram provided in the city.of Newton, Massachu-
setts, under the plan worked out by Dean Ernest
Hermann of Sargent College of Physical Educa-
tion, a department of Boston University. Mr.
Hermann, when head of the Newton playgrounds,
provided for good skating on forty acres of ice.
The three areas are well cared
for by clearing away the snow,
smoothing the ice with a plane
to renew the sur-
face, and mending
cracks by filling
them with water in
freezing weather.
At night the areas
are lighted. At all
times order is main-
tained by good ad-
ministration, and a
checking system as-
sures skaters of safe
keeping for street
shoes and wraps.

570

By WILLIAM S. PACKER
Winchester. Massachusetts

A member of a park commission main-
taining a recreation program points out
the fact that there is greater financial
security for such a program when tax
funds are expended in a way which makes
it possible for every family in the com-
munityl regardless of social or financial
status. to enioy the benefits of the outlay.

For example. there are winter sports.
Some people enjoy skating and skiing
but others prefer less active forms!

 

Courtesy Department of Public Recreation, Reading, Pa.

In a normal winter there
is public skating in Newton
for from fifty to sixty days.
So general is the patronage
that thousands of skaters
may be counted on the ice
in the space of twenty-four
hours. Hundreds of well-to-
do citizens to whom the play-
grounds mean nothing at
other seasons of the year look
forward eagerly to the win-
ter skating. There is no doubt that the adequate
support given to the Newton playgrounds has as
one of its strongest bases the enthusiasm of skat-
ers personally grateful for what the frozen sur-
faces mean to them. i

In the town of Winchester, Massachusetts, ten-
nis has been developed on a quality as well as a
quantity basis, there being more tennis dubs and
more good players in Winchester than anywhere
around. During the late winter and early spring,
Saturday tennis classes for boys and girls are
conducted in the gymnasium under the guidance
of one of the playground commissioners. The
chief instructor is Miss Helen Boehm, the lead-
ing woman tennis professional in the East, who
teaches the tennis group at the Lake Placid Club.

Year after year, dozens of youngsters with ex-
cellent technique are developed in the classes. In

the New England ranking for 1938, twenty rat-
ings were given in the oldcr
and younger age groups for
girls. Nine of these places were

filled by Winchester
girls from the pub-

_public courts. On
the boys’ side, three
of the six singles
players of the Har-
vard freshman ten-
nis team in 1939
were Winchester
boys.

When the town

(Continued on
page 588)

lic schools and the I

-—-u. -s‘. __,

I620 Pilgrim Activities

AST SUMMER an interesting
L experiment was tried at
the Nature Guide School
at Pine Tree Camp, the na-
tional Girl'Scout training
school on Long Pond approxi-
mately nine miles from Plym-
outh Rock. Arrangements were
made at the Harlow House in
Plymouth for Miss Rose
Briggs and other members of
her staff to teach ten of the
Nature Guiders the complete
process of curing and spinning
Hax, carding wool. dyeing, and cooking in a brick
oven after the manner of the Pilgrims. Although
each leader will undoubtedly make a different use
of what she learned. the group enjoyed the experi-
ence immensely. The four meetings demonstrated
that the best education is recreation; that the most
complete experiences go back to mother earth and
the simple products therefrom, and the resulting
units of activity which evolve out of them. In
other words, the best nature recreation includes
many steps of culture.

Our Pilgrim Traditions

Many fine traditions have come down through
a long line of ancestry that goes back to the

'Pilgrims and their qualities of strength and

honesty. Reviving Pilgrim activities develops
a proud tie between generations. After spin-
ning or weaving one can look another in the
eye with pride and satisfaction. The essence
of the experiences at the school was to be
found in the outgrowths. Because of her en-
thusiasm, one 1939 Pilgrim maid was be-
queathed her grandmother’s spinning wheel.
Another leader was stimulated to write a Pil-
grim play for use in her Sunday school class.
A third found satisfaction
in preparing an illustrated
lecture on the geographical
setting of the Pilgrims.

"All these

earth, green plants, mois-
ture, sunshine, simple prod-

By WILLIAM G. VINAL
Director

Nature Guide School
Massachusetts State College

The pictures and the descriptions of
them which are presented through the
courtesy of Dr. Vinal tell their own
story and indicate the wealth of ma-
terial acquired by Girl Scout leaders
at the Nature Guide School at PineTree
Camp by a return to the crafts and
the customs of our Pilgrim ancestors.

put their trust in their
hands: and each becometh wise in his

. own work. Without these shall not a
There are sun to be found I city be inhabited and men shall not

soiourn nor wall: up and down there-
in."—From Ecclesiasticus 38:30-32.

l939

ucts, friends,
activity.

and joy in

Listening to Pilgrim
Stories

Reviving Pilgrim activities
is not all doing with the
hands. \Vhile the brick oven
was being heated at “Ye Old
Harlow House” for the pot-—
ful of beans, Pilgrim maid-
ens gained satisfaction in
wholesome fireside neigh-
borliness. Perhaps the most
popular dish prepared was pears baked in the
hot ashes of the fireplace. The pears were
washed, pricked, and placed in a creeper. To
one cup of sugar were added one cup of water
and sprigs of pungent lemon balm from the
Harlow House herb garden. For rye and “In-
j_un” bread the ingredients were mixed in a
nappy, and the kettle was then lined with red
oak leaves, shiny side up. After the mixture
was poured it was covered with oak leaves,
shiny side down.

The Indians taught the Pilgrims how to
make succotash, the Indian name for which

.was Mishkutotash. According to the recipe of

Mrs. Barnabas Churchill given out at the
Sparrow House, it included not only beans
and corn, but turnips, potatoes, salt pork,
corned beef, and chicken. These later ingredi-
ents must have been added by the white man.
The savory liquors from the meats make the
mixture most palatable.

\Vhat does being re-‘created mean? Brick
oven skills, social beings, or mental recreation?
The principles of self-doing, creative life en-
vironment, and esthetic folklore are deeply
rooted. The interest in growing flax, the feel
of making threads under the
guidance of the wheel by
mind and hand; the atmos-
phere of beauty created by
weaving—all these experi-
ences represent a new—old
adventure.

571

572 I620

Curing Flax

 

"Then after agriculture. the art of kingsI take the
next head of human arts, weaving. the art of
queens."-—From The Mystery of Life, by Ruskin.

Our experiment in Pilgrim activities was not so much
an attempt to turn out skilled craftsmen as it was to
provide the beginning of an interest that would widen and
grow with experience. Such intangible results are diffi-
cult to measure, but they must be in terms of joy, lasting
satisfaction, attitudes, and appreciation.

"Billie" Spins Outside Her Cabin Door

 

Leisure time or vacation need no longer be a vacancy
w 1th this naturalist. Overhead is a blue August sky; in
the background are the brilliant hollyhocks. Can you
guess what thoughts come to one while spinning? There
ir- a fascination in the rhythm of the spinning wheel, in
:4 i119: back to the simple life and forward to the liner
H‘ngs, as did the Pilgrims, with courage and ability to do
3:. - .d w: nrk. This answers a deep need. Without outlets for
'13; i Hui-age, ability, and satisfaction we are indeed poor.

 

PILGRIM ACTIVITIES I939

Ollie Takes Her Churn

 

The assumption that opportunity lies beyond the rain-
bow is false. This student leader has an awareness of
belonging to the group, has the satisfaction of 'being at
home in the universe, and appreciates the opportunity of
sharing the simple activities of the Pilgrims. She will
return to her Cleveland children with the assurance of a
new skill for an enriched curriculum, improved guidance,
and renewed faith in the deveIOpment of initiative and
leadership, all looking toward a fuller life.

How Good Are You at the Old Art of Carding?

Man power is measured in human values. Man is a F
creator, a social being. Man has personality; he seeks l
satisfactions in expression, and he lives in unity. 

The complete process involved in the carding of wool u
or spinning of flax and in the making of succotash meets i.
these human values. l

We do not want to lose what we have gained since l
Pilgrim days. Nor do we wish to lose sight of Pilgrim
virtues. u

I
I
l

Trends in Public Recreation

HERE ARE several well—de-

fined trends in recreation to

which some consideration
might be given. We might dis-
cuss the increasing willingness
of educational authorities
to plan school facilities in
terms of leisure time needs,
and their growing disposition to permit the use of
these facilities for recreation purposes. We might
discuss the tendency of art, music, homemaking,
vocational and physical education teachers to stress

i the enduring leisure-time aspects of their respective

offerings. We might even discuss the beginning
use of camps as an additional facility of the school.

But these movements and others all put to-
gether do not constitute the fundamental trend
that is slowly making its way into the thinking of
educational leadership. These movements within
the framework of organized education merely re—
flect the basic trend. They represent the gropings
of the educational profession toward realization
of the deep and fundamental needs they are
obligated to satisfy. Perhaps we can arrive at an
understanding of the message I want to bring to
you by reference to certain recent legislation that
is of significance both to schoolmen and to rec-
reation leaders.

On September 20, last, the California Com-
munity Recreation Enabling Act became effective.
This act authorizes any city, county or school dis-
trict within the state, either singly or jointly, to
organize recreation and (I quote) to “acquire,
improve, maintain and operate recreation centers
within or without the territorial limits of the
public authority.”

I cite this act because of the tremendous poten—
tial implications it carries for
the several million adults and
children of California. This
act illustrates, in perfected
form, the type of enabling
legislation now on the statute
books in a significant num—
ber of states. But what does
it mean? That question now
challenges municipal and
school authorities in Cali-
fornia and other states. More

As they are seen from
the viewpoint of the
public schools

By HERIOT CLIFTON HUTCHINS

Dr. Hutchins. Assistant Secretary. the
Educational Policies CommissionI gave
this address before the Society of Rec-
reation Workers of America on Octo-
ber the ninth. In his introductory re-
marks Dr. Hutchins said: I'l approach
this task as one without actual experi-
ence in recreation leadership but as a
worker in the field of public educa-
tion who has a deep and abiding con-
cern for the functional relationships be-
tween your tield of service and mine."

appropriately perhaps, our ques-
tion might be stated—What can
such enabling legislation mean
to the growing generation?

It would seem to me that the
authorities charged with or-
ganizing community recrea-
tion would need to find the

answers to two fundamental questions if they are
to render the type of leisure time service which
any community has a right to .expect. First—
What should recreation do to the individual? You
will note that I said—What should recreation do
to the individual? Second—How can we bring
about this change within the individual?

Before attempting to answer these questions,
let me point out that when we speak of bringing
about changes in people or in ways of living we
must necessarily think in terms of a, generation of
time; furthermore we must focus. our thinking
and action on young children primarily, following
them and succeeding generations of young chil-
dren all the way through their lives.

In response to the first of these questions my
answer would be just this: That recreation should
enable the individual to get what we now call
leisure-time values out of whatever he may do.
In other words, recreation should engender a phi-
losophy, or a point of view, which is so much a
part of a person’s habitual ways of thinking and
acting that he captures recreative values, in a
quiet natural manner, from his work as well as
his play.

The best example of this that I know of is the
man who “loves” his job—the person who can see
a challenge to reach beyond the immediate task
and find those values which We call re-creative.
It is more than mere variety
of assignment or the financial
motive that gives such a per-
son this enthusiasm and zest
for work. It is the point of
view with which he ap-
proaches the task set before
him.

I maintain that this man
gets just .as much pure rec-
reation out of the job that he
loves to do as he could get

573

574 TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION

from any program of leisure time activities that
you could map out for him. I maintain further
that this point of view—this attitude—this state
of mind can be learned and learned by the very
same methods that anything else is learned. The
person who loves his job because he gets from it
certain spiritual as well as material values need
not be the arccption. Any normal child under
the right sort of guidance can achieve the recrea-
tion point of view to such a degree that it be—
comes a rule of his life, if he is educated in that
direction from early childhood.

Not by any stretch of the imagination would I
want you to infer that what I say denies the need
for exercise or for diversion. An individual can-
not possibly gain all that life can give from work
alone, nor from the wages he gets for that work.
I do say, however, that the recreation point of
view is quite as much needed in order to get the
full benefits of exercise or to enjoy a diversion as
it is needed in order to get real leisure-time values
out of work. \Ve have set up programs of activi-
ties designed to give diversion and exercise, but
these programs have sometimes failed to take into
account the state of mind of the individual in ap-
proaching his exercise or amusement.

Unwillingly we have compartmentalized our
activities to such a degree that we say this is work,
this is learning. this is recreation. All that we
mean when we say “this is recreation” is that here
is the time when we can enjoy ourselves.

I would ask, then, is there any law of nature or
of man that prevents us from enjoying our work
and 0111‘ learning. Isn’t learning very often real
work? Isn’t the difference entirely in the state of
mind with which we approach our tasks?

The vital aspect of personality development is
what the psychologists like to call “achieving in—
dividuality” or “personal integration.” This in-
volves learning self—reliance, developing a philoso—
phy of life and the establishment of personal
values. Recreation now contributes to these ends.
But if we as educational and recreational workers
can help the child to gain this recreation point of
view, if we can engender within him those habits
of thinking which permit him to realize re-creatiVe
values from whatever he may be doing—then we
will have made a significant contribution to one
of the most difficult of educational problems,
namely, the fullest development of personality.

And now, my answer to the second question—
I'iruw can we bring about this change? How C2111

we develop this point of view in the individual—
taking him as we find him?

Manifestly this is an educational problem. It
is not a school problem alone, but it is one which
the school must help to solve and in a manner
quite different from that in which public school
authorities now approach recreation. It is not a
problem for recreation or park people to tackle
alone either, but they must play a large part,
using again a somewhat different emphasis from
that which now characterizes their efforts. Par-
ents too can make a significant contribution to
this educational task, and they will need to learn
how to help largely through the efforts of the
other two agencies.

This educational problem is one upon which the
attack must be made at all age levels simultan-
eously. When we desire to change the habits of a
people, the hrst steps are most logically taken with
young children, so that the change comes to affect
the whole population as succeeding generations of
young children grow Up. But an unsupported at-
tack at this level is not enough. Adult conser-
vatism is usually more than strong enOUgh to
overcome changes introduced at the childhood
level, unless these adults can be educated to the
change along with children. We must make OUr
major attack, therefore, at the early childhood
level, and follow it up with our approach to youth
and adults.

In planning the strategy, the matter of per—
sonnel looms up most prominently. Our prst task
is to find leaders for play centers, playgrounds
and community centers, and teachers of pre—
school, elementary school and adult education
grOUps particularly, who themselves have the
point of view of which I have been speaking.
Some teachers colleges are making a start in this
direction by helping prospective teachers round
out their personal development through emphasis
on personal recreation. The recreation profession
is likewise giving greater consideration to leaders
who have this recreation point of view, rather
than to those who are activity-minded. Some of
the more progressive schools are doing an excel—
lent job of educating parents to the important part
they play in the pre-school education of the child.

This matter of personnel seems to me to be of
primary significance because of the fact that chil-_.

ldren literally take over, in a ready-made fashion,

so many of their attitudes and habits of thinking 1
from the few persons with whom they are inti-

TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION . 575

mater in contact. Personnel, then, is our first
problem.

The second problem is that of setting up a pro—
gram through which the recreation point of view
can be established. In this effort we have an im-
portant psychological factor in our favor. By this
I mean the urge to creative expression which is
present in every child in some degree. This urge
to express oneself, to engage in creative activity,
seems to be a natural characteristic of the human
organism. All we need to do is to provide the
opportunity for this factor to operate.

In a few places this opportunity is now being
provided to children. In some cities there are
organized play centers for
pre—sch‘ool children estab-

The urge ’ro crea’rive expression is

give the child of less than five years of age the
recreation point of view, as such, these experi-
ences with nursery schools and play centers have
at least shown us that the foundation can be ef-
fectively laid by helping the child develop a sense
of values.

Another factor worth mentioning in this con-
nection is that nursery schools and play centers
devote a lot of emphasis to education of parents.
Through repeated consultation and observation
parents learn what their children are doing and
what results are becoming apparent.

A second type of program identified with
schools which tends to nurture the very values
that we are seeking is the ac-
tivity movement, generally

presen’r in every child ’ro some degree

 

lished for the purpose of giving these youngsters
a chance to play and to learn how to get along
with other children under the most desirable cir—
cumstances. A few school systems have estab—
lished nursery schools for children 2—5 years of
age. with much the same purposes in view. The
child becomes accustomed to simple habits of
work and play, with the play motive dominant.
He gets the rough edges of his egotism smoothed
down through the discipline imposed by his con-
temporaries. He learns about growing things—-
pets, trees, flowers—and the many other facets of
.his natural environment.

These experiences give the child, a sense of
values. They permit him to see his own place in
the scheme of things. \Vhile we cannot perhaps

-'
J

identified as “progressive education.” If we can dis-
count the extremists in progressive education and
look at their concept of learning through experi-
ences, we find a program which resembles very
closely what the recreation people have long been
doing. I mean simply the informal, guided activi-
ties, directed toward well-defined ends, as opposed
to the traditional curriculum found in so many
public schools. These informal guided activities,
whether carried on in progressive schools or in the
more f orward—looking traditional schools, are help-
ing to give children and youth that realization of
the re—creative values in work, play and learning
which we so greatly desire.

And again at the adult level, we find the urge

(Continued on page 589)

 

Cross-Country Running in County Parks

HE STAGING of a National

Interscholastic Cross

Country Meet at Warin-
anco Park, Roselle and Eliza-
beth, New Jersey, on Thanksgiving Day morning,
November 23, 1939, climaxed the increasing popu—
larity of areas in the Union County Park system
for this scholastic sport.

For a number of years the Park Commission
has encouraged the use of the park for cross-
country running. About four years ago it was
decided that the cross—country layout could be
greatly improved, and the Commission, in cooper—
ation with local high school track coaches, laid out
a course which followed, for two and one-half
miles, footpaths, a service road and lawn areas.
In the planning, advantage was taken of slopes
and straightaways.

The course is marked by a line laid down with
a dry lime marker. As further direction for the
runners red and white Hags are used. Runners
keep to the right of the red flags on the way out
and to the left of the white flags on the home
stretch.

Although the flags are posted only for special
cross-country meets, the white line, which is re-
newed when necessary, permits runners to prac-
tice over the actual championship course from the
first week in October until the close of the cross-
country season.

576

By P. S. MATHEWSON

Superintendent of Recreation
Union County, N. J.l Park Commission

Two features of the Wa-
rinanco Park course have
proved especially popular:
first, the fact that almost the
entire race may be viewed from the top deck of
the stadium at the northwest end of the park; the
provision made for a system of chutes to handle
the finish of each race with no danger of mistakes
as to order in which competitors finish, after each
runner completes a lap around the quarter-mile
running track.

Anyone familiar with the scoring system used
in cross-country running realizes how important it
is to keep the the runners in line, in the order
they finished, until all have been properly listed;
and, at the same time, the difficulty of keeping
such a record in a meet in which two hundred
runners may compete can be readily appreciated.

Besides the National Meet held at Warinanco
Park this year with 190 entries, a New Jersey
State Interscholastic Meet with close to 250 en-
tries, two Union County events, and nearly
twenty dual school meets were held over this
course. Runners from two local public and one
parochial high school visited the course almost
daily for practice running.

In two other county parks cross-country run—
ning was also sponsored by cooperating with the
local school authorities.

(Continued on page 590)

..

WORLD AT PLAY

The Hamburg Pup-
pet Guild, 92 Haw-
kins Avenue, Ham-
burg, New York, is
conducting a Traveling Puppet Course devised
for teachers, social workers, and recreation
leaders. The course covers not only workshop
technique, the making and operating of marion-
ettes, but the method by which puppetry may
be fitted into the recreation leader’s field.
Practical experience is offered in the rudiments
of puppet play production. Among the courses
offered the most comprehensive is one lasting
a week with from two to three hour periods.
Shorter courses, however, are offered. Further
information may be secured from Miss Siloma
Andrew of the Hamburg Puppet Guild.

Courses in
Puppetry

\Vith a more conven—
ient spacing of
centers and the use

of elementary schools
as recreation centers, Detroit, Michigan, is in—

augurating a broad fall and winter recreation
program. The city has been divided into one-
mile circles with a
center in the middle
of each, so that no
one will need to
travel more than half
a mile to a center.
Seven department-
owned centers will
be augmented by six—
teen intermediate
and thirty-two ele-
mentary - school
centers; additional
classes will be con—

ducted in five libra—
ries, twenty-th ree
church houses, live
settlement houses,
three orphanages, two
hospitals, and three
miscellaneous insti-
tutions. In these
ninety-six centers,

Detroit’s Winter
Activities

N "" ""

 

emphasis will be placed on cultural craft work
and social activities, without curtailing the
physical program. There will be music appre-
ciation concerts, dramatic clubs, community
singing, glee clubs, modern and old—time danc-
ing, and hobby clubs. Instruction in sewing,
handicraft, sketching, woodcraft, metalcraft,
model airplane and boat construction, swim-
ming, diving, life saving, and tap dancing will
be included as well.

Four hundred and
seventy-three photo-
graphs were submit-
ted in the amateur
photo contest sponsored by the Department of
Parks of New York City. The entrants were
divided into three age groups as follows: (a)
children up to fourteen years of age; (b)
children between fifteen and eighteen years of
age; and (c) those over eighteen years old.
Each competitor was permitted to submit as
many pictures as he desired provided all the
photographs were taken during 1939 and de-
picted youth or age in the parks, pools,

New York’s Amateur
Photo Contest

577

578 WORLD AT PLAY

beaches, or playgrounds under the jurisdiction
of the Department of Parks. All the photo-
graphs submitted were on display at the
American Museum of Natural History in con-
nection with the department’s handcraft ex-
hibit held in November. The photograph
shown here under the caption “Time Out for

H H

Repairs” won first place in the c group.

Model Aircraft Building—Recreation depart-
ments are increasingly taking steps not only
to promote interest in aviation, but to dis-
seminate scientific knowledge and teach the
principles of aeronautics. The Department of
Public Instruction at South Bend, Indiana, in
its last annual report tells of the organization
of an Aero Club which has been building
model planes in order to study their per-
formance in flight. Included in the program of
the club is a course in fiying instruction, and
in the theory of flight and engine combustion.

The Playground Commission of Aurora,
Illinois, has established a Ground Aviation
School which has a plane and six engines and
all the necessary equipment. When the course
opened, 225 had enrolled, and a great deal of
interest is being developed in the school.

The Fifth Annual Camp Pow-Wow—The
fifth annual Camp Pow-VVow will be held at
the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York City, Feb—
ruary I4, 15, and 16, 1940. As in the past, the
1940 Pow-\Vow will serve as a means of giv-
ing practical information to camp directors and
camp leaders. It will have no set formula for
method or topic, and the program will be based
on the requests and suggestions of the mem—
bers. Recreation workers are invited to send
practical suggestions to Mr. L. Noel Booth,
Executive Director, The Camp Pow-\Vow, in

care of Camping l/Vorld, II East 44th Street,
New York City.

Ohio P. T. A. Congress—The 34th Annual
Ohio Congress of Parent Teachers went into ses-
sion in October in the city of Columbus, Ohio,
with a series of activities, meetings, and discus—
sions. This Congress featured a panel on “Modern
Youth versus Old-Fashioned Parents” (par-
ticipated in by four senior high school girls
of the city), displays of P.T.A. scrapbooks,
and play sessions, in addition to serious dis-
cussions of P.T.A. problems.

Hershey, Pennsylvania, as a Recreation
Area———Hershey, Pennsylvania, the home of
Hershey chocolate and cocoa products, is now
a year-round public resort and recreation
center as well as a “chocolate town.” Hershey
Park of 1,000 acres contains the largest private
zoo in the United States, according to the
October 20th issue of “Travel and Recreation”
issued by the United States Travel Bureau,
and includes the Hershey museum, a series of
outdoor swimming pools, picnic grounds, and
a sports arena seating 7,200 for hockey games,
ice carnivals, roller skating, circuses, basket-
ball, and other sports. From November to
March hockey games draw an average of
7,000 persons nightly, and many thousands at-
tend the frequent ice carnivals, shows, rodeos,
and college football games. Horseback riding
is also a favorite sport. Hershey has four
excellent golf courses and its rose garden,
opened in 1937, has more than 20,000 plants of

over 400 varieties.

Juvenile Collectors—An exhibit of scientific
collections was arranged by the Recreation
Building on Treasure Island at the San Fran-
cisco VVorld’s Fair so that children who
collect specimens might have an opportunity
to display them. Small exhibits prepared by
boys or girls with genuine interest in the sub-
ject were just as acceptable as elaborate ones.
The four types exhibited were: miniature
gardens; leaf prints and flower collections;
rocks, minerals, and shell collections; collec-
tions of insects, reptiles, and rodents. From
The Junior Naturalist, San Francisco Recrea-
tion Department.

Courses in Dramatics, Music and Folk Danc-
ing Announced—From 7 :30 until 9 :30 on Mon-
day and Thursday evenings during the month
of February, 1940, courses in dramatics, music,
and folk dancing will be given at the Man-
hattan Girl Scouts’ headquarters, 670 Lexing-
ton Avenue, New York City, under the spon—
sorship of Girl Scouts, Inc., Region 2, the
National Board of the Y.W.C.A., and the
Girls’ Friendly Society of the U.S.A. Mr. A.
D. Zanzig of the National Recreation Associa-
tion will be associated with the group. Drama—
tics will include impromptu dramatics, play
making, pantomime, dramatized ballads, choral

WORLD AT PLAY 579

speech, radioitechnique, the approach to the
formal play, and selection of material. In the
music course topics will cover fundamentals
of song leading, the learning of a number of
songs for various group occasions, the use of

source material, the informal approach to part '

singing, the correlation of music with drama—
tics, and introduction to music appreciation.
The folk dancing course will offer singing and
play party games, folk dances from many
nations, and practice in their direction. Sub—
jects will be presented informally, and stu—
dents will have opportunity for practical
experience in each field.

Safe Riding—A bicycle safety campaign in
Norwich, Connecticut, last summer won the
active support of city police, Boy Scout
leaders, newspapers, and officials of the Lions
Clubs which sponsored the drive. More than
250 applications for registration were received,
and inspections were conducted at all city
playgrounds. Each boy received printed in—
structions telling him how to keep his bike
in a safe condition by regular attention. Regis-
tration included a full description of the
bicycle and owner, and a pledge to observe all
safety rules. From The Lion.

The Fee Question at Public Parks—Should
officials charge fees for the use of conveniences
furnished to the public in park recreational areas?
Some feel that privileges should be partially
paid by those using the parks; these funds
should then be used for improvements. Others
feel that conveniences should be free, that the
expense of their administration should be
borne by the taxpayers. The National Park
Service recently completed a nation-wide sur—
vey which reveals that the income from fees
and charges represents only nine per cent of
the total funds available for park expenditures.
In some instances, charges are regarded as a
necessary means of control of certain facilities
and services. Many park administrators hold
that these areas should be without charge with
the possible exception of fees for accommoda—
tion and facilities such as dressing rooms at

bathing beaches.

The Community Players of Houston—A new
Venture in Houston, Texas, last summer was

    
 
  
  
   
  
   
    
  

  

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DHTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND

line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

° Stake Holders ° Carrying Cases
0 Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

a series of six plays presented during a six
weeks’ period by the Community Players in
the air—conditioned lounge of the Lamar Hotel.
The lounge, the use of Which was given by the
hotel, can accommodate a hundred spectators.
Miss Margo Jones, director of the Community
Players for the past few years, was in charge.
A large part of the audience was made up of
hotel guests who paid an admission charge of
one dollar. A similar project will be under—
taken during the coming year in addition to the
regular performances given by the group at
the Recreation Department’s playhouse.

A New Periodical—The New York City
Civil Service Commission announces the pub—
lication of a new periodical, the Public Person—
nel Quarterly, which will contain original
articles concerned with practical phases of
public personnel administration and will also
present digests of significant books, mono-
graphs. and journal and magazine articles.
Further information may be secured from
Norman J. Powell, Civil Service Commission,
299 Broadway, New York City.

580 WORLD AT PLA Y

Recreational Travel in the United States—
Tourist travel to all the units of the Federal
park system in the travel year ended Septem-
ber 30, 1939, amounted to fifteen and a half
million persons, according to the October 20th
issue of “Travel and Recreation,” issued by
the United States Travel Bureau. Travel to
the 25 national parks accounted for 6,804,216
of the traveling total, an increase of nearly a
quarter of a million persons, or 3% per cent
over the 1938 figures. Travel to the 63 na—
tional monuments of the system which made
a report also increased from 2,313,630 in 1938
to 2,566,452 in 1939, while it declined to
national historical parks, battlefield sites, na—
tional military parks, and miscellaneous areas.
Travel to the Boulder Dam national recrea—
tional area in Nevada and Arizona increased
from 564,800 to 611,895.

The East has only three of the nation’s
twenty—five great scenic national parks—
Acadia in Maine, Shenandoah in Virginia,
and the Great Smokies in North Carolina and
Tennessee. Nevertheless the East led the
\Vest in national park and monument travel

Subscribe Now . . .

in 1939. Travel totals show 8,701,759 visitors
to 44 parks, monuments, historic sites and
other units in the East, as against 6,752,608 to
75 western areas.

Intramurals—To correlate the work of the
Physical Education and the Recreation De-
partments, and to give an opportunity to many
children to enjoy class or team competition in
sports and games, an intramural program is
planned for thirty-five schools in one city. Mass
participation, interesting the timid children and
the ones not skillful enough to be selected on the
various school, class or neighborhood teams,
are some of the main objectives.

Cultural Centers for Rural England—The
School Government Chronicle and Education
Review, London, England, commenting edi-
torially on the development of cultural centers
in rural areas, says: “The suggestion that the
senior school in rural areas should become a
cultural center for the countryside was ad-
vanced by Mr. Kenneth Lindsay when he
said: ‘Today we must begin to think not only

Don’t MISS a Single Issue - - - JUNIOR HRTS and HCTIUITIES

THE ONLY MONTHLY TEACHER'S MAGAZINE containing so much actual creative project material, activi-
ties and ideas for integrated classwork in the elementary grades! Now ranks among the best liked, most
useful and helpful magazines published in the interest of the teacher and pupil.

BRIMFUL OF MATERIAL TO HELP YOU IN YOUR WORK. JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES makes your work

easier, y0ur pupils happier and their work more interesting. Intensely practical! Unequaled in amount of

ifilsablelproject material in each issue. Created through collaboration of teachers and supervisors on the
ring me.

NEW_ . . .. UP-TO_-DATE . . . RELIABLE . . . USABLE . . . Every issue is brimful of full page (9 in.x12 in.)
draWIllgS, Instructions and ideas for all types of required work. No teacher can afford to be without this

educational material to correlate with regular class studies. An essential to successful and happy teach-
ing. Teachers say, “It’s an inspiration.”

I0 THRILLING ISSUES CONTAINING MATERIAL
THAT MEETS YOUR NEEDS

In dutries
History
Geography
Seatwork

Creative Art
Decorations, Crafts
Social Studies

Units, Activities
Pictorial Maps
Health & Safety

Dioramas, Posters Constructive Work
Foreign Countries Book Reviews

Practical Suggestions, Ideas and Articles by Teachers

10 BIG NUMBERS only $2

JUNIOR HRTS 6ND HCTIUITIES

740 Rush Street

Chicago, Illinois

 

FOR YOUR ARTS AND CRAFTS PROGRAM 581

in terms of the village with its school, church,
and “pub,” but also in terms of new local areas
represented by groups of villages. But there
must be living contacts between the country-
man and the area school. We must reinterpret
local conditions without sacrificing local loyal-
ties. The coming of the senior school in the
countryside, with adequate gardens, work—
shops, and domestic science rooms, is creating
a new rural unit. In some counties it has al—-
ready become the cultural center for a new
area of the countryside. Properly conceived
and staffed, its effect is to retain the best of
the past and help rebuild Merrie England.’ ”

Michigan’s New Recreation Area—South-
eastern Michigan, through the development of
the Huron-Clinton Parkway Project, will have
one of the largest recreation systems in the
world when the project becomes a reality, ac—
cording to the Ann Arbor News. Skirted by a
scenic parkway, following the Huron and
Clinton Rivers for eighty miles, the recreation
area will compose approximately 40,000 acres
of park land. Bathing beaches and youth
hostels, superhighways and bridle paths, public
picnic grounds and private cottages, nature
museums and wild life sanctuaries will all be
included in this recreation system. A number
of cities are now beginning to take the neces-
sary steps to prevent pollution in the Huron
River, and in addition a number of cities have
acquired river front park sites.

Recreation Facilities in Tennessee—In the
brief period of five years, thousands of acres
of land unsuitable for agriculture have been
purchased and developed for recreational use.
The mountains, rivers, forests, valleys, climate,
and scenery that have been Tennessee’s for
many years are now appearing in a new light;
they are being madeto serve better the people
of Tennessee. Until recent years little thought
had been given to the immense resources that
were lying dormant in Tennessee—From
statement by Tennessee State Planning Com—
mission.

Child Labor Day——1940—-—Child Labor Day
will be observed on January 27-29, 1940. The
National Child Labor Committee urges that
there be no relaxation of effort to rally public
sentiment against the exploitation of children.

For Your
Arts and Crafts Program

BECAUSE of the keen interest -in'handcraft as a
part of the recreation program we are listing

some of the free and inexpensive material now
available.

- A Guide in Arts and Crafts

An opportunity to secure an exceedingly prac-
tical and helpful mimeographed booklet of almost
a hundred pages has been made possible through
the courtesy of Recreation Project, Work Proj-
ects Administration for the City of New York.
This booklet, A Guide in Arts and Crafts, pre—
pared by Marguerite Ickis, author of Nature in
Recreation, is profusely illustrated and contains
three sections. The first deals with Tools for the
Craft Room and here Miss Ickis suggests the
absolutely essential tools for groups of sixteen
and the crafts which may be undertaken with
these tools. In Section II she discusses Intro—
ductory Crafts—Low Cost Articles, and in Sec-
tion III, Advanced Craft Projects. Many dia-
grams and illustrations are used.

As long as the supply lasts individuals con-
nected with recreational groups may secure a copy
free on request by writing the Recreation Project
of WPA at 107 Washington Street, New York
City. In requesting copies it is important for in-
dividuals to specify their connection with recrea-
tional agencies.

Inexpensive Bulletins

The following inexpensive bulletins are available
from the National Recreation Association:

Arts and Crafts Book List . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$.10
Arts and Crafts Material . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15
Clay Modeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10
Craft Projects That Can Be Made with Inexpensive
and Discarded Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15
Cylinder \Veaving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Directions for Making an Etched German Silver

Bracelet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10
A Folding Table for Table Tennis with Directions
for Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10

Fun-to-Make Favors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15

How to Make and Play a Shepherd Pipe . . . . . . . . . . . .35

How to Make Marionettes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .20

An Indian Bonnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15

Inexpensive Puppets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10

Make Your Own Christmas Tree Ornaments . . . . . .. .10
Manufacturers and Distributors of Craft Supplies
and Equipment (Partial Listing) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10
An Outline Guide in Arts and Crafts Activities at
Different Age Levels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10
Shadow Puppets—~Their Construction, Operation
and Stage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10
Weaving with Simple Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

582 THE DOVER COMMUNITY SCHOOL

The Committee states that while the child
labor provisions of the Federal \V ages and Hours
Act are excellent, they apply only to industries
shipping goods across state lines and they can-
not reach more than a small fraction of the
children who were at work before the act went
into effect. It is estimated that fully 500,000
child workers under sixteen years of age are
still at work in intrastate industries and in in-
dustrialized agriculture.

Suggested programs for the observance of
Child Labor Day may be secured from the
National Child Labor Committee, 419 Fourth
Avenue, New York City. The Committee will
be glad to assist any group in planning a Child
Labor program.

A Play Center Restored—Through the co—
operation of the Hermes Club, which raised
the necessary funds by sponsoring a theater
attraction last winter, the McLaren Play—
ground in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, was
put into operation again last summer. Mem—
bers of the club and the executive of the
Playground and Recreation Commission, J. J.
Syme, took part in the ceremonies held at the
reopening of the ground.

Nevada City Initiates a Recreation Program
——-Nevada City, California, is a community of
about 3,000 people whose chief occupation is
mining. In April of this year a coordinating
council was organized to take action regarding
the juvenile delinquency problem which was
becoming urgent. It was suggested that a
recreation program be organized for the sum—
mer, and steps were taken immediately to do
this. A full-time director was appointed who
had at his disposal for the program a swim-
ming pool, a softball diamond, a tennis court,
and a community center. Among the program
activities which he conducted were a weekly
bonfire, a twilight softball league, swimming
meets and swimming instruction, tourna—
ments, boys’ clubs, handicraft, nature study,
social dancing, and dance instruction.

Film Strips Available—The Extension Serv-
ice of the United States Department of Agri-
culture, Washington, D. C., announces the
availability of 325 series of film strips on such
subjects as soil conservation, farm forestry,

home economics, adult and junior extension
work, and rural electrification. The prices for
these film strips until June 30, 1940 will range
from 50 to 70 cents each. Lecture notes are
provided for each strip except for those which
are self-explanatory. Further information may
be secured from the Department of Agri—

culture.

The Dover Community School
(Continued from page 539)

with the social and recreational activities of the
social room.

Other Facilities

In the high school building are provided the
shops and laboratories for carpentry, auto-me—
chanics, agriculture, and home economics. Here
adults may expand their hobbies or secure solu-
tions for many of their economic problems. A
visual education room makes provision for the
movies. A large library has been planned for
community as well as pupil use. The broadcasting
of school and community affairs to any of the
networks has been planned, and this community
school feels that it will serve an additional func-
tion as it broadcasts the public relations’ work of
the various departments of the state government.
The girls’ gymnasium included in this building
has already been used for exhibits and is available
for the use of women as well as the girls of the
school.

In the elementary school building classrooms
have been arranged with library alcoves and ac- f
tivity spaces. A large game and special activities .-
room, with a platform, has also been included in :_
this building. ‘

The site lies adjacent to St. Jones’ River. Down 1
among the trees along the river an open-air thea- I
ter has been planned. Flower gardens and a fish ,
hatchery will offer enrichment to the curriculum 1
as well as opportunity for hobbies. Tennis courts
and an athletic field provide for organized play
and a large area to the east of the elementary
school has been especially reserved for play pur-
poses for the elementary school.

Dover’s investment in this community school
was approximately $250,000. A PVVA grant of
$200,000 supplemented this amount. Under the
leadership of Superintendent E. Hall Downes,

RECREATION AND THE NATIONAL MORALE 583

l’resident Howard E. Lynch, Jr., and the other
members of the Board of Education, Dover’s
community school may be expected to contribute
significantly to fine democratic living.

Recreation and the National Morale
( Continued from page 546)

Recreational facilities and opportunities for so-
cial recreation are the outstanding need of rural
America. Goo'd roads, the automobile, rural elec—
trification and the radio have done much to break
down the physical isolation of rural populations.
Social isolation is still the normal rather than the
exceptional situation for most communities.

Development of programs for the use of the
rural and consolidated schools as community cen-
ters are therefore of prime importance, and should
be in a prominent place on any Federal or State
program.

Although the Federal Security Agency itself
does not have primary responsibility for recrea-
tion activities in the Federal Government, all of
the units of the Agency have a real stake in the
pattern of a national recreation program, both
historically in terms of work done and in the
future in terms of interest and possibilities for
help. The NYA and the CCC have already played
a large part in improving and extending our na-
tional parks and forests. The office of Educa-
tion and the Public Health Service have helped in
furnishing educational material to leisure time
classes. The program administered by the Social
Security Board gives increasing testimony for the
need for more constructive attention to recreation
programs for those groups of our population
which it serves, especially the old people and the
handicapped. Cooperation between welfare agen—
cies and recreational agencies on the State and
local levels offers a fine field for joint planning.

The provision of opportunity for the creative
use of leisure time is certainly a matter of public
interest and concern. The Federal, State and local
administrations have rightfully assumed some re-
sponsibility for the provision of recreational op-
portunities. Recreation is of as much public con-
cern as education. The Federal Government has
its sphere of responsibility. .In providing assist-
ance for equalizing opportunity in setting aside
park areas, it performs functions which cannot be
. borne by other levels of government. The prob-
' lem created by the increase of leisure time, how-
. ever, is great enough so that the Government
' should not attempt to solve the problem alone.

The 1939

College Blue Book

Since 1923

The Standard Reference Work
of Higher Education

700 Pages—Increase of Over 100

It brings to you for instant re f-
erence the basic facts, ratings,

entrance, fees, resources

Used constantly by College and School of-

ficials, by Guidance Committees and by Lead-
ing Libraries.

Covers 652 Colleges and Universities

563 Junior and 119 Negro Colleges
Also 2,613 Professional Schools of Aero-

nautics, Agriculture, Architecture, Commerce,
Dentistry, Education, Engineering, Forestry,
Journalism, Law, lerary Science, Medicine,

Nursing, Osteopathy, Optometry, Pharmacy,
Social Work, Theology, and Schools of
Technology.

567 Universities Around the World

Full page color State Maps in
Educational Atlas

Price $4. 75
0

Address the Editor

Dr. H. W. HURT
404 Riverside Drive New York City

 

584

A “TONIC” FOR THE CRAFT SHOP

CHARACTER
AND CITIZENSHIP

brings each month to its readers a story
of what community organizations, insti-
tutions, and agencies are doing — or

not doing —-
To lay the foundation for good citizenship

To build good character

To develop personality
To solve community problems
To safeguard democratic institutions

To improve family life
To promote recreation and good health
To encourage cooperative activities

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship. It is

of particular value to:

School and Church Leaders
Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and

Directors
Boy and Girl Scout Executives
Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities

Directors of Recreation

Dr. Francis L. Bacon, Principal of the Evanston,
Illinois, Township High School says. "The current
issue of your magazine, CHARACTER_ and
CITIZENSHIP, came to my desk this week. I
carried it home and pleasantly, I believe profit-
ably, too, spent an evening reading the entire
contents.

"Permit me to express my appreciation of the
increasing value of this unique periodical. I could
ardently wish that every school library possess
one or more subscriptions. It would seem, too, that
civics and guidance teachers might well utilize
the magazine as reference material for students.

"The overview which your periodical gives to
the work of the various social agencies and the
emphasis afforded to the desirable coordination
of school and community social agencies consti-

tute a superior service. More power to your
efforts!”

Send your order to

Character and Citizenship

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

’----.----------

4'
0 Please record my name as a sub-

scriber to CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
SHIP as checked below.

C] One year subscription at $2.00

NAME ............................................................................ "

ADDRESS ........................................................................ ..

CITY .......................................... .. STATE .................... ..
Nat. Rec.

 

There is enough work for everyone to do and no
reason why Government agencies, semi-public
agencies, and private agencies cannot cooperate
through sensible community organization methods
to meet the problem.

The morale, spirit and happiness of all people
is a matter of great moment to our Nation. Pub-
lic federal administrators believe and work with
local officials in keeping the play of children and
the leisure of our people in harmony with the
democratic ideal. We also believe that adequate
programs of play and recreation can do much in
themselves to strengthen and to advance the
American Nation. We need to handle all our
problems with courageous wisdom to the end that
Democracy will survive, and it will, if the people
of our country can participate in and enjoy the
fruits of a democratic way of life. Recreation can
do its share in making this possible.

A "Tonic" for the Craft Shop

(Continued from page 548)

heavy carpet warp. This makes a shaggy tuft, and
when the tufts are sewed onto the canvas one inch
apart; the final effect produces an attractive
“furry” rug. The chenille may be purchased in
a variety of colors.

A new phase of woodcraft just being intro—
duced is the designing on wooden plates, trays,
cups and saucers and the like by wood burning.
Then the lines of the design are painted and the
article finally shellaced. This craft is much in
favor and makes it possible to own dishes dis-
tinctly your own.

With the advent of Spring, children’s crafts will
turn again to kites and bird houses. Just now
puppets and marionettes made of papier-mache
are the main attraction. Every other Saturday the;
youngsters enrolled in these classes entertain withl
a free puppet show at the public library. Other:
favorite children’s crafts are dog baskets, doll;
beds and fruit baskets made from raflia and reed ;I
finger painting; and original poster designs. 

Metal tapping, too, is a craft that fills many
requirements for children. The projects are prac—
tical and economicaland the process so simple that
it can be mastered by any boy or girl. The young-
sters enrolled in our craft classes have made
plaques, book ends, shields, letter holders, broom
holders, tie racks, door stops, wall shelves, magan
zine stands and hostess trays.

Another project which we introduced for chil-

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 585

dren but which adults have found contagious is
the making of wooden soled shoes. The soles are
cut from white bass wood sawed out the shape of
your foot. The tops are made of two strips of

2%” webbing with rust proof fasteners. The '

soles are carved or painted. or both, and the strap
decorated with modem or Mexican designs.
Others are made with calf skin uppers which are
tooled, painted or decorated with cutout work.

New ideas to tone up your craft shop are un-
limited. These are but a few suggestions which
may be old to you. But we believe that most of
the honorable and ancient old crafts, which are
lately experiencing a renascence in interest, are
here to stay, if we but offer them to the com-
munity in interesting and attractive ways.

Ultra Modern Recreation in a

Small Community
(Continued from page 552)

Swimming Pools

Two new swimming pools have just been com-
pleted. These two pools. one for the Mexicans
and one for the Negroes, have been constructed
exactly alike and placed in appropriate locations
to serve their respective purposes. The pools, 40’
by 60’ and sloping to a 9 foot depth, are lighted
for night use, and each is surrounded by a cyclone

fence. Each pool has a bathhouse with open air

dressing rooms. In the bathhouse proper there is
ample storage space besides the ticket office and
basket room. Each dressing room is equipped
with dressing booths. showers, and a rest room.
Negro and Mexican employees will be used at the
respective pools which will be under the super-
vision of the Recreation Department.

Seguin moves forward in her conviction that
year-round recreation in the small town is not
only practicable, but is fast becoming a necessary
part of any progressive community.

Recreation for Children in a Democracy
(Continued from page 556)
Corps, Public Works Administration, the Farm

Security Administration. and the United States
Housing Authority.

Few people really comprehend the full effect of
these programs on the leisure and recreation of
the population. Even the one fact that children
under the age of 16 participated in 9,263,506
hours of play and recreational activities super-
vised by W'PA leaders during one week in Febru-
ary 1939 fails to register all of its ramilications.

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles )
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

         

MAGAZINES

Character and Citizenship, October 1939

- “A Guide to Vocational Reading” edited by Tracy
W. Redding. A list of books covering important
occupations, their background, techniques and
leaders.

Child Study, Fall 1939
“Books of the Year for Children”
A list selected by the Children’s Book Committee

of-the Child Study Association and arranged on
an age grouping.

Health and Physical Education, October 1939
“Physical Education in Poland” by Howard W. Stepp
“Dance as a Coeducational Activity” by Anne Schley
Duggan, Ph.D.
“Educational Dancing” by Louis H. Chalif
“Progressive Games of Soccer Variety” by Helen

M anl ey

Journal of Adult Education, October 1939
“A Discussion Group—Average Age 75” by George
Lawton

Scholastic Coach, October 1939
“Sound Equipment for Field and Gym” by O. V.

Swisher
“Seven-Team League Master Schedule” by W. B.

Marquard. Factual outline of the construction of
a round-robin schedule for a seven-team league to
assure maximum participation.

National Municipal Review, September 1939
“Low-Rent Housing Builds on Sound Money” by

Leon H. Keyserling

Beach and Pool, September 1939
“How to Prepare a Pool Appraisal” by C. M. Roos,
Engineer, Supt. of the Cairo (Illinois) \Vater

Company

PAM PH LETS

Through the Arnold Arboretum
Published by the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard

University

Hikes in Berks—American Guide Series
Compiled by the Berks County Unit, Federal VVrit-
ers’ Project of the Works Progress Administra-
tion for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

1938 Yearbook, Park and Recreation Progress, United
States Department of the Interior, National Park
Service

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C..
price $.35

I939 Playground Alanual
City of Toledo, Department of Public Welfare,

Division of Recreation

Recreation Round Table, June 1939
Division of Recreation, VVPA, Los Angeles, Cali-

fornia

Educational Policies for Rural America, July 1939
Educational Policies Commission, 1201 Sixteenth

Street N.W., Washington, D. C.

Legislation Affecting Community Recreation in California
Compiled by Works Progress Administration North—
ern California, October 1, 1938

586 RECREATION FOR CHILDREN IN A DEMOCRACY

 
   
  

Subscription
Price

$2.00

   

 .Se hoof Jietiuit tel;

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life

situations typical of the American way of living -
and working together.

 
 
   

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING CO.

Two general questions seem to puzzle many peo-
ple. The first is one of great uncertainty about the
future—How can we do the job we are supposed
to do without some federal assistance? The other
feeling is one of great perplexity—Why must we
local residents be subject to the ups and downs
and arounds of “Washington?” Of one thing we
can be sure. Uncertain and perplexed feelings
must be faced and dealt with squarely and real-
istically. The answers cannot come from opti-
mism or pessimism or by a simple yes or no. Part
of our difficulty lies in the fact that but a handful
of people have given much detailed thought to
exactly what a national recreation program for
children in a democracy involves.

Questions Before the Conference
The questions which will confront members of
the Conference on Children in a Democracy arise
from facts such as these, from the interpretation
of these facts, and from the desire on the part of
our nation to develol) a play and recreation pro-
gram as an integral part of the democratic way of

life. Stated as simply as possible, the questions
are somewhat as follows:

1515 LANE STREET - -

TOPEKA, KANSAS

I. What do we need to do to make play and
recreation opportunities available to all children
and their families? This includes Pat who lives
in Burnett County, Wisconsin, Jerry who lives in
Americus, Georgia, and Mike who shells pecans
in Texas.

2. \Vhat reSponsibility does our local govern—
ment, our state government and our national gov-
ernment have in this field? Are the County Com—
missioners right when they say that play is fine
for city children, but rural children don’t need it?
Can the Mayor close the schools and the play-
grounds just by declaring that there are no funds
for them? ' I

3. What can the private agencies do and how
can everyone help them do it?

4. What can be done to help children develop
discrimination in their choice of movies; books,
magazines and radio programs. Are Orphan
Annie and Fred Allen the only alternatives?

5. W’ hat needs to be done to improve the quality
of recreation and play leaders? Should we be
content with the fact that because Mr. Bond is a
fine healthy chap and knows how to play football

AN ANNUAL WINTER FROLIC 587

he is just the man to be playground director? Can
we expect to employ leaders with college educa-
tion' and experience in recreation and group work
for fifty or seventy-five dollars a month? It is
questions such as these that come before the Con-
ference on Children in a Democracy.

Education Moves Out—Recreation

Moves In
(Continued from page 563)
abandoned grade school buildings are being used

to advantage. The National Youth Administra-
tion was urged by the Board of Recreation to
open a craft shOp in an unused school building
for the purpose of making recreation equipment
to be used by the Board. In this case the National
Youth Administration appealed directly to the
Board of Education for permission to use the
building, and the appeal was granted on the basis
that the National Youth Administration would
pay an annual rental fee of one dollar and the
necessary coal and light bills.

This outmoded school plant is now the scene
of buzzing machinery with unemployed youth
making handicraft and table tennis tables, game
tables and stools, bicycle racks, bulletin boards and
box hockey boxes, paddle and table tennis pad-
dles and many other utilitarian articles. Lumber
and hardware is supplied by the Board of Recre-
ation, and the articles are used on the playgrounds
and in the recreation centers.

Sharing Facilities

In another grade school building where only
five rooms are used for school purposes, the re-
maining three rooms are open five nights a week
for recreational activities. In this particular
neighborhood school building there has been a de—
crease in the school enrollment, consequently, not
all rooms are in use during the day. The neigh-
borhood Parents’ I’layground Association visual—
ized the need for a center useful at night, and
urged the Board of Education to open the place.
The Board of Education supplies the light, heat
and janitor service, while the Board of Recreation
provides the supplies and the VVPA Recreation
Project sends their workers. The center is under
the direct supervision of the Board of Recreation.

These abandoned school buildings are not, of
course, the only centers in Reading. Many years
ago, the Board of Recreation and the Board of
Education worked cooperatively for the wider use
of new school buildings. The old type school

(Continued on page 588)

An Annual Winter Frolic

ST. LOUIS COUNTY, Minnesota, is a Winter sports
empire with all its implications. Citizens of
this winter country gather each year to enjoy the
county-wide celebration where they meet all
friends and enjoy winter activities to their fullest
as well as coming into contact with their city’s
winter sports friends. The activities in connec—
tion with this frolic in the beginning centered
around broOmball games, speed skating, hockey
games, and the queen coronation pageant. Later
outdoor activities, competitive events and novelty
features were worked into the schedule for the
frolic. In 1937 an important innovation was made.
A county-Wide Winter sports convention was held.
A year later, 1938, the second annual convention
was attended by I50 delegates representing twenty
regions of St. Louis County. This convention was
formed into a Greater Rural St. Louis County
Winter Sports Association which now sponsors
local, regional and county-wide winter sports
programs.

One hundred and fourteen rural communities,
each with a winter sports committee, selects three
delegates (one man, one woman, and one school
worker) who are members of the regional board
and delegates to the annual convention. Twenty
regional winter sports planning boards each ap—
point two delegates to the county-wide planning
board. The emphasis at the local, regional, and
county-wide frolic especially is on mass activity
and participation by all, as contrasted to limited
participation by a highly specialized few. Spon-
taneous activity is encouraged and much to be de-
sired. New novelty events and informal activity
are introduced each year. Wood chopping con-
test, wood sawing contest, wooden horse competi—
tion, German band contest, parades, queen corona-
tion pageant, and the rural community stunt pro-
gram on the ice are a few of the many introduced.

To give color to the frolic a parade with torch
lights and banners, as well as frolic caps, kerchiefs,
arm bands and other insignia, was held preceding
the coronation pageant ceremonies.

As an important part of the development of the
rural frolic program, the series of numerous meet-
ings held in the many communities of the county
plays a vital part. In keeping with the plan that
recreational activity must be educational to be of
lasting value, the holding of these meetings is
encouraged. From IV inter Sports Y earboole, Lei—
sure Education Department. St. Louis County
Rural Schools.

588 IN DEFENSE OF COURTING!

In Defense of Courting!
CONSIDER the right of young people for a place

to court. Where homes are large there is no
problem, but where homes or apartments are
small and crowded and lacking in facilities for
the entertainment of friends, there must be other
provision for a place to court. .

The young lovers of Union County, New Jer-
sey, have a friend in Chief Lyman L. Parks of
the Union County Park Police, who has an-
nounced that parking at night in the County park
system is permitted and protected. “It seems,”
says Chief Parks, “that the only place left for
courting is in a car, and, since courting is a nat-
ural prelude to marriage, night parking is per-
mitted in the Union County park system.”

Three police cars patrol the parks and officers
see to it that couples who park are protected.
Chief Parks insists that two rules be observed.
One is that car lights must be left on. The other
is that cars can be parked only where parking is
permitted in the daytime. The curfew hour is
II :00 P. M.

In “Wither Honolulu?” Lewis Mumford has
expressed some of his opinions along this line.
“The courtship of boys and girls in the city’s
streets, or in drab places on the outskirts where
they may take refuge for greater privacy, is one
of the most pitiable spectacles that the modern
city furnishes. . . . One of the best uses to which
any park may be put is obviously to serve as a
harmonious meeting place for young lovers. . . .
(What are needed are) public gardens and
promenades that lovers will take to naturally, in
preference to the sordid quarters that dishonor
their every emotion. Without any ostentatious
declaration of purpose, the placing and planting
of neighborhood promenades may well make a
positive contribution to the biological wellbeing
of the community, through their direct effect upon
the moods and feelings of the young.”

 

 

Education Moves Out—Recreation Moves In

(Continued from page 58?)
building fills a need in sections of the city where

new school buildings do not exist. In fact, many
of the newer school buildings are planned for
after school and evening recreation activities.
This was done in consultation with the Stiperin-
tendent of Public Recreation. .

Education has moved out and recreation has
moved in because the people want to take advan-
tage of every facility owned by them.

Robert Marshall

(Continued from page 564)

Secretary of Agriculture, Henry A. ,VVallace,
has announced that his department plans to name
a forest recreation area for Bob Marshall in com-
memoration of his contribution to the mainte-
nance of forest recreation values in our national
life.

Recreational Music
(Continued from page 569)
Toys Test Musical Talent

Musical ability and initiative can be discovered
very early in the life of a child by exposing it to a
few toys that permit a certain amount of personal
performance and at least a choice between related
notes and mere noise. If the child likes to pick out
a tune or a harmony on bells or a primitive Xylo-
phone or piano, or if it begins to take an interest
in the effects of closing certain holes in a pipe.
there is immediate evidence of talent, and this can
be encouraged and developed as far as the parents
desire, long before a music teacher is even faintly
considered and without any suggestion of turning
a pleasant game into an exacting task.

Somewhere in the life of every child there is a
danger point which must be successfully passed
by tactful parents and teachers. Why do so many
things that are the games of childhood become the
drudgeries of adult life? Why does the little girl
who loved to play at cooking and washing dishes
and mending dresses so often grow into a woman
who hates all those duties in her home? How can
a boy who was once a good amateur carpenter
resent the thought of doing the same sort of
manual work for a living, or at least contributing
such odd jobs to the upkeep of his own house?
Why, above all else, do so many people who played
with music in their childhood lose their zest amid
the formulas of “practice” and “lessons” and
“exercises,” and end by being bored by all except
the most brilliant performances, or possibly re-
gretful that they themselves could not stand the
drudgery that was demanded of them? Perhaps
our adults, as well as our children, are badly in
need of a trip to Musical Toyland.

Strengthen Your Financial Base!
(Continued from page 570)

tournments are held, all the best players in the
municipality enter. Social distinctions and bank
accounts are forgotten for a time, and everybody
has fun.

YOU ASKED FOR IT! 589

Of course all park and recreation bodies would
like to have larger appropriations, but the Board
in Winchester is inclined to believe that the town
provides decently, all things considered. The
Board is also of the opinion that if tennis did not
make so general an appeal all up and down the
economic 'scale, it would be much more difficult to
obtain the money required for some other activi-
ties important for those in straightened circum-
stances. Because of the high grade of the tennis
the entire public recreation system finds favor in
the eyes of the rich, which- means that many dis-
agreeable financial battles need not be fought.

Recently softball teams of men who look pros-
perous have begun to appear. The playground
commissioners are glad to welcome them. This
sport is becoming classless as sport should be, and
the budget foundation is further strengthened.
There is nothing like spreading tax money about
so that the benefit from the outlay is felt by every

family in the community. Public recreation is.

more secure when it is broad.

Last spring, another extension was made with
twilight field hockey for women and girls. This
excellent team game is taught and played in the
high school both interscholastically and intra-
murally. The limitation is the lack of.carry-over.
In after years few women about Boston play it
except physical education teachers and society

, girls. The season is in the fall.

2 Young business women and matrons have found
small opportunity for keeping up the game. The
remedy is spring field hockey after daylight sav—
ing begins, the season running from the first of
May to the middle of June. Here again the play-
ground commissioners find an opportunity to ex-
tend benefits to groups who have been rather left
out. The financial base of recreation is made

‘ stronger.

These illustrations may be helpful to board

. members in other communities where there is ap-

prehension that a wave of parsimony may wreck

the system of public recreation. Every citizen who
receives a personal dividend in fun looks with
greater favor on good times to be had by all.

Trends in Public Recreation
(Continued from page 575)

to creative expression still active. Interestingly
enough one of the most effective ways of satisfy-
ing this urge in adults is through activities which
involve giving service to others. Here, then, is

‘another tool that lies ready to our hand. Giving
I (Continued on page 590)

I.

You Asked for It!

Question. What can be done to help mothers
provide play activities which will aid in keeping
children from playing in the streets?

Answer. In Baltimore an attempt has been
made through the setting 11p of the Mothers’ In-
stitute to meet the urgent need to keep little chil—
dren safe and happy on the sidewalks and lawns
near their homes. More and more, through the
playground extension work of the traveling gypsy
storyteller, it has been found that children of eight
and younger are not permitted by parents to cross
streets or go beyond certain designated corners or
alleys near their homes. The playing areas left to
these children are, therefore, either the sidewalk
or the street. Through this restriction, danger is
reduced but it is by no means eliminated. The
hazard of running into the street to retrieve balls
still remains and it was thought that new street
play habits and interests could eliminate this ever
present danger.

The Playground Athletic League visualized
groups of interested mothers all over the city,
armed with a practical kit of songs, stories and
games, together with the will to carry through a
safe play program for the children in their neigh-
borhoods. Invitations were sent to the Child
Study Association, Federation of Women’s Clubs,
the Girl Scouts, the Baltimore Safety Council,
Women’s Civic League, Parent-Teacher groups
and through the press. The Institute was launched
under the slogan, “Safe on Sidewalk,” an 5.0.5.
for children’s safe sidewalk games.

Stunts, relays, races, singing games, finger
plays, stories and story—plays, kindergarten games,
folk dances, and suggestions for dramatic play
were included in the course. One “property,”
however, was missing from the kit ;. this was the
ball. Activities woven about the rope, the hop-
scotch heel, bean-bag or jackstones were numer—
0115, but the ball was taboo.

The informality of the Institute encouraged
free discussion of some very real play problems.
For instance, during the period given to Dramatic
Play, one grandmother aroused keen interest when
she told how her grandson, aged five, liked to play
“school” with the neighborhood children, always
giving himself the role of “teacher.” The chil-
dren, however, invariably ran home crying be-
cause of the severe corporal punishment meted
out for some trivial or imagined offense. Follow-
ing a general discussion of some possible under-

590 TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION

lying reasons for such behavior, the class sug-
gested that the cure be a set of tricks to be pulled
from the grandmother’s “play kit” at the pro-
pitious moment. Her tricks might be: “that the
clock on the kitchen wall said, ‘Recess Time’ or
‘Time for Rehearsal of the School Play’ ” and
“that the bean—bag was ready for a game of ‘Num-
ber Toss,’ ” or “that ‘The Three Billy Goats
Gruff’ would make a fine story to play.”

The Mothers' Institute has been conducted in
the spring for the past two years and the response
has been city—wide, with parents coming from
practically every section. Marguerite S. Burdick,
District Supervisor, Playground Athletic League,
Baltimore, Maryland.

Trends in Public Recreation
(Continued from page 589)

service to others through committee work, through
making things for other peOple and through a
myriad of activities motivated by altruism, offers
a guide to program planners in recreation and
adult education. Again we find re—creative values
fostered both by work experiences and by learn-
ing experiences.

Perhaps these verbal sketches will help you to
see what is meant when I say that the task of
building this recreation point of view in people of
all ages is an educational task. You can see as
well that it is not a task for recreation leaders to
carry alone nor for school authOrities to carry
alone, nor for parents to carry alone. It is a task
in which all must cooperate, each giving the high-
est type of service possible—each institution even
changing the direction of its traditional approach
in the interest of attaining an even more funda—
mental objective than the one which has long
been dominant.

With the objective before us and some possible
approaches to that objective briefly outlined, the
most important remaining problem is that of ad—
ministrative coordination of all agencies concerned.
No matter how many agencies are trying to give
a person the recreation point of view, their ap-
proach, to be effective, must be a unified approach.
The fundamental change that we want to bring
about in each individual is but a single unitary
goal. We want to develop an attitude, and fix that
attitude so strongly that it will affect his whole
life.

This is an educational task. And no matter by
what agency of government the task is under—
taken, the approach must be made through the use
of the best educational techniques that can be

devised. This requires, in my opinion, the closest
possible type of coordination between educational
and recreational authorities.

As a specific proposal to this end—and one with
which I am in complete accord—permit me to
quote a paragraph from a recent publication of
the Educational Policies Commission entitled
Social S er'z'ices and the Schools. I quote:

“The Educational Policies Commission foresees
the ultimate unification of all public educational
activities in communities or areas of appropriate
size under the leadership of a public education
authority. Patterned after the best recreation
boards and boards of education which it super-
sedes, this authority will be charged with the ad—
ministration of a community educational program.
Its powers will be derived from the state by virtue
of existing state responsibility for public educa-
tion. Its functions will include the provision of a
broad educational and leisure—time program for
persons of all ages.”

The important factors in that recommendation
are, first, that education and recreation would be
coordinate services rendered by a single authority,
and, second, that this is a step for the future—for
us to work toward over a period of a generation.
At no point does it suggest that boards of educa-
tion, as constituted today, should “take over”
public recreation. Indeed, as public recreation ati
tains its full stature in the years to come, any loss
of identity of one within the other will become
literally impossible.

This proposal represents to me the logical con-
clusion to current trends in the relationships of
recreation and the public schools.

Cross-Country Running in County Parks
(Continued from page 576)

The Physical Education Departments of the
high schools of Union County, and especially
those in the city of Elizabeth, by fostering this‘r
sport among the students have been the majorr
factor in having the courses in the park system
used so extensively.

Conclusions drawn from the experience of thf
Union County Park Commission would indicate
that cross«COUntry running is a sport which should
be promoted by all county park departments. The
cost of upkeep for such a course is small, partici-
pation in this sport is increasing, and count}
parks, which are usually of the larger type 0'
park area, lend themselves most readily to the en

couragement of this activity.

   
 
   
  

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Short -Time Camps

By Ella Gardner. Miscellaneous Publication NO. 346.
U. S. Department of Agriculture. Government Print-

ing Office. Washington, D. C. $.15.
THOUGH designed primarily as a manual for 4-H

leaders, this practical booklet Of eighty-nine pages will
be of interest to camp directors and counselors at camps
of all kinds. It discusses such problems as standards for
facilities and their use, physical equipment, sanitation,
safety, food planning. and service, business management,
and camp organization and conduct. Much emphasis is
laid on the subject of the camp program, and many
practical suggestions are offered for the various activities
entering into the program.

The Singin' Gatherin'

By Jean Thomas and Joseph A. Leeder. Silver Burdett
Company, New York. Complete edition, $2.00. Student’s
edition, $.60.

HERE HAVE BEEN many collections of song ballads and
ditties from the Southern Appalachians, but in
this volume there are a number which have not appeared
in other books. They have been grouped according to the
occasion in which they would naturally be sung, and so
there are work songs, play-game songs, and hymn tunes.
Melodies with piano accompaniment. descriptive notes,
dance directions, illustrations, and the complete text of
“The Singin’ Gatherin’” festival are all included. The
complete edition of The Singin’ Gatherin’ book is bound
in a reproduction of homespun linsey-woolsey, with letter-
ing which looks as though it had been written with a
goose quill pen dipped in homemade eld-erberry ink. The
-student’s edition, though not bound in cloth, is in a
“lasty” binding of paper.

Book Quotation Crostics and
Other Puzzles

By Alice Neptune Gale. The H. W. Wilson Company,
New York. $1.35.

IN AN EFFORT to learn whether her puzzles would meet

with popular approval, Mrs. Gale tried them out with
pupils in the Norwood, Ohio, High School. They were
so successful that this volume of Book Crostics is the
result. There are forty crostics, as well as a half dozen
other question-and-answer games. The correct answers
are included. The Wilson Company has also printed
separate copies of the crostics put up in lots Of ten for
15 cents, with a minimum order of three lots.

“we - _-—-

Intramural Sports

By Elmer D. Mitchell. A. S. Barnes & Company, New
York City. $2.00.

' NTRAMURAL SPORTS, which provide opportunities aside
from, as well as deveIOping material for, varsity com-
Detition. have gained a strong foothold in schools and

l

colleges in recent years. This revised edition of the
standard work on intramural athletics discusses the or-
ganization and relations Of the department, rules, scoring,
problems, prOgram, and awards. There are numerous
tables and diagrams of suggested plans of organization
taken from actual experience as well as a comprehensive
bibliography on the subject.

Time Off and On

By Abbie Graham. The Womans Press, New York. $1.00.
OUR RECOMMENDATION is that recreation workers, club

leaders, teachers. and all others who live in a mad
rush—and that includes practically everyoneI—take
enough time off to read this delightful book Of random
thoughts on seasons. It is a good book to read if you
find yourself growing too serious. It is excellent for the
“blues,” and it is equally effective when you are feeling
“on top of the world.”

Table Games

By Ray J. Marran. A. S. Barnes & Company, New York
City. $1.50.

BELIEVING that children can have just as much fun in

making table games as in playing them, the author
describes over fifty original games in detail, telling how
each board is made and how each game is played. There
are spinning arrow, spinning top, and numbered‘cube
games, checkerboard games, finger snip games, and games
with tiddledy-winks—all illustrated with line drawings.
Any child can copy the diagrams for the layouts by draw-
ing straight lines along an ordinary ruler or curved lines
and circles with the aid of a drawing compass.

Rustic Construction

By W. Ben. Hunt. Bruce Publishing Company, Mil-
waukee. $.50.

AS THE AUTHOR points out in his preface, the boy or
man who likes to work with tools and wood can
duplicate the articles made by our hardy pioneer fore-
fathers who built their houses, furniture, fences, and
gates from material which they wrested from field and
forest. Mr. Hunt tells how to make slab furniture. in-
terior fixtures, and equipment such as shelves, candle-
sticks, and lamps, fences and gates, arbors, bridges, road
signs, and birdhouses. The booklet is illustrated through-
out with diagrams and plans.

The Dartmouth Book of Winter Sports

Edited by Harold Putnam. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $3.00.

IF YOU have read this book, you will understand the

enthusiasm of Dartmouth graduates and under-
graduates for the Dartmouth Outing Club and its pro-
gram. The book, the individual chapters of which have
been prepared by members of the Club, describes the

591

592 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

methods which have won for Dartmouth a place of
leadership in the winter sports field. It traces the de-
veIOpment of skiing and skating in America and presents
detailed instructions in these sports together with infor—
mation in winter camping, mountaineering, and snow
sculpture. Following sections on skiing and skating, the
third section describes the famous winter carnival and
its organization and tells of jaunts through foreign lands

by Dartmouth’s skiers.

Skating.
By Harold Putnam and Dwight Parkinson. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00. -

This book, one of the latest in the practical series of the
Barnes Dollar Sports Library, is a section of The Dart-
mouth Book of Winter Sports (reviewed in this issue of‘
Recreation), published separately for those interested
only in skating. It contains easy-to-follow information on

equipment, simple techniques of plain skating, and in—
structions in speed and figure skating. It is illustrated

with photographs and line drawings.

Skiing.
By Walter Prager. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.00. -
This new member of the Barnes Dollar Sports Library
family, like its companion piece Skating, is a section Of

The Dartmouth. Book of Winter Sports. It is a practical
handbook for the beginner and also contains advanced

techniques for the more experienced skier.

Floodlighting Plans for Sports and Recreation.

Illuminating Engineering Laboratory, General Elec-
tric Company, Schenectady, New York. Free.

Officials charged with the responsibility of developing
sports areas will be interested in securing a copy of this
practical booklet of plans and information on lighting

sports areas. Included in it are lighting plans for swim--

ming pools, tennis courts, badminton, baseball, softball,
bowling greens. football, croquet courts, lawn recreations,
shufi‘leboard, and other areas.

An Introduction to Decorative Woodwork.

By Herbert H. Grimwood and Frederick Goodyear.
The Manual Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois. $6.00.

The amateur woodcarver is often confused by the
“mystery of art” surrounding design. As a guide to the
beginner, in school handicraft, particularly, two experts
present in this book the principles of woodcraft decora-
tion in simple and concrete form. With the modern
functional ideal in mind, they explain approach, propor-
tion and shaping, association of woods, use of color, as
well as the selection and handling of tools. Over 150
photographs of finished articles and line drawings il-
lustrate the book. The final chapter is a discussion of
future trends in woodcarving, in reference to the goals

of craft educators.

Weather.

By Gayle Pickwell, Ph.D. Whittlesey House, Mc—
Graw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $3.00.

Here is a book which cannot fail to interest the nature
hobbyist. Dr. Pickwell has unfolded the story of weather
in vivid words and pictures without the use of scientific
terms to confuse the average reader. The wind, sun,
rain, hail, snow, and ice all have a share with the oceans,
mountains, deserts, and lakes in telling the story of
Weather. Not even plans for making the instruments
necessary to be an amateur weather man have been
omitted. An interesting chapter on “What Man Does
About the Weather” has to do with folklore weather
prediction and presents rules for amateur weather
prediction.

Sing Your Way to Better Speech.

By Gertrude Walsh. E. P. Dutton and Co., New
York. $2.50.

This book is full of fun and good tunes, and yet it
looks as though even the most tongue-tied, gutteral,
blatty or just inane of speech would gain through it a
clarity, agility and winsome rhythm and inflection in
speaking that would greatly increase his value as a per-
son, for himself as well as for other people, and also as
a worker in whatever field. All the most effective kinds
of drills that make for better speaking are here given in
clever and often very enjoyable jingles set to familiar
tunes. Our first impression was of concern for the good
tunes. Are they not spoiled in our memories by being
associated with these jingles? But there is a very en-
gaging mentality in these jingles, and delightful allitera-
tions and assonance to make any poet envious of such a
chance for pleasure. There is often also jolly good sense.
So the tunes seem to welcome their strange companions
as though they were not strange but already very good
friends, even if only temporarily together, each with
its tongue in its cheek while the singer is working his to
a fare-you—'well.—A. D. Zaneig.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

JOIIN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

17.. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Molinc, Ill.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y. ,
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.

MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa. '

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y. _

MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTH, Washington, D. C. ,
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y. :
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. W‘INANT, ConCOrd, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

