Giving Youngsters a Chance
to Be Themselves

I I IUMAN NATURE is fairly tough. Boys and girls, young men and

young women have great power of resisting what seems alien

to them. Personally, I thank God for this resisting power, for
this inner strength of personality. As we of an earlier generation try
to think of special programs of clubs and groups arranged for us, we
find it difficult to remember a great deal of value in them. The pro-
grams, the ritual seem rather meager, boring, imposed, as we look back
upon them and compare them with the swimming, skating, baseball
playing which we initiated ourselves. We remember so much more
vividly the little creek we explored, the raft we built to float down
the stream in the springtime floods, the hill we coasted down in the
winter, the deep dark woods as seen by the four-year-old, the nut
trees in the fall, the dog that played with us, the hsh we caught, the
attic on rainy days with the patter of rain on the roof. All this we
remember vividly and with pleasure.

What we do remember about the programs of the clubs and
groups in which we participated is the men who led us, the men who
understood us, who liked us, who did not talk too much, did not
lecture too much, who helped us do what we wanted to do, who
themselves had pleasure in doing things with us. These men seemed
a part of nature. They still belong to us. These men also we remem-
ber with pleasure when the programs they tried to foster are forgotten.

It is worth while in each generation for men and women who are
simple and real to give their time to boys and girls, just as such lead-
ers gave time to us when we were trying to lind our way. Such recre—
ation leaders will not try to do too much for youngsters, but will
create the joyous, healthy atmosphere in which youngsters mostly

do for themselves.

W Kiwaéuxt/

 

OCTOBERlouo

 

405

Courtesy Department of Municipal Recreation and A duit Education, Milwaukee, Wiicon-s.

"Regardless of what we do today in national physicalI mentalI and emotional stability
or international at‘fairsI tomorrow must be ctr-our present generation of children."—
sateguarded. and the greatest safeguard Virginia Kletzet', President. National Con-
tor tomorrow is the preservation of the gress of Parents and Teachers.

 

l

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l

| hill,” when he is inclined

Man and His Leisure

HERE COMES a time to
I everyone who, like

myself, in Sir Walter
Scott’s phrase, has “reach-
ed the other side. of the

to generalize from his own
experience. I have led what
I suppose might be called
a busy life, and I can hon-
estly say I have thoroughly
enjoyed it. But I have
always had an inordinate
appetite for leisure, and a
profound belief in its

I value. So today I would offer you, most respect-
II fully, a few reflections on the employment of

l

 

T those seasons when our professional harness is

unloosed, and we are turned out to grass.

Importance of the “Margins of Life”
My topic, if you will permit me, is the practi-
cal importance of the margins of life, the residuum

which is left to us when we have completed the
tasks which earn us our daily bread. I am not a

I, Scotsman and an elder of the Scottish Church for

‘ I

nothing so I am going to take a text, and it shall

. be from the Book of Ecclesiasticus: “The wisdom

I

of the learned man cometh by opportunity of lei—
Ksure; and he that hath little business shall become
wise.” After the fashion of the old type of Scot-
tish minister, I would add that I am especially
concerned with the first clause of the verse, for I
do not think the second clause is equally sound:
~“Wisdom cometh by opportunity of leisure.”

:9 This is an immense subject, and I want to limit
myself to one practical aspect of it. There are
many aspects. For example, there is the socio-
logical and economic side. We are all agreed that
.one of the chief objects of education is to enrich

I our leisure and that the policy of shorter hours of

work carries with it the obligation to enable the
worker to employ his spare time worthily. Today
we are witnessing the triumph of the machine,
through which the monotonous, exacting magual
toil of the past is to a large extent done away
with. A mechanized world means, in the long run,
a very drastic reconstruction of industry, under

By LORD TWEEDSMUIR

The death of Lord Tweedsmuir last February
plunged Canada into mourning for one of its
greatest Governor-Generals. To many he was
best known through his writing which had re-
ceived world-wide recognition. As a writer.
romanticist. and historian. he appealed to a
vast audience. In an address. "Man and His

Leisure." given before the Canadian Club of
Toronto. Lord Tweedsmuir revealed his sym-

pathetic interest in workers in the field of
recreationl and his appreciation of the im-
portance of leisure. We are happy to reprint

this address from Child and Family Welfare.

which labour may be ra-
tioned with fewer working
hours, and the enforced
leisure thus created will
have to be filled up with
new employments and new
interests. There are some
—-and I strongly sympa-
thize with them—who
dream of a world where a
man will have compara-
tively few hours of regu-
lar work, and the rest of
the day he will be crafts-
man or farmer, producing
the necessaries, and some of the luxuries, of his
life. The machine may end by playing the part
which slave labour played in the old Greek world,

and be the basis of a richer and more civilized
life for all. '

The Cultural Side of Leisure

Then there is the cultural side of leisure. If we
are to live a full and worthy life we cannot live
only for our professions. We are human beings
as well as doctors, accountants, lawyers and en-
gineers, and we have to get satisfaction out of life
as well as a living. If we are wise, we will pre-
serve intellectual interests wider than our actual
vocations, things which keep the mind alive and
keep us in touch with other aspects of the world.
There is the aspect, for example, which we reach
through books and the various forms of art.
There is the aspect which we reach through a love
of wild nature, and you in Canada have magnifi-
cent chances for that. There is the aspect which
we reach through sport. Sir Andrew Aguecheek,
you remember, in Twelfth N ight, complained that
to acquire foreign tongues you must give up time
which might have been devoted to bear-baiting.
We dare not minimize the importance of what we
might call the bear-baiting side of life. All these
varied interests keep a man young. The late Lord
Bryce was the most astonishing example I have
ever known of the power of engrossing hobbies to
preserve youth. I remember him telling me, when
he was well over eighty, with the glee of a boy,
that he was getting enormous pleasure in planning

407

408

out a new life of Justinian which he proposed to
write. And if you went for a walk with him, even
in his last years, his interest in everything he saw
and heard was like that of a child on holiday.

Its Practical Importance

But I am going to limit my subject to the sternly
practical. My argument is that leisure—rightly—
used leisure~—-is essential to the success of our
professional work itself. This applies, I think, to
every calling I know, to every learned or skilled
profession, and to every branch of commerce or
industry. The secret of success is to do a job

efficiently with the minimum of labour. This does .

not mean the ordinary labour-saving appliances.
which often complicate work, but it does mean
preliminary thought and reflection. Most jobs are
done with an absurd waste of labour. Let me give
you an example from a subject about which I
once knew a little—military intelligence. When
the Great War began, most people thought the
proper way to obtain a surprise was by an im-
mense and elaborate secretiveness in every detail,
even the smallest. At first our own authorities
carried this to a ridiculous length, while Germany
carried it still further, with the result that there
was a Herculean effort after secrecy, which meant
the employment of thousands of officials and the
expenditure of vast sums of money. It failed, as
it was bound to fail. Then, very slowly, we learned
our folly and made some attempt to find out what
we really wanted. For the true art of secrecy is
to be so open about ninety-nine per cent of your
subject that the remaining one per cent is the more
easily hidden, because its existence is unrealized.
Before the close of the war we used to let the
enemy have an enormous amount of true informa—
tion about things which did not matter, and
thereby concealed the better the small fraction
which mattered everything.

Most of us are apt to have a feeling at the back
of our heads that the more work we put into a
thing, the better we shall do it. I believe that this
idea originally arose from Puritan theology, which
took a grave view of life, and considered that it
should be divided strictly between work and de-
votional exercises. The spirit is perpetuated in
our hymns—“Give every flying minute something

MAN AND HIS LEISURE

solid plodding work and not enough upon fruitful
leisure, means that a task does not get sufficient
preliminary preparation and therefore our efforts
may be largely wasted.

Leisure Helps One to See Round One’s Task

To avoid waste and unnecessary toil, to give our
work the maximum of effort, we must be able to
see round our task. This cannot be done while
we are engaged in its minutiae. It can only pro-
perly be done when the mind is free, in its hours
of leisure. Then only can we get a proper view—
point and the right perspective. Leisure is as
essential for true efficiency as is the long spying
of the ground when you are hunting, before you
begin your stalk.

Let me take one or two examples from differ-
ent callings. I will begin with business. The
staple of nearly every business is, of course, a
mass of detailed duties which must be fulfilled,
and which require no special qualifications except
industry and experience. Now and then comes the
need for a critical decision, and now and then the
need for a synoptic view of the prospect. But the
ordinary work may correctly be described as rou-
tine. The danger is that we allow the routine
element to get the upper hand, and refuse to con-
sider the shape of the wood, or even of the trees,
because of our absorption with the undergrowth.
We have seen the consequences of this in Britain
since the war. Too many businessmen did not
realize that world conditions had changed, and
were content to plod in the old ways. They may
have redoubled their energy in their detailed work,
but they did not look around them until it was
too late, and the time for reconstruction and re-
adjustment was gone, and they found themselves
left with a machine which was out of all relation
to current needs.

America before 1929 was an interesting case. I‘

Many of my younger American friends had been I
given an education for business to which I think 1
there is no parallel elsewhere; an education in the
humanities, in law, and an experience of foreign
countries, in addition to the technique of their
special calling. But since business was America’s
pet vocation, it became to many a sacred thing,

the only profession for, sane people, an emotion, a ‘

to keep in store”—a very sensible piece of advice
if you interpret the “something” with reasonable
generosity. But the fact is that you can easily put
too much work into a job; what yOu cannot put
too much of, is intelligence. Undue emphasis upon

delight, something into which the old fervour of .
New England Puritanism had gone. I remember}
how I used to find my business friends in a furyi '
of concentration. Their office hours were inorfi
dinately long, and out of office hours business ‘

MAN AND HIS LEISURE 409

followed them into private life. I was rather
worried about them, in spite of their optimism
and self-confidence, for it did not seem to me
that they could have any leisure to look around.
Then one day, I remember, I was the guest of
a very famous business man, whose name is a
household word throughout the globe. I found
that he seemed to be possessed of infinite leisure.
I mentioned to him my recent experience, and I
had the temerity to express my fears.
“You are right,” he said, “our boys have got
hold of the wrong end of the stick, and presently
they are going to pay for it. As for me, I should
regard myself as a failure if I went to my off-ice
for more than a few hours in the day, or more
Ithan five days in the week I go down there, call
up one or two people, have a conference with my
,' departmental heads, and go home.”
“What do you do at home?” I asked.
“I sit in the garden,” he said, “or I go fishing.
llAnd I think. I get a whale of a lot of thinking
“done. It is thinking that matters.”

Let us turn to other professions. Soldiering.
'lVVell, there is no question of the importance of
.this background of leisure in the life of a great
‘lsoldier, especially~ in these days when battles are
'won in the brain before they are won in the field.
( A general simply dare not allow his mind to be
.confused by details. He must be able to sit back
.from the melee and preserve, in the fever of the
campaign, an exact perspective. Take the profes-
";ion of the law. One of the merits of the law is
that there is a good deal of compulsory leisure,
{for the courts have a-lovable practice of not sit-
y‘ing continuously. So a lawyer has a special op-
)ortunity of seeing round his subject and of set~
ing it in proper relation to human life; If you
will study legal history you will admit, I think,
. hat the greatest lawyers have nearly always been
 'nen of wide interests, and '
hat these interests have
 tsually contributed to the
'l nastery of their chief sub-
ltect. Their leisure, their
' lnargin of life, has been so
thed as to contribute in-
If'lalculably to their effici-
ncy in their chosen
alling.
The case is still stronger
1 "with the statesman. The
llEatesman’s job is not one
‘fspect of the life of the

| I

 

l

 

!
t

 

"Someone once said that every man should be
'lonely at heart.’ That is not so easy in a
bustling world. Too much of our time is Spent
on the treadmill. without vision and perspec-
tive in our work. and with a most intolerable
clatter in our ears. But sometimes we must get
away from the din and discover ourselves. We
need seasons of solitude with ourselves. for we
must all be solitary in the great crises of life.
and we must all be alone at death. That is
the greatest of the fruits of leisure. the
chance to discover our souls. the opportunity
for that 'rest and returning' which. accord-
ing to the prophet. should be our strength.’'

nation, but all of them, and unless he has strong
interests outside the details of politics, he will be
an imperfect master even of -these details. He, of
all men, must cultivate a fruitful leisure if he is
to be in command of his task. I will take as a
notable instance, the late Lord Balfour. To him,
nothing that was human came amiss. He was
deeply interested in art, music, literature and
philosophy, and was indeed, by the by standard,
a competent scientist, and, by any standard, a dis-
tinguished philosopher. He loved human com-
panionship, and seemed to be able to extract
something intelligible and valuable from the dullest
companion. I know that he always made my own
halting utterances sound respectable. He never
lost himself in detail; he never lost his sense of
proportion; he employed his leisure—and he in-
sisted upon a great deal of leisure—to think,
which is by no means a common practice among
politicians.

I remember once talking to a very wise trade
union leader and he said a thing that impressed
me. He said that it was a man’s business “always
to keep on the top of his job.” I like that phrase.
To keep on the top of your job you must be
outside it and not mixed up too much with it.
You must be able, now and then to look right
round it, and you can only do that if you have

leisure.

Leisure Necessary to Highest Objectives
of Living
I would add one more to these random ob-

servations, and this is a graver reflection. In
the old days people had a phrase about a man’s
“making his soul.” You retired from politics,
or business, or soldiering, or whatever was your
profession, and went into retreat before you

died, in order to possess your soul, to settle ac-
I counts with life and make

your peace with Heaven.
We do not talk quite
like that today, and yet
the duty is still impera-
tive. The only difference
is that we now realize
that such a task is not to
be performed only in
seclusion in the twilight
of life. It is a process
which should be going
on all your days.

What They Say About Recreation

" o RECREATION PROGRAM would be complete
N without inclusion of some of the cultUral
pursuits. Pride of achievement, joy in
self—expression, development of skill are but a
few of the results of satisfactory fulfillment of
some project in handcraft, drama or music. . . .
Participation in some art during the teen age often
develops a love, an appreciation and knowledge of
that art that will increase the capacity for enjoy-
ment as a spectator or listener in later life.”—
Mollie Heal/1. Conn in It. Pays to Play.

“When we learn to play with one another we
learn the essential qualities of living together. We
learn that the game has rules which must be fol-
lowed.”—~—Eduard C. Lindcman.

“Beauty, like joy, is inherent in our own con-
sciousness of our world. . . Beauty is space,
making what is ugly grow lovely in the distance.
Beauty is time, making what was painful sweet in
remembering. Beauty is the day, and beauty is
the night. There is beauty'in the shimmer of dust
at our feet, and beauty in the traveling light of
the farthest star. . . . \Nhen we seek beauty or
realize it in any form of our own creation, we
assert within ourselves and bring to release in joy
our human kinship with whatever it is that runs
this great miracle of things.”—Marjorie Barstow
Greenbie in In Quest of Contentment.

“Recreation, in the highest sense of the word,
is today a creative, recreative experience; an ad-
venture in living zestfully and fully. It is not a
pastime, not a tax-consuming device, but a neces-
sity for happiness, health and good citizenship.
Its part is to offer a trained and sympathetic
leadership and a program flexible enough to meet
the continually changing needs of life. . . . Capa-
city for recreation and the impulse to play are in-
born in every human being, but they can attain

only a rudimentary expression until the skills and
arts of recreation are acquired.”

“In the judgment of the Committee on Recent
Economic Changes in the United States, ‘few of
our current economic developments have made
such widespread changes in our national life or

410

promise so much for the future as the utilization
of our increasing leisure.’ The total expenditure
of .the American people for recreation, amuse-
ment, luxuries, and travel, including expenditures
for passenger automobiles, is in the neighborhood
of $I0,000,000,000 in a prosperous year. This is
one of the largest and most rapidly growing items
of the national budget.”——~From Education and
Economic W'cll—Being in American Democracy.

' “The essence of amateurism consists in this:
that there shall be nothing at stake except the
winning of a game played by established rules,
played at the best of each player’s skill and effort,

played because the contestants wish to play it.”—,——
Helena M. Kecs.

“The problem is not so much to define the nec-;
essary recreational facilities as to make people}
aware of their profound value in civic life. Here,
is one facility at least which, the more intensively.
used, becomes the more indispensable — and}
socially prolitable.” —— Phillips Bradley in The
Planners’ Journal, September 1939.

“Let us advise strongly that those who are
about to choose new school sites do not overlook
that all-important question of size, and that those;
of you who have to do with cramped space now;-
resolve to start a movement for the enlargement
of that Space regardless of cost; for the monetary
cost, regardless of What it may be, will after all.
be little in comparison with the character building
qualities produced in such a space.”—Bulletin;
issued by the Department of Internal Affairs]
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

Arum—-

 

“People can be lulled to repose by cocktails, or.
by motion pictures or radio, or by riding in an anti
tomobile. But it will not last long. Faster anc.
more furious excitement is demanded as the app
petite becomes jaded. Our children, from the tints.
they are small, must not only come to understan'c;
but actually become habituated to the gateways tt -
true, lasting enjoyment. It is a matter of musii;
and art, of literature and drama, of plays anti]

games, of supplementary hobbies and avocationsi’ 
o I
-—~l/Vz'llz.am F. Russell, Dean of Teachers College-l

Junior Activities

ina

i Museum oi Science

Assistant Curator of Education
Buffalo Museum of Science

ARLY in 1929, when the Education Depart-
E ment of the Buffalo Museum of Science

{ By RUTH V. WEIERHEISER

it was formally opened to the public with all

, due ceremony, the cases in the Division of

l Junior Education seemed adequate for any con—
tingency. Against three walls tall cases dis-
played beautiful large models of wild iiowers,

l above which small dioramas were placed. Stor-

3 age cases graced one end of the hall.

i Eleven years passed, activities increased, and

l more storage and exhibit cases had to be added.

i The storage cases were placed down the center

'  of the hall and topped with table cases in which

l the best notebooks and many of the objects
made by the children were displayed. Visiting

' children seemed much more interested in ex-

. hibits, objects, or notebooks made by other
children than in the flower models or profes-
sional dioramas. The little ones, however, were
in trouble, for the table cases were too high for
most of them to peer into. They had to be lifted
up by older brothers and sisters.

, In 1939, when some VVPA funds became
available to the Museum, a plan was evolved
for special cases that would do triple duty in
this Division. The tall wall cases were re-

l moved. The Hat-topped table cases on the stor-
age cases were sent to storage. The storage

"Children the world over are very
much the same by nature. They en-
ioy finding out facts. for they pos-
sess insatiable curiosity. Many ot
the most fascinating facts are dis-
covered in the world of nature.”

 

i Courtesy Buffalo Museum of Scwnce

412 JUNIOR ACTIVITIES IN A IlIUSEUM OF SCIENCE

cases were moved against the
walls. Upon these old cases
were built, at the level of the
children’s eyes, cases for nine
junior dioramas with attrac-
tive cubicles above. In the
cubicles the moels of the
flowers are displayed.

The hall in which these cases are placed is
almost entirely artificially lighted. One end is espe—
cially dark in the winter months. Colors for walls
and woodwork in the remade hall had to be se-
lected with these factors in mind. After many
trials of various colors and shades, the walls and
woodwork were painted a warm terra cotta. The
bases of the cases are deeper terra cotta up to
the dioramas. The upper part of all the cases,
with the exception of one triangular corner case,
are painted a dull turquoise blue, while the corner
case is terra cotta. Inside the cubicles where the
colorful flowers are displayed the background is a
light azure blue which looks well when lighted.
All flower cubicles and junior dioramas are in—
directly lighted.

Each year junior classes and clubs meet weekly
after school hours to study particular subjects and
to carry on handwork related to
these subjects. It is planned that
in the future each of such groups
will plan the construction and in-
stallation of a diorama.

The classes taught this year

Not only is the study of nature in its
various forms educationall but it is
also fun, as evidenced by the interest
and enjoyment of hundreds of girls and
boys from six years of age to the late
teens who voluntarily. week after week,
attend the classes and club meetings of-
tered by the Buffalo Museum of Science.

The members of the Zoo Animal
Class of the museum make ani-
mals out of newspapers. paper
towels. paste and paint. The
palms shown in the photograph

were aquatic biology, astron-
omy, American Indians, me—
teorology, nature handcraft.
birds, zoo animals and min-
erals, and the Nature Club.
These subjects naturally in-
fluenced this year’s choice of
diorama material. For in—
stance, the _members of the zoo animal class made
animals out of rolled newspapers. Their diorama
represents pairs of animals walking sedately up to
a gangplank leading to a cardboard Noah’s ark.
All backgrounds for‘the dioramas were made on
bending board, a material that takes pastel colors
applied with fingers as easily as paint put on with
a brush.

Summer work will include the revamping of
two sets of museum games questions to cover the
flowers and insects now on exhibit. This will
mean new labels for the exhibits, for most of the
game questions are based upon information pro-
vided by well-written and well-printed labels.
Next autumn the new refectory tables and
benches, made in our own "carpenter shop and
now extending through the center of the hall, will
be employed for clipping articles from magazines, 7

special games, and crayon work.

“Children's museums offer ser-
vices not provided by the home,
the school, the library, or any
other institution."—.~lmza Gallup. ‘

are also made of newspapers.

 

Courtesy Bufan Museum of Science

ql

Bicycling—A New Extracurricular Activity

ACK IN 1869, New York
City boasted of at least five
prominent bicycle schools
or rinks. Exactly seventy years
later the New York City Board
of Education establis'hed bicycle
classes. A staff of ninety in-
structors under the direction of
Charles  Kraft, Jr. and
Edward McLaughlin are again
showing youth how to ride a
I bicycle properly.. The primary aim of the present
course is to teach safety on wheels, and it is being
l; accomplished by means of lectures, demonstra-
 tions, projects, assembly exercises, riding tests,
‘ and similar activities. Safety awards are made at
l the end of the course. The final examination in-
ll cludes such subjects as wheel control, mounting
| and dismounting, familiarity with the use of traf-
fic signals, and the general care and upkeep of
j. the machine.

l This educational work is already reducing the
. number of street accidents in which bicycles are
involved. Over seventy-five bicycle clubs and
courses have been organized, mainly in the ele—
mentary and junior high schools, though the move-
ment is spreading to the senior high schools.

 

l
l
i“.
l
l The Appeal of the Bicycle
 At some time or another every normal young-
if Ster has desired a bicycle. The wheel appeals to
lhis love of adventure, desire for speed, and pride
of possession.
I Team play and spirit may be brought out in
lcycling as well as in football, baseball, basketball,
and other sports—and probably at a“ lower cost
financially and physically. Team races, formation
riding, and tandem riding all require a great deal
j-of group coordination. In addition, cycling has
the following advantages for all individuals: It
{can be enjoyed by both sexes from seven to
' seventy, and it may be enjoyed-alone or in com—
l( pany with many. It is an outdoor sport for all
v seasons to be taken leisurely or strenuously at the
will of the rider, and it may be competitive or
Ion-competitive. As in walking and swimming,

thicycling brings all the muscles into play, and next
, “to walking it is the most inexpensive method of

A"

By ROLAND C. GEIST
FounderI College Cycle Club
New York City

The New York City Board

of Education has taken
steps to make cycling as
safe a sport as possible

5.

touring the country, since after
the initial expense of purchas-
ing a bicycle, which is about
$25, the upkeep is negligible,
and no expensive stadium or
gymnasium is required as every
park road is a cycle path.
Finally, bicycling is a safe sport
if it is confined to cycle paths
and if bicycles are not used to
compete with automobiles on
express highways.

Organizing a School Bicycle Club or Team

The first requirement for organizing a club is
an interested teacher and a cooperative principal.
In every large school there is usually a teacher
who has enjoyed bicycling in Bermuda or Europe.
A word of encouragement from the principal and
a request from a group of students desiring the
activity are usually enough to start the bicycle
club going.

Interested students will volunteer to pass notices-
around the school building and write articles for
the school periodicals. After the selection of a
room and meeting time, the new student officers
may carry on with suggestions from the instructor
for a program. It is not desirable to limit club
members to seniors, honor students, or athletic
champions (letter men) as it may become “ex-
clusive” and thus undemocratic. Every student

should be invited to join the club. If the group

should grow large, it may be divided into sections

for beginners, intermediates, and experts.

Club Activities

September and February are ideal months to
plan club activities. During the winter months,
when snow and ice cover the roads, an attractive
program may be arranged which provides the fol-
lowing activities: Saturday morning trips to parks
and cycling areas provided by the New York City
Department of Parks; all day tours on cycling
trains operated by the New York, New Haven
and Hartford Railroad Company, the Central
Railroad of New Jersey, the Lehigh Valley Rail—
road, and others ;. and all day tours on cycle boats
sponsored by the Hudson River Day Line,

413

414 BICYCLING—A NEIV EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITY

Colonial Line, and others. There may also be
short trips to points of historical and scenic in-
terest, especially for camera fans. Other activities
include early morning trips to parks to study bird
life, the taking of safety tests sponsored by the
loard of Education, excursions sponsored jointly
by the New York division of the American Youth
Hostels and the Cycle Club, and participation
in parades and carnivals sponsored by bicycle
organizations.

Non-athletic indoor activities may include the
following :

The drawing up of a constitution and rules for
the club, and the selection of a name, insignia,
awards, and costumes

The preparation of advertising posters and dis-
play cards, and of an assembly program as a part
of the safety education project

Talks by men prominent in the cycling world,
such as Olympic cyclists and members of the
Cycle Trades of America, 122 East 42nd Street,
New York City

Presentation of medals, buttons, and awards at
a special meeting

Talks on the purchasing of a bicycle, its care,
and upkeep

A bicycle style show

A demonstration showing how a wheel may be
taken apart and reassembled

Report on a Visit to a bicycle factory and on
current events in the cycling world

The planning of tours and trips for the coming
term

Report on the work of the American Youth
Hostels

Showing of motion pictures of hosteling in this
country and abroad

Research in the field of “Cyclana” (history and
evolution of the bicycle)

Report on new books and periodicals devoted
to cycling ‘

The purchase of second—hand books on cycling
with a view to establishing a Cycle Shelf in the
school library. These books should cost about 50
cents each and may be loaned to fellow.members.

The Bicycles

Light weight wheels should be hired or pur-
chased. A light weight bicycle weighs under
twenty-live pounds. Many American wheels
weigh well over thirty—five pounds, and these
machines are difhcult to push and manage in traf-
fic. European manufacturers have produced bi-

cycles weighing under twenty pounds. Contrary
to popular belief, these light weight machines are
as strong or stronger than the popular heavy
weight wheels. A light weight tandem weighs
under fifty pounds.

The instructors should arrange for the hiring
of wheels in advance at the popular cycle paths.
Rentals vary from fifteen cents to fifty cents per
hour; from fifty cents to $1.00 for a half day for
light weight wheels. It is well for students to
hire wheels with an option to purchase.

The Trip

A short trip averaging about ten miles should
be planned for the opening. of the season. This
distance may be increased to thirty miles for the
more experienced riders. A trip of a hundred
miles should not be attempted by inexperienced
riders. A parental consent note, countersigned by
the Health Education Department, should be re—
quired of every active member. Parents should
assume full responsibility for accidents or loss of
property, and students should promise to obey all
rules and to sign an application blank. Week-end,-
tours and summer vacation tours should not be;
held with the sanction of the school club, and.
students should make such tours as individuals.-
and not as club representatives. The American;
Youth Hostels, Inc., will be glad to plan trips of‘
this kind for youth.

Competitive Bicycling

Team spirit may be fostered through interclass‘
or open competition. Until the club members have
mastered riding, have acquired racing bicycles,“
and secured parental permission, outside competigi
tion in cycling should be postponed. Interclasg:
races of short distances may be fostered, the,
students and bicycles being classified as to weiglliii
Tire width and the model of cycle should also 
taken into consideration when conducting racell,
The usual preparation required for a track me 1_
is necessary for holding bicycle races. Team race 
six day style, will also add thrill to cycle event .
Individual girls’ races at short distances magi
be held. ‘i

The experience of the faculty adviser and t§
interest of the student body will decide wheth ‘
racing should be conducted. Unless a rider 11%
won a race, or at least competed in one, he canni);
consider himself an intermediate in the fieldé

Cycling. Long distance competitions afford a cer
(Continued on page 456)

ALibrary Moves into a Community Center

BRANCH of the Kansas City Public Library
A has been installed at the Jewish Community
Center and has just recently, been moved
from the second to the main floor, to the left of
the entrance where it is easily accessible both to
patrons of the Center and to the visiting public.
Compared to most branch libraries it is luxuri-
ous in its appointments, boasting a fireplace, a
davenport, and a mahogany desk. There are V ene-
tian blinds at the windows, and French doors lead
to a verandah where the branch librarian, Miss
Mary Ross, plans to place tables and chairs for
leisurely reading in the summer. \Vith gay striped
awnings, it should lend a festive note.
The Jewish Community Center is a cultural
', enterprise with a well-planned program of activity

I
udesigned to stimulate the cultural, physical, and

i'social growth of the community. Mr. Ernest
Peiser, President of the Center, says, “This year
i we are concentrating more
ieffectively than ever to

dev elo p healthy-minded

t

With its attractive appointments and furnish-
ingsl the branch library at the Kansas City

By DOROTHEA FRANCES HYLE
Publicity Assistant
Kansas City Public Library

and clear-thinking boys and girls, men and
women.” And he added that, “In these days of,

war and darkness such activities are more urgently
needed than ever.”

The Library Aids the Little Theater

The Resident Theater, under the direction of
W. Zolley Lerner, is fast becoming an outstand-
ing Little Theater group, and the dramas that are
selected and presented are produced to suit the
tastes of local playgoers. It endeavors to bring
Broadway to Kansas City, and will continue to
do so. Starting at first with only a sprinkling of
people in the audience, it
has now grown to peak
proportions, especially on

* Jewish Community Center has much to offer

1 _ . arr»
. , \

 

Kansas City Star Photo

415

416 A LIBRARY MOVIES INTO A COMMUNITY CENTER

those occasions when a New York actor or actress
takes part in the performance with the local cast.

Mr. Lerner is an actor himself and ,is quite
serious in his efforts to realize a community
theater. Speaking before a joint Missouri and
Kansas Library Association group recently, Mr.
Lerner urged the members of the audience to take
back with them to their own counties and towns
a real desire to promote the growth of a little
theater movement in their own communities, if
they did not already have one. The preservation
of the theater and all it stands for is of prime
significance to Mr. Lerner, and his work along
this line has already begun to receive attention
outside the city.

The branch library, located as it is in the heart
of the Center, is able to be of real help to the
Resident Theater. The producers and actors alike
look to the library for material to give them ideas
about settings, the play texts themselves, and books
on advertising which will give them hints for
their publicity campaigns. When the audience is
assembling it is quite natural for many of them
to browse in the library for fifteen minutes or so
before going into the auditorium. Theater patrons
have created as well as stimulated an ever-grow—
ing demand for books of plays and books about
the theater.

In connection with the Resident Theater is the
Theater School, and perhaps more than any other
group in the building, these budding actors and
actresses turn to the library. They call it their
“theater library.” They want plays, old and new,
books on make-up, acting, voice culture, and the
biographies of great men and women.

Lectures Increase Interest in Books

The lecture series sponsored by the Center is
"this year bringing to its patrons such prominent
speakers as Dorothy Thompson, John Masaryk,
Fiorello' LaGuardia, Pierre Von Paassen, and
Orson Welles. How appropriate that a commu-
nity center, bustling with activity, should have
within its walls a branch of the public library.
The audiences are too large for the Resident
Theater, so the lecture series is presented in the
Music Hall of the Municipal Auditorium. The
speakers always create a new interest in the
library. There are to be found some of the books
made famous by the very speakers on the plat-
form. New life is brought to book titles. People
thus interested in current local and world affairs
have right at hand a means to satisfy their thirst

for knowledge and their curiosity concerning.
them. A reading public is an informed publici
The very fact that this branch has grown so
quickly in the matter of service, in answering
questions and supplying material, and in the cir-
culation of an ever-increasing number of ;books,;
both fiction and non—fiction, would seem to provej
conclusively that this branch"library is an 
portant and integral part of the Community:
Center. "

Other Services of the Library

Mr. Irving Levitas, until recently the Directon
of the Institute of Jewish Studies at the Center,‘
has recently gone to Washington to take up his:
duties as a leader of Jewish youth in America;
Here again the library plays an important part;
It not only has a selection of books to interest}
the general public but has also the best library of;
Judaica in Kansas City. Originally the Center,
itself housed the Fishman Memorial Library, and-
while these books have not been given to the
public library, nevertheless the books' from this: '
collection circulate freely with the library books; '
It is said to be one of the most valuable collections ,
in the Middle West and contains books and maga--|
zines on Jewish history, sociology, economics,l
biography, present trends, Zionism, and religious
rites and customs. In connection with this there:
is a Jewish Folk School for children from all
over the city who come every day for lessons in
Hebrew or Yiddish. They all use the library daily.

Much work is being done with the foreign born
in the matter of adult education, and in assistance-j
to those learning and mastering a new language as
well as attempting to absorb a new culture. They
use the library’s books on naturalization, citizen-
ship, and easy English lessons. Here advanced:
students read adult fiction and non-fiction, and it;
is a time for rejoicing when the adult masters 2;,
regular library book for the first time. One"
woman, well in her sixties, recently received her?
seventh-grade diploma. To celebrate the eve '
she borrowed “Madame Curie.” She brought
back, and sighed audibly, commenting, “My, b
that was a wonderful book 1‘”

The librarian works with the schools in t
vicinity also. Last year the’ library contributed
special weekly story hour to the junior gro
made up of youngsters from nine to fourte
years of age. Members of this age group ca
from all over the city. They stayed for club wo

(Continued on page 457) *1

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
    

l

"Let’s Go Wheeling"

boys asked my help in
forming a bicycle club.

Out of this grew the W
High School W heelmen lClub.
5lset'lmw‘such—fi’é‘bTéhis arose as types of
l ires to be used, style of saddle, position of handle
I tars, and gear sizes. In due time each member of
lhe club was enrolled in the Safety Club of the
l :ycle Trades of America.

, The point system was devised whereby each
"toy hasan opportunity to earn enough points
I’lifty is the number set for the present) to win a
'lub emblem. The point system used is as follows:

’. a BOUT A YEAR ago a group of

 

Activity Points
! Trips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

I Races (for entering) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

“ (for participating) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

“ (for first place) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15

l “ (for second place) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10

: “ (for third place) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

“ (for fourth place) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

| Essay on Bicycling (250 words) . . . . . . . .. 20
Scrap book on club publicity, races, cycl-
’ ing pictures (to be evaluated by a com-
mittee, captain of club and adviser) . . .. 15
l For attending each meeting . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2
For every beginner taught how to ride. . . . 5

l l

> Since a great many boys were buying their
I quipment at different stores an agreement was
I.‘iade with two of the better outfitters to allow
Iiiscounts to all club members.

'l A series of high school championships is run
wery Wednesday on one
If the local cinder tracks,

.t distances varying from

l

By VICTOR J. D1 FILIPPO

Physical Education Director

Central High School
Newark, N. J.

The Cincinnati Airport Sports Field's three
and a half miles of bicycle trails. of which
two are hard surfacedI attract many riders

a quarter-mile to five miles.
Boys are not allowed to com-
pete unless they are physically
normal (not medically excused

from gym) and have entered a
minimum number of the “pleasure-training"

rides held on Saturday and Sunday morning, or
twilight rides of ten to fifteen miles at a pace slow

enough so that no one gets left behind (usually
about 10 miles per hour).

The climax of the season comes with the an-
nual championships held on a half-mile county
park trotting track. This event is co-sponsored
with the I3WM' which is one of
the leading amateur cycle groups in the country.
Gold, silver, and bronze medals are awarded to
winners in the various classifications. The two
divisions are:

Junior (under sixteen years of age)

Senior (sixteen years and over).

The junior division has races at one—quarter,
one-half, one mile, while the senior division has
one-quarter, one—half, one, and two mile cham-
pionships.

Stock bicycle races (those with balloon tires
and the usual array of fancy gadgets, lights, horn,
mudguards) are also included in the champion-
ships, and the competition is keen throughout.

Next year it is planned to promote unknown
distance and destination rides, nature trips, sea-
shore rides, and all day excursions to points of
interest.

One of the best projects
the boys put over was the I

 

courtesy Cincinnati, Ohio, Public Recreation Commission

417

418 “LET’S GO WHEELING”

conducting of beginners’
classes in cycling. The learner
furnished the bicycle, in most
cases, but in a few, members
of the club loaned their
“wheels.” Boys and girls
were taught the rudiments of
cycling-——how to mount and
dismount, how to make turns, the proper method
of braking, when to coast and when not to. Oc-
casionally there were boys who wanted to know
more about the mechanics of the bicycle, and
these were instructed during some of the meetings
in the care and repair of the bicycle.

Although bicycling is classified as an extracur-
ricular activity in our school, we also consider it a
vital part of our physical education program be—
cause we have found that a great many boys who
do not have the ability to excel, or who are not
attracted by the usual gym routine of sports and
activities, find satisfaction and benefit physically
from participating in our bike trips and meets. A
parallel situation is found many times on play-

grounds.

Some Values of Bicycling

In bicycle riding we have one of the best means
of promoting wholesome social living. Since the
activity is out of doors, the rider also benefits
from resuming contact with nature—something
which our industrial and business life has forced
us to abandon. Of interest to coaches and ath—
letes may be the discovery that bicycle riding is
one of the best, if not the best, activity for
strengthening the bugaboo of most sports —- knee
injuries. The few localized exercises which we
have for strengthening the knee are inadequate
because they do not hold the individual’s interest
long enough to derive any benefit ; this drawback,
however, is solved by bicycle riding, because in-
terest is kept at a constantly high pitch with the
scenic picture continually changing, unknown
roads explored, and new friends met on the bike
paths.

Club Organization Helpful

Recreation departments can inaugurate this ac-
tivity easily enough and will find plenty of inter—
ested “bike bugs.” A club may be organized with
membership open to all interested parties. Occa—
sionally meetings can be held at various designated
points. A “bicycle play day” or “bikamporee” is
another possibility. A bike parade, with awards

It is suggested that anyone wishing to
secure further information regarding the
organization of clubs and of rides obtain
from the Cycle Trades of America,
Chanin Building. New York City. the
comprehensive booklet on cycling which
is available on request free of charge.

to the biggest, smallest, old7l
est, most attractive, and best
decorated bicycle, is a fine,
project and will stimulate“
further interest. A criticism'
often directed at playground;
programs is that they are:
_ usually confined to the play;l
ground itself. This, of course, is sometimes an,l
advantage and is necessary, but in bicycling, the-
director has an opportunity to take his groups!
away from the immediate surroundings. This 
a valuable addition to the program in city systems
where children rarely have access to Open spacesg
Safety Education

Since safety education is taught in the majority
of schools, most boys and girls know the rules of ‘
safe walking and driving, but from experiencél
and personal observation I have come to feel eacle
cyclist should know and practice the followingl
fundamental rules and regulations:

I. Consider your bicycle a vehicle and obey the“
traffic rules and warnings as if you werél
driving a car.

Have a front and rear light for night riding.
Ride carefully and respect the rights of others:
. Do not ride on sidewalks. l
. Periodically check your bicycle and keep it it;
good shape. f’
Ride on the right side of the road and do not
zigzag.

7. If you love your little brothers or sisters, dc’

not ride with them on the handlebars.
8. Do not hitch on to busses, trucks or other

C I
vehicles. - i

meant)

F"

9. No fancy riding in the streets.
10. Do not ride through playgrounds or play areas
II. Do not park your bike near play areas.
(I’ve seen boys and girls run into a parked 
cycle and cut themselves badly, especially ii‘
the bike is left flat on the ground.) 1
12. Have a sound signalling device.

Keeping in step with our mechanical progress:
the bicycle industry today is producing a moderf
ately priced bicycle which is streamlined, sturdy
comfortable, and also esthetically and appealinglf
colored. Shock absorber devices, improved rim;
and tires, soft, rubber-cushioned handlebar grips
horns, dual lights, speed gears (involving change
of gear ratios enabling the rider to climb and aé
celerate easily), are some of the more importan'
innovations.

 

Community Recreation

"'1

Cleveland Housing Estates

By FLORENCE E. CONNELLY and GEORGE P. BAUER

 0 THE MORE THAx six thousand people who
thOday reside in the Cleveland Public Housing
. Estates, life in these homes is a new experi-
' I:nce in community living. Here they have, besides
"he. modernly equipped apartments and group
».10uses, well-planned play areas and community
l{pace where children may play in safety and
.ldults may spend their leisure hours in the com-
ciany Of their neighbors and friends. Here they
Jay participate in a community program in which
hey themselves play a. major part in planning.
Cedar-Central Apartments. Outhwaite Homes,
.akeview Terrace, and Valleyview Homes are
lacated in former slum areas. Where previously
rxisted little or no play space, today there are
.Vfty outdoor play areas equipped with playground
',pparatus and indoor facilities such as auditori-
Inns, nursery schools, craft and club rooms.
Because of the differences in neighborhoods and
lxisting facilities in the areas where these public
rousing estates are located, the community space
 planned to supplement leisure time facilities
[tisting in the areas. Outhwaite Homes is located
'jr Cleveland's downtown east side. The indoor
; Mcilities within the Estate include a large assembly
“all, club room and kitchen equipped to provide
larvice for one hundred people in the recreation
Jilding, play room for boys with craft shop,
'rls’ play room, and a Boy Scout club room. The
‘tdoor facilities include twenty “tot lots” and
jio areas devoted to play of Older children. These
teas are equipped with swings, slides, sand boxes,
orizontal bars and a junglegym.
llmmediately adjoining the Estate is the Port-
nd- Outhwaite Recreational
enter, municipally operated,
,Le facilities of which include
door and outdoor swimming
"pols, tennis courts, gymna-
’<um, club rooms, outdoor bas-

 

 

i .

Miss Connelly and Mr. Bauer, who pre-
pared this article. are Management
Assistants in charge of community ac-
tivities at Cedar-Central Apartments
and Lakeview Terrace. respectively.

ketball, volleyball, deck tennis, horseshoe courts
and two softball diamonds. All outdoor facilities
have floodlights for evening use.

In the immediate neighborhood are located the
Phillis W’heatley Association, Friendly Inn, Play-
house Settlement, Hiram House, two branch
libraries and two branches Of the Cleveland Pub-
lic Library, the facilities Of which are used by
many Outhwaite Homes residents. The nursery
schools conducted by the Phillis Wheatley Asso-
ciation and the Friendly Inn have a number of
children enrolled from the Estate.

As part Of the original building program at
Lakeview Terrace, a large community building
was constructed. Nearby industries and' arterial
highways tend to isolate this Estate from the
neighborhood. The community building has an
auditorium, a nursery school wing, game room,
kitchen, stage, dressing rooms, craft and club
rooms. Adjacent to these indoor facilities is a
playground equipped with swings, slides, climbing
apparatus, sand boxes and other outdoor equip-
ment. In addition to this there are twenty-seven
smaller play lots scattered about this community
of 2,100 people. These play lots, equipped with
swings, teeter totters, sand boxes, slides and
benches, are used daily by the hundreds of chil-
dren and adults.

Cedar Central Apartments, which houses 654
families, is located on an eighteen acre site which
was formerly one Of the city’s worst slum areas.
As is the general practice in public housing, the
buildings cover a small percentage of the land,
leaving ample space for play and landscaped areas.
These large open spaces have
the additional advantage of
permitting a free circulation
of air and admit the sunlight
so conducive to the mental and
physical health Of the tenants.

419

420 C 031;le UNI TY RECREATION I N CLE I7 If LA N D H O USING ESTA TES

All streets have been elimi-
nated in the Cedar Central
Estate, making it possible
to reach the playgrounds
and community facilities
without the usual trach
hazards. Though many of
the tenants participate in
activities conducted by such
neighboring agencies as the
Central Recreation Center,
Y\\'CA and YMCA, it soon
became apparent that additional facilities for rec-
reational purposes were necessary to meet the

needs of the residents of the Estate. Consequently “

a block of storerooms was converted into a com-
munity center for the use of the tenants and their
friends. This building contains an auditorium,
nursery school, game room, domestic science and
catering facilities, print shop, photography, craft,
club and lounge rooms.

The management of public housing does not at»
tempt to superimpose activities upon the tenants.
The counsel of tenants is sought in determining
what type of program and activities shall be con-
ducted on the playgrounds and in the indoor facili-
ties. A _management representative in each of
these housing estates works closely with the ten-
ants in setting Up the program of activities. It is
the responsibility of this
coordinator to assist the
tenants in organizing ac—

"Community activities in public housing
should perform a dual function. Not only
do they give the tenants an opportunity
to meet and play and enjoy leisure-time
activities with their neighbors, but they
serve as a valuable factor in helping the
management meet the many new problems
with which they are confronted, in aiding
the tenants in making adiustments in these
newcommunities,and in conserving the large
investment of the taxpayer in public hous-
ing for the low-income group in America."

The nursery school at Lakeview Terrace cares
for seventy children whose mothersI through
a committee, are in charge of the activity

tivities, and to make sugges-
tions and recommendations
when programs of cultural‘
and educational value ap-
pear to be overlooked.

The program promoted by
the tenant group is exten-,
sive and covers a wide range
of recreational and leisure:
time activities. Among the:
various activities which ex-,
ist in one or the other of:
these estates are the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts,
Camp Fire Girls, Cub Scouts, and Blue Birds,
There are many other activities for children such
as nursery school, dramatics, photography, dance
ing, game room, crafts, art, gardening, health
clubs, printing, and outdoor play.

' The adults promote credit unions, consumer co-...,
operatives, knitting, sewing, cooking, home man:
agement, study groups, picnics, community nights,
dances, festivals, dramatics, card parties, holiday
programs, private and club parties, art classes,‘
mothers’ clubs and tenant" councils. '

The Outhwaite Homes Federal Credit Union,
No. 3455 was chartered on September 29, 1939,|
following a study course in cooperatives over a
period of six months. Residents and employees of
the Estates are eligible for membership. This has ',
provided a thrift agencyl
for savings, and loans mad:

(Continued on page 454) .

 

Come to the Halloween Carnival!

; ALLowE’EN will soon be
 here again and the prob-
lem of keeping the young-
0 sters off the street and out of
mischief is one of the major
problems of the community. It
I is often impossible for any one
)rganization to handle this
lilone. but if schools, churches.
ll‘ld other institutions can be interested in organ-
.,zing a program the task will become easier. Both
Woung and old are ready for a large measure of
‘lun on Hallowe’en and will want to attend parties
I .nd carnivals. The program should include activi-
lies for all ages and the fees and admission charges
ibould be so low that all will be able to attend, or
“f possible there should be no fee.

 

in our village of about 28,000 population the
*chools. churches, clubs and American Legion plan
eparate entertainment. The American Legion,
.vith the help of the recreation department, con—
j.ucts a costume parade with prizes and free re-
'|reshments. The schools do their share by plan-
ling carnivals and shows. One school in the dis-
trict has become famous for its annual carnival
which is looked forward to by the entire enroll-
lnent of pupils as well as the parents of the
' aildren. A fair sum of money, even though the

lharges are very low, has been realized from this
‘Ctivitv.

 

 

  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 

 

The Program

Each room in the school has a concession which
under the supervision of the room teacher who

1 assisted by some of the pupils and usually sev-
al parents.

Several days before the carnival the sale of in-
ated money is started. One cent will buy one
ollar. This money is used instead of the usual
urrency on Hallowe’en as
'lmission to concessions.
.et's all feel rich on this
gm of witches and goblins!

' Three or four days before Illinois.
‘le event posters appear
jiroughout the school invit-
Ig the crowds to see all the

rature attractions. A chance

By FLORENCE ROTERMUND
Assistant Director of Recreation
Maywood. Illinois

Are you looking for ideas
for l-lallowe'en? Then try
this one and watch the fun!

to view these colorful and dec-
orative posters is well worth
the admission price. This also
stimulates a desire for all to
attend the “big event.” On the
night of the carnival the build-
ing is opened as early as seven
o’clock with all the rooms a
blaze of light and ready for
business. An admission charge is made at the door
of one dollar (one cent) for children and five dol-
lars (live cents), for adults. A charge of from
one dollar to three dollars is made for the con—
cessions which include the following:

Organ Grinder and Monkey. An organ grinder
and monkey are hired for the evening at a set
rate of about five dollars. He is paid from the
receipts of the concession.

Fish Pond. Small inexpensive toys are pur-
chased at a novelty supply house and are “fished”
for by the patrons.

Burst Balloons. Balloons are inflated and fasten-
ed on a large piece .of beaver board. Darts are
thrown and a small prize such as candy is the
reward for bursting a balloon.

Knocking Cats Off the Fence. Wooden cats cut
from a three—inch board are set on saw horses.
These are placed in front of gym mats which have
been suspended from the ceiling. More mats are
placed on the floor to lessen the noise of falling
cats and balls. Ten cent store baseballs are thrown.
Five chances for each contestant.

Night Club. One room is turned into a “night
club.” A Hoor show is put on by the children and
cider and doughnuts are served.

Point Making Games. One room is set aside for
games of skill. Table tennis, rubber horseshoes,
ring games, etc., are used. A small charge is

made for each game.

Movies. One room is used
for the showing of movies.
Ten minute shorts and com-
edies are used.

Ghost Walk. The leader
with a flashlight leads the
group through a dark hall—

(Continued on page 449)
421

Recreation leaders will be interested
in the Hallowe'en program conducted by
a group of school officials in MaywoodI
assisted by
workers. A carnival of this type pro-
vides an enjoyable program for a school
or other local organization. and in ad-
dition it may. it desiredI be a,means
of raising money even with low charges.

local recreation

Games tor Hallowe’en

ALLOWE’EN is a festive
H occasion— a time for

having fun and lots of
it! So here are a few typical
games to help make your
party a merry one. You will
think of many others, and
you may wish to add to your party program games
and activities of other types such as musical games
and mixers, elimination marches, and other activi~
ties which will make the party more enjoyable.

Pre-Party Game

Haunting Handshake. Each member of the re-
ception committee wears a paper bag on his right
hand. As the guest arrives, the paper bag is put
on his right hand and he is asked to shake hands
with every person present while wearing the bag.

Active Games

Skeleton Names. Equip each guest with a pen-
cil, a card, and a tag with a. string. Each player
writes or prints his name in skeleton form on the

tag, omitting the vowels and marking a dash in.

place of each vowel left out. For example, New-
ton Clay would write N-wt-n Cl-y. Allow about
ten minutes for everyone to go about the room
and from the skeleton names write down as many
as possible. The player securing the largest num-
ber of names in the time designated wins. Where
people are well acquainted have them select names
of fiction characters, actors, and well-known
individuals.

Catch the Broomstick. From ten to thirty or
more players may take part in this game which
requires a large space. The players, who should
be numbered consecutively, stand in a circle or
semi-circle. One player stands in the center of the
circle with his index nnger on the top of the
broomstick, which is perpendicular to the floor.
Suddenly he lifts his finger from the broomstick,
at the same time calling the number assigned to
one of the players in the circle. The person whose
number is called must run for-
ward and catch the broomstick If
before it lies on the floor. If
he fails, he must return to his
place in the circle; if he is suc-

422

National

For these game suggestions we are in-
debted to the Playground and Recrea-
tion Commission of Cedar Rapids. IowaI
which each month issues a practical bul-

letin on parties and social recreation
under the title. "Party of the Month.ll

you wish additional suggestions
for Hallowe'en games and activities
you may secure them by writing the
Recreation Association.

cessful,— he changes places
with the center player. This
game will be very enjoyable
if the action is lively and the
player who is calling the
numbers gives them in un-
expected order, sometimes re—
peating a number that has recently been given,

then calling a few in consecutive order, and later

skipping over a long series.

Magic Keys. Players form a large circle and'

extend left hands toward the center. An extra1
player with a group of keys runs counter-clock-f
wise around the inside of the circle with his right?
hand extended. As he runs he takes one of the],
players by the left hand, and he in turn takes an-..
other player. The line continues to grow until the
leader drops the keys, when all scramble back to
their places. The player who finds his place last
starts the next line.

Black Cat Hunt. Before the game hide a num- '

ber of paper or candy black cats all over the”

.house. Divide the players into pairs and announce,

that the witch has lost all nine of her lives and,
that good luck will be the reward of any couple;
finding all of them. The first couple to locate nine,
of these small black cats will be adjudged the:
winner. _

Quiet Games

Graveyard Telephone. Arrange the players in a,
circle. The leader whispers a brief item of news;
to the first player, who whispers it to the second}
and so on around the circle. No repetition or re-l
statement is permitted—each person whispers itj.
but once to his neighbor. The last player states;-
aloud the news as he heard it. The departure from?
the original is amazing. If the last player’s stato
ment does not satisfy the players they may cor
rect it, going backward around the circle, until t1
original statement is made by the first player.
statement pertaining to Hallowe’en might be use
such as, “A crow cawed, the cat meowed and thre 4;

black bats fiew into the room};

Catty Contest. Pass a 51??

of paper with the contest wr
ten on it. Each is given
(Continued on page 450)

Pupil Adiustment
Through

Recreation Activities

There is need, says this educator, tor
a greater appreciation oi the value oi
the proper use of recreation activities
in the total deveIOpment oi the child

By LESLIE W. IRWIN
The Laboratory Schools
University of Chicago

r‘ 0R MANY YEARS justilication of the recreation recreation in preparing youth to make wise use of

' movement in America has been based larger
I on increased amounts of leisure time and
.zraining for the wise use of leisure. These basic
.iacts have been made so obvious that it is now
tlmost universally accepted that youth should have
proper training and guidance in the field of rec-
l'eation. However, those interested in the promo-
ion of recreation have often seemed content with
ustifying the need and establishing activities with-
)ut giving due attention to the pr0per use and
’ralue of recreation activities in the total develop-
nent of the child. If the recreation movement is
'0 hold the ground it has gained, greater emphasis
must be placed on the efficient use of recreation
.ctivities in the total educational process.

\Vithin the schools both teachers and adminis-
'rators in general have
“ecognized ' the need for

 

More and more children are finding enioyment in
the marionette classes provided in many schools

leisure time. However, it has been found through
experience that the mere inclusion and conduct of
a wide variety of recreation activities in the school
program is likely to be insufficient when consider-
ation is given to the objectives of the educational
program. The teaching of a wide variety of rec-
reation activities does not necessarily assure the
best use of leisure, although there may be a
greater tendency toward the proper use of leisure
as a result of having learned and participated in
the activities. The emphasis on leisure, recreation,
and recreation activities has been such that .their
relationship has not been clearly established.
That is, the relationship has not been established
to the point where it is readily apparent that
the proper use of definite recreation activities
' will contribute to the
total development of the

. s -- --' "1
o. I.» a. i  .

.,i !

Courtesy Sioux City, Iona. l'.'fvar!mt-:zr .1 Recreation

423

424 PUPIL ADJUSTMENT THROUGH RECREATION ACTIVITIES

pupil of which the wise use of leisUre is a part.

It is granted that in past years it has been neces-
sary to emphasize strongly increased leisure and
training for the worthy use of leisure in order to
stimulate the development of recreation. At pres-
ent there is a need for a clearer understanding of
the contribution the various recreation activities
should make to the development of the pupil. As
a majority of the schools have accepted the re-
sponsibility for recreation, at least in part, it
naturally becomes a phase of the total educational
process. Since the change in aims of general edu-
cation in which greater emphasis is now placed on
preparing youth for life, the social and emotional
development of pupils has been given a prominent
place in the school program. In fact, the school
program is now designed to 'deveIOp the whole
child, and this makes it necessary to give serious
consideration to all activities within the school
curriculum which may influence the life of the
pupil. Schools are in need of means‘ through
which the proper social and emotional develop-
ment of children can be assured. Recreation ac—
tivities are of such a nature that they may be
used as a means of providing the medium through
which better social and emotional development
may be obtained. Furthermore, such activities can
assist in providing a medium for the normal
growth and natural development of each boy and
girl in all phases of the school program.

Through a study of the present status of recre—
ation activities within the schools, it at once be—
comes evident that emphasis should be placed on
their value in helping the pupil to adjust to the
total school situation as well as in training for the
wise use of leisure. Although it has often been
stated that recreation activities do assist in adest-
ing the child within the school it is seldom clearly
shown just how this occurs.

For many years the schools have recognized the
existence of individual intellectual differences and
capacities of pupils. Throughout educational
literature there is an abundance of information
pertaining to the recognition
of individual intellectual ca—
pacity. Methods and proced-
ures have been devised to
care for these intellectual
differences. Equal attention
has not been given to indi—
vidual social and emotional
differences and capacities of
children. Perhaps this has

ln order to realize a plan of close coor»
dination between intellectual develop-
ment on the one hand. and social and
emotional on the other._emphasis must be
placed by the academic teacher and the
school's recreation leader alikeI on the
actual and specific contributions which
each has to make toward a type of prog-

ress designed to prepare youth to make
the best possible adiustment to adult life.

been due to the fact that formal classroom situa-
tions are not particularly conducive to individual
social and emotional expression. The proper or—
ganization and conduct of recreation activities
provides situations where it is possible to give the
proper study and attention to the recognition of
individual social and emotional capacities.

Educators and parents are aware of the many.
social and emotional stages through which even
the normal child may pass. These stages and re—:.
actions are so varied and complex they are beyond
classification. They may vary' from extremely,-
pronounced cases to those barely discernable in.
the normal individual. The duration of the stages
may be for only a short time or for many years.
Seldom is it possible to determine clearly the un-
derlying cause. Few teachers or parents in the?
past have exhibited the proper tolerance and un—i
derstanding of these emotional changes in the child ‘-
that so materially affect development. Often botli,
parents and teachers become over-concerned about.
the slightest deviation and in an effort to do the;
utmost for the child they are apt to prolong the,
trouble and in many cases do permanent harm.“
The school organized for intellectual development]
alone is not in a position to deal successfully with!
the complex problems of childhood. Properly? I
conducted recreation activities provide an outlet:
for emotional expression which is often helpfulsl
to the child in passing through any stage, even'
though it may be only a slight departure from the!
normal self. Group activities of an informal
nature are extremely important for both the pre—.
adolescent and adolescent pupil.

The nature of recreation activities is such that
desirable results may be obtained through their.
use more readily than in academic fields. Partici-
pation in physical activities especially places pupils :
in situations where emotional control is easily lost;
Continued participation under skillful guidance:
teaches the child to control the emotions under.‘
stress. Similar situations are not readily found in.
the classroom. A program of recreation activities

within the school provides

  
  
 
   
   

the opportunity for pupils t9
become accepted members of
the group. The differences in.
intellectual capacity among
pupils immediately indicates
an obstacle which is often
hard to overcome especially
by those in the lower ranges

PUPIL ADJUSTMENT THROUGH RECREATION ACTIVITIES 425

i of ability. Satisfactory adjustment within the

I group is generally recognized as a prerequisite to

J efficient progress even in academic fields. Recrea—
tion activities give the child the opportunity to
gain satisfaction and confidence through accom—

- plishing something well. Frequently this is the
only means by which some pupils gain acceptance
within a group.

In late years there has been a tendency to con—
duct remedial and corrective work in certain
phases of the school program. Apparently little
attention has been given to the effect this may
have on the personality of the pupil. There is
more or less of a social stigma attached to being
placed in a remedial or corrective group that often
outweighs any possible value received otherwise.

'i Removing pupils from the regular normal routine
' of the group often creates and accentuates social
and emotional problems. Most activities in the
irecreation program tend to submerge any sug-
‘lgestion of a variation from the normal. It is one
place in the school where all children may par—
'1 ticipate and be regarded as normal individuals.
The development of character and personality
iis an objective of education. The actual means by
'which these qualities are developed have been
Ilargely concomitant with the total school program.
IiThat more direct methods have not been univer—
j sally employed is due perhaps to an absence of
,Zpositive ways of accomplishing the task. Attempts
.ihave been made to list, analyze, and define charac-
i‘ter and personality traits. Such terms as loyalty,
lhonesty, fair play, cooperation, initiative, leader-
“Ship, courage, obedience, and sportsmanship have
'jbeen used in one way or another in dealing with
| the development of character and personality.
However, educators often fail to make them
readin understandable for the pupil either in
lltheory or in actual practice. There is a lack of
jagreement as to the meaning of these terms among
adults. The lack of understanding is perhaps
greater among children. Through the' abundance
of situations directly related to character and per—
sonality in recreational activities there is ample op-
Sortunity to clarify and demonstrate the meaning
[if these traits through actual practice. If the pro-
)er recreational activities are not provided in the
ijschools as they are organized today there is little
nope that the true meaning of character and per—
,onality traits will ever become clear to the child.

Recreation activities usually challenge the in-
erest of even the dull'child. Progressive groups in
he field of education are attempting to give the

 

 

   
 
  

1

 

greatest consideration to the interests of the pupils.
It is possible to capitalize on recreation as another
medium through which child-interest may be de-
veloped in the total school program.

Teachers have come to realize that it is ex—
tremely difficult to force children to comply with
the routine behavior associated with the school
program. That is, it is difficult to force them to
comply with certain routine behavior and obtain
desirable results. Recreation activities assist in
obtaining routine behavior without applying the
element of force. Results obtained through rec-
reation may be made to assist in other phases of
the school program in eliminating the'necessity
for the application of force.

As experience has shown that the recreation
program within the school can be made valuable
in securing pupil adjustment to the entire school
situation it naturally follows then that the next
step is in bringing about a close coordination be—
tween. intellectual development and social and
emotional deve10pment. One should not be sacri-
ficed for the other but they should supplement
each other.

There is a nation—wide movement among depart-
ments of education to change, modernize, and im-
prove the school curriculum. Educators are trying
to work out new programs to get away from the
lockstep of subject matter and to think in terms of
major fields or areas of education. One of the more
recent classifications of these fields of learning is
found in a bulletin of the Louisiana State 'Depart-
ment of Education in which five broad, major
areas are designated: Social Studies; Language-
Arts; Science—Mathematics ; Creative Arts and
Recreation; and Practical Arts. It is significant
to find recreation listed as a major area in the
field with creative arts.

Besides suggesting activities in the field of phy-
sical recreation, the Louisiana report offers out-
lines showing how manipulative and building arts,
the fine arts, music and drama may be correlated.
It suggests how more-and more education will '
think of the total school program———all the sub-
jects and activities—as educating for leisure
through the creative and recreative arts.

It is a hopeful sign for recreation that a few
forward—looking curriculum planners have the
conception that recreation belongs not to a subject
nor a department, but that the whole school pro-
gram can contribute and function not only to the
learning processes but to the enrichment of life.

Camp Fire Girls Honored

Ill-Z UNITED STATES

Forest Service on

August 16th honored
the Camp Fire Girls of
America for their valuable
conservation work
throughout the country by
dedicating to them a rec-
reational area in the Ara—
paho National Forest of
Colorado. This area com—
prises more than 965,000

acres of unspoiled wood—

land with sparkling lakes, spectacular canyons,
beautiful alpine flowers, and mountain peaks more
than 10,000 feet high. The permanent camp of
the Denver Camp Fire Girls is located in this for—
est by special permission of the Forest Service.

 

426

In I938 Camp Fire Girls surveyed the conser-
vation needs of their various communities and
developed twenty-tive-year plans for saving
treesI conserving birds and flowers. reclaim-
ing city dumps and transforming them into
playgrounds. These long-range plans are
now being carried out with the aid of local
conservation specialists. So outstanding have
been the results of this nation-wide activity
that the United States Department of Agri-
culture. through its Forest Service. last sum-
mer paid tribute to the young tree-savers by
dedicating a whole forest area to them.

Dedication exercises
were held in the forest
where a bronze memorial
tablet was placed on ar
ancient boulder at Arapaht
Viewpoint, about eight)“
miles northwest of Den.
ver in a rugged section oi
the Rocky Mountains. Th;
tablet bears the inscription
“Dedicated to the Cam}
Fire Girls whose work 
forest conservation ha;

helped direct the attention of American youth t;
the importance of their country’s trees and soil.’I

Dr. Arnold Minnig, president of the Denve:
Council of Camp Fire Girls, who presided at thc

(Continued on page 456)

"Still-Hunting"

I. N 0U WILL have to admit
Y that this San Joaquin
Valley is a cultural
li wilderness.” That remark
l was made by a professional
artist who had recently
come to our town, and my
mind went racing back
» along a trail of hobby ad-
" ventures.
|' Henry and I had great
l sport in the Rockies when
i I we were young, hunting and fishing—genuine hob-
bies. \Ve married and went to live in a prairie
t village. Henry lamented, “Nothing to hunt but
jackrabbits !” I added, “No trout streams to flick!”
Possessing optimism we took up a sport that we
l, called still-hunting—searching for others’ hobbies
and encouraging their development. We made
friends and had fun with them in rehearsing and
presenting programs of music and drama. Visit-
ors from other towns exclaimed, “What surpris-
ing talent for a farming commtinity!” Though
we hiked up hills, gun-hunted occasionally, and
'vacationed along the Little South Poudre and in
lEstes Park, we were getting more genuine pleas-
lure from the hunting' that brought richer living
than we had before with rods and guns.

We moved to Visalia, then a boardwalk town
in the San Joaquin Valley in California. And a
new group of friends began to put on programs.
Again audiences were astonished at the unusual
ability in a small town. Talent needs only to be
discovered—and talent-trailing is‘jolly good sport.

‘ One day an almost blind neighbor said, “I have

such a longing to write a history ofACalifornia!
But how can I?” Well, we had, in a way, pledged
purselves to help folk realize dreams. Eventually
The Land of the Golden Poppy was published
locally, illustrated with block prints by a young
artist neighbor.

Henry and I, who were doing a little writing,
decided that to study with others might mean ad-
 vancement. Miss Mitchell, one of our teachers,
' was writing a history of Tulare County, and we

.nitiated her into the technique of still-hunting
which consists in listening in on conversations and
:watching the play of emotions evidenced in voices

 

A novel and fascinating sport
which consists of searching for
other people’s talents and hob-
bies and of encouraging their
fullest possible development

By GRACE SHULL EICHMANN
Visa'liaI California

or by facial expressions
when certain activities are
mentioned.

Still-Hunting Brings
Results

In February, 1936, six
would-be writers and two
musicians met at our home.
We reviewed Brande’s Be-
coming a Writer, criticized
some original poems, and
organized the Creative Arts Fellowship. The
members still-hunted, and after two months there
were ten writers and eight musicians who formed
a separate unit to study musical history, work for
artistry in interpretation, and to produce musical
compositions.

At a party and potluck dinner in the charming
Mitchell garden on a June evening, the writers
read original short stories, poems, and plays. The
Music Unit led the Fellowship in singing. Our
first club season had proved satisfactory.

During the summer we listened, watched and
queried, “Creative Arts, who P” The first answer
was Earl.Venables who had illustrated the locally
published Land of the Golden Poppy. He and
his wife became skillful still-hunters, and in Octo-
ber a unit was organized for the study and prac-
tice of Arts and Crafts.

Each unit worked out a definite eight—month
program for study and for discussion and criti-
cism of productions. Each unit grew and de—
veloped skills. But deciding that the varied inter-
ests needed to be more closely allied, they formed
a Fellowship Council. It included the president
and a coordinator from each unit and three life
members selected from the initial group of eight.
These lifers are coordinators at large, working
'fOr the whole. They will be replaced upon perma-
nent removal from V isalia.

Unit coordinators report the plans and progress
of their units to the Council and report- back any
Council plans or suggestions. The payment of one
dollar annually in any unit entitles to member-
ship in any or all units. Several are members of
two units.

The Fellowship holds three joint meetings

427

428 “STILL-HUNTING ”

annually—man inspirational dinner meeting with an
outside speaker in September, quite formal; an
invitational guest night and exhibit in’March;
and a jolly garden party and potluck dinner for
members and their families early in June.

The Arts and Crafts Unit decorated the hall
and put up a surprisingly varied and excellent
display for the first annual guest night. Each
president gave a talk. Numbers by the Music
Unit and original productions by the writers were
presented. '

The following week a member of the Fellow-
ship read in a western magazine, “One can pro-
duce a genuine work of art in arranging a bouquet
or planning a garden if he observes the founda-
tion principles of art—background, composition,
center of interest, balance, rhythm, and unity.”
You can imagine our next move. Quiet, indi~
vidual explorations began to locate lovers of gar—
dens. In the fall a Floral Unit held meetings in
the afternoons; other units had to meet in eve-
nings because few men are free at other hours.
The garden enthusiasts met in lovely gardens, in
being-made gardens, or in wooded retreats where
they reviewed and discussed articles, exchanged
information, demonstrated floral arrangements,
and drank fruit juices and ate sandwiches. The
gardeners always insisted upon refreshments!
At the June garden party in Mooney Grove, our
County Park, the new unit decorated the tables.

The second anniversary guest night was held in
a larger hall, but the exhibits were crowded. The
Floral Unit provided exquisite bouquet arrange—
ments. The Writers’ Unit gave awards to high
school students for the best prose and poetry
submitted. The Arts and Crafts Unit gave awards
to high school students who exhibited block prints.
Each unit, as at every joint session, contributed
program numbers.

At a meeting of the Writers’ Unit given to the
study of how to write dramas, a writer SUggested
that the Fellowship needed a Drama Unit. Soon
a young man who had been writing and directing
plays for his eighth grade pupils headed a group
of adults preparing to stage plays.

The garden party was en—
joyed again on a June eve-
ning at Mooney Grove, under
the lovely arched branches
of the oaks of Tulare. The
Drama Unit provided a
humorous illustrated mono—

logue.

"Many communities have turned to their
own resources. and people to their own
talents; some are making notable contri-
butions to folk culture. Music. drama.
and toll: games are the cultural media ~—
the means of selt-expression."—Btuce L.

Melvin in Youth—Millions Too Many?

At Our Third Guest Night

The third anniversary guest night was ob—
served in our Civic Auditorium—the only build—
ing in Visalia large enough to house the exhibits
properly and hold guests and members com...
fortably. The Drama Unit that had previously-
presented “The Playhouse”—an entire evening’s.
performance—gave a one-act play. The Music
Unit assisted.

The Floral Unit decorated the auditorium with:
graceful bamboo and flowering acacia. Using de—.
signs from Orient and Occident, they supplied”
charming floral arrangements for the display;
tables besides having two long tables of their own;
-—one for flowers, the other for an artistic display
of gourds of many shapes, sizes, and colorings. 

The vocal and instrumental contributions of the
Music Unit were outstanding. Their exhibit tablg
held old manuscripts on parchment, original com-i
positions, and scrapbooks, one with clippings of
forty years. There was also a line book of 
man and Italian librettos and an Italian violin!

dated I743. ,"

The Arts and Crafts Unit displayed their own!
pottery, weaving, hooked rugs, woodcraft novela'
ties, a designed costume, oils, water colors, etch;i
ings, engravings, and miniatures painted on ivory.

'Again there was a high school section with ribbon

awards.

The writers table held nationally known publi; l
cations carrying contributions of nine members,l
a display of rejection slips, and our own bi4l
monthly magazine, The Twig. For this publicaigj
tion each writer types enough copies of her con;
tribution for each member and one to keep on file,
Assembled in folders that are decorated by out 7
of the artists, the contents are read at the next-
meeting, criticized, and possible markets sug-T
gested. The Twig idea was suggested by the city'
librarian, one of our members. '

   
  

The scope and excellence of the exhibit astonlf‘
ished our guests—wand some of the Fellowship a;
well! A business man told a member of the Col-
lege faculty, “That program and exhibit at thf
auditorium was the greatest
eye-opener I ever had}
Our county librarian 
“I am sure this Creativ}
Arts Fellowship is the mos:
valuable movement inaugu
rated in Visalia in the las=
ten years.”

"STILL-HUNTING" 429

Some of the Results

Study and practice of these cre-

’ ative arts based upon identical

principles has produced harmony

of thought. Families have been unified in fas-

‘cinating leisure-time activities. There have been

' financial as well as cultural and spiritual gains.

Three members. once lonely souls, now rejoice in

friendships that are remaking their lives. One

said, “I didn’t know it was possible to have such
friends. I have always lived alone.”

l A writer’s first acceptance brought a check for
‘fifty dollars. A greater reward was the jubilation
l of her husband and two young sons. Seven other
;’ acceptances by standard magazines have followed.

l A charming ranch woman, one of the initial
lgroup of eight, has had many poems published.

Moreover, she has been the inspiration of the
1 Floral Unit. As its president she initiated a gar-
den contest for elementary pupils. In this con-
test judges take handicaps into consideration. The
1; first year sixteen children contested. A little
 Spanish girl won first award for flowers; a boy,
l twelve years of age, won first for vegetables. The
gardens were the only loveliness in. sight at those
Htwo homes, save for the beauty of cleanliness.
- This second year fifty—two children did acceptable
lgardens. The Writers’ Unit offered'the young
Jgardeners awards for stories of their gardens and
{were delighted with results.

 

l Invited to join,as a musician, another of the
.“Fellowship said: “If you don’t mind I shall in-
Iterest myself in writing. That will be genuine
“recreation.” We liked her work and urged her to
Ibtry for publication but she protested, “Oh, no. I
.ijust write for fun.” Yet the hrst work published

by a member was her poem, “Contentment” in
Driftrtrind.

“Because I have known the regal

Simplicity of queens

And walked with poets,

I am content.

“Because I have trod marble stairways
, That sweep upward to halls

\Vhere music is enshrined,
l I am content.”

i

No doubt she was referring to the time when,
Eas a tiny girl, she met Tennyson in his dark In—
;verness cape, and he gallantly presented her his
Inoutonniere; and to the time she and her lovely
l sister played their violins before EurOpean royalty.
' This woman never mentioned to the Fellow-
lihip her delightful friendship with Roumania’s

"Talent needs only to be dis-
covered. and talent-trailing
is a jolly good sport."

poet—queen, nor showed her jewel—
led brooch, replica of Britain’s
crown, that she had received from

the hand of Queen Victoria. She
had told the Music Unit, by request, of student
days in old Vienna.

“Now though my roof be lowly,” she concludes, “if from
My home the color—pageant of the hills

Stretch evermore,

I am content.”

Our first artist—discovery, Earl Venables, is the
vitalizing force of the Arts and Crafts Unit, and
his home is the art center. He can devote only
Sundays and evenings to his hobby, yet we marvel
at the exquisite effects he gets in color, light,
shadows—even when he paints by electric light.

Given an enlarging lens, Mr. Venables uses a
five—gallon can and other odds and ends to make
an enlarging outfit with which he secures remark—
able results. An expert still—hunter, he found the

. delightful woman who paints miniatures on ivory,

out on a distant ranch in an adobe house. He
discovered Sarkis Beulan, engraver, who has had
engravings in many leading magazines. He was so
happy over the Fellowship association that in
friendly appreciation he has helped the younger
artist perfect his etching technique. Mr. Venables
brought in another professional artist—Christo—
pher Seiberth, the only artist honored by a one—
man exhibit in San Francisco of paintings of our
Big Trees, the Sequoia giganteas.

The personnel of our Creative Arts Fellowship
is most diverse. Ages range from high school to
more than Biblically allotted years. Occupations
are ranching, teaching, preaching, waiting tables,
mechanics—why enumerate further? We are
united in the purpose to discover and encourage
native ability and to promote appreciation of the
Creative Arts.

March II, 1940, was the date of the fourth
annual guest night. The event again registered
progress. The Floral Unit reported two hundred
ten pupils in the fifth and sixth grades had signed
up as garden contestants.

This achievement proves that life in an Ameri-
can town need never be commonplace. We be-
lieve that our Fellowship will prove a vital factor
in dispelling “wilderness” atmosphere in Visalia,
now a town of 10,000. We are convinced, also,
that any town can duplicate our cultLIral gains, our
fun and our friendship.

After High School —Whal:?

tion has become of in-

creasing importance not“
only to the young people
leaving high school and to
their parents but also the
communities in which they
live. Because of the difficulty
of seCUring employment, the fakes stock of
shorter hours of work, and
the greater need for educa-
tion beyond the high school,
the youth need the assistance of organized society
much more than in the past, and throughout the
country many attempts are being made by local
groups to meet this problem.

For several years a group of citizens in our
town has felt that the greatest need of our young
people beyond high school age has been more ade-
quate recreational opportunities. Several groups,
especially among the young men, have formed
organizations of their own to carry on social and
athletic activities, but because of the lack of per-
manent leadership they have not functioned sat-
isfactorily. Three years ago there was a movement
to organize a Boys’ Club and the matter was
brought before the town. At the annual meeting
it was voted to appoint a Boys’ Club Committee
to make a study of the problem. After a careful
investigation this committee reported that the fa-
cilities for a recreation program were reasonably
adequate but that proper leadership was lacking.
It recommended that a leader or director be ap-
_ pointed to work under the supervision of one of
the existing town committees.

The chief obstacle to the execution of this plan
was a financial one, but last spring a public-
spirited woman who realized the need generously
offered the necessary financial support. A con-
ference was held with the director of recreation
from the Massachusetts State College and he as-
sisted materially in making plans for the program.
Valuable .advice was also secured from the Na-
tional Recreation Association.

One of the most important problems was the
selection of a town committee to assume the spon-
sorship of the project. For several years the
School Committee had rented the high school

430

IN RECENT years this ques-

By J. HARDING ARMSTRONG
Superinl’endenl’ of Schools
Wesl’boro, Massachuseth

A Massachusel’l’s communi’ry which has a
papulafion of abou’r 5,000, considers
the needs of ifs young peeple befween
fhe ages of eighteenl and fwenfy-five,
loca

makes fhe es’rablishmenf of a recrea-
f'ion program its immediate obiecfive.

gymnasium to various groups:
and had shown a definite in-j
terest in the development of;
a recreation program for the
young people. Furthermore;
most of the activities would‘
have to be carried on in 
high school as it was the only}
building in town suitable for?
the purpose. For these rea-‘y
sons. the School Committh
was asked to spoonsor the;
project and it heartily agreed to assume this re?
sponsibility. 

Under the authority of a recent law permitting
school committees to expend public funds for con-fi
ducting recreation programs for youth and adults,
the committee voted to appoint a director of rec;
reation to organize and conduct the program},
After a careful search for qualified candidates,”
Willard G. Patton, who had had much experiencgl
in extension work of various kinds, was selected ‘
for the position. Soon after the opening of schools:
in the fall he began his work under the general!
supervision of the superintendent of schools with”
the understanding that he was to develop a proé
gram primarily to meet the needs of the youtlg‘
between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. 

Mr. Patton writes as follows regarding the
organization and growth of the program:

“In order to devise intelligently a program th§
would meet the needs of the greatest numb (1
without confiicting with activities already pr '3
vided for or interfering with those initiated a1
carried out by the young people themselves, tln
director made a thorough survey of the activiti ‘
and interests of the 675 young people living '
Westboro who came in the age bracket suggested.

resources. and

'C

   
   
   

._..,..._'h-.——..—-—_.—.

Learning the Facts
The sunrey included the recording of the o ‘-

cupations and interests of the various age groul
It was interesting to find that of, these youl .
people 105 were the more or less transient gror
of employees at the state institutions where
adequate program is provided for them. Aboa

seventy morewere attending school, leaving ap—
proximately 500 for whom a program should be

AFTER HIGH SCHOOL——WHAT? 431 ‘

developed. Our records of
participation show that we
have reached in one way or
another 235 of this group.
More important for our pur-
pose was a knowledge of the
recreational habits and de~
sires of these young people,
and our questionnaire gave
us this information. By summarizing their inter-
ests and checking their free time we were able to
plan a program suited to the choices of the ma-
jority. Before starting the program, however, a
.registration .was conducted and all were given an
sopportunity to indicate the activities in which they
lpreferred to participate.

ll Since physical and social activity plays such an
limportant part in one’s physical and psychological
‘condition, and the high school is well equipped to
I provide for such a program, the major activities
are of this sort. Periods are devoted to basketball,
informal games, dancing, swimming, and bowling

l {

"Public recreation programs. both physi-
cal and non-physicall must be greatly ex-
panded. They have been regarded too
long as a public service in the luxury class.
The contribution they can make to a
higher level of physical fitness and to the
preservation of morale in times of stress
must now receive general recognition."—
From the American Youth Commission.

 

(the latter two outside of the
school building). Four teams
of young men play two bas-
ketball games each week. A
growing number play bad—
minton, shuffieboard, box
hockey, table tennis, and
other games during the per-
iods alloted for such activity.
Dances have thus far attracted from forty to sixty
young people on Saturday night. Eight women’s
and four men's bowling teams compete weekly at
the bowling alleys. A women’s group swims regu-
larly at the Worcester Y.V‘V.C.A., and a men’s
class at the Worcester Boys’ Club.

Some prefer mental recreation and growth. For
these, two programs are being provided. One, a
lecture course in social hygiene supplemented with
reading assignments, and another a Town Meet-
ing of the Air discussion group.

Others prefer to learn to use their hands skill-

(Continued on page 449)

Courtesy Lo: Angela: Public School:

Recreation for Older People

LTIIOL’GII Los ANGELI-ts insisted that people
A do not grow old in Southern California, they
did have to admit that recently a group of
youngsters all over 5 5 years of age hnally gave up
playing their schedule of regulation hardball games !
But it does seem to be a serious fact that people
in Los Angeles who have enjoyed tennis, dancing
and swimming seem to continue to enjoy these
pursuits throughout the years.

Horseshoes and roque courts, of course, are
standard equipment on playgrounds, and at the
larger centers in Los Angeles it is the standard
practice to designate a corner of the playground
for men of middle and old age where they may
gather to enjoy these and others of their favorite
games. About a dozen groups meet weekly for
old-fashioned dancing. The playground and rec-
reation department provides a place and, occasional
supervision when necessary, but the older people
manage their own parties, finance their own music,
and call their own dances.

Twelve'years ago the president of the Los An—
geles Playground and Recreation Department is-
sued an invitation for lonesome people to attend
a meeting at one of the playgrounds. Out of this
meeting has grown the unique club which meets
every Sunday afternoon at one of the larger cen-
ters for concerts and other social entertaining.
And then there are garden clubs at several play-
grounds and stamp clubs and clubs for deep sea
lishing enthusiasts, all of which are composed
largely of elderly men
and women.

members of the group are very active in the hik- -
ing stage every Sunday, and they have enjoyed
the week-end camping period during the year.
From the Northwest, Minneapolis reportsv,‘I
rooms for checker clubs and card clubs at all of,
their permanent centers. Out-of—doors shufHej,
board and roque and horeshoe courts are pro:
vided. For older women, there are mothers’ clubs,
card clubs, sewing clubs, and needlecraft clubs. ft
The Bureau of Recreation in Pittsburgh finds
bocci a favorite game for older men during the,
outdoor season. At one of the centers a group of;
forty to fifty Italian and Syrian men from 40 to"
70 years of age play bocci from mid-afternoon
until the center closes at 9:30 at night, taking
time opt only for a meal. During the indoor sea-
son several centers have made large rooms avail-l
able for older men, where they play cards and:

'checkers. r' ‘

l

In Detroit, the Department of Recreation is
conducting an impressive program for older peo-y, |
ple. Cards, checkers, horseshoes and old-time,
dancing (two old-time dancing groups have been
in existence for more than 15 years) are standbys:

are also stamp collecting groups, public speaking}
groups, camera clubs, fly casting clubs, lawn bow1—;

_ ing groups and gymnasium groups, all of which

are conducting programs which attract particu-
larly older people. At one center a special swim-
ming instruction class is being conducted for blind
persons, many of Whom
are older people. As

St. Louis asked right
away, “How old are older
people?” About a third
of the 500 members of
the Missouri Walk Ways
Association in St. Louis
are people from 40 to 70
years of age. The pro-
gram of this Association
is mainly hiking, but it
also calls for'many types
of nature study groups,
geology groups, horse—
back riding, game parties,
and camping. The older

432

This article does not attempt to tell all that is
being done for the recreation of the older people
of the countryI but it does show what some cities
are thinking and doing. It is interesting to note
that more is being done. in these cities at least,
for older men than for women. Several cities have
made the comment that these men may come to
the recreation centers to get away from their own
homes or the homes of relatives where they feel
they are in the way or a burden. Since the ma-
jority of them come regularly, the recreation they
enjoy there is probably one of their tew social out-
lets. lt present population trends continue, there
are sure to be relatively more older people than
younger in the future. and recreation departments
will soon be called upon to provide much more in
the way of program, facilities and leadership for
older people than they have done in the past.

strenuous a game as vol- ;

here as they are in many other cities, but there,
i
l

leyball is played by a
good many older people
following their regular
gymnasium classes.

In recent years model
building has attracted
many of the older men.
Model power boats, model
racing cars, and model
airplanes seem to be the
most attractive projects
in this part of the pro-
gram. During the Inter-

(Contitmcd on page 458)

Fun

" HEN FUN comes to
Wthe family” under-
standing, sympathy,
tolerance, and general co-
operativeness may become a
vital part of family life. The
spirit of play is Conducive to
these values which are the
results of sharing and par-
ticipation in activities. Par-
ents no longer order their
I| child to a room to be happy
but rather suggest that he or
ll she participate in some activity which brings satis—
ii faction and happiness.
 In the past, we were cautioned “Be the labor
Ilgreat or small, do it well or not at all." When the
ispirit of fun comes into the family a completely
réversed philosophy takes hold. It might be ex-
' pressed as “\N’hatever is worth doing is worth
I doing” (even though badly). Thus a single member
l iof the family’s plan may be a sufficient reason for
l.the rest of the family to join in the activity because
usharing in the enterprise becomes as important as
 any end result. This kind of family becomes con-
titth with not as good as father could do it but good
u lenough for the family, no matter who does it.

This spirit of fun in the family makes for many
humorous situations which may help to deve10p a
sense of humor in all members. After the visitors
. had left a mother was reprimanding her son for
' just looking and saying nothing. She hnally said,
‘ “If you would just open your mouth and say any—
. thing it would be better than just standing there

looking like you were dead.” The boy brightened

:Ip and said, “Gee, mother, could I say ‘hello,

ighooey’?” This mother’s answer to her son could

)e the means of real understanding and fun in the

family. \Vhen fun comes into the family humor,
the spirit of play, appreciation of one another’s
alworth, a sense of belonging are likely to occur and
'l1e aids to democratic and creative family life.

I, But what are some of these activities which
Ipring fun to the family? Let me propose that
“Fun comes to the family when” the entire family
5 willing to recognize, promote, and provide fun
1ctivities and equipment. The first of these is the
- l Jermanent recreational equipment that can be

l!

'l
H

By HARRY D. EDGREN
Associate Professor of Physical Education
George Williams College

"Firelight on happy faces. open books
to be read and discussed. hospitality
with its wealth of riches given and
receivedI silly famin jokes and .niclt-
names. laughter. music, holidays and
leisure hours together—they spell the
magic of the true reason for home.”—
Sara J. Wardell in Parents’ Magazine.

Comes to the Family

botight or made and which
can be played in parlor, base-
ment, or backyard. A good
family slogan is buy a good
family game for Christmas
and thereby contribute a
game each year to the family
kit or game box. These games
become a common denomina-
tor for all members of the
family. Witness what the
game of table tennis, check-
ers, crokinole, and Chinese
Checkers have done in family play. These games
afford opportunity for good wholesome competi-
tion in games of skill where every member of the
family has a chance to excel.

Another possibility is table activities following
the evening meal. Oftentimes just sitting and lis-
tening to a favorite radio program makes for
good conversation of the entire family following
it. Jack Benny and Charlie McCarthy are now
making this contribution to many families around
the Sunday evening meal. Maybe today we could
resurrect the idea developed years ago in the
south when on the back of the oilcloth was im-
printed the game of Nine Men’s Morris, suggest-
ing that following the meal the dishes were
cleared, the tablecloth turned over for family
play. Maybe today we could add to this the family
story or a few good jokes when the entire family
is present.

The family party nights are today making a
contribution in the lives of some families. Here
the family creates and develops a regular party
including trick stunts, the family paper, family
singing, and social games with an occasional eve-
ning in which another family in the neighborhood
is brought in to share in the fun. Here different
members of the family change their responsibili-
ties from week to week. Some weeks father cares
for the refreshments and mother the family sing.

Family hobbies is another area in which fami-
lies can share a common interest. The collecting
of maps, photography, and musical instruments
can become family hobbies as well as individual
hobbies.

(Continued on page 455)

433

The Park of the Future

HE DUNES State Park of In—

diana is the state park of to—

morrow in the world of to—
day. Contrasted with neighborhood parks where
people come for an hour or drive by to see the
trees and flowers, the Dunes State Park is a place
people want to visit for a day or longer because it
provides the essentials for such a stay. If tourists
are to spend the night, they must have a place to
sleep; if they cook, they must bUy groceries; if
they are driving, they need gas; and all of these
facilities are provided at the Dunes.

Situated between the cities of Gary and Michi—
gan City, the park contains 2250 acres and boasts
a beach frontage on Lake Michigan. Judging
from license plates, a majority of its daily patrons
are natives of Chicago, which is forty-four miles
away.

We visited the park one Sunday with some
seven or eight thousand others. At the gate we
paid ten cents admission and drove on to the park-
ing area which was crowded, but not uncomfort-
ably so. Just to the left of the park entrance is
the camping ground for tents and trailers, and
farther back in the forest is the camping ground
of the Boy Scouts of the city of Gary. A carload
of campers must pay a twenty-live cent fee for
overnight camping privileges, with wood and
water furnished.

Over three miles long, the beach is generally
covered with bathers for almost its entire length—
a significant fact to be noted by city officials who
think a quarter mile bathing beach is adequate.

Dune Creek enters the lake beside the bathhouse, '

forming a pond about a quarter acre in area. It
includes a natural wading

By HENRY S. CURTIS
Ann Arbor. Michigan

surprising, however, because the
prices are reasonable, on the
American or Eur0pean plan. Be—
cause of the location of the hotel, the windows
either look out on the lake or across the rolling
dunes.

The restaurants and bathhouse are part of an-
other large building adjacent to the hotel. There
are counters for sandwiches and ice cream, and a
dining hall where plate luncheons and excellent
full course dinners are served. Of course, there
is also a store where you can buy film, postal
cards, and the curios which seem to have a uni—
versal appeal for tourists.

Perhaps the most distinctive feature of the
Dunes is the hiking facilities. The hiking trails .7
delight enthusiasts, for in one section a hiker is
immersed in a primeval forest Of pines, cedars.
and hemlocks, and later he walks among bass-
woods, ashes, and elms. The Dunes area also con-
tains great varieties of birds, swamp howers, and
sand Howers for the self—styled nat‘uralist to study.

There are ten trails which twist about the
dunes, winding to the t0p of some of the lofty ‘.
ones which are nearly two hundred feet high.
Hikers always pause on the dunes for a pano— |
ramic view of the lake and shore, looking at l
Michigan City on one side, and on a clear day,
Chicago, thirty-five miles across the lake in the
opposite direction. The most amazing feature of
the trails are the three “blow-outs.” These are "
places where the wind is carving the dunes into
new forms, sometimes concealing an entire forest
till only its topmost branches appear above the
sand, and other times uncovering a forest buried

by the same mighty grave ,

 
 
  

pool, much more attractive
to children’s feet than the
concrete pools usually fur-
nished by park authorities.

Directly on the shore
are the park hotel, res—
taurant, and bathhouse.
Usually it is impossible to
walk into the hotel and
secure an immediate reser-
vation, for often all of the
rooms are reserved two
weeks in advance. It is not

434

"The Indiana state park system was establish-
ed to provide areas where the public might
forever have the opportunity to observe trees
and plants, birds and wildlife, in the setting
for which nature intended them: where the
visitor might exercise the primitive urge to
tramp mile after mile through forested areas,
along streams and over hills; where he might
cook his meals over a campfire and sleep under
the stars. . . . Water plays an important part in
the recreational value of Indiana's state parks.
each of which has a stream flowing through its
borders or contains a lake—natural or artifi-
cial—to increase its values."—Myton L. Rees
in American Planning and Civic Annual.

digger years ago. j

After visiting state parks f
in surrounding states, it'
can easily be seen why the
Dunes is a park of the
future. None of the others ,
are providing hotels, cot—
tages, restaurants, grocery
stores or gas stations. In—
stead, by the side of the
large parks is a mushroom
growth of private develop—

(Continued on, page 453)

   

i Recreation and Physical Education for the Blind

l in: IMPULSE to play is uni-
_' Tversal. Blind children want
to express their play im-
pulses just as much as do nor-
mal children. Because they are handicapped it is
important that the growth and development of
blind children be as near normal as possible. Since
their vitality is below normal playground and phy-
' sical education are' necessities, for play not only
.helps them overcome fear and helplessness, but it
’ also teaches alertness, courage, and skill. A good
recreation program will do as much to develop
"blind children into normal personalities as any
'iother activity carried on by the school. Such a
I program, however, must be under the supervision
lof a leader who thoroughly understands recrea—
jtion and who can apply its principles to this hand-
uicapped group. This leader strives to deve10p a
ldesire for active, robust play and for habits of
j health and freedom of motion, all in the light of
,the general objectives of physical education, for
’these must not be forgotten.
. Many of the schools for the blind offer broad
i‘programs of recreation. A good recreation pro—
tgram in these schools includes athletics, indoor
- and outdoor games, dancing, reading and story-
ltelling, pageants,, music, drama, and social activi-
: ties. Through participation in these activities,
Jlblind boys and girls deve10p into normal personali-
ties. After graduation they enter the world with
lla feeling of confidence rather than a sense of in—
feriority common to many blind persons.

 

 

Major Sports and Games

Most people believe that the blind must follow a
more or less inactive, sedentary life. They do not
get around easily, but many of them enter the
most active sports. Playing by themselves, blind
lboys can enjoy all the major sports. They can
qfompete on an equal basis with sighted opponents

  

in wrestling, swimming, and track and field. Other
games, however, are played with a few variations
'lfrom the official rules.

In softball, for example, the

{ball is rolled on the ground to
Lhe batter. He hits the ball and
l

 

'uns to a teammate who is
:alling him on first base. This
teammate, who must have some

l

By CHARLES BUELL

Physical Education Instructor
Washington School for the Blind

In supplying games and puzzles at
cost. the American Foundation for
the Blind is performing an exceed-
ingly practical service. The Foun-
dation may be addressed at IS West
Sixteenth Street, New York City.

vision, acts as guide for the
base—runner. Another variation
used on large fields is calling
the batter out when a fielder
catches a rolling ball.

Football is played under regulation rules with
the exception that the ball must be put in play on
the word “hike.” If all the players are blind, the
runner takes the ball from the ground between
the center’s legs and plunges forward through the
line——no end runs, reverses, or passes are per-
mitted. Although this is a rough game, the play-
ers never receive serious injuries.

In track and field the blind compete in the
clashes, high jump, broad jump, pole vault, shot
put, and tug-of-war. The latter two events offer
no handicap to the blind. In the dashes the runner
follows a taut wire or runs toward a whistle
blown at the finish line. A good blind athlete will'
make better records using the latter method. A
blind boy can be taught the correct form for the
running high jump, running broad jump, and pole
vault. Through constant practice he can learn the
right timing for the. take-off. A ringing alarm
clock, placed on the take-off and removed just
before the jumper hits the take-off, will aid the
sightless athlete in his practice jumping.

Although blind children learn to swim easily, it
is a little more difficult to teach diving to this
group than to normal children. Since most blind
boys and girls express no fear of the water, some
schools have formed swimming teams to compete
with public schools.

Blind boys often become proficient wrestlers.
In fact, two of the best high school wrestlers in
the Northwest are students of the Washington
School for the Blind. The wrestling teams of
Overbrook, Oregon, and Washington have made
outstanding records in competition with public
high schools. The blind do not expect to be shown
favoritism or given any advantage over their op-
ponent; they go on the mat on equal terms, and
from then on, it is a question
of who is the better man.

The California School for
the. Blind develops teams in
track and field, football, and
basketball. Competing in the
playground leagues of Berke-

435

436 RECREATION AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR THE BLIND

ley, the track and field team has been particularly
successful, and the football and basketball teams
have won about half of their games. But,far more
important than victory, the players have learned
hne sportsmanship and made acquaintances and
friendship with normal boys. This is a significant
factor in institutional life.

Indoor Games

Indoor games are of equal importance'in recre-
ation for the blind. At the Washington School,
each year ladder tournaments are conducted in
checkers, chess. dominoes, and table tennis. Since
children will grow tired of cards and checkers,
other games must be introduced to maintain in—
terest. These games must be suitable for use by
the blind and partially sighted.

Pin ball games, with money attachments re-
moved, have given much enjoyment to students at
the \Vashington School for the Blind. A major
league baseball game is in almost 'constant use. By
removing the glass from the top of the game, the
boys are able to determine the position of base
runners. Tournaments and pennant races are
organized.

Touchdown, a dice football game, is the lead—
ing pastime of the fall months. A play is called
before the dice are thrown, In a short time the
boys commit to memory the chart of gains and
losses which accompanies the game. The boys
represent college football teams and organize con—
ference races. The prediction of college football
scores has become very popular. Each Monday
during the football season, twenty evenly matched
games are selected from the schedule of the fol—
lowing Saturday. The boys hand their written
predictions to the recreation leader. This contest
has not only deve10ped some experts but has
stimulated interest in radio football broadcasts.

During the winter months a game called Bas—
ket is played frequently. This game is constructed
in the form of a small basketball court. A ping-
pong ball rolls around on an uneven surface until
it settles into one of twelve holes. The player then
operates a lever prOpelling the ball toward the
basket. Klik ball is another popular pastime. A
cue is used to push balls up an incline marked
with numbers. Since a mechanical device prevents
the balls from rolling to the foot of the incline, a
blind player can read his score. The boys at the
\Vashing‘ton School for the Blind have worked
out a system to conduct an entire track and field
meet on a klik ball basis. The students also enjoy

.ships between the sexes. Social dancing, too, cor:

playing the gee—whiz horse racing game. In this
mechanical game, a different horse wins each race.
One player acts as banker, giving odds and col~
lecting chips. Since no money changes hands, they
can learn safely that betting is usually a baci
investment.

There are many other games which are playeg
in leisure hours. During the year interest wan};
ders from game to game, so one cannot predicf
which game will next come into p0pularity. Ovei
a period of time the Washington School for thg
Blind has spent fifty dollars on games, but it ha;
been a good investment. When the students oq
cupy their leisure time playing games, there arj
few discipline problems. More important, how}
ever, these girls and boys are learning the game;
enjoyed by the public school child. When thesj
students leave the school for the blind, they an-
able to enjoy a social evening anywhere, becaus
of the training they have received.

v;

Co-Recreation

Naturally, co-recre‘ation has entered the picture .
At the Washington School for the Blind, baseball
skating and croquet are the most popular outdoo
activities. Under the supervision of the recreatioi
leader the girls and boys play baseball and croqug
and skate together. These mixed group activitie
have aided the development of normal relation

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
  

ducted under wholesome conditions, has grez
educational and social value. The girls and boy
are encouraged to attend informal dances whei
they may learn to dance with little embarrassmeir
and young people of the community are invite
to attend their dances. When these blind boys an
girls graduate, they can confidently take the:
place on any dance floor. {i

All of these activities point to the primary ail
of the recreation program: to develop in the blin
child a desire to play, and freedom of actic,r
which will go with him the rest of his life. Tl'.
schools for the blind strive to teach the childrcl
to express themselves normally and naturally, a
that they will be better equipped to enter societ?
By teaching activities that may be carried on
leisure time, the school not only reduces min;
delinquency in the present; it presents a prograii
that will round out a future fuller life, bringir.
more happiness to the blind in adulthood.

“The joy of happy play contributes greatly tr
ward making life worth living for the blind."

School Boards Are l-lumanl

quently regarded by
physical education di-
rectors and recreation
workers as being hard-hearted, hard-headed, slow

, moving, tough—to—crack outfits! It is alleged that
, board members eat, sleep, occasionally attend meet-
i ings, vote, go to church, and smile. Their favorite
expression is supposed to be “No! No! A thou—

SCHOOL BOARDS are fre-

l sand times no l”
I You 'may yourself be a member of a school
:! board some day, so suppose we consider this
I much-criticized group.
' School boards have definite responsibilities.
.. They control public monies voted for the educa-
h: tion of the youth of the community. This simple
‘ fact sometimes staggers individuals who are con-
tinually pleading with school trustees to include
in the curriculum all the numberless fads and
fancies that float around. People who have re-
lsponsibilities have critics, and it is up to those
'i who criticize to present their side of the story in
ill a clear, practical, and intelligent manner if. they
expect to make any progress.

Let us take, for example, the question of the
l use of school buildings by community groups for
recreational, cultural, and adult educational pur-
lposes. Suppose the school board believes the
school should not be used by the community.

\Vhat is the best way of tackling the question?

 

l Lesson 1
Find Out

\Vhether local groups could use school build-
ings if they were available; if they ever tried to
use them and, if so, what approaches have been
made in the past.

Suppose we find that sev-
eral groups desire to use the
lbuildings: then we go on to

 

 

 

| Lesson 2
l Avoid
ll Making the whole issue a
‘ personal one; antagonizing

people by calling them unco-
l operative and narrow-minded,
 and criticizing organizations

By STANLEY ROUGH

General Supervisor
Montreal Parlcs and Playgrounds Association

It you are planning to use your schools
as community centers the first require-
ment is the consent and cooperation of
the school board of your city. What is
the best way to approach this body and
what preparatory steps should be taken?
Mr. Rough discusses this problem in a
humorous but at the same time prac-
tical manner. And perhaps you will
have a better understanding of school
boards after you have read his article!

because they don’t sud—
denly get “all steamed up"
over the question.

Lesson 3

More Questions

Find out if various groups are using school
buildings; if not, if they are interested. If they
are, are conditions satisfactory? Have they any
suggestions ?

This information can be secured by sending out
a questionnaire to everyone who is remotely in-
terested in the question. It will take considerable
prodding before you get the questionnaire back.
It will be interesting to note that those who have
the most to gain and have done the most complain-
ing are usually the slowest to respond. You will
now have a fairly good idea of what the situation
is and whether it warrants calling a meeting of
those interested. Many a good meeting has turned
out to be a wake, and a good project, the corpse!
Don’t invite too many mourners!

Lesson 4
Calling a Meeting

From your questionnaire answers you will see
that there are three groups:

Those that say everything is fine; those that say
the school board is not meeting them halfway;
those that are interested in the question from the
community angle but have not the need to meet
in schools.

Groups 2 and 3 will attend the meeting called
to discuss the whole question but group I, the
preferred group, will not want “to do anything
to endanger the fine understanding between the
board and our executive.” They will climb on
the band wagon later if
things go right, so keep a
place for them.

Lesson 5
What to Avoid at This Meeting

A good “tree-er” as chair-
man. He is an individual
who smells a good idea from
afar, runs it up a tree, and

(Continued on page 451)
437

uSinging America”

HE HEART of a coun-
Ttry, it has been said,

is to be found in its
music, and Augustus D.
Zanzig has now given us
in his Singing America a
deeper, keener insight into
the lastingly lovable- songs
which express America’s
diversified cultures. Here in 120 songs and
choruses is a symphony of the living America
which stretches from pole to pole and coast to
coast.

This comprehensive variety'of informal music
has been gathered from the folkways of every
nation and race which make up the new world,
and is arranged to be sung in homes, schools, rec-
reation centers, clubs, camps, or wherever folk—
music is loved. Much of it is fully substantial
enough for concert programs, but all of it is within
the reach of any singing group.

In addition to some Stephen Foster songs and
other American compositions, there are thirty-
two distinctively American folk-songs of pioneers,
railroad workers, cowboys, seamen, farmers, cot-
ton-pickers, road-builders, ballad-makers, moth-
ers, lovers, hddlers, and funsters. One of the
songs is a folk “blues.” Here too are all too few
of the beautiful and powerful folk-hymns of the
white people of the South as well as several well-
loved Negro spirituals. Wherever singing America
lives, works. loves, and prays—there Mr. Zanzig
has found her songs.

Many of his selections are associated with other
interests and activities, such as hiking, paddling,
rowing, horseback-riding, dancing, play-acting,
festival-making, and observances of Spring, Eas-
ter, harvest-time, Christmas, or New Year’s.
There are singing dances, and five songs perfectly—
suited to dramatization, as well as several others
that suggest “acting out.” Twelve sterling hymns
and chorales are given, and seven new-old carols
as fresh and as miraculous as a Christmas rose.

Singing America includes also thirty beloved
folk-songs of other American people who have
come here, or whose parents or earlier relatives
came here, from lands across the sea : from Czecho-

slovakia, Denmark, England, Finland, France,,

Germany, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, the Nether-
438

"Singing America." compiled by Augustus D.
Zanzig for the National Recreation Associa-
tion and published by C. C. Birchard & Co..
Boston. may be secured through the National
Recreation Association. 3|5 Fourth Avenue,
New York City. for twenty-tive cents. This
book contains all the vocal parts and explana-
tory notes. A book of accompaniments has

been published which is available at $|.00.

lands, Norway, Poland,
Russia, Scotland, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland and
Wales. That all these songsh;
'could be gathered right;
here in this country of; l
ours is itself a distinc-jf. I
tively American condition;
It betokens in the happi-ji
est way possible the warm respect for personality,
and the wide tolerance that are at the very hearti
of what is meant by democracy. In that sense all}
these songs are also America singing. In singing,
them we can all realize the universal kinship that!
is so happily possible in that inner realm of human).
nature whence folk—singing comes. The book con—j,
tains also the best of our patriotic songs. 4'
The title Singing America refers also, however,
to the songs and peoples of Canada and of they
other Americas. Four songs are from Canada}.
fourteen from nine Central and South American;
countries, and one Christmas carol from our own;
fellow-citizens, the Puer’to Ricans. The rapidly;

growing interest in Central and South Americane
music makes these folk—songs especially welcome

J

at this time. 5

When given in modern public entertainments}
songs such as these are usually made to lose much;
of their native verve and simplicity, but in this‘
book they are presented just as they are sung in;
everyday living in the solitude of the vast prairies‘l
and high plateaus as well as in the spontaneously;
festive society of village streets and patios, and in‘
fields, boats, and small white adobe dwellings. We
have in our own Southwest seen such dwellings,
through the usually open doors of which one
might see very little furniture but almost always “
a picture of the Virgin or a saint, and a guitar.f
As evening drew on, there would surely be a"
strumming of guitars and singing that was as free!
and intimate as the air we breathe: not aroused’j
and managed in a large group by a song leadte
but spontaneously done by individuals or a smalli
group here and there. Yet the very pervasive love:
and genuineness of it, luring everyone who heard-
it into its expressiveness, seemed to make it as
fully a “community singing” as any song leader
could dream of.

(Continued on page 448) . .l

 

Sottball' Captures a City

years of age can play on the
softball teams sponsored by
the Playground Association of
l Fairmont, \Vest Virginia. And so among the
l membership of 1,270 players are doctors, lawyers,
, city oflicials, clerks, merchants, laborers, mechan-
ics, miners, the Mayor, the sheriff, railroaders,

' bankers, teachers, and truck drivers.
'. The game was introduced on the playground
-eight years ago; it has attained such popularity
l that now there are fifty—six organized teams par-
:ticipating in sixteen leagues which play on all
'available athletic fields and even in vacant lots. A
,l visitor strolling through our city’s streets any eve—
pl ning of the week between the hours of six to eight
.lwould have difficulty finding any play space not
loccupied with enthusiastic players enjoying the
igame to the fullest extent. Our South Side Park
lis an example of the maximum use of every foot
of ground. There each evening three games are
lplayed at one time, with sixty players participat-

l EVERYONE FROM six to sixty
l

 

 

. ;ing and hundreds of spectators watching and en-‘

.ljoying the games as much as the players. Several
y'helds are used to equal advantage.
: From the first week in May until the last week
llof August talk about softball may be heard in
practically every home, industry, and business es-
. tablishment in the city. Joking between players
land fans and good-natured rivalry are the order
{of the day. For this widespread interest the local
mewspapers come in for their share of credit. One
llocal sports editor in particular makes a point of
|.featuring the activities of the players and of re-
cording their feats, though they may be only
‘mediocre. This has much interest for the players
who greatly enjoy seeing their names in print.
Contributing greatly to the secret of success in
the game's development are the facts that the
' program is organized on a businesslike basis and
that it is practically self-supporting and all wish-
ing to play are given an equal opportunity.

Organization and Opera-
tion of Leagues

I Our leagues are organized
1 as follows: the City League,
j composed of eight teams and

.200 adult players; the Rock-

'l

By PATRICK A. TORK

Director of City Playgrounds
Fairmontl West Virginia

FairmontI West VirginiaI a community of
25,000 people nestled among the beauti-
ful hills of the Monongahela ValleyI is
alive with softball activity. Mr. Tork,
who is the director of the city's play-
grounds. tells how this has come about.

ing Chair League, with six teams
and 180 adult players; the Lame
Duck League, consisting of six
teams and 180 adult players; the
Pop Time League, made up of players thirty
years of age and over, with four teams and 100
players; the Junior League for boys up to nine-
teen years of age, with ten teams and 200 play-
ers; the Midget League for boys up to fifteen
years of age which consists of eight teams and
200 players; and finally the Baby League for boys
up to twelve years of age, with eight teams and
200 players.

The City League is our fastest league in which
players with the most highly developed skill par-
ticipate. It is composed of eight teams sponsored
by various business houses. A small league fee
paid by the team is used to pay the league umpires
who receive a dollar per game and to purchase the
balls used in the games. The league plays- on
Monday and Thursday evenings, and the schedule
has two halves. A play—off is conducted if neces—
sary to determine the city championship. Last
season the City League was composed of the fol-
lowing teams: the Owens team, made up of em-
ployees of the Owens Illinois Glass Company,
who are incidentally the league champions for this
season; the Knights of Pythias team; the Brown
Derby; the Brunswick Recreation; the Corner
Store; the Cleaners and Dyers Company whose
team has come up from the Lame Duck League;
the Simms Roofers; and the Moose, sponsored
by the local Moose Lodge. A trophy is awarded
to the league champion by a local business concern.

The Rocking Chair League is organized along
similar lines except that it is a step lower in regard
to the ability of the players and the speed of the
league. It is composed of the following teams,
each sponsored by a merchant: the Cavaliers;
Adams Office Supply; Colasessano ; and the Quick
Shoe Repair. The National Guards sponsor a
team, as does the W’est Penn Public Utility Com-
pany. This league plays two
halves, and it has a small en-
trance fee which defrays the
expenses of the league, such
as the pay of the league um-
pires who receive seventy-five
cents per game. The league

' 439

440

plays two evenings a week.

The next league is the
Lame Duck League and
the same caliber as the
Rocking Chair League in
the ability of the players.
It is composed of the Big
Boy Cola team, league
champions, the Varsity
Lunch, and the 'American
Legion. Many of the play-
ers are sons of the Ameri-
can Legion members as

SOFTBALL CAPTURES A CITY

"Most of our popular games and sports have
a long history of play in this country as
well as in other lands. SoftballI however,
has taken its place among our great sports
in less than forty yearsI with the greatest
impetus coming within the past six years.
Claims and counterclaims have been made con-
cerning its invention . . . and absolute proof
as to the inventor of the game and location
of the original game is not available. Per-
haps because the present game of softball
evolved from humble variations of its parent
gamel 'baseball. there was never a time and
place that softball was born. Like 'Topsy,'
it iust grew."———Artbur Noren in Softball.

This interchange of jokes
is a pastime in itself.
One player from each
of the Lame Duck and
Rocking Chair Leagues is
permitted to join _the teani
of 'the Pop Time League;
and City League players
must wait two seasons be%
fore they become eligible,
The purpose of this is to
keep out the fast players-

9
A player can play only;

well as Legion members

themselves. There is also a VV.O.\V. team made
up of members of this lodge; the Bellview team
from a city suburb; and the Pennzoil team.

The champions of the Rocking Chair and Lame
Duck Leagues meet in a final play-off at the end
of the season to determine the city’s champion—
ship for this branch of softball. A trophy is
awarded the winner which is ’paid for by the fees

of the two leagues.

The Father Time League

Three years ago it was discovered that there
were a hundred or so men in the city who had
been old baseball players, softball players, or
former athletes who, because of their age, lacked
ability to compete with players in the City, Rock*
ing Chair or Lame Duc1< Leagues, but who still
had the desire to play softball. To meet this need
we organized what we called the Pop Time or
Father Time League. To play in this league a
man must be thirty years or over, and the players
must not be considered good enough to play in
any of the faster leagues; otherwise they are
assigned to these organizations. This league,
which has proved very popular, is made up of the
Fairmont Cleaners, the Red Tops, Jimmie’s
Lunch, and the City Police sponsored by the
local fraternal order of police. Membership of
the police team is made up solely of police-
men, and they are probably the most enthusi-
astic of all the teams in the Pop Time League.
Their play is not always “according to Hoyle,”
but their interest and enjoyment are never
dampened! To them each evening’s softball game
affords much pleasure and exercise. In this par-
ticular league there is much repartee between the
players. Even the citizens on the street, having
read about the results of the games, poke consid-
-erable fun at the police when they meet them.

within one team during
any one half. This prevents a monopoly by thé
better players and results in great participation}
Players in the lower leagues can always move 111;;
to the faster ones without release from tean}
managers, but when moving down such a release“
is necessary. Players changing from one team tq'
another in the same league must secure a release,»
All of our organized leagues have arbitratioric
boards with three members to handle any disputes '
and misunderstandings. The boards are made ui: 1
of disinterested citizens.

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   

Among the Players

Among our players are many who have gradu':
ated from the Children’s leagues into the fast
leagues. One player who started as a pitcher fort
the East High Playground midget league team;
several years ago is now a member of the Illinoi;
City League championship team and is considered
the best softball pitcher in the state. At the pres
ent time the ages of the oldest members range
from fifty—five to fifty-nine years. The manage;
of the Knights of Pythias team has had eigh

I‘
a

years of service. 3

Girls as well as boys have their teams, anC
there are twenty Negro teams participating whoss.
activities are climaxed with tournaments. Twé
large transfer companies have organized their?
truck drivers into teams who play evenings afteiyl
their day’s runs and on Sundays. This coming

season they will enter the playground leagues.

Sponsoring Organizations

Many different types of organizations havg
sponsored teams, among them three lodges, thi
Salvation Army, three department stores, tw:
public utilities, the National Bank, and the Newsf
paper Publishing Company. Industrial organiza

(Continued on page 453)

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

‘ UBLIC Forest Areas. There are 300,000
acres in southwestern Vermont in National

i Forest,areas. A map recently issued by the State
Forest Service shows forty-one separate and dis-
tinct state forests and parks within Vermont ap-

l proximating 73,000 acres. The dedication exer-
cises 0f the Vermont Federation of \Vomen’s
‘Clubs, at its forest plantation near \Veston, shows

‘the trend of public interest.
I

I Rest Recreation in a Park. According to Dr.
iL. D. Cox, New York State College of Forestry,
Ithere are two forms of park recreational use—
: the active or intensive form. and the scenic ap-
j'preciation or rest recreation form. Dr. Cox says:
:(I) Do the people like to go to the park over and
[over again? (2) Is it beautiful?

“Forest Outings.” Just issued by the U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture, 311 pages with illustra-
Itions. Paper, 75¢.

-' Pittsfir’ld (llfassachusetts) State Forest is the
.lirst state forest in Massachusetts to initiate a
mature program. A nature trail and museum was
[started July Ist by Kenneth Howland, nature
Iguide. The program has been so successful that
[the State Conservation Commission is already
lplanning to enlarge the Museum and the railroad
as contemplating snow trains and nature trains.
Mfr. Howland, a Massachusetts State College sen-
nor, has been backed by an able advisory commit—
:tee of which Miss Sophie T. Fishback, Executive
{Secretary of the Girls’ League, is chairman.

 

 

A Bibliography of free and inexpensive nature
resource material prepared by Camp Fire Girls is
revised each year to keep it up to date. It may be
)btained free by writing the Department of Pub-
Iications, Camp Fire Girls, 88 Lexington Avenue,

ew York City.
l Poison Ivy Again. A. Hyatt \ierrill, in his new
book Wonder Plants and
Plant l/Voudcrs, says: “The
'best means of preventing
.l")eing poisoned by the vine
y lis to eat the young leaves in
‘ early spring.” Ben Solomon,
Editor of Youth Leaders

Digest, has turned over to

Just as we expected. Cap'n Bill's Nature-
Grams are receiving a very cordial wel-
come from our readers. One recreation
worker writes that he is making a card
catalogue of them. Be sure to send your
contribution to Dr. William G. Vinal, De-

partment of Entomology
Massachusetts State College at Amherst.

us correspondence on the subject. H ygcia, pub—
lished by American Medical Association, makes-
the statement: “Eating poison ivy leaves will not
prevent poison ivy poisoning.” Dr. Leon H. \Var—
ran. in temporary charge of Dermatoses Investi-
gations, National Institute of Health, says: “At-
tempts to immunize against poison ivy dermatitis-
by eating green shoots and small leaves of this
plant are not without danger, inasmuch as the
virulent principle is excreted in the urine and
feces. A modification of this method consists of
the administration of the tincture of rhus toxico-
dendron in minute doses.” The concensus of opin-
ion is against eating poison ivy leaves.

Gettiug Smnmar Guests Out of the House. Two
self-guiding nature trails are enjoyed by guests of
the Loomis Estate, Adirondack, New York. On
the one winding along the shore, which features a.
variety of natural interests such as wild fiowers.
rocks, shrubs, ferns and galls, metal standards are
used holding labels typed on linen tags which can.
be changed readily as the season advances. For
the tree trail which leads up the wooded hillside,
hinged wooden signs are fastened to the trees.
The covers can be lifted to reveal the pictures and
information pasted on the inside. These trails
were made by C. Frances Loomis of the National
staff of the Camp Fire Girls with the advice of
Elizabeth McClelland, Director of Twin Lakes
Nature Museum, Palisades Interstate Park.

Garden Clubs chite'cuatca. Mabel Madden.
Supervisor of Community Activities, Cincinnati
Recreation Department, nature-grams the follow—
ing: Garden clubs have sponsored garden and
dower projects in twelve schools of the poorest
districts. The clubs-bonght seeds, bulbs, window
boxes, fertilizers, tools and other requirements.
Club members visit the schools and explain about
forcing Howers and bulbs
for the March Hobby Fair.
The classes of exhibits were
forced shrubs, forced bulbs,
hydrophonics (water cul-
ture), soil culture, terrari-
ums, and dish gardens. New
schools are asking to be

441

and Zoology.

442 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

included, the children are delighted, and the gar-
den clubs are rejuvenated. If any garden clubs
in your community have degenerated into f‘boring
lectures and delicious refreshments,” we suggest
that you try the Madden recipe. ‘

.Ilnother Berkeley Museum. This time in Mas-
sachusetts. Assonet Neck is a small rural com-
munity consisting of live houses and a shack. The
winter population totals tive and the summer
population seventeen. Dorcas Delabarre, Brown
University 1938, gave vent to her ambitions and
natural inclination by establishing a trailside nat—
ural history museum in 1939, and again had open
house in 1940. One hundred and ten visitors
crossed the threshold in one season. These transi-
ents enjoyed their visits to this salt river exhibit,
and in the meantime the daughter of a Brown
professor has been self-directing toward larger
fields. Would that every budding naturalist would
grab the dilemma by the horns instead of waiting
for Santa Claus to deliver a job!

Traveling Museum in Reading, Pa. According
to a nature-gram from Thomas W. Lantz, Super-
intendent of Public Recreation, the Department of
Public Recreation, City of Reading, Pennsylvania,
has a nature specialist traveling around to thirty-
two municipal playgrounds during the summer
playground season. In his automobile are poison-
ous and non-poisonous snakes in cages, an opos-
sum, bats, small alligators, bird charts, a squirrel,
guinea pigs, frogs, bats and salamanders. After
the material is taken out of the automobile a brief
discussion takes place. Conservation is empha-
sized. There is intense interest on the part of
children and adults who eagerly await the next
arrival of the traveling museum.

The Shady Tree Habit is an old family custom
for picnickers. Roadside picnic areas with tables,
trash baskets, fireplaces and a clear spring are on
the increase. When every state provides these
special areas along the wayside the problem of
littered highways may be solved.

“Conservation Excursions.” Bulletin 1939, No.
13, Federal Security Agency, U. S. Office of Edn-
cation. Any pamphlet that aims to take the child
out of the four walls into the natural environment
is worth noting. This 106-page book will help
give children a practical acquaintance with a basic
problem. Costs I 5¢ but is worth more.

Traveling Education Van. The Massachusetts
Conservation Council, the state branch of the Na—
tional \Vildlife Federation, operates from 66 New-

bury Street, Boston. Two young college students
have been traveling to boys and girls camps and '
to state fairs and adult organizations in Massa— .
chusetts spreading the gospel of conservation.

Vanderbilt Mans-ion, Hyde Park, New York, .
was opened July 29 as the Vanderbilt Mansion 5
National Historic Site. The most imposing part l
of the estate is the collection of 200 year old trees, I
which includes hemlocks, catalpa, European beech, '
and a giant ginkgo. Mrs, Dexter Cooper, the su-' I
perintendent, is the first woman SUperintendent of
a federal area under the National Park Service.

Babbitt Trailside M usemn. Mr. and Mrs. Lewis
H. Babbitt announce the opening of a trailsideg
museum at Gay Farm, Peter'sham, Massachusetts.

Garden Center. The Wheeling Garden Club]
maintains a garden center in the guest house at:
Oglebay Park. Joe A. Funk is the director. Gar-i u
den books and magazines are available to thei-
public. ‘A

“Science Observer,” the monthly publication of} .
the American Institute of Science and Engineer-l
ing Clubs, 60 East 42nd Street, New York City,-J
has many ideas for projects and other club activi-,
ties. 50¢ yearly. Special rates in lots of ten or}
more. ‘

   
   

Chinese Chestnut Trees resemble the American,
chestnut trees. The newly developed tree is “blight;
resistant.” A fifteen year old tree at Woodlawn)‘
Virginia, bears a half bushel of nuts a yearn:
Perhaps “we boys can gdchestnuting again.” The".-
Chinese trees are being distributed to soil con-,2
servation farmers along the Blue Ridge Parkway;
who wish. to start chestnut orchards. Why not
chestnut orchards for recreation?

N ew England Trails, issued by the New Eng--
land Trail Conference, aims to set forth newsy“
bits to hikers. The next issue will be the late fall?
edition. John H. Vondell, chairman, Amherst..-
Massachusetts. ' ,

“A..M.C. thite Mountain Guide.” New edi-.i
tion july, 1940. $2.25 plus 15¢ postage. Write;
the Appalachian Mountain Club, 5 Joy Street;
Boston. They hope to keep intact the new nicki
name of the White Mountains—“Fireless Hell.”

Connecticut lValh Book. The new edition con?
tains 144 pages and 23 ‘maps. 50¢. Connecticut:
Forest and Park Association, 215 Church Street,
New Haven, Connecticut.

Guide to the Long Trail. Green Mountaqu
Club, Rutland, Vermont. New edition just out.

(Continued on page 450)

Recreational Riding at Smith College

l, SIDE FROM the regular or-
" ganized riding classes at
l Smith College, there is
y'much interest and participation
in recreational riding. This
| phase of the sport has been worthwhile not only
bewuse of the fun element but also because of
its social value, for many lasting friendships have
been made through this activity. The Smith Col—
' lege Riding Club, which sponsors the program,
holds at least one weekly equestrian event in the
’ffall and spring seasons, and offers lectures and
rll movies on some feature of equitation during the
,lwinter months. Open to the entire student body,
ilriding has been made financially possible for a
lgreater number of girls, since the stable charges
“one half of its regular rate for a club ride.

',g The club, a branch of the Athletic Association,
‘lis a student organization under the guidance of
lthe Physical Education Department. The officers
“elected by the club are president, secretary—treas-
ilurer, and publicity chairman. Monthly business
meetings are held to draw up riding programs.
Although the events are offered to the college as
a whole, there are always one or two members in
lcharge who are responsible for all necessary ar-
lfangements and for the safety of the group dur-
.iing the ride. The publicity chairman informs the
Nicollege of the club’s program by notices on the
lbulletin boards, articles in the college newspaper,

l r.
'{l.1nd posters in conspicuous places.

l 'Tryouts for the election of new members to the

» club are held in November and May of each year.
Before a girl is eligible for the test, she must have
lgone on at least two club rides during the year.
lThe object of the tryout is to discover whether a
girl is capable of managing a group of riders on

l he road. This is an important factor because she

I will be entrusted with the safety of a group on
club rides if she becomes a member. A riding
linstructor and members of the i

' club put the candidate through
“various tests to prove her abil-
iity to walk, trot, and canter
with and Without stirrups. If
her riding is'satisfactory, the
{judges confer upon her capa-
)ility to use good judgment on

 

ln the hope that the program at Smith
College may be helpful in promoting
recreational riding in other colleges
and in schools. camps and similar in-
- stitutions. the organization and var-
ied activities of the Smith College
Riding Club are given in some detail.

By EVELYN JENNINGS
Assistant Professor

Hygiene and Physical Education
Smith College

the road. If the judges feel that
the girl is a good and sensible

horsewoman, she is accepted.

On Freshman Day, the first
Saturday of the college year, the
club officially opens its season with an exhibition
drill and jumping, followed by a freshman break-
fast ride the next day. This is the only ride dur—
ing the year which is not open to the entire
student body. Later in the fall a gymkhana affords
much amusement for both spectators and partici—
pants. The winter events include lectures on such
subjects as “The Forward Seat,” “Common
Sense Riding,” and “Care and Common Ailments
of the Horse.” This year the club used a sixteen
millimeter camera to take movies of common
faults in riding and their correction. This movie,
with another on slow motion jumping, will be
shown at later meetings. A Horsewoman Ques-
tion Bee meets with great enthusiasm in the win-
ter. Questions, about equitation, the horse, tack,
horse shows, and stable management are asked.
The girls are divided into teams, and every time a
student misses a question a point is scored against
her. The team with the lowest score receives a
prize. The most important spring feature is a
college horse show organized by the club.

During good weather a monthly moonlight ride
is sponsored by the club. With this exception, the
same type of ride is never repeated twice in the
same season of the year. When the number of
riders is too unwieldy for one group, a club mem-
ber is put in charge of each division to insure
minimum hazard on the ride.

Many Kinds of Rides Are Enjoyed

A number of rides used by the club were
greatly enjoyed by the students. The Long Ride
is a three hour ride over nearby trails and roads.
For a Breakfast Ride, the group rides to a suit-
able picnic spot not more than
a half hour from the stable.
There they enjoy an outdoor
breakfast cooked over an open
fire, and after the meal, they
continue riding for about two
and a half hours. The Supper
Ride is organized much the

443

444 RECREATIONAL RIDING AT SMITH COLLEGE

same as a Breakfast Ride, except that the longer
distance is covered before the meal.

Before the Moonlight Ride, an early supper is
served to the students in the club room, at the
stable so they can start at seven o’clock and ride
for three hours in the moonlight. An All Day
Ride is held in the early fall, or late spring, when
the weather is warm. The group rides for three
hours to a picnic spot beside a water fall. Then
they eat lunch and spend a few hours swimming,
wading, or just being lazy in the sun. Later they
return to the stable by a shorter route. For the
Overnight Ride, the group leaves in the early
afternoon, spending about three and a half hours
in the saddle. The horses are stabled at a nearby
farm or tied to a picket line while the girls stay
in the Outing Club cabins overnight. They start
home in the late morning and eat a picnic lunch
somewhere en route.

In a Scavenger Hunt, the riders are divided
into teams of six. Each group receives the same
list of articles which must be collected within
three hours. Each team must stay together, is not
allowed on the campus or in any part of the city
district. The permission of the owner must be
asked before private property is entered or any
article taken from the premises. If a team re-
turns late, an article is subtracted from its col-
lection for every five minutes passing before they
appear. The list should be composed of objects
small enough to be carried on horseback. Some
objects listed for our club were a high button
shoe, a pancake, an Indian head penny, a cowbell,
a gray bone hairpin, and a cow’s horn.

The riders are divided into two teams for the
Treasure Hunt. The clues have been laid out in
a circle so that a team will not return to the stable
by the route‘ on which it left. The teams are
started in opposite directions so the first clue for
one team becomes the last clue for the other. The
clues, with the team number on the outside, are
numbered consecutively on the inside so either
group will know if one has been missed. The
treasure is hidden on the stable grounds, and the
first group to find it, having gathered all the clues,
wins the prize. A box of candy, nuts, or fruit is
usually the award.

To take part in the Coffee Ride, the girls as-
semble in groups of four or five. They are told
that if they follow a marked trail they will come
to a place where coffee and sandwiches are being
served. If they lose the trail they miss the re-
freshments. Dots of white paint, or small squares

of white cardboard tacked to trees are convenient
means to mark the way.

The riders are divided into “hares” and
“hounds” to participate in the Hare and Hound
Ride. The hares, leaving the stable fifteen minutes
before the hounds, mark their trail with torn 
newspaper or corn. Corn is preferable because it ‘
does not litter up the countryside and does net '
blow away on a windy day. Although the hares ss'
must mark their trail every hundred yards, they".
may lay false trails at forks and intersections to
make the hounds ride a hundred yards in the
wrong direction. The hares are not allowed to:
go faster than a trot, and they win if they return?
to the stable before the hounds get within hailing
distance of them. ."

Whenever food, utensils or blankets are needed
for a ride, the person in charge transports them
in a car to the place where they will be used, thus"
eliminating. unnecessary luggage. As a guard to i
the safety of the riders, if a riding master is not‘ 1

I
l.
I

sure of the ability of a rider, he watches her in the
ring in order to make certain that she is properly
mounted before she is allowed to go on the ride.
One or both of the college riding instructors

always goes on any ride which takes place after
dark.

\

Horseback riding as a municipal recreation ac-
tivity is increasing in interest and participation.
Articles have appeared in previous issues of REC-
REATION telling of the riding clubs sponsored by
the Playground and Recreation Association of:
Wyoming Valley, the Union County, New Jersey,
Park Commission and other similar groups.

The program conducted by the Union County
Park Commission is a particularly active one and
one in which many individuals are sharing. Ac—
cording to a report issued by the Commission,
during the fall of 1938, 265 saddle horses were
ridden regularly over the bridle paths provided in j
the VVatchung Reservation and nearby area. .
Among the special events included in the 1937-3
1938 program were two moonlight rides, one tea
ride, one breakfast ride, seven gymkhanas, and the,
annual horse show to which much interest is at-,
tached. These shows have been held for over;
twelve years. Additional statistics include the fol-,3
lowing: 391 hours of instruction for private
groups, and 197 hours of individual instruction.
Fourteen Juniorgroups rode 2,989 hours during’
the season; six adult groups 391 hours. The total
participation figure for 1938 was set at 23,097.

 

WORLD

FOR THE second con-
secutive year, the Oak
Park Playground
Board has carried
through a twelve months’ handcraft program.
Nearly 3,000 articles were made by the children
alone from materials which included wood, compo-
sition. tin, raflia, leather, cotton, silk, brass, crepe
paper, clay, and soap. Hundreds of Valentine and
Christmas cards were made and sent to patients at
i the county hospital. In the adult sewing groups
I dresses. suits, winter coats, bedspreads, and rugs
u were among the more ambitious articles made.
HAll the articles were exhibited at the all-sports day
' program. It is the aim of the Board to keep cer-
j'tain objectives in view in planning the handcraft
“Jrograiiiz the educational value of the project;
.moderate cost; a minimum of tools and equip-
.ment; and, in the case of the younger children,
i projects which can be made easily and Cluickly.
Respect for design and color is stressed, and
originality and self—expression are encouraged.

 

Handcraft Program
in Oak Park

 

 

l
I
I

 

ji New Golf Clubhouse ON JUNE zsih 031?—
land. California, dedi-
for Oakland

' cated its new Lake
' Chabot clubhouse. a
’jkWPA improvement sponsored by the Board of
i..Playground Directors of Oakland. The main
“feature of the clubhouse is a lounge 42’ by 28’

 

AT PLAY

with cathedral ceiling. There are locker rooms,
showers, and lavatories in opposite wings for the
men and women, and an unusually well equipped
lunch room. A pro shop, a repair shop, and two
attractive porches complete the layout.

Green fees are as follows: week days, 50 cents;
Sundays and holidays, 75 cents; semi-annual
ticket, $18.00; monthly ticket, $2.00 and $3.00;
daily after 4:30, 25 cents.

BACK IN 1910 the
community of New-
ington, New Hamp-
shire, borrowed the
idea of community forests from Europe and es-
tablished the first one in the United States. Since
that time the idea has grown until present com-
inunity forests over the country number 1,500.
An estimated three million acres of forest land is
owned by cities. schools, hospitals, and churches,
chiefly in New York, Massachusetts, \Visconsin,
California, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and New
Hampshire.

Community Forests
on Increase

 

THIRTY-SIX leaders in
the community of East
and W'est Garfield
started “seeing
America first" by a bus tour of their own com-
munity. Sponsored by the Garfield Park Recrea-

Know Your Own
Community

 

Courtesy Oakland Board of Playground Directors

445

446 ll'ORLD AT PLA Y

tion Council. the tour included visits to public in-
stitutions, parks, churches. and playlot develop-
ments. They considered the problems of blighted
areas, rehabilitation of buildings, and ’useless
vacant lots. The All-American tour was con-
cluded with a reception in the recreation building
and the serving of refreshments.

Chambersburg Has Its First Hymn Sing——
A crowd of 2,500 turned out for the first hymn
sing of July in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania. The
get—together, which netted $78.65 for the Red
Cross, was organized by several church groups in
cooperation with the Department of Parks and
Playgrounds. Singers gathered at Henninger
Field where they were assisted by a combination
choir of 150 voices: The evening’s program in—
cluded mass singing of church hymns as well as
voice and instrumental solos.

Open-House at the Playground—When play—
ground directors in Los Angeles decided to ac-
quaint the public with their summer program, they
instituted a series of community nights at the
Wilmer-Garvey Playground. Citizens were in-
vited to a basket picnic and then attended a
special program planned and presented by the
directors.

“Park and Recreation Structures”——-So great
has been the demand for “Park and Recreation
Structures,” published by the National Park Ser-
vice, that the supply has been exhausted. There
are now available, however, reprints of four sec-
tions: “Picnic Fireplaces”; “Organized Camp Fa—
cilities”; “Signs”; and “Cabins.” These are avail-

able from the National Park Service, Washing-
ton, D: C.

A Park Department Riding Club—The Min—
neapolis, Minnesota, Park Board Riding Club,
which has a rapidly growing membership, has a
program consisting of regular riding lessons and
social activities such as supper and breakfast
rides, \viener‘ and marshmallow roasts, horse
shows, and movies of riding. A series of tests is
being given, and members will receive their rid-
ing pins at a banquet. Until recently all classes
were held indoors, and beginners are still urged to
ride in the ring until they have become thorough-
ly accustomed to the horse and saddle. A riding
trail has been laid out, and members are enjoying
outdoor riding every week. It is the club’s hope

that eventually it will have its own drill team and
possibly a class in jumping. Miss Hazelle Erick—
son, director of riding, has prepared a mimeo-
graphed bulletin, “Riding for Fun.” which con—
tains a few of the rudiments of horsemanship.

Rochester Concerts “Under the Stars”—

Rochester joined the rest of the symphony—con-
scious nation this summer with a series of “under-
the-stars” concerts each week. Fifty members of
the Rochester Civic and Philharmonic orchestras
were scheduled for the three weekly programs.
More than 5,000 persons can be accommodated on
the grounds of the Manitou Beach Hotel where ,
the summer concerts were held. Jose ItUrbi and
Guy Fraser Harrison were among conductors.

The Lions Club and Recreation—Increas—
ingly Lions Clubs over the nation are including
recreation services in the list of activities which "
they sponsor. For instance, the Club in Lawrence-
burg, Tennessee, has held its ‘second County
Hobby Fair. The 2,000 exhibits in the fair at—
tracted an attendance of over 5,000. The exhibits
included model houses and their furnishings,
pictures, dolls, airplanes. boats, trains, birds and {
animals. One enterprising school boy made a
“miniature set of farm implements. The Club at r I
VVeiser, Idaho, reported raising money to equip a ,
community playground by means of a minstrel i
show. Two hundred dollars was placed in the I
playground fund. By a similar activity, the Cerro ‘
Gordo, Illinois, Club made a profit of $80, which
was given to a special committee in charge of the
children’s program in city parks. Another project
in recreation was carried out by the Lions Club
of KCrmit, Texas. This group arranged for a
vacant city block to be set aside as a park and
playground. The Evanston, \Nyoming, Lions
sponsor a Boys’ Club, and they have rented the H
second floor of a building for the boys. Among i
the activities carried 011 in the new clubrooni are u
wrestling, boxing, ping-pong, and pool. i‘

Wider Use of Schools—Through a decision
of the Superintendent of Schools of Chicago, Illi-
nois, rooms in nine evening schools will be avail—
able free of charge for the use of social, civic and
patriotic organizations. The plan will be initiated
in the fall of 1940. '

An Unusual Hobby—Bryant Alden Long of
Hyattsville, Maryland, writes of a unique hobby

lVORLD AT PLAY

for the enjoyment of which approximately 600

people are banded together in what is known as
the E.R.A. (Electric Railroaders’ Association).
There are at least 1,000 more individuals in other
organizations or unafliliated. These “railroad

fans” take long excursions to historic, interesting

or soon-to-be abandoned electric lines, armed with
still and moving cameras to record the activities of
the fast fading traction era for posterity. At their
club meetings they diSplay their photo albums and
movies and scale model electric railway lines. Col-
lectors all, they accumulate time tables, trolley
literature, signs and fittings from old cars, trans-
fers and tickets. Oddly enough, there were almost
no such hobbyists in the past decades when a one-
time network of city and interurban trolley routes
flung their wires against the sky across entire
states. But now that the future of the traction in-
dustry is at stake and electric trackage has
dwindled to a small percentage of its former mile-
age, these enthusiasts have, grown in numbers by
leaps and bounds.

“Are You Having Any Fun?” -——- More than
500 citizens filled out and returned “Are You
Having Any Fun?" questionnaires, distributed by
the Associated Clubs of Woodlawn, Illinois.
To those who indicated recreational activities in
which they were interested club leaders sent a
second folder listing places where they might find
classes, sports, outings, games, arts, and crafts.
Thirty groups are listed and more will be organ-
ized if demand requires.

Backyard Playgrounds Are Boomed—«The
'Pittsburgh Post-Gazette has sponsored a utilize-
your-backyard contest to help keep children off
the streets and provide them with small play-
grounds to resemble larger places which are too
far away for safety. The plan involved the
awarding of prizes to the most attractively equip-
ped backyards upon which not more than $5 is
spent; those upon which more than $5 is spent;
and two-or-more-family cooperatives without
limits of expense. The use of all kinds of ma-
terial, even from junk piles, was permitted in the
building of swings, sandboxes, horizontal bars,
and “Goofy Golf” courses.

Increased trafhc fatalities among children in
Detroit drove members of the Recreation Commis-
sion and Department of Recreation to make
strong pleas for home playgrounds. Parents were

asked to write to the Department for instructions
I

447

r...—

Here’s the

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment .shoe. Write for complete infor-
rnation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

numonn cALK HORSESHUE co.

46l0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

 

in making teeter-totter sandbox combinations,
tether tennis, badminton and volleyball standards
for their backyard recreation centers.

Marine Study Hobbyists — The Cabrillo
:Beach Marine Museum of the Los Angeles Play-
ground and Recreation Department is attracting
women’s clubs, business men's groups, employees’
organizations, and school children to the study of
marine biology as a hobby. Many new specimens
were secured for the Museum in a recent expedi-
tion along the California coast sponsored by the
Recreation Department and the Los Angeles
County Museum. These exhibits are now being
classihed and prepared for display at the Cabrillo
Museum.

Mass Ping-Pong for Girls in a City High
School—The Progressive Physical Educator is-
sued by Phi Delta Pi tells of the playing of ping-
pong in the Cleveland High School, St. Louis,
Missouri. Tables in the lunch room are used to
accommodate the almost two hundred girls in
games of ping—pong. Nets and paddles are sup-
plied by the girls who own equipment. These girls
form a service committee which takes care of the

\

448 LILLIAN I). IVALD

Lillian D. Wald

1112 NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION re-
Tcords its appreciation of what the leadership
of Lillian D. \Vald in playground and recreation
programs has meant through the years. Lillian
D. 1Wald was one of the early pioneers. She her-
self radiated strength and happiness and good
cheer when she willed that others might enjoy all
that meant most to her.

She worked actively in securing the establish-
ment of playgrounds in New York City. It is
most fitting that one of the playgrounds not far
from 265 Henry Street is named after her.

She was deeply concerned for all that related to
vital and abundant living. In the early days she
gavegenerously of her own time as a member of
the executive committee of the National Recrea-
tion Association, then known as the Playground
Association of America. She also served for a
period as a member of the Board of Directors.

The men and women who work in the great
cooperative recreation movement are better and
stronger for the inspiration of her pioneer lead—-

ershi ).
1 HOWARD BRAUCHER

arrangement of all equipment. Extra points are
given to these girls as well as to student instruct-
ors appointed by the teachers. The first meeting
is spent in organizing, the group being divided
into three divisions for the purpose of playing in
shifts and for making table assignments. The
girls are permitted to choose their own partners
and opponents. Special tables are set aside for
beginners, with a student instructor for each table.
Attendance is kept by student instructors, and all
girls participating are given points toward a Girls’
Athletic AssociatiOn award.

A Rural Conference at Purdue University—-
“Building Rural Communities” is the theme of the
conference to be held on the campus of Purdue
University November 6 to 9, 1940, under the
auspices of the American Country Life Associa-
tion. In addition to addresses and discussions,
there will be a number of interesting demonstra-
tions and special events. among them a rural
woman's chorus, entertainment by rural commu-
nity groups from lllinois, demonstrations of
chorus work by rural children, of drama expres-
sion, and of folk dancing and music. Throughout
the program the needs and responsibilities of rural

youth will be stressed, and emphasis will be laid
on the importance of art expression through
music, drama, and other forms of art. Further
information may be secured from the American
Country Life Association, 297 Fourth Avenue,

New York City. \

Dayton's Increased Facilities—\Vork is pro—
gressing rapidly on the tremendous recreational
project which is being built around Island Park
and McCook Field in Dayton, Ohio. Arteries and
bridges are being constructed and boulevards
extended. '

The road bed of North Bend Boulevard was laid
by W’ PA four years ago. It is now being widened,
graveled. and turfed as a new link in the system
of river boulevards prepared by the City Plan
Joard and gradually being carried to completion.
The present project of building the causeway. lay—
ing the sewers, and constructing the roads will

. involve more than $1,000,000, largely WPA funds.

The work, authorized in February, 1940. was
started February 23rd with 250 men. At present
634 are used, and it is thought that more than
1,200 will eventually be employed. The band shell,
which seats 5,000 people in its amphitheater and
has room for 5,000 more, is an outstanding feature
of the development.

In Deeds Park a $3,000 casting pool and a field
house have been constructed as a VVPA project-
for the I, 500 Daytonians organized in casting and
angling clubs. The pool, 150 feet in diameter and
one of the largest in the country, will be lighted
for night casting. Built of salvaged brick, the
field house contains an office, concession quarters,
and public rest rooms.

Lexington Receives Another Gift—The rec-
reation facilities of Lexington, Kentucky, will be
increased by the gift of another estate across the 
city from Castlewood Park, which was donatedf
several years ago. The plot, Which includes three ‘I
and a half acres, has on it a beautiful colonial
residence of thirty rooms. The mother of the
donor, Mr. D. W'. Bell, will live in the residence
until her death. The property contains another
building now used as a garage and servants’
quarters.

uSinging America"

(Continued from page 438)
Seventy of the songs were written or are ar-
ranged for part—singing. Forty-six of these are

J

AFTER HIGH SCHOO[.—WH.-l'1‘.f’ 449

for mixed voices, six are for men alone and ten
for treble voices, some of the latter songs being
adaptable for men. There are nine songs with

descants and several rounds. Thirty-seven of the.

part-songs are folk-songs and well suited to uni-
son singing also.

In hundreds of communities throughout the
country there are high school and college choruses
that sing the best choral music. There are already
in those communities many graduates of the
choruses and many other people who, through
much experience of singing from the usual com-
munity song books or in the many community and
club choruses and church choirs, have need in
their purely recreational singing for music that is
more gripping and substantial than most of what
is called for in such books. The compiler of
Singing America had these people in mind also
and a section of the book is devoted to the most
interesting examples of hrst—rate choral music
which is not beyond the reach of any group of
amateurs who have a sporting spirit.

ThrOUgh interchanges of music and people’s
ways with music, we of the Americas may all find
new powers of enjoyment and come to know one
another better.

After High School—What?

(Continued from page 431)

fully. For these groups, two woodworking
classes are provided: one for the married couples
in toy and game making; the other, various mis-
cellaneous types of woodworking.

Participation in these programs has increased
steadily and at the Hrst of the year it had reached
an aggregate of 250 for the week.

From the outset the director has received the
hearty cooperation of interested individuals and
groups in the execution of his plans. He has en—
listed the aid of the young people themselves by
organizing committees to take charge of various
activities, thus freeing him for general supervision
of the entire program and at the same time giving
them an opportunity to share in group responsi-
bility. The wide variety of activities has attracted
many different groups and the unsolicited com—
ments of the participants have clearly indicated
their appreciation of the opportunities which the
program offers.

While some phases of this program are still in
an experimental stage we feel that it is meeting a
real need in the lives of a considerable group of

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS INC.

 

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI. 0.

our youth. It is also demonstrating that a small
community, by using existing facilities and with a
modest expenditure of funds, can develop a rea-

sonably adequate recreation program.

Come to the l-lallowe'en Carnival!
(Continued from page 421)
way. Chains are clanked, a wind blows suddenly,
weird noises come from the distance, a cold hand
reaches out, a dimly lighted skeleton appears. Any
number of things may be added to make this walk

gruesome.

Pony Ride. A pony may be secured free of
charge from a local stable; The children ride him
around the courtyard of the school.

Adult Rest Haven. One room is reserved for

adults who are ready for a rest. A victrola plays
quiet music, and comfortable chairs are provided.

Refreshments are also served.

Check Room. Wraps may be checked for two
cents in the checkroom.

Stands are placed along the halls for the sale of
candy, ice cream, doughnuts, cider, coffee, etc.

450 GAMES FOR HALLOl/VE’EN

The Parade. The big event of the evening is the
parade. All those in costume join in the march.
A leader directs the group down the hall, up the
stairs, through the upstairs hall, and down and
around. A group of three judges select the best
boy and girl in costume. A prize of school sup—
plies is given to the winners.

By this time everyone is ready to go home. The
mischief planned has been forgotten and the eve-
ning has been a huge success.

It’s Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 442)

.lfoosilanke Summit Camp, on the last outpost
of the \Vhite Mountains to the southwest, is just
completing the twentieth year of operation by the
Dartmouth Outing Club. It has been the vacation
objective of 3,000 people. The hosts are a four-
man undergraduate crew. A naturalist gives in—
struction to any and all. Arctic forms of Labra—
dor and Greenland make it ideal for the nature
fan.

Virginia Natural History Institute, Reynold E.
Carlson, Director, on July 19th graduated twenty-
one students. The Institute was the first training
course for nature leaders in the South and origi—
nated out of the need for nature recreation lead—
ers. The course was sponsored by the National
Park Service, the National Recreation Associa—
tion, the Virginia State Conservation Commission,
and the College of William and Mary.

National C amps. By a strange coincidence, Na—'
tional Camps also graduated twenty—one students.
This school was on a graduate level and consisted
of students from fifteen states and Canada. It
was held on the roof of New Jersey in the Kitta—
tiny’ Mountains under the directorship of Dr. L.
B. Sharp. The sponsoring agencies were Life

Magazine, New York University, and the New
York City School Board.

The New “American l/Vild Life.” An illus-
trated publication which aims to preserve our
country’s precious heritage of natural resources.
National Wildlife Federation,‘ Normandy Build-
ing, Washington. Bimonthly, $1.00.

The Garden Education Department of the Na-
tional Education Association publishes the Garden
Digest, which is included in the annual member-
ship fee of $1.50. The Milwaukee program in—
. cluded the names of many well—known recreation
workers. The highlights of the program were a
park tour and a garden tour.

Games for Hallowe'en
(Continued from page 422)

pencil and is to write the answers in a given time.

A. Answers are some part of a cat.

1. A subordinate part of a sentence—clause
2. A narrative—tale

3 Part of a needle—eye

. A tree of the Northland—fir

. Essential to a carpenter—nails

. To stop temporarily—pause

. Part of a saw—teeth

. A daring accomplishment—feat

. Part of a barber business—whiskers

\DOOVOUI-h-

B. Answers beginning with the word “cat.”

1. An underground burial place—catacomb
2. An alphabetical list—catalog

3. A tree of North America—catalpa

4. A waterfall—cataract

. A disturbing throat ailment-——catarrah

. A great misfortune—catastrophe

. To capture—catch

. The larva of a butterHy—caterpiller

. A large church—cathedral

1 .  group of mountains—catskill

NOTE: At the close of the quiet games divide your
group into equal teams of not more than fifteen members
each. Have them line up in straight lines behind a leader;-

C3000me

More Active Games

Hot Corn Relay. Present to each leader a quarts
tity of corn kernels, enough to fill both hands;
Explain to the players that each of the leaders at
a given signal will put the corn on the floor in'
front of the player next to him. This player must
pick up all of the grains of corn and lay then]«
before the next player. This continues until the
end of the line is reached. If any of the grains are j
dropped, they must be picked up before the corn":
is transferred to the next neighbor. When the end i:
of the line is reached the last participant passe§1
the corn back again via each of the players until“
the grains are again in the possession of the cap=::
tain. The object, of course, is for one team tcll
pass the “hot corn” back ahead of the other group

of players.

Witches Relay. Distribute old discarded broomg
to the leader of each team. Instruct them to sill
astride the handles in witch fashion. At the start;
ing signal they gallop, astride the broom, from the
starting point at one end of the room to the other
side of the room where they return and hand thE
broom to the next person in line. On the race
course place a row of pumpkins over which the

l

DAUPHIN COUNTY’S FIFTH ANNUAL FOLK FESTIVAL

Dauphin County's Fifth Annual

Folk Festival

"Americans All"

in a MERICANS ALL,” Dauphin County’s Fifth'An-

nual Folk Festival, was presented by the

*Dauphin County Folk Council, in cooperation

with the Education and Recreation Program of
the \Vork Projects Administration and the Na-

tional Youth Administration, in the Forum of the

State Educational Building at Harrisburg, Penn-

iSylvania, on the evenings of May 28th and 29th.
‘Mary Barnum Bush Hauck, State Supervisor of

Music, Work Projects Administration, directed

the Festival.

The Town Crier, attired in an early American

"costume, appeared on the streets of Harrisburg

and “called out” an invitation to all “good people”
to attend the Festival. Dr. Francis Haas, Superin-

tendent of Public Instruction, officially opened

the Festival which launched the 1940 state-wide
movement.

Six hundred persons, dressed in traditional cos-
tumes, from the various nationalities and racial
groups of the county, brought to the stage a series
of dramatizations based upon the traditional folk-
ways inherited by them. The scenes ranged from
early Hebrew to the American Indian and to early
folk music of the Negro, followed by the various
nationalities and the integrated folk-lore of Penn-
sylvania and the United States.

The episodes were: “The Indian Love Call,"

American Indian; “Kol Nidre,” Hebrew; “Ser-

7

bian-Amercian Outing,’ Serbian; “Serenade,”
Italian; “Summer Solstice,” German; “Cowboy
Round—up,” American Running Dancers ; “Penn-
sylvania Folk-lore,” (Canal, Lumber, and Coal
Miners’ tunes), Male Chorus; “American Negro
Folk Music,” Male Chorus; “St. George’s Day,”
Macedonian-Bulgarian ; “Day of Flowers,” Greek;
“Sunday Afternoon in a Croatian Village,” Cro-
atian; “Fasiangy,” Slovak; “Stephen Foster,”
Girls: Chorus; "Cake-walk,” Negro; “Carpet-rag
Party,” Pennsylvania Germans (guests from Le-
high County).

 

 

broomstick riders must hurdle. The purpose being
to see which team can cover the course first.

Spooky Spelling Relay. On the floor fifteen feet
in front of each team place a pack of alphabet
cards face down on the fioor. The leader then
first announces the number of letters in the word

I to be spelled so that the number of players from

451

 

on the genuine world-famous

"JUNGLEGYM”

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

The "perfect playground device" —as authori-
ties the world over have called the "Junglegym"
Climbing Structure— is now available at new
prices more than 50 per cent below the former
level. Mass production, made possible by the
ever-growing demand for this item. has enabled
us to make these drastic price reductions. Write
for our descriptive booklet telling why the "Inn-
glegym" Climbing Structure is the safest. most
economical, most educational. most all-around

desirable play apparatus you can buy. New
prices are quoted with the booklet.

Send for our beautiful new Recreation Equipment
Catalog. just off the press!

1;
THE In E.  CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

OTTAWA *

 

Manufacturers of the famous "Louden." "Chicago" and "Spaldinq"
lines of playground. swimming pool and gymnasium equipment

each team will be prepared; i.e., if the word is
cat, he announces three letters and then calls out
the word, and the first three players from each
team rush up to the cards, pick out the letters
c—a-t, and each player holding one letter waist
high places himself facing the rest of his team in
the correct position for spelling the word. The
group First spelling the word correctly wins a
point for their team, then all return to the ends
of their line and a new word is announced. Only
words not containing the same letter twice can be
used. The following are suggested: orange, black,
ghost, weird, grave, witch, raven, haunt, fate,
fortune, fairy, gnome, phantom, vampire, corn-
stalk, cat, owl.

School Boards Are Human!

(Continued from page 437)

sits at the bottom to see that; it does not escape
to someone who might do something constructive
with it!

Passing a resolution to write a letter to the
school board making all kinds of demands. If
nothing came of it, your group would be inclined
to do nothing more than say, “What can you ex—

452 DR. JAMES H. McCURDY

pect ?" This is a very popular pastime these days.

Speaking on behalf of a chosen few. Make your
plea, and if it is a fair one it will stimulate less
highly organized groups than yours to think in
terms of carrying on a more extensive program if
they can get better accommodations. Speak for
the people.

Appointing forty committees. One committee
of three members is sufficient to act on behalf of
the interested groups. At this meeting everyone
has a chance to express an opinion, and the next
step is

Lesson 6
Build Up a Case

You now know the groups who can make use
of schools to further their programs, and you
have the support of other groups who favor your
ideas in principle.

Secure the following information from the
groups who want to use school facilities:

How many .of your groups could use school
buildings?

Names of groups

Male or female

Average age in each group

Number in each group

Type of program

What kind of leadership?

How much can the group afford to pay?

Accommodation required

Present extent of school use

Compile this information in the form of a chart.
‘It should tell a story that warrants further action
or indicates that the whole matter should be
dropped. If action is indicated, it brings us to

Lesson 7

The Big Push

Chart your information in a neatly typed-chart
like a railroad time table so that one can see at a
glance what the problems of each organization
are and where the school board could help out.
Summarize the chart so that you can see how
many organizations representing so many groups
require classrooms, gymnasia, halls, and similar
facilities.

 

 

A Correction

In the September issue of RECREATION there
appeared an article entitled “Youth Serves Youth.”
The authorship of- this article was attributed to
Sydney B. Markey. This name should have ap-
peared as S. E. Markey.

Dr. James H. McCurdy

N THE DEATH of Dr. James H. McCurdy at

Springfield, Massachusetts, on September 4,
1940, the Association lost a director who had
served almost continuously from 1907 until the
hour of his death. During the time from 1907 to
1940, there were only two years when Dr. Mei
Curdy was not a member of the Board of Dié
rectors, and during these two years he was active
in the service of the movement. '

For many years, while serving as secretary of,
the American Physical Education Association, Dri
McCurdy helped in relating that work most closely
to the work of the Association. He was active};
with others in asking the Association to establisli
the National Physical Education Service and did
all that he could to put power behind that servicei
He urged that everything possible be done to help,
the state directors of physical education through-i,
out the United States. He was particularly inter;
ested in what happened in the villages and smaller.
towns.

On a number of occasions Dr. McCurdy spoke!
in behalf of the national recreation movement. Hg
was ever actively thinking about the problems ofi
the Association. On his own initiative he came
from time to time to the office to make sugges-
tions regarding the work.

A partial list of the committees on which Dr.
McCurdy served in behalf of the recreation move-«e
ment indicates only in a small way the extent of;
his interest in the work:

Committee to Draft Syllabuses in Playground
Work for Physical Training in' Normal
Courses

Committee on Congress Program (Chairman)

Committee on Games

Committee on Athletic Badges I

Committee on Boys’ Club Work in Relation 
to Playgrounds ,.

Committee to Consider General Subjects in
Connection with Girls’ Athletics '-

Representative at Conference of Intercol—
legiate Association of Amateur Athletics
of America.

Dr. McCurdy’s courage, his dedication, his
steadiness, his earnestness, his sound judgment,.
his rare spirit, his faith in the future of the:
recreation movement, his warm personal quali-
ties—all helped those who were associated With

hlln- HOWARD BRAUCHER

Preferences of Secondary

School Pupils

Ichools made a survey of the secondary school
lupils to hnd, among other things, what types of
rhysical recreative activities pupils in the second-
A.ry schools select after the, hour of daily formal
.[ismissal._ Some of the results may be of interest
ligh, boys and girls, the following were, in order,
he favorites: roller skating, intramural activities,
wimming, bicycling, hiking, ice skating. noon
.our activities, dancing class, boating (sailing,
anoeing), and playground groups.

Boys of junior high school age indicated the
ollowing preferences: intramural activities, rol-

PREFERENCES OF SECONDARY SCHOOL PUPILS

THE HEALTH and Physical Education Depart—
ment of the New Rochelle, New York, public

As Originally

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN
Director of Physical

Basketball Coach
University or Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Developed by . . .

Education and Varsity

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating
exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball

ling, noon hour activities, playground groups, ice
kating, and dancing classes. The same age girls
referred practically the same activities but in a

'iii‘erent order: noon hour activities, intramural
ctivities, dancing class, roller skating, swimming.
iirl Scouts, bicycling, church group, hiking, ice
kating.

Senior high school boys and girls both rank
aller skating, swimming, and ice skating at the
)p of their lists. The boys go on with bicycling,
eating, intramural activities, hiking, Boys Club,
layground groups, and bowling, while the girls
refer this order: hiking, bicycling, boating,
hurch group, horseback riding, intramural activi—
‘es, and dancing class.

Other activities engaged in by some of the boys
nd girls to a lesser extent were bowling, Camp-

'ire Girls, C.Y.O., newspaper route, and 'Y.M.
'.A. activity groups.

0 recreation workers.
For all students, both Junior High and Senior
:r skating, hiking, bicycling, Boy Scouts, swim—

 

 

Softball Captures a City
(Continued from page 440)

, ons have a large representation on the teams.
:oppers Coal, the largest coal company in the
:ate. has its teams, as do Owens Illinois Glass
“Olllpany and a number of others. The city gov-
r‘nment is represented by teams from the \V'ater
lepartment, city police, and sheriff’s office.

The annual Monongahela Valley tournament is
re climaxing feature of the softball program.
‘he best teams in the northern part of the state

.articipate, and a champion is determined. This

'1

F R E D M E D A R T
3524 DeKalb Street a.

. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE. FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive Liceneengreement)

MANUFACTURING C

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

ex ent lasts three days, with games played between
five and eight o’clock in the evening. Several
thousand people attend the games.

\Ve have found that the interest in softball has
helped greatly in making our citizens playground-
conscious, and this is reflected in support for the
Community Chest from which the Playground
Association derives its funds for the play program.

The Park of the Future

(Continued frown page 434)

ments containing these features. When these
necessities are furnished by the state, you can feel
sure that the drinking water is safe; that sanitary
conditions prevail; that overcharging is not the
rule: and these are the conditions you gamble on
in many such places at present. These are the
very features appreciated by tourists, the ones
which will yield income and take the parks off the
tax lists, simply because these parks will be fur-
nishing services previously thought unnecessary
for the tourists in the world of tomorrow.

0.

at St. Louis. Mo.

 

454 COMMUNITY RECREATION IN CLEVELAND HOUSING ESTATES

Children’s Institutions

The National Alagazine of Child Welfare in Institutions

If You \Vork With Children You Need It!

CONTENTS—48 pages of practical information writ-

Fo" ten by persons doing the work and whose experience
Superintendents . well quallfies them. Every phase of the program pertain-
Social “yorkers mg to the care of children discussed—Educational, Voca-

tional, Recreational for Dependent, Delinquent and Excep-

Recreatldn D IreCtors  tional children. No philosophies—down-to-earth material

Camp Directors

School Teachers 

Cottage Parents

—the facts as they are. Regardless of your position in
the children’s field, its contents are directed to you!

FEATURES—In addition to a number of feature
articles, several features appear regularly. Sections are

30$

. and other stafjr members

(‘0 devoted to Act1v1t1es which 1nclude Recreatlon, Scoutlng,
In Clubs of all kinds, Music, and holiday occasions. The
V Home Schools . dietltlallclis enjoy a Food Bureau._ _Ma1ntenance Superi-
I 0 h v1sors nd ass1stance 1n. malntalnlng equlpmentlan

1‘P anages plant from regular material. There’s several additional

Training Schools

Schools for the Deaf
Schools for the Blind

features such as Gleanings of News from all sections
of the country . . . Book Reviews . . . Here’s Help For
All . . . Personnel Page and more.

Children’s Hospitals
Child-Caring Agencies

_________.

ATKINS PUBLISHING 00.,152 West 42nd Street,“New York, N. v. 

 

Community Recreation in Cleveland

Housing Estates

(Continued from page 420)
by the organization have greatly benefited tenants.
In nine months’ operation the organization has
paid in shares amounting to over $400; total loans
have been $705; collections have been one hun-
dred per cent. On June 30, 1940, the Credit Union
had 104 members.

A nursery school for seventy children is oper-
ated at Lakeview Terrace. A group of mothers
of these three and four year olds constitute a
committee which is responsible for the planning
and financing of this activity. They charge a tui-
tion of twenty-five cents a week, which covers the
cost of the cod liver oil, fruit juices, milk, daily
nurse’s inspection and supplies used in the nurs—
ery school program. Occasionally these mothers
and their friends sponsor a dinner, dance or card
party. at the community building, and use the
proceeds to assist in the financing of the school.
Technical advice and counsel is provided by the
staff of the Cleveland Child Health Association, a
Community Fund agency. Thus the standards of
the school are kept on a high plane. Cedar Central

A BIONTIILY YOU’LL LO0K FOB\VABD T0'BEADING!

$3.00-0ne Year $5.00-Two Years

 

Apartments and Outhwaite Homes are planning:
similar program for their preschool children ir.
the near future. Leadership in the Lakevieu
Terrace preschool program was provided for thg
first year of its existence by the Cleveland Foun;
dation. After a year of this valuable demonstra:
tion the tenants, with the aid of leadership from
VVPA and NYA, were able to carry on their owr '
playschool program without the aid of outside
funds.

I
The Sterling Community Players of the Cedaii
Central Apartments have just finished a success
ful season of dramatics. This‘ group is made up
entirely of amateurs and is directed by one of thef:
tenants. The three act farce which they presentect
to their neighbors at Cedar Central met with sucl'
success that they were invited by the Little Thea:
er GrOUp of Lakeview Terrace to give this p121)
to the tenants there.

Because public housing for the low-incomt
group aims to make safe and sanitary dwelling;
available to as large a number as possible, the
leadership expenditures for recreational activitiC}
are necessarily limited. On the staff of each H0113;
ing Estate a management assistant with group

HALLOHO’E’EN IN NORTH .MINNEAPOLIS 4

NE OF THE PROJECTS receiving honorary men-
0 tion at the National Y.M.C.A. contest, the
winners of which were announced at the \Vorld’s
Fair, was a Hallowe’en Jamboree conducted in
North Minneapolis. Following a successful Hal—
lowe'en celebration in 1938, plans were made for
a greatly enlarged jamboree in 1939 to which all
the junior and senior high school boys and their
fathers were invited. The program was planned
for 4.209 people, with celebrations in three of the
city's largest schools.

In preparing for the celebratioii, as a first step
the Twin Cities were canvassed r for outstanding
program material, and the following were secured:
a golf exhibition by Patty Berg, well—known Min-
neapolis golfer; official moving pictures of the
Minnesota Golden Horde; personal appearance of
Ching Johnson, world famous hockey player; and
fencing and wrestling exhibitions by leading teams
in the region. ._

The Sigma Alpha Chi Fraternity, which spon-
sored the celebration, turned to two other groups
—-Beta Chi Beta and the North Minneapolis Y’s
Men. Various Hi-Y groups served as ushers and
corridor guards.

All expenses, including such items as transpor-

tation of participants, printing of tickets, and re-
freshments, were met by contribution from the
Northside Businessmen’s Organizations, and the
Mayor’s Hallowe’en Committee.
' NOTE: From the National Recreation Associa-
tion may be secured a bulletin entitled “The Com—
munity Celebrates Hallowe’en,” which tells what
a number of cities have done to transform Hal-
lowe’en into a night of community fun and good
fellowship. Price 15 cents.

 

 

I

work experience performs the function of co-
ordinator for the community activities. It is the
leoordinator's responsibility to discover and en-
I courage constructive leadership among the tenants
and to supplement this volunteer tenant leadership
with skilled workers from the \V PA Recreation
and Adult Education projects and from the Na-
tional Youth Administration. Tenants residing in
the vicinity of outdoor play lots are charged with
the responsibility of supervising the children’s play
- in these areas and with keeping the areas clean
I hid orderly.

f,

i Halloween in
; North Minneapolis

U‘l
Ul.

PUPPEITS

The Hamburg Puppet Guild is headquarters for the
recreational and educational use of Puppets. offering

0 Complete manual for making marionettes, operating
and staging. 5°C

0 Book of seven plays — starting with one character. 75c

0 Traveling course in puppetry and puppet project
leadership as given with academic credit—write for
information

0 Puppets, parts, materials. stage plans —- write for
information

0 Outline of puppet proiect organization and check list
of steps from idea to production—FREE

Address:
HAMBURG PUPPET GUILD

Dept. R-IOO HAMBURG. N. Y.

 

Fun Comes to the Family
(Continued from page 433)

Family expeditions can be used and become
events instead of just another ride. Weeks before
the event the family have divided their responsi--
bilities, have talked about the route taken, what
we will do en route before and after our destina—
tion has been reached. Maybe these decisions on
how to go and what to take along can be family
enterprises instead of father deciding it all.

Visitors in our home. The entire family can
enjoy the visit of a friend and any member of
that family. Visitors can be asked to include son
and daughter in their conversation and thereby
help to make a family event out of dad’s friends
rather than an occasion when the children are
annoyed by limitations placed upon them when
visitors arrive.

The unusual and different often add greatly to
the family play. By this I mean turning the unex-
pected and unpredictable or the inconvenient
event into one of adventure. Try taking the
family out on a rainy night in spring or summer,
permitting them to go with head uncovered, a1-
lowing the rain to run through their hair, and if
convenient to go out and have the mud come
through °their toes, if you live near the country.
The family conversation following such an event
becomes one of fun and congeniality. One can
make a real case for the contributions of this kind
of activity to the life, intimacy, and development
of each member of the family. Maybe it is just
enough to think of it as good family fun.

NOTE: Mr. Edgren, in collaboration with Mr. D. T.
Eiswald, has issued a booklet entitled Game Craft which

tells how to make and play a number of games. Copies
may be secured at fifty cents each from the authors at

George Williams College, Chicago.

456

The Influencing
of Character

"authoritative, practical”
for all

RECREATIONAL LEADERS

BY

HUBER WILLIAM HURT. Ph.D.
51/2” x 81/2”—223 pages—$1.65

"THE MECHANICS OF
HUMAN RELATIONS"
32 pages, 4” X 6”—45c

"LIFE PLANNING
ANALYSIS CHART"

for analyzing personal
data in Guidance Work

Also

"VOCATIONAL
COMPARISON CHART"

for weighing vocations
Each —— 25c

"U. S. HISTORY IN

GRAPHIC OUTLINE"
a 28” x 42” chart in
two. colors — 50c

THE 1939 COLLEGE BLUE BOOK

756 pages analyzes nearly

4,000 institutions — $4.75

Address

THE COLLEGE BLUE BOOK

404 RIVERSIDE DRIVE
NEW YORK CITY

 

EDGAR S. [MARTIN

Edgar S. Martin

On August 8, 1940, Edgar Stanley Martin, edi-
tor, educator, and National Director of Publica-
tions of the Boy Scouts of America, died at his
home in East Orange, New Jersey.

After serving as Principal of the High School
in Tully, New York, and as Principal of the John
G. McMynn School in Racine, Wisconsin, Mr.
Martin became Director of the Washington Park
Recreation Center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in
1910. He served also in the recreation movement
in Washington, D. C., and in Columbus, Ohio. He
has always maintained his, interest in the National
Recreation Association. Mr.- Martin was one of
the pioneers in the recreation movement.

Camp Fire Girls Honored

(Continued from page 426)

ceremony, announced that the forest would be
used for wilderness pack trips by Camp Fire
Girls from all sections of the United States. The
dedicatory speech was delivered by Colonel Allen ‘
S. Peck, Regional Forester of the United States
Forest Service, before an audience of forestry of-
ficials, Camp Fire leaders, distinguished guests,
and hundreds of Camp Fire Girls.  M. Fitz-
gerald, camp committee chairman of the Denver
Council of Camp Fire Girls, responded to Colonel
Peck’s address and accepted the forest area in the
name of the Camp Fire Girls of America.

Bicycling—A New Extracurricular
~ Activity
(Continued from page 414)

tain amount of pleasure, but they should not be
attempted by high school youths.

American Youth Hostels

Youth hosteling and bicycling are synonymous I
terms today. About ninety per cent of the hostel-
ers do their traveling on Wheels. Further infor-
mation about the American Youth Hostels, Inc,
may be secured from Mr. and Mrs. Monroe Smith
at Hostel No. I, 'Northfield, Massachusetts.

NOTE: It will 'be of interest to readers of this article
to know that Harper and Brothers have recently added to
their hobby series a rbook by Mr. Geist entitled Bicycling

as a Hobby. Readers of RECREATION in New York and

vicinity interested in bicycling may wish to secure from

Mr. Geist, 260 West 260th Street, New York City, a
schedule of the fall trips planned by the College Cycle

Club.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 457

A Library Moves into a Community

Center
(Continued from page 416)

handicraft lessons, and other social activities on
Saturday afternoons. As a fitting climax, the
Center contributed a movie.

There is an adult club which seeks material in
the library on social conditions and people con-
nected with Zionism and the Palestinian Move-
ment. Work is done by the library with Boy
l Scouts and outside schools. There are several

near-by schools, public and parochial, which use
lthis branch of the public library and come to the

, branch both for story hours and for library les-
sons and instruction. The°librarian in turn calls
.on the schools, visits the individual rooms, and
invites the children to use the library.

l Within the Center are several Junior Clubs for
lthe adolescent group. They use books on debates,
loratory, declamations, public speaking and parlia-

imentary law. There is in addition a dancing studio.

,This is for children, beginning with the preschool
'child, and for adults. Sonya Olchoff is the Di-
'rector. She was trained in the Imperial Russian
[Ballet under the Czar, and appeared as a child
, before the Czar’s court.

The Director of Music is Rafael Rubinstein, a
. pianist late of Berlin and Palestine. Orchestral
and piano scores are in constant demand at the
rlibrary, as well as books on music appreciation,
’nusicians, and especially “Great Musicians of a
I {Wandering Race.”

' The Center believes in physical as well as cul-
"-;ural and educational development, and for this
where is a Health Club, a well-equipped gym-
,”iasium, and a swimming pool. Patrons from all
'hver the city turn to the library in this connection

‘for books on physical education, swimming, and
for recreational games.

Last year, under the leadership of Mr. Irving
Levitas, the public was invited to "attend the
weekly gathering at the Center for the radio
broadcasts of the “Town Meeting of the Air”
- series. Local speakers were invited to participate
' in discussion following the broadcast.

Mr. Louis M. Nourse, Librarian of the Kansas
City Public Library, is gratified with this branch
library’s activity and its steady growth. Kansas
:City has fifteen branch libraries, but the Center
.Community Branch is totally different from any
‘ ':)f the others. Miss Mary Ross, the branch libra-
irian, is proud of her branch, and is most enthu-
'siastic in her plans for the future.

‘ i

l

l

 

 

 

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, July 1940

"Recreation Parksf S 11 " "
D. Cornell or ma Communities by Ralph

Children's Institutions, August 1940
Camp Olympics” by Cris G. Chachis

PAMPHLETS

What You nght to Know About Nylon Leader Material.
Information for the fisherman on how to tie a number

E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., Inc., Plastics De-
partment, Arlington, N. J.

Easy Lessons in Guitar Playing by John Locke

Reader Mail, Inc., 635 Sixth Avenue, New York,
price 10¢

Teaching Guide: Physical Education—Part IV Play-
ground Safety

C. I. Glen, .Supervisor of Physical Education, Los
Angeles City Schools, Los Angeles, Cal.

Camp Cookery

Extension Service, State College of Washington,
Pullman, Washington

Grgwth Through School Living compiled by Claire T.
yve

, 1940,

Housing Requirements of Farm Families in the United

States by Maud Wilson

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price $.10 a

Learn to Swim the Easy Way by D. Sanford Parker

Forest City Printing Company, Portland, Me., 1939,
price $.35

Manual on Churches and Cooperatives compiled by Ben-

son Y. Landis
The Committee on Church and Cooperatives, Indus-
trial Division, Federal Council of the Churches of

Christ in America, 297 Fourth Avenue, New York
City, 1940, price $.10

Passover Haggadah prepared .-by Rabbi Philip Goodman

Institutional Synagogue, 37-43 West 116th Street,
New York City

Recreation Legislation of Tennessee. Bulletin No. l7-d

Tennessee State Planning Commission, Nashville,
Tenn, 1939, price $.25

The Rural Community by E. L. Kirkpatrick, Agnes M.
Boynton, and Lois M. Clark

E. L. Kirkpatrick, American Youth Commission,
Washington, D. C.

Rural Library Service

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price $.10

Some References on Professional Practice and Profes-
sional Opportunities in City, State, and Regional
Planning compiled by Katherine McNamara

Library of the Department of Landscape Architect-
ure and Regional Planning, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.

458 RECREATION EOR OLDER PEOPLE

Working Together by Jay A. Urice
Association Press, New York City, 1940. Democratic
procedures in Y.M.C.A. administration '

Annual Reports /
Department of Recreation, Board of Education,
Hamtramck, Michigan, 1938-1939; Recreation De-
partment, Board of Education, Newark, N. J.;
1938-1939; Superintendent of Recreation, York,
Pa, Summer of 1939.

National Folk Festival—Its Problems and Reasons, by
Sarah Gertrude Knott
Reprint from the Southern Folk Lore Quarterly,
Volume 3, No. 2, June 1939

Annual Reports 1938 -
Chicago Park District, Recreation Division
Bureau of Recreation, Department of Public Af-
fairs, Clairton, Pa.
Recreation Department, Board of Park Commission-
ers, Minneapolis, Minn.

Recreation Surveys

Recreational Facilities with Recommendations for
City Schools and Municipal Playgrounds, Fresno,
Calif., 1939
Summaries of the Park, Parkway and Recreational
Area Study and Forest Resources Survey for
Florida, 1939. Florida State Planning Bureau

Recreational Opportunities and Problems in Monon-
galia, W. V., by Recreation Council of Monongalia
County, Morgantown, W. Va., 1938

Semiannual Survey of School and Playground Ac-
tivities, January-June 1939, by Oakland, Calif.,
Recreation Department

Recreation For Older People
, ( C ontimwd from page 432)

national Power Boat Regatta in Detroit last sum-
mer about half of the entries were built and raced
by men about 50 years of age. Through the help
of amateur hobbyists who have developed their
special hobbies to the point where they can help
others to enjoy them too, the Department of Rec-
reation has developed three cooperative hobby cen-
ters, each conducted one day a week in churches.
About twenty groups meet each day and the va-
riety of hobbies, many of which attract older
people, is unusual. Older women, for instance,
participate in dressmaking and millinery, pottery
work, ceramics, china painting, jewelry making,
leather tooling, while the older men are interested
in stamp collecting groups, public speaking, wood
carving, camera clubs, and fly casting. For the
past ten years the Detroit Department'of Recrea-i.
tion has been organizing grQUps for home care of:
the sick. The Health Department staff has co-_,
operated in giving the instruction. These classes,
as would be expected, have always drawn a large:
number of older women.

 

 

  
  

Subscription
Price

$2.00

  

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY .

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,{_
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social;
Functions make democratic settings and life,
situations typical Of the American way of living-
and working together.

.School attenuates

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

    
    
 

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING CO,

1515 LANE STREET - -

TOPEKA, KANSAS

I
ll

 

A Brieli History of the National

. Pa rlz Service

'5 U. S. Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C.

‘E HEN IT WAS established in 1872, the National Park
: Service assumed great responsibility for adminis-
l tering and protecting the country’s national parks and
monuments. These responsibilities have been tremend-
ously enlarged until today the Service, through its co—
l. peration with the states in their park deveIOpment pro-
E ram holds a position of great influencc. It is now in
icharge of a system which has grown to embracc

7:20

21,011,778 acres of land and water, including 25 national
parks, 80 national monuments, 45 national historical
parks, national battlefields, and other classifications of
areas. The recorded achievement of the National Park
Service is one in which the citizens of the United States
may take great pride.

3
l
l
l
l

Modern Table Tennis

By Jack Carrington. David McKay Company, \Vash-
ington Square, Philadelphia. $1.00.

DESIGNED TO TEACH the beginner how to play, this book

also aids the individual who understands the game in
.improving his playing. The techniques of various plays
{are analyzed, tactics'are explained, common faults illus;

l.trated and cures recommended.
I

Basket Pioneering

By Osma Palmer Couch. Orange Judd Publishing Com-
pany, Inc., New York. $1.75.

THE REVISED EDITION of Basket Pioneering has been en-
l larged and illustrated with many beautiful new bas-
lket designs chosen from typical American examples, both

Colonial and American Indian, and also from forms

priginating in Great Britain and other foreign countries.
l It is a hand-book written in pOpular style, with directions

and diagrams for basket making design for the beginner
l as well as the more experienced basket weaver. Daniel
1

 

Carter Beard has written the foreword in which he says
that the most useful quality of this book is that it
develops the vision of the reader, enabling him to recog—
nize the possibilities of the common things; thus making
him an artisan‘, an artist, and a creator!

Camping and the Older Boy

Edited by the National Camping Commission, Young
Men’s Christian Associations, John A. Ledlie, Chair-

man. Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New
York. $.35.

HE NATIONAL CAMPING COMMISSION of the Y.M.C.A.’s

has gathered the program experiences of older boys
in several Y.M.C.A.'s and discussed their iindings under
the titles “The Trail Camp,” “Training in Citizenship,”
land “An Adirondack Trek and Co-Ed Activities,” “A
1

Sailing and Canoeing Camp,” “A Nomad Camp,” and

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

“Organization and Activities in Older Boy Camping.”
The booklet offers a practical guide to camp directors in
helping them meet the needs and desircs of older boys.

It Pays to Play

By$ lg/gollie Heath Conn. Thc Womans Press, New York.

HE SUGGESTIONS offercd here for parties and for rec-
reational activities are primarily for Girl Reserve
clubs in rural communities and small towns. They will,
however, be helpful to groups of many types. In addition

to the suggestions for parties, there are also brief hints
for drama, music, handcraft, and folk dancing, “for,”

says the author, “no recreation program would be com-
plete without inclusion of some of the cultural pursuits.”

Modern Camping Guide

By George W. Martin. D. Appleton-Century Company,
New York. $2.50.

WHETHER YOU GO AFOOT, by canoe, by automobile, or on

skis, this practical guide will prepare you for all thc
necessities and emergencies of camping. There are de-
tailed descriptions of tents and shelters, sleeping, cook-
ing, and wearing equipment, and there are discussions of
all the various details-which make for successful camping.
A special feature of the book is the number of practical
drawings illustrating every important detail of camping
procedure. The book is aimed at average campers, par-

ticularly the men and women who enjoy doing things for
themselves.

30 Successful Clown Acts

Compiled by Wes McVicar, Director of Physical Edu-
cation, Central Y.M.C.A., 40 College Street, Toronto,
Canada. Available from author. $.50-

THE 1940 EDITION of this mimeographed compilation of

Clown Acts contains stunts which do not duplicate
those appearing in the 1937, 1938, or 1939 editions. Any-
one planning for a playground, camp, or club circus
should find these suggestions helpful.

Juvenile Delinquents Grown Up

By Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck. The Commonwealth
Fund, New York. $2.50.

IN THIS NEW STUDY the Gluecks attempt to answer the

question, “What happens to youngsters who go through
the juvenile courts, industrial schools, reformatories,
prisons, and on probation or parole?” For the first time
in the history of criminology a large group of juvenile
delinquents—there were 1,000 at the beginning of the
investigation—have been followed for fifteen years from
their juvenile court experience, at an average age of
fourteen to an average age of twenty-nine. In general,
the study Showed, with the passing of the years there
has been a steady diminution in the number of youths

459

460

who continued to 'be offenders so that by the time the
juvenile delinquents had reached an average age of
twenty-nine almost forty per cent had ceased to be
criminals. Moreover, even among those who continued
to commit crimes significant.impr0vement occurred. The
reasons for these conclusions and the other findings of
the study will be of great interest to recreation workers
and all others concerned with young people and their
problems.

Avocational Interest Patterns. A Study
in the Psychology of Avocations.

By Donald E. Super, Ph.D. Stanford University
Press, Stanford University, California. $2.25.

Do men engaged in a given avocation have a character-
istic pattern of interests, just as men in a given occupa-
tion do? How are avocations related to vocations? Are
they similar in nature and content, and does the major
avocation tend to resemble the usual occupation? These
are the questions which Dr. Super attempts to answer
by applying to avocations the technique of interest meas-
urement, applied so successfully to vocations by Edward
K. Strong. He has based his study on four avocations—
stamp collecting, model engineering (railroads and
motor boats), instrumental music (symphony orches—
tras), and photography. The findings of the study will
be of interest to recreation workers. Dr. Super urges
caution in applying the conclusions, and points out the
areas and problems still to be investigated.

It's Fun to Keep Fit. A Guide to Games and Sports.

By Fred B. Barton. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $2.00.

“It's fun to keep fit if you do it the play way,” is the
theme of this book which deals not with exercise in
terms of dumbbells and daily “dozens,” but with games
and sports of many types. There are backyard activities,
indoor and outdoor games, winter and summer sports,
and forms of recreation are suggested, organized and
unorganized, for all seasons, all moods, and all pocket-

books.

Youth—Millions Too Many? A Search
for Youth’s Place in America.

By Bruce L. Melvin. Association Press, 347 Madi-
son Avenue, New York. $2.00.

Through his sympathetic understanding of the prob-
lems of young people, Dr. Melvin shows what youth is
thinking and doing, and how they are working and play-
ing. He has selected significant facts from private and
governmental research on the problems facing youth and
presents them in a straightforward way. He suggests
some of the paths open to them, though he warns they
are only partially cut, and it is the responsibility of
youth to help complete these paths. The study shows that
there are some twenty-one and a half million young
people in the country between the ages of sixteen and
twenty-four years. “These young people,” Dr. Melvin
says, “do not offer any threat to democracy unless de-
mocracy fails them.” Sixteen striking illustrations help
complete this challenging study of youth.

Individual Stunts Without Equipment.

By Garson Herman. Available from author, 1555
Unionport Road, Bronx, New York. $35. plus $.08.
postage.

There are over sixty stunts in Mr. Herman’s compila-
tion which should be valuable to club leaders, camp
counselors, playground directors, and other leaders. The
author has taken into consideration the lack of equipment
in many recreational areas and the danger involved in
the use of heavy apparatus. All of the stunts he suggests,
which are illustrated, require no equipment.

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Bicycling as a Hobby.

By Roland C. Geist.
York. $2.00.

Bicycling has reached such high eminence in the field
of sports that a book has been written on the subject.
The author has been a bicycle enthusiast for more than
thirty years, has taught bicycling at a large New York
high school, and has conducted tours through many
countries. The book discusses the practical phases of
bicycling—cost, equipment, best tours to take, care of
bicycles, the organization of cycle clu'bs, safety rules to
follow, and countless other details. It also provides a
complete list of places to ride in the United States.

Harper and Brothers, New

The New Green Mountain Songster—
Traditional Folk Songs of Vermont.

Collected, transcribed and edited :by Helen Hartness
Flanders, Elizabeth Flanders Ballard, George Brown,
and Phillips Barry. Yale University Press, New
Haven, Connecticut. $3.50.. '

The original Green Mountain Songster was compiled
in 1823 by the "Unknown Soldier of Sandgate.” This
is said to be the first collection of folk songs from a folk
singer’s repertory to be published in the United States.

For the present collection the editors have selected the
songs with the most human interest which best reflect
their period. Music as well as words of the songs are
given, and whenever possible the entire air showing the
variation stanza by stanza.

Oflicers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOIIN (i. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-I’rcsitlenl
GUS-I'AVUS T. KIRIIv, Treasurer

HOWARD BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BInDLE, Carlislv, l‘a.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, I) t'.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTI], Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORDETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla
F. TRUREE DAVISON, Locust Valley, 1.. l., N. \.
IIARRv P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

RODERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN IIARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE II. HASRELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CIIARLES V. I-IICKox, Michigan City, lml
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J
MRS. JOIIN D. JAMESON, Sugar III“, N. ll.
GUSTAVUS T. KIan, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Form.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

