Joy and Strength and Happiness
Through Work *

HE NATIONAI. RECREATION ASSOCIATION has devoted itself to the task of trying to secure more
abundant 11v1ng for the men. women and chlldren of the United States. There are other organi-

zations that are devoted to the'problems of labor and employment. However, no organization
- whlch th1nks In terms of the pursult of happlness can ignore the other great divisions of life—relig-

9

Y ion, education, work, health, government.

When a man is without'employment all leisure leaves a bitter taste. That recreation which
does not have relatlon to religlon and education and work and health, even though that relation be
entIrely an unconscious one, is apt to be recreation of a lesser value.

I It ought to be so that all recreation would create an atmosphere, a spirit which would pervade

i
1.
I
a
i

< all the waking and, to some extent, the sleeping hours as well. And what transpires in the working

hours is bound to have tremendous effect on the creative capacities of the individual as used in his
free time. No man can be separated into his component elements. Man is by his very nature in-
divisible, and that is one of his sources of strength. It is as man keeps close to the earth and keeps
his inner spirit united that he has strength.

Work and recreation are not something opposed to each other, something to be kept entirely
separate and distinct. It is true that much of modern labor under machine conditions must be rou-
tine and cannot give the degree of satisfaction which was possible in labor under pioneer conditions.
However, the healthy, normal individual ought to have such inner resources in his own life that he
can take routine labor and to some extent redeem it and make it in itself contribute in a certain
degree to the pursuit of happiness. It will be a sorry day for America when the emphasis on the
pursuit of happiness, on recreation, on leisure time, results in an antipathy to work, in a feeling that

)work time is just so much lost time. Civilization will ever rest upon work as well as upon leisure
land the pursuit of happiness.

Not only is there a rhythm in the passing of the seasons from winter to spring to summer to
fall, but there is a certain rhythm in passing from work to play and play to work, and it is the
change and the contrast that in part produce the spark which makes life vital and challenging.

I am not one of those who feel that men without long school education are not capable of
using leisure wisely. There is much of education that comes to many men from life itself, and I
have seen men back in the mountains who had had almost no schooling but who had great ca-
pacity for the wise use of their own leisure.

Of course, it is recognized that men cannot play polo or football or golf or tennis all the
“time and iind a completely satisfactory life. Practically every man has so many sides to his nature

that he feels dwarfed and thwarted and twisted if certain parts of his nature are left unused. Too

much sport like too much work leaves a man only partially himself and only partially satisfied.
l. Many men suffer in the pursuit of happiness without knowing at all why they suffer. They seek an
unknown God. They feel that something is wanting but they do not know what it is. It is
ltthe task of society to open up the roads down through the trees and up the mountains, into the

books, into the poetry and the music of the world, so that each individual can see for himself which
of the paths really lead upward, really lead to light and understanding and to growth for each
particular individual. Recreation may become just as tiring and as nerve-racking as work itself unless
it is suited to the particular individUal concerned. Of course, it is understood that each individual
must be his own regulator and must make his own choices, his own decisions as to what will give him

satisfying life, what will'help to keep him a civilized human being, a real child of God.

‘ But no man, surely, will quite reach Mount Olympus who has not learned satisfaction in
work as well as in the joy that follows after work.

 

l

 

 

 

l

n W— 
I

ll
zINOVEMB-ER 1940
I:

 

 

461

November

‘ ‘ ' «2-! 

N

Photo by Anita Fowicr “  r ‘ .,_. N
can“). P010 Alto’ conform“ Comm“m'ty Children’s Theaté

462

 

Recreation and Better Human Relations

AUSE and conse—
C quence make up
the substance of

our lives. We look be-
. fore and after, and pine
i for what is not. Our
1 prerogative is also our
burden. “We look be—
fore and after.” And
in looking before and after what do we see?

: ___-u......—__..t... ..

Behind me stands the haming sword
The Vales of Eden trod no more;

And bitter, dark, and unexplored,
The alien deserts wait before.

\Ve have grown out of barbarism by knowledge
of cause and consequence. Our ability to predict
the future is the unit measure of our civilization.
What we predict is the measure of its quality.

Haj ji, the Turk of legend and fable, was once
'seated on a branch of a tree, sawing off the limb
between himself and the trunk. “Don’t do that,
Hajii,” said a bystander, “you will get a nasty
fall.” “Oh, I think not,” said Haj ji, complacently,
and continued to saw through the limb. Sure
enough, it broke, and let Haj j i down to the ground
.in a mighty tumble. He gathered his.wits to-
gether, and then bowed low before the bystander.
t‘A prophet,” he cried, and followed him into
town, with salaams of praise. Thus the bystander
pbtained a great reputation for prophecy, and

inade his fortune. This was the beginning of
wisdom.

Now play, or recreation, is life with cause and
consequence subtracted. The child playslbest, be—
cause he is unconscious of these twin guardians of
man’s lot. When we wish to play, we merely
banish cause and consequence and live at ease in
the present.

Then why have I chosen as my subject “Recre-
ation and Better Human Re-
lations”? Certainly not be—
cause I believe recreation
should be encouraged in

l order to make human rela-
tions better. To do that
would be to take out of play
the very quality that keeps
it play. We play for the

An educator who believes there is iust
one reason for encouraging play tells

very convincingly what that reason is!

By HENRY NOBLE MACCRACKEN, Ph.D.
PresidentI Vassar College

Dr. MacCraclcen delivered this address on
the evening of October the second at the
Twenty-Fifth National Recreation Congress
held in Cleveland. Ohio, September 30-
October 4. I940. The printed Proceedings
of the Congress. containing all of the main
addresses and the summaries of the dis-

cussion meetings will be ready for distri-
bution about November lst. Pricel $|.00.

pleasure of play, sim-
ply because we are hu-
man. Play is an ad-
venture into the primi-
tive, when we become
as little children and are
refreshed by the
absence of care. Play
is not an escape from
reality, because the primitive is in us and of us,
having come with us through physical and social
heredity to social maturity. Play is as much a part
of our nature as thought. It was there first. Most
of this escape talk is all nonsense, the offspring
of a sterile intellectualism that has cost us very
dear in insanity, in crime, in reckless speed, and
other emotional outlets that entail the most tragic
consequences to one’s self and to others.

So I do not say, encourage recreation in order
to have better human relations. Encoumge recrea—
tion for one reason only, because people want it.
The more civilized we become, the more we need
play. As sleep restores the physical process, so
play restores the processes of personal and social
adjustment. All I say is, we shall never have
better human relations until the spirit of play is
carried into them, until we like people without
thought of cause and consequence.

I hate all spurious play that is really business
under another name. The deadly seriousness of
the bridge table, the other gamblers at the races,
the prize fight, the football massacre, the Olympic
mimic war; these are all tragedies of play be-
trayed, seduced, and sold for profit into slavery,
pitiful relics of what once was lovely and of good
report, which offered recreation only to those
minds from which cause and consequence have
been washed away in the erosion of successive
cocktails. Unhappy folks! You can see by their
faces how much recreation
is theirs.

But come with me fish—
ing in the trout stream, and
watch the play of delight
cross the features of the
angler as he plays his trout.
What does the “Compleat
Angler” say?

463

464 RECREATION AND BETTER HUMAN RELATIONS

No life, my honest scholar, no life so happy and so
pleasant as the life of a well—governed angler; for when
the lawyer is swallowed up with business and the states-
man is preventing or contriving plots, then we sit on
cowslip banks, hear the 'birds sing, and possess ourselves
in as much quietness as these silent silver streams which
we now see glide so quietly :by 'us. Indeed, my good
scholar, we may say of such angling as Dr. Boteler said
of strawberries, “Dou-btless God could have made a better
berry, but doubtless God never did”; and so if I might
be judge; “God never did make a more calm, quiet,
innocent recreation than angling.”

Or the pleasure of Andrew Marvell in his garden.

How vainly men themselves amaze

To win the palm, the oak, or bays,
And their incessant labours see
Crowned from some single herb, or tree,
Whose short and narrow-verged shade
Does prudently their toils upbraid,
While all the flowers and trees do close
To weave the garlands of repose!

Fair Quiet, have I found thee here,
And Innocence, thy sister dear?
Mistaken long, I sought you then
In busy companies of men.

Your sacred plants, if here below,
Only among the plants will grow;
Society is all but rude

To this delicious solitude.

What wondrous life is this I lead!
Ripe apples drop about my head;

The luscious clusters of a vine

Upon my mouth do crush their wine;
The nectarine, and curious peach, '
Into my hands themselves do reach;
Stumbling on melons, as I pass,
Ensnared with flowers, I fall on grass.

Meanwhile the mind, from pleasure less,
Withdraws into its happiness;

The mind, that ocean where each kind
Does straight its own resemblance fin-d; -
Yet it creates, transcending these,

Far other worlds, and other seas,
Annihilating all that’s made

To a green thought in a green shade.

I wish that Americans loved their gardens and
took their recreation in them as the English do”.
We may listen to the moSt English of all poets,

John Milton, as he takes his immortal walks, one_

with mirth, and one with sober melancholy, and
tells us the pleasures of rising at dawn and join-
ing in the life of the countryside with the whist-

ling plowman, the singing milkman, and the village
dancers.

When the merry bells ring round
And the jocund rebecks sound
To many a youth and many a maid

Dancing in the chequered shade.

O

Or, in his sober mood, as takes his contemplated
walk,

To behold the wandering moon
Riding near her highest noon,

Or, in I! Pemeroso, turning for pleasure to the
joys of reading and reflection, for these, too, are
recreation.

John Milton was but the lirst of a long line of
poets of pleasure, who sang of their favorite rec-
reation, the pleasures of hope, the pleasures of the
imagination, the pleasure of sensibility, and other
activities of no consequence, for of such is the
kingdom of joy. All art, indeed, is of no conse-
quence except only that it brings contentment
through relief and rest, and renewal of spirit.
Walt Whitman, the unabashed, exclaimed, “I loaf,
and invite my soul.” Henry Thoreau, whose New
England star is now in the ascendant more than
any other, taught his fellow countrymen how sim-
ple were the essential things, and even more simple
the essential recreations.

This is the beginning of better human relations,
that we ourselves should be well fitted to have _
them, but we do not know them well when we are
harassed and preoccupied. As parents of the baby
unborn prepare themselves to receive the gift of a
new life, so the person who wants to improve his ’
human relations prepares himself to deserve them.
I know of no better medicine than recreation for
such preparation.

My wife and I have lately been custodians of a
little English girl who came to us out of the bap-

tism of shelliire. It has been interesting to see

how play has quickly made her one of a group of
children perfectly at home in a new land. The
spirit of play is one with all other spirits. Shake-
speare’s Prince Hal in a moment of the gayest rec-
reation cried, “I am now of all humours that have
made themselves humours, from the pupil age of I:
Goodman Adam to this present twelve o’clock at ~j
midnight.” I can recall no more eloquent tribute :-
than this to the spirit of play.

But though play has this magic quality of dis- .
solving enmities and prejudices, we have no right 3
to capitalize it and debase it to such purposes, no J
matter how high such purposes may be. WC.
should play for the sake of play, not in order to
keep our health, however important health may ;‘
be. The argument which we use with city gov—
ernments in obtaining playgrounds, that recrea-
tion improves the public health, may be a good
practical argument, but it should have no part in

RECREATION AND BETTER HUMAN RELATIONS 465

"Play with no aim. no obiect. only the icy
of doing it, has effects on us that are so
deep seated we dare not, we cannot. leave
it out of well-ordered living."—Dr. Arthur
T. Morgan, President of Antioch College.

P

our exercise of the privileges of play. The argu-
nent that playgrounds tend to improve the morals
of those who attend them, and to reduce our la—
Inentable rise in juvenile delinquency may be valid
with our city fathers, but it should be forgotten
on theplayground. Even the argument that play-
lgrounds with their dance and song and joy of
:xercise tend to give new ideals of beauty in
nOtion and in music, of which American children
are so sorely in need, however much it may at—
"ract visitors who love to see the human form
‘livine, should not weigh with us as we employ
and deve10p the spirit of play. These things we
liught to do, but not to leave the other undone.
These are cultural and civic responsibilities, but
t is unfair to burden people with them. We
should encourage these things for themselves, and
[incorporate them as the essential bases of our
leducation. In so doing they may become the nat-
Viral environment of play, but people should not
«)ve compelled to support them.
Ir In pleasure, better human relations must exist
in order that we may play. We do not play in
brder that better human relations may exist. Yet
we may be glad that recreation can exist only
{when human relations are at their best, for the
,l)est of all human relations is a contented and
joyous mind.
i The children sing in far Japan.
’ The children sing in Spain.

The organ with the organ man
' Is singing in the rain.
| At least, I hope the children sing in far Japan,
lmd I certainly hope they sing in Spain, in Ger-
linany, in Poland, in Russia, and in England. They
‘sing in praise of Stalin, and of Hitler. They sing
gf England, and of the holy emperor of Japan,
but at least they sing, and I hope they do not
understand too well what the words mean. Out
of the song comes the dance, and out of the dance
comes the drama. All of these are but the over-
;,=..|low from the contented mind in an exuberant
body. I know of no part of our education which
Lincludes both work and play more valuable than
these.

I am delighted to participate this evening in a

   

l

 

 

 

 

 

Courtesy Journal of Health and Physical Education

program which begins with group singing, and
which carries on to folk dances and social danc—
ing. I feel thoroughly at home in such a program,
for I am and always have been, since I first took
office twenty-six years ago, a college president
who himself sings, and dances, and acts, and plays
with his faculty colleagues and with his students.
My first appearance before the employees of Vas-
sar College twenty—five years ago was when I led
several hundred of them as we danced a Paul
Jones. I have danced with them ever since. One
evening when I had been acting in a vaudeville
with my students, one of my aristocratic gradu-
ates came up and greeted me with the words, “It
is really very nice of you, Dr. MacCracken, to be
willing to make such a fool of yourself before
your students.” I could but acquiesce in the epi—
thet, but I did not repent.

One day, as I was playing baseball and was put
out in trying to stretch a two—base hit into a
three-bagger, and slid into third base in vain, a
trustee stepped up to me as I was brushing my-
self off on leaving the diamond and said, “What
on earth are you doing, President MacCracken P”
I replied, “You told me when 'I came to Vassar
that you wanted me to get into contact with the
student body, and now that I have just come into
contact with the student body, why are you com-

466 RECREATION AND BETTER HUMAN RELATIONS

plaining?” As I approach my sixtieth birthday,
I feel, like the \Vife of Bath, “It tikleth me about
myen herte roote, that I have had my world as
in my tyme.”

Though I no longer enact the roles of youthful
lovers or daring heroes, I can still bind up a leg
and stump through the part of Long John Silver
in “Treasure Island,” or sing and dance my way
through the court of good King Hildebrand in
Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Princess Ida,” or pick my-
self up from a bed of leaves in Jo Jefferson’s “Rip
Van Winkle” and find a long white beard upon
my face. To me it is the keenest recreation to play
Theseus to my son Hippolytus in the Greek of
Euripides, or even Menelaus, or in a Sanscrit
play interpret Vasavadatta. I_have been a citizen
of Good Queen Bess’ London, and a professor in
a Soviet laboratory, Lorenzo de Medici in an
Italian pageant, and a fat priest in “The Revels
of Kenilworth Castle.” I have been all things to
all students, not of subtle policy if haply I might
be popular with some, but simply and wholly be-
cause I liked it, and I commend my most undig-
nified example to my brothers in the other col-
lege presidencies. It would be better for all of
them if they followed the example of good Bishop
Richard Corbet of Oxford, in 1630, of whom
John Aubrey tells:

-His chaplaine, Dr. Lushington, was a very learned and
ingeniose man, and they loved one another. The bishop
I sometimes would take the key of the wine-cellar and he
and his chaplaine would goe and lock themselves in and
be merry. Then first he layes downe his episcopal hood,—
“There lyes the Dr.” Then he putts off his gowne,—
“There lyes the BishOp.” Then ’twas,—“Here’s to thee,
Corbet,” and “Here’s to thee, Lushington.”

I have been lately reading for my sins the auto—
biography of a famous American educator, who
calls his book “I Remember.” I have not finished
it, so I cannot say whether in the whole volume
he' mentions recreation. All I can say is that
neither recreation nor play appear in his Index.
I could wish that these words headed the list of
his achievements. We all of us take ourselves too
seriously. In appointing a professor, I had rather
know in what he finds his
pleasure than how many
hours he works. There is
one colleague of mine whom
I never really knew until
one day we ventured forth
in a light canoe and ran the
Hooded waters of the W ap-

"My parting word to you who have given
yourselves to the profession of making it
possible for others to play is this: Let me
urge you that you' too. continue yourselves
to play in the dance of life. Do not bind
life up in red tape and professional iealous-
ies. Keep your profession true to its idealI
that play is of valuell in itself alone."

pingers Creek after an early spring freshet. The
canoe dumped us out, of course, and as we swam
our flooded boat to the cove shore, I felt for the
first time that I really knew the man. I was not
surprised when later he accepted the presidency
of our local Recreation Association and assumed
responsibility for a campaign for recreation cen—
ters in our county that was most fruitful.

The silliest of all the silly notions that we de—
scendants of the Puritans have inherited about this;
whole matter of recreation is that it is somehow
undignified, but dignity is a garment we can safely

' leave to hang upon a closet hook along with aca-‘

demic robes and hoods. The most serious and dig-'_
nified people often play bestand love their recrea—i
tion more for it. We know how Socrates joined}
his friends in pleasant walks about the city of,
Athens, participated in the pleasures of the,
palestra, or was made welcome at a banquet of}
phi1050phers. '
When my father, who had been for twenty;
years Chancellor of New York University, under-
took singlehanded to tackle the grand dukes of
football and to reform the game so that it might:
become the sport of decent men, he was accused:
by an opponent, a football coach, of being an old__
fogey who knew nothing of the sport. It was at:
the first intercollegiate conference, at which he
presided, and which organized the National Col-
lege FOotball Association. My father made no?
answer in words, but simply held up the crookedf'
finger of his right hand, which had been broken?
in the game of football twenty years before the,-
coach was born. Recreation is the prerogative of
no age and of no temperament, and as folks grow
old they should not forget to play. I
Our Founder’s Day at Vassar comes about the'
first of May, and every year the students tell me -
it is the best day of the year. We celebrate our"
founder’s birthday with ’due decorum and wreathe a
his grave and that of other servants of the college
with spring flowers. The rest of the day is given,'
over to joyous play together, in which faculty and”
students mingle in perfect equality. What it does ;
for the spirit of the college I could not begin to.
tell you. I can only say that? i
it makes us one. i
In ancient times, as win-3,- 
ter clamped its rule upon the '
land and the dark nights. i
were longest, a feast was, ,
held, for men had faith that I

(Continued on page 505)

 A Layman Looks at the Cleveland Congress

W'hitehead who some-
. where has written that
.i religion is what one does
.with his solitariness. Cer-
tainly Dr. \Vhitehead did not intend to reduce the
whole of religion to those moments when man
A was alone, but with rare insight into the nature
iof man’s relationships he saw that so much of
man’s life is planned for him by every day cir—
'cumstances so that what he does with those
' moments when he is largely on his own determines
the bent of his soul.
i How a man does his main job is important.
1But a man may be a success in business and a
1 failure in life. He may gain the whole world in
matters of work and lose his own soul in matters
of leisure. lAlexander the Great gained virtually
the whole of the then known world as his legions
lpenetrated even into the depths of Arabia. As a
1 conqueror the world has never seen his equal.
l' But there is an old saying: “He that ruleth his
f: spirit is greater than he that taketh a city.”
ilAlexander succumbed to the oppulence of Baby-
ilonia and his empire began quietly to disintegrate.
On the other hand, a man may be a failure in
ibusiness and a success in leisure because he knows
I‘ how to use it wisely.
l] Now, curiously enough, the Cleveland Congress
1 of the National Recreation Association seemed to
Uemphasize the same idea. Granting that much of
1a person’s life moves in certain well-defined
grooves, speakers and discussion leaders alike,
liday after day, were saying that the whole man
limust be judged by what he does with his solitari-
‘ ’ness, or, if you prefer, his leisure moments.
1 Several definite impressions remain with one
as he looks back on those five busy days in
Cleveland.

First, there seemed to be unexpected agree-
I.ment on the fundamentals of this thing called
1 “recreation.” In days when conflicting funda-
Tmental philosophies are blasting men apart this
‘unexpected unanimity was certainly refreshing.
'But here agreement ended. The Congress fairly
bristled with healthy differences of opinion about
Imethods, approaches, techniques, and tools; these
’differences guaranteed lively discussions and
istimulating platform addresses.

IT Is, I THINK, Dr. A. N.
l

 

 

 

 

i
ll

By REV. DONALD B. CLOWARD

Treasurer
Recreation Commission

Auburn. New York

This suggests a second
impression no less signifi-
cant. There seemed to be an
absence of dogmatism.
Even a delegate in the back
seat, a mere observer on the fringe of recreation,
did not feel that he was being talked down to by
experts. He was drawn into every discussion
without regard to his humble place in the move-
ment. Day after day professional workers and
lay leaders sat together committed to a common
inquiry into the ways to make democracy func-
tion better through the wise use of leisure time.
Only the person who has attended and partici-
pated in gatherings where the masses are used as
a sounding board for the few who know all the
answers can appreciate this difference. It needs
to be said, however, in this connection, that a
national recreation congress, unlike many gather-
ings, does bring together many men and women
who though not all engaged in the specialized held
of recreation are trained and tested leaders in
some field of human relations. This was realized
in at least one discussion on the place of volun—
teers when someone reminded the group that in
every community there are individuals who know
more about some particular subject related to
recreation that any one professional leader could

hope to know.

This leads to yet another observation. Board
members, while still greatly in the minority,
though there seemed to be a few more present
than in Pittsburgh two years ago, add a certain
flavor to the congresses. The best interpreters of
the broad aims of recreation in any community
are not the paid executives but well-informed
members of the commissions, boards and advisory
groups. There is always a danger that profes-
sional leadership in a movement will move out
too far ahead of the public it seeks to serve.
From such a danger the National Recreation As-
sociation is not immune. Superintendents of public
recreation could hardly do a better piece of service
this year than to promote the idea of having at
least one board member present at next year’s
Congress. Such a plan might well be supple-
mented also by having the field men set up one day

(Continued on page 511)
467

Christmas Caroling on Wheels

ATWO-TON service From Memphis and from Washington depart for other streets

truck from the De-

partment of Recre-
ation in Memphis, Ten-
nessee, is transformed
each December into a
living Christmas Caroliglij
which tours the city with a band of happy-voiced
children singing all the old familiar Yuletide songs.

Uprights are erected on the open truck and a
cardboard top is added. Cellophane enclosing three
sides of the framework gives the illusion of peep-
ing into the truck through windows. Evergreen
garlands cover the outside of the truck body and
a sparkling sign wishes everyone a “Merry Christ—
mas from the Memphis Park Commission.” The
front of the truck cab bears a similar sign spot-
lighted from overhead.

Inside the truck silver stars are painted on the
blue walls. A tiny red organ and seat are erected
in one corner and the floor is filled with hay.
Eight gaily costumed carolers, a director, trum-
peter, and organist constitute a truck load. The
interior of the truck is illuminated by four flood-
lights which are turned on only while the children
are singing. The lights and generator are loaned
by a citizen of Memphis.

The Park Commission driver with the best
safety record for the year drives the Carol Truck,
and all strive for the honor. The route through the
city is mapped out for the driver by a member of
the Recreation Department’s executive staff who
precedes the truck in a car. {

The truck leaves from a different community
center each evening at seven o’clock and returns
before nine. Stops are made at the homes of mem-
bers of the community center family who have
given outstanding service, at homes of shut-in
friends, and at institutions in the neighborhood.

At each stop the truck is parked at the curb in
front of the door and floodlights are turned on.
As the Trumpeter announces the arrival of the
Christmas carolers, the organ takes up the refrain
and the children raise their voices in the old songs.
All those who live in the neighborhood of the
honored home rush out to enjoy the concert, since
only a short stop is made at each place. When the
song is over, the children wish everyone a “Merry
Christmas,” lights are dimmed, and the carolers

468

come suggestions for umotorizing
Christmas caroling. Why not try Cal-01 Truck starts out
out this idea in your community?

it and other homes.
On Christmas Eve the

at 5 :30 and makes a more,
comprehensive tour of?
the city, visiting the,
homes of city officials, members of the Park].
Board, and other friends.

The children’s costumes carry out the tradi:
tional Christmas scheme of red, green, gold, Ma—
donna blue, and royal purple with glittering trim-,
mings. They are made to be slipped on and worn
over ordinary outdoor clothing and can be aca-
cented by bright woolen gloves, warm scarf,
or cap.

A different group of carolers makes the trip;
every evening, thus giving as many children as,
possible an opportunity to take part. The eight;
singers from each center are selected for their.
voices and rehearse for two weeks before their;
evening. No effort is made for professionalism,
and the spontaneous enthusiasm makes up for any.
lack of harmony.

For three years the Spangled Christmas Carol!
has made its musical way on wheels and the chilj
dren of Memphis have spent the week before

. Christmas doing their small part to bring to their:

modern city the ancient “Peace on Earth—Good
Will Toward Men.”

Washington, too, had its traveling carolers
sponsored by the Department of Community Cen-.
ters and Playgrounds. This time it was a street
car decorated with evergreens and wreaths in
which the carolers made their two journeys, and;
so lustily and harmoniously did the boys and girls?
sing that many people stopping along the way:

found themselves joining in the singing.

Just before Christmas last year, one of the fleet
of “Magic Arks” sent by the Shell Oil Company
to tour Western cities, visited nineteen of Sari
Francisco’s playgrounds. Decked out in all colors
of the rainbow, the huge ark was arranged to
open out on one side, forming a stage with our?
tains and drapes, and disclosing an interior which,
depicted a wild animal menagerie. Joey, the clown}:
the Great W'izard, with his magic, the Music, Matti

and Santa Claus himself entertained the children.r

f
l

r .

It Happened Last Christmas

ll Christmas Tree."
0 Detroit’s 1939
Christmas began
oflicially on December
23rd, when Mayor-elect
Edward J. Jeffries lifted
eight year old Betty Madaj to the switch which
she pulled, lighting up the sixty foot tree on the
lawn of City Hall, and fifty Recreation Depart-
ment Choristers sang “0 Christmas Tree.” The
background for the ceremony was a tableau repre-
‘ senting the birth of the Christ Child, showing the
,Holy Family, the crude manger and the shep-
‘ herds and the Magi offering their gifts. The
' parts were taken by members of the dramatic
.clubs sponsored by the Recreation Department.
' The Mayor extended Christmas greetings to the
7citizens who thronged around the scene, and Ray-
mond Kelly, National Commander of the Ameri-
can Legion, presented the tree to the city as the
,gift of 40 and 8, Voiture 102, of the American
‘Legion. The chorus sang five numbers, and the
(soloist contributed carols. The
.Recreation Boys’ Band played
Christmas selections from 5:00

Every year communities all over the
country celebrate Christmas. Here
is a sampling of some ot the activi-
ties ot this happy holiday season.

The citizens of Lincolnl Nebraska.
are exceedingly enthusiastic over
the city's annual Christmas parade

to 5:30 P. M., when the
official program started.
The selections were
broadcast over WW], the
Detroit N ews.

Each year a crippled
girl from the Children’s Convalescent Home is
selected for the honor of lighting Detroit’s tree.
Betty Madaj, who lighted the tree in 1939, was a
tubercular spine patient who had not walked in
three years and who spent all but a few minutes
a day lying on a frame. A local ambulance com-
pany brought her from the Home which is in the
suburbs of Detroit and returned her there. The
company has performed this service for fifteen
years.

The municipal tree has the cooperation of three
city departments. The Recreation Department
plans and executes the program; the Fire Depart-
ment brings its ladders to put the lights on the
tree; and the Public Lighting Commission takes
care of the electrical work.

Trees for the Department’s
eight community centers, also
presented by Voiture 102, were

 

469

470 IT HAPPENED LAST CHRISTMAS

lighted on Friday evening preceding Christmas,
and the children attending the centers sang carols
around the trees while waiting for Santa Claus to
arrive.

Other features of the Christmas celebration in—
cluded the singing of carols at hospitals, orphan-
ages, and old people’s homes by groups from the
Recreation ' Department. Dozens of Christmas
plays were presented in schools and community
centers by the recreation dramatic clubs in con-
junction with dance groups who gave their ser—
vices to provide Christmas entertainment for their

community.

A Modern Bethlehem. The turn of a switch by
Governor John E. Miles on December 10th last
year transformed the mining town of Madrid,
New Mexico, into a modern Bethlehem. Figures
and scenes of the first Christmas were suddenly
Hoodlighted against the pine and cedar hills about
twenty miles south of Santa Fe. Bowers of dec-
orated arches and miles of sparkling, living Christ—
mas trees appeared under tall lighted candles and
forty thousand electric lights. From over the hills
powerful machines brought the angels’ message,
and the strains of “Noel,” “Silent Night, Holy
Night,” “Oh, Little Town of Bethlehem,” and “It
Came Upon a Midnight Clear” drifted down on
the scene from hidden amplifying systems.

The story of the birth of Christ was told in
huge dioramas and oil paintings, one of which
measured thirty—three feet. Following the story
 paintings, one saw Mary and Joseph leave Naz-—
alreth to go to Bethlehem, the Nativity scene, the
shepherds on the hillside outside the walled city,
the search of the Wise Men, and the flight of the
Holy Family from Bethlehem. Other pictures
showed Christ visiting with the doctors, and a huge
oil painting of Christ at maturity could be seen
on the highest peak near Madrid. More than
60,000 visitors made the pilgrimage to the twenty-
fOur day pageant.

.7 In ClearwaterI Florida. The Recreation Depart-
ment of Clearwater last year assisted the Lions
Club with its community Christmas tree and free
" movie for all the children under fourteen years of
age, who received gifts and fruit. It also aided
the Kiwanis Club in sponsoring a Christmas tree
fbr underprivileged children. Fruit, candy, and
nuts were given to the children, and there was a
short program in which the Clearwater High
School band, Santa Claus, and many others par-
ticipated.

Christmas Cheer Week. Christmas Cheer Week

—the week between Christmas and New Year’s—
has become a well—loved tradition in Salt Lake
City, Utah, and each night during the week a
special program is given. Tickets are issued for
the programs which are held in the largest high
school auditorium in the city.

Two years ago the success of the annual civic
opera led to the decision to organize the Salt Lake
City Opera Association and to present a grand
opera during the Christmas Cheer Week program.
In 1939, Faust was given. It was an ambitious
undertaking, and some exceptionally fine soloists'
and a well trained orchestra'made it a success.

In addition to grand opera, the Salt Lake Civic
Orchestra, which is sponsored by the Recreation
Department, presented a sacred Christmas pro-
gram two days before Christmas in cooperation
with the choir of one of the churches. It was the,
first time the Recreation Department had pre-,.
sented such a program, and so beautiful did it}
prove to be that the Department is planning to.
present a similar program this year with the choir
of another church.

On Christmas evening, Salt Lake City had a.
tree lighting service on the City and County Build—,-
ing grounds, when Commissioner Goggin wished
everyone a “Merry Christmas.” The program was-
broadcast and thousands of trees throughout the-
city were lighted simultaneously with the com-1.
munity Christmas tree. All of the carol groups of.’
the city assembled at the tree lighting service and
began their caroling there.

Each year on the day before Christmas the Rec-
reation Department’s Harmonica Band presents a'
program. The children, some 150 strong, assemble
at the City and County Building and play several
carols on their harmonicas. From this point theyl
go to the hotels and to one or two of the depart—ll
ment stores and give a carol program. After this_§|
they are entertained at one of the theaters asl
guests of the management. It is a thrilling time
both for the children and those who hear the1n,j
and far more than the music that is presented"
the spectators enjoy the delight of the children in
performing for them.

Each year on the day after Christmas there is a
children’s parade. At this time Santa Claus, whq’
pays his visit under the auspices of the Chamber
of Commerce, arrives officially and is welcomed by
thousands of children in costume. In the evening

IT HAPPENED LAST CHRISTMAS 471

r‘another parade is held, and at this time the decora-
tions and lighting are displayed.

"A Christmas Gift to the People of Lansing."
'The Lansing, Michigan, federal orchestra, the
:Michigan State College a cappella choir, and Lans-
“iing’s Civic Players Guild joined forces last De-
:Ucember for a community Christmas program at
iPrudden Auditorium, sponsored by the Recreation
Department. The participating organizations called
itheir concert “a Christmas gift to the people
“of Lansing.” and a delightful gift it proved to
be! The a cappella choir sang English, Catalon-
iian, and Mexican carols; the federal orchestra
rpresented Saint Saens’ “Carnival of the Animals,”
land the production of the Players Guild was “The
“Saint” with offstage music by the girls’ choir of
Plymouth Congregational Church. Community
‘ singing was a part of the program.

l

 

 

"Here We Come A-Carolling!" For several

reation Board has conducted a novel Christmas
Eve carol program on the Village Hall lawn. Last
year a number of novel changes were made which

i-ldded greatly to the interest of the occasion.

 During the week preceding the carol program

; :he choirs of the various Village churches met in
.’1 local office building where they sang carols for
'1bout an hour. Many of the villagers belonging
i‘LO the churches represented came to take part in
the singing on these evenings. A Hammond organ
was secured, and a capable organist was on hand

f. lo provide accompaniments for the carols.

l: The Chamber of Commerce provided the dec-
larations for the final program and arranged for
tn amplifier system which covered all the various
iusiness sections. The organist played carols
.hroughout the afternoon and evening so that

l :arol music could be heard almost any time in all
“arts of the town. Song sheets were donated by
5he Wilmette Life, and the village of Wilmette
'nrovided the lighting.

On Christmas Eve a program was held on the
lillage Hall steps, and those present were wel-

, omed by Village President Harry C. Kinne. The
‘Iammond organ was used for the occasion with
mplifier attachments. The carols which had been

ilehearsed throughout the schools and churches
were sung, and the choirs which had been rehears-
ng throughout the week were in attendance to

l ssist the song leader in the singing. And, as a
limax to the singing, from the top of Village

, {all there came floating over the air the voice of

 

 

 

‘ years the Wilmette, Illinois, Playground and Rec-_

an unseen soloist singing one of the favorite old
carols.

Community Cooperation in Tucson. Each year
in TUCson, Arizona, the secretary of the local Wel-
fare Board calls to his office representatives of all
civic and social agencies to plan for the annual
community Christmas celebration. This grOUp ap~
points soliciting, purchasing, “get-the-trees,” music
and program committees, and begins work. The
tree committee borrows a large truck from the
Welfare Board and makes a trip to the 8,000 foot
level of MOUnt Lemmon in the Catalina Moun-
tains eighty—three miles away where, with the con-
sent of the forest ranger, they cut down thirty
trees. These trees are distributed to all of the
hospitals and institutions of the city, and a forty
foot tree is erected at the city’s main intersection.
It is lighted profusely by the Tuscon Electric
Company.

The Lions Club serves as sponsor of the event,
in cooperation with the Department of Play-
grounds and Recreation and the Professional and
Service Division of WPA, which provides super-
vision.

During the years of 1933, 1934, and 1935.
candy, fruit, and gifts were distributed to the chil-
dren who gathered around the tree, but recently
with the improvement of economic conditions the
number of gifts has been reduced. The balance is
distributed on Christmas Day to the five children’s
institutions. Money for the expenses of the cele-
bration is raised a week before Christmas by the
Big Brothers, who sell a special edition of the
Arizona Daily Star on a no-change-back basis.

“Most people don’t know that Santa Claus is
really a native of New York. The Dutch settlers
brought him to New Amsterdam as a pale-faced
ascetic dressed in his antique bishop’s robes. But
after New Amsterdam became New York, Clement
Moore transformed the charitable saint—and I '
rather think St. Nicholas liked the change too—into
a rosy-checked, plump and jolly old man with
reindeer and sleigh to bring presents to good little
boys and girls. And at the same time he was pro-
moted from his own December sixth to Christmas
itself, or rather the Night Before Christmas. His
fame quickly spread to the homelands across the
sea, and in Holland and Germany, as well as in
England, he became popular as the secret dis—
penser of holiday presents to young and 01d.”—
H orace J. Gardner in Let’s Celebrate Christmas.

A Twelfth Night Festival

HEN SEVEN hundred
w evergreen trees went
up in a Twelfth Night
blaze on the evening of Janu-
ary 5, 1940, Christmas was officially over in North
Sacramento, but the flames against the dark Cali-

fornia sky were already foretelling another festi-
val for 1941.

The city had had a successful community
Christmas celebration under the leadership of the
Recreation Department. The main thoroughfare
had been decorated with illuminated Christmas
trees, trimmings for which
had been made from scraps
of tin secured at a near-by
cannery. Toys had been re-
paired and distributed, and
community parties held. But
civic leaders, encouraged by
the joyous Yuletide spirit of
the citizens, felt there should
be some appropriate commu—
nity closing for the holidays.

It was the age-old Twelfth
Night story which provided
inspiration for a festival to
be climaxed, not by the burning of a yule log, but
by a huge bonfire of discarded Christmas trees.

In planning for the celebration each local or-
ganization was asked to send a representative to a
meeting where a celebration might be outlined.
In this meeting tentative plans were drawn up
and turned over to the Recreation Department for
its guidance. Workers delved into encyclopedias
and reference books, sought out libraries and his-
tory books, consulted with religious organizations
on the signilicance of Twelfth Night and, armed
with this data, proceeded to set up a program for
January 5th. ' ,

When North Sacramento decided to adopt the
Twelfth Night Festival for its own, Mayor Ken-
neth Hammaker issued a formal proclamation
calling all citizens to celebrate the end of the Yule
season. Since this festival is comparatively new
in the United States, radio and newspapers co-
operated very well with publicity.

The Boy Scout troops of the community gath-
ered up Christmas trees from private homes to be

472

By T. BANCROFT RICE

WPA Area Supervisor of Recreation
North Sacramentol California

Twelfth NightI the eve of EpiphanyI is so
called from the fact that it is the twelfth
night after Christmas. Early Christians
celebrated the feast of Christ's nativity
for twelve days and gave special signifi-
cance to the twelfth day on which the Three
Kings found the Christ Child in Bethle-
hem. The observance has generally fallen
into disuseI although during the Middle
Ages it was an‘important feastl and in
many European countries the eve of Epiph-
any became a great festal day with mas-
querading parties and happy celebrations.

burned in a huge bonfire, and
the Street Department vol;
unteered to collect the tin
decorated evergreens which
had lined Del Paso Boulevard during the holiday;
season. A pile of trees was made on the softball
field, and the big American Legion tree stood
proudly upright in the center. '

Meanwhile more research had gone into the
program. In many countries the Twelfth Night
Festival is also referred to as the Bean King’s
Festival. A large cake is baked and a bean placed
in the center. The cake is cut
at the ceremony, and who;
ever receives the piece with
the bean will be King for the
coming year. The bean cake
story was adapted by recrea;
tion leaders and eventually it
grew into two cakes with the
traditional bean in each, one
for a King and one for a
Queen. Each organization of
the community appointed
three of its members to take
part in the cake-cutting cere—
mony and coronation.

Everyone was asked to come in festal costume
and participate in the city-wide parade. Prizes
were.to be awarded for the most original cos-
tume, the most comical, best woman’s, best man’s
costume on a woman, and best funny paper'
character.

The morning of the fifth of January arrived,
beautiful and cloudless, but by noon the day had
suddenly grown gray and rain began to fall iri
late afternoon. The Recreation Department rev?
fused to let its ardor be dampened and went
ahead, although the program was to be out of
doors without canOpies. Fortunately by the tim:
the high school band struck up the first note of th:
festival at 7 :30 the rain had stopped.

The Reverend Kelmer Roe, chairman of tht
North Sacramento Recreation Commission, opener-I
the program with a few words on the significancgt
of Twelfth Night, and the Boy Scouts performe(
their impressive “lire-lighting” ceremony. Th;-
wet trees were doused with oil, and under tht

A TI’VELFTH NIGHT FESTIVAL

supervision of the Fire De-

partment, the boys set ablaze

an evergreen fire which could

be seen through the dark for

miles. National Guard maneu-

' vers, community singing, a hill-

, billy band, dancing, and games

.: were held on the ball field in
i the light of the bonfire.

Canopied thrones had been

, set upon the platform, and

' little page boys carried crowns

on white pillows for the coro-

' ‘ nation of the King and Queen.

l After Mr. John Lee, secretary

a

 

 

of the North Sacramento
’ Chamber of Commerce, had
duly installed them as rulers
p for 1940, the King and Queen
reviewed the costume parade
' with the judges.
Because the rain had started
 again some of the program
I was omitted, but eight hundred adult participants
l and fifteen hundred spectators went to their homes
. feeling that the Christmas season had been
l brought to a beautiful and fitting close. They
'heartily approved the idea of a king and queen
and are planning to have this year’s rulers act as
host and hostess at the proposed ceremony in
1941, since the festival will be an annual affair
and is expected to become larger every year.
l The Recreation Department is convinced that
' t the Twelfth Night Festival will appropriately end
.lthe Christmas season, welcome the New Year,
fland become a nucleus
I. 1 around which North
Sacramento citizens can
[build a lasting spirit of
 fellowship and good
'lwill.

Twelfth Night pro-
vides the perfect occa-

- sion for‘ a unique party,
' a night of reveling which
gbrings to a close the
holiday season. The
National Recreation As-
sociation has outlined

I SUChapartyinamimeo-
I graphed bulletin under
the caption “Crown

i

(Signed)

I; -; _:*_"‘.‘1’, .
I ' RilCAN’”

 

   I   
‘ J’UNI. RED

Not only at Christmas time but
through the entire year there's
the American Junior Red Cross!

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS. the Recreation Department of North
SacramentoI assisted by the Work Projects Admin-
istrationI Recreation Sectionl has arranged a Twelfth

Night celebration emblematic of the burning of the
l ——"—' Yule log for the night of January 5. I940; and

WHEREAS. all residents of the community are

interested in the endeavor to promote good will and
provide wholesome entertainment for youth; and

WHEREAS. the celebration of Twelfth Night pro-

vides another method for the advancement of the
welfare of the community;

THEREFORE. I' the Mayor of North Sacramento.

do hereby request that all persons who can attend
do so. to the end that the community may revive
the custom of marking the end of the Yule season.

KENNETH HAMMAKER.
Mayor of North Sacramento

473

Your Twelve Months Merrily.”
($.10) Some of the games
suggested center around the
beans which, tradition has it,
occupied a special place in a
Twelfth Night celebration. In
addition such games are de—
scribed as “Country Base,”
mentioned in Shakespeare’s
C ymbeh’ne, and once played in
the streets leading to West-
minster Palace in London until
a law was passed forbidding
the playing of the game while
Parliament was in session;
“Stool Ball,” or “Tower Ball,”
a favorite game among the
milkmaids of the time of Queen
Elizabeth; and “Tempest,” a
country dance from Old Eng-
land. The bulletin also tells of
the ritual involving the Epiph-
any cake in which, if tradition
is to prevail, a bean must be baked. Wassail and
little cakes make up the refreshments for this joy-
ous party, and after the guests have drunk the
'wassail and nibbled at the cakes, then comes the
ceremony of wassailing the house plants, as the
farmers of ancient times wassailed their trees
that they might be strong the next year. So the
couples form a procession behind the King and
Queen and go about the house to each plant. As
an offering of punch is poured upon each, the
revelers cry, in the traditional words: “Twelfth
Night is here! VVassail the tree! With ale and
cake, wassail the tree!”
As the final event, the
guests have a look into
the future as they jump
over twelve lighted can-
dles, one for each
month. If the feat is
accomplished without a
candle being extin-
guished, prosperity and
happiness are in store
for the new year. Then,
“after minstrel mirth
and dancing, every
man departeth to rest,”
and another year be-
comes a part of the
past.

 "  e. L
_ .I'I 

.  -..?..ib& '

Christmas Comes to Texas

HE CITIZENS of Fort Worth, Texas, like to
Tshare their Christmas enjoyment, and the

week-before-Christmas program of their Rec-
reation Board is designed to reach every person in
the community. Early in the week the Municipal
Christmas Tree and Candle Lighting Ceremony is
held; later a Children’s Yule Parade is given in
the city auditorium; and a third program for
colored citizens is presented in the Recreation
building. _

Burkburnett Park, the site of the municipal
tree, is also the setting for the huge triangular
candelabra of fifty electric candles which become
the Christmas symbols of community loyalty and
good will. The double-tiered triangle of lights,
which measures eighteen feet wide and eight and
a half feet from the metal base to the tip of the
tallest candle, is erected each December by the
Recreation Department.

As the date for the candle-lighting ceremony
draws near, forty-nine religious, cultural, civic,
educational, and other organizations cooperate in
the program, and each selects a representative for
the pageant. These citizens are
coached in their parts, the park is
put in readiness, and Fort Worth is
once’ more ready for Christmas.

“Thousands of people throng
the park for the ceremony, and
as the candle-lighting begins,
the faces of the waiting audi-
ence reiiect the multi-colored
lights on the giant Christmas
tree in the background. When
the representative of each group
is introduced to the people, he
turns the switch which lights
his candle and then gives a half-
minute Christmas greeting from
his particular organization.

When the forty-nine greet-
ings have been offered, the
mayor of the city lights the
center candle which towers above
the others and brings a message
from the City of Fort Worth.
Last year’s message was given
by Mayor pro-tern, Marvin D.

474

in

As you enioy the music
and gaiety of Christmas
give a thought to those
need of your help

CHRISTMAS SEALS

'W

 

Help to Protect Your
Home from Tuberculosis

Evans, who was the first president of the Public
Recreation Board and held that office for ten
years. The theme of the program, which was-
broadcast over radio station KGKO was thank-
fulness for peace and hope for warring nations. '

The lighted triangle with the steady gleam of
fifty electric candles provides a brilliant back-
ground for the program of choral music and pan-
tomime which follows. Plots for the sketches are
taken from the Christmas story and Santa Claus,
and various dramatic and choral groups through-
out the city cooperate in the presentation.

While the people of Fort Worth are watching
these impressive services, plans are already under
way for the Children’s Parade which will be given
a few days later. Three hundred children and
adults from the recreation classes take part in the
presentation of dancing, singing and tumbling.»
acts, Christmas carols and a playlet.

Mothers of the children make the costumes for
the party and an appreciative audience turns out
to Municipal Auditorium to see Icicle Soldiers,
SnowHakes, Elves, Drum Majors, Cinderellah
Sleeping Beauty, Bo-Peep and;
Humpty Dumpty, Jack-in-the-Box,
Santa Claus, and hundreds of other
citizens of the land of legend come

to life in the Children’s Parade.
The children consider this their
own Christmas celebration.
And before the week is over.
“Santa’s Toyland Revue,” a
Christmas extravaganza of two'
hundred children, is presented;
in the Recreation Hall for the:
colored citizens of the city;i
once more music and fun reign“
as Shepherds, Ballet Dolls,-
Wooden Soldiers, and Jitter-
bug Dolls sing and dance f01f’
the audience. '
When the week is over pro-.
grams completed and last pag--
eant curtain rung down, the '
Recreation Department of Fort
Worth may well feel that it has ‘
once more done its part to bring
Christmas into every home.

$5

n 
C RIST A

CHRISTMAS COMES TO TEXAS

Houston, Too, Celebrates Christmas

On December 19, I939, Houston’s Tree of
Light was dedicated with impressive ceremonies
before the new City Hall. Hundreds attended the

celebration, an annual event sponsored for the

p past twenty-one years by the city’s Department of

l dramatic performance.

I

. leaux.

I

r' the combined choruses of the
9 Recreation Department and

I
'. serves, and the Settlement

'éAssociation followed the

l
t
l

l

!

icity’s playgrounds carrying

Recreation under the leadership of Miss Corinne
Fonde, Superintendent of Recreation, and financed
by the season’s debutantes, who give a public ball
each year to meet the expenses of the tree and the
elaborate pageant which is presented.

Through the use of Hoodlights on the various
elevations of the City Hall, the pageant depicting
the birth of Christ was given a continuous and
Members of the Com—
munity Players, an organization sponsored by the
Recreation Department, took the parts of the nar-
rators and staged the tab-

Music was furnished by

Y.W.C.A., under the direc-
tion of Coralie Gregory
. Wood, music director.
' Groups of children from the

lighted lanterns, the Girl
' Scouts, Boy Scouts, Girl Re-

‘ choirs in the processional and
r stood as a guard of honor surrounding the Nativity.

The tree towered fifty feet in the air and was
-covered with a thousand twinkling red, blue,

l orange, green, and yellow lights. At the top, the

I

l
l

‘great star alone had more than fifty additional

lblazin g white lights.

Every night, from the dedication of the tree
Ithrough the holiday season, daily vesper services
'were given for an hour beginning at 5:15 P. M.
ion the electric organ of the Recreation Depart-
Iment played by W. R. VVaghorne, music director
lof the Department, and others. Amplifiers were

“placed on the front of the building so that the

Christmas music could be heard for blocks.

Music presented at the dedication of the Tree
of Light included trumpet solos; “Silent Night"
on chimes; “Glory to God in the Highest,” and

lfmway in a Manger” by combined choruses; an
old German carol, “While by Their Sleeping

I'Flock They Lay,” the French “Angel Voices Ever

"This Christmas calls back the laughter. the
bells. the lights. the prayers. the ioys of other
years: it gives us assurance and promise
and faith for the future of our land. We
renew our Christmas purposes—that songs
of peace on earth and icy to the world shall
echo from pine to palm and shore to shore
in this our land; that we shall point our chil-
dren to that star of hope which is the light
of universal understanding and brotherhood:
that America's children shall at least have a
part in placing within the reach of all men
everywhere life's greatest gift—the gift of
human ha ppiness."—Frances S. Pettengill in
"National Parent-Teacher." December I939.

475

Singing,” sung by an adult choir, and “March of
the Magi,” sung by a male chorus. Several other
well-known carols were sung by the choir, audi-
ence joining in. The ceremony was closed with
the recessiona , “Joy to the World.”

Groups were organized and scheduled by the
music division of the Recreation Department to
sing Christmas carols in neighborhoods, at city
and county institutions, hospitals, railroad stations,
hotels, old folks’ homes, Faith Home for Chil-
dren, and other institutions. Caroling books were
loaned to the groups by the Recreation Depart—
ment library. Approximately 5,000 participated.

Appropriate Christmas programs and parties
were held on all playgrounds. Handcraft classes
made decorations and trimmed buildings and trees
on all playgrounds. A number of the playgrounds
furnished Christmas cheer
for poor families in the
neighborhoods.

A Tree of Light for the
colored citizens of the city
was located at Emancipation
Park. School choruses and
bands assisted the colored
division of the Recreation
Department with dedication
ceremonies.

“This is the season of the
Christmas card. Recently I
received a post card from
Stockholm covered with the names of those with
whom we had danced as recently as last August,
but now living in another world, or so at least it
seems. They sent ‘greetings and good wishes to
all.’ I gladly pass on this message of friendship
to ‘all.’ Our Swedish friends assume, as we as-
sume, that a folk dancer of any land is a friend
indeed; a calm assumption that has been justified
in practice at our International Festivals.

“At a Folk Dance Festival we recognize and
appreciate each other’s national differences as
facets of the variety of mankind. These very dif-
ferences invite our interest and our good will.
Assembling such contrasts in the harmony of
dance invokes among us the peace of understand-
ing. What is possible in the dance today is surely
not impossible in the world tomorrow.” Douglas
Kennedy in English Dance and Song, magazine
of the English Folk Dance and Song Society,
December, 1939.

What They Say About Recreation

appreciation of unspoiled natural scenery and

the stories of the natural world these scenes
reveal. we have come to think of contact with
the great out of doors as a remedy or antidote for
conditions peculiar to this industrial world in
which we live.”—Irwin M cCrary in American
Planning and Civic Annual.

N I T SEEMS PROBABLE people are growing in their

“Studies by child psychologists have shown that
children acquire most of their habits and their
attitudes toward life and other people during their
play experiences. These experiences are so im-
portant to every child that if we expect him to
develop normally we must make certain that he is
able to take part in regular, constructive, ade-
quately directed leisure-time activity suited to his
particular interests.”—From Proceedings of the
Juvenile Delinquency Institute, Chattanooga.

“Democracy is a positive, not a negative thing.
Its aim is the welfare of the individual, yet it
recognizes that a good life for the individual is
to be sought only in a good society and in a good
state. . . . Loyalty to democracy necessarily in-
volves active support of those social, economic,
and political arrangements which make possible
an abundant life for each and every person.”—
From Democracy and Education in the Present
Crisis.

“There is no yardstick by which the possibilities
for living can be measured. Each must appraise
the satisfactions of life according to his own
nature, tastes and capacities, for the making of a
full life is inhnitely various, and each person lives
on a different level of experience. It is necessary
to take measure of one’s gains as one goes along,
but always to release these gains in the direction
of freer and better living.”—Sydney Greenbie in
Leisure for Living.

“Our crude civilization engenders a multitude
of wants, and law-givers are ever at their wits’
end devising. The hall and the theater and the
church have been invented, and compulsory edu—

cation. Why not add compulsory recreation ?”—
John M air in 1876.

476

“Whether we accept the meaning of recreation
to be playing games, relaxation, or synonymous
with the broader term ‘leisure-time pursuits,’
thoughtful observation compels us to concede that
it has a definite effect upon the personality of par-
ticipants. . . . As the meaning of recreation has
broadened, so has belief in the efficacy of its train-
ing ability. Recreational activities that were once
considered of no worth and often as downright
sinful are now among the best-used tools in.
building those attitudes and. attributes that make
up a well-rounded personality.”—Mollie Heath
Conn in It Pays to Play.

“In ancient Greece the privileged classes freed
themselves from long hours of toil and were able
to follow recreational and cultural pursuits be-
cause they possessed human slaves to do their
work. In America we acquired mechanical slaves
but these, in tUrn, threatened to enslave US until
we realized that a new social system must be built
under this new order.”—Conrad L. Wirth.

“Public recreation is devoted to the principle
that a well-conceived, efficiently operated system.
of recreation insures that its services reach all the.‘
people and flow most readily where they are'
needed and wanted most.”—G. Ott Romney. I

“In Fone’s leisure time one’s tastes are developed?
and one’s personality is expanded. The true na-
ture of people comes out in their enjoyments. . . .
The play life may be one of individual content- I.
ment or it may depend on such satisfactions as “I
group life only conveys. Of course everything,
depends upon the state of deve10pment of the'
individual as to whether individual accomplish-I.
ment is good at the moment or whether group life. 

is indicated.”—1Mary K. Simklioz'itch in Group 1
Life.

“Recreation stands beside the home, the school
and the church as one of the most profitable areas
for the realization of the ultimate aim of democ-
racy, namely, a people who will be able to live
finely, expressing themselves as individuals in
socially desirable ways.”—Frank S. Lloyd.

China’s Ancient Shadow Plays

| One of China's oldest arts is

| revived on a Chinese Playground
in the city of San Francisco

l
| HE OLD AND NEW CHINA met this past sum-
Tmer when Chinese shadow plays appeared on
l the Chinese playground of San Francisco’s
Chinatown. One thousand years ago, the Chinese
i historians tell us, shadow plays were seen in the mar-
!ket places, those centers of community life in Old
China, where they were used as a device of story-
tellers to illustrate the romantic tales of the Three
'Kingdoms, China’s Age of Chivalry. San Fran-
»,lsisco's active American-born Chinese children
|- found this ancient art of their ancestors an ex-

‘citing innovation when it was introduced to them

 

is a part of their summer dramatic program by
', lLillian Yuen, their up-to-date playground director,
I,who is known throughout Chinatown as the
" ‘Playground Lady.”

The Chinese storytellers back in the Tenth Cen-
:ury presented their shadow plays with motionless
.iaper figures which they guided across a screen
'lluminated from behind by an oil lamp. All kinds
If dark shadows, realistic and grotesque, could be
')rojected in this way. The entertainments became
’10 popular within a short time that they were

' aken into theaters where transparent colored
i"heepskin figures replaced the more fragile paper
'iines; in addition to color, they took on life and
motion and began to talk and act the popular
lramas. The idea was similar to the evolution of
he stereopticon and motion pictures which fol-
lowed many centuries later in the western world.
hey were an indispensable feature of' any occa-
iion, especially the “Festival of One Thousand
Camps,” the most elaborate celebration of the
"ear, and excited the imagination of the people
bout as a Walt Disney feature does in America
aday.

Their fame became so widespread that the
'hadow play art started traveling to other coun-
Vries. Merchants in the Twelfth Century, who
.ransported their wares in boats, carried it to the

Mouth Seas where visitors to Java and Bali today
my still watch the performances, which usually

ina

Modern Setting

By PAULINE BENTON
Red Gate Players
New York City

last throughout the night. In the days when the
mighty hordes of Kublai Khan swept over Asia,
opening overland trade routes between the East
and the West, adventurous troupes of Chinese
actors took the shadow plays to the court of
Ogatais in Persia, whence they reached other parts
of the Near East, Egypt, Turkey, and Greece.
In the Eighteenth Century, French priests who
had journeyed to the Orient brought tales of these
dramas back to France, where on occasions card-
board figures have been enacting popular French
plays ever since in the Montmartre district of
Paris. They are still known in this district as
“Ombres Chinoises.”

All of the countries, in fact, have made the
figures from their own materials, usually some
kind of animal parchment, and adapted the plays
to their own literature, but none have acquired the
perfection of the Chinese shadow masters, either
in the beauty, color, and flexibility of the figures,
or in the dexterity of their manipulation.

The Figures

The Chinese shadow figures are made from
thin pieces of animal parchment—donkey skin,
cowhide, or sheepskin—delicately carved, per—
forated, and colored with transparent dyes. Shown
behind an illuminated screen, they appear as bril-
liant and colorful as jewels. The figures are, of
course, Hat, averaging about thirteen inches in
height, ointed at numerous points, and controlled
by means of three wires for the human figures
and two for the animals. It is difficult, unless one
has seen a shadow play, to imagine any degree of
animation from two-dimensional figures with no
more than three controls, but it is generally con-
ceded that they are surprisingly human with just

477

478 CHINA’S ANCIENT SHADOW PLAYS IN A MODERN SETTING

enough of the simple imaginative qUalities of a
folk-art to preserve the illusion of fantasy and
make them even appear superhuman. in other
coumries the figures do not have these qualities,
for few are transparent in coloring and they are
all limited in the number of joints, thus lacking
agility of movement.

Chinese shadow figures brought to American
museums are doubtless responsible for arousing
interest in shadow plays in this country. Probably
the earliest, at least of the large collections, was
brought to the American Museum of Natural
History in New York by Dr. Berthold -Laufer
about 1900. It was sometime later, however, be-
fore they came to the attention of educators who
conceived of introducing them into their school
art programs, and not until the last five or six
years that their use has become at all widespread.
There is no question, however, that they are
rapidly coming to share equal honors with pup~
pets and marionettes in school and recreation
programs.

The very fine collection of shadow figures in
the Field Museum in Chicago inspired my own
interest in seeing the shadow plays in China,
which later resulted in organizing the Red Gate
Players for presenting the Chinese shadow plays
to American audiences, and in my returning again
to Peking to study with the old shadow master, the
late Mr. Lee T’uo—ch’en. He and his father with
their troupe of shadow players had entertained
the Empress Dowager, the ill-fated Emperor
Kuang Hsii, and other well-known persons in the
Manchu court. Our purpose in our performances,
which are of course translated into English, was
primarily to interpret Chinese art, literature, and
music to American audiences through the medium
of this beautiful folk drama. For its artistry and
simplicity alone, it seemed worthy of. a place in
our modern world, but also proved to be so articu-
late and entertaining that it reached a much larger

and more varied audience, both of adults and chil—
dren, than we had ever anticipated.

The Development of the Art

These performances have also, I believe, had a
share in stimulating the growing interest in the
shadow play for school and
recreation programs, where it
provides a new field for crea-
tive art, dramatic activity, or
both. Whether or not it can
successfully be a combination

cure information

Any individual or group wishing to se-
regarding perform-
ancesI demonstrationsl or instructionI
may obtain it by addressing Miss Pauline
Benton in care of the Red Gate Players.

of the two depends vary largely upon the ages of
the children and the time at their disposal. One
of its outstanding advantages is that it can be
simple enough for the younger groups of children
and sufficiently complicated to appeal to and hold
the interest of the older ones.

If we follow through the historical develop-
ment of the Chinese shadow play from the first
motionless paper figures presenting their tales in
narrative form, to the animated, transparent,
parchment figures acting out plays in dramatic:
form, we may trace the appropriate type to be:
used in the different age groups. The younger.
children usually make stationary, opaque figures
from cardboard or paper, which they can move;
across the screen by means of one wire or wooden}
stick control, while another tells the story. The,
great advantage in this for the younger groups is,
that it requires no difficult technique. The mak:
ing of the figures can be merely a part of their
creative art program,,which consists in drawing
or painting some character, that to them illustrates:
their story, and then cutting it out. The fact that
the figure is opaque and shows only a black
shadow to the audience need not deter the child
from coloring it, for at this stage the value is
more in what the child can see and do than in the

audience’s reactions. Although the figures cannot

move, the child’s imagination may supply this lack
in his drawing as he senses that it should be
walking, running, or dancing across the shadow
screen.

As the early shadow plays developed into their,"
next phase, the dramatic form, so the older groups}
interests tend to center on the dramatic produc;
tion. For them, animation is essential and trans-
parent colors are desirable. The simplest and.
least expensive way to make a shadow figure
transparent is to use water-color paper, paint the-
design on it with transparent colors, such as Hig;»l
gins India Inks, and then oil it on both sides with
linseed oil. After this has dried thoroughly, 
coat of shellac applied to both sides will give,
rigidity to the figures. A higher degree of trans: i
parency, however, can be obtained by making the
figures from some definitely transparent material: I
such as parchment, lamilux, or plastic, thought
these are more difficult t;
paint because of their oily 0‘1.
shiny surfaces and are alst:
more expensive. Many of thy |
sheet plastics, such as pyra;
lin or lumarith, may now bit

II
I

CHINA’S ANCIENT SHADOW PLAYS IN A MODERN SETTING I 479

purchased in colors.
Some very success-
ful figures have
been made by cut-
I ting the different
parts from the ap-
propriate sheets of
color and gluing
them together. This
method requires
only a minimum
amount of painting,
such as facial fea-
tures and small de-
l tails on the cos—
tumes.
To make a ligure

 

well jointed for anima-
'ion, we should make a
':areft11 study of the Chin-
.356 models, for after a
:housand years or more of
:xperience we must
knowledge that they have
)ecome the real masters of

ac-

 

"While our changing world is trying to sepa-
rate the Old and the New China into cli‘Fter-
ent categories and to place walls of thought
between themI we tind not only the insuper-
able wisdom ot her ancient sages but also
the simple pattern of her talk arts rising up
to guide us in our modern search for new
ways to attain a fuller and richer expres-
sion of beauty and experience in living.‘I

the art. While it is
true that their lig—
ures have been de-
veloped for experi-
enced and profes-
sional players rath-
er than recreation
groups, examination
will show that they
are flexible and
capable of natural
rhythmic move-
ments with the sim-
plest kind of ma-
nipulation.

Some groups of
children have ex—
perimented with some new
kinds of partially mecha-
nized controls with compli-
cated wire attachments by
which one wire may move
a mouth, eye, foot, and
hand all at the same time.
This results in stilted and

——

 

480 CHINA’S ANCIENT SHADOW PLAYS IN A MODERN SETTING

limited movements in the
figures and tends to focus
the child’s attention on the
mechanism of the manipu-
lation rather than on the
graceful motions and poses
of the figures.

The Chinese shadow fig-
ure, on the other hand, is
so made that it responds to

The complete set of "Elephant Gay." in-
cluding eight animal characters. a shadow
screen. l4” x28”. two pieces of scenery.
and a text with directions may be purchas-
ed trom the Red Gate Players. 454 River-
side Drive. New Yorl< City. for $5.00. A
few single figures. some of them "seconds."
are available at titty and seventy-five
cents. Souvenir programs containing ré-
sumés of the plays presented by the Play-
ers and also a brief history of shadow
plays may be obtained for fifty cents.

was necessary to investigate
all types of wire forming
from bedsprings to meat
skewers to find the machin-
ery adjusted for bending
the loops. It would almost:
have seemed simpler to do
as the Chinese shadow mas-,
ters must have done, sit;
down with a roll of wire;

the slightest touch and is so

free from mechanization

that a child soon becomes unconscious of the con-
trols and projects his own personality and gestures
into those of the character he is manipulating.
The joints seem to flow into the natural bends
and movements of the body. The different parts
are joined together by a single thread knotted on
each side, so that every joint swings freely.
Brads, or anything with a Hat side which may be
used to fasten the joints together, will hamper
the animation. Animals have two control wires
attached loosely, one on the head and the other
toward the back, sometimes even on the tail.
Human figures have three controls, one sewed
firmly to the neck and one loosely to each hand.
A small ledge of moulding fastened to the lower
edge of the screen will form a “floor” which con-
trols the foot movements. The loose joints and
stiff wire controls are responsible for the realistic
manner in which a character may walk, dance, sit,
kneel, and punctuate all speeches with decided and
purposeful gestures.

“Ready-made” Figures

Many of the older groups who are primarily
interested in the shadow play as a dramatic ac-
tivity, do not have the time to study and work out
a well-made and properly balanced figure. Both
are quite essential to a good performance. Ob-
servation of this fact, as I have talked with teach-
ers, inspired me with the idea of producing some
“ready-made” figures modeled after the Chinese
ones butardapted to the materials available in this
country. There are marionettes on the market, so
why not “shadows”?

It is fun to do something that is new and dif—
ferent, but it has required a great deal more effort
and energy than was anticipated to reproduce a
hand-made product in our machine age. For 'an
article which looks simple, there are numerous
processes and parts which must be assembled from
very divergent sources. For .the wire controls it

and a pair of pliers and dog,
the cutting and bending by,-
hand! Our modern plastics proved to be the best.
material to substitute for the animal parchments,
but this also demanded a certain amount of ex-:.
perimentation to find the best transparent colors;
and methods for applying them. After nearly,-
two years of such research and trying out of ma—;->
terials, this summer we produced our first Ameri-g
can-made transparent shadow play, “Elephant
Gay.” This has been one of the popular plays in,
our own repertoire, based on the Chinese version:
of the story telling how the elephant gained his;
trunk, and since the figures are all animals, we
felt that it should have a universal appeal.

In San Francisco’s Chinatown

It seemed a most auspicious begining, just after.
we had opened our little theater in San Fran-
cisco’s Chinatown for our second summer season
there and were finishing up the first sets of “Ele-I
phant Gay,” to have Lillian Yuen come in to tell
us that she was going to use it for one of her-7
summer dramatic programs. She had been asked
by Miss Hester Proctor, Drama Supervisor for.
the San Francisco Recreation Department, to have
her group present a program in the State Recrea-'
tion Building on Treasure Island. She wanted to
have a Chinese program and had decided to have;
a shadow play. I was delighted to have the privi-I‘
lege of seeing this worked out under the direction
of an experienced recreation leader, and especially,“
a Chinese one! This Chinese playground, whichI
is a part of the San Francisco Recreation Depart-
ment’s playground system, is unique in being the -'
only Chinese playground in the country. ..

“Elephant Gay” has a very lively song which?
the Baby Elephant sings at various times through-1
out the play. The children learned this song first, -‘
Then each one took a figure, holding one control, 5
wire in each hand, and danced it on the wall to
the rhythm of the song. By working on a largel

(Continued on page 514)

An Experiment in Community Recreation.

; ALTIMORE has just en-
 joyed the best summer
in all its play history.
lyEvery school ground within
I|the city has been available
l for neighborhood use during
gvacation. In June, school au-
lythorities, cooperating with
isummer-time city recreation
iiprogram, offered the use of
l [school property to every group willing to accept
llresponsibility for the maintenance of good order
an the grounds and for the protection of school
)roperty.
I Formerly, private groups have been allowed to
_ ise grounds and gymnasiums only if a paid leader
| from the Department of Recreation was in charge.
1T his involved an expense that many groups could
l lot meet. Under the new arrangement leaders are
:lected by the groups, receive no pay, and often
‘ are members of the teams or clubs wishing to use
{lhe school property.
' Any group may now make application to the
Department of Education through the Depart-
inent of Recreation for a permit to use the school
'ards. This application is made on a prepared
Horm which specifies the exact time requested, the
ilctivity to be carried on, and the name of the
( :erson to be in charge. Two community residents
(110 are not affiliated with the group serve as
Sferences for the leader. Accompanied by a de-
losit of $15.00, this application is sent to the
)epartment of Recreation.

i
‘ This $15.00 deposit, paid in advance, is used to
I

 

 

ay for any damage that occurs during the time
1e permit is in force. Should damage exceed
I 5.00, the group is held responsible for the dif-
arence. The unused balance is returned at the
xpiration of the permit.

The Department of Recreation reviews the ap-
. lication, checks the character of the grOUp and
I re references of the leader. It then sends the

)rm with recommendations to the Department of

.ducation. When final approval is granted by
I :hool authorities, a permit is issued to the group
' ader.

In order that this leader may be fully aware of
.s responsibilities, certain regulations are set up.

 

I.

By JANET JACKSON

In Baltimore the Department of Pub- , .
lic Recreation. with the cooperation “011- These “1193 are m'
of the Department of EducationI has
initiated a plan through which school
grounds and indoor facilities are be-
ing made more widely available during
the entire year to community groups

These have been reduced to
a minimum consistent with
group and property protec-

cluded in writing on the per-
mit issued to the leader, and
are carefully discussed with
him. For outdoor activities
their regulations are:

a. The leader must be in at—
tendance on the grounds at all hours when the permit
is in force.

b. The behavior of the participants, cleanliness of the
grounds, protection of property and enforcement of
any special regulations required by the school au—
thorities are considered the duty of the leader.

c. Report of accidents, violation of rules, damage to
property or irregularities must be made within
twenty—four hours of the time of occurrence.

(1. A weekly attendance report must be submitted to
the Department of Recreation.

e. No money collections or sale of goods is permitted
at any time.

f. Except when special permission is granted, only 14-
inch softballs may be used.

g. All individuals participating in activities must sign
an accident release blank.

This permit is not transferable. Should a group
make a change in leadership, its permit is taken
up and a new one issued in the name of the newly
elected representative.

The Department of Recreation may cancel a
group’s permit at any time. It further reserves the
right to limit the hours one organization may use
the grounds in accordance with the demand.

Seven copies of each permit are prepared.
These are distributed to the group’s representa-
tive, the Department of Recreation, the school
principal, the Police Department, the district su-
pervisor, the statistical clerk of the Schpol Board,
and the Recreation Committee. The group rep-
resentative is asked to keep his copy with him at
all times when his permit is in effect.

Under this local group sponsorship plan, Moth-
er’s Clubs may provide safe places for their chil-
dren to play. Parent-Teacher groups, girls and
boys clubs, Scout troops, church leagues and simi-
lar units may act as sponsors for play periods. If
a district has no such organization willing to act,
one may be formed for this purpose.

481

482 AN EXPERIMENT IN COMMUNITY RECREATION

School equipment used by juveniles consists of
stationary yard apparatus such as swings, slides,
bars and sandboxes. Other supplies are simple but
fun. Many of them are made by the youngsters.
Tin can stilts, stick horses, bean bags, hop—scotch
games, jumping ropes and building blocks are
the most popular.

Volunteer leaders of playground groups may fol—
low their own programs. Usually they prefer to do
this. For those who do wish guidance, the facilities
of the Recreation Department are available.

Adults are responding enthusiastically to the
chance to organize local
softball teams. During the
first three months of the
plan’s opera—
tion, eleven new
softball teams
have apphed
for the use of
the grounds.
When a ball
game may be
enjoyed by
walking a few
blocks to the
nearest school
yard, the num-
ber of specta-
tors as well as
participants in—
creases encour—
agingly. Moth-
ers and children P
remain on the  
side lines to like.
cheer lustily for Si  'I  ” '

d a d o r b i g I
brother or sister who is starring in the game.

Baltimore’s experience this season has con-
vinced the school authorities that established
groups are not a hazard to public property. In all
this time the only damage done has been one
broken window. The group playing at the time
reported the damage immediately and the new
window was in place almost before other groups
knew it had been broken.

A review of the statistical clerk of the School
Board at the end of the outdoor play season may
show that the present $15.00 deposit is unneces-
sarily high. If. this figure can be reduced, groups
who have not been able to raise quite that amount
of money will no longer be eliminated.

During the coming season many schools will
serve the recreational needs of young people
and adults through community center programs

 

Courtesy Department of Municipal Recreation, Milwaukee

Autumn will find play—minded Baltimoreans
moving into the school gynmasiums. Group lead-
ership will be provided under the same system as
for outdoor recreation. Teams wishing, to play
basketball, volleyball, or badminton will be ad-
mitted to the gymnasiums if one of their members
accepts leadership responsibilities. '

Under this new system for group leadership, a
twenty-five per cent increase over 1939 in the
number of groups using the indoor equipment 
expected at the beginning of the indoor season,
By the close of the season, an even larger increase
is anticipated. r

To date, no permits. to
use ‘ grounds or buildings
have been mist;
used. Groups
are visited at inf,
tervals by recre};
ation and police
officials. Every
organizatiorr;
realizes tha}
cancellation of
its permit, it
grOUp member;
fail to fall it;
line with regu-
lations so plain-
ly stated, is nt-
i d l e t h r e at-
School authori '
ties believe thatr '
residents 0}
each neighbor:
hood will b“
the first to re:

port any irreg‘
ularities a group might try to conceal. ,-

This experiment in group leadership is still tOtfl
new to be evaluated thoroughly. Baltimore schooil
administrators are pleased with what has beer:
accomplished so far. Participants in the progranl
like being put on their honor and respond accord!
ingly. Neighborhood residents are becoming mot
play—minded. Those in charge of the recreaticil
program throughout the city have rejoiced to finj
a way to expand their program without increasin
their budget. However, these recreation leader
are the first to admit the plan has not provided '

complete answer to the problem of supplying saf
play facilities for all.

(Continued on page 505)

Swing Your Partners!

sands—youngsters, old
folks, jitterbugs, college boys, farmers, busi-
ness men, slum dwellers and society matrons—
have discovered the pleasures of the old-fashioned
square dance.
The spontaneous revival of square dancing be—
. gan with strange simultaneity in a dozen separated
.corners of the country. Recently it has swept
i wave-like over the United States, from New York
‘ to California and from Dallas to Detroit. People
' have found joy and recreation in hilarious abund-
, ance in the dances of grandfather’s day and the
| revival has become a national phenomenon.
One of the most colorful and enthusiastic of
lrthe square dance revivalists is Dr. Lloyd Shaw,

Drincipal of the Cheyenne Mountain public school,

in Colorado Springs, Colorado, where he has

.nspired into being twenty-five different square

lance groups. Most of them meet every week.

All of them grow at every meeting. Night work-
'trs, not to be deprived of the fun, have organized

Lheir own club for afternoon dancing. Square

lance nights in the city municipal auditorium
[)ver-crowd the huge floor space with brightly
Hostumed sets and pack the galleries with envious
tching-footed spectators.

But Dr. Shaw is more than a busy frog in a
ocal puddle. In the past two years alone he has
raveled 50,000 miles, teaching, demonstrating and
I rersuading. In 1939 he wrote a book on Cowboy
“Dances which is not only a fresh contribution to

y I N THE LAST few years thou-

 

.uthentic Americana but a manual for people who
want to learn. As a folk-dance authority, Shaw
.‘yas served on the faculty of the University of
1, iolorado. He has lectured on the subject at a
liozen other institutions. When the writers, Lowell
Thomas and John Kieran,
land intimates of their social
lezircle wanted a teacher-
:aller they brought Shaw
:ast from Colorado to
l')utchess County, New
i'fork, and put him up at the
. s'i‘homas’ menage to instruct
‘hem and their children.
In his little suburban
achool he has worked with
p 3 -he folk dance—largely Old

' I

D

By FARNSWOR'I‘H CROWDER

At the Recreation Congress at Cleveland
very keen interest was shown in American
folk dances. and some of the most enioy—
able sessions of the Congress were those
devoted to the teaching of these dances
by Beniamin Lovett. dancing instructor to
Henry Ford. Grace Ryan. author of "Dances
of Our Pioneers." Elizabeth Burchenal. Ex-
ecutive Chairman. The Folk Arts Center.
New York City. and G. I. Kern. Supervisor

of Community Centers and Playgrounds.
of the Board of Education. Cleveland.

World—for almost two dec-
ades. He knows, and his high
school children can demonstrate, the routines and
figures of over a hundred European peasant
dances. It was only four years ago that the old
American forms began to interest him. They de-
lighted the youngsters, they suited Shaw’s noisy
vigorous personality. Today he can call every turn,
every pungent line of patter for ninety different
square and country dances. Directing a dance, he
rears arrogantly, joyously back on his heels, his
head high. His voice booms forth, now harshly
unpleasant, now laughing, now singing off-key,
melodramatic, pleading, sentimental, but as com-
pelling at the pit of the stomach as a fog horn, a
police siren or the tremolo stop of a pipe organ.
He is so shrewd and adaptable that he can run off
with roaring success a square dance for hyper-
critical college youth, or for San Luis Valley
ranchers, or for society sophisticates in a country
club.

As Dr. Shaw explains: “Here is the dance of
true democracy. Joyously, laughing and shouting,
we can weave lovely patterns together. We can
refresh ourselves together. If we can play to-
gether we can work together. This old dancing is
packed with hidden treasures of value.”

He pictures it as he sees it from the caller’s
platform. “Below moves a floor full of sets, four
couples to each set——-each set opening and closing
like a flower, forming squares and circles, lines
and stars—swiftly changing crystals—patterns
weaving and flowing—every ear cocked, sensitive
for the slightest variant in the call. The thing is
charged with vital human beauty. Those steps
and figures go back to our ancestors. They’ve
come down to us through the very blood stream
of our bodies—so—

‘Around you go just like a

Wheel
The faster you go, the better
you feel.’ ”

By temperament and
metabolism, Shaw is a show-
man and missionary. For
the purpose of demonstrat-
ing his convictions about
the wholesome pleasures and
healthy releases that group

483

484 SlVING YOUR PARTNERS!

dancing provides, he uses
troupes of his own Chey-
enne Mountain boys and
girls. They are by now so
widely known and in de-
mand that, if they filled all
engagements offered, they
would almost never be at
home. As it is, in addition
to numberless short trips

tours annually, a fall trip

usually to the west coast, a spring trip to the
Great Lakes or the Atlantic. Among other places
they have danced at the University of California
and New York University, in Kansas City and
Henry Ford’s Greenfield Village, and at the 1940
National Convention of the Physical Education
Association and Chicago’s WLS barn dance
program.

The performers are the pick of Cheyenne
Mountain juniors and seniors. Two sets—sixteen
dancers—make up the company. They travel by
motor coach (the gift of an admiring patron) to—
gether with three musicians, Shaw, and Mrs. Shaw.
Their fee per engagement is $150 to $200, which
on the average about covers expenses.

There is no standard program: it would take
the youngsters a week of nights to exhaust their
repertoire. Usually they present a four part ex-
hibition—European peasant, to show the general
folk background; early American, with the girls
in hoops and the boys in tails; dances of Mexico
and the Southwest; and dances of the cowboy,
with the boys in ranch trappings, the girls in
period skirts. The troupes are always superbly
costumed. Though they perform with spirit and
style, with professional facility and aplomb, they
retain the unspoiled charm of anxious youth. And
Shaw, as caller and master of ceremonies, is
always a part of the show. Unfailingly the danc-
ers come home with rave notices in their scrap.-
books. They wear themselves to a frazzle answer-
ing audience demands for “More—more —” At
every performance before the three-day National
Folk Festival in Washington, they swept crowds
of ten thousand, if not off their feet, certainly off
their seats.

Dr. Shaw has sought not only to exhibit but to
propagate a good thing. On tour his troupers
eXperience a reversal of the usual teacher—pupil
equation. At the University of California, in
Berkeley, last fall, they conducted a class with

"I came to see your dancers and they seem-
ed to me very real and very much a part of
America. There was a kind of rough grace.
sincerity. feeling of fun. ioy in living. I
think there was something of the feeling
of an early America and its ioy in a huge.
new land. something really virginal. ioy-
ous. good. I felt re'al play spirit. . . . The
feeling of fun. some ioy in living. is too
much gone out of most of us. You seem
to be keeping it alive in these dances."—
From a foreword by Sherwood Anderson
they make two extended in Cowboy Dances

nearly 200 teachers as their
pupils. At Bennington Col—
lege, Vermont, the very
creme de la creme of the
“modern” concert dance;
found themselves taking in—l
struction in Uncle Steve’s.
Quadrille _from Rocky.
Mountain adolescents, and
asking for more. As a
teacher Dr. Shaw charges:
the air around him. He has;
pulled thousands of wallflowers out of their for-..
lorn corners to oin in grandfather’s dances. There.
is no count of how many square dance groups he}
has, directly and indirectly, brought into being;
They are strung clear across the land. Groups:
with no other help have formed around his book
on the cowboy’s dances. It contains detailed di-,._
rections, with diagrams and calls, for seventy-live.
dances from the old western range days. So many
teachers, far and wide, have requested instruction;
that he has had to set aside a part of his summer
to accommodate them with a class.

A unique outgrowth of his instruction of social-
ites at Denver’s Wilshire Country Club has been“
an old-time waltz series. Fortnightly several hun— .
dred dancers gather in the handsomest of period
costumes to revive old waltzes, polkas, and schot-
tisches. The loveliest of music is supplied by an.
orchestra from the string section of the Denverl
Civic Symphony. The affairs are like refugee re-..
vivals of the gaiety of old Vienna. Attendance'
has run close to a hundred per cent. Practicallyl
everyone goes on the floor for every number. The l
hotel management has not been exactly happy over l

by Lloyd Shaw.

I the slim liquor sales. “The old dances carry their l

own intoxicants,” Shaw explains.

When Lloyd Shaw, at 24, was offered the prin‘l
cipalship of a country school, people warned him...
“A hrst step to nowhere.” But he has never leftl
it. And he has won for himself a couple of hon-l
orary doctorates, made himself the most popular-
non-political speaker in his part of the country,
and served repeatedly as a college trustee. He has-1
remained with his Cheyenne boys and girls largely
for the freedom to style his career in his own
sweet way. He has been a hobby fiend, a pro-
fessional amateur, a man with too many red cor-
puscles. He has led his pupils into nature study;
camping and mountaineering activities, into the
study of Indian lore and crafts, into music and
literature. He has ridden wildly over the terrain

  
 
  
   
  

5 IV I N G YO U R PA R TNERS ! 485

of sports. When he took over the school, he had
no athletic equipment. But he had a dozen big
boys. As coach he knit them into a football team
and walloped all comers, including the state cham~
pions. The next fall, he threw out football and
' has never since had a team. He was a winter
sports enthusiast fifteen years ahead of the mass
craze. He had. a swimming period, a target-pistol
I year, and an archery spell. A magazine article
bred his interest in gliding. Conveniently he had
an ex-World War aviator on the faculty. They
bought a glider and experimented for a terrifying
- season with fiying.
* Later Shaw’s hobby became horses and he gal-
l loped off into western lore. He learned to ride, to
" rope and to wrestle steers by the horns. He fra-
ternized with old-timers and ranchers. And he
discovered a rich,- little-explored province of true
lAmericana. “Right there,” he rejoiced, “in my
l own west, underground, but still fiowing with life,
l was an old western dance tradition. I had to tap
lthat stream!” He dug, traveled about, kept notes.
1, Henry Ford shared with him all his collections on
lthe subject. Shaw could become quite as heated,
ltechnical and obscure over the differences between
nthe “Rattlesnake Twist” and the “Post—hole Dig-
ger Roll” as an Elizabethan pundit over alterna-
tive interpretations of a Spencerian stanza. The
material—real, earthy, full of lusty tang and
jhumor—lured him on. With his school dancers,
‘he shifted emphasis from European to western
I American forms. The square dance revival was
[already under way and Lloyd Shaw had Under
lhim a hobby horse that has now run off with its
l.rider to join the national circus.
‘ The cowboy’s dance, Shaw contends, is much
'closer to American temperament and soil than
jazz. Like the American himself, it is a melting-
pot hybrid. Into western range country the mi-
grants brought their Kentucky running sets, New
England quadrilles, their Mexican and European
peasant forms. From this basic raw material, the
cowboy developed routines and patterns to suit
himself. Having little patience with over-refine—
“ments and niceties, he
llchucked them. His dances
“took on a freedom, fiexi-
'lbility and masculine vigor
’ expressive of his restless
" character.
i That character is so akin
tto Lloyd Shaw as to make
llhim one of the best of the

I'With increased emphasis upon recreation
and with the recent widespread interest
in American folk culture there has come Very well, why don’t
a demand for the dances of our pioneers.
There has been a revival of these dances
in rural areas throughout the country. In
urban centers recreation leaders are giving
them a definite place in their programs."
—Grace Ryan in Dances of Our Pioneers.

current propaganclists for the cowboy’s dance. He
sees it as something old, that has been recovered
and will remain alive because so much life is in-
herent in it. The cowboy’s dances are the easiest
of the squares to learn, the most fun to do. They
neither discourage the beginner nor bore the old
hand. They are constantly active. They are the
American dance simplified and adapted——not mum-
mified or merely manufactured.

Shaw quarrels with those purists who, as he
feels, catch the old dances in traps of codification,
rules, and authenticity and dry them out to fossils.
“Our pe0ple,” he argues, “are hungry for these
communal dances. Let them take them, do with
them what they will. Let’s not cry out against
their violations of traditions. When the traditions
were alive, they violated everything in their own
paths. It is the way of living things. If we offer
people codified, sacrosanct, meticulously frozen
dances, they’ll turn away. Let’s bring grand-
father’s old dances back—yesl—but let’s bring
’em back alive!” By the test of the number and
enthusiasm of his converts, Shaw’s position stands
up. He has a therapy here for all of us who are
suffering from the creeping lethargies of stale
social motions and vicarious recreation. He would
dose us with something vigorous, wholesome, and
self-forgetful to do.

Men particularly enjoy the cowboy’s dances. I
have seen them by the score. And they are not
young ballroom- hounds and slickers. They are the
postmaster, the dentist, the minister, the bank
cashier, and lumber dealer, the football coach, the
milk man, the millionaire mining engineer, the
W PA truck driver.

In a group they share movements larger, freer,
more massive than any a man could achieve alone
or while holding up a woman and pushing her
around backwards. And so they can extend them-
selves. Their arms swing and their heels fiy.
Warming to the fun they grow red in the face,
slap their hands, lustily sing, and sweat with the
unashamed frankness of harvest hands.

Men lost in having such a whale of a good time
simply can’t be laughed at.
You long, instead, to laugh
with them.

you? Assemble a congenial
group or go to it with one
already in existence. Find
a teacher or procure a

(Continued on page 513)

Hobbytown

near the heart of Pitts-

burgh, 500 young citizens
of a city-within-a-city spent
their summer making Hobby-
town a worth-while community. Started last year
as a play school, this children’s community de-
veloped this year, under the guidance of the Irene
Kaufmann Settlement, into a full-fledged minia-
ture city of self-governing citizens from four to
sixteen years of age.

IN A FIVE-STORY building

Four mornings each week embryo bankers, poli-
ticians, publishers, business magnates, and “fac-
tory” employees can be seen arriving at their
“town hall” for work. There in the settlement
house, under the supervision of a trained staff
assisted by WPA and NYA leaders, the young
citizens of Hobbytown put democracy to work.
On the fifth morning the whole “town” moves to

Highland Park for the day.

An average wOrking day in the little city has
five periods. The playground session is followed
by a period in the craft—factories. After a short,
milk-drinking recess, general assembly is called
and the workers later return to their “factories”
for the final period.

Early in July Hobbytown government swung
into action as citizens sent delegates to a nominat-
ing convention which soon evolved into three
major parties and a few independents. Names of
two nominees for each office went to Hobbytown
citizens, and the first municipal administration was
elected. His Honor, the Mayor, had for his staff
a Vice-Mayor, Chief of Police, City Treasurer,
Director of Recreation and Director of Health.
A City Council of eight boys and eight girls
tackled law—making problems, while the judge and
district attorney started the wheels of justice roll—
ing and proceeded to try violators of the civic law.

All industries in the miniature municipality pay
their employees $4 an hour in Hobbytown “play”
money. Economy-minded citizens paid their fees
and deposited the balance in the city bank. Before
they got there, however, city officials held a hasty
meeting, passed a resolution imposing a weekly
tax of $6 on each citizen, and laid down a $25
corporation fee. Despite this regulation, a group
of junior journalists sold shares for a newspaper

486

A miniature community which
is governed by its youthful
citizens on democratic lines

and paid the city tax. The
publishers sold advertising to
other Hobbytown industries
and soon had the Times on a
sound financial basis.

Young citizens assembled daily to discuss gov-
ernmental problems and check up on elected of—;
ficials. Tax problems were conveniently handled}
by civic-minded City Treasurer Florence Troiani,
who made an investigation and one day reported!
to the assembly: “The city was making money at,
the expense of the citizens. I was the one who;
cut the taxes and made them more moderate.” "

Hobbytown’s thirteen year old judge and his;
jury tried all culprits. Offenses ranged from steal-j
ing and eating the founder’s birthday cake to pub-‘.
lishing an unlicensed scandal sheet, and stern-z
handed justice laid lines from $5 to $500. Sensa:
tional scandal of the summer was the trial for!
blackmail, libel, and publishing without license, in:
which the offender was found guilty, fined $500,.
disbarred, and made to clean up the day camp.

While the treasurer filed suits against citizens,
whose taxes were in arrears, the Health Director,
went ahead with her campaign to weigh and
measure all citizens. City council members drafted
a civil service examination for city police and ap-
pointment was strictly on the merit system.

Creative citizenship became a reality for Hob:
bytowners who worked three months at toy mak-
ing, furniture, metal, leather work, models, ph0*
t0graphy, Indian lore, swimming, life saving,:
journalism, machine sewing, raffia, knitting, weav-
ing, cooking, dancing, art and music. Every aspect‘

of the modern, adult city is duplicated in the,F
“City for Children.” I

In the large daylight studio, child-artists worki
over their easels and clay tables, creating mainly
from initiative and imagination. On miniature
benches in the workshop young carpenters build
toys, tables, lamps, or candelabra. Boy and girl;
chefs learn the fine art of cooking over the kitchen
stoves and provide the settlement refreshment,
stand with. cakes and cookies. Sweaters for the
children, their friends, or the Red Cross are.
knitted in the corner room, while down in the.'

' . . .~-|
model factory airplane builders work over thelri.

( C ontinued on Page 506) 

Fun
at the

_ f,
ii'Meetin' Place" *-

.—

and Buffalo Bill may live only in a history
book, but these facts do not stop us from using
1 a pioneer setting for a community evening of fun.
IWhole families trekked west in pioneer days to
. find new lands and new homes, so naturally this
I pioneer play party must include fathers and
'i mothers and boys and girls too.
' These suggestions may be used, of course, for a

private party of almost any size; they also seem
' especially well suited to an anniversary celebra-
‘Ltion of the founding of a community. Even as
0 “just a party," the pioneer play night will provide
great entertainment for both children and adults,
' particularly if 'all must come in costume, for every-
( one enjoys “dressing up.”

Invitations could well be covered wagons—
,prairie schooners—cut out of brown wrapping

paper and bearing this verse:

All the town is invited to come out and play
As pioneers did in an earlier day.
Wear pioneer costumes for pioneer sport;
‘ Have an evening of fun of the jolliest sortl
‘ Time:
Date:
Place:

l
l
c As an alternative, the invitation might be sent
gon an original map showing the location of the
place where the party is to be held. The prosaic
junction of Main and Broad Streets might bear
ithe adventurous label “Dead Man’s Curve.” Other
fzommunity landmarks may be similarly disguised.
{The recreation hall, of course, is the “Meetin’
IiPlace.”
If it is impossible to send out individual invita-
lttions, these suggestions are adaptable for use as
"posters or newspaper announcements.

THE FRONTIERS of America may have vanished,

, I Decorations .

l

The pioneer theme offers endless possibilities for
decoration. Bales of hay may be placed beside the
“entrance to the hall. To add to the atmosphere,

 

A pioneer play night recalling
memories of covered wagon days

real ponies or cows might be tied outside. Wagon
wheels may serve as wall decorations in the hall,
along with old time lanterns, harnesses, bridles,
saddles, and such equipment. Buffalo robes, coy-
ote and other skins are also appropriate if available.

Shocks of corn and bundles of grain may be
stacked in the corners of the room, and from the
ceiling a beneficent artificial moon may shine
down on the guests. Add a camp setting with an
artincial campfire for a striking effect. Other
ideas for decorations are: autumn leaves, pump-
kins, ears of yellow and red corn, bittersweet, red
peppers, and other things appropriate for a fall
party.

As an extra pioneer note chairs should be re-
placed by wooden stools, benches, and boxes,
barrels and kegs of various kinds.

Pioneer Relics

An exhibit of pioneer relics would provide an
unusual attraction. Many people in the commu-
nity have all sorts of authentic relics stored away
-——heirlooms, antiques, curiosities, tintypes, paint-
ings, costumes. They will be glad to lend these
things, especially if the exhibit is in charge of a
responsible group which will keep the articles
under careful watch. A detailed plan for such an
exhibit is found in A Pioneer Reunion, a bulletin
available on request from the National Recreation

Association.

The Party Begins

Guests may arrive by the wagon load—literally
speaking, because a hay rack or wagon, nlled with
hay, might stop at specified places throughout the

487

488 FUN AT THE “MEETIN’ PLACE”

community to gather up guests. Since this is a
“social gatherin’ ” it may be amusing to frisk the
men at the door for any firearms. At this party,
of course, Indians and pioneer men and women
mingle freely, along with gold miners and pro-
spectors, Indian scouts and frontiersmen. The
women might dress in gaily colored calico dresses
with tight waists and long skirts and wear shawls,
bonnets, and aprons. The men might wear over-
alls, broadbrimmed hats, flowing ties and mous—
taches, bandannas, coonskin caps.

Each guest should be tagged as he enters with a
brightly colored piece of wool. Four different
colors may be used and they should be distributed
as evenly as possible among those present. A
novel idea might be to have the colored yarn
threaded on large darning needles. The person in
charge of tagging the guests might stitch a length
of yarn to the sleeve of each guest, cut the yarn
and tie the loose ends. Then there is no possi-
bility of losing this identification tag.

For those “pioneers” who want to start right in
on the games, these contests might be provided:

Twenty candles are fastened on a large board
and lighted. Each contestant, standing two feet
from the candles, tries to blow them all out at
one puff.

Guessing contests always arouse interest. The
number of toothpicks stuck in a potato, the num—
ber of kernels on an ear of corn, the number of
seeds in a pumpkin, are all appropriate subjects
for mental testing. As another contest, a large
pail or wooden box might contain shelled corn.
Each player guesses the number of kernels he
thinks he can pick up in a handful; this guess is
recorded. The player then takes a handful and
makes a count.

The winners of these events may be awarded
prizes, if desired—polished red apples, popcorn,
licorice, horehound drops, spices and herbs,
geranium plants.

Community singing is a good way to start the
party. Turn off the lights, leaving only candle
light or the glow of the old—fashioned lanterns.
The song leader, carefully chosen beforehand,
may be accompanied by a fiddle, banjo, accordion,
or mouth organ. The songs which should be sung
are such old favorites as “Yankee Doodle,” “Oh,
Susanna,” “Seeing Nellie Home,” “Just a Song

at Twilight,” “Old Black Joe,” “0 Dem Golden
Slippers,” “Clementine,” and many others.

The Grand March

Everyone participates in the grand march.
Women and girls gather on one side of the room
in a long line, men and boys on the other side, all
facing the same direction. The leading couple
starts the procession to an old time tune. The
grand march may turn into a veritable “follow the
leader” under skillful head couples. Guests march
past a judges’ stand, and judges pick out particu-
larly outstanding costumes.

Games

Hiding the Hoe. Inform the guests that a hoe”
has been hidden somewhere in the room in full
view, but in not too conspicuous a place. At an
given signal, all search for the hoe. As each‘
person sees it he goes to the center of the room:
and starts to sing any song he likes. Many dif-,
ferent songs sung at the same time will produce a
small riot and provide plenty of laughter, getting
the party off to a fine start. ’5

Back to Back. To music, guests are instructed
to march about the party hall in any direction. At
a given signal each one must find a partner and
stand back to back with him or her. Generally at
such a party there are more women than men or
vice versa, so some will not find partners. These
unfortunate individuals are penalized; the leader I
ties a length of yarn about the wrist of each one
without a partner and the game continues. Those
who collect three or more “bracelets” by the end
of.the contest must entertain the crowd through !
group song, drama, or dance.

Friendly Competition

The “pioneers” now discover the meaning of
the pieces of yarn which were sewn on their;
sleeves at the door. Each color represents a pio- i.
neer settlement—perhaps “Dead Man’s Gulch,” i
“Split Rock Crossing,” “Cow’s Horn Creek,” and,
“ JOId Nugget Pass.” These groups, assembled in
corners of the room, compete against one another
the remainder of the evening. The party leader.:
keeps individual team scores for each contest, add- :

ing them together after the games for the total=5
team scores.

The number of‘people from each settlement:
taking part in each of the contests and relays:
which follow will depend on the size of the party.
All of the relays are single file relays in which
l

FUN AT THE “ZlIEET[N’ PLACE”

E the players in each team line up one behind the
other; the teams stand in parallel files behind a
starting line. Usually there should be no more
than six or eight on a team. Therefore, prior to
the competitive games, a pioneer leader is selected
for each group. His primary function is to make

| sure that all of the party guests have an oppor-

l tunity to participate. He should make certain

L that the same adults and children do not take part

I in every game. The pioneer leaders send out mem-

l bers of their teams to represent the settlements in
all of the games which follow.

And now, on with the competitive games!

Corn Shelling Contest. A stool and a gunny
sack filled with ears of corn are placed at the head
3f each of the lines representing the four settle-
.nents. At a signal the first individual in each

I line runs up to the stool, sits down, shells an ear
n )f corn (putting the kernels in a container), and
g 'eturns to his place, touching off the next person
i .n line. The winning team is the one whose last
I )layer finishes first.

Candle Lighting Relay. A tin can is placed
I .zwenty feet in front of the head of each line (now
l :omposed of new settlement representatives). The
J :irst player of each team is supplied with a candle
.~ 1nd a box of matches. At the starting signal these
' )layers light their candles, walk around the goals
1nd back, handing the lighted candles to the next
)nes in line who repeat the process. If a candle
l goes out, the player must stop where he is and
' relight it before he is allowed to continue. The

eam finishing first is the winner.

 

Spinning and Weaving. The players of each
earn stand three feet apart, all facing in one direc-
ion. The head player of each column is given a
)all of string. At the starting signal he holds the

' oose end, winds the string once around his body,
'tnd hands the ball on. After the last player has
wined the string around himself, he rewinds it on
he ball and passes the ball back up the line,
“eversing the original procedure. The first team
.vith an intact ball of string is the winner.

Barrel Hoop Relay. This relay is conducted simi—
arly to the Spinning and Weaving Relay. Each
eam receives a barrel hoop. On the signal the
irst player of each team steps through the hoop
ind passes it On to the next player. This con-
inues down the line and up to the head player

‘igain. The last person in each line, of course,
l must step through the hoop twice.

1

489

The Family Takes a Walk. Each settlement sends
out a “family” to take part in this relay—a
“father,” a “mother,” and as many “children” as
are agreed upon. They all line up in separate files
in that order. The first player of each team, the
“father,” starts walking as fast as he can up to
and around a designated goal, which may be a
wooden keg. He returns to the starting line, takes
the “mother’s” hand, and both of them walk
around the goal. They return to the starting line
and one of the “children” joins them, linking
hands with the mother. The trip to the goal and
back continues until the whole family is walking.
As the line increases the first players have to take
only a few steps in each direction and swing their
lines around in order to pick up the rest of the

Potato Carry. Each team receives a potato. The
first player in line puts the potato on the top of
his foot. At the signal the head players shuffle
forward, round the goal, and return to place. (If
the potato falls off a player’s foot he must replace
it before continuing.) The second ones in line
then follow the same procedure, and so on until-

everyone has had an opportunity to carry the
potato.

Corn Picking. Eight ears of corn are placed two
or more feet apart on marked chalk spots on the
floor in front of each team. The first player of
each team is given a gunny sack. At the signal he
runs out and picks up in turn each ear of corn in
front of his line, placing it in the sack. He re-
turns and gives the sack to the next person in line,
who replaces the ears of corn in their correct posi-
tions on the fioor. The second player then gives
the sack to the third person, who picks up the
corn as did the first player. This procedure is
followed until each member of the team has played.

Wind Storm. Standing behind a starting line,
one contestant representing each team receives a
small, downy feather. At the starting signal his
task is to blow the feather to a designated goal.

The point earned by the winner goes to the set-
tlement he represents.

Cantankerous Cattle. Contestants are told that
they are to bring the cows home from pasture.
The first player in each line is given a stick and an
empty tin can—the cow. On the signal the play-
ers drive the cows (rolling the tin cans with the
sticks) up to the designated goal, around it and,
back again. The second ones in line repeat the

490 FUN AT THE “rMEETIN’ PLACE”

process and so on. The first team home with its
cow, every member of the team having had an
Opportunity to play, is the winner.

/

Spelling Bee. Members of two settlements range
themselves on one side of the room. Members of
the other two teams stand facing them on the op—
posite side of the room. Distribute to the players
of each of the two resulting teams sets of alpha-
bet cards (each set printed in a different color) on
shirt cardboard or similar cards. Each player may
hold one card. The leader, standing at the back of
the room, calls a word—“horse,” for instance.
Immediately the members of each team who have
the letters “h,” “o,” “r,” “s,” and “e” run to the
head of the room, stand in line in the proper order,
holding up their cards so that word is spelled cor-
rectly. The side finishing first scores a point.

When the players return to their teams after
spelling a word, they hand their cards to team
members holding no letters. This makes for

greater participation.

It is wise to prepare a set of words beforehand
in order to avoid duplicating letters. The follow-
ing words may be used: horse, shawl, wagon,
corn, pony, cabin, game, bridle, folk-dance, mus-
tang, music, party, musket, scout, relics, antiques,
costume, banjo, contests, bachelor.

Each of the fOur settlements receives the score
of the team to which its members belong in this
game.

Pioneer “Dramer”

History Lives Again. Each team may be given
suggestions for dramatization, or the members
may choose their own typical incident of pioneer
life to portray. As each group presents a scene of
pioneer life, the other teams try to guess what the
incident is. A box of properties may be provided.
Some incidents easily dramatized are: “Shooting
of Dan McGrew,” a quilting party, a husking bee,
the Pony Express.

If more formal entertainment is desired, the
following suggestions are appropriate:

Brides of Yester-Year. Pageant of Wedding
gowns and dresses worn by women of the com-
munity. (A bulletin, Brides of Y ester-Y ear, is
available on request from the National Recreation
Association. This bulletin describes the staging of
such a pageant in detail.)

Tableau Scenes. Depict through tableaux pio~
neer scenes and incidents in which characters pose
as photographs within a large picture frame or

album. There might be dialogue, music, or verse
descriptive of the scene or character shown.

Village Talent. Various ones at the party might
participate in an informal program consisting of
musical numbers, readings, recitations, skits, tab-
leaux, and dances. Stage properties and scenery
would depend on the setting desired. It might be
a log cabin, trading post, Indian camp, campfire
scene.

Folk Dances and Singing Games

Dances play an important role in this pioneer
party. There are many possibilities: Arkansas
Traveler, Captain Jinks, Money Musk, Reuben
and Rachel, Four in a Boat, Jolly Miller, Bingo,
Skip to My Lou, Paw-Paw Patch, and countless
others.

Oh Susanna is a lively dance and an easy one
to learn. The words and music may be found in ‘
any standard song book. The action given below

is that used in the prairie country and the Far
West.

Formation: In couples, standing in a large circle, fac-
ing in, gentlemen to left of partners.

Words:

( 1) I came to Alabama wid

( 2) My *banjo on my knee,

( 3) I’m g’wan to Lou’siana,

( 4). My true love for to see.

( 5) It rain’d all night de day I left,
( 6) De weather it was dry,

( 7) De sun so hot I froze to death,
( 8) Susanna, don’t you cry.

(Chorus)
( 9) 'Oh, Susanna, oh, don’t you cry for me,
i I’m g’wan to Lou’siana wid
My banjo on my knee.
(10) Repeat chorus.

Action:
( 1) Men skip four steps toward center.

( 2) Men move back four steps to place.

( 3) Ladies skip four steps toward center.
( 4) Ladies move back four steps to place.
(5—6) Men repeat above action.

(7-8) Ladies repeat action.

( 9) Grand right and left. (All men face right, 1
ladies left, each taking partner’s right hand. 1'
Alternate right and left around circle through j
chorus.)

(10) At the beginning of the second chorus, accept «
person at hand as new partner. Couples prome- '
na-de counterclockwise, gentlemen on the inside.
On last word of second chorus face center and
repeat all.

(Continued on page 507)

The Ann Arbor Civic Orchestra

The development of the Ann Arbor Civic Orchestra

since its organization a few years ago is convincing
testimony to the value of music to a community

By PHILIP O. POTTS

HE ANN ARBOR, Michigan,
l TCivic Orchestra started origin-
ally in the Ann Arbor Methodist Church with
» a membership of some six or eight players and an
obvious shortage of string instruments. The per-
; sonnel increased rather rapidly, however, attract-
' ing many members from the city at large.
Requests for the orchestra’s services also gradu-
'ally came from many sources outside the church
so that the organization soon became an all-city
music project, and the name “Community Or-
j chestra” was adopted. The Department of Recre—
ation of the Ann Arbor Public Schools has been
l of assistance during this whole period, and for
about five years the orchestra has functioned as
I an activity of that department under the name of
the “Civic Orchestra.”
l Membership the past several years has been
l held to a limit of forty players. This is a size
' fairly well approaching full symphony instrumen-
' tation and about the maximum limit possible to
accommodate in most school and community
auditoriums.
The basic theory and purpose of the orchestra,
. present in the plan of all its activities from the
l‘start, have been twofold: (I) to provide a high
.- caliber playing ensemble for musical recreation
and training to all interested musicians, and (2)
j to make available musical programs of merit to
other community groups and projects on a non-
profit basis. The measure of success in the aims
is evidenced by the large number of members who
continue year after year and in the waiting list of
l new membershas well as by
the varied requests for the
orchestra’s services which
usually fills its season’s cal-
endar a year ahead.
l The orchestra functions
1 under no subsidy or income
other than its recognition as
I an adult extension unit of the

— -
‘-'._.- .—

---_—-

Community

The experiences of Ann Arbor and of a
number of other communities in develop-
ing their orchestras have been recorded
by A. D. Zanzig in an inexpensive book-
let entitled "Starting and Maintaining a
Orchestra."
may be secured from the National Rec-
reation Association for thirty-five cents.

Ann Arbor school system and the

privilege it has, because of this, of
using certain music and equipment of the high
school. There is no cash remuneration to either
director or players, and the organization flourishes
and functions through the loyalty and enthusiasm
of those forming its membership, assisted by the
interest of groups whom it serves. Under this
plan complimentary concerts have been given in
the majority of communities within a radius of
some forty miles, in addition to frequent Ann
Arbor appearances.

Any resident of Ann Arbor or nearby com-
munities who can reasonably well qualify in faith-
fulness and musical proficiency, is eligible to mem-
bership. The roster, besides attracting various
teachers and semi-professionals in music, includes
many whose daily occupation is something en-
tirely else. Represented in it are stenographers,
salesmen, machinists, professors, school teachers,
radio technicians, students, architects, housewives,
and clerks.

William R. Champion, who is in charge of all
instrumental music instruction in the public
schools, has been director of the orchestra for the
past five years, The major part of the orchestra’s
musical progress and proficiency during that time
is due to the time and talent which he has gener-
ously given in no small amount toward that end.
Philip Potts acts as manager and Charles Stau—
bach as concertmaster.

The organization takes considerable pride in
having taken a leading part in several community
ventures that from apparent
merit and attraction now bid
fair to be established insti-
tutions.

Special Events

The annual Civic Music
Night, in which all of the

(Continued on page 514)
491

This booklet

Dogs as a Source of Recreation

country there are approxi-

mately ten million of “man’s
best friend” -——the dog. Dogs
have, from time immemorial
been the companions and special
pets of children, and the im-
portance of dogs and other pets
as a source of recreation has been evidenced many
times by the pet shows and so-called “mutt” shows
held on the playgrounds of cities throughout the
country, which are proving so effective a means
of increasing the interest of the children in ani-
mals, their knowledge of their characteristics, and
their appreciation of the necessity for good care
and kind treatment of pets.

The proper training of dogs is not only a hu-
mane responsibility from the standpoint of kind-
ness to animals, but such training would go far
to make them a greater source of recreation, com-
panionship, and protection. Much might very
beneficially be done by recreation departments to
train leaders so that they will be equipped to help
juvenile and adult dog lovers to train their dogs
in such a way that they will
derive even deeper satisfac-
tion from their relationship
with them.

Conrses in dog training
are not unknown, and the
importance of such training

IT IS ESTIMATED that in this

Have we explored sufficiently the
possibilities which dogs and other
pets offer as a peculiarly satis-
fying source of recreation? Have
we given enough thought to what
might be done through the medium
of dog training to enrich the rec-
reational life of the individual?

"To own a dog or not to own a dog—that
is a question seldom deliberated on for a
period longer than the twinkling of an eye.
Almost everywhere we go nowadays we
see dogs. all colors. all sizes. all kindsI and
before we know itI one of them has de-
cided to own us!"—Josepbine Z. Rine in A

has received recognition by edu—
cational authorities. In Febru-
ary and March, 1940, a course
in the care and training of dogs
was offered by the University
Extension Division of the Mas-
sachusetts Department of Edu-
cation. The course covered eight
meetings with lectures and demonstrations.

“The training of the dog is one of the most in-
teresting phases of his care, the lure possiblyi
growing out of the fact that it is never done.
There is always something more, it seems, that.
we can teach the dog; something more, invariably,
that he wants to learn. In fact the dog’s willing—I
ness to learn not only makes him an apt pupil but,
it makes the process of his education extremely
interesting. No sooner is one accomplishment:
perfected than back he comes and asks with ears.
cocked for the veriest fraction of a sound, ‘What
now!’ . . . Here lies the secret of all training: Let
it be a game that you yourself enjoy and straight-,~
way the dog will enjoy it with you. . . . Make a.
rollicking game of it, a;
form of play, and you will.
find yourself playing like a.
boy absorbed, and the dog:
responding cheerfully t0,~
your every wish.” —— Jose-
phine Z. Rina.

Dog’s Life—from Puppybood to Old Age.

 

492

Your Son—All American “K946”

OR A LONG TIME coaches and
F physical directors have been
concerned about the desira—
bility of young boys playing foot-
ball. The opinions of leading men
in the field seem to be fairly evenly divided on the
subject. The high school coaches are for the most
part in favor of junior football because they see
the need for early training in fundamentals in
order that they may have better teams. College
coaches are indifferent to the problem except when
they have sons about old enough to play the game.
A few health and physical education leaders place
the minimum age for beginning football at fifteen
or about the sophomore year in school. All agree
that if a boy does not play on an organized team
in the'junior high school he is quite likely to go
in for sand lot football which safety experts
consider dangerous.
There is great need for an adaptation of foot-
ball or some other game that will interest boys to

an extent that they will be willing to delay playing '

regulation football for a few years. Speedball,
soccer, touch football. six—man football, and other
modern fall games do not seem to meet the de—
mand. Baseball has had an appeal to many coaches
for a fall sport because so many games are rained
out in the spring, especially in the northern states.
If some bright coach could work out a good game
to {it the needs of the boys during this period, he
would become famous over night.

The junior high school age is a reckless period,
and it is during this stage that a boy should be
under the direction of a hrst class physical di-
rector who should be able to provide some version
of football to fit the needs of the boy. Observers
report that the six-man adap—
tation of regular football is
becoming increasingly popu-
lar ; however, many feel it is
not exactly what we want for
young boys because the game
is too fast and strenuous.

Physical directors are not
sure that a junior high school
boy should play football, and
only time, tests, and experi-
ence will give the correct

By J. RUSSELL COFFEY
Fellow
Center for Safety Education
New York University

If your boy is to play football under the
best possible conditions he must, in Mr.
Cottey's opinionl have good equipment
and a good tield on which to play' an un-
derstanding physical education instructor
and teachers who will place his health and
educational needs tirst in any plan of
daily activities. He should play the game
with boys of his own size and weight' in-
terschool competition should be delayed
until he is in high school. and sand lot
play should be avoided as dangerous.

answer. Most fathers want their
sons to play and are willing to
give written permission provided
the boy is given good equipment.
Schools that provide for a good
physical examination have little trouble getting
parents to consent to participation.

If your young son is to play football, he should
participate witlT b'c‘iys of his own size and weight.
He should be taught by an experienced coach who
knows how to play the game in a reasonably safe
manner. The current practice in most cities is to
hire an “All Something” for head coach. He
must be “All American,” “All State,” or “All
Conference,” according to the size of your city. In
most schools the junior high boys are taught by
anyone who is willing to assume the position of
coach. The latest trend is away from this foolish
procedure. The places where junior high school
football has been played with a minimum of in—
juries are where experienced coaches have been
in charge.

In spite of the poor coaching our young boys
have received in the past, this weakness will soon
be eliminated. Men who have undertaken the de—
velopment of light weight teams are enthusiastic
about the fun they have had working out plays
and formations. The junior age is the time when
boys are willing to be tanght. They will do what
they are told and the teacher has the respect of
his group.

Have the Best Equipment Available

If you are a high school athletic director, you
should furnish these young players with the best
equipment you can get. Do not hand down a lot
of old, worn shoulder pads
and shoes available because
your own team has been
given new equipment. The
danger of accident is too
great when the equipment is
too large or partially worn
out. The handing down of
old worn—out shoes to young
boys is one practice that con-
tributes to many accidents.
Did you ever hear of the

493

494 YOUR SON—ALL AMERICAN “1946”

owners of a famous race horse removing his
shoes at the end of the season and placing them
on a young two—year old for his hrst training?
Things horse trainers would not do to a horse,
coaches should not do to youth.

If your school is football—minded, try to buy the
best the manufacturer offers. You should make
careful measurements of your boys. Be sure to
get shoes that fit. The average junior high team
will need two full sets of headgears. The weight
of the headgears should be considerably lighter,
but the general construction should be just as
good as that of the varsity models.

If your son is to play football without injury,
he is entitled to the best in training, equipment,
and coaching. The question of finance is worthy
of considerable consideration, and while we all
want to be economical in our purchases, some-
times we save too much in the beginning only to
lose in the final analysis. The average broken arm
costs around fifty dollars for physician’s services,
and that amount of money would buy ten pairs of
shoes for your team. Worn cleats and loose shoes
cause falls, and falls cause broken bones. A hard
bump on the head will mean three days under a
doctor’s observation, and the saving from this, if
it could be avoided, would mean a full set of first
quality headgears for your backfield. If you go
through the entire list of accidents and their
causes, you will find that most of them could be
avoided, and that the economic gain from those
avoided will be considerable.

Sporting goods representatives are of the opin-
ion that the manufacturers would like to discon—
tinue making cheap equipment designed for direct
sale to sand lot football players. They know that
this type of equipment offers but a minimum of
protection. Football as a game has a lot to con-
tribute to the youth of America, but the very
nature of the sport requires the maximum and not
the minimum of protection.

The high school athletic director sometimes in-
sists that the coach have his boys wear out a lot
of old equipment. If this is your situation, insist
that it be sent back to the factory for complete
rebuilding. A few stitches here and there and the
addition of new elastic or rubber pads may be the
factor that will aid in the reduction of injuries.
The fullback who is wearing that old worn head-
gear and is playing on the second team may be
your first team boy by the end of the week. Do
not forget the experience of one Western Con-
ference coach who used his fourth string fullback

for his most important game. Coaches for the
most part will agree that if a boy is good enough
to be on the squad he is entitled to every consid-
eration that a first, team member receives.

There are many cities where the school authori-
ties frown on junior football. If this is the case
in your city, your boy will pester you for a head—
gear and shoulder pads. If you are a generous
father, you may also wish to buy him a cheap pair
of pants. Then the boy, with all the drive of a
future All American, goes out to play sand lot
football. Right here lies the danger because, as
most physical directors know, sand lot football is
often a mighty rough version of the real game we
see played on the smooth velvet green in our large
stadiums. Do not be fooled when the boy explains
that he is only goingto participate in a pass and
tap session! Touch football often ends up in
plenty of blocking and tackling when played with—
out supervision on vacant lots.

All of the boys now enrolled in our junior high
schools are'potential All American material. These
boys are interested in everything published about
football. They attend games whenever it is pos-
sible to do so and their knowledge of the game is,
in many instances, uncanny. Coaches should
treat these boys as the coming stars of the football
world, and in the full realization that all youth
should have an equal chance give every boy an

opportunity to make the college player of to-
morrow.

“It was found in the combined high school and
college studies that thirty-one per cent of football
accidents can be eliminated or materially reduced
by adequate leadership, equipment and facilities,
while the remaining sixty-nine per cent was due
to the present nature of the game.

“Inadequate leadership, facilities, and equip—
ment in high schools accounted for fifty per cent
of the football accidents, while in colleges only
twenty-two per cent was due to these types of
causes. Those injuries classified as due to the
nature of the game incurred the remaining fifty per
cent of the injuries in high school, and the remain-
ing seventy-eight per cent in college. This com-
parison indicates a need for better leadership, fa-
cilities and equipment in the high schools, and
either better rules or more strict enforcement of
the present rules in college.”—From Safety in Ath—
letics—The Treatment and Prevention of Athletic
Injuries, by Frank S. Lloyd, Ph.D., George G.
Deaver, M.D., and Floyd R. Eastwood, Ph.D.

Children’s
Choruses

In

Chicago

Children's singing
classes have been
promoted for years

by Chicago's Civic
Music Association

3 SOON AS Christmas week with all its festivi—
A ties was over, the children’s choruses spon-
sored by the Civic Music Association of
Chicago began preparing for their outstanding
event of the year —— the annual May festival
held in Orchestra Hall on Sunday afternoon, May
5th. This festival is an annual concert given dur-
ing the season, and it is presented to show what
has been done in the music classes during the year.
One of the “first activities organized by the As—
sociation, which was founded in June, 1913, was
its children’s singing classes, designed to encour-
age the understanding, appreciation, and study of
the art of music and to promote the development
of musical talent. For twenty-seven years the
Association has provided free of charge unusual
musical privileges to children and young students
with little or no opportunity to participate in good
music. It is maintained en-
tirely by funds contributed by
public-spirited citizens and
music lovers.

Through these weekly sing—
ing classes the Association
seeks to extend musical cul-
ture into the remote neighbor—

Twelve children's choruses are main-
tained by the Civic Music Association
in field houses of the small parks of
Chicago. in orphanages. and in settle-
ments and schools. More than a thou-
sand children are taught each week and
there is a demand for more classes.

 

C hicago Daily News Photo

hoods of the city and to make music a part of the
community life. Twelve children’s choruses are
maintained in field houses of the small parks, in
orphanages, and in settlements and schools. Free
lessons are given each week by a staff of specially
selected teachers who are highly trained in the un-
derstanding of child nature and psychology. Over
a thousand children receive instruction each week.
In addition to learning to appreciate good music
and to participate in it, they are also being taught
the fundamentals of good fellowship and'coopera-
tion. 3y encouraging this participation in musical
activities, the Civic Music Association is helping
to build a city of intelligent music lovers who will
later support symphony orchestras and other mu-
sical activities. The headquarters of the Associa-
tion are at 637 Fine Arts Building, 410 South
Michigan Avenue, Chicago. Miss Werra Schuette
is the executive secretary.

The National Recreation As-
sociation has issued printed
and mimeographed material on
choral and instrumental music.
We shall be glad to send you
a list of these publications.

495

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

E OLOG Y of the Presidential Range, Richard

P. Goldthwait. Academy of Science, Han-
over, New Hampshire. 43 pp. 40 cents. This
treatise is fundamental for the most profitable
recreation trips in New Hampshire’s Mountains.

The School Nature League, American Museum
of Natural History, New York City, has pub-
lished about sixty leaflets on nature study. They
sell at five cents each.

Vacation Time in Denmark. Since 1853, coun-
try children have been going to the city and city
children to the farms. This is carried out under
the direction of school teachers.

Adventures in Biology, New York Association
of Biology Teachers, 102 pp. 50 cents per copy.

Grover Cleveland High School, Queens. Two
hundred and sixty-five successful projects.

Camera trips to photograph nature is a service
offered in some national parks under ranger nat—
uralist leadership.

State Park Naturalist is now listed among the
Civil Service examinations in the State of Illinois.

An Insect “300” of crop pests was featured at
the recent New York State Fair held at Syracuse.

The Indiana Conservation Department now em-
ploys eleven state park naturalists.

The Rock Book, Carroll Lane F enton and Mil-
dred Adams Fenton. Doubleday, Doran, 357 pp.
$6.00. Expensive, but you can understand it.

Little Jungle Village, Jo Besse Waldeck. Vik—
ing Press, 176 pp. $2.00. Two young Indian
pioneers in a South American jungle.

Pleasure with Plants, L. R. Tehon, Natural
History Survey, Urbana,
Illinois. Free. Information
on helpful material.

Great Wings and Small,
Bird stories of our day,
compiled by Frances E.
Clarke. Macmillan Com-
pany, 332 pp. $2.50. Stor-
ies written by master nat—
uralists including Mark
Twain’s Blue-Jay Yarn.

496

"Sometimes beside the trail there is a birch
with a dark band showing where some traveler
had stripped off white outer bark. The one
J who did this is a lover of the wilds—not be-
cause he wanted the bark, but because he came
here. Yet all hikers of this wilderness path
from now on must see the ugly mutilation he
has caused in the otherwise perfect forest.
Could he not have enioyed the beauty of his
surroundings and left the forest as others have
left it for him?"—— From American Forests.

Your Career in Agriculture, Homer P. Ander-
sen. E. P. Dutton. $2.00. Written by one who
has experienced it.

Becomes a great-grandmother in two months.
This is average for the housefly. The swift mo-
bilization of nature news for this column indicates
how important nature recreation is becoming. The
growth is phenomenal. If the times have taught
us to get the most valuable for the least cost, we
are the winners.

Our Forests, David Cushman Coyle. National
Home Library Foundation, 150 pp. 25 cents. Hits
the nail on the head.

Yellowstone National Park, Historical and De—
scriptive (Revised Edition) by H. M. Chittenden.
Stanford University Press, 286 pp. $2.00. A
classic on national parks.

1940 Yearbook, Park and Recreation Progress,
National Park Service. Has many natUralist con-
tributors. 35 cents.

Lake of. the Ozarks Recreational Demonstra—
tion Area, Missouri. Robert Lee Jordan has been
employed as park naturalist.

Turkey Run State Park, Indiana. Mary Hen—
derson is the new museum director.

An Interstate Park Nature Training Institute
will be held at Meramec State Park, Missouri,
next May. Have you planned one for your
district?

Starved Rock State Park, Illinois, Dr. Donald
T. Ries, Park Naturalist, had an attendance of
over two thousand persons at the annual special
week-end nature program.

A state meeting of all
nature committees is be—

ing planned for this fall
by Paul C. Taff, Iowa

State College, and V. W.
Flickinger of the State
Conservation Commission.

Nature tours of Michi-
gan State Parks for this
coming winter, are being

(Continued on page 513)

Their Own Nature Walk Leaders

PPROXIMATELY ten thou-
A sand children of the
Washington public
schools have become familiar
with the natural phenomena
of the National Capital Parks
System during the past spring
semester as a result of a
“Pupil-Leadership” course recently inaugurated
by Donald Edward McHenry, National Capital
Parks Naturalist.

For the past four years Mr. McHenry has per—
sonally conducted a number of nature walks in
the local parks for these school children, about
three thousand of whom were reached during
each season. Believing that a greater number of
children should benent from these experiences,
and hoping to develop future leadership for ap-
preciation of the out of doors, Mr. McHenry hit
upon a new procedure in junior nature study.

In cooperation with local school authorities
eight to ten “apt” pupils were selected from the
sixth grade of ten public schools. A similar num-

 

A "Pupil-Leadership" course
is making it possible For the
school children of Washington
to provide their own leader-
ship For popular nature walks

ber of promising pupils were
also chosen from the fifth
grades of the same schools
to serve as assistant leaders.
\Vhen these sixth grade lead-
ers pass on to Junior High
School, there to become the
nucleus for nature study or
Held biology groups, their places will be Elled by
the assistant leaders of the lifth grades.

These student leaders are put through an in-
tensive course of nature study and tutoring in the
art of guiding nature walk parties. With a
teacher-counselor selected for her interest in this
work, the boys and girls, armed with notebooks,
meet the park naturalist in the park area nearest
their school. The hrst meeting is concerned with
a general introduction to the natural history of
the region. Trees, flowers, birds and rocks, each
come in for their share of attention. During the
intervening week the pupil-leaders, under the su-
pervision of their teacher-counselor, organize their

(Continued on page 506)

‘ , at, _
a . . ,"1‘
V ’ ° ". ’1'

. V
‘ 'WJ '% : J..}.- ‘

Courtesy Park Service Bulletin, Washington, D. C.

497

 

Norristown's "N" Club

HE “N” CLUB was organ-
Tized in 1930 by the ath-

letes of the Norristown,
Pennsylvania. Senior High
School for the purpose of
building up interest in sports
among the students. The charter members were
eighteen varsity and scrub letter winners in vari-
ous high school sports. The objectives having been
set, the Club met regularly during club period
every two weeks during the school year.

The first season was ragged—as in most begin—
ning organizations—but the boys worked toward
their goal. They inaugurated inter—class basket-
ball and inter-class track events in an effort to
bring more students into active participation in
sports.

Immediately before graduation, coaches, teach-
ers, and several key students selected the out—
standing athletes in various sports—football, bas-
ketball, baseball, track, cross—country, tennis, and
swimming—and presented them with inexpensive
statuettes. The outstanding girl athletes in bas-
ketball, swimming, and tennis also received statu—
ettes. In the last assembly program of the school
year, graduating varsity letter winners in the Club
received small gold “N” charms, and scrub letter
winners in the Club were given silver “N” charms.
Although only Club members may receive charms.
practically all high school letter men are in the
Club.

During 1931 and 1932 the same principles were
followed. In these years the membership grew to
about forty boys, all varsity and scrub letter win-
ners. As the Club grew, the athletic interest of
the school increased and the foundation of the
Organization became stronger.

Making Rules

A total of a half dozen rules are sufficient for
the government of the Club. The first ones relate
to membership. Any letter winner—varsity or
junior varsity—is eligible. No boy is asked to
join—he does so of his own accord. He must,
however, join the semester after he receives his
letter or not at all. This clause prevents boys from
jumping from one club to another in order to
have a long list of organizations in the senior

498

This account of a club which serves
both school and community

on material provided by Leroy Lewis.
"N" Club sponsor and supervisor of
Norristown's summer playgrounds.

year book, although they have
given no real help to any club.
The only organization which is
permitted to take a boy from
the “N” Club is the Student
Council which governs student
policies. During the semester in Council the boy
becomes an honorary “N” Club member. The
students may confer two honorary memberships
during the year. Many citizens have been given
the “N” Club charm as honorary members for
their interest in the Club and the service they have
given to it.

The next rule covers elections. The members
elect their own president, vice-president, secretary,
and two treasurers. No one can hold more than
one office during his membership; this gives many
the opportunity to assume responsibility and
leadership.

The last by-law concerns finances. Each mem-
ber must pay his ten cents in dues every two
weeks. The records are audited annually and a
copy of the report is sent to the main office and ‘
to each member.

is based

Activities Increase

From 1933 to 1935 the membership mounted to
seventy boys. The Club sponsored inter-class
touch football, soccer, and softball in addition to
basketball and track. The student body contained
600 boys, and of these 350 participated in some
athletic activity. Numerals were awarded to in-
ter-class winners.

The Club started and maintained athletic inter-
est in grade schools and junior high schools. The ~
players from senior high school teams coached the
grade school teams as competition in basketball, 5
track, and baseball was inaugurated. A circulating
trophy was presented to the winning school; the
winning players received jerseys with school let-
ters on them. The “N” Club sponsored athletic
events in the junior high schools and presented
trophies in championship matches.

Branching out from athletics, the organization
began to take an interest in other projects. The '
members arranged to send gifts to sick or injured -
students, faculty members, and employees of the

(Continued on page 507 )

 

Photo by Detroit News

Centers for Hobbies

RE YOU A WOULD-BE ARTIST who hasn’t anyone
A to sketch with? Do you like ceramics or pot-
tery, but no longer indulge because it’s no

fun to sit and model alone?

Have you studied Spanish or French or other
languages in school or learned to speak them with
the natives in their own country? Now that
you’ve acquired a love for the language, are you
forgetting it because none of your friends speak
or care to speak it? If only you knew someone
to converse with occasionally you’d enjoy it,
wouldn’t you?

Or maybe you love folk dancing because the
colorful costumes, music and steps give you an
insight into the culture and background of a peo-
ple, but your friends think it’s for children, at

least not for intelligent grownups!

Perhaps you always wanted to act but never
had an opportunity. Now your family is grown
up, but they might think mother or dad quite mad
if they knew the many things you’ve longed to
do but never had time for. And here’s life pass-
ing you by! Why not try acting if you love it?
Age is no hindrance. What does it matter whether
you’re sixty or sixteen?

Tap dancing? Why, the family would think
you were in your second childhood, wouldn’t they?
They don’t know that you’ve always secretly

, longed to wiggle your feet to tap rhythm! Some—

how the family would never understand—grown-

The hobby centers of the Detroit
Recreation Department are places

where folks can come together to
share their experiences and ideas

By
VIOLA ARMSTRONG

up men, women, fathers, uncles, aunts, yes, even
grandfathers and“ grandmothers, tap dancing!
Who said it was the younger generation who were
losing their balance? But the family is wrong.
because we’re really all learning to keep our bal-
ance when we do what we want to do most!

Maybe you’re lonely and need a new interest to
challenge you, or perhaps your husband works
nights or goes to his club. If only you could find
a place where you could do something interesting
—not because it is sensible or necessary, but for
the sheer joy of doing things you’ve always
wanted to do with people who want to do
them too!

Here in Detroit there are people just like you
really doing things they like, and what’s more,
they are having fun and making friends at the
same time.

The Answer Is a Hobby Center

No great formality! No complex organization!
No regimentation! No one pays (except twenty—
five cents for a membership card), and no one gets
paid except for a few WPA workers and recre-
ation employees who do it as part of a com-
plete job.

Our hobby center is a place in the city where
folks can come together and share ideas, experi-
ences, and life; where the person who has learned
something worth while in art, music, photography,
fencing, or needlework can find others with whom
to share this knowledge and, in turn, learn some-
thing new and interesting.

Our volunteer teachers all have this spirit of
sharing. We do not want teachers on our staff
who do not awaken in the morning with the eager
thought, “Today is hobby center day,” and feel
truly happy about it. That is the only type of
person, whether faculty or group member, who
has a place in this fascinating, cooperative experi-
ence. We are careful that this is explained to

499

500 CENTERS FOR HOBBIES

hobbyists who volunteer to lead groups, and we
can honestly say that our teachers have seemed
to get as much fun and recreation through, giving
as the group members have through receiving.

Location of the Centers

There are three hobby centers operating in De-
troit with a fourth about to open soon. One is
centrally located downtown at Central Methodist
Church House. The entire six floors of this
splendidly equipped building have been turned
over to the Detroit Department of Recreation one
day each week, with no strings attached. We
serve supper at cost so that anyone who wishes
may come at two o’clock and stay until ten. Hus-
bands may join wives, friends can each indulge in
individual hobbies and meet at nine o’clock for
social or Early American dancing. It is well to
note that Central Methodist Church offered us
their building one day each week as a public con-
tribution. The hobby center idea was the out-
growth of necessity. We had no workers to staff
it—not more than two or three WPA workers,
since it was November and everyone had already
been assigned to the recreation centers. And then
came the idea to bring together experienced hob-
byists and those who needed and longed to acquire
one. It is encouraging to discover how many fine,
unselfish and talented people are to be found in
any city. Their talents and generosity are lying
dormant and only need to be aroused.

The second center is on the west side at the St.
Matthias Episcopal Church, which is smaller and
has only three floors. But every facility possible is
made available to us and every inch of space is
used, although it doesn’t even begin to be adequate.

The east side center is at the Jefferson Avenue
Presbyterian Church. This is a beautifully equip-
ped building and although it is not in a congested
section we are trying to bring the people to the
building, since we cannot take the building to the
people.

For Our Friends from Other Lands

Our fourth center, to be opened this fall, will
be associated with the Inter-
national Center of the Y.W.
CA. Here we h0pe to have a
place where those gifted peo-
ple who have come from other
countries to make their homes
in our democratic nation may
show their appreciation a little

the program.

The attendance last season at the De-
troit hobby center's totaled between
|200 and |500 people. according to
Viola ArmstrongI who is in charge of
Miss
Senior Recreation Instructor of the
Recreation Department of Detroit.

by sharing some of the finest of European arts
and culture with those who are now their friends,
neighbors and fellow citizens.

And there will be a real thrill in learning Swiss
woodcarving from a native of Switzerland, in
conversing in French with a real Parisian or in
Spanish with the daughter of the Cuban Consul
(who has already become inspired with the idea
and offered her services). There one will be able
to receive instruction in petit point from a French
woman, in pottery from a Czech, in leatherwork
from an Italian, embroidery from a Hungarian,
and it will be possible to exchange information on
hobbies of all kinds from many countries.

A Cooperative Venture

And all this is being done at practically no ex-
pense to our city for, as we said before, it is a
cooperative venture in which everyone shares the
cost. The church furnishes heat and light as well
as the building; the Recreation Department or—
ganizes and conducts every detail of the program,
furnishing along with the WPA any necessary
leadership that cannot be found through volun-
teers. Through the cooperation of the Welfare
Department we are able to share in the cleaning
of the building, washing dishes, and serving sup-
per. The N YA contributes workers for our
check room, elevator operators, clerical workers,
and registrars: The twenty-five cent registration
fee for membership cards pays for the cards and
leaves a balance for office supplies.

Meeting Human Needs

Understanding companionship is one of our
greatest needs today. When one finds a common
interest, social and racial barriers disappear, and
disappear they must if America is to be a united
nation. Finding interests in common is the quick-
est road to companionship—and companionship
leads to friendship. Your own friends may
answer many of your needs for companionship
and yet may leave much that is not satisfied.
Common interests build safe foundations for real
friendship. So let’s find those interests!

The value which lies in such
interests was illustrated at one
of the hobby centers where
sitting together happily and
Armshong is companionably were a alittle
clerk in one of our largest cut-

rate drug stores and a person-

s ,4-

CENTERS FOR HOBBIES 501

~' nel manager from an exclusive department store.
They were modeling clay and loving it as they
laughed and chatted together. Meeting under
other circumstances these two might never have
discovered their mutual interest.

And when we speak of a cooperative experience
we mean just that. It was really inspiring to have
the hobby editor of one of our largest newspapers
offer to lead a group if we would promise that the
fact would get no publicity. He was doing it for
the sake of sharing and did not want it generally
known. An executive from another well-known
paper offered to teach a group in public speaking.
The advertising manager of one of our exclusive
stores volunteered to take a motion picture group.

One night a newspaper photographer, coming
‘ to our central hobby center to take news pictures,
nearly dropped his camera in amazement when he
found the official photographer of a rival paper in
the leather class which he was about to photo-
-~graph. He made great sport of it, offering to give
the used bulbs to his co-worker as a souvenir and
threatening to put his picture on the front page!
Much good-natured fun followed. _

One girl who comes down for her “day off”
cares for an invalid mother constantly. She has
become so interested in ceramics and has accom—
plished so much that she can now make pottery at
home while watching her mother and has found a
market for many of her pieces. Thus she not only
keeps her own and her mother’s interest aroused
and stimulated, but receives some much needed
aid as well.

Another girl who comes for sketching, though
happily married with a home and fine husband, is
having a desperate mental struggle. She comes to
us trying to find an interest so absorbing that she
may forget herself. Hospitals and specialists have
done all they can for her. The rest she must do
herself and We are trying to help.

For others it is mother’s day out— from two
o’clock to ten—with no supper to prepare. Hus-
band may join wife for supper and in the evening
I they will enjoy separate or mutual hobbies. Busi-
ness people who have little Opportunity for social
companionship with one another during working
hours find it here while fencing, dancing, or eat-
lng together.

Hobbies Multiply

In the future we expect to add many new hob-
bies to the following list which was in effect last
year: arts and crafts, dressmaking, tailoring, mil-

linery, crocheting and knitting, leather tooling,
ceramics and pottery, jewelry making, wood carv—
ing, charcoal sketching, oil painting, water colors,
China painting, antiques, social dancing (ball-
room), Early American dancing, tap dancing, folk
dancing, Rhumba, Tango, hiking, dramatics, chess,
contract bridge, home problems, Hy casting, pho-
tography, motion pictures, radio, fencing, stamp
collecting, French, choral singing, music apprecia-
tion, traditional games, personal charm, public
speaking, book group, home nursing, gymnastics.

New hobbies which may be added this fall are
countryside group, metal work, puppetry, cooking
of all ' countries: piano, journalism, short story
telling, Swiss woodcarving, Hungarian, Italian,
French, and Swiss needlework.

In an article entitled “From Garage to Craft
Center” which appeared in the November issue of
The Girl Scout Leader, Marie Bond tells how the
Girl Scouts of Madison, Wisconsin, secured their
craft center. After long search it was decided to
use the corner of an immense garage and storage
room. The place found, the girls immediately
went to work.

“Armed with brushes, brooms, and some white-
wash we pounced upon this corner, which is an
area of around 25’x3o’ within a larger area
85’ x 90’. The room was well lighted, heated with
overhead heating pipes, and had toilet facilities,
water, and electricity. We had very little in equip-
ment—namely, one hammer, a few used nails,
several coping saws minus blades, a few half-tilled
cans of paint, and a bottle of shellac. So we sat
down and made up a list of the necessities, such
as tables, cupboards, and seats. Since it was Sep-
tember when all this was being started, we asked
the Park Board to lend us tables and benches,
which it most graciously did, installing them, all
freshly painted a nice dark green. We gathered
together a number of nail kegs, which various
troops later on made into beautiful and comfort-
able seats by covering and upholstering them. One
troop collected, painted and set up some twenty—
odd orange crates for CUpboards; another troop
made curtains, painting and tinting pine cones for
tie-backs, and so it went on and on.

“A newspaper gave us a nice story which
brought a sewing machine from the Singer Com-
pany and many other useful articles. A local
agency built us a coat rack and a quaint table with
two benches. Some woolen floor covering was

(Continued on page 504)

WORLD AT PLAY

SOUTH PASADENA,
California, has a new
center occupying a
square block of some
two and a half acres which contains the following
facilities, all of them night-lighted: an $85,000
swimming pool and combination bathhouse and
community building; two hard surfaced tennis
courts and a hard surfaced multiple-use panel con-
taining four badminton courts; a combination bas-
ketball and volleyball court; three shuffleboards;
and a small sized turfed softball field. The bath-
house and community building contains five good
sized rooms available for general recreational pur-
poses. At the present time these rooms are used
for clay modeling and sculpturing, general handi-
crafts, social recreation, a junior museum and
nature center, and a general meeting room. Ample
storage space is provided.

South Pasadena’s
New Center

AN abandoned fire sta-
tion in \Naterworks
Park, Detroit, will
soon- be turned into a
hobby center at which any citizen can make any-
thing he desires if he furnishes the materials. The
unused stone station will be known as the Sylvia
Allen Hobby Center and will be altered to accom-
modate hobbyists. Work benches and light lathes
for model construction will eventually replace
emergency sliding poles and circular staircases.

Fire House Becomes
Hobby House

THERE are few locked
cages or glassed-in
bowls at the Children’s
Museum in Ann Ar-
bor, Michigan, where an old schoolhouse is in the
process of becoming a permanent museum for
youngsters. Many of the children have brought
their own specimens to the exhibition room where
on Monday and Wednesday afternoons they can
inspect the donated animals and often handle
harmless snakes or turtles.‘ The steadily growing
population of the museum already includes a
crayfish, turtles, gartersnakes, insects, porcupine,
kingsnake, cornsnake, white mice and snails.
Mounted birds and photographs of wild life have
been placed on tables and along the walls. Other
plans for the future include hobby clubs for the
children and a pioneer cabin project in the rear.

502

A Children’s Museum
in Ann Arbor

MORE than 200 girls
from Illinois met at
MacMurray College in
June for the first Il-
linois Girls’ State, patterned after the five-year-
old Boys’ State. For one week the girls were citi-
zens of a mythical state in which they held all
city, county, and state offices. These self-govern-
ing citizens faced problems of the practical opera-
tion of government and took a lesson in the
responsibilities and duties of citizens in a de-
mocracy. The Boys’ and Girls’ States are spon-
sored by the American Legion and its Auxiliary
in an effort to teach citizenship through leisure.

A “Girls’ State” in
Illinois

THE Department of
Parks in New York
City has devised a
novel plan for inter-
esting young citizens in the Zoo animals. Through
“animal-naming contests” children will select ap—
propriate names for new arrivals, a black leopard,
two sea lions, a yak, antelope, pair of red deer,
lion cubs, tiger cub and monkeys. Proposed names
will reveal the animals’ habits, actions, attitudes,
color, physical appearance, or place of origin.
Signs bearing the winning names and names of
winners will be placed on the cages.

Naming New Animals
in New York’s Zoo

A BICYCLE ride and a"
painless history lesson.
are provided by the?
Recreation Depart;
ment of Reading, Pennsylvania, in its historical
bicycle pilgrimages. A recent trip to the Daniel
Boone homestead in Exeter township included
seven hours of riding, swimming, eating, and lec- _
ture-absorbing. At the Boone birthplace, the group ',
of boys and girls stopped to see the homestead and f
rested in a shady grove while they heard the life:
story of the Berks-born Kentucky pioneer.

Bicycle Pilgrimage
in Reading, Pa.

OKLAHOMA CITY,
Oklahoma, has ex-
panded its physical fa-i
cilities 350 per cent
over what they were ten years ago, according to
the annual report for 1939. The city’s population-
has increased seventeen per cent in the past ten
years and the use of public areas or parks more.

Park Area Increased in
Oklahoma City

WORLD AT PLAY . 503

than 100 per cent. The Park Department spent
$206,679 for maintenance and program in 1930.
During 1939 the expenditure was $161,001, or
twenty-two per cent less than the amount ex-—
pended ten years ago. The great need is for in-
creased funds which will make it possible for the
Department to expand its program to meet grow-
ing needs.

Wider Use of Recreational Demonstration
Areas—The year 1939 showed a substantial in-—
creased use of recreational demonstration areas in
the eastern region. A total of 190,136 seasonal per-
mit camper days can be compared with 104,323
in 1938. Short-term camper days totaled 48,347
against 31,913. Totals of all camper days were
238,483 for 1939, and 136,236 for 1938. The
number of visitors recorded at the areas in 1939
was 832,143.

A New Recreation Association in Canada——
As a result of a conference attended by delegates
from Moose Jaw, Regina, and Saskatoon, a Pro-—
vincial Recreation Association was organized. It
will be the purpose of the association to create
public interest in organized recreation and the
value of parks; to foster and maintain high stand-—
ards in recreation; to obtain the assistance of
superior governments in financing recreation; to
encourage study and research in recreation; and to
publish and disseminate information concerning
the activities of the organization.

Cedar Rapids Garden Club—Eighteen hun-
dred and sixty-three children are enrolled in the
- garden club program conducted by the Play—
ground and Recreation Commission of Cedar
. Rapids, Iowa. Over fifteen hundred have home
gardens, and garden areas are provided at nine
locations for boys and girls who do not have gar-
dens at home. Thirty members of the club ex-
hibited flowers at the gladiola show last year. In
appreciation of their efforts the club presented two
dozen gladiola bulbs to each of the exhibitors.
Through a cooperative arrangement between the
State Conservation Commission and the Recrea-
tion Commission a naturalist has been employed
at Palisades State Park, and nature classes will
be conducted on the playgrounds two days a week.

A “Baby Park” for Chicago—Residents in a
large block in the Irving Park District, Chicago,
for many years have been depositing rubbish in a
small triangular-shaped lot located Within the

* 1!:
Singing America
A New Kind of

Song and Chorus Book
Compiled, Edited and Arranged for

THE NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

We are proud to be the publishers of the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s new song and
chorus book.

Here is a new kind of music book for recrea-
tional, school, civic and social groups. At a time
when all the Americas are drawing closer together,
a book that contains the songs and song-dances
of so many different countries of the Western
Hemisphere is particularly welcome. There are
selections from Scuth America, Mexico and Cen-
tral America, Canada, Cuba and Puerto Rico. The
original Spanish, Portuguese and French-Canadian
texts are given, with English translations.

In addition, Singing America oiiers a rich treas-
ury of music from all the national and cultural
sources that have contributed'to the civilization of
the Western world. These include Early American
songs, English carols, patriotic numbers, both the
“white” and Negro spirituals, and folk songs
from all over the world. Finally, there are songs
from the great composers as well as from recent
and contemporary composers of note.

Indeed: “Here in 120 songs and choruses is a
symphony of the living America which stretches
from pole to pole and from coast to coast.”

Vocal Edition, $0.25

C  gircbavb 2}. Co.

I ZZI COLUMBUS‘AVENUE.BOSTON. MASSACHUSETTS I

block and bounded by alleys. Then someone saw
the possibilities of this section of land edged with
huge old willow trees, and accordingly the grove
was cleared—to be used as a “baby park.” The
Recreation Committee of the Irving Park Com-
munity Council intends to equip the little park
with sand boxes, benches, and other facilities so
that young children will have a place to play away
from traffic hazards and busy streets.

 

Study Leisure Needs—The group work di-
vision of the Los Angeles Council of Social Agen-
cies will soon undertake a study of the leisure time
needs of that city’s young men and women be-
tween the ages of eighteen and thirty—five. The
study will have two aims: first, to determine, by a
study of social information about unmarried

504 WORLD AT PLAY

Here’s the

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
madeI Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who Imow the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catang No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK H0RSESH0E560.

4b|0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

 

young adults, where in Los Angeles are the great-
est needs for recreational activities; and second,
to give basic program recommendations and sug-
gestions to existing social agencies in Los Angeles.

A Quiet Games Club—Senior members of
the Strykers Lane Community Center of New
York City are organizing a Quiet Games Club for
members who prefer a session of checkers, Chin-
ese checkers, backgammon, bridge, pinochle,. or

   

   

FOR THE HOLIDAYS

HOLIDAY PARTIES . . . . $|.50

Dorothy Gladys Spicer

Party suggestions tor Thanksgiving. Christmas and
the New Year—complete from invitations to tavors.

MUSIC SUGGESTIONS FOR THE
CHRISTMAS SEASON 40 cents

Resources for the Christmas program including the
historical background of carols. the hanging of the
greens and a catalog of Christmas music for organ.
piano. vioIin and string quartet.

THE WOMANS PRESS

I 600 Lexington Avenue. New York. N. Y. I

     
      
   
   
   
   
       
   
   

 

chess. Guest eXperts will give pointers if re—
quested on the finer points of 'the games and the
Club will be open to anyone interested in the
“quiet” sports.

Kansas City “Y” Sponsors Supervised Dances
—Boys and girls in Kansas City can dance every
Thursday evening at the Y.W.C.A. for ten cents

each. Members of the Leisure-Time Committee

have set up a few rules which they enforce at the
8:00—11:00 P. M. dancing parties. Those who at-
tend must be over sixteen, must conduct them-
selves properly, and are not allowed to smoke in
the building. Dancing instruction is given from
8 zoo-9 :oo. This attempt at dry-night-clubbing has
proved popular with both yOung people and their
parents and the weekly dances will be included in
the weekly program of the Y this fall.

Horseback Riding— Oak Park, Illinois, has
been added to the list of cities developing horse-i
back riding through their municipal recreation de-
partments. All five playgrounds, according to the
i939 report, are conducting classes in horseback
riding, special rates having been secured through
arrangements with a number of stables. Enroll-
ment for the year was well over 200. The Play—
ground Board feels that in horseback riding it has
a new activity which provides zestful recreation
to older boys and girls. Some of the young rid—
ers have made their own outfits and insignias at
Andersen Playground where seventy were enroll-
ed. A club was organized under the name “An-
dersen Troopers.” The children showed such re—m
markable progress that twenty-two selected were;
by the. director of Greentree Stables to enter the
fall horse show. Several parties and outings were
held, and a wiener roast ended the season.

Recreation Facilities Improved—A $75,000
bond issue has been passed in Peru, Illinois, for“
remodeling the township high school community;
center. The building, after remodeling, will con-f
tain two gymnasiums. A partition will be used in'
the varsity gymnasium to provide space for boysu'
and girls, while the other gymnasium will be used:
exclusively for physical education.

Centers tor Hobbies
(Continued from page 501)

bartered for two linoleum rugs. By October 18,~
1939, we were ready for our Open House. . . . By
December our equipment cupboard had taken 011?

RECREATION AND BETTER HUZIIAN RELATIONS 505

quite a professional air. Our pride and joy is a
brand new jig-saw with an electric motor. We
hope to install a loom or two this fall.

“For instructors and helpers we have art stu-
dents from the University and the Vocational
School, besides various persons with craft hob-
bies which they are glad to pass on to our girls.
Our rent is covered by our local council, and the
girls pay for materials, so expenses are small.”

Recreation and Better Human Relations
(Continued from page 466)
the sun would return. Our Christmas Day is the

beginning of a fortnight of joy and recreation
with which we defy the threat of the evil trolls
of ice and snow.

As we descend into the darkness of interna—
tional conflict and civilization seems to enter upon
'an eclipse, we should remember the good customs
of our ancestors and play harder than ever. Let
us play in camp when the soldiers come in from
their manoeuvres. Let the children play who are
left at home. Let juvenile delinquence not increase
as it did in the World War, because play was

neglected. Let us learn the value of .play in court-H

ship and in marriage, the play of father and
mother with sons and daughters, for play is the
way to wholeness, yes and even to holiness. For
we know that unless we become as little children,

whose life is play, we shall never enter the
kingdom. '

An Experiment in Community

Recreation
( C ontimtcd from page 482)

The advantages are felt most in those neigh-
‘ borhoods wherein strong and prosperous civic as-
sociations exist. Unfortunately, poorer, more con—
jested areas seldom have strong community
organizations. Therefore, no one comes forward
with the necessary leadership for group enjoyment
of available facilities.

Indeed, it is just here that the program has
bogged down a bit in all districts. While a'dult
groups have been quick to respond for their own
activities, few have supplied adult leaders for
children’s day—time play groups. Parents need a
bit of prodding here. Many of those interviewed
in districts not producing a leader, indicated
that the deposit had stood in the way. Others felt
that they had not known about the plan in time
to arrange for a leader during the present season
but intended to have one for next year.

In its discussion of the pros and cons of this

   
   

   

 

AN"

AS Originally
Developed by. . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas

Lawrence, Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-

ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating
exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive LicenseIAgreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street at a. a. at a.

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

m

new. plan for local play groups, the Baltimore
Evening 5 1m recently pointed out this very weak-
ness in the set-up offers an opportunity and a
challenge to the entire city. Strong civic groups
need not limit their activity to one neighborhood,
this paper reminded its readers. One such group
could accept responsibility for the.deposit and the
leadership of groups in less favored districts.
One unexpected result has been heartening and
deserves mention. That is that even in districts

Model Airplane
Contests

AN AIR YOUTH GUIDE WITH OFFICIAL RULES

Would you like to conduct your own model air-
plane contests? Then here is a book you should
read, for it covers thoroughly all the informa-
tion you need; cost, sites, equipment, types of
contests, etc. It’s the ideal guide for every boy,
girl or adult whose hobby is model airplane Hying.
Foreword by Winthrop Rockefeller. Charts and
diagrams. $1.25

D. APPLETON—CENTURY CO. 35 W. 32nd St. New York

   
     
   
     
          
     

a» St. Louis. Mo.

506 HOBBYTOWN

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

Does Your Community

Measure Up?

0 Much interest was shown at the Na-
tional Recreation Congress at Cleve-
land in the subject of standards for
municipal recreation leadership, fa-
cilities, activities, and services, and
there was general recognition of the
need for a measuring rod to help
communities determine how far they
are furnishing well-rounded recrea-
tion opportunities to their citizens.

 
 
   
 
 
   
  

The National Recreation Association
announces the revision of its Schedule
for the Appraisal of Community Recrea-
tion, which has 'been widely used. The
Schedule may be secured for 50 cents.
A scoring sheet is included with each
schedule. Anyone desiring an addi-
tional set of these sheets may secure

NATIONAL
RECREATION ASSOCIATION

3|5 Fourth Avenue New York City

 
 

 

 

 

 

where playgrounds have not been used, criticism
of school administrators for restricting the use of
public property maintained at taxpayers’ expense
has been effectively silenced.

Hobbytown
(Continued from page 486)

balsa wood ships and printers’ apprentices set up
the Times and settlement bulletins in the print
shop.

Late in August, when the summer-city was
about to be closed and the Settlement resumed its
fall schedule, factories closed their doors, the bank
called in all work vouchers and issued “milk
bucks” to be spent at the gala Mardi Gras all-day
festival. Citizens paid their bills and profits were
distributed at a final meeting of the board of
directors.

Doors opened at one o’clock on August 22, and
Hobbytown children and their parents celebrated
their municipal holiday with dance carnivals, track
meets, swimming party, badminton tournament,
and fun fests. But for many of the neighborhood
children the high spot of the Carnival was the
prize presentation for the Better Neighborhood

contest sponsored by the Irene Kaufmann Se’t-
tlement.

Many of the young gardeners in the contest
had only old packing boxes or tin cans in which i0
plant tiny alley gardens. To hundreds of narrd‘w
courtyards behind dilapidated houses they carted
soil from other sections of Pittsburgh and planted
their flowers and trees. More than a thousand
children found in the competition an opportunity
to bring beauty to their homes and often-dingy
surroundings. Fifteen prize winners had in addi-
tion beautiful American flags to fly from the
windows of their homes.

N ow that the summer-city is closed, settlement
workers hope to continue the Hobbytown program
into September and some are visualizing a year-
round leisure-time community in the five-story
Irene Kaufmann House where the young citizens
of Pittsburgh are earning and learning to live.

Their Own Nature Walk Leaders

( Continued from page 497)
field notes and add such new material as can be

secured from references suggested by the park
naturalist.

At the second meeting, in addition to reviewing
the material in the held, each pupil-leader is as—
signed to a definite route through the area, and
each is drilled in the significant features along his
own particular route. At the next meeting each
pupil-leader is required to conduct his fellow
pupil-leaders over his assigned trail, leading them
in a confident and interesting manner without the
aid of notes.

Groups of from live to eight children from the
third grade of their school are organized for the
fourth field excursions, each group being assigned
a number corresponding to that given the various
pupil-leaders. The third grade is selected to start
the nature walks because these children are old
enough to understand what the trip is about and
young enough to look up to a sixth grade leader.
This is the last time the park naturalist is present.
He does not enter into the program but merely
observes how things are going.

Immediately after the walk, he calls a council
of the pupil-leaders and makes suggestions for
improvement based upon his observation. On all
subsequent trips, during which the remaining
children of the school take part, the pupil—leaders
are left to their own resources.

The results have been so surprising that Mr.
McHenry intends to expand the work next school
year. It is proposed to supplement this outdoor

 

 

* history

NORRISTOLVN’S “N” CLUB

work by school assembly talks on local natural
subjects illustrated by Kodachrome

pictures.

The success of the project is all the more
amazing when it is considered that these leaders
have been selected from children most of whom
are under twelve years of age.

Norristown's "N" Club
(Continued from page 498)
school. They began contributing to summer play-

grounds for the purchase of handcraft material.
The sphere of activity had widened until children
from six to fourteen years of age were included
in games, recreation, competition, and handcraft.

The “N” Club in 1940

The membership at present totals over ninety
boys; one in every nine boys in the high school

' belongs to the “N” Club, and most of the athletes

of the school are members. Active participation
in sports is fostered, as when the Club was or-
ganized, by grade school and inter—class junior
and senior high school athletic events. During ten
years, however, the primary objective has altered
greatly. The goals have changed, but the real
change has been in the high school athletes them-
selves. The members of the “N” Club feel the
responsibility of leadership in every school ac-
tivity. They have put themselves into every phase
of school life. “N” Club members are to be found
in the Student Council, National Honor Society,
school plays, musical organizations, art societies,
vocational societies, as well as among class officers.

Since 1930 the Club has earned over $4,000.
The group contributed $100 toward an organ in
the new high school and $100 toward two score
boards in the gym; they expect to give $50 toward

. a new school dental clinic. Money is raised in the

following ways: an annual barn dance each Octo-

I ber; sale of football program cards; basketball

games followed by dances; and sale of refresh-
ments at the spring track meet.
This Club in no way interferes with the varsity

' athletic government. All varsity athletics are su—

pervised by an Athletic Council which holds
monthly meetings.

In 1936, after the “N” Club had functioned
successfully for six years, the Girls’ Physical
Education Coach started the same type of organ-
ization for girl athletes. The particulars and re-
sults of the girls’ venture are much the same as

in the boys’ “N” Club.

 

507

 

SMASH
GO
PRICES

 

 

 

on the genuine world-famous

“JUNGLEGYM"

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

The "perfect playground device"-—-as authori-
ties the world over have called the "Iunglegym"
Climbing Structure— is now available at new
prices more than 50 per cent below the former
level. Mass production, made possible by the
ever-growing demand for this item, has enabled
us to make these drastic price reductions. Write
for our descriptive booklet telling why the "Iun-
glegym" Climbing Structure is the safest, most
economical, most educational, most all-around

desirable play apparatus you can buy. New
prices are quoted with the booklet.

Send for our beautiful new Recreation Equipment
Catalog. just off the press!

11
THE 1- En  CORPORATION

OTTAWA 1k ILLINOIS

 

Manufacturers of the famous "Louden." "Chicago" and "Spalding"
lines of playground. swimming pool and gymnasium equipment

Fun at the "Meetin' Place"
(Continued from page 490)

Refreshments
Refreshments might be served in tin plates and
tin cups from a “prairie schooner” made from an
old cart and brown cambric or paper. If the crowd
is small enough for a covered dish Supper, each
family might bring a dish from “grandmother’s

{CAN’T DO IT

By Alexander Van Rensselaer

A hundred and two stunts and practical jokes.
The much hoped for answer to what will we do
now? Bore-proof stunts that call for a demon-
stration of skill or wit—all you have to do to
keep your party on its toes is to bring out a
copy of this book and watch fun and hilarity

Illustrated. $1.50
At All Booksellers
D. APPLETON-CENTURY COMPANY 35 W. 32nd St, New York

run rampant.

508 GAMES FOR ALL

 

The MINI-GOLF series of Games made their
debut at the National Recreation Congress held in
Cleveland during the week of September 30-
October 4, 1940.

Recreation Leaders attending saw them and liked
them. We shipped them games from New York

to Hawaii.
The MINI-GOLF Games are designed on sound
principles of group recreation. They are

Educational . . Instructive . . Entertaining

Competitive and. last but not
least. Inexpensive

Sold by Department Stores and Sport-Goods
Dealers Throughout America

Write for Circular

BEAL'S GAMES INC.

277 Fifth Avenue. New York City. N. Y. '
THIRTY-SEVEN YEARS A LEADER IN RECREATION

recipe book.” Other suggestions are: baked beans
with salt pork, brown bread, corn bread, hard
tack, berries, dried beef, pancakes, fried mush
and bacon, Indian pudding, gingerbread.

Light refreshments, on the other hand, might

consist of apples, cider, doughnuts, or pumpkin -

pie and coffee.
Storytelling

After the games are over and the winning “pio-
neer settlement” has been announced on the basis
of total scores, some of the guests may want to
gather around the “campfire” at one end of the
room and listen to stories of early days. The older
people in the community might be invited in ad-
vance to tell stories of their own experiences and
recollections.

“Good Night Ladies!”

A few rousing choruses of the old favorites and
“Good Night Ladies” will bring the party to a
successful conclusion. Based on what is known of
the old songs, dances, and activities, the unanimous
opinion of the party guests will be that the pio-
neers possessed a strong and line spirit of fun
along with their grim determination.

 

Games for All

HIRTY-FIVE YEARS AGO Frank Peer Beal, for

thirty-seven years actively associated with the
recreation movement, first played paddle tennis in
his backyard in Albion, Michigan. The net was
made of chicken wire; discarded tapes from the
tennis courts of Albion College were used; and
the paddles were made of one inch maple. With
this equipment members of the family and their
neighbors enjoyed the game.

One day while weeding onions in a market
garden Mr. Real found a twenty dollar gold piece.
Four dollars of this lucky find was immediately
expended for two ancient and honorable Geneva
tennis rackets, and for a time paddle tennis was
relegated to the shelf while Mr. Beal played in
tennis tournaments in college in this country, in
North China where he was in charge of physical .
education under the government from 1910 to
1912, and later as a postgraduate of Harvard Uni-
versity. Returning to New York City, where
places to play tennis were at a premium, he re-
vived paddle tennis at Washington Square in 1921.

Today the game is being played by over a mil-
lion young people on play streets, school and pub—
lic playgrounds, indoors and outdoors, in parks,
churches, and gymnasiums, and is fast becoming a
popular intramural sport at colleges and acade-
mies. Nor has the game been limited to America.
In England, China, France, and Mexico it has
found many enthusiastic players.

The provision of sufficient space for such games
as regulation tennis is always a problem for rec-
reation centers, especially in large cities in con-
gested neighborhoods. For this reason paddle ten-
nis is felt to be a particularly good game for a
recreation center. The playing area is the same as
that devoted to deck tennis, badminton, volleyball
and similar games. All of them group games, and i
the setting aside of one section to include them ,
all enables the recreation worker to achieve the '
maximum of group activity in a minimum of play- 1
ing space.

For those individuals and groups not restricted
by financial considerations, Platform Paddle Ten- -
nis, played on a 20’ by 44’ court requiring special
construction, has become a popular sport. This
equipment requires an outlay of about $600. A

For the benefit of recreation groups wishing to 1
play badminton at recreation centers but unable
to pay for rackets and shuttlecocks, an adaptation "
known as “Padminton” has been devised. A

“ROLL CALL” 509

THANK YOU-$0 MUCH!

We bought this space in Recreation just in order

to thank you one and all for the line reception you

We enjoyed every minute

of our visit with you at

your National Conven-
tion in Cleveland.

gave our equipment at the show, and to tell you that
before bat buying time rolls around We’ll send you

a catalog containing complete descriptions and

pictures of the Louisville Slugger models you saw

 
  
 
 
 
  
 

BASEBALL
AND

SOFTBALL
BATS

wooden racket, light and yet durable, has been
designed and experimentation is going on with
shuttlecocks which will be inexpensive but which
will give long service.

Golf is another game which is undergoing
adaptation for wider use. As a playground director,
Mr. Bea] watched children shooting checkers and
pOp bottle tops at a target or at an opponent’s
checker. He observed that some of the more in-
genious children placed a thumbtack on the bot-
tem of the checker, thus securing an advantage
in slide over the opponent’s checker. This simple
device has been made the basis of a spheroid with
a low center of gravity, which will fill the need
for an inexpensive substitute and may be used for
putting on a smooth surface of wood, cement, or
linoleum. A homemade wooden golf putter has
been fashioned, and with these two pieces of
equipment it is possible for a child to learn the
rudiments of the game of golf about which he has
heard much but which he could not afford to play.

Experimentation in the development of the
spheroid, now known as the “Mini-Golf ball,” has

resulted in a series of games other than golf built
about this ball. ShuH-Off, played with the Mini-

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO.MPANY,INc.. LOUISVILLE. KY.

on display. Our golf catalog will also be included.

Again, thank you so much!

 

Golf ball, brings to the home the international
game of shufHeboard, and the ball, sliding as it
does instead of rolling, makes possible an interest-
ing indoor croquet game. Thus through constant
experimentation new games and adaptations of old
ones are being developed which will provide for
wide participation on the part of all, regardless of
financial status, in the popular modern forms of

recreation.

NOTE: The hrst national paddle tennis indoor cham-
pionship tournament will be held in February, 1941, in

New York City.

"Roll Call"

Stanley W. Krebs, American composer and
pianist, has composed a “Roll Call” to be sounded
on bugle, cornet or trumpet, organ, piano, gongs,
bells, and similar instruments. It may be used to
signal a period of silence or to precede the read—
ing of names, unveiling of memorials, planting of
memorial trees, and the laying of wreaths on land
or water. Though copyrighted by Mr. Krebs, its
performance is permitted gratis. Further infor—
mation may be secured from Mr. Krebs at 531
Eighty-first Street, Brooklyn, New York.

510

In a field as crowded and demand-
ing as the teaching profession.
how can one be sure of success?

Question:

By using JUNIOR ARTS AND AC-

Answer:TIVITIES. the most helpful magazine

for the teacher who wants to get ahead.

According to thousands of successful teachers who
use it. IUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES now ranks as

the best-liked, the most useful and helpful magazine
published in the interest of teacher and pupil.

Its popularity is due to the wealth of full-page (9x12
inches) project illustrations. accurate and up-to-date
work material. creative activities, units. practical
ideas and suggestions that fill every issue—to its
usable source material and construction work corre-
lating with regular school subjects.

IUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES adds new features
as teachers ask for them, presents worth-while con-
temporary events in a way that can be used in the
classroom. Such a recent feature is the Admiral Byrd-
Antarctic material that started in the January issue.

And here's an exclusive feature of JUNIOR ARTS

AND ACTIVITIES; Teachers can obtain the same

project material shown in each issue. printed on one
side of the sheet only. This service enables a
teacher to give individual work sheets to each child
—-a big time saver for the busy teacher.

You can be the judge. Send in your subscription on
the coupon provided. If. after examining the first
issue, you are not entirely satisfied that JUNIOR
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES will definitely help you and

your pupils. you may cancel your subscription order
by notifying us within ten days.

Subscribe Now!

10 BIG ISSUES
FOR ONLY..... ............ .. 

JUN IOB ARTS
AN I) ACTIVITIES

740 Bush Street Chicago. Illinois

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
740 Rush Street. Chicago. Illinois

Please enter my subscription to JUNIOR ARTS AND
ACTIVITIES for one year (10 iSSues), to Start with

. ...... .. I am enclosing $2.00
 ..  Bill me for $2.00

 

FOR ROD AND REEL DEVOTEES

For Rod and Reel Devotees

IN THE CITY of Dayton, Ohio, are some of the
most enthusiastic casters in the country. For
the past few years this casting fraternity has used
a portable platform over a lagoon in Island Park,
but because this platform was not large enough to
accommodate all those who Wished to use it, a
new casting pool for Dayton fans is now being
built. The specially constructed pool will be 150
feet in diameter and from six to eighteen inches
in depth. A five-foot cement walk will make it

possible'for several hundred devotees to use the
pool at the same time. A shelter house containing

the necessary facilities. is also planned.

In a Recreation News Letter, Ella Gardner,

Recreation Specialist, Extension Service, United
States Department of Agriculture, reports that in
several of the camps, especially the conservation
camps, casting has become a popular sport. A!
bamboo pole about nine feet long, complete with
line and reel, is the standard equipment. For the
sake of safety a canvas bag of sand weighing
about four ounces replaces the lead weight. Cast-
ing into a bushel basket or whitewashed automo-
bile tire from a line about 100 feet away is an
absorbing sport. In one camp an open wood frame

about five feet high was placed in front of a tire, '

and the pIUg had to go through the opening, which
was about two by three feet, and hit in the tire
to score. In this camp tying flies and making rods
from bamboo poles were popular handcrafts.
The Mayor’s office of North Plainfield, New
Jersey, in 1939 conducted a fishing contest for

children in the Extension Lake at Green Brook ?

Park. kThe lake was stocked with trout by the

State Fish and Game Commission, and children .
under fourteen were permitted to enter the con- t

test. A somewhat similar contest was held at

Pioneer Park, Provo City, Utah, when 400 pounds 3

of fish were used in the stream running by the,”

park. The children brought containers in which
to carry home the fish they caught, and more than.
I, 500 boys and girls participated in the fish “grab” -
which was followed by a candy shower.

Congress Proceedings

Order from the National Recreation Associa- I

tion your copy of the Proceedings containing re-

ports of the addresses and summaries of the dis-’
cussion meetings at the Recreation Congress at'.

. . . I
Cleveland. You w111 not want to nnss thls report

of an outstanding Congress. Price $1.00.

TO PROMOTE BETTER UNDERSTANDING 511

The New Boole

To Promote Better
Understanding

HE INTERNATIONAL Friendship League, Inc.,
was organized ten years ago for the purpose
of promoting better understanding among the
school children of the world through personal
correspondence. Through the departments of
education in eighty—six countries and territories,
long lists of names and addresses, ages as well as
special interests of boys and girls who are anxious
to have “pen” friends in the United States are
sent to League headquarters to be distributed
through the teachers to school children in this
country. Up to this time it has been estimated
that several million letters have been exchanged.
Foreign letters bring the ever changing fascination
of the world’s lands and peoples to the school
children. Teachers End that the first-hand infor-
mation that the children receive from personal
friends of their own ages is helpful in the studies
of geography. history, sociology and other re-
lated subjects. Practically all the correspondence
is done in the English language because English
in being taught in the schools throughout the
world. The League estimates that up to the pres-
:nt time five million letters have been exchanged
between boys and girls in the six continents. Be-
.:ause of the war a number of countries in Europe
ire not participating in the plan now. However,
:he rest of the world is cooperating. and the South
Xmerican countries are showing particular inter-
:2st and enthusiasm.
If teachers will write to the League office, 41
 Vernon Street, Boston, enclosing self—ad-
I lressed stamped envelopes, full material will be
' .ent. Names of teachers in the district who have
:ooperated with the League in the past will be
em on request. Dr. John Studebaker, Commis-
lvioner of Education in the United States, is
rinxious to see this correspondence plan in as
nany schools in this country as possible.

A Layman Looks at the Cleveland

Congress
(Confirmed from page 467)
egronal conferences which would include mem-

ers as well as executives.

Yet another fact that makes a deep impression
n a back seat observer at a national recreation
ongress is the fact that recreation leaders be-
eve. in recreation enough to devote several hours

 

 

THE HDMINISTRHTION
OF PUBLIC RECREHTION

 

is a complete, up-to-date guide to

the basic principles and most effec-
tive practices in all departments

of public recreation administration.

\VRITTEN by George Hjelte, Superintendent of
Recreation for the City of Los Angeles, this
book contains a complete discussion of the ad—
ministrative problems involved in local commu—
nity recreation, whether conducted under city.
county, or public school auspices. It covers all
such matters as the organization and financing
of Imunicipal or county recreation departments,
the acquisition of recreation properties, the co—
ordination of various agencies for recreation
work. and the many details of personnel, bud-
geting, record—keeping, program planning, etc.

$3.00

The Macmillan Company, New York

in a busy week to sheer play. Too often one
comes upon those who can work themselves up to
a high emotional pitch expounding certain theories,
yet never seem to End time to put those ideas into
practical action. It’s like talking about prayer but
never praying; or proclaiming the value of the
church but never finding time or money for its
support. At a national recreation congress, how-
ever, one sees democracy in action through play
that leaves very few spectators on the side lines.
Nor was it merely for the purpose of shop,
though valuable hints were given to those who go
back to teach in these helds. It was also, as one
speaker emphasized, “just for fun.”

One final observation may be in point. There
seemed to be an underlying spiritual note present.
Not only was the church’s place in recreation rec-
ognized by devoting one discussion period to that
held, but of even greater significance was the fact
that speakers and summarizers day after day
were sounding without apology and often quite
unconsciously deep underlying spiritual truths.
This may have been quite the most important con-
tribution of the Congress for it proved that rec-
reation is concerned with the whole man.

512

New McGraw-Hill Books

INTRODUCTION TO
COMMUNITY RECREATION

Edited for the National Recreation Association
by GEORGE D. BUTLER. 537 pages, 6x9. $3.50

Here is a book that fills the need for a comprehensive
volume interpreting community recreation, its sig-
nificance, functions, objectives, program content,
methods of operation, and relationships. Over thirty
colleges and universities have adopted the book for
classroom use. Among them are the following repre-
sentative institutions:

Antioch College

Bowling Green Teachers College
Chico State College
Connecticut College
University of Georgia
University of Illinois
University of Kentucky
University of Maryland
University of Minnesota
Ohio State University
Pennsylvania State College
University of Pittsburgh

St. Cloud Teachers College
Stanford University
Syracuse University

Texas Wesleyan University

“This volume fills a definite need in the field of
recreation, and I am Sure it will be widely used among

the colleges and universities preparing personnel in
this field.” ”

Professor C. L. BROWNELL,
Teachers College, Columbia University.

“This book is everything I expected it to be and
more. It is comprehensive and at the same time clean-
cut, clear in presentation and well organized. It is
admirably adapted for text use. . . . In my opinion it
is by far the most Outstanding publication covering

this general field which has appeared up to the
present time.”

Professor W. C. BATCHELOR,
Ohio State University.

NATURE RECREATION

By WILLIAM GOULD VINAL, Massachusetts State
College. 318 pages, 6x9. $3.00

Written to provide an authoritative discussion of
leadership in the out-of-doors, this pioneering text
presents a readable and eminently practical guide for
group leaders. Important chapters are devoted to
new nature experiences and new adventures expected
by the child leaving the home and the community for
camp, and to the techniques of leadership required
by the need for the conservation of our natural re-
sources and the challenge of an increased leisure.

Send for copies on approval

MCG RAW- H I L L
BOOK COMPANY, Inc.

330 WEST 42ND STREET NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

MUSIC-MAKING IN AMERICAN LIFE

Music-Making in American Life

The Music Educators National Conference. in
a stimulating telegram. extends to the rec-
reation movement its cooperation and support

ONE OF THE SUPREME recreational and cultural
achievements Of our time is the large de-
velopment of music in the schools almost every—
where in our country. The thousands Of high
school choruses, orchestras and bands that sing or
play daily, with remarkable skill and enthusiasm,
music regarded heretofore as only for a specially
blessed few are a distinctively American develop-
ment. NO other country in the world has ever at-
tempted anything like so broad or full a provision
for fine music—making as a normal phase of free,
general education. It is a thrilling and most
promising experiment in democratic education.
Yet its greatest and most joy—giving values are
to be realized in our homes and communities, in
having this music-making integrated in the com—
mon life outside Of the schools, in civic choruses,
orchestras and bands and in the everyday living
in our recreation centers and homes. Thanks to
the cooperation of school music directors with rec—
reation leaders in a number Of cities, there are
already inspiring examples Of the degree to which,
these values can be realized. Surely all who heard;
the Collinwood High School Choir at the National
Recreation Congress in Cleveland will agree that
there could be no more lovable and inspiring ex-I
pression of American life than such music-making.
if it could really be made so by leadership and;
other necessary conditions out in the communities,
Since in many communities much of that lead—
ership must come from the school music directors
themselves, recreation leaders everywhere will be
glad to have the following telegram of assurance
of cooperation from the national organization of.
those directors. Mr. Buttelman, who sent the
telegram, is well known among music educators
throughout the country and he speaks with fullj

authority and infiuence.
A. D. ZANZIG AND T. E. RIVERS
STATLER HOTEL, CLEVELAND, OHIO

I REGRET VERY MUCH THAT PRESSURE OF WORK HAS
MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME To ATTEND THE RECREATION .
CONGRESS AT CLEVELAND. WHILE MUSIC EDUCATORS NA:
TIONAL CONFERENCE IS WELL REPRESENTED BY VARIOUf
PERSONS INCLUDING RUSSELL MORGAN, GLENN GILDERf'
SLEEVE AND OTHERS, I HAD HOPED To HAVE THIS OPPORE ,
TUNITY To SECURE CLOSER CONTACT WITH THE SPLENDD
WORK OF THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION. TH]
ATTITUDE OF OUR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AS ALREADY INDI
CATED WARRANTS MY STATING THAT YOU CAN COUNT OI

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 513

' THE MUSIC EDUCATORS NATIONAL CONFERENCE AND As-
] SOCIATED ORGANIZATIONS FOR COOPERATION AND SUPPORT

IN EVERY CONSISTENT WAY.
C. V. BUTTELMAN, Executive Secretary
Music Educators National Conference

l lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 496)
planned by Charles F. Welch, State Conserva-

tion Department.

Mt. Tom Reservation in the Connecticut Val-
ley, Robert Joyce, naturalist, has just completed
its second successful season of a nature recrea-

‘ tion program. A new trailside museum will be
built before another spring.

Pere Marquette State Park, Illinois, has almost

' completed a geology trailside museum.

. Great Smoky National Park, the wilderness
y park, was dedicated Labor Day. The fifth in size,
l it has 1200 kinds of flowering plants, 129 species
Hof native trees, and twenty shrubs that attain the
;proportions of trees. In the summer months there
are free nature-guided walks to outstanding nature
areas.

"The objects of the Potomac Appalachian Trail
Club are tO open, develop, extend, and maintain
ltrails for walkers, mountain climbers, and nature
.students in wooded and mountainous regions ac-
cessible from Washington, D. C., etc.” For
further details see their Bulletin obtainable from

901 Union Trust Building, Washington, D. C.
15 cents.

Swing Your Partners!
(Continued from page 485)

manual and tie tO an able musician. Select a caller
and then hold the threat Of expulsion over him if
he descends to the nasal twang. Take it easy.
Grandfather’s dances are so active that it is pos—
l-tible at first to overdo.

: You’ll like the sweep and freedom. You’ll be
Able to employ the margin that the old cavortings
allow, not only for individuality but for mistakes.
‘The simple music and the salty idiomatic calls will
make rare gOOd listening. The men, grown men,
will not be repelled by any pretty-pretty'artilices
‘Or suspicions of quaintness. And possibly—quite
lnrobably—if you bring a little imagination to it,
you will meet after a fashion and come to know,
lIWitl'l a friendlier sympathy, that folksy, hearty
democratic grandfather of yours who, while sub-
.l-i'luing a continent, created on the side a marvel-
f )113 pattern for lusty wholesome pleasure.

l

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 1

   

 
    

MAGAZINES

American Library Association Bulletin, September 1, 1940
“This Singing Country” by Alan Lomax

The Camping Magazine, October 1940

“Wanted—A Camp Story-Teller” by Alice Mansur

“Day Camping Comes to Town” by Maude L. Dryden
“Plans for a Block House” ‘by John C. N eu'bauer

“Movie Photography in Camp Promotion” by E.
Harold LeMaistre

The Journal of Heaithhnand Physical Education,

September 1940

“Folk Dancing Goes Progressive” by Madeline Bechel
“Everyone Jumps Rope” by Helen Fahey

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

October 1940
“Trends in Athletic Safety” by Ralph A. Piper

“Archery in the Physical Education Program” by
Mrs. Myrtle K. Miller

“Tell Your Community About It” by Lewis H. Rohr-
baugh and Thomas J. Campbell, Jr. Interpretation
and publicity on recreation and allied service
programs

Journal of Physical Education, September-October 1940

“Aquatics, a Profession for Young Men” by William
Clemenger

Monthly Bulletin: Indiana State Board of Health,

August 1940

“Six-Man Football Safety Suggestions” by Floyd R.
Eastwood

Scholastic Coach, October 1940

“Lights for the Six-Man Football Field” by Howard
E. Moorman

“Individual Volleyball Skills” by Josephine Burke

School Activities, September 1940
“A High School Social Program” by Viola Eblen

PAMPHLETS
Cleveland’s Boystowns edited by workers of the Ohio

Writers’ Program of the Work Projects Administration
J. Noble Richards, Division of Recreation, City Hall,
Cleveland, Ohio

Eternal Heroines

National Council of Catholic Women, 1312 Massa-
chusetts Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. Series
of radio talks.

The Follow-Up Program of the White House Conference
on Children in a Democracy. Supplement to The Child,
July 1940

U. S. Department of Labor, Children’s Bureau,
Washington, D. C.

Healthful Living Through the School Day and in Home
and Community by Nina B. Lamlcin. Healthful Living
Series, Bulletin No. 1

The State Department of Public Health, Santa Fe,
New Mexico, price $.25

The Prevention of Delinquency and the Rehabilitation of
Delinquent Minors

Juvenile Aid Bureau, Police Department, New York

City

514 EXHIBITS AT THE RECREATION CONGRESS

Quiz
Association of American Railroads, Transportation
Building, Washington, D. C. A book containing
more than four hundred questions and answers
about railroads and railroading

Safety Bulletin

T. ‘Earl Tilley, Safety Director, Public Schools, Park
Ridge, Illinois

Swimming, Diving, and Water Polo Rules

Amateur Athletic Union of United States, 233 Broad-
way, New York City, price $.15

Youth, Defense, and the National Welfare

The American Youth Commission of the American
Council on Education, 744 Jackson Place, Wash-

ington, D. C.
ANNUAL REPORTS

Board of Playground Directors, Oakland, 0211.; Play-
ground and Recreation Board, Decatur, Ill. ; Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation, Borough of Cham-
bersburg, Pa.; Department of Agriculture and Con—
servation, Office of Forests and Parks, Providence,
R. 1.

China's Ancient Shadow, Plays in a

Modern Setting

(Continued from page 480)
space they learned to move and dance with their

respective animals, thus projecting the rhythmic
movement of their own bodies into their charac-
ters. Then they worked in pairs, giving each one
an opportunity to discover the special actions of
which their animals were capable. The tiger
snarled and growled at the heron, who stood
calmly by and twisted his long neck; the rooster
pecked at the cat, who crouched down into a cor—
ner, and the Mother Elephant stamped her foot
while she tried to quiet her irrepressible offspring.
By this time the children had discovered how to
make their figures walk, turn around, wag their
tails, and accomplish all of the most necessary
movements and were ready for the next step, re-
hearsing the play on the shadow screen.

They had ample opportunity to practice before
an audience, for any afternoon that Miss Yuen
placed the screen on a table in front of a sunny
window, which gave satisfactory illumination,
there was immediately an eager young audience
ready to be entertained, and following the re-
hearsal the cast of aspiring manipulators was
doubled or trebled. Before the summer was over
the group had given three performances in the
beautiful Recreation Building on Treasure Island
and one for the Chinese community in Chinatown.

These are not the first shadow plays that have
been produced by the San Francisco Recreation
Department, one of Miss Proctor’s groups having

Exhibits at the Recreation Congress

One of the important features of the Cleveland
Recreation Congress was the exhibits, both com-
mercial and educational. The attractiveness of the
displays, the courtesy and helpfulness of the ex-
hibitors, and the interest of the delegates in the
exhibits shown combined to make this section of
the 1940 Congress outstanding in the history of
Recreation Congresses.

made some two years ago similar to the Javanese
type of figure. Other playgrounds are now work—
ing on “Elephant Gay” and other plays with
Chinese style shadow figures.

Thus, while our changing world is trying to
separate the Old and the New China into different
categories and to place walls of thought between
them, we find not only the insuperable wisdom of
her ancient sages but also the simple pattern of
her folk arts rising up to guide us in our modern
search for new ways to attain a fuller and richer
expression of beauty and experience in living.

The Ann Arbor Civic Orchestra

(Continued from page 491)

city’s music groups come together and present
jointly an evening’s musical entertainment, wag
instigated by the orchestra four years ago. The
Hrst program included only the orchestra and twq
choruses, but in the last one some ten groups
participated in addition to representatives of varii
ous church choirs who took part in massed choral
numbers.

In another annual program, “An Evening of
Ballet,” the orchestra combines with the Sylvia
Studio of the Dance in a ballet concert. With the
full forty piece orchestra in the pit and about :5
hundred participants in stage acts, the colorfu?
program of music and dance has an audience ap-I
peal not equalled by any local offering throughouf
the year.

The Civic Orchestra also took a leading part ir
the fostering and authorization of Ann Arbor’:
Music Shell, completed only within the past year'
In the summer of 1939 weekly concerts inter:
spersed with pageants, plays, and playground ac-
tivities were given in the shell under the adminis-
tration of the city’s Department of Recreation anc__'
the Park Department. The orchestra presented
five of these concerts, and some of its personnel
assisted in others. 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The Weekend Companion

By Mary Breen and Arthur Lawson. George W. Stewart,
New York. $2.50.

HERE CAN BE N0 dull week ends if this very compan-
ionable book is at hand! It is not a party book full
of directions for games and activities, though some games
are included. It doesn’t tell you what to do and when to
do it, but it does offer for your enjOyment poems and
stories and songs when you are in the right mood for
them. Some of the material is familiar, much of it is in-
accessible, and a great deal is new. Then there are recipes
I for refreshments you may never have tried all designed
for the week end when you want something to do but
1' don’t want to spend too much time in the kitchen. You’ll
jenjoy this book alone, with one other person to share it

- with you, or in a small or large group.

 

i The Fun Encyclopedia

By E. O. Harbin. Cokesbury Press, Nashville, Ten-
l nessee. $2.75.

I
1

eighty, with over 2,000 good-time suggestions, will be
found in this book of 1,000 pages. Games of all types,
party plans, fun out of doors, and children’s play make
,up the contents of this very comprehensive volume on
social recreation. The many drawings, charts, and dia—
jgrams which have been introduced show how games are
played, how materials and equipment are made, and how
playing fields are laid out. Complete indices, both topical
land alphabetical, make it possible to find source material
'readily and speedily.

 

Games of Low Organization

'By Garson Herman. Available from author, 1.555 Union-
port Road, Bronx, New York. $.50 plus .10 postage.

ETHERE ARE A LARGE number of games of low organiza-
‘ tion and some novelty relays in this mimeographed
lSZ-page 'bulletin compiled by Garson Herman. He has

3 given not only directions for playing the games but hints
lfor leadership.

l
Pottery—Its Craftsmanship

! and Its Appreciation
By Edmund deForest Curtis. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $2.00.
THIS BOOK IS DESIGNED both for the serious student of
ceramics, interested in historical trends and artistic
f merit and appreciation, and the craftsman eager to per—
hfect methods, formulas, and techniques. The book dis-
i cusses the different kinds of clay and methods of prepara-
jtion for various purposes, and gives the latest techniques
‘for working with clay either as a hobby or professionally.
llThere are formulas for making various glazes and com-
‘ plete instructions for making earthenware, stoneware,
’llporcelain, and other types of clay products.

'1

l

l.‘ NTER'I‘AINMENT FOR GROUPS of all ages from eight to .

Modern Skating

By Frederic Lewis. The Reilly and Lee Company, Chi-
cago. $1.25.

MR. LEWIS, former amateur figure skating champion
of the United States, gives us in this little book a
simplified method for learning the techniques of plain ice
skating, figure, and speed skating. Fundamentals are in-
cluded. To make his explanations more meaningful, Mr.

Lewis has included more than fifty photographic illus—
trations.

Enjoy Leisure Time

New York Reference Service, 67 West 68th Street, New
York. $.20.

THIS IS A GUIDE to inexpensive and free published in-

formation on more than sixty spare-time activities and
contains a listing of material on hobbies of various kinds
which do not cost more than 50 cents. The subjects on
which source material is given cover a wide range from
making things with beads to building model railways.
The New York Reference Service also offers a personal-
ized service, available on a subscription basis, of indi-
vidual monthly or semi-monthly reports and Spot bul-
letins, keeping each subscriber posted on new develop-
ments, new books, current magazine articles, and pamph-
lets in his own particular field of interest.

Practical Wood-Carving Projects

By Enid Bell. Harper and Brothers, New York. $2.00.

FTER DISCUSSING the essentials of equipment and their
A care, kinds of woods and their best uses, and the
elements of suitable design, the author sets the hobbyist
to work on actual projects, giving detailed directions on
how to do them as he proceeds. The articles described
range from simple, inexpensive salad spoon and fork to
radio cabinets. Twenty-two specific projects are described
step by step.

More Indoor and Community Games
By Sid G. Hedges. Chemical Publishing Company, 148
Lafayette Street, New York. $1.50.
THE AUTHOR OF Indoor and Communty Games there de—
scribes nearly 400 more games under the following
classifications: Ice Breaker and Partnering Games; Mov-
ing-About Games; Boisterous Games; Spectator Games;
Brain-Test Games; Musical Games; Sitting-Still Games;
Team Games; Pencil and Paper Games; Surprise and

Mystery Games; Strength and Agility Games; Race
Games; Forfeits.

The Book of Modern Puzzles

By Gerald Lynton Kaufman. Simon and Schuster, New
York. $2.00.

AGIC AND MYSTERY have been Mr. Kaufman’s hobby

for years, and they are reflected in his book which
contains word puzzles of all sizes and shapes, design and

515

516 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

pattern problems, card puzzles, “Jabberwocky” brain
teasers, and three dimensional and muscular problems.
An additional section tests the reader’s ability to apply
general knowledge to peculiar situations, and to unscram-
ble complex relationships. The fact that Mr.’ Kaufman
is an architect explains the clearness and excellence of
the diagrams which are used profusely throughout the
book.

The Man Who Gave Us Christmas.

By Winifred Kirkland. The Womans Press, New
York. $.50.

“Stories as beautiful as that of Christmas,” says the
author, “do not just happen—they have a source; they
come from somewhere and from someone.” Miss Kirk-
land in her booklet ascribes the Christmas story to Luke,
the wayside doctor who found and preserved the birth
story, and it is of Luke and the part he plays in the life
of Christ that she writes 'With sympathy and under-
standing.

Model Airplane Contests—An Air
Youth Guide with Official Rules.

Published for Air Youth of America. D. Appleton-
Century Company, New York. $1.25.

Here is an exceedingly practical book giving complete
information on how to plan and conduct all types of model
airplane contests ranging from informal games and demon—
strations for young novices to formal contests for experi-
enced fiyers conducted under national rules. The cost of
running contests, the selection of the site, officials and
their duties, contest equipment and materials for both
indoor and outdoor Hying contests, novelty contests and
demonstrations, and rules governing formal contests are
all discussed. In assembling this data the Air Youth of
America has made a splendid contribution to air-minded

youth and their leaders.

How to Design Greeting Cards.

By Elizabeth and Curtiss Sprague. Bridgman Pub-
lishers, Pelham, New York. $1.00.

The authors have given us a very complete treatise on
the subject of the designing of greeting cards, and the
result is a delightfully illustrated primer in the rudi-
ments of design, composition, lettering, and arrangement.

Betcha Can’t Do It!

By Alexander Van Rensselaer. D. Appleton-Century
Company, New York. $1.50.

More than a hundred stunts and practical jokes are to
be found in this book. They are chiefly of two kinds—-
those that require agility and a sense of balance, and
those that are based on deception. Only common articles
found in any home are needed for equipment. There are
stunts with coins, brooms, cord and rope, paper, chairs,
bottles and corks, handkerchiefs, match boxes and cards,
and there are miscellaneous stunts and dinner stunts—all
of them lots of fun!

The Administration of Public Recreation.

By George Hjelte. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $3.00.

This is a book for administrators of public recreation
and, as Mr. Hjelte himself points out, it is limited to the
consideration of administration from the standpoint of
departmental problems. It is also designed to serve as a
textbook on the administration of public recreation for
use in the professional preparation of recreation workers
and executives.

Mr. Hjelte has treated his subject matter in three main
hearings: Administrative Organization and Relationships
of Recreation; Administration of a Recreation Depart-

. ment; and Related Problems of Recreation Administra-

tion. Particularly in the discussion of subjects dealing
with the internal organization of a recreation depart-
ment—questions of accounting and financial procedures
budget making, reports and records, maintenance and
construction—45 there most effective evidence of Mr
Hjelte’s long experience as an administrator and of his
ability to analyze and clarify problems arising in situaé
tions involving important administrative matters. The
minimum requirements for play space suggested in the'
chapter on “City Planning for Recreation” are indeec‘
minimum—the majority of American cities have gone fai
beyond the standards presented, both for playground and
total park and recreation areas. A

The entire recreation movement will the indebted to Mr.
Hjelte for making available in so clear and effective a
manner his experience in dealing with all the varioui
factors which directly affect the successful conduct of 2'
recreation department.

Let’s Celebrate Christmas.

By Horace J. Gardner. A.- S. Barnes and Company
New York. $2.50. 7

Mr. Gardner has given us in this volume a collectioi
of Christmas material well worth preserving in one’i
library. There are planned parties, games for young ant
old, refreshment ideas, decorations, carols and plays'
Christmas legends and customs, poetry and stories. Witl ',
the ideas and information presented here you will nevei'
be at a loss for material for Christmas celebrations.

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MR5. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, l‘a.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
-MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERwORTH, Moline, lll.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBBE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. T., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City. lml.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. U. '
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich. Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass. '

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAnEs W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURc, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

—‘.._.-..._ _ ,1

