You Remember

OU remember the watercress you found yourself by the stream, the

chestnuts, hickory nuts, walnuts, butternuts, the tiny beechnuts you
gathered in the fall after the frosts, the sassafras root, the blueberries, the
elderberries, the wild gooseberries with their thorns.

You remember the smells—in the woods, in the swamps, in the pasture,
by the seashore, where the wild roses grew, or the little island just thick
with violets, the smell of the clam bake, the smell of the woods fire, the
smell of the bayberry you ground up in your hands.

You remember the nice feel of the road dust on your bare feet, the
good old “sqush” of the mud between your toes, wading in the creek at
recess, catching tadpoles to be watched as they grew up, turning over stones
to find what lived underneath, wading out into the ocean, the first joy of

swimming in the ocean, of giving yourself entirely to the water.

You remember—if you lived away from the mountains—the first climbs,
the delight of finding the springs you could drink from, coming on the deer,
watching them bound away from you, getting above the timber line, above
the clouds, and when the sky cleared, looking for miles and miles.

You remember always the birds, the trees you climbed as a boy to
study their nests, the pheasants flying up, perhaps the Wild turkeys, the
dozen or so little Bob White following their mother on the ground, one
behind the other, yet never walking in a straight line, the tiny humming

birds always coming to the same place by the side of the porch.

You remember many sounds—the sound of the sea when the ocean
is calm, the sound of the sea in the winter storms on a rocky coast, the
lapping of the lake water at your camp as you wake in the morning, the
sound of the wind in the trees, the cry of the loon on the lake, the sound
of the rushing mountain stream, the roar of the great falls, the sounds of

myriads of insects, the sound of the “jug-ger-rum.”

You remember the sight of the first flowers, the wheat just coming out
of the ground, when the trees leaf out in the spring, when the leaves have
their best‘ color in the fall, when the first snow storm comes, certain sunsets
over the ocean or over the lakes that were unbelievable.

You like now to remember that much of our land and water and its
sights and sounds and beauty withal belong to all the pe0ple—deeded to

them forever and forever.
.Vlurray College  W (3‘ka

Jacksonville, Illinois '
8 o & MK

 

.PRIL, l940 054/ 3'4"" M'-

:ssfon

m
m
0
C
k
r
a
P.
L
mu.
m
C
r"
P.
5
en
E
V.
S
P.
4...
r
Mn
0
C

 

'Nature Experiences tor All 

S SUMMER approaches,
millions of Americans
will plan their vacations

to the mountains and sea-
shores. Many are fugitives
from ofhces, factories, kit-
chens, and schools. Some
will hike, fish, swim, or en-
gage in the many other vig-
orous outdoor pursuits; some will read, botanize,
or participate in other less strenuous activities;
some will merely wish to lie in the sun, or enjoy
the beauty of countryside from the hammock or
the car window.

But not only during vacations are there possi-
bilities for enjoying nature. Throughout the year
in many places and in many forms, are being of-
fered through organized means, pleasing experi—
ences that «bring man into closer contact with the
natural physical world and help him enjoy and
understand that world.

As old as man himself are the satisfactions he
derives from his experiences with nature. Yet
modern commercial and industrial life has denied
him the opportunity to satisfy some of his urges
to live close to the earth—to plant, to harvest, to
explore, to hunt, to fish, to enjoy the songs of
birds and the beauty of trees.

In a hundred years America has changed from
a land of a few cities, many small towns, and a

large rural population to a country in which almost.

sixty per cent of our pe0p1e live in cities of 2,500
population or more. As our cities have increased
in size, the opportunities for outing experiences
have decreased in number. Today, therefore, to
reestablish man’s contact with his natural envir-
onment, it has become necessary for opportunities
to be offered by society through its governmental
and private agencies.

The reasons for the provid-
ing of nature experiences are
many and varied. The edu-
cator sees, in offering such
experiences, that they are a
key to the understanding of
the rules of the universe,
basic to life itself. To the
conservationist, learning
about nature has value in

As old as man himself are the
satisfactions he derives from
his experiences with nature

By REYNOLD E. CARLSON
National Recreation Association

Readers of Recreation will recall that our
request for material for a special issue of the
magazine-on Co-Recreation met with such
enthusiastic response that it was necessary
to devote two issues to the subject and to
publish some additional articles in a later
number. Our experience with regard to a
'special issue on Nature Recreation is prov-
ing similar. So many interesting articles
have been received that it will be necessary
to publish a number of them at a later date.

that it holds at least one of
the keys for the conserving
of the resources that have
been so thoughtlessly ex—
ploited by past generations.
To children and adults, the
reason for participating in
nature experiences lies in the
resulting increased zest in
_ living and new appreciations of the beauty to be
found in yard, park, or countryside. '

America has gone far to preserve or provide
the places for the enjoyment of nature. Our Na-
tional Park Service has set aside some of the
finest examples of scenic beauty for the enjoy-
ment of all the people. The U. S. Forest Service
has made its great forest areas available for the
recreation of millions. Our states have followed
these examples with their parks, forests, and re-
serves. Counties and cities have provided many
places where natural beauty may be found and
enjoyed. New parks and preserves are being es-
tablished continually, and few people there are in
America who do not have, somewhere near at
hand, one of these areas.

But along with the acquisition and the develop-
ment of places for outdoor recreation, there has
been a definite need also to help people under-
stand and appreciate what these places mean. It
is often discouraging to find individuals without
the background to appreciate and without any
conception of the possibilities for recreation that
are offered in these areas. It is to the end that
more people may deve10p the understanding nec-
essary for the appreciation of these areas and of
the whole physical world around them that efforts
are being made in so many quarters to develop
programs that will provide concrete nature experi-
ences. This does not mean
that a knowledge of botany
is necessary to enjoy the
beauty of a park, or a course
in ornithology to appreciate
the beauty of bird song;
but it does mean that for
many, at least, familiarity,
with their surroundings is
necessary to the highest en—

joyment of the world in

3

4 NATURE EXPERIENCES FOR ALL

 

The national parks and forests be-
long ‘l'o all. In order that more in-
dividuals may have an appreciation
of their aesthetic and recreational
values. many efforts are being made
to promote programs which will pro-
vide concrete nature experiences.

which they live. A brief sum—
mary of the programs will in-
dicate the variety and extent to
which efforts. are now being
made to provide nature experi-
ences through government and
private organizations.

For many years our American schools, both
public and private, have included as a part of
their curriculum courses in elementary science
and nature. Much of the material, particularly in
the elementary and junior high school levels, has
had as one of its objectives the development of
an appreciation of the physical world in which we
live. In many cases students have been made
aware of the possibilities of nature hobbies. Many
schools have tried to provide real experiences with
nature rather than mere book learning. During
recent years there has been a real etfort to pro-
vide training for teachers through summer courses
at camps that give teachers themselves some of
the first-hand outdoor experiences so much needed
to make nature courses vital to children.

Museums, zoos, botanical gardens, and other
scientific institutions are all organized to aid in
the appreciation of nature. During recent years
there has been a definite trend toward the de—
velopment of educational programs for young and
old in these institutions. Classes are organized,
displays made meaningful through interpretation
in language that the general public can under-
stand, publications issued, hobby clubs sponsored,

Photo by R. E. Carlson

field trips and other outings con-
ducted. The tremendous growth
of the children’s museum idea
during the last few years is an-
other indication of the possibili-
ties of these organizations to
contribute much to the enjoy—
ment of our physical world.

Organized camps, public and private, are ef-
forts to provide outing experiences for their mem—
bers. In many cases they have well-developed
nature programs, most camp leaders recognizing
that these are the most logical types of activities
for children in the outdoor setting in which or-
ganized camps are located.

From coast to coast are hundreds of hiking
clubs, ranging from groups of eight or ten people
to the large regional organizations such as the
Appalachian Trail Conference of the east, or the
Sierra Club of the west. Many of these large or-
ganizations have adopted some region of America
as their particular province and have expended
their efforts to keep regions in a primitive condi-
tion, to provide and maintain trails, to organize
outings for their members as well as to educate
their own groups and the country at large on the
values and joys of hiking. Many of these hiking
organizations, large and small, are also interested
in natural history. They publish pamphlets on the
natural history of their own province. Their

(Continued on page 62)

 

Dr. John H. Finley

JOHN HUSTON FINLEY lived himself and very much wanted all others to live. For him every hour
of life was adventure, adventure of the spirit, adventure in' imagination.

Warmly human himself, he imparted warmth and depth and richness of life to those about him.
No one 'exceeded 'him in gifts of friendship. The world became a more friendly place when he came into
the room.

\

John H. Finley belonged to the National Recreation Association before it was formed. The purpose
to which it was devoted was his purpose—that children might have their rightful heritage of play, that

all might have a permanently satisfying use of leisure.

Dr. Finley liked to read of the new Jerusalem and of the children playing in the streets thereof.
But, he asked, why not give children in our cities a real chance to play here and now. If the heaven of
men's dreams is to have music and dancing and poetry—why not let joy express itself now. He wanted
even the blind to see and feel the beauty of the world.

From 1913 to 1940 a member of the Board of Directors, from 1922 to 1937 Firsr Vice-Presi-
' dent, from 1937 President, Dr. Finley gave himself wholeheartedly to the movement that was so much a
part of his own life. He spoke for it, presided with rare charm at the Recreation Congresses, raised money
for the Association, placed his presrige and his great influence back of the entire recreation movement.
There was no other quite like him. NOt soon. shall we see his equal. We record with deep gratitude a
little of what his life and work meant to the National Recreation Association and to us personally. We
shall ever think of him with affection.

From the Minutes of the Board of Directors of the
National Recreation Association, March 13, 1940

 

"Here Comes the Traveling Museum"

“ Em: COMES the traveling
museum” were happy
words to the ears of

most of our children, and of

adults as well, on all of our
thirty-two Reading playgrounds. And the mu-
seum was only one of the many features of our
nature lore program during the past summer.
When planning the program for the 1939 sea-
son it was decided to emphasize natural history——

“nature lore” to the children. At that time it was

a question as to how some of the playgrounds

would react to this type of instruction. Hereto-

fore, nature lore had been just another one of
those activities which the individual leaders on
each playground were to teach their children. If
the leader were interested or knew a little some-
thing about the subject, he would discuss it with
the children. If, however, he knew nothing about
snakes, birds, insects, or anything else that might
be of interest to the children, nature lore was
never mentioned from the beginning to the end
of the season.

In order to make sure that this would not occur
last year, a nature specialist or supervisor of
nature lore was employed, and it became my duty

to visit each playground several times during the
season.

6

By EARL LORAH
Supervisor of Nature Lore
Department of Public Recreation
Reading, Pennsylvania

Saturday Hikes

The first thing to be done
was to arrange a schedule so
that the various leaders would
know exactly when the travel-
ing museum was to pay a visit and could pass this
information on to the rest of the playground by
means of an attractive notice on their bulletin
boards. According to our schedule I was to visit
four playgrounds live days a week, allowing Sate
urday for all-day hikes. The smaller playgrounds
were visited in the morning while the larger ones
received afternoon visits. This meant that each
playground was visited about every ten days. An
example of a typical day’s schedule would be:

A. M. 9:45-10 :45 Amanda Stout
11:00-12 :00 10th and Chestnut
P. M. 2:00-3:15 Baer Park
3:30-5:00 Glen‘side
We discovered from this schedule that Satur-
day was not the best day to hold our hikes, for
there were too many other things going on. Each
week these hikes were held in different localities,
thus making it more convenient for playground
attendants within a certain district. However, all
thirty-two playgrounds were invited every week.
The hikes began at 9:00 A. M. and ended any-

(Contimted on page 58)

ll 1‘ l - in”; \s“FL’-J'r
l t.

' ,a  1 .
no.1". .' i... .5, 91am)“ ,—

Perspective in National Park Affairs

HEN AT THAT Yellow-
wStone Campfire of 1870,

Cornelius Hedges
opined, “This wonderland
should be preserved as a pub-
lic pleasuring ground,” he
probably sensed something of
the cultural usefulness of those
amazing values with which na-
ture endows the upper Yellowstone country. His
historic recommendation opened the campaign
which resulted in, the creation of our first national
park and, incidentally, was the beginning of a
movement which has spread to most of the civi-
lized world.
' Probably the wonders of the Yellowstone were
not regarded by Mr. Hedges and his contempora-
ries as especially representative of a national ex-
pression ; on the contrary, the geyser activity and
the weird beauties of the Grand Canyon of the
Yellowstone struck those Montana pioneers as
being absolutely foreign to anything in their previ-
ous experience. It was, perhaps, this curious and
spectacular character, principally in the sense of
its freakishness rather than for its full cultural
significance, that prompted the members of the
\Vashburn-Langford-Doane partyand their friends
to work with such determination to create of the
area a national reservation to which rich and poor
alike should have access.

Twenty years later, when Yosemite, Sequoia,
and General Grant were made national parks, the
trend toward public recognition of “distinctive”
American scenes was well established; and through
the succeeding decades “superlative” and “unique”
were regarded as necessary adjectives in legisla—
tion enacted in creating Mount Rainier, Crater
Lake, Mesa Verde, Glacier, Rocky Mountain, and
some others of the earlier national parks.

To most of the pioneer workers who directed
their energies to the creation of national parks,
and to the great majority of national park visitors
who entered the first parks, the unusual scenic
qualities of the reservations were sufficient unto
themselves. Few people thought of the areas as
being expressive of the American message, and
very few indeed demanded scientific explanation
of the natural features that had been preserved.

By CARL P. RUSSELL.

Mr. Russell, who is Supervisor of Re-
search and Information. National Park
Service, has given us in this article
‘a most illuminating exposition of the
trends in the Service' and ot obiec-
tives and methodsI particularly as they
relate to education and interpretation.

Gradually a changed attitude
of the public mind came about,
and visitor interest was no
longer satisfied by the knowl-
edge that the Upper Yosemite
Fall is the highest free leaping
waterfall in the world, or that
Mount Rai‘nier’s glaciers con—
stitute the largest accessible
single peak glacier system in the United States
proper. Insistent questions were raised concern-
ing the meaning of park phenomena, and the Na-
tional Park Service busied itself in establishing.
facts and devising means of making information
available. I

Educational Values Are Realized

Thus it became apparent that an important edu-
cational aspect was to be found in the public en-
joyment of the national parks; that scenic- and
scientific appreciation, historical mindedness and
national patriotism might be intensified through
their use. A definite educational program was
established within the formal set-up of the Ser-
vice. Concurrently with the growth of the pro-
gram of research and interpretation, there was
developing both within the National Park Service
and among national parks enthusiasts outside of
the Service, a new concept of the scope of na—
tional park opportunities.

Twenty years ago the American Civic Associa-
tion in its Park Primer defined a national park as
“an area, usually of some magnitude, distinguished
by scenic, scientific, historic or archeological at-
tractions and natural wonders and beauties which
are distinctly national in importance and interest,
selected as eminent examples of scenic, scientific,
or historic America, and preserved with charac-
teristic natural scenery, wildlife and historic or
archeological heritage, in an unimpaired state, as
a part of a national park system for the use and
enjoyment of this and future generations.”

Soon after this definition was published, the
Camp Fire Club of America enlisted the interest
of all conservation groups in analyzing the prin-
ciples and methods governing the creation and
administration of national parks. In 1929 the
Camp Fire Club published “standards” in this

7

8 PERSPECTIVE IN NATIONAL PARK AFFAIRS

connection which were endorsed by various asso-
ciations and recognized in principle by the Na-
tional Park Service. These national park stand—
ards stressed the idea that scientihc, educational,
and inspirational values should dictate the major
uses of the areas.

In 1930 a significant acquisition was made when
Colonial National Historical Park and George
\Vashington Birthplace National Monument were
established. This was the occasion for the plan-
ning of a serious program of historic conserva-
tion. In 1931 a staff of historians was employed,
and the Service entered into the specialized work
of administering historic areas. The War Depart-
ment transferred hfty-nine historic areas to the
National Park Service in 1933, and passage of the
Historic Sites Act of 1935 made the Service re-
sponsible for a nation—wide movement to conserve
all important historic and archeologic sites.

In 1937 ideas on the future national park sys-
tem had crystallized further. and the Service gave
definition to its policy on acquisition of new areas.
In the Congressional Record—Appendix of Janu-
ary 24, 1938, pp. .1375-76—Congressman J. W.
Robinson of Utah published this policy as con-
tained in an address by Director Cammerer. Here
the Service declares its intention to secure for
public use those areas that are of more value na—
tionally for recreation and inspiration than for
any other use, to acquire nationally important pre-
historic and historic sites, outstanding stretches
of the ocean beaches, the most instructive geologi-
cal phenomena, the finest representative examples
of native plant and animal associations, and a sys-
tem of nationally important scenic and historic
parkways. In other words, the Service committed
itself to a policy of preserving, and presenting by
striking examples, the comprehensive and varied
story of earth forces and the progress of civiliza-
tion in this country.

The Movement Grows

From the standpoint of scope, the national park
stories by areas now connect
and constitute expression of
much that is esentially Ameri—
can. Because the program is
not limited to “primeval”
areas, it does represent an
expansion of the national
park idea of 1870. For thirty
years after the creation of
Yellowstone National Park,
the conception (if any) of a

"In its attempts to meet its opportun—
ities. the National Park Service has pro-
vided a mechanism whereby an appeal-
ing and understandable picture of things of the protests originated
American can be placed before a repre-
sentative cross section of the American
population. Probabl

we are not placing
too high an appraisa

upon thevalueofthis
Service when we refer to it as 'one of the
most potent agencies in field education
that has been conceived by any nation.’ "

national park system was one in which “incompa-
rable scenic grandeur” constituted the controlling
qualihcation.

National monuments characterized by values
other than scenic grandeur first came into the
picture in 1906, when An Act for the Preservation
of American Antiquities authorized the President
of the United States to declare by public procla—
mation signihcant areas situated upon lands owned
by the government to be national reservations.
Caves, canyons, natural bridges, fossil deposits,
volcanic manifestations, samples of desert flora, a
forest of redwoods, battlefields and other historic
sites, and variety of archeological treasures were
among the first units that had been collected under
the Antiquities Act when the National Park Ser-
vice was established in 1916.

This collection continued to grow during the
early years of organized effort of the National
Park Service under Stephen T. Mather. Gradu-
ally it became apparent to all workers in the field
of national parks activity that a wealth of recre-
ational and inspirational values existed in many
sections of the country and that the process of
acquiring them should be selective rather than col-
lective. The national park yardstick of the pio-
neers could no longer be used in measuring the
several new classes of areas which the public
mind had created.

Questions Arise

\Vith that realization came some questions and
protests. Overlooking the fact that thirty-four
miscellaneous areas, many of historic and pre-
historic significance, had already been brought into
the system at the time that the National Park Ser-
vice was formed, some conscientious friends of
the parks offered formal objections and organized
campaigns designed to change the course of events.
They argued: “Keep national parks always a sys-
tem of natural masterpieces; admit to the system
no new park or addition that will depreciate its
meaning."

The question of meaning
can be found behind nearly
all of the arguments. Some

with energetic workers who
had already contributed much
toward the founding of the
national park system. In most
cases, the objectors did not
show a good sense of direc-

PERSPECTIVE IN NATIONAL PARK AFFAIRS 9

 

Courtesy U. 5. Forest Service

The park visitor's eyes are opened to some
of the meanings of the trailside when ran-
ger-naturalists escort parties to the sig—

tion in debating their ques—
tlons. . . .

One of the notable or- mace.“ eXh'bm
ganizations that opposed the
expanding national park programs observed in
1933 that Mesa Verde National Park is a “casual
creation of local pride established before a na-
tional consciousness of the great system (of
national parks) crystallized.” In passing such
judgment on this, one of the Nation’s greatest
archeological treasures, the protesting organiza-
tion indicates that it is willing to stop with scenic
areas in shaping a national parks program. It is,
I think, an opinion that limits the “meaning” of
national parks to very restricted sociological
bounds.

Most conservationists now agree that it should
be the purpose of the Nation to select and pre-
serve, while it is still possible to get them, those
areas of national significance which give expres-
sion to all things American. Great archeological
relics are not less distinctly national in importance
and interest than are the granite cliffs of Yosemite
or the abysmal depths of the Grand Canyon of
the Colorado.

A review of the debates on the policy affecting
the scope of the National Park Service program

of the out of doors.

indicates that most of the
differences of opinion grew
out of differences in views
as to what constitutes a na-
tional parks objective. As a result of much mull—
ing over of ideas and definite public action in the
matter, the government now embraces the oppor-
tunity to preserve and interpret the broad Ameri-
can story in all of its varied aspects. The ex-
panded program may well be accepted as the ideal
of Stephen Mather, who visualized a broad park
concept “to provide a new form of land use,
humanly satisfying, economically justifiable, and
with far-reaching social implications.”

Interpretative Work Is Initiated

Among the social implications there looms that
undertaking in unique educational methods which
for twenty years has contributed to the public en-
joyment and understanding of the distinctive
features of National Park Service areas. In 1920
interpretative work was started in Yosemite, Yel-
lowstone, and Mesa Verde. Guided trips, lectures,
and a special exhibits service found immediate
response from park visitors, and the work spread
in a year or two to include Glacier National Park,
Grand Canyon, Mount Rainier, Rocky Mountain,

10 PERSPECTIVE IN NATIONAL PARK AFFAIRS

Zion and Sequoia National Parks. By 1923 a
central ofiice was established in Berkeley, Cali-
fomia, from which to direct the new program,
and in 1924 a fairly general interest of educators
throughout the country was focused upon the new
techniques which were demonstrating their effec-
tiveness in promoting the cause of conservation.
The American Association of Museums recog—

nized the possibilities of applying museum.

methods in interpreting the vast story told by the
natural and historic exhibits in the park areas. In
1924 the Association organized to investigate ways
and means of establishing an adequate museum
program within the National Park Service. With
funds provided by the Laura Spelman Rockefel—
ler Memorial, some of the first adequate and per-
manent museums in national parks were built in
1925-33 under the guidance of the American As-
sociation of Museums.

This initial work in museum planning and con-
struction laid the foundation for the existing
museum program which with
the support of government
funds now includes central
museums, focal point muse-
ums, historic house museums,
restorations, trailside exhibits,
and exhibits in place in most
of the 155 areas of the Fed-
eral park system. Because cen-
tral museums in the national parks provide offices,
laboratories, and libraries for the educational per-
sonnel, and contact stations for park visitors, the
museum program has become the center of the
interpretative work in the parks.

In order that the growing program of research
and interpretation might be well balanced in its
development, the Secretary of the Interior in 1928
appointed a committee of nationally known edu-
cators to study its possibilities and define its
policy. Acting upon the recommendations of this
committee, the National Park Service on July I,
1930, established a Branch of Research and Edu-
cation, now called the Branch of Research and
Information, to coordinate the various phases of
research and interpretative work. In reviewing
objectives and policy of the Branch we find this
significant recommendation made in 1929 by the
Committee On Educational Problems:

Any plan involving assistance to the visitor must in-
clude an examination of the attitude of the park visitor
to what is presented. We are not concerned merely with
the fact that many things may be large or wide or deep

"The purpose of educational work in
parks is to interpret park phenomena
and history and engender a desire in
the visitor to think. read' and talk
about the park offeringsl both while
he is in the park and after he has the
returned to his work-a-day routine."

or highly colored or have an interesting evolutionary
development. From the point of view of the visitor, we
are interested in their meaning to him in terms of his
most fundamental thinking. and their significance in rela—

tion to his everyday life. a

.Following this thought, the National Park Ser-
vice in all of its public contact work attempted to
use its opportunities to give emphasis to the
human value of the natural exhibits of the parks,
an emphasis that strives to advance understanding
and. appreciation of the natural phenomena and
human history of the Service areas. Nearly five
million citizens availed themselves of the lectures,
guided trips, and museum services of the national
parks during the twelve months just passed. It
becomes more evident each year that in this Ser-
vice is one of the very potent forces now working ,
in the cause of conservation.

From the inception of the idea of an interpreta-
tive program, 'it was obvious to all workers that

naturalists and historians engaged in planning and

conducting the work must be provided with or-
ganized information relating to
the features that they were to
interpret. A research program
was organized. C00peration on
special problems was obtained
from the National Museum,
Biological Survey, the
Geological Survey, the Bureau
of Fisheries, and from many
universities and museums.

Research Specialists Are Enlisted

In addition to investigations conducted by out-
side agencies, the Service established small staffs
of research specialists in forestry, wildlife, ge-
ology, history, archeology, and the general field
of museum work. The attitude of the Service
toward its research program is reflected in the
recommendation made by national park superin-
tendents in conference at Santa Fe, New Mexico,
October, 1939:

The interpretation of natural and human history in
national park areas is recognized as a primary objective.
The basis of such interpretation should be organized
research. A sense of balance must exist in arranging
research and interpretative functions, and the role of
research, generally, in the National Park Service pro-
gram should be re—examined. National Park Service
problems are national in scope relating to physical, bio-
logical, and human values inherent in some of the most
perishable of Federal possessions. They pertain to men-
tal health, constructive living, social traditions, enjoy-
ment of life, and other basic matters bearing on the

PERSPECTIVE IN NATIONAL PARK AFFAIRS 11

health, education. recreation and psychology of Ameri—
ca’s population. The National Park Service is most
advantageously situated to develop a national perspective
in ethnology, history, wildlife, and aesthetic appreciation
of scenery.

Six geologists, eight wildlife technicians, (Bio—
logical Survey), and about two hundred museum
workers are now employed. Thirty-four park
naturalists 'and assistants are located in national
parks and national monuments. During the season
of heavy tourist travel the naturalist staff is en-
larged by the employment of temporary ranger
naturalists, about one hundred of whom are ap—
pointed each summer. These men appearing on
lecture platforms, behind information desks, or
leading groups organized to hike into the forests
or to the high country above timber line interpret
the stories told by the natural exhibits of the out
of doors.

Perhaps the park visitor exposed to this kind of
teaching does not retain all of the information
delivered by the naturalist, but his eyes are opened
to some of the meanings of the trailside and he
has had a glimpse of the great natural processes
behind the national parks story. Simplicity in
translating the story is a constant aim. A Har-
vard geologist once remarked while examining the
geo—chemistry exhibits in the Norris Museum,
Yellowstone, that the interpretations were “naive.”
His evaluation was accepted as complimentary.
Except for self-conscious intellectuals, few people
object to simplicity in science.

A great problem is to find
those scientists who have the
ability to present science in sim-
ple graphic manner. The ranger
naturalist is selected on the basis
of his scholarship, but in his work
With park visitors he must dis-
tinguish between the public mind
and the scientific mind. His pre-
sentation of a story must be made
with clarity and force, but the .
technical expressions of the
scholar, scientist or historian are
reserved for display before pro-
fessionals and are not inserted
into the popular interpretations
offered park visitors.

The Merced Lake High Sierra .
Camp, Yosemite National Park 7 ' .

The Pageant of American History

Within the 155 areas now reserved by the N a-
tional Park Service, or in those proposed for ac-
quisition, the pageant of American history unreels
like a lasting cinema. Archeology and ethnology
find some representation, especially in the areas of
the southwest, where the exhibits run the gamut
from the dwellings of a people who lived a thou-
sand years ago to the camps and pueblos of the
modern Indian. In the field of geology, the na-

_tional parks and monuments constitute a natural

textbook. The pages of that book are widely
separated and scattered, but the automobile and
good roads overcome the difficulties of distance.
Many colleges and universities take geology
classes to these out-door laboratories. The exist-
ing Federal areas do not constitute as fine and
complete a series of geological exhibits as might
be desired. The story of earth forces in the United
States must still be defined and a survey com-
pleted to locate more of the significant areas. Then
selection should be made to complete a coherent
system of parks and monuments which will exem—
plify the major themes of American geology. Just
as sound conclusions can be drawn as to the rela-
tive values of geological areas after a comprehen-
sive survey has been made, so should a broad

review of the ecology of the country precede the
selection of biological areas. The park system is

(Continued on page 60)

 

 

q ., .-.-.‘ z. -

VERY IMPORTANT phase of our Tanager Lodge
A nature program preceded by many months
the first opening of camp. During the years
when we were seeking a camp site, many an other-
wise attractive spot was passed by because it did
not provide the rich, stimulating environment that
we desired. Finally a point on the western shore
of one of our Adirondack lakes was selected. This
point, eXcept for an open, grassy acre near its tip,
was covered with an attractive growth of canoe
birches, pines, spruces, balsam hrs and red maples.
Around the bays on either side were tracks of
deer, fox, raccoon, mink and muskrat, “while far-
ther back were black ash for packbaskets and
enough tipi poles to supply the Six Nations.
Mosses and wild ilowers, among them several
orchids, carpeted the forest iloor, and the rocky
cliffs across the bay had received special mention
in the geological report of the region. Speckled,
brown, rainbow and lake trout as well as a half
dozen other species of lish inhabited the lake. A
mile away near the inlet was a fascinating marsh
alive with birds, frogs and other wild life. Across
the lake, mountains rose to an elevation of almost
four thousand feet, while a few miles to the north
the ridges subsided into a rich, agricultural pla-

teau that fell away rapidly to the St. Lawrence
Valley.

Environmental Influences

The tremendous importance
of this natural environment
on the lives of our campers
during the following years is
impossible to evaluate. Let us
note briefly, however, a half

12

'.'r
.v‘.

r 
Jr
a o , n
r .. .m. '-:;.--a~:q - ‘2?

Photo and copyright by Fay Welch

Mr. Welch. who gives us this interest-
ing description of a nature program at
camp. is Director ofTanager Lodge Camp
in the Adirondacks. and Special Lecturer
in Recreation at the New York State
College of Forestry, Syracuse University.

The

Nature Program
at

Our Camp

By FAY WELCH

dozen ways in which it affected camp iifteen years
later——last summer.

One morning, early in the season, we looked
out from the breakfast table to see a beaver swim-
ming by the end of the dock. -Raccoons were our
almost nightly visitors, leaving dust tracks along
the trails, raiding tents, peering curiously at camp-
ers by lirelight or at early dawn, and on a few
rare occasions even coming close enough to ac—
cept food from the motionless hand of some very
calm and patient human. In early summer a flock
of young Canada geese wheeled over our point
and alighted on the bay. Several campers experi-
enced the thrill of having wild birds take food
from their hands. A few minutes of silent pad-
dling would take us almost any evening to places
where deer were splashing and feeding in the
marsh, while muskrats hurried from one reedy
point to another. Swimming out of the fog to
meet us as we came down to breakfast in late
August, a young buck landed on the point seek—
ing sanctuary from the dogs on the far side of the
lake. At night we had the stirring loon chorus,
the mysterious hooting of the barred and great
horned owls, and the occasional wild yapp of a
red fox. Dawn was ushered in by booming of the
bittern from the marshland and the nearby chorus
of purple linches, least fly‘ catchers, thrushes,
robins and song sparrows.

There was a special expe—
dition t0 the swamp in search
of a black ash of proper
growth and grain. Finally a
suitable log was found, car—
ried in and peeled. Splints

THE NATURE PROGRAM AT OUR CAMP 13

were pounded out and soon a pack basket was
taking form. Fire-by~friction sets were made,
paddles, bows, arrows, lacrosse sticks, paper
knives, book ends, balsam bough beds, birch bark
boxes of many shapes and sizes decorated with
porcupine quills. Other summers bridges, towers,
boats, docks and log cabins had been built.

The Staff

But an environment rich in natural resources
by no means insures rich nature experiences for
our campers. In fact, many of us may have been
discouraged to discover to what an extent indi—
viduals can be repeatedly exposed to nature and
yet remain almost entirely oblivious to it. There
are people who bring with them out of doors such
a nimbus of city-bred interests that they stalk
blindly by all but the most striking of natural
phenomena.

Hence the importance of the leader or coun-
selor who can artfully introduce the individual to
his environment. At Tanager Lodge we believe
it wise to get away from the nature counselor and
instead try to have all our_sta&' members inter-
ested in nature. Even though our nurse has never
studied ornithology, she is anxious to watch the
birds and encourages the campers with her to
make such careful observations that together they
can later identify them from pictures in the library.
The head of swimming did not know trees, but
he soon learned enough about them so that he
could help the campers select the right wood for
their campfires, lacrosse sticks or fire
sets. Of course, enthusiastic interests,
especially those of statf members, are
contagious. One of our doctors was
so keen about collecting and mount-
ing insects that before he had been
with us a week half the campwere
starting to make collections. Other
counselors are particularly interested
in stars, or ferns—or fishing!

Of course, as I have often said
before, there is certain nature knowl-
edge essential to a person who would

A successful fisherman must be
quiet; it is to the quiet per-
son that nature opens her pages

"What are our ultimate obiectives? We want
to enrich permanently the lives of our camp-
ers by developing in them an appreciation of
the exquisite beauties of nature, whether
that beauty is displayed in the glory of the
sunset, the maiesty of the storm, the cour-
age and devotion of a pair of nesting birds.
or the symmetry of a snowflake. We want
them to have a feeling of fellowship with the
mountains. the trees, and our wild brothers."-

camp safely, efficiently, and happily. Knowledge
of fundamental laws regarding swinds, waves and
weather—the ability to read and heed nature’s
warnings of hurricane, hail, fire or flood—is im—
perative. It is as essential in safeguarding the
lives of campers, especially those who sail, row or
paddle, as swimming or life-saving tests. Know-
ing the characteristics of various woods—which
ones ignite easily, which burn long and steadily,
where tinder is to be found after a week’s rain—
are skills that make it possible to have a fire ready
for cooking ten minutes after beaching your canoe.
And nothing else so expedites the routine of pre-
paring three meals a day when on a camping trip
as efficient tire building. One must be familiar
with many of the individuals, both plant and ani-
mal, comprising the forest community, if he is to
avoid unpleasant experiences. We toy with poison

(Continued on page 55)

 

A New Emphasis tor Playground Nature Programs

/

ROM THE STATUS of an ex-
periment in the summer
of 1936, the playground

nature activities program of
the Oakland Recreation De-
partment has grown to such an
extent that in the summer of
1939 there were 2,414 children
and 584 adults participating
in a city-wide, 'playground-
centered nature program. This
development has been both the cause and the ef-
fect of an increasing interest on the part of
recreation directors and playground patrons in the
great variety of nature activities available to resi-
dents of Oakland.

A special director of nature activities is directly
responsible for setting up and conducting a wide
variety of outdoor recreation events centered at
playgrounds throughout the city. With the co-
operation and active assistance of the playground
director, he organizes nature clubs, plans and con-
ducts hikes, establishes simple playground nature
museums, and gives lectures and “illustrates”
them with living plant and animal specimens. He
also encourages his listeners to begin their own
nature collections and in this connection freely
gives' of his training and experience in making
identifications and preparing labels. Part of the
special director’s time is also given over to demon-
strating nature handicrafts and in conducting
visits to local museums and wildlife sanctuaries.

Nature Handicrafts

In order to facilitate the conducting of nature
handicrafts on the playgrounds of Oakland, the
nature activities director has devised a very work-
able plan for the distribution and use of the spe-
cial equipment and supplies necessary. Instead of
attempting to provide individual tool and supply
kits for each of the more than sixty playgrounds,
the city is divided into twelve districts, and at a
centrally located playground in each district there
is deposited a complete outfit for such crafts as
spatter-printing, ozalid printing, blue printing,
and plaster casting. Each playground in the dis-
trict may withdraw these supplies in rotation for
the particular craft in which that playground is

14

The general plan of the nature recrea-
tion in Oakland. California, was out-
lined in considerable detail in the is-
sue ot Recreation for May. I938. For
this reason only brief mention will be
made in this article of the fundamental
basis of this city-wide program. and
the intent at this writing will be to note
some of the new emphases and the cur-
rent trends which have been apparent
during and since the summer of I939.

especially interested at the
moment. In this way, during
a period of weeks in the sum-
mer time, all who wish to par-
ticipate in these several crafts
will have had that opportun-
ity. This plan, which was
launched in the summer of
1939, will be enlarged and
used to an even greater extent
in the future.

Typical Nature Activities Outing

On Saturdays during the school year, as well
as at intervals during the summer vacation period,
the special director of nature activities conducts
playground groups on hikes and excursions of
exploration and collection. A favorite destination
for playground exploring parties is Lake Merritt
in the heart of the City of Oakland. A tidewater
lake covering some 155 acres, Lake Merritt is
surrounded by a beautiful park area that includes
at one end of the lake a wild duck reserve where
thousands of birds are fed and sheltered every
season. This area, of course, affords unrivaled
opportunities for young nature enthusiasts to ob-
serve directly the habits and characteristics of
many varieties of bird life.

At a boat house and a canoe house operated by
the Recreation Department, there are available
boating and canoeing facilities of numerous types.
In addition, outdoor fireplaces and tables near the
shores of the lake make it possible to enjoy a
picnic meal as part of the excursion. Many groups
enjoy crew rowing, also, as a part of their
special trip.

One particular winter-time outing to Lake Mer-
ritt and the Wild Duck Reserve is here described
in the words of the playground director who ac-

companied the nature activities director with her ‘
playground group.

“Had any of the parents of the boys and girls from
our playground happened upon the group scanning the
shores of Lake Merritt for crabs, clams and tube worms,
I would have been somewhat embarrassed, for I, too,
along with the children. was down in the mud and among
the rocks searching as diligently as any of the party.
Anyway, we were learning things and we loved it.

A NEW EMPHASIS FOR PLAYGROUND NATURE PROGRAMS ' 15

“Along the trail we sang songs, and our first venture
was rowing around the lake. It is always fun to roast
marshmallows and wieners, but it is the most fun when
it is done around the outdoor fireplaces at the Canoe
House. Firewood and sticks for roasting wieners and
marshmallows are provided as a Recreation Department
service.

“After lunch we walked to the duck feeding station
which is a part of the Wild Duck Reserve. Here the
nature activities director explained how the large cages
are used for trapping the water fowl for banding pur—
poses. We could see many ducks wearing the small,
light metal bands. We also saw many birds which had
formerly been in the Oregon Wild Life Exhibit at the
Golden Gate International Exposition and which are how
being released at Lake Merritt. The nature director gave
a most interesting talk on the life histories and habits of
birds now making their home at Lake Merritt. It seems
incredible, but members of the group identified twenty-
six species as follows: Eared Grebe, Pied—Billed Gre'be,
Blackcrowned Night Heron, Canada Goose, Cackling
Goose, White Fronted Goose, Snow Goose, Mallard,
American Pintail; Green-Winged Teal, Wood Duck, Red-
head, Canvasback, Scaup Duck, American Golden-Eye,
Ruddy Duck, California Quail, Coot, Glaucous-Winged
Gull, Herring Gull, California Gull, Ring-Billed Gull,
Bonaparte Gull, Heerman’s Gull and Forster Tern.”

The playground director continues her story of
this outing:
“In the course of the day we

visited the Museum where one may
see specimens of all the birds and

The Wild Duck Reserve at Lake Merritt
in the heart of Oakland is a popular '

“Leaving the Museum and returning to our explora-
tions along the tidewater. almost everyone succeeded in
catching a mud crab. We know, thus, first-hand, how
many legs a crab has, and we know just where to look
for angle worms, Western Oysters, and Bay Mussels and
large Horse Mussels. Several kinds of clams were un-
earthed and Acorn Barnacles were observed everywhere.
Along some parts of the shore every rock was covered
with little tubes in which tiny worms lived. They are
known as Tube Worms and are confused by' many per-
sons with coral. They were introduced to this area from

France and this is one of the few ports of the world in
which they are found.

“It was unanimously agreed that this winter-time ex-
cursion to Lake Merritt was a great success; certainly it
dispelled any ideas that the children or I might have had
to the effect that the summer-time is the only time when
hikes are fun.”

Mimeographed Bulletin Service

Another point of emphasis recently developed
in the nature activities program in the City of
Oakland is the preparation, by the special director
of nature activities, of mimeographed bulletins
relating to different phases of outdoor recreation.
The purpose of these bulletins is to give specific

and detailed assistance to

playground directors in order
that by using these sugges-

waterfowlwhich frequentthe Lake. place for vigil-5  playground groups thIlS they may give active CO'

 

16 A NEW EMPHASIS FOR PLAYGROUND NATURE PROGRAMS

operation to the special director in carrying on the
playground nature program. Obviously the di-
rector himself cannot spend a great deal of time
at any one playground, and the better prepared the
playground directors are to cooperate with him

in carrying out the plans he suggests at the time
of his visit, the greater is the continued interest

of the playground patrons. Typical subjects dealt
with by these bulletins are: “Hikes —- Trail
Games”; “Check-List of Animal and Plant Life
of Camp Chabot”; “Nature Lore Games”; “A
Bird Sanctuary in Your Own Backyard”; and
“A Nature Bibliography for Recreation Leaders

in California.”

A Sample Bulletin

DID YOU KEG“! THAT:

Bees do not bite? Dew does not fall?

All turtles are reptiles?

Poison ivy is not found in California?

Deers walk only on their toes?

The wing of the Red-winged Blackbird is not red?

Animals differ from plants in being unable to make
their own food?

\Vater snakes are not found in California?

The breast of the Robin Redvbreast is not red?

Bees do not gather honey from flowers?

Young beetles are called “grubs”?

Young files are called “maggots”?

Little flies do not grow into big files?

There are only about 5,000 stars visible to the unaided
eye?

“Wormy” apples do not contain worms?

Blue—belly lizards are not poisonous?

All cone-bearing trees are not evergreen?

Warts are not caused by touching toads?

Nearly all forest fires are caused by man?

The “Flying Squirrel” cannot fly?

“Darning Needles" are unable to darn?

“Horned Toads” are really lizards?

The “Potato Bug” is not a bug?

Squirrels do not crack nuts?

Dying snakes don’t wiggle until sun down?

“Shooting Stars” are more properly called meteors?

The rattlesnake does not spit poison?

No snakes roll along as hoops?

Nearly all of hawks are- useful?

Fishing leaders are not made from cat intestines?

Blackbirds are not really black?

The mole feeds largely upon insects and worms?

The Gila Monster is the only poisonous lizard in the
United States?

All insects have six legs?

All swimming birds do not have webbed feet?

Fish differ from reptiles in having gills?

Plants get the energy for food-making from the sun?

All leaves that turn red are not dangerous?

The owl is not an unusually wise bird?

Comets and meteors are not the same?
The Starfish is not a fish?

Spiders are not insects?

Not all lizards have legs?

Poison-oak has blossoms?

Ferns do not have blossoms?

The goose is not a silly bird?

Polaris will not always be the North Star?

Any insect having wings is full grown?

You cannot tell the age of a rattlesnake by its rattle?
Snakes do not swallow their young to protect them?
Snakes are not slimy?

Drone bees cannot sting?

The twinkling of stars distinguishes them from planets?
No green snakes in the United States are venomous?
Snakes do not “coil” to strike?

The Appeal of Playground Nature
Activities Program

After several seasons’ intensive work with
playground groups and directors”, it is the consid—
ered opinion of the special director of nature ac-
tivities that it is really no problem to interest chil-
dren in outdoor recreation. They seem to have a
natural interest which requires some encourage-
ment and provision of opportunity by those in
charge of the playground program. Furthermore,
it is not necessary for the playground director to
feel that‘he must be an expert in nature lore
before he can attempt to conduct a nature activi-
ties program for his playground. With the help
of the special director, the mimeographed bulletins
and additional inexpensive publicatons and a real
interest in observing nature, every playground
may become the center for outdoor recreation.

“Nature can be fitted into a recreation program
in a number of ways, enabling you to select the
one or more methods best suited to your needs.
Nature can be a regular part of the recreation
schedule with definite hours set aside for it on a
class basis. There may be children’s museum
classes, gardening groups, or general nature
classes. The program may be planned in the form
of clubs centering around hobby interests, such as
general nature clubs, mineral clubs, pet clubs, star
clubs, and the like. Or it may be one of the many
activities of other groups or clubs. The hand-
craft group, for instance, may use designs from
nature and investigate the source and treatment of
the raw materials they use——the clay, wood or
metal; and the drama club may put on a conser-
vation play. Or the program may consist of a
series of special events, such as celebration of Bird
Day. On many playgrounds a week in the summer
is set aside as Nature Week, and nature activities

 are stressed.” From Adventum’ng in Nature.

 

 

U. 5. Forest Service Photo

Recreation in the National Forests

NTIL RECENT years, the rec—
U reational enjoyment of the

forest has been chiefly of
an incidental nature. Today,
however, forest recreation is no
longer an unpremeditated matter. People do not,
as a rule, live in the forest any more, and if they
go there to enjoy themselves they are fully cons—
cious of their purpose. Consequently they have
come to realize that forest recreation has a deli-
nite value in their lives, that it is something for
which they are willing to sacrifice time and money.
and so they desire to plan for the preservation of
its possibility.

The National forests number '16] and contain
more than 175,000,000 acres, mainly in forest-
covered, mountainous country. By reason of their
geographical distribution in
thirty-six of the forty-eight
states, Alaska, and Puerto
Rico, they are the most gen-
erally accessible large public
areas adapted to outdoor rec—
reation in the country. Pic-
nicking, camping, fishing, hunt-
ing, hiking and motoring are

By JOHN SIEKER

. Assistant Chief
Division of Recreation and Lands
Forest Service

"The use of forests for recreation
probably dates from the time when
some wandering savage, returning to
his cave through the depths of the
primeval forestl may have noticed
a beam of sunlight shining on some
darkened tree trunk. and felt. all
'at once' a moment of great joy."

recreational activities common
to all forests. Swimming is of-
fered on most, while boating
and canoeing on the myriad for-
est lakes and streams, particu-

larly in the Lake States area, are an enjoyable

recreational opportunity. Winter sports recrea-
tionists find national forest snow trails one of
America’s most fascinating playgrounds:

Millions Visit the Forests

In round numbers, the best available statistics
on the use of national forest lands for recreation
during the year 1938 indicate there were approxi—
mately 14,500,000 actual users, and something like
18,000,000 driving over roads through the na-
tional forests primarily to enjoy the scenery, or a
total of nearly 33,000,000 who
actually enjoyed the recrea-
tional and scenic resources of
the vast expanse of land in
national forests. These figures
are valuable not as giving a
precise measure, but for the
general impression which they
convey of the enormous popu-

17

18 RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS

larity which recreational use of national forests
has already attained. There is, of course, a great
deal of duplication in these records. Some people
visited several different forests; some visited the
same area on a number of occasions. It is there-
fore impossible to state how many different per-
sons made recreational use of the national forests
during the year, but it is known that many mil-
lions did so.

On every one of the national forests the U. S.
Forest Service has developed public camp and
picnic grounds which are provided with simple
conveniences and necessities for the use of camp-
ers and picnickers. These camp and picnic grounds
are open to the public during the season of use
without charge, except that at some of the larger
areas where there are heavy concentrations of
people a nominal charge is made for special ser—
vices such as cut firewood, hot showers, and use
of bathhouse. Even on these areas where special
services are charged for, use of the area is free to
persons who do not desire the special services.

The national forests are rich in scenic beauty.
They have the double attractiveness of a country
that is largely forested, yet is easily accessible be—
cause of thousands of miles of'good roads and
trails. They are the home of game and fish, the
refuge and breeding grounds of much of the wild—
life that remains. Their wide distribution and ex-
tent, and their proximity to thousands of com-
munities make them natural centers of recreation.
Within their boundaries, travelers by automobile,
on horseback, or on foot, campers, hunters, and
fishermen, amateur photographers, hikers, natural—
ists—in fact, all who Wish to come——have equal
opportunity. Care with fire and cleanliness in camp

are all that are necessary to make the recreationist
welcome.

The great majority of people who today visit
the national forests do so'by automobile. While a
large proportion of these visitors do not pene—
trate into the forest, many of them are very much
concerned with the part which they can see from
the highway. If this attractiveness were destroyed
or seriously damaged, their enjoyment of touring
would be immeasurably impaired. Consequently,
it follows that for these people it is of great im-
portance to preserve from serious scenic damage
the timber strips along the more important roads.
Although for many people the automobile tour in
itself supplies every want, increasing numbers of

'peOple desire more intimate contact with the
woods.

Camp and Picnic Grounds

Because of the extreme range of the national
forests, it is impossible to describe the facilities
or the types of recreation offered in any but a
very general way. Some of the forest recreation
areas are open the year round while others are
usable for only a few months in the middle of'the
summer because of their high altitude. Some are
within view of magnificent mountain scenery, at.
the base of snow-capped peaks, while others are
sheltered in the wooded hills. Some recreation
areas are reached only by traveling over moun-
tain roads, and others are in close proximity to
transcontinental highways. Camps are found in
the dense spruce and pine forests of the Great
Lakes region, and also in the heart of the Arizona
desert amid interesting cacti where water is ob-
tainable only at a few places. You can camp on
the national forest with the surf pounding at your
feet, or at ten thousand feet elevation where the
alpine flowers make the best of the short season
and isolated snowbanks do not entirely disappear
until in August, only to start piling up again in
October. One can find national forest camps that
receive 100,000 visits a year, or some that are
used by hardly more than a few solitude-loving
campers. Since the areas are generally at higher
elevation than the surrounding country, and are
almost invariably under forest trees, they offer
climatic relief to the visitors from the lower sur-
rounding country.

All forest camp and picnic grounds are located
in surroundings which will best serve the desires
of the people who will use them. Shade, scenery,
and a forest environment are the principal values
sought, but fishing, boating, hiking, and swim—
ming facilities are also very carefully considered
and are available at many areas.‘ Naturally, the
location of other nearby camps also inHuences the
choice, since it is desirable to give variety of sur-
roundings and interest so that all kinds of people
will ’be able to find wholesome recreational en joy-
ment. Forest camp and picnic grounds usually
provide tables, fireplaces, safe drinking water, and
sanitary facilities, and frequently the larger areas
have community shelters. Some picnic areas have
children’s playgrounds.

The camp and picnic sites are so arranged that
individual parties may have relative privacy, but
if a group comes there are sites large enough to
accommodate them. In general, the sites for in—
dividual parties are over a hundred feet apart and
whenever possible are screened from each other

RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS - 19

by tree growth. The general atmosphere is rest-
ful and definitely of forest character. The im-
provements are all simple and appropriate to the
forest, harmonizing as much as possible with the

natural setting.

Wilderness Areas

Besides camp and picnic grounds, the national
forests offer other forms of recreation. On many
forests wild, scenic back country has been set
aside as wilderness areas in which the works of
man are kept at a minimum. Roads and man-
made improvements are prohibited, and these
areas are accessible only by horseback or afoot.
Here the lover of the primitive can lose himself
in the almost complete absence of artificial influ-
ences and can feel somewhat the emotions of the
pioneer who blazed the first trails through the
forest.

In addition to these individual recreational op-
portunities offered by camp and picnic grounds
and other recreation areas on all national forests,
there are interesting group trips and hikes planned
on many forests by local resorts, dude ranches and
hiking clubs. The American Forestry Association
sp'onsors several trail rider trips each summer into
national forest wilderness areas, each group con-
sisting of from twenty-five to thirty persons.

Scenic Trails

The national forests offer thousands of miles of .

scenic trails for hikes all over the country. There
are also two famous trail systems which have
become established through the cooperation of
hiking clubs. The Appalachian
Trail System stretches from
Maine to Georgia, on both gov-
ernment and private land. This
system is signed by local chapters
of the Appalachian Trail Con—
ference who also contribute to
the maintenance of the trail where
it passes through private land. It
is used extensively by local groups
for day and over-night trips. On
the Pacific Coast, the Pacific
Crest Trailway extends from the
Canadian border to Mexico. This
system is continuous through
Washington and Oregon where
it is known as the Cascade Crest
Trail and the Oregon Skyline
Trail, but there are some incom-

 

plete sections in California. Local hiking enthusi‘
asts use this trail system extensively for long and
short trips. °More detailed information about
these trails can be obtained from the Regional
Foresters in Washington, D. C., and Atlanta,
Georgia, for the Appalachian Trail System, and~
the Regional Foresters at Portland, Oregon, and
San Francisco, California, for the Pacific Crest
Trailway.

Winter Sports Areas

In recent years the Forest Service has im-
proved many winter sports areas where snow con-
ditions are satisfactory for skiing, snowshoeing,
tobogganing, and kindred sports. The areas have
abundant trails, suited to the beginner as well as
the expert. These areas generally have shelters
and often ski lifts to carry the skier to the top.
Except for a small charge for the use of the ski
lift the areas are free, and for those who prefer
to walk up the slopes there is no charge. Cross
country skiing on the forest is becoming more and
more popular each year for those who love to get
out into the forest. Many types of forest scenery
are even grander in winter than in summer.

Organization Camps

For those who must get their recreation at very
low cost and sometimes with financial assistance,
the Forest Service recognizes a definite need for
special outdoor recreation facilities. To meet this

(Continued on page 56) .

One of ’rhe a’r’rrac’rive ’rrailside shelfers
in fire Apache Na’rional Fores’r in Arizona

-

U. S. Forest Service Photo

 

Schools of the Out of Doors

To LOUIS AGASSIZ goes

credit for establishing

the first nature training
school and indeed the first
organized summer school—
in all of the western hemi-
sphere. That was in the
summer 1873. on Penikese
Island, 011‘ the Massachu—
setts coast. Agassiz’s school
. was designed “for teachers
who propose to introduce
the Study (Natural History)
into their Schools, and for
Students preparing to become Teachers.” To this
Anderson School of Natural History were at-
tracted forty-four students, all but four of whom
were teachers in public schools or colleges. Al-
though the school lasted only two summers, its
aim “to show how teaching in natural history
should be conducted by competent teachers" was
fulfilled. ’

Agassiz’s students continued this work of their
master in two directions. One group evolved field
laboratories primarily devoted to the advancement
of biological research and the teaching of ad-
vanced teachers in the various biological sciences.
These institutions are the
so-called biological field sta-
tions, of which there are
inorethan
fifty in North
America to—
day. Some of
these stations
offer courses
in the field
sciences, but
training pub-
] i c s c h o o 1
teachers is not
their chief
purpose.1

 

The second
type of field
1 a b o r a t o r y
which was in-
spired by

,There are about sixteen nature
training schools in. this coun-
try—"field laboratories". where
teachers and others are learn-
ing methods of teaching nature
subiects to the uninitiated

By HOMER A. JACK

Science Education Department
Cornell University

 

Agassiz is the nature train-
ing school. This is an insti-
tution whose purpose more
closely resembles that of
Agassiz’s school; it is to
give teachers a background
in the field sciences and—
equally important—to show
them methods of teaching
these subjects to the un-
initiated. While there are
only a third as many nature
schools as field stations in
this country, they are found
from Alaine to Southern California, from sea
level to high altitudes of the Rocky Mountains.
The organization of these nature training
schools is not complex. They are sponsored usually
by non-profit nature associations, teacher training
institutions, or similar groups. Most of these
schools own or have the use of some sort of adult
camp in a locality with several distinct natural en—
vironments readily available for study. Laboratory
and living facilities are often provided for as
many as fifty students at these camps. A few of
the schools do not provide living facilities for the
students, board and lodging being obtained at
hotels or boarding houses

A class in the study of Botany at the Alle- near the SChOOlS 01' con'
gany School of Natural History goes afield

nected with them. One of
the schools is
itinerant, with
the students
and faculty
traveling by
automobile
and living in
sleeping bags
underthe
stars —- and
clouds. Ses-

__.

1 For further in-
formation on the
biological field sta-
tions of the United
States, including a
list of courses
given by them, the
reader is referred

 

to an article by
the author in the
March 1940 issue
of The American
Biology Teacher.

Courtesy “Hobbies.” Buffalo Museum of Science

20

SCHOOLS OF THE OUT OF DOORS " 21

sions of the schools are mostly held in the sum—
mer months. They vary from one week to six,
some beginning in the middle of June and others
in late August. The cost—including board, lodging,
tuition and transportation for field trips—averages
somewhat less than $19.00 a week. This is a
moderate sum, considering one is combining voca-
tion with vacation, education with recreation.

The program at these nature schools consists
of varying mixtures of field trips, lectures, denion-
strations, and conferences. There are seldom for—
mal classes and the instruction is usually adapted
to the needs of the individual public school
teacher, camp counselor, or recreation specialist.
Recognized scientists such as Oliver P. Medsger,
A. A. Saunders, Gayle Pickwell, and others are
employed by these institutions to give students
the adequate scientific background which is gen-
erally recognized as pre-
requisite to successful na-
ture instruction. When the
training session is of short
duration, the student is
shown where to ‘hnd aids
in interpreting the facts
about the various natural
history groups in his'
teaching environment,
rather than being taught
the facts themselves. Out-
standing nature leaders
such as William G. Vina],
\Nilliam P. Alexander, Farida A. W iley, and
others are also in residence at these schools to
engender in the student—often by contagious en-
thusiasm—the elusive technique of successful
teaching. Students are shown the psychology of
leading field trips and the hard work necessary to
make them a success. Hints are given for the care
of native animals and plants in the nature corner
or small museum—and for the care of the very
interested youngster in the midst of these excit-
ing new things.

An annotated list of the nature training schools
in the United States follows. Persons wishing to
attend any of these institutions are urged to make
arrangements with the directors well in advance,
for several of the schools have waiting lists for
some of their sessions.

The Eastern Nature Schools

Allegany School of Natural History. Allegany
State Park, Quaker Bridge, New York. Six—

Mr. Jack has performed an exceedingly valua-
ble service in compiling this list of nature
training schools. With the name of each is
given its location. the number and length of
its sessions, the approximate time of the year
the first session begins. the l<ind of instruc-
tion offeredI the cost of attending a session.
including tuition, board and lodging, and
finally the name and address of the director.
Anyone interested in a particular school may
obtain additional information and. in some
instancesI an attractive announcement by com-
municating with the director of the school.

week session, beginning about the first week of
July. Courses offered in field methods in nature
study, wildlife conservation, natural history of
birds, held botany, and field zoology. Total cost:
$150. Prof. Robert B. Gordon, State Teachers
College, West Chester, Pennsylvania.

Pennsylvania State College Nature Camp. Stone
Valley, Huntingdon County, Pennsylvania. Two
three-week sessions, the first beginning about the
last week of June. Courses offered in nature edu-
cation for elementary school teachers and for
high school teachers. Total cost: $75. Prof.
George R. Green, Pennsylvania State College,
State College, Pennsylvania.

Nature Guide School. Pine Tree Camp, Plym-
outh, Massachusetts. Two-week pre-camp session,
beginning about the third week of June, and six—
Week regular session, beginning about the first
week of July. Courses,
given in a four-year ro-
tating plan, offered in
scouting methods, camp
leadership methods, gar—
dening, and in the various
taxonomical and ecological
groups. Total cost: $69
(for the six—week ses-
sion). Prof. William G.
Vinal, Massachusetts State
College, Amherst, Massa—
chusetts.

Audubon Nature Camp.
Muscongus Bay, Damariscotta, Maine. Five two—
week sessions, beginning about. the middle of
June. Courses offered in nature activities and in
the general fields of ornithology, botany, ento-
mology, and marine and fresh water life. Total
cost: $51. Carl W. Buchheister, National Asso-
ciation of Audubon Societies, 1006 Fifth Avenue,
New York City. ‘

New Hampshire Nature Camp. Lost River Res-
ervation, North Woodstock, New Hampshire. Two
two-week sessions, the first beginning about the
third week of June. Course offered in nature
study, being a combination of science education,
geology, botany, ornithology, and zoology. Total
cost: $50. Dr. Jarvis B. Hadley, Tufts College,
Medford, Massachusetts.

Science of the Out of Doors. Lakeville, Con-
necticut. Four-week session (although a minimum
of two week’s work may be taken), beginning
about the second week of June. Course offered in
outdoor science. Total cost: $121 (for the four-

22 SCHOOLS OF THE OUT OF DOORS

 

A class studying rock formations at

the West Coast School of Nature Study

1‘

week session). Prof. F. L.
Fitzpatrick, Teachers College,
Columbia University, New York City.

Merricon Biological Laboratory. Nelson, New
Hampshire. A two-week nature training course,
beginning any time between the middle of June
and the middle of September. Total cost: $30.
Prof. Parke H. Struthers, Syracuse University,
Syracuse, New York.

The Central Nature Schools

American Institute of Nature Study. McGregor,
Iowa. Two-week session, beginning about the first
of August. Course offered in nature study and
conservation. Tuition: $5.00. Glenn W. Mc—
Michael, McGregor, Iowa.

Geneva Lake Summer School of Natural Science.
Williams Bay, \Visconsin. The school will be re-
organized in 1940, but in 1939 there was a six-
week session in natural science, beginning about
the last week of June. Tuition: $25. Mr. O. D.
Frank, University of Chicago, 5835 Kimbark
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Nature Leaders Training School. Oglebay Park,
Wheeling, West Virginia and '
in the West Virginia moun-
tains. Two two-week sessions,
the first beginning about the

"That is the charm of teaching from
Nature herself. No one can warp her to
suit his own views."-—L0uis Agassiz.

second week of June. Courses

offered in birds, reptiles and
amphibians. freshwater life, mammalogy, insect
life, plants, geology, and astronomy. Total cost:
$29. A. B. Brooks, Oglebay Institute, Oglebay
Park, Wheeling, West Virginia.

Lost Lake Conservation Camp. Long Lake, W'is—
consin. Six-week session, beginning about the
third week of June. Courses offered in conserva-
tion, field zoology, general botany, systematic
botany, and geology. Total cost: $85. I. D. Hill,
State Teachers College, Superior, Wisconsin.

The Western Nature Schools

Yosemite School of Field Natural History. Y0-
semite National Park, California. Seven—week
session, beginning the last full week of June.
Special emphasis is given to methods of interpret-
ing living nature in the fields of botany, forestry,
entomology, ornithology, mammalogy, and geology.
Total cost: $90. C. A. Harwell, .Yosem'ite Na-
tional Park, California.

West Coast School of Nature Study. At various
localities in California, with headquarters in San
Jose. Four one-week sessions,
several during the summer
months and often one during

(Continued on page 55)

f

State Parks—Centers for Nature Recreation

VER THE greater por—
0 tion of the area of the
United States the icy
winds and the thawing frozen
mud of winter are ushered
out with the advent of April.
It is in this month that the
masses of our people turn
their paths from the cities
and towns into the open coun—
try to be re—created where
“Nature speaks in symbols
and in signs.” -
Weeks before the first nod—
ding Dogtooth Violet and
swaying Dutchman’s Breeches can be found along
the wooded trail, some 6,000 nature recreationists
have traveled to northern Indiana’s Dunes State
Park to find the hidden treasures within its walls.
These nature—lover park visitors—the hiker, pho—
tographer, artist and naturalist—weather their
wintry, chilly arrival and then hasten to the se—
cluded shelter belt whose valleys are protected
from the chill lake winds by the 200 feet rise of
the great dunes. The warmth
of the February and March

By GARRETT G. EPPLEY

Mr. Eppley has served since I936 as rec-
reational planner with Region 2 of the
National Park Service with headquarters
at Omaha' Nebraska. During the current
semester he is enrolled for graduate
worlc at New York University. His pre-
vious experience was in Indiana where
Recreation Director

both at Evansville and East Chicago. and
as E.R.A. Recreation Director for the
state. He has been devoting the maior
portion of his time to the initiating
of leadership programs in state parks.

he served as city

Cars are left behind as they start on a na-

sun's rays, retained within
these valley depressions, make
it a climate apart from the
winter on the outskirts of the
dunes. It is in these tucked-
away havens that one may
come upon acres of Wild
flowers, myriads of birds and
great numbers of wild ani-
mals—all who found this
shelter centuries ago.

Through snow, rain,
cloudy weather or sunshine,
the quiet secluded valleys of
the dunes shelter nature and
nature recreationists. There the nature—lovers find
their-recreation a quiet lot, each in sympathy with
the other’s interest and all in harmony with the
environment.*

Most of us, who may not have an opportunity
to make visits to some of the unusual pre—spring
havens of natural history, will find supreme de-
light in an April or May visit to some of the
numerous state parks of our United States.
Whether the distance of

 

* Outdoor Indiana, February 1939.

ture tour in Lalce Ahquabi State Park' lowa

 

23

24 STATE PARKS—CENTERS FOR NATURE RECREATION

travel to the park be great or small, by car, bicycle
or by foot, it is the following of some wood path,
after one’s arrival in the park, that will make the
visit render full returns. It is the first sight of
‘the wood flowers, pushing their fragile dainty
petals into view from beneath the rotting leaves,
or the finding of a Jack-in-the-Pulpit and the rare
Moccasin flower that gives us a taste of the choice
morsels of nature magic.

“’ithin the different climates of our states, each
state park holds its enchanting fascination of
spring, yet there seems to be a common joyful
experience in viewing the arrival of a spring that
is intensely animated with the blossoming of the
Flowering Dogwood and the rich Redbud, to hike
along that pathless wood trail that quietly pauses
before a wood marsh and find there vast beds of
snow-white Trillium interspersed with the pink-
like petals of the older blossoms; to watch and
listen to those lovable, noisy, glossy black, Red-
winged Blackbirds whose business of beginning
their new homes keeps them " '
flying about among the wil-
lows so that one can enjoy
the beauty of those gaudy
shoulders so proudly adorned
with the daring red patches
bOrdered with yellow; to turn
away from the wood marsh
and follow the winding ascent
into the upland wood, hearing choruses of the
shrill, clear whistle, “What-Cheer, What-Cheer,”
and its saucy harsh contrast, “Jay-Jay.” To go on
and on until the day is done, welcoming the re-
turn of old familiar wood friends and experienc-
ing the great joy of making new ones. '

School Children and State Parks

It is during these few choice weeks that great
numbers of school buses filled with children from
urban and rural consolidated schools will be going
to the state parks for their spring picnics. Those
children belonging to nature clubs, and those to
whom museums are available will feel at home in
a state park. Others, who have become acquainted
with nature in general and with the state park to
be visited in particular through the aid of color
slides and films, will require only a short time to
orient themselves in the area to be visited. In
planning a trip to a state park, a wise school prin-
cipal will attempt to secure literature, slides, and
films from state park authorities or the extension
department of the state university. He will inves-

"From day to day. through each season
of the year, nature speaks in tones of
varied beauty; but it is in April and May.
as she travels across state parksI that she
leaves in her pathway a medley of soft
and stirring greens with earthened galax-
ies painted by her brush of many colors."

tigate the possibility of available naturalist service
from the park department or from the community
in which the park is located, and, if none can be
secured, he will designate some of the faculty
members to assist the children on the trip by in-
terpreting nature and by stimulating their explora-

tory interests.
On the way to the park, the children, under

pr0per guidance, will notice the-many points of
interest. At the park they will divide into groups,
and each group, accompanied by a park naturalist

or teacher, will begin its explorations. Some will '

seek the meandering rock-strewn‘ creek; others
will follow the trail that leads through the wood.
In answering the numerous questions that will be
asked, the naturalist will direct them to further
explorations. During the'day many varieties of
native wild Bowers and trees, some of which they
have never seen, will be discovered and admired.
Attracted by their songs and brilliant colorings,
the children will approach the birds with cautious
steps. Toads, snakes and bugs
will probably hasten for
cover, but the frisky squirrel,
jumping from limb to limb‘
and from tree to tree, will
cause exclamations of delight.
The picnic lunch, happily in-
terrupted by songs and a few
games, can serve as the inter-
mission of the day. Just after the lunch intermis-
sion is an appropriate time for the trailside mu-
seum to be viewed. There the children will be
delighted to discover that they can find, and iden-
tify specimens which were seen along the trails;
or they may discover some specimens like the ones
seen from their school slides and films.

There will probably be time for another short

hike after the museum visit but, the hour for

going home always comes too soon for most of
the youngsters. Happy, though tired, each child
will look forward to another school trip in the fall
when he can enjoy the fall colorings and brisk
hikes over the trails. In riding home some of the
children will concoct good reasons why their
fathers and mothers should take them to the park
again soon, and if this can be done occasionally
parents and children soon learn that such trips
are wholesome family recreation.

Adventures with Nature

One state park visit, to be long remembered,
was made last April to the Wilderness State Park

STATE PARKS—CENTERS FOR NATURE RECREATION ' 25

situated along
northern Lake
Michigan about
twelve miles
from Mackinaw
City. A training
conference for
park naturalists,
sponsored by the
Recreation Divi-
sion of the
VVPA and the
State Conserva-
tion Department,
was being held
there.

Before going
to the confer-
ence, Mr. King-
scott, state park
director, inform-
ed me that deer
roamed the park,
and that at about
dusk, some of
them often cross-
ed the road in
going down to the lake for water. I kept my eyes
tenser focused for any moving object or sound,
as I drove into the park on the first evening, but
I did not see a deer. This did not greatly disturb
me, for in my effort to spot a deer by sound or
movement I could see the great full moon peeking
through the trees as I drove slowly, weaving in
and out of the thick wood and open spaces within
the park area; and then, coming into a greater
open space, I could see the lake and the silvery
reflection of the moon on the water. The ethereal,
majestic atmosphere of the night so delighted me
that -I followed the same course the next evening
and was rewarded with the glimpse of two deer
on their return from the water’s edge. Their eve-
ning’s trek to the water’s edge evidently was for
the purpose of getting a drink, but it was past
dusk, and I wondered if their lateness in return-
ing into the wood may not have been due to a
desire on their part to linger longer and enjoy the
beauty of the water as the sky overhead cast its
last mixed rays of the daylight into that great
moonlight of the night. To glimpse the graceful
fleeting leap of the deer, in that environment, was
as the final intricate touch of the artist’s brush to

a masterpiece.

 

The park naturalist tells the story of the his-
toric village in Spring Mill State Park, Indiana

Young Naturalists

Two young acquaintances, Junior Lacey and
Ted lVlichaud, would have enjoyed the visit to
Wilderness State Park. Junior, son of the Na—
tional Park Service administrator for Michigan,
would rather be in a natural area than any other
place. When he goes to a state park he jumps out
of the car and runs for the wood like a rabbit
running for cover. Almost forgetting to eat, so
interested is he in his adventures, that he returns
to the car only when he hears the shrill “Come
home” whistle from his dad. Ted, young son of
Howard Michaud, chief naturalist in Indiana,
spends his summers at McCormick’s Creek State
Park in that state. Each summer Ted and his
mother select some nature project for exploration.
Last summer, in addition to his project, he and a
friend built a small dam and constructed a water
wheel, announcing to their park friends that one
penny would be chargedfrom each person that
came to see the invention!

26 STATE PARKS—CENTERS FOR NATURE RECREATION

The State Park Movement

There are 819 state parks in our United States.
They vary in size from a few acres to over 30,000.
Each area has at least one unusual or oustanding
feature. The areas are usually rugged in topog-
raphy, superb in scenery. and possess distinctive
scientific or historical interests. In a life of strain
and artiliciality they serve as mediums for achiev-
ing stability and peace of mind. They offer op-
portunities for relaxation, enjoyment of beauty,
invigorating and exhilarating exercise, scientific
research and various other means of expression.
In a state park one can actually plant one’s feet in
the soft earth. In a city one may look about and
proudly say, “Look what man hath wrought; he
has conquered the elements.” But when in a nat-
ural area one cannot help but realize that man’s
genius is small compared to that of the great
Creator. One’s wish then is that man had planned
more wisely.

The state park movement is relatively new, and
its leadership program has made only a beginning;
however, the beginning has proved successful.
Nature guide service has been initiated; trailside
museums have been constructed and nature ex-
hibits installed ; illustrated lectures have been given
to groups, both within and outside the park areas;
campfire sessions, community sings, and nature
clubs have been organized. Nature columns have
been written for the newspapers and radio scripts
have been prepared for broadcasts. Community
relationships have been established and extensive
cooperation has been secured. The parks are be-
coming the centers for those interested in nature
recreation.

Group and family camping have become an im-
portant phase of the state and Federal park pro—
grams. The person who is exposed to a natural
environment, for a week or two at a time, has op-
portunities for developing interests and an apti-

tude for nature recreation that he might not have
had otherwise.

Leadership Programs in Central and
Middle West

Although successful program demonstrations
have been initiated in state
parks located in the three other
regions of the National Park
Service, I shall discuss only
those with which I have had
definite contact—those located
in Region 2.

"Pausing in my studies this peaceful
afternoon, I chance to think of the
thousands needing rest—the weary in
soul and limb in town and plain. dy-
ing for want of what these grand old
woods can give."—-JobnMuitin I876.

Considerable interest is developing in the winter
use of state. parks, and although the interest is
largely in winter sports there are large numbers
of people who believe that nature, at this season of
the year, has something dehnite to offer them.

At Ludington State Park, Michigan, last Win-
ter, I was informed that a nature tour had been
planned for the following Sunday. The local rec—
reation director stated that he planned to take ad-
vantage of the popularity of winter sports at that
park by staging a big nature tour. He announced
that coffee would be served at the various stations
along the route., Later, I was informed that many
people took the tour, saw the interesting features
of the park, and, as was expected, made good use
of the hot coffee.

Under the direction of Charles De Turk, the
Indiana parks are used during the entire year. At
McCormick’s Creek State Park, the Evansville
Munihikers, sponsored by the City Recreation De—
partment come each New Year’s Day to hold their
annual meeting, hike over the trails and visit the
trailside museum.

The Indiana naturalist program has been in
operation for a number of years and has stimu-
lated an intensive interest in the parks. Early
morning bird hikes terminating with a breakfast
at an open fireplace, illustrated lectures in the park
inns, trailside museums, historical tours at the
restored quaint village at Spring Mill State Park
and the regular nature hikes during the day are
proving popular with thousands of people each
year.* ' i

In Illinois the State Park Division employs two
park naturalists on a year-round basis. The Rever-
end George Link, state naturalist, is stationed at
Pere Marquette State Park, and Dr. Donald T.
Ries is stationed at Starved Rock State Park.
Both parks are along the Illinois river. Starved
Rock is located about one hundred miles from
Chicago and draws many thousands of people
from that metropolitan region on a single day.
Pere Marquette is located at the junction of the
Illinois and Mississippi rivers north of St. Louis.
On a clear day one can see the great Missouri,
Mississippi and Illinois rivers from an observation
point in the park.

Naturalist Link has organ-
ized nature clubs in towns near
the state park. These clubs
hold regular weekly meetings

 

' 1939 Report of Nature Program, Indi-
ana Conservation Department.

mm—

S-T.ITE PARKS—CENTERS FOR NATURE RECREATION 27

in the park trailside mu—
seum. Illustrated lectures
presented by Dr. Ries on
Saturday evenings at the
Starved Rock Lodge have
proved popular at that
park. Both naturalists
make many contacts out-
side the park areas, conse-
quently, many of the organizations in the state are
becoming nature conscious. Hundreds of news-
paper articles are published about the'program.
The State Department of Education has cooper-
ated through the publication of a pamphlet en—
titled “Getting at Nature.”

The entire Ozark Region is a park, and it is
doubtful if one can find a more beautiful country-
side during the month of October. The 1300
mile indented shore line of the Lake of the
Ozarks, richly colored rugged forested lands over
the entire region, the many powerful springs and
smaller waterfalls, present a panorama of sym—

phonic beauty.

Although the Missouri State Park system is
young, Mr. I. T. Bode, State Conservation Di—
rector, and E. A. Mayes, in charge _of parks, have
initiated an excellent nature recreation program.
Park naturalists employed during the summer
months on a half-time basis devote the remainder
of their time to research work for which Missouri
University grants graduate credit.’ Pre—service
training conference for park naturalists are held
at Missouri University. Dr. Rudolf Bennit, Chief
of the Wildlife Survey at the University,.has
secured the cooperation of the various depart-
ments for the training conference and for the
field program. The Recreation Division of WPA,
under the direction of Corloss Jones and the State
Department of Education, have manifested con-
siderable interest in this phase of recreation and
education. A feature of the program planned by
Uncas M‘cGuire, chief naturalist, has been the
community nature tours held in each of the vari-
ous parks to which naturalists have been assigned.
These tours are sponsored. by local organizations
or committees and draw special lecturers from
colleges and universities, the U. S. Forest Ser-
vice, State Geological Survey, State Conservation
Department and Park Board, Missouri Botanical
Gardens, and local authorities. Each naturalist
regards himself as a community leader in nature
recreation and makes many contacts outside the
park area. Organizations such as the Missouri

Each year state park officials meet in con-
ference. The twentieth National Conference
on State Parks will be held May l3-l6l I940.
in Illinois and Indiana. Starting at Starved
Rock State ParkI the delegates will visit the
historic New Salem State Park in Illinois.
then travel to Turkey Run State Park in In-
diana. ending their iourney at the restored
village in Indiana's Spring Mill State Park.

\Nalk Way Club, organ-
ized by Al Wyman of the
St. Louis Parks and Play-
ground Commission, are
including state parks in
their weekly hiking sched-
ule.*'

Seventy-seven state
parks scattered throughout
the state of Iowa have made both rural and urban
populations park conscious. There the leadership
program is similar to that in Missouri. A state
advisory committee headed by Paul C. Taff, as-
sistant director of Extension Service, Iowa State
College, has been rendering invaluable assistance
to the program. The naturalist program has had
the cooperation of the various educational, recre-
ation, youth and conservation leaders of the state.
Federal, state and local agencies have participated
quite freely in all phases of the program. Over
I 1,000 copies of “Nature Notes,” prepared by the
park naturalists, were published by the Extension
Service and distributed to nature enthusiasts who
visited the state parks. City Recreation Directors
Ferdinand Bahr, of Sioux City, and Neviri
Nichols, of Cedar Rapids, assisted the naturalists
of state parks near those cities. The Recreation
Division of the W PA, under the direction of
Elston Wagner, has provided a portion of the
leadership personnel, nature publications, and
material for self—guiding nature trails. Mr. Victor
Flickinger, Chief of Lands and Waters, and M. L.
Hutton, State Director of the Conservation De-
partment, have been pleased with the favorable
newspaper publicity, the participation of the pub—
lic, and the interest manifested by the park cus-
todians in response to the program. The pre-
service training conference under the direction of
Dr. George Hendrickson of Iowa State College
has done much to imbue in the naturalists a feel—
ing that they are engaged in a movement of
importance.“

In Wisconsin and Michigan the Recreation
Divisions of the WPA directed by Fred Rhea and
Miss Ann Becker, respectively, have promoted
extensive programs. Programs have also been in-
troduced in the state parks of Nebraska and
Minnesota by the WPA Recreation Directors of
those states. In these states park authorities have

(Continued on page 58)

 

* 1939 Report of Park Leadership Program, Missouri Park Board.

** 1939 Report of Park Leadership Program. Iowa Conservation
Department.

What They Say About Recreation

life are found in those things which are the i

ll IT IS A KNOWN fact that the greatest values in

free gifts of natUre. The most valuable rec-
reational activities of mankind are those which
require no extensive preparation and which are
most simple and natural, those which are inher—
ent in the nature of human kind. . . . We take for
granted Opportunities for recreation which abound
about us; and, taking them for granted, we fail
to notice invidious forces and events which tend
to deny them to us. The beaches would afford, if
preserved and protected, the means of life-giving
recreation for millions of our people and for all
posterity.”—George- H jclte. '

“The world is not less beautiful if bits of it
become intelligible; a tract of country is not less
romantic if we carry a map; the sky is not less
blue if we know that the blueness is due to the
scattering of light particles or molecules far up;
there is no less pleasure in achievement if we use
good tools than if we use bad ones.”—A. V. Hill.

“The national park program is a broadly edu-
cational venture. It is an attempt to preserve,
make accessible, and present to the millions of
people who annually visit the parks and monu-
ments a living story of the world about them.

When people refresh themselves in great natural _

areas and at historic shrines, natural history and
human history are rescued from the laboratory
and the archives to become vital elements in the
welding of the nation.”——From What Are Nd-
tional Parks?

“In the last half century we herded 50,000,000
more human beings into towns and cities where
the whole setting is new to the race. Space in
which to play, contact with nature, and natural

processes-—of these the thoughtless city cheats its
children.”—-Herbert Hoover.

“Not many of us have the opportunity of
knowing the joys of long, happy days spent in
the solitude of a woodland such as that inhabited
by Thoreau; but to everyone the world out of
doors beckons a friendly hand. There is greater
joy in living for all of us who heed it.”——Ruth
Lohmamz, New Jersey State College of Agriculture.

28

“The lure of the land is many-sided; I have
yet to find any pursuit here that is not thick with
unexplored paths and untried adventures, and if I
were to outlive Methuseleh I believe that would
still be true.”—Go*z'e H ambidge in Enchanted Aere.

“The park, as it has evolved through history,
has had several functions—a hunting ground, a
luxury of the rich, a common meeting ground for
the public, a sanctuary, a play area, and a retreat
from something oppressing. Today all these uses
may be important, but there is a new conception
of the value of parks. One thinks of a park as an
eternal spring, giving forth intangible values
which constantly enrich and ennoble the corporate
life of any people. Parks inspire a love of coun-

- try.”—-Raymond Morrison in Parks and Ameri-

can Culture.

“Fortunate is the child who has been from early
days conscious of this busy world so unceasingly
astir about us. He has a wealth of memories to
carry with him through life.”——Margaret Kennedy
in Birds in the Garden.

“Those who love the park areas like to think
that the millions of-their fellow citizens who come
for recreation to the national parks may sense the

the ideals of the parks and go back refreshed to
their work and life at home.”

“The national forests include 175,843,405 acres
of public land. On the basis of a total population
of I 30 millions, each citizen’s share is little larger
than a football gridiron. But the national forests
belong to all the people, and the Forest Service is
charged with the responsibility of administering
all its resources and uses in such ways as will in-
crease the wealth and happiness of the greatest
number in the long run. One use of this vast
estate is for human recreation. Millions of people
come to it each year for an hour or a day or a
series of days of rest, of relaxation, of inspira-
tion, of seclusion, or of sport.”-——From Report of
the Chief of the Forest Service, 1939.

“\Ne are learning to use the native -beauty of
America in such manner that it shall not be de-

stroyed but shall contribute to our national life.”
———-From IV hat Are National Parks?

Nature for the City Child

By MRS' LLOYD GARRISON’ 3rd believable to the city child

who had been brought up

HE NATURAL history
docent had just opened

a drawer under one of the habitat cases in
the new animal room at the Brooklyn Children’s
Museum. She picked up a fragment of organ-
pipe coral and turned it over in her hand. It was
a lovely thing and the care with which it had been
handled by the children for more than six months
was proof that they too thought it beautiful. The
drawers, which were filled with objects meant for
handling, had been an experiment, and the docent
was feelinghappy about it. Things were a little
worn, perhaps, but nothing had been broken in
spite of the thousand children who came to the
Museum each day.

At that moment, twelve-year-old Margaret
skipped through the door and slipped her arm
through that of the docent. “I don’t think the
children take very good care of the exhibits,” she
said with an air of proprietorship. “Isn’t there
something we can do about it ?”

No “Do Not Touch” Signs!

Margaret is only one of hundreds of children
who sincerely feel that the Museum belongs to
them. They take an interest in all the Museum’s
problems, both physical and educational. They
handle the objects gently and are distressed when
anything is damaged. They are concerned about
the lack of space and need for new equipment,
and often they come into the office to discuss these
important questions or to make suggestions for
improvement. The Museum feels that this sense
of personal responsibility for the Museum is more
important in the preservation of the collections
than a thousand guards.

The atmosphere of the Children’s Museum was
set long ago by Miss Anna
Billings Gallup, the Muse—
um’s second Curator. A

"Children's museums have played a signifi-
cant part in American education for almost

never to touch! Sometimes he saw live birds in
the park, but, of course, he didn’t know much
about them and had never touched one. Then
this person, who talked in 'terms of a magic world,
would take a key from her pocket and would open

' the great case. She would. reach in and.take out

the mounted bluejay and put it into the hand of
the amazed and delighted child. He would walk
over to the window to see the iridescent colors of
the wings. She would tell him about the life of
this beautiful bird, what he liked to eat, how he
got his food, the color of the eggs which appeared
in the nest in the spring, and even what the nest
would look like. Often this experience would be
the child’s first intimate introduction to the nat—
ural world. He would become eager for more
knowledge and hungry for discovery. It would
not be long before the Children’s Museum was his
hunting ground, his second home, the romance in
his young life.

In 1899, when Professor William Henry Good-
year, Curator of Fine Arts at the Brooklyn Mu-
seum, first conceived of a “children’s museum,”
his chief concern was for the teacher of the bio-
logical sciences. He had seen in Europe some
amazing visual materials, charts and models which
demonstrated the structure of flowers and insects
and animals, and which came apart to show the
interiors as well. Impressed by the excellence of
this material, he persuaded President Franklin
W. Hooper to set up a “children’s museum” and
to purchase a collection of these visual aids from
Emile Deyrolle in Paris. The museum was housed
in an old mansion in what was then Bedford
Park. It had previously been used for the storage
of collections which were
awaiting installation in the
great new adult museum on

child might wander into the'

bird room and stick his nose
against the glass of the
case, hoping for a better
view. Often he would be
interrupted by a pleasant
person who would say,
“Wouldn’t you like to handle
that bluejay ?” This was un-

half a century. The place they take in the
future will be determined largely by their
ability to study and analyze themselves and
to recognize their own function in rela-
tion to other educational institutions.
There is no question about their influence
upon their young public. What form that
influence takes, howeverI is a considera-
tion which should lie close to the heart
of every parent and every educator."

Eastern Parkway. Some
people suggested that per-
haps the objects which were
not quite line enough for
the new museum could be
used as a nucleus for the
Children’s Museum. Quite
naturally, the citizens of
Brooklyn were incensed at

29

30 NATURE FOR THE CITY CHILD

 

the suggestion and said quite flatly that what was
not good enough for adults was far less suitable
for their children. The Brooklyn Children’s Mu-
seum was to have only the best. If children were
to be taught natural history, their teachers must
have the finest materials with which to work.

The Children’s Museum was indeed a great help
to the teachers of Brooklyn and to the entire
metropolitan area. They could come with their
classes and present subjects which would require
many hours of explanation in the classroom.
Visual education was being introduced to the
schools of the community, and it was a success.
Then something else began to happen. Children
in the neighborhood would wander in by them-
selves after school or on Saturdays. They looked
and looked and looked. Then they began to ask
questions. They asked so many questions that the
docents had all they could do to provide the an-
swers. This young public which exceeded in
enthusiasm anything known to the adult museum
world soon took all the spare time of the Museum
staff. Today the Children’s Museum feels that its
soundest educational work is done after the school
hours. There is no problem of discipline for there
is no compulsion to come. There has never been
more than one rule and that is the simple request
to wash your hands if you want to handle any-
thing. The children rarely ever have to be re-
minded, but head for the wash basin and the soap
as soon as they enter the Museum.

From the beginning the emphasis was placed 011
natural history subjects, although in recent years
the social sciences have become increasingly im-

One of the exhibits in the newly installed
Animal Room in the Museum. The cases are
designed with drawers underneath contain-
ing material for the children to handle.

portant. There are exhibition rooms for birds,
animals, insects, and minerals. In the basement of
the Brower Park Building is a mineralogical la-
boratory where scientific work of the most serious
type is carried on. A special science workshop is
located on the top floor of the St. Marks Avenue
Building, which was added to the Museum in
1938. It is a haven for- children scientifically in-
clined, for they can experiment to their heart’s
content in almost any scientific field. There is a
special room for the study of microscopy,
equipped with a dozen microscopes and a micro-
projector which enables a whole group to view an
enlargement of a microscopic slide on an ordinary
motion picture screen. A small library containing
about 15,000 volumes on related subjects provides
further resources for the young scientists, and free
motion pictures are shown each afternoon in the
lecture hall. There are a few live exhibits, in-
cluding snakes, rats, mice, two gila monsters,
doves, a flying squirrel, a baby alligator, a turtle,
and some fish. The science curator has always
felt that a knowledge and understanding of ani—
mals is important to the young boy and girl be-
cause it helps in the interpretation of their own
biological problems. . They learn to care for living
creatures and perhaps become a little more con-
siderate in their human relations.

Activities related to the exhibits are carried on
in almost all of the exhibition rooms all the time.
These are designed for the child who wanders in
by himself and wants something to do. There is
never any coercion applied to entice him to par-

_ ticipate. If a boy wants to sit on the floor and
look at a duck-billed platypus for an hour, no one
will discourage him. If, however, he reaches a
point in his speculation when he wants to know
more about this queer animal, the Museum docent
must be ready to guide him further in his self-
discovered interest. Sometimes she will suggest a
special course of study, or will send him to an-
other exhibition room or to the library for the
information. Gradually he will come to know the
resources of the Museum and will find his own
answers. In most cases the educational activities
are free from the competition which every child
finds in school. It has never seemed quite fair
for the Museum to set up the same obstacles which

NATURE FOR THE CITY CHILD

the child meets in the outside world. It is felt
rather that he should find a haven of security in
the Children’s Museum and that he should ‘be
allowed to carry out his own ideas in his own way.

Museum Clubs

The social value of group activities has been
recognized, of course, and these take the form of
Museum clubs. The docent or curator, however,
does not decide to have a club and then urge the
children to join. A club is formed when a group
of children interested in the same things come into
the office and ask for it. In each case, the chil-
dren write their own constitution (if they feel one
is necessary), make their own rules, plan their
own programs, give their own lectures. The rules
differ in the different clubs, but no club will allow
an adult to lecture. A staff member acts as gen-
eral counsel and stands by to give advice, but not
to direct or to take part. These clubs are serious
organizations. For example, the .Science Club
drops from membership anyone who does not
give at least two scientific lectures a month. If he
is not willing to do this much he, is considered a
dilettante and not an acceptable member. The
Microscope Club requires a knowledge of the
parts of the microscope and one piece of hand-
made microscopic equipment before admittance
to membership. In many instances the children
cannot afford the materials necessary in the pur-
suit of their particular subject, so consideration is
given to instruction in making their own. Every
Saturday the carpenter shop is turned over to the
children, and it is always filled with intent boys
and girls who are making equipment for use in
some other division of the Museum.

About twenty years ago the Museum set up a
loan collection, with a particular view to the needs
of teachers who were unable to bring their classes
to the Museum. A certain number of objects such
'as birds, minerals, shells, and mounted insects,
were prepared too for the use of children. A
certain knowledge of the subject is required for
the privilege of borrowing this material which
may be taken home, free of charge, for a week.
Most adults who visit the Museum are shocked
by this “carelessness,” and are usually unbeliev-
ing when told that almost no damage ever occurs
to exhibits lent to children.

'1

.u distiuwtwvd

A

_- F ‘ ‘U sea
’ “£53 ’7  31

It was natural that other cities should recognize
the social importance of children’s museums.
Boston followed Brooklyn’s example, and later
came Indianapolis, New Haven, Detroit, Okla-
homa City, Cambridge, Hartford, N orwalk, Knox-
ville, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Kansas City, Roches-
ter, Dayton, Los Angeles, Buffalo, Pittsburgh,
Newark, Jamaica Plain, St. Louis, Palo Alto, San
Francisco, Duluth, and Bridgeport. In 1937, the
American Association of Museums, at its annual
meeting in New Orleans, set up a Children’s Mu—
seums Section, and now each year separate dis-
cussions on Children’s Museum problems are held.
There has been a general awakening of interest
and introspection in the nature of these specialized
institutions. For forty years, children’s museums
have grown much like “Topsy,” using what ma-
terials and housing and leadership could be found
in the local community. Some have specialized in
natural history. Others have concentrated on art.
No one, however, has ever sat down to analyze
children’s museums and to decide just what the
minimum requirements should he. Are they
merely recreation centers? Are they serious edu—
cational institutions? Are they museums in the
same sense as adult museums?

All these questions are being asked by those
who feel the time has come to set up definite
standards for children’s museums. In brief, it is
felt that they must be museums first of all, using
objects and source materials as the basis of their
equipment. The exhibits must be designed for
children and there must be activities for children
which are definitely related to the exhibits.

This boy. who is making a ‘fixed focus en-
largerI is a member of the Craft Club in
which children learn to make the equip-
ment they need in pursuing their hobbies.

 

 

.

1. Oakland Recreation Department
2. Shelter. DeSoto National Forest. U. 5. Forest 5
3. 4, 5. Yosemite National Park. National Park S
Lott hand panel. Yosemite Park and Curry Compax

 

it:

 

Hiking in. Mill Creek Park '

ILL CREEK PARK in Youngs-
M town, Ohio, has its own
hiking club, and the weekly
, which are usually sched-
1. . early Sunday morning, are
al taken in the park with one
exception. This is an out—of-
town excursion on which the
club goes during the fall season.
Occasionally hikes are taken
Sunday afternoon, and when they are held at this
time they are followed by supper and a lecture in
one of the park cabins. In connection with the
morning hikes breakfast is scheduled for the third
Sunday of each month. It is in charge of a special
committee appointed to take charge of this part
of the program.
The Park Museum
Hikes are conducted during the winter season
as well as in summer, but in bad weather the
group spends its morning in the park museum
which is housed in an old fiour mill building. The
building and the nearby falls
are a familiar landmark to the

 
 
  
   

By KENNETH C. WIBLE
Recreation Director

Mill Creek Park

"I have met with but one or two
persons in the course of my life
who understood the art of walk-
ing. that is. of taking walks."

The Mill Creek Park Hiking Club

people of Youngstown and
vicinity. A full-time naturalist
is in charge of the building, as-
sisted by a part—time naturalist
and a park forester. In the
museum are mounted displays
of material characteristic of the
park and nearby region. Nat—
uralists are available for nature
hikes in the park or for lectures
in the museum. Lectures are also given outside
the park and Kodachrome slides are used in con-
nection with them. Last year 187 groups totaling
19,843 people saw these pictures emphasizing
nature lore and park appreciation.

Each month the museum leaders publish a
nature bulletin which is distributed to individuals,
school groups, settlements and similar groups by
the Wild Flower Preservation Society of Youngs-
town. On the park playground nature study is a
feature of the weekly program, with the park nat-

Thoreau

uralist assisting the playground leader in develop-

ing tree trails, in leaf printing,
and in mounting insects.

spies the first robin of Spring

‘ W. 5
9 s o '3;

 

Gathering a Collection of Memories

 HE PATRIARCH of the faculty,
': Tone of the wisest men of his

century, walked feebly down the
aisle and faced our student audience.
It wasaone of the last he was ever to address. He
leaned heavily on his cane. We knew, as he did,
that neither our veneration for him nor his af-
fection for us, devoted as those reciprocal feelings
were, could much longer withstand the advance
of the years. Audience and speaker realized that
it was to be a twilight talk, not alone in the sense
that it was evening on the campus. We knew that
his remarks might prove perhaps the finalibene-
diction of a great scholar.

‘He drew us all into a closer circle with a smile
which in itself expressed serenity, as well as
benevolence. At last he began to speak:

“When Youth looks at Age, tottering in its
feebleness, he pities him. But when Age looks at
Youth, expectant in its hopefulness, he pities him.
Youth forgets that Age has the comforts of ac—
cumulated 'memories to solace him. But Age never
forgets that Youth confronts the pains of disil-
lusionment to distress him.”

The talk that followed is itself a memory now.
It comes back over the years from my student
days to weave itself into the picture I want to
give you today. In such ways the pattern and
color of our thinking reflects our memories.

In those same college days I spent one summer
working in the city. I intended writing a story of
the summer’s experiences in a bitter labor strug-
gle. It was not a pleasant summer. Much of what

I saw was disheartening.
Days and nights were
spent in the slums of the
city. For weeks I didn’t
see a tree or flower, or
hear a bird. At last, one
Sunday when I could en-
dure it no longer, I went
out to Ravinia, to the
music pavilion surrounded
by the trees, where a sum—
nier concert series was be-
ing given by Walter Dam-
rosch and his orchestra. A
storm was gathering to the

By V. K. BROWN

Director of Recreation
Chicago Park District

"Our profession is pledged this .year to sup-
port the cause of nature recreation. President
George Hjelte has appointed a committee of
the Society of Recreation Workers of America,
not all of whom are members of the organiza-
tion.' The Committee is sending out to the
field an extensive list of suggestions embody-
ing the collective thought of all the members.
The list permits each member of the profession
to select a specific undertaking to which he
will give support orI if he prefersI to indi-
cate an original undertaking of his own. But
it provides a means by which unitedly the en-
tire profession may join this year in establish-
ing new elements in the American attitude
toward a greater appreciation of nature."

west as the concert progressed. It
broke in raging fury just as the or-
chestra started Wagner’s “Ride of
the Valkyries.” All the lights went
out just before the orchestra started playing that
number. The management produced candles,
which were tied to the music racks and lighted.
Wind was roaring through the trees. The light-
ning was almost incessant. One by one the candles
flickered out, but the orchestra played on,their scores
illuminated by the lightning flashes, the music
reinforced with the crash and rumble of thunder.
For all of those in the audience it was one of life’s
big experiences, the rising pitch of the music
mounting to its climax as the storm outside the
open pavilion reached its own accompanying cli-
max. I do not believe any person in the audience -
remained seated. We couldn’t stay in our seats.
We all rose to our feet, so compelling was the
thrill of the occasion. Everyone realized that he
was undergoing an experience which he would
never forget. None of us, I dare say, have ever
heard the opening strains of that composition
without experiencing again something of that
same thrill, brought back by memory to lend ad-
ditional present significance to the music. One just
can’t divorce that score from the memories that
cluster around it. They become part of it, and
the total effect of it on each new re-hearing is the
sum of its present rendition supplemented by the
renditions which one has enjoyed in the past. It
is thus that experiences are enriched by memories.

The cumulative value of experience is nowhere
better illustrated than in
nature. Thought pictures,
to most of us, are visual
pictures. If some one
should ask us what we had
for lunch, our memories,
in most cases, reconstruct
a visual image of the table,
the dishes, and the foods.
The word nature does not
suggest the whirling fiery
gases of a sun spot which
we have never seen, al-
though science has given
us something of an im-

 35

36 GATHERING A COLLECTION OF MEMORIES

aginery picture of them. Rather, it suggests some-
thing out of our own past and personal experi—
ence. The picture which oftenest comes to my
own mind is either a flaming yellow blossom

against the bare rock of a desert canyon, where I '

was startled to see it as I rounded a jetting
shoulder of the mountain, or it conjures up before
me a composite of rivers and forests which I have
actUally visited, of shade whose coolness I can still
feel, of the brown inquiring eyes of a little deer
that came up to eat out of my hands in the Yo—
semite, with squirrels and chipmunks flitting about.
I find, in my own memory pictures, that the
word nature never suggests the presence of many
people about me. It doesn’t bring to mind the
bathing beaches I have visited, nor does it sum-
mon again the outcroppings of rock from which I
hammered geological specimens. The memories
that chain together, f ollow—
ing the word, which sets
them all in motion, reflect
the associations which I
have built up over the
years, but those associa-
tions which stand out with
greatest vividness, I find,
are the ones which at the
time were furthest remov-
ed from the routine com-
monplaces of daily life.
Astronomy does not re-
call the books that I have
read about the solar sys-
tem, or the illuminated photographs of the surface
of the moon. The associating process brings, first,
an image that I saw the night I was worn out by
studying for an examination and went out into the
darkness to take a walk in the crisp air of winter.
Seeing the door of the observatory open, I went
into the telescope chamber, and one of the astrono-
mers invited me to look through the eyepiece of
the telescope. The instrument was trained on the
planet Saturn, enlarged by the reflector lens to ap-
proximately the size of the full moon, with its
rings extending out beyond the planet itself; and
close on the heels of this memory image is the
recollection of the evening when I first saw the
Planetarium, and after the bodies of our own
solar system had been put through their evolutions
in projection on the dome, the operator suddenly

' turned on the universe of stars.

Each of us has his own set of memories, but the
significant thing is that they attach themselves

I

"The educator. and the recreation worker as
well. is in the business of developing experi-
ences which will associate themselves with
future happenings to give them additional
meaning and significance. His business is one
of stocking the memories of those with whom
he deals with recollections that will associate
themselves with future living. In the words of
the poet Moore. he assists memory to 'draw
from delight. ere it dies. an essence that
breathes of it many a year.' He enriches not
only the present with his contribution to
greater variety and larger content. His is
a contribution to the future as well.".

even to the words that serve as identifying sym-
bols, and they come trooping back with every new
experience for which those symbols stand. The
new experience summons the old into audience
again.

And the new wouldn’t have much of signifi—
cance without the old. The new musical composi-
tion lacks depth until one has heard it several
times and begins to accumulate impressions. One
motif is reminiscent of a strain in an opera, or a
symphony that is half forgotten. Another sug-
gests a song heard long ago. Gradually the com-
position adjusts itself to the memories of the
auditor, and develops its own chain of satelites,
and then appreciation begins. It is the game with
which we have grown familiar that interests‘us.
We must understand it before it can fascinate us
as a spectacle. Ice Hockey, for example, has every
element of appeal—speed
and grace of movement,
rapidity of change, stra-
tegy which is transpar-
ently understandable,
shock and daring. But
people had to become ac-
customed to it before it
drew large audiences. It
required a set of memor—
ies before it filled the
stands.

It is well for the recre-
ation profession this year,
pledged as it is to make
the promoting of nature recreation a project of
the year, to bear_these facts in mind. The strategy
of our campaign is a strategy of relating other
interests to nature, to involve nature with other
memory associations, so that established prefer-
ences and accomplishments develop new connec-
tions with nature as a related subject.

Establishing an Awareness of N aturc

In the parks here in Chicago, we became con-. i
vinced that our athletes and the devotees of sport .’
were not intentionally destructive when they ‘
chased a foul fly through the shrubbery bordering
the, ball field. Rather, they were unaware of shrub-
bery, as shrubbery, considering it only an impedi-
ment to be ignored in concentrating their attention
on the business of catching the fly. What they need-
ed, we felt, to end what was'miscalled vandalism,
was a new awareness of shrubbery as shrubbery,
rather than as bushes. Our problem was how to

i;
l
l.

I the shrubbery significance

i
F

 hope immediately to inter-
; est them in landscape art.

GATHERING A COLLECTION OF MEMORIES 37

bring about this awareness,
how to establish memory
connections that would give

in the background of their
consciousness. We couldn’t

\Ve didn’t think that nature
study, as study, would ac-
complish what the educator
calls “transfer” into their
ball playing behavior pat—
terns. Education hasn’t
solved its problems of ’trans-
fer yet, to inspire us with
hope that we might succeed
where the educational proc—
ess has had so much dif-
liculty.

\Vhere the landscaping
had suffered most of destruc—
tion, however, one of our for—
mer’baseball players assembled
the boys of the neighborhood. Throughout our
system he was in charge of construction, and was
about to move into the park in question with a
\NPA crew to reconstruct the grounds. Before
doing so, he met the boys as they came tripping
out of the neighboring school. As soOn as he had
collected most of them he said to them, “Listen,
you guys. I’m the boss in this park over here,
and I want you fellows to ‘wise me up’ as to what
you want there. I was a kid myself not so long
ago, over in Bridgeport. We were pretty hard-
boiled eggs ourselves, and we had to light for the
things we wanted. I know that this park wouldn’t
be torn to pieces the way it is if it didn’t have
some things that were wrong with it, so I’ve come
over here to get you to tell me what’s wrong,
and help me put it to rights. It’s up to you now
to come across and give me the low—down. What’s
the matter? Let’s go right over to the park now,
where you can show me just what ought to be
donef’

The whole crowd went with him. Here was
somebody that promised to be sympathetic toward
their ideas. Arriving at the park, they pointed out
its defects:

“Look what these park guys done to our dia-
mond. They built a walk across right field, and
built up a bank alongside it, and put in a lot of
bushes. Over in left field they done the same

 

The search for specimens of marine
life is bound to have significance
for the child's later experiences

thing, only worse. They
stuck a fence in behind,the
bushes. How can we play a
ball game with all this stuff
in the way? We used to
have a good ball field here.
and them park guys jUst
ruined it.”

The construction engineer
who knew boys said, “All
right, fellows. Come on over
Saturday morning with your
shovels and we’ll tear the
stuff out.”

“Aw, but you can’t; the
cops’ll chase us.”

“No they won’t. I tell
you I’m boss here.”

Saturday morning all the
boys in the neighborhood
came over with shovels and
bars to tackle the job of demo-
lition. They tore out the cement
sidewalks which we had deter—
mined to remove with the WPA forces. They dug
up the fence and the shrubbery, the boss seeing
that the latter was removed with a ball of earth
around each root development, and that the shrub-
bery itself was neatly piled for transplantation.

The boys voted, as we had already decided in
our plans, that the playing field should be brought
up to level, and the surrounding terraces should
be cut down to grade. Qur engineer then pro-
pounded a new problem. After measuring off the
ball field to everyone’s satisfaction, he said, “But
look, you guys, your mothers and your sisters are
going to come over here some day to watch you
play. They are going to bring your baby brothers
over in the baby carriage, where they can see you
knock the cover off the ball. We’ll have to put in
a new walk outside the ball field. What do you
say we stake that out too, so my men, when I pull
them in here to finish up our work, will know just
Where we want it ?” Accordingly they staked the
walk out where our landscape department had
previously planned that it, should go in our recon-
struction project.

Then “Big Jim” had another idea, and again
called a council of war. “Listen, you bozzos,” he
said, “This place is going to look pretty tough
unless we have something growing around the
edges here. It’s going to be hot and dusty, and it
won’t be any kind of a place for your mothers to

38 GATHERING A COLLECTION OF MEMORIES

come and watch the game. It’ll look as bare as
that dump of a park over beyond the tracks. You
sure don’t want your park to look like that! That
may be good enough for those guys, but it isn’t a
fit kind of a place for such a gang as we have
here. What do you say we take some of this
shrubbery that we dug up and let’s plant it our-
selves, around the edges, where it’ll have a chance
to grow, without being in anybody’s way, and
where we can all take care of it and see that
nobody busts it up ?”

The result was that the day ended in a feverish
campaign of transplanting the bushes that had
been such a hated nuisance. The leader explained
the difference between one kind of shrubbery and
another. He got the boys to thinking about clus-
tering shrubbery for landscaping effects. He got
them to considering grassy bays between, where
the smaller children might picnic on the sod. He
pointed out locations where trees might be brought
in and located. He even suggested that the seeds
and berries of the shrubbery would attract birds
to move in and establish their homes. When the
labor forces arrived Monday to proceed according
to the blueprinted plan that had been drawn long
before, there was established in the memories of
the boyhood of the community a new element,
interpreting the work those laborers were to do.
They were carrying out a plan in which each lad
was participant. The whole boy community
watched proceedings with fresh interest. Every
wheelbarrow full of earth was moved in accord-
ance with a program whose design was a cooperat-
ing project. The park boyhood solemnly dis-
cussed with the workers the fulfillment of their
own plans. They pointed out the things that they
had done in preparation, the bushes which they
had planted themselves, and the sweep of open
space where they expected later to plant a “sizzl-
ing liner” when they got into the ball game.

Two or three years have passed since that park
was remodeled. Its shrubbery is thriving. It is
protected by every child who visits the park. No
one would dare to injure, much less destroy, it.
Each tree and bush has its associated memories,
and its consequent significance.

We could not proceed wholesale on a recon-
struction program in every park site, but we were
able 'to apply the same strategy in other locations.
Our landscape planners indicated spots where
children’s gardens might be accommodated with-
out detriment to the landscape composition. Our
propagating houses furnished flowers and plants

suitable for early transplanting in the spring, so
that something, at least, would be already grow-
ing, and the youthful gardeners would not have
a long and discouraging wait for seeds to ger-
minate and appear above ground. While the ball
player usually had no part himself in the garden-
ing enterprise, he did see his contemporaries work-
ing in these designated spots. While he had
ignored the gardening staff in the past, the sight
of children engaged in cultivating and contribut-
ing to the beauty of the park, by its very novelty,
forced itself on his attention. Insensibly he be-
came landscape-conscious.

The lad whose interest centered in the craft
shop was presently approached _by children of his
acquaintance with the request that he contribute
something of his time and skill to helping build a
set of window boxes in which flowers and vines
might be planted to decorate- the walls of the
fieldhouse. The metal craftsmen were similarly
approached to contribute toward the building of
metal brackets to support the window boxes. Boys
who had had experience were asked to paint the
boxes and the brackets, and some of the mechani-
cally-minded citizens of the juvenile community
discussed the drilling of holes in the building
walls, and the insertion of lead plugs in which the
brackets could be screwed securely into place.
Additional elements were thereby brought into the
consciousness of others than the few who were
enlisted in the gardening enterprise, as being al-
ready susceptible to a nature appeal and the result
has been that our budget for landscaping main-
tenance, which a few years ago was insufficient to
provide all of the repair and replacement of vege-
tation necessary, has been sharply reduced. The
movement has saved the Park District thousands
of dollars in landscaping repair bills.

We have established the beginnings, at least, of
a nature awareness. Something of the wonder
and curiosity which underlies a developing inter-
est in nature has been introduced into the com-
munity consciousness. Such establishment of
foundation memory associations is the first step,
we think, in developing a nature interest. It as-
sociates with the wanderlust, which sends youth
exploring its world, a wonderlust to keep it
company.

“The tradesman, the attorney, comes out of the '
din and craft of the street, sees the sky and the

woods and is a man again. In their eternal calm
he finds himself.”—Ralph Waldo Emerson.

I With the

HEN AN individual be-
Wcomes a Colorado

Mountain. Club mem-
ber, he has an opportunity to
take advantage of an increas-
ing number and variety of
activities. If he has not yet
been initiated into the tech-
niques of skiing, rock climb-
ing, ice work, or the use of
the rope, he may join with
others and be instructed. If
he desires to learn more
about nature, geology, or
photography, he may join
special groups and attend
lectures or field trips _con-
cerned with each. Nor should
his enthusiasm become dull-
ed, for other enthusiasts are
there in abundance to whet
his appetite, and Colorado’s

mountains, rich in variety‘

and interest, are close at hand.

The club has branch groups
located in Denver, Colorado
Springs, Boulder, Fort Col-
lins, and Walsenburg, as well
as a junior group in Denver.
Each group has its own
schedule of activities some-
times including joint trips of
two or more groups. A book-
let listing all of these events
for the year is published each
spring. The monthly publica-
tion of the club, Trail and
Timberline, contains infor-
mational articles of interest
and notes of the doings of
the various groups. Annual
wild fiower shows of some
groups have been very
popular.

The winter sports program
of the ski section has done

Colorado Mountain Club

By PAUL W. NESBIT

 

C mrrteiry C olora'do Mountain C lab

It is the experience of the Nature
Enjoyment Camp that through a
program of varied activities ap-
proaches to enjoyment of nature may
be utterly diverse and adaptable.

 

Courtesy Colorado Mountain Club

much to popularize skiing in
the region and to develop fa-
cilities for it. The club has a
ski lodge at Winter Park
(formerly West Portal) in
the mountains west of Den-
ver. This is accessible both
by railway and transconti-

‘nental highway. Here and

elsewhere in the state a wide
variety of winter sports
events are scheduled. The
Junior Group, besides fur-
nishing members of the Ski
Patrol, whose primary aim
is to promote safety in ski-
ing, is looked to for future
championship material.

A high point was reached
in our program last summer
when climbing and nature
activities and interests were
experimentally combined in a
School of Mountaineering.
This school, based on the idea
that the more we know about
the mountains the better we
shall enjoy them, took the
place of the regular annual
outing. It was held at the
Glacier Gorge—Loch Vale
junction in Rocky Mountain
National Park — the latter
part of July and the first
week of August. The follow-
ing types of trips were of-
fered almost daily: regular
climbing trip, nature explor-
ation trip, difficult climbing
trip, and climbing instruction
trip. One may sum it up by
saying that all of these types
of trips were popular. A
common campfire in the eve-
nings gave an opportunity

.for singing, skits, informa-

39

40 WITH THE COLORADO .lIOUNTAIN CLUB

tional talks, and plenty of good fellowship. Be-
sides several club members who are experts in
different fields, University professors and Na-
tional Park Service men gave much appreciated
help. So successful was this form of outing that
another inexpensive camp is being planned along

similar lines for
July 20-28 this
coming sum-
mer. It may be
held either at
Long Lake or
at Crater Lake.
For October, a
three weeks bus
trip is being
planned to old
Mexico to climb
Mexico’s three
big peaks and
to see the
sights.
Another in-
novamon of
last year was
the Nature En-
joyment Camp
held in June by
the \Valsenburg
group at Cu-
charas Camp in
the mountains
of southern
Colorado. This
camp was con-
cerned mainly
with learning
about nature,
and with meth-
ods of leading
others in nature interests. A
morning hike, an afternoon of
games and teaching methods,
and an evening campfire pro-
gram consisting of a lecture
on some phase of natural history together with
songs and stories made up the usual daily pro—
gram. This camp will be repeated this summer
from June 10-16 and it will not be restricted to
members. In fact, it is offered as an inexpensive
opportunity for interested teachers whose appli-
cations are accepted to re-create health and spirit
before starting summer school. 'iy such activities

 

Lone Eagle or Lindbergh Peak across
Crater Lake—the possible site of the
Club's I940 School of Mountaineering

the Colorado Mountain Club is growing in prac-
tical demonstration of the recreational opportuni—
ties of the great out of doors.

An article in Trail and Timberline for August,

1039, reports that in addition to the full-time regis—
tran ts t h e r e

were many who
attended the
Nature Enjoy-
ment Camp for
short periods.
The daytime
sessions were
attended by sev-
enty-eight in-
dividuals, some
of them over
seventy years
of age. Forty
different peo-
ple received
certihcates for
attending five
or more of the
daytime ses-
sions of the
camp,and many
others came to
the programs
in the evening.
There were
r e g i st r a n t s
from six states
besides Colo-
rado, and from
nine communi-
ties in the state
itself.

Among the
activities which proved to be
of special interest were the
tree and shrub hikes, a beaver
watch party, a treasure hunt,
the early morning bird walks,
and the experiments in outdoor cooking. Leaders
at the Camp observed and listed one hundred and
twenty-eight kinds of plants in blossom, fifty
varieties of trees and shrubs, thirty-seven different
kinds of birds, and seventeen kinds'of wild mam—
mals. Many were the ideas and bits of informa-
tion carried away by those who participated in
the happy activities of the Camp.

Courtesy Colontdo Mountain Club

 

HEN THE EARLY settlers came west over the

Allegheny Mountains, the Indian trails led

them to a point where two rivers joined to
form a third. There they looked upon hillsides
covered with green forests abounding in game,
and rivers and streams tilled with iish—nature at
its best. Soon a settlement sprang up where the
Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers met to form
the Ohio, a town destined to be called the “Work-
shop of the World.” The three rivers, plus rich
coal deposits, led to the rapid growth of Pitts-
burgh. Much of this growth was accomplished
at the expense of the natural resources which
were so plentiful when Pittsburgh was hrst
settled. Because the natural resources were so
abundant people .spent this heritage easily with-
out the foresight that characterized certain of
Pittsburgh’s early naturalists. It is interesting
to recall the story of Jonathan Chapman, better
known as Johnny Appleseed. This early (1775-
1847) itinerant naturalist saw ahead to the time
when the cutting of trees would exhaust the
forest and a spring would come when children
would no longer be able to see and smell the
fragrant apple blossom.

This unusual character devoted his life to the
practicing and preaching of conservation, a life
which has borne fruit. As we record the develop-
ment of Pittsburgh, other names appear on the
roll as naturalists. To the list should be added
those foresighted individuals who
gave to a growing city tracts of
land to be used as 'parks. Whether
consciously or unconsciously,
these people were following the
footsteps of Pittsburgh’s first

Mr. Black is resident naturalist
in Frick Park in Pittsburgh. and
Mr. Steck occupies the position
of Nature Education Supervisor.
in the city's Bureau of Parks.

Nature Education

in the
Pittsburgh Parks

By
ROY BLACK and J. R. STECK

naturalist, Johnny Appleseed. These park areas
are today the only remnants to remind us of what
our early ancestors looked upon from the point.
They are oasis in an industrial city whose river
banks are lined with mills belching forth black
smoke into the air. '

Today in Pittsburgh there are 1971 acres of
field and woods set aside as public parks. They
are, scattered throughout the entire city with a
major park of over 350 acres in each section. To
this group we might add a tifth park on the South
Side of about a hundred acres. These parks are
characterized by wooded hillsides and valleys suit-
able for abundant plant and animal life. There are
facilities for picnicking and physical recreation,
for the most part so located that they do not in-
terfere with the more natural areas of the parks.
In recent years increased leisure time has placed
a heavy burden on the parks, with use resulting
in abuse. Park recreation facilities, trees, shrubs,
flowers, and wildlife suffered alike. The public
did not understand just how much this destruction
meant to each individual park user. How Was the
Park Department to cope with such a situation?
One obvious answer was to educate the public.

Educating the Public

In the fall of 1933 the Emergency Education
Council sponsored an experimental adult program
of nature lectures and field trips in the vicinity of
Frick Park. The program was
an immediate success, and the
following spring those who had
attended regularly organized to
assist in planning future pro-
grams and in spreading the doc-

41

42 NATURE EDUCATION IN THE PITTSBURGH PARKS

trine of the conservation of nature’s beauty. The
schools at the edge of the park began to partici-
pate in the program by planning field trips and
nature lectures. This new idea grew rapidly’ and
had a remarkable effect on the way the community
used Frick Park. Realizing that the value of this
park appreciation should be spread throughout all
parks, the City Park authorities and members of
the Science Department of the Board of Educa-
tion planned a park appreciation program to be
taught in the nature classes of the city schools.

Just how was the proper use and respect of
parks to be taught? Under the direction of a
nature photographer a series of 16 m.m. motion
pictures were filmed on park trees, wildflowers,
birds, animals and activities. These pictures,
shown by park representatives, were used to
arouse student interest with the aim of planning
field trips in the parks to further the teaching of
this new appreciation.

The teachers received this new program with
enthusiasm, and soon the demands for talks and
field trips had increased to such a degree that the
need for specially trained men to carry on the
program was apparent. In the fall of 1935 the
first naturalist was added at Frick Park; he was
soon followed by a naturalist at Riverview Park
and later another at Schenley Park. With a staff
of trained men the nature education program grew
rapidly. I

The major duty of the park naturalist is the co-
operative work with the schools. New subject
material is constantly being added to the film
library and the use of color has improved the
teaching value of these films. Recently the nature
staff has experimented with the use of the new
35 m.m. slides. Where motion is not a necessity,
and where natural color is desirable, these new
slides are proving their worth. The first trip is
still the most valued teaching aid, and each year
more teachers are bringing their classes into the
parks. During the last few years the school pro-

gram has extended to parochial and private
schools, as well as suburban schools. This pro-
gram with the youth of the community does not
stop with schools. The park naturalists are called
on to assist with the nature program of the Boy
and Girl Scouts and other youth groups interested
in the out-of—doors. During the vacation months,
with such organizations conducting day camp
groups in the city parks, the naturalists were given
an ideal opportunity to further conservation.
These contacts were especially valuable because

more time could be given to the program and the
contacts made more personal.

With a well-balanced youth program, the next
step was to interest the adult population. F ollow-
ing the example of the original program in Frick
Park, each naturalist conducts Sunday morning
nature walks in the three major parks. These
walks are general in nature and planned for the
average park visitor. Because nature buildings
were available in F rick and Riverview Parks, the
adult program developed more rapidly. Guest
lectures were invited to give talks on natural sci-
ence and travel. These talks have proven them—
selves to be very p0pular. In Frick Park, under
the sponsorship of the Frick Park Naturalist
Society, a weekly program of lectures and social'
activity has been successful. Lecture demands by
the parent teachers associations, garden clubs,
civic groups, and other organizations have given
the naturalists splendid opportunities to spread the
doctrine of park appreciation.

Nature Buildings

In Frick Park two buildings have been devoted
to the nature program. The F ern Hollow Cabin
is used as a meeting place for nature hikers and
for summer lecture programs. The Nature Mu—
seum on Beechwood Boulevard houses museum
displays with a lecture hall, and is also the resi—
dence of the naturalist. Outside the building is a
collection of native Western Pennsylvania animal
life.

In Riverview Park the headquarters for the
nature activities are located in the. Wissahickon
Nature Museum. This building is ideally located
and suited for this purpose. Living and mounted
nature displays, as well as ample room for lecture
facilities, are available. Surrounding the Museum
is a wildfiower garden planted with native \Nest—
ern Pennsylvania plants.

In Schenley Park an old historical log cabin
has recently been reconstructed and will serve as
headquarters for the Schenley Park naturalist.
The establishment of a nature building in each
park is very desirable, not only for the adult pro—
gram but for youth groups as well.

Trailside Museums

A very popular part of the nature program cen-
tors in the Frick and Riverview Trailside Muse-

ums. These buildings are not museums in the
strict sense of the word and should be regarded

(Continued on page 54)

The Nature Program at Oglebay Park

progressed far beyond the stages of learn-

ing anything from casual field trips are
taught the finer principles of nature in the annual
Nature Leaders Training School. Those who
want to meet together and discuss the latest find—
ings are encouraged to do so in hobby clubs which
proceed somewhat on their own initiative. Of
these, three are active, The Brooks Bird Club, the
Oglebay Plant Club, and the Wheeling Amateur
Astronomy Club.

Teachers are assisted by the publication of
nature pamphlets and by the personal cooperation
and advice of the naturalist and his assistant,
Charles K. Peck. This assistance is also available
for any group whose program includes nature. It
ranges from personaladvice and help with plan-
ning exhibits to the leading of special nature field
trips.

Grade school students, high school students,
and adults newly interested in nature may receive
a rather complete back-
ground knowledge of na-
ture from attendance in
the winter series of nature
classes held twice weekly
at the Institute Downtown
Center. These classes, con—
sisting of about thirty-
five meetings, cover varied
phases of nature study.

Of greatest public ap-
peal are the nature field
trips. These “bird-walks,”
as they are popularly call—
ed, are held each Sunday
morning at 7 :00 o’clock
during the summer, and at
2:30 P. M. in the winter

aMATEUR AND PROFESSIONAL experts who have

Even the much-shunned

skunk comes in for a
share of attention at

Oglebay Park's Trail-

side Nature M useum!

The nature program of Oglebay Institute,
developed over a period of ten years by
A. B. Brooks, Institute Naturalistl and
his associates, is designed to reach as
many people as possible of different age
groups and varying interests in nature.

By JOSEPH E. HOFFMANN
Publicity Staff Member

months. The charm of the early morning air, and
the walk through the clean bright woods with an
open—air breakfast waiting at the end of the trail
bring out many who are not nature enthusiasts
but who only have a respect for the out of doors.
These very people often develop into the most-
ardent of the nature trailers. Following the win—
ter afternoon walks, informal discussions are held
around a roaring open fire in one of the Oglebay
Park log cabins. Coffee and popcorn are served.

 

44 THE NATURE PROGRAM AT OGLEBAY PARK

Attendance of sum-
mer walks varies
from fifty to two
hundred and fifty
persons, and winter
walks average
around thirty.

The ten miles of
nature trails in
Oglebay Park are
kept in excellent
condition. Anature
guide booklet has
been prepared and is
available for those
who wish to ex-
plore the trails
alone, following
numbered labels through the

Another feature of popular
public interest is the Oglebay telescope. An eight-
inch refiector telescope was built by members of
the Oglebay Amateur Astronomy Club and pre-
sented to the Park for installation on one of its
highest hills. Weather permitting, members of
the club, volunteers, and Institute staff members
are on hand for weekly telesc0pe nights. These
nights usually occur on Saturdays after the pub—
lic campfires, unless some event of astronomical
importance warrants “special” observation.

The campfire programs, usually built around
nature themes, feature community singing, speak-
ers, movies on nature subjects, slides, readings
and similar entertainment.

The Oglebay Aboretum, still in the planning
stage, comprises one hundred acres of sloping
hills and valleys that have been set aside for a
garden of trees and shrubs. This is to be another
important addition to the
Oglebay Nature program.
Definite steps include the
organization of an arbo-
retum committee, pur-
chase of planting stock,
and cooperative efforts of
the Wheeling Park Com-
mission and Oglebay In-
stitute for the employ-
ment of a landscape archi—
tcct and an arboretum
expert.

The lecture series spon-

 

Hikers on a nature trail in Oglebay
hills, . Park come upon a wood thrush's nest

"It we were asked just what birds mean to usI
many of us would say that they mean the free-
dom of open spaces—wide skies and untouched
torest depths. Others would remember the rap-
ture of the dawn chorus. or the simpler but
equally moving beauty of the everyday songs
and calls of the birds they have known from
childhood. . . .To nearly everybody birds mean
something beyond and outside themselves' a
part of the mystery and poetry of nature. and
so we need not wonder that from the earliest
ages birds have had their place in myths and
in religions in various parts of the world."—

Margaret M cKenny in Birds in the Garden.

sored by the Nature
Department usually
occur during the
winter months. Ap—
pearing on these
programs are ex-
plorers, travelers,
and authorities in
field of nature lore.

The 1940 session
of the Nature Lead-
ers Training School
will be held June
12 to July 10. Two
weeks of the 'ses-
sion will be held at
Oglebay Park,
studying Carolinian
Life Zone forms, and two
weeks on Lake Terra Alta,
West Virginia, where the alti-
tude makes available to students the plants and
animals of the upper Alleghenian and Canadian
life zones. Recognition of the school this year
provides for the accrediting of courses in field
biology by the W’ est Virginia University. Students
qualifying for credit must enroll for the full term.
Those not desiring credit may enroll for full or'
part time.

The best instruction possible is provided the
students. Twenty-five experts are brought to the
camp to teach at least one class in their specialized
subject. Eleven of these men will be at the camp
part time. A staff of four will be on full-time
duty. These will be A. B. Brooks, School Di-
rector; Charles K. Peck, assistant natUralist; Col.
Robert P. Carroll, Botanist at the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, Lexington, and Dr. John C. John-
son, zoologist, \Vest Ch’ester, Pennsylvania.

Another phase of co-
operation will begin this
spring when the Ohio
County Board of Educa-
tion and the Wheeling
Garden Center sponsor a
school gardening project
modeled along the lines of
the established Cleveland
school gardens. The Na-
ture Department of Ogle-
bay Institute and Oglebay
Park will serve as advis-
ors in this project. I

 

ll HESE THINGS are real. You can’t find them in
books. We found it out ourselves—out-
doors,” said our small host, pointing with

pride to some charts which were part of an exhibit.

It is about such “real” nature study that this
article is concerned. Observing how living plants
and animals live and depend on each other makes

a very different and much more challenging and

interesting type of nature study than the passive

second-hand variety gleaned from picture books.
Let’s take an adventure hike! Let’s go‘explor-
ing! Let’s make discoveries! Such invitations as
these tend to engender the kind of attitude to-
wards a field trip that can make everything fun
and interesting. It also permits the field trips to
be easily adapted to whatever situation chances to
be at hand. Nature study needs to be opportune.

No one can predict what may be seen next: a

spider may be building its web or snaring its

luncheon; the ants may be holding a wedding; a

Robin may be putting on its raincoat—its over-

coat; a grasshopper may make a tremendous leap

or spit “tobacco”; a dower may be opening; one
might find the handsomest bug, 'the ugliest, the

largest, the smallest; or one might discover a

bird’s nest or a mouse nest.

Such things may be the
find of a lifetime and very
likely will be the first sight
of its kind for many in the
group. There is always some-
thing new to be seen when
living things are observed,
however, often similar ob-

The I940 sessions of the Audubon Nature
Camp will be held on the following dates:
June I4-I7; June 28-July ll; July l2-25;
August 2-I5; August I6-29. .Detailed in-
formation regarding the CampI the Junior
Clubs, and the educational literature is-
sued is available trom Department J,
National Association of Audubon Socie-

ties, |006 Fifth AvenueI New York City.

By DOROTHY A. TREAT
Junior Club Secretary

National Association of Audubon Societies

servations may have been made before. Time
should be taken to watch and enjoy these events
and discoveries.

Adventures may be had in one’s own house, the
,backyard, a vacant lot, a city block. Many forms
of life reside close by although often they are un-
observed unless one looks for them. It is unnec—
essary to journey long distances to observe events
in the out of doors.

No plant or animal can live all by itself. It
lives with and because of other plants and ani-
mals—its neighbors or predecessors. Observing
and discussing how the out of doors is all linked
together provides an inexhaustible storehouse of
interesting and surprising matters.

To those leaders who do have great enthusiasm
for the out of doors and curiosity about the things
they hnd there, but terror in the thought that
they do not know names of the animals, the fol-
lowing remedy is suggested for that inevitable
question “\Vhat’s this?” Remember that no one
person knows the names of all the varied things
to be seen out of doors and that many of these
things do not have'common names anyway. Most
common names were invented by amateur observ-
ers. Let the group together
make up a good descriptive
name to use as a temporary
name. Later try to find the
real name. This method will
serve to sustain the interest
which prompted the initial
question.

To awaken and .develop

45

46 LET’S GO EXPLORING !

interest in one’s own environment serves two ends.
It creates for the individual a healthy and enter—
taining hobby which can be carried on anywhere.
It fosters a desire to protect and to use our. nat-
ural environment in such a way that we shall
always have it and this is Conservation.

Junior Audubon Clubs

In the interest of conservation, the National
Association of Audubon Societies has for the past
twenty-nine years been sponsoring Junior Audu—
bon Clubs throughout North America. These
clubs consist of ten or more children of any age
banded together for the purpose of exploring the
out of doors. Their program is of their own
making, according to their age and ability, their
geographic location and the interest of the adult
advisor.

Each child in a Junior Audubon Club pays ten
cents a year club dues, which is forwarded to the
National Association of Audubon Societies, and
receives in return a bird button, and six four—
page leaflets with color plates and outline draw-
ings for coloring. Although the leaflets are about
birds, they tell how the bird lives and relates the
bird to its environment. Over five and a half
million children have been enrolled in these clubs.
By way of maintaining contact with the clubs, a
four page children’s paper, largely written by the
children, is sent every club four times each school
year. Larger clubs of twenty—five or more mem-
bers also receive the magazine, Bird-Lore. A
special endowment enables the Association to sup-
ply these materials.

As an aid to teachers and recreational leaders
helping with these clubs, special pamphlets have
been prepared on such subjects as feeding birds,
birdhouses, forests, grasslands, water and how
wildlife depends on it, soil and how life depends
on it, nature trails, small museums, building a
nature interest, correlation of nature program
with school work and others.

The Audubon Nature Camp

To help teachers and leaders go exploring, the
Audubon Nature Camp for adult leaders was
established four years ago at Muscongus Bay in
Maine. The camp is conducted at cost by the
National Association of Audubon Societies for
the purpose of promoting conservation through
special training of teachers and recreational lead-
ers in outdoor nature study. The camp is located
on an island comprising 330 acres of virgin spruce

forest known as the Todd Wildlife Sanctuary.
The wooded island, the fascinating marine life
along its shores, the hardwood‘ forest, meadows,
ponds, streams, marshes, farms on the nearby
mainland, and many outlying islands with their
interesting colonies of nesting sea birds, provide
unusual opportunity for observing living plants
and animals in a variety of natural habitats.

Campers spend two weeks or more exploring in
small groups different types of natural environ-
ment. All campers have in common a keen inter-
est in natural history. Some may already have
studied considerably in the field of biology. Some
have never studied biology at all, but when the
emphasis is placed on observation of living things,
one’s previous knowledge is not an essential.

In addition to experience in outdoor observation
it is the purpose of the camp to provide practical
suggestions for nature study in schools, clubs and
camps and to help adapt these to each camper’s
needs through individual conferences between
staff and campers. Persons from thirty-four

.states and four Canadian provinces have attended

the camp during the past four seasons.

The outdoor begins just outside the window—
let’s have adventures-—let’s go exploring—any
place at all.

 

“Nature is an exciting, adventurous journey of
discovery into the world of plants and animals,
rocks and minerals, the weather and the sky. Its
expeditions and explorations disclose the interest-
ing and important things about blades of grass,
spider webs, hawks, paving stones, eroded hill-
sides, flight of birds, the majesty of the night sky.
With ‘watch living things live’ as a password to
nature, eyes are open wider on field trips, gardens
are planted, and experiments with seeds and seed-
lings; trees are adopted, and caterpillars, polly-
wogs, pet dogs, or any one of a thousand other
living things are watched.

“Nature asks more than that the adventurer
bring home ‘specimens,’ learn ten trees, dissect an
animal, or make a blue print. It gathers many
varied experiences together to create a feeling of
enjoyment and ‘at-homeness’ in the out of doors;
it fosters growing hobby interests and finds room
for wonder and enthusiasm, the spirit of adven-
ture, and a spontaneous delight in discovery. It
would reveal something of the order, bigness,
complexity and majesty of the world of nature to
those who adventure in it.”—From Adventuring
in Nature, by Betty Price.

Vocations tor Nature Recreation Leaders

HEN MRS. VINAL and

I drove to the Twenty-

fourth National Rec-
reation Congress in Boston
last October, we crowded
three recreation students on
the back seat. Although the
three were going forth on
the same adventure, I was
impressed by the fact that
each student was an indi-
vidual. That, in itself, would
be a commonplace discovery
were it not for the fact that one might teach, even
for a lifetime, as though mass education were the
only road to intellectual salvation. These conHict-
ing ideologies of the individual versus the mass
involve basically the same combat that is waging
between democracy and totalitarianism. On the
one hand we hear such words as freedom and in-
dividuality and on the other security and collec-
tivism. Significantly, the theme of the Recreation
Congress was “Recreation—and the American
Way of Life.”

A brief analysis of each student may be pre—_

sented as material evidence of the general con- '

clusions just stated. It will be obvious why names
are not used. One is an Eagle Scout and a camp
leader of considerable experience. He decided to
major in Botany and discovered that advanced
courses which he took were largely pathology. He
changed his major to recreation. He is managing
editor of the campus paper and is in line to be-
come editor. This student knows where he is go-
ing. He is bent on becoming a journalist in
recreation. Whether. this future job or profession
will be in a newspaper office or in a recreation
department does not matter. He. believes that by
ability and service one may create a job. His
advisors have the same philosophy.

The girl student of the trio is another illustra-
tion of “as the twig is bent.” She has a nine-year
perfect attendance record at the Pittslield Girl’s
League, volunteered as a worker in the Children’s
Department of the Berkshire Museum, and has
been a camp counselor. She plans to be a natural—
ist in a children’s museum.

The second young man is a major in economics
but is exploring the course in “Public Relation in

By WILLIAM G. VINAL
Director. Nature Guide School
Massachusetts State College

A pioneer himselt in the Field
of nature recreation, Dr. Vinal
considers the problem ot leader-
ship in this new protession and
tells ot ten‘ young people who
are occupying unusual positions

Recreational Planning” as a
side line. He desires to en-
ter business, but he will be
a more useful member of
society if he realizes the
need and problems of pub-
lic recreation.
At the conference I met
a former Nature Guide
School student who is a
priest by training. I recall
that while he was a student
he was studying the psy—
chology of birds. When he let it be known that
he was going afield all the youngsters would fol—
low him. He has been given time from his church
duties to serve as a state naturalist. Is it not true
that one’s nature hobby may become his profession?
Perhaps the most classic example of a nature-
minded individual who couldn’t be deviated from
the straight but narrow trail was a certain young
man in the Chicago Recreation Department. He
was about to be fired for inefficiency. As a last
resort he was allowed to try his “absurd idea” of
directing a bird sanctuary within the city limits.
Twenty acres were set aside. Today he has more
visitors with loaves of bread to feed migratory
wild fowl on a Sunday morning than he had in
the audience when he dedicated the sanctuary.
By inherent interest, by the fortune of training,
by native. ability, by willing service, each of these
individuals is evolving a profession in nature
leadership. In no case is the financial measuring
stick being applied to the proposed career. Most
college curricula do not show such a route. How—
ever, these goals would probably not be obtained
without college science training. It is more than
significant in these days of educational panaceas,
plus the penalties of tightening purse strings, and
the conscientious desire on the part of the students
to discover a niche in this changing civilization,
that we analyze the aims and technique of leader-
ship training. We must also be prepared to
answer the questions—“How long does it take to
prepare?” “Where does the training take one?”
The National Recreation Association may be
said to have undertaken the promotion of nature
recreation in September I935. The activity was
then placed on an equal footing with draniatics,

47

48 VOCATIONS FOR NATURE RECREATION LEADERS

music, and handcraft, and courses were given all
over the country in nature leadership. That the
Society of Recreation \Vorkers of America at the
ioston Meeting unanimously voted to give special
attention to nature activities during the coming
year indicates the growing interest in this field.

The new opportunities which are reshaping the
thinking of students of today will inevitably leave
their impression upon the college curriculum. In
this connection I am describing some new fields
of nature recreation that were entered as recently
as last summer. In these instances I will use
names.

Bob Cole in 1939 received appointment as park
nature guide at the Mount Tom Reservation on
the Connecticut River. According to Edward L.
Bike, recreation director of the New England

Division, National Park Service, this was a demon- '

stration experiment for the East which might be
duplicated in many state forests. The first council
fire was lighted on Memorial Day evening May
30. 1939. Besides being responsible for a camp
fire each Sunday night for the-next four months,
Bob Cole maintained a self-guiding nature trail
and led nature hikes at regular intervals. The
year’s total visitors to the reservation exceeded
200,000 and Hampden County Commissioner,
Charles W. Bray, Chairman of the Mount Tom
Reservation Commission, hopes to make this kind
of service available throughout the year.

The day after completing his work at Mount
Tom, Bob Cole was to be found at the N orthfield
Inn as hotel nature guide and instructor in winter
sports. It is interesting to note that one of the
leading New England hotels has placed nature
recreation alongside of golf, boating, and winter
'sports as a service to its guests. Other hotels are
watching the experiment with keen interest.

Elliot Wilson, in 1939, was geologist-naturalist
on a trek for boys to the American Southwest.
The expedition was commissioned by the In-
dianapolis Children’s Museum and the American
Museum of Natural History of New York City.
Each boy joining the expedition had a special in—
terest in some phase of natural history such as
rocks, reptiles or Indians. The expedition was an
auto-caravan trip with a base camp known as
Cotton—VVood Gulch, in the Zuni Mountains of
New Mexico. The Log of the Expedition is a
collection of notes and photographs by the boys.
It has the freshness of approach that we look for
in the travels of a Marco P010, or a Darwin, or a
Beebe, or an Admiral Byrd. Exploring cliff dwell-

ings, Aztec ruins, fossil clay beds, old Spanish
Missions, or Carlsbad Caverns, are forms of na—
ture experience outside the textbook. El Wilson
considered his summer’s experience more enrich-
ing and more meaningful than a year at college.
He will return as a guide to the fifteenth expedi-
tion to be held in 1940. And undoubtedly that fall
he will thread another bead to his chain of under-
standing. Once infected with the germ of nature
leadership—always infected!

In June of 1939, Frank Kingsbury and Bill
Nutting started on a trek with a Conserva—
tion Truck which was a pullman, diner and
museum in one. They visited camps and county
fairs throughout the Commonwealth. When at
camps they conducted naturehikes, gave talks,
held conferences, and between times opened up
the traveling treasure-chest for interested visitors.
The project was financed by the Massachusetts
Conservation Council through the sale of Wildlife
Poster Stamps issued by the National Wildlife
Federation. As itinerant conservation preachers
they covered some 3,000 miles and about fifty or—
ganizations. The journeying will be resumed in
1940.

Leslie Clark was chosen as camp pioneer nature
man at Hi-Catoctin Camp, which is provided for '
Federal employees and their families. The camp
is located in the Catoctin Mountains, Maryland,
and is operated by the Federal Camp Council, an
organization representing government welfare,
recreational and employees’ organizations. Besides
bird and rock lore hikes the families had talks,
forums, and studied forests, scenic beauty and
constellations. The group consisted of various age
levels and interests.

To conclude: Educators cannot but believe in
nature recreation. The youth leaders of America
can and will enjoy the fuller life that nature rec-
reation will point out. Capable leadership is
needed to provide the enthusiasm and skills of
nature recreation. The only way to learn to lead
is by leading, which implies a willingness and de—

- . sirability to serve others. There must be an un-

selfish capacity for friendship. There must be a
scientific attitude toward the problems of leader—
ship. The spirit of adventure, outdoor “poise”
(ability to fit into outdoor moods), a ready com—
mand of English, broad natural history knowledge,
and likeable personality are also common denomi—
nators. Given these things, with opportunity, and
the born nature guide will possess the fruits that
have been enthroned within his heart.

WORLD AT PLAY

IN THE April, 1939
issue of Recreation an
article was published
telling of the Science
Clubs at Elizabeth Peabody House in Boston. On
February 24 and 25, 1940 these. young scientists
from seven to eighteen years of age demonstrated
at their sixth annual Science Fair at Elizabeth
Peabody House many homemade inventions con‘
structed mainly from home and laboratory scrap
materials. The exhibits were divided into three
groups—biological sciences, physical sciences, and
engineering. Emphasis was placed on the rela-
tionship of these fields of science to daily life.
Materials from industrial, scientific, and govern-
mental agencies were utilized as aids in scientific
instruction. The I 50 boys and girls who made the
exhibits were on hand to demonstrate them. The
exhibits included working models of the- Panama
Canal, a wind tunnel which tests model air-
planes, a demonstration of soilless agriculture by
a fifteen year old boy, and other interesting proj—
ects. As a result of last year’s fair, fifty—three
boys were invited to exhibit their projects in the
Junior Science Hall of the New York World’s

Fair.

Young Scientists
Hold Exhibit

THE Los ANGELES
City School District
has issued a booklet
entitled “Science Hob-
bies, a Teacher’s Guide for Junior High Schools,”
intended for the use of the teacher in stimulating
hobbies and providing the necessary source ma-
terials. It was prepared by a committee of teach-
ers in the Los Angeles schools. The booklet con-
tains an exhaustive list of science hobbies and de-
scribes twenty—two of them, giving in each case
sources of printed materials which. would be help-
ful' to interested students. The descriptions in-
clude hobbies connected with gardening, trees,
flowers, insects, minerals, stars, pets, and birds.

Science Hobbies
in Schools

IN THE FALL of 1937,
at the request of sev-
eral boys in South
Bend, Indiana, a taxi—
dermy club was organized. The primary object of
the club was to interest the boys in the various

Taxidermy Club
Popular

phases of animal life and to teach them to pre-
serve rather than destroy it. Since that time the
club has grown from eight to thirty members.
Nature study hikes are conducted and different
species of animals and insects are captured. They
are brought to the center and the members, who
are quite skilled, mount them.

IN OCTOBER, 1936, the
conservation editor of
the Detroit, Michigan,
News proposed the
organization of hiking groups throughout the city
and announced a hike through 'Rouge Park for
anyone who cared to come. He expected about
one hundred to turn out, but more than 2,100
came. Immediately five permanent hiking- groups
were formed. Health and exercise is stressed, but
the hikers visit historic sites; they study birds,
trees, and Howers; they trace shore lines of pre-
historic lakes and pick up rock containing fossils;
and they make friends. Since the first hike three
years ago, the enthusiasm of the hikers has in-
creased; and in the place of the original five
groups, there are now thirty-nine groups of De—
troit people who participate in these Sunday after-
noon hikes.

Hiking Groups
in Detroit

 

 

WHILE the North pro-
vides the setting for
outdoor and indoor ice
and snow sports, the
forests of the South supply materials which go
into the manufacture of skis, toboggans, sleds, and
hockey sticks while an introduced grass, the bam-
boo, furnishes the ski sticks. Southern hickory,
ash, and pine are used in the manufacture of skis,
and one of the large ski factories is in the South.
Selected hickory and ash logs are exported from
South Atlantic and Gulf ports to a number of
European countries to be used in the manufacture
of ski equipment.

South Contributes to
Winter Sports

THE Long Beach,
California, Fly and
Bait Casting Club last
year participated in a
novel inter-club contest. Officials arranged a
match with the San Francisco club, and the mem-

49

Fishing at Long
Distance

50 WORLD AT PLAY

It was the year 1875 or thereabouts, and Father
went to school. He was all there then, but half

of him was ignored.

Father wanted to draw pictures and make and
do things. He craved self-expression. But his
teachers said that was foolishness and a waste
of time. Instead of developing that half of
Father, instead of showing him how to use the
knowledge he was acquiring in order that he
would retain that knowledge and become a well-
rounded, whole personality, they ignored that
half of him. So, little by little, that half of
Father disappeared until he was only half there.

iii-iii!-

physical and mental development of the young,
realize the importance of developing the whole
child. “Activities” is the word they use to
denote the application of knowledge to experi-
ence. Activities catch and hold the child’s in-
terest, give him an outlet for his desire to do
things, enable him to learn by doing.

‘3‘...

These teachers and leaders will find JUNIOR
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES of inestimable value
in their work with children. JUNIOR ARTS
AND ACTIVITIES is designed and written,
published monthly except July and August, with
the express purpose of helping today’s teachers
make their teaching most eHective.

Subscription. .. .$2.00 year year
Single copy price . . . . . . . .  .30

*

Junior Arts and Activities

740 Rush Street - - - Chicago. Illinois

LOEOI=IOEOI=IOEOJ

o O
n I]
o H
u 0
E i
u 0
E i
(“a O
E i
u a i O
n Today, teachers and others in charge of the n
o H
("3 O
E i
H O
E i
H O
E i
u 0
E E

bers of each club used- their own local casting
pools. Short-wave operators in Long Beach and
in San Francisco broadcast results after each cast-
ing attempt, and although the competing anglers
were live hundred miles apart, the contest was
carried on as if it had been conducted at a single

pooL

Learning About the Stars—“Field nights”
after playground hours, conducted with the aid
of the Royal Astronomical Society, gave the chil-
dren on Hamilton, Ontario, playgrounds a special
opportunity to learn about the stars. In its annual
report the Playground Commission concludes that
the interest evinced by the children warrants con-
tinuing the classes next season.

Garden and Flower Courses at the West-
chester Workshop—The VVestchester Work-
shop in the county center, White Plains, New
York, announces two classes on gardens and
flowers under the direction of Mrs. Julia A. Lati-
mer, author of Inside M y Garden Gate. “Practi-
cal Gardening,” which began March 20th, will
meet two mornings a week. The hrst live lessons
will be given over to the problems of soil cultiva-
tion, planting and feeding the seeds, pruning, and
similar subjects. The last live will have to do with
the layout of the garden, what plants to use, and
where to use them. Garden consultation is in-
cluded in the course for advice of soil, layout, the
type of flowers and cultivation suitable to the
needs of each member of the class. Mrs. Latimer
will also give a series of six lecture demonstra-
tions on flower arrangements. This class, which
began March 19th, will hold two sessions a week.

The Library Journal Issues a Garden Number
“Recreation workers will be interested in know-
ing that the March 15th number of The Library
Journal is a garden issue containing much of in-
terest to recreation workers. Outstanding articles
include “Garden Books of the Past Twelve
Months,” by Elizabeth C. Hall; “The Amateur
Gardener’s Library,” by Sydney B. Mitchell;
“Books in a Gardening Community,” by Mrs.
Anne J. Rymer; and “A Children’s Garden in the
City,” by Ellen Eddy Shaw. One section is de-
voted to an illustrated presentation of selected
garden books, and here are listed new and stand-
ard titles appropriate for Garden Book Week,
April 1-6, 1940. The recreation director who is

WORLD AT PLAY 51

GROUP WORK INSTITUTE
June 3—15, 1940

Western Reserve University

0 A two weeks’ institute for experienced group workers

including credit courses in Principles of Group Work,
The Understanding of Individuals in Groups, and The
Analysis of Program Activities.

A bachelor’s degree from a college of approved stand-
ing is required for admission.

For information address

SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES

Western Reserve University Cleveland, Ohio

seeking to keep his library up to date on all phases
of recreation cannot afford to be without this issue.

The editorial and general offices of The Library
Journal, which is published semi-monthly from
September to June and monthly in July and
August, are at 62 west 45th Street, New York
City. Single copies may be secured at 25 cents
each.

More About National Music Week—In con-
nection with National Music Week to be cele-
brated this year from May 5th to 11th, Mr. C.
M. Tremaine, Secretary of the National Music
Week Committee, requests that recreation work-
ers planning to participate in any way be careful
in their notices to the press to make specific men-
tion of Music Week. There are, he suggests,.two
reasons for this. One is that if this is done the
clipping bureau will catch the items and the Com-
mittee will be in a better position to know to what
extent the week is being publicized. The second
reason, which is more important, is that recreation
workers will derive greater benefit by associating
their programs with the national observance at a
time when the country’s attention is focused to a

larger extent than usual upon the importance of
music to the individual and the community.

Recreation workers will find it helpful to secure

the material issued by the Committee at 30, Rocke-
feller Plaza, New York City.

Librarians Meet—The thirty-second annual
convention of the Special Libraries Association
will be held in Indianapolis, Indiana, June 3—6,
1940. “Utilization of Resources” will be the
theme of the convention program which will cen—

 

 For P'aygfound and __
€ Recreational Depa'tments 

  Complete Line of
air/T Eq0ipment for all Sports



'  P.GOLSWNITH 56:5; 

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

    
 
  
  
 
 
    
 
   
  

  

EAGLE

RIN GER
(Patented)

 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
  

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DHTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,

the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

0 Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
0 Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINE.

52

 
  

EVERWEAR Playground Apparatus,
Economy Playground Apparatus

EVERWEAR Swimming Pool Equipment
EVERWEAR Basketball Baokstops

 
     
   
   
 

Write for FREE Catalog No. 32

  
    
  

Address Dept. R

Ever Wear

Manufacturing Company

SPRINGFIELD, OHIO

  
     
    

ter about the association’s slogan, “Putting
Knowledge to Work.” A pre-conference trip to
southern Indiana parks has been planned for 1i-
brarians attending the American Library Associa—
tion Conference in Cincinnati the previous week,
as well as the Special Libraries Convention in
Indianapolis. Further information may be secured
from Miss Eleanor Howard, Federal Reserve
Bank, Cleveland, Ohio.

MITCHELL FOLD - 0 - LEG TABLES

Just the thing for
recreation rooms.
Easily and quickly
set up or talten
down. Inexpen-
sive. lifetime ser-
vice. Available in
variety of top
materials and
finishes.

     

 

    
    
 
      
 
    
 
 
     
    

Write for information concerning our complete line of Play-
ground Apparatus. Pool Equipment. Fold-O-Leg Tables. and
Folding Stands for Bands. Orchestra: and Choral Groups.

MITC'IIELL MFG. C0.

3034 W. FOREST HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE. WISC.

 
   
       

CHILDREN’S GARDENS

Children’s Gardens

” UR WREATH this month goes to the National

Recreation Association which has recently
set up a Garden Service to provide material and
technical help in the organizing and development
of children’s garden programs. Once a child
catches on to the fun of gardening, the habit is
apt to stick with him throughout life. Especially
is this work being carried on in neighborhoods
that apparently lacked space for gardens and
among people who have never been introduced to
the recreation possibilities of gardening. More
power to any movement that will make our wil-
derness slum lots and our waste places blossom
with the rose and cabbage!” '

This quotation from House and Garden, March
1940, refers to the service recently inaugurated by
the National Recreation Association which is de-
voted to the fostering of garden projects in the
hope that gardening opportunities may be afforded
to more and more people, especially children.

Recreation workers have long recognized the
important part that gardening plays in the leisure—
time activities of people. Its recreative value
under present industrial, social, and economic con—
ditions can scarcely be overestimated. But in
spite of the efforts of many organized groups to
increase the opportunities for gardening there are
still millions of people who, because they lack
space for a garden or because they have never
been introduced to the recreational possibilities of
gardening and the contribution it has to make to a
richer life, are denied the opportunity. It will.be
the function of the Association’s new service to .
lend support to groups now providing garden pro—
grams for children and adults and to give what
encouragement and guidance it can in organizing
new programs, training prospective leaders, and
furnishing program materials. The Association
is making available the services of a garden spe—
cialist to give assistance in organizing garden pro—
grams and in training leaders. Bulletins on chil-
dren’s gardens and, from time to time, printed
material will be published for distribution.

A garden manual entitled “Gardening—-—School,
Community, Home” prepared by the National
Recreation Association to indicate methods of or-
ganizing community garden programs is now
available. The manual discusses the place of
schools, parks, and recreation departments in de-
veloping children’s garden programs. It surveys
the place of other semi-public and private organi-

 

There’s no excuse for dust
when you can use

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET

I'I-IE MODERN DUST ALLAYER

 

{'ERE’S an ideal product for duSt allaying pur—

)oses on earth surfaces. Gulf Sani-Soil-Set —

  
 

another sensational development by Gulf’s re
search technologists — offers a practical solutior
to the dust problem on playgrounds, tenni:
courts, athletic fields, parking lots, etc.

One application of Gulf Sani-Soil-Set per sea-
son will usually do the job. Properly applied
it will not track or harm shoes or clothing.

Don’t let another season pass without getting

the beneht of this inexpensive dust allayer.

GULF OIL CORPORATION
GULF REFINING COMPANY

GULF BUILDING ' PITTSBURGH, PA.

_———————_-————_————————_—

GULF OIL CORPORATION ° GULF REFINING COMPANY
Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. R

Please send me without obligation a copy of the booklet “Gulf Sani-
Soil-Set for Treating Playgrounds.”

54 NATURE EDUCATION IN THE PITTSBURGH PARKS

zations which now carry on garden programs.
Ways in which all community forces may co-
oPerate in increasing opportunities for gardening

 

 

The American Citizen—

 

His Eharacter and Eitizenship

brings each month to its readers a story
of what community organizations, insti-
tutions, and agencies are doing — or
not doing —

To lay the foundation for good citizenship
To build good character .

To develop personality

To solve community problems

To safeguard democratic institutions

To improve family life

To promote recreation and good health

To encourage cooperative activities

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
      

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Char—
acter and Citizenship. It is of particular
value to:
School and Church Leaders

Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

Boy and Girl Scout Executives
Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities
Directors of Recreation

 
        
  

 
 

        
   
     
  

 
 

Dr. Francis L. Bacon. Principal of the Evanston,
Illinois, Township High School says. "The current
issue of your magazine came to my desk this
week. I carried it home and pleasantly, I believe
profitably. too, spent an evening reading the
entire contents.

 
   
       
 

"Permit me to express my appreciation of the
increasing value of this unique periodical. I could
ardently wish that every school library possess
one or more subscriptions. It would seem, too, that
civics and guidance teachers might well utilize
the magazine as reference material for students.

 
      
     
 

"The overview which your periodical gives to
the work of the various social agencies and the
emphasis afforded to the desirable coordination
of school and community social agencies consti-

tute a superior service. More power to your
efforts!"

 
       
     
 

Send your order to

THE AMERICAN CITIZEN

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

’_--"-----------

e
. '0 Please record my name as a sub-
o scriber to THE AMERICAN CITIZEN
o as checked below.

[I One year subscription at $2.00

 
     
       
      
    
   
 

NAME ............................................................................ ..

  
 

ADDRESS ........................................................................ ..

Cm .......................................... .. STATE .................... ..
N st. Rec.

    
 

 
   
    

experiences are also considered.

Last year Miss Frances Miner, on leave from
the Brooklyn Botanical Gardens, acted as Field
Secretary on Gardening for the National Recrea-
tion Association. During that period Miss Miner
gathered a great deal of material on existing chil-
dren’s gardens. This material has been studied
to determine the kind of effort most successful in
establishing gardening as recreation. Much of
this material has been incorporated in the manual.

Nature Education in the
Pittsburgh Parks

(Continued from page 42)

as covered nature trails. The displays are labeled
with information concerning the relationship of
man to that particular animal or plant, whether
beneficial or harmful. With rare exception all
displays concern nature materials native to the
park or the region. During the past few years
collections of living animal and plant life have
been added to supplement conventional types of
exhibits. Many of the animals are tame enOUgh
to be handled, thus adding to their teaching value.
Many visitors attracted into the parks for their
first visit by these museums have become enthusi-
astic in their interest in the parks.

Nature Trails and Wildlife Sanctuaries

' In addition to a well-organized adult and chil-
dren nature program the nature education staff
serves in other capacities. Many miles of nature
trails have been labeled for the convenience of the
park visitor and student. These labels have
aroused the interest of trail walkers and have
caused many to visit the museums and ask

questions.

Under the supervision of the naturalist, each of
the large parks has in part become a wildlife
sanctuary. Wildlife feeding has become a very
important phase of the naturalist’s duties and it
has resulted in a greatly increased bird and animal
population. Over a hundred different species of
birds have been reported in the three largest parks
in the city. The numbers have increased to such
an extent that people living on the edge of the
parks are reporting more birds are visiting their
backyards. Many a walker has been initiated into

SCHOOLS OF THE OUT OF DOORS 55

Schools of the Out of Doors

(Continued from page 22)
the spring recess. Courses olfered in nature games
and methods, bird-study, ilowers, trees, rocks,
land-forms, and insects and related animals. Tui-
tion: $12. Prof. P. Victor. Peterson, San Jose
State College, San Jose, California.

Pacific Union College Field Nature School. An
itinerant flEld school, with headquarters in Ang-
win. Four-week session, every even year, begin-
ning about the lirst of July. Course offered in
nature study methods combined with field experi-
ence in biology and ecology. Total cost: $60. Prof.
Harold W. Clark, Pacific Union College, Angwin,
Napa County, California. (Prof. Clark is also
director of the Walla l/Valla College Field Nature
School, an itinerant school with headquarters in
College Place, Washington, and which is con—
ducted every odd year.)

Santa Barbara School of Natural Science. Santa
Barbara, California. Two-week session, beginning
about the second week of August. Courses corre-
lated around the integral theme of conservation.
Tuition: $12. Prof. Harrington Wells, Santa Bar-
bara State College, Santa Barbara, California.

Nature Enioyment Camp. Cuchara Camps, La
Veta, Colorado. One-week session, beginning
about the second week of June. Course offered in
nature enjoyment. Total cost: $I I. Paul W.
Nesbit, Walsenburg, Colorado.

 

 

nature appreciation by a friendly squirrel who
begged for a hand-out.

It must be realized that this brief article is
merely a background and short sketch of the
Pittsburgh Bureau of Parks’ nature education
program. The most important duty of the natu-
ralist is the making of contacts with the youth of
the community. Through the medium of iield
trips boys and girls have been taught how to use
the parks. The adult program has interested many
people in nature as a hobby. Today, through the
work of the nature program, despite increased use
of the parks, the attitude of the public is improv-
ing—they use but do not abuse.

The Nature Program at Our Camp
(Continued from liege 13)
ivy and poison sumac, or leave our axe helve or
moccasins within reach of the porcupine, at our
own risk. These things we can rightly expect our
campers to learn if they wish to. adventure forth
on wilderness trips.

UNI—GOAL

Here is your answer to the outdoor bas-
ketball problem.

It is inexpensive, requires little space,
and provides a type of recreation that is
' popular with almost every boy or girl.

For particulars, write
SCHUTT MANUFACTURING COMPANY

W. Union Avenue Litchlield, Illinois

 

Of course, there are many‘ “methods” which
can aid us in introducing our camper to the nat-
ural world round about. There are nature crafts
and nature games, nature trails and nature gar-
dens, vivaria and aquaria, museums and zoos. But
we must be careful not to let the method obscure
the objective! Making a iire—by-friction set can
be only a woodworking project, or it can be a fas-
cinating adventure involving much nature knowl-
edge. We must have balsam fir or white cedar for
the {ire board and drill, a maple burl for the
socket, a yellow birch limb with just the right
curve for the bow, a buckskin thong for the bow
string, shredded cedar bark, line dry grass and
tissue thin birch bark for the tinder, and then
there is the magic of drawing forth fire from the
heart of the tree! '

The “scout report” as developed by that master
of woodcraft, Ernest Thompson Seton, is one of
the most effective methods of keeping everyone’s
eyes open and encouraging more accurate “see-
ing.” At the daily assembly or evening campfire,
we regularly devote a few minutes to “scout re-
ports.” Then any camper or counselor who has
observed some unusual nature happening reports
it. Much of the success of this technique depends,

50 RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS

 
   
  

Subscription
Price

$2.00 -

   

  

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARAETER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life
situations typical of the AmeriCan way of living
and working together.

f” §c hoof Activities

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

 
 
 

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING CO.

1515 LANE STREET - -

TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

 

of course, upon the skillful questioning or addi-
tional interpretation which the leader provides.

The Campers

In the final analysis, it is the children’s interests
and enthusiasms that determine the “nature pro-
gram.” Here we have treated of the staff and the
natural environment first only because they play
such a fundamental role in influencing the campers’
interests and enthusiasms.

Fortunate are we when children arrive at camp
with interests or hobbies that we can use. It makes
slight difference whether the interest is in fishing,
gardening, sketching, making lire-by—friction,
building lean-tos, stocking aquaria, keeping pets, or
playing Indian. Any of these will provide an Ex-
cellent foundation on which'to build a good nature
program for the individual, provided there is a
skillful, understanding counselor at hand to guide
these interests on and out into related fields.

Leaders sometimes become discouraged because
some children, confronted repeatedly with beauti-
ful sunsets, splendid vistas or starry nights, pass
on apparently unaware of them. It is the duty of
the leader to bring children into contact with the

interesting and beautiful in nature as often as p05-
sible and, without over-sentimentalizing, call it to
their attention. When this is done there comes a
time eventually when these phenomena suddenly
register. Grown up campers of former years often
make statements such as “Do you remember the
sunset we saw over Ragged Lake Mountain and
the way it was reflected from the lake as we hiked
back around Parson’s Knob? That was the first
time I ever saw a sunset I”

We want to build in our boys and girls an
understanding of the laws of nature. Eventually
we hope they will learn that love of country by a
good citizen means, among other things, coopera—
tion with an intelligent care of our forests and
grass lands, our soils and waters, our mountain-
sides and marshes, and of all that dwell therein.

 

Recreation in the National Forests
(Continued from raga 19)

need, low rent organization camps are being de-
veloped in the national forests. Such camps are
being designed for use by groups whose vacation
is made possible through public or organized aid,

RECREATION IN THE NATIONAL FORESTS I 57

and by Boy and Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, and
similar groups. In some forests, religious and
social welfare organizations with Forest Service
cooperation have already constructed and are
operating a number of similar camps.

The Ten Regions

To give the most effective service to the public
in the transaction of national forest business, the
country has been divided into ten regions, with
regional foresters in charge, under which are
grouped the national forests. Each national forest
has a supervisor. The forests are divided into
ranger districts which average nearly 300,000
acres, with a forest ranger in charge of each.

Those wishing to take advantage of the recrea—
tional opportunities of the national forests should
get in touch with one of the ten regional foresters
in the continental United States and Alaska. A
letter addressed to him will bring a prompt reply
to any questions about accommodations, seasons,
special regulations, state game laws, or any other
matters. Information concerning a certain section
of the country is available from the regional for-
ester who has jurisdiction over the national for-
ests in the state where the recreation is Planned.
The following is a list of the regional foresters’
addresses and the states in which their forests are
located. Those wishing general information may
address either the chief, Forest Service, U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., or
the Regional Forester at any of the following
locations:

Missoula, Montana—Montana, northern Idaho

Denver, Colorado — Colorado, Nebraska, Wyo-
ming, South Dakota.

Albuquerque, New Mexico — New Mexico,
Arizona.

Ogden, Utah—Utah, southern Idaho, Nevada, ex-
treme west Wyoming.

San Francisco, Cal. California.

Portland, Oregon—W’ashington, Oregon.

Washington, D. C.—— Maine, New Hampshire,
Pennsylvania, Vermont, Virginia, West Vir-
ginia, Kentucky.

Atlanta, Georgia—Alabama, Arkansas, Florida,
Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina,
Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas,
Puerto Rico.

Milwaukee, Wis—Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Michi-
gan, Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota, Ohio,
Wisconsin.

Juneau, Alaska—Alaska.
The national forests are particularly heavily

 

PLAY GYMNASTICS

By I.. L. McCLOW
and D. N. ANDERSON

EIGHT HUNDRED informal play stunts

for gymnasium and playground use,
so clearly illustrated that no training
is necessary in order to use this book
at sight. Directors and teachers who

k .
F.S.Gr0f18 & 00- 33$. 32?}. Z Eliguui’iof‘gfpp‘iiiii

41 Union Sq.. New York need this new book. 153 pages, $3.00

 

 

used by those who must find inexpensive recrea—
tional opportunities. So it may be stated that na-
tional forest recreation offers simplicity, harmony
with natural environment, health and enjoyment
for the many. That this has “customer-appeal” is
attested by the steady increase in the number of
those who come to these areas, where recreation
is enjoyed on a vast Scale without measurable in-
terference with the use of all the other national
forest resources.

  

118 Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
“PHOG” ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University at Kansas

Lawrence, Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating
exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive LicenseZAgreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street a a n a a.

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

m

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

a. St. Louis. Mo.

58

STATE PARKS—CENTERS EOR NATURE RECREATION

The 1939

College Blue Book

Published Since I923

The Standard Reference Work
of Higher Education

756 Pages— Increase of I68

It brings to you for instant re 1‘-
erence the basic facts, ratings,

entrance, fees, resources

Used constantly by College and School of-
ficials, by Guidance Committees and by Le‘ad-
ing Libraries.

Covers 652 Colleges and Universities

563 Junior and 119 Negro Colleges

Also 2,613 Professional Schools of Aero-

nautics, Agriculture, Architecture, Commerce,
Dentistry, Education, Engineering, Forestry,
Journalism, Law, Library Science, Medicine,
Nursing, Osteopathy, Optometry, Pharmacy,
Social Work, Theology, and Schools of

Technology.

567 Universities Around the World

Full page color State Maps in
Educational Atlas

Price $4.75
.

Address the Editor

D r . H . W. H U R T
404 Riverside Drive New York City

 

State Parks—Centers for Nature

Recreation
(Continued from page 27)
indicated a desire to employ park leadership as
soon as their budgets permit.

Other State Programs

In Tennessee at state naturalist has been em-
ployed. In Massachusetts a program demonstra-
tion at the Mt. Tom Reservation has been made
successful through the assistance and cooperation
of the Massachusetts State College.* .,

At Bear Mountain State Park, New York, the
trailside museums, nature trails and nature pro-
gram are known to everyone interested in nature
recreation. '

National Park Service and Leadership
Programs

The National Park Service has conducted a suc-
cessful interpretive program in the national parks
for twenty years. The Bureau, in its cooperation
with state authorities, has encouraged the promo-
tion of similar programs on the part of state park
departments. It is realized by progressive park
and conservation leaders that qualified park lead-
ership can. be the medium of a greater under-
standing, a greater enjoyment, and a more likely
preservation of our natural areas. It is through
such leadership that the lives of the park using
public can- be enriched by an association with
nature.

 

‘" Park and College Teamwork: The Regional Review, National
Park Service. February 1940.

"Here Comes the Traveling Museum"
(Continued from page 6)

where from 3 :00 to 6 :00 P. M. Lunch was always

cooked in the woods.

An Itinerant Museum

Our feature attraction on the visits to the play-
grounds was the traveling museum. This was
nothing more than an old car with the back seat
removed to make room for our specimens. To
aid in the proper display of the collections, a
step-like set of shelves was built in the back of the
car. On each circuit we attempted to have some-
thing altogether different in the museum, which
was stocked with live, mounted and preserved
specimens. After several visits we found it ad-
visable to take the various animals out of'the car
instead of letting everybody climb all over the car

“HERE COMES THE TRAVELING MUSEUM” 59

in an effort to see what was in it. Each time a
playground was visited we discussed a different
topic.

Snakes were the topic of discussion on the first
circuit. Since there is always something fascinat-
ing or interesting about these most misunderstood
vertebrates, we felt it would prove a most moti-
vating introduction. Without a doubt it was sen-
sational! After we had finished discussing the
economic importance of snakes, ways of telling
the difference between poisonous and non-poison-
ous snakes, what to do if bitten by a venomous
snake, and many other subjects, there was no
time left to answer all the children’s questions.
This feature proved popular with all age groups
from six to sixty. On one playground a very
elderly man, who had just recently gone blind,
never missed our nature lore discussions.

To make our discussion more interesting we
used two live timber rattlers, one large copper-
head, two gartersnakes, one milk snake, one water
snake, two DeKays snakes, a large pilot black

snake, and a puffing adder. The poisonous snakes-

naturally attracted the most attention. The rat-
tlers rattled so much that they wore their rattlers
through! After the children learned that some of
the non-poisonous snakes could be safely handled,
I was kept busy watching them.

From that time on I was the snake man, not the
nature specialist. If there were children standing
on the street corners near the playground, when I
was in their neighborhood, you could hear them
call, “Here comes the snake man,” and off they
scampered toward my destination.

On the following visits we discussed birds, in-
sects, mammals, wild fiowers, trees, and pets, and
on the last visit we worked on naturecraft. This
included the making of plaster leaf and animal
track casts, spatter prints, seed ewelry, bird
houses, feeding stations, and strange creatures
from various sized evergreen cones.

Nature Lore Week"

In an attempt to make the children and adults
more nature-minded, we set aside the fifth week
of the summer as nature lore week. During this
week, each playground held a nature story-telling
contest at which each child told an appropriate
story. Another feature of the week was a nature-
craft exhibit on each playground. Some of our
more resourceful leaders held this in connection
with a short nature lore program one evening.

Publicity is very essential in “putting across” a

 

   
 

No child weighs 54,000 pounds! Yet—
LOUDEN Playground Equipment fit-

tings have a guaranteed tensile
strength of 54,000 pounds per
square inch! . . . Why? Because
LOUDEN Playground Equipment must
be safe—just as it must be faultless
in design, materials, workmanship—in
every detail which insures perfect
performance! . . . .That’s Why
LOUDEN equipment is in praise-win-
ning use on play-

grounds all over the

world. '

Write for our Catalogs on (1) Playground Equipment
(2) Swimming Pool Equipment (3) Tennis and BadmintOn
Posts, Reels, Nets and Markers! Address Dept. R-2.

11
rm: I. E. PORTER couponarron

OTTAWA 1k ILLINOIS

 

Manufacturers of the famous "Louden," "Chicago" and
"Spalding" lines of playground. swimming pool and gym-
nasium equipment: and 01"]unglegym" Climbing Structures.

PA15N‘.
FINDING

Thrilling, Inexpensive Game
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR

PLAYGBIJUNDS

Playground Directors Report Enthusiastic
Reception of the “K” Baseball Target Game

Boys everywhere go for this exciting game in a big
way. This game develops strength and skill and is
ideal for “Ball-throwing Contests.” Any number of
boys can play. Minimum supervision required. Tar-
get made of extra-heavy canvas with attractive red-
stenciled design. Frame made of heavy galvanized
pipe. Easy to move. Give the boys in your city a real
treat by equipping every one of your playgrounds
with at least one target. Get ready for the coming
season—write today for free descriptive folder and

special playground prices.

The “K” SHOP - Manufacturers
P. 0. Box 702 . CEDAR RAPIDS . IOWA

60 BEAUTY AND THE CURRICULUM

Beauty and the Curriculum

noxc OTIIER of our natural resources which
A suffered severely in America’s endeavor to
conquer a continent as quickly as possible was the
beauty of our natural environment. Beauty, of
course, has always been at least an extracurricu-
lar activity at Vassar College. But a recent gift
by an anonymoUS alumna has given beauty. the
beauty of nature, a vital place on V assar’s
curriculum. _

The fund will make possible special work in
four departments of the college. The departments
of geology, zoology and botany will do special re-
search in the conservation of the landscape and
the department of psychology will attempt to de-
termine the psychological values of the enjoyment
of nature.

Students will be able in their senior year to
undertake special problems on conservation. Stu-
dents may also work toward a master’s degree
with a thesis on some phase of conservation. The
studies will make a real contribution to the knowl-
edge necessary to the conservationist and they will
also aid in preparing the students for professional
work in this field.

A prominent reason in the past for conservation
has been economy, without too much stress on the
human values to be gained from beautiful or
attractive surroundings. At the same time atten-
tion has been given to the human values inherent
in the appreciation of the fine arts. This new
work at Vassar will extend the reasons for con-

servation and it also increases the number of ap-_

preciations which are recognized as having posi-
tive effects on people.

 

 

program of this type. With the cordial coopera-
tion of our local papers we were able to publish
several feature stories a week and many pictures
of our special or unusual events. Instead of
reaching only the playground public we were able

to inform the general public of our program and
extend its values.

Perspective in National Park Affairs
(Continued from page 11 )

especially well prepared to preserve wildlife and
generous portions of wildlife habitat. Unless
action is taken now the country will lose forever
many native features of flora and fauna which
characterized the America of the pioneer settlers.
Studies are being made to determine what can

still be restored and steps taken to preserve sam-
ples of nature’s manifestations. Each type is given
consideration; the great grasslands of the central
plains constitute a special challenge; the desert in
its varied forms is coming within the bounds of
reservations; the cypress swamps of the south
are being investigated for inclusion; the Arctic
tundras are scrutinized and distinctive forest
types, such as the Port Orford Cedar, are searched
with the‘ idea of establishing boundaries for pro-
tective purposes. '

A division of land planning within the Service
gives undivided attention to the coordination of
investigative work and the selection of new areas.

Acting while there is still opportunity to acquire
the areas for public use, the Service hopes to pre-
serve within a reasonable time many of the natural
and historic exhibits with which to tell the story
of America. The interpretation of these varied
phases of the American scene constitutes a pro-
gram of enormous proportions. Here is a problem
in education that has no exact parallel in the world.

Functions and Methods in National Parks
Interpretative Work

I. Objectives
A. Diffusion of knowledge.
1. General promotion of conservation.
2. Advance public appreciation of things American.
B. Increase of knowledge.
1. Preserve vanishing data.
2. Conduct scientific investigation and research in
history.

II. Methods

A. Discover and preserve.
1. Field and laboratory research.
2. Make scientific and historic collections.
3. Ecological restoration.
4. Historical restoration.
5. Publish iindings.

13. Exposition
1. The exhibits program.

a. Central museums, focal point museums. trail-
side exhibits, exhibits-in-place, nature trails,
historic restorations, historic house museums.

2. Trailside notes and guide books.
3. Popular publications.
C. General information and special instruction
1. Popular lectures.
2. Guided field trips.
3. Auto caravans.
4. Special schools or classes, public.
5. Special schools or classes, in-Service training.
6. Technical advice to administrative staff.
7. Publications for Service use.
8. Develop facilities for research.

(1. Biological preserves, organized collections,

laboratories, bibliographies and libraries.

 

ARTICLES ON NATURE ACTIVITIES IN “RECREATION” 61

Articles on Nature Activities

0 ’
In "Recreatlon'

LTHOUGH THERE has never been an issue of
RECREATION entirely devoted to nature ac-
tivities, articles on the subject have appeared in the
magazine from time to time. We are listing some
of the most significant of these which have ap—

peared within the past few years.
The Successful I\"ature-Garden Club . . . . . . . ..April, 1935

by Karl H. Blanch
Suggestions for organizing school garden clubs

A Civic-Mimled Garden Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..]une, 1935
The program of Cleveland’s Garden Club
Home Room Gardeners—A Garden Club for Indoors
by Karl H. Blanch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .October, 1935
The Garden Center Institute of Buffalo . . . . ..March, 1936
by Mrs. Lloyd W. Josselyn
Nature Education, Social and Recreational. .March, 1936
by William Gould Vinal
How may scientific information be applied to pres-
ent-day problems?

Radishes and Roses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..May, 1936
The Children’s Gardens at the Brooklyn Botanical
Gardens

Nature on the Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .July, 1936

by Elizabeth H. Price

Nature S tudy as a H abby . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .October. 1936

by William L. Lloyd
The story of a marine museum
Yosemite’s Junior Nature School . . . . . . . . ..January, 1937
by Reynold E. Carlson
A nature lore school for children
Enjoying Nature—What Does It Means?. . . . .May, 1937
by Billy L. Bennett
Suggestions of ways of interesting children in nature
Some Adventures in Nature Recreation... .October, 1937
Some of the activities being developed through the
recreation program
San Francisco’s Junior .«lIuseum . . . . . . . . ..October, 1937
Children’s Gardens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..March, 1938
The March, 1938 issue, now out of print, devotes a
great amount of space to children’s gardens
A Recreation Museum for Juniors . . . . . . . . . .April, 1938
by Josephine D. Randall
Gardens for Recreation, by F. Ellwood Allen. .April, 1938

A Sugar Bush Festiz'al . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .April. 1938
Description of a “sugaring-ofi” party

A Nature Program on a Playground . . . . . . . ...\Iay, 1938
Nature program on the Oakland, California.
playgrounds

Overlook No Living Thing, by E. L. Scovell. .August, 1938
Conservation as “a way of living day by day and
hour by hour”

Science Indoors and Out, by H. Henry Platt. .April, 1939
Boys’ Science Clu'bs at a Boston settlement

The Nezeiark Museum Nature Club . . . . . . ..August, 1939
by Edward B. Lang
To See that They Can See . . . . . . . . . . . . . .August, 1939

by Julia Anne Rogers

' You’ll carefully check
your players for good
eyes, good arms and
good coordination,

but in order to get
9 the most out of the
r \ natural ability that
Gr >

they have, you must

provide them with the
best equipment possible. If you buy them bats
in which they have confidence, you can help
your team to victories. Louisville Slugger Bats
have helped baseball’s greatest sluggers to cham-
pionships—your boys know that, and that’s why
they’ll have more coniidence in their own ability
when they’re facing the pitcher. Write for the
Louisville Slugger 1940 Catalogue and price list
of both Louisville Slugger Baseball Bats and
Louisville Slugger Softball Bats.

 

ball rule books for your needs will be sent
on request. Please address Dept. R.

HILLERICH <5: BRADSBY CO.

INCORPORATED
LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY

 “Famous Sluggers of 1939” and enough soft-
I

Famous Autographed Louisville Sluggers de-

signed especially tor prep school and col-
lege hitters are available in the models used

by the following famous Maior Leaguers:

 

GOOD QUALITY BUILDS CONFIDENCE

 

LOUISVILLE. SLUGGER BATS

62 NATURE EXPERIENCES FOR ALL

Parties and Programs
For Parents Days . . .

0 With Mother’s Day and Father’s Day
approaching, readers of RECREATION
will want to be reminded of the book-
let, Parties and Programs for Parents
Days, by Julia Anne Rogers, which
contains programs for Mother’s Day,
Father’s Day, and All Family Days.
There are complete plans for delight-
ful parties, banquets, school and com-
munity center programs. And there are

pantomimes, tableaux, sketches, skits,
and other source material which will
help groups in churches, schools, and
organizations of many types in plan-
ning programs.

Price $.75 paper bound
$1.25 cloth bound

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY

Nature Experiences For All
( Continued from page 4)

membership includes many people with scientific
interests.

In any review of nature programs an important
place must be given to the various educational and
conservation organizations that are active in this
field. For many years the National Association. of
Audubon Societies has been an important leader
in nature work for children and adults. The Isaak
Walton League and the National Wild Flower
Preservation Society are illustrations of two other
organizations. The private organizations, such as
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, and
the Woodcraft League have for many years pro-
vided outing and nature experiences for their
members. Their programs have been built on the
normal interest of children in outd00r activities
and in their curiosity about the interesting world
in which they live. Organized camping was also
developed by private organizations, the Y.M.C.A.
having been one of the pioneer organizations in this
field. Camps generally have a definite place in
their program for nature. Through these organi-

 

zations throughout the year and especially during
their summer camp period, millions of boys and
girls have had first-hand contacts with nature.

In 1920 the National Parks began a naturalist
service. This has-been extended until today, through
a varied program of lectures, field trips, auto-
caravans, and museum services, it touches several
million visitors annually. States, counties, and
municipalities have followed this lead and each
year has seen new naturalist services established
in parks and reserves administered by these gov-
ernmental units.

For children as well as adults, nature recreation
programs have been offered by governmental
agencies. The 4-H program sponsored by the
Department of Agriculture makes a definite at-
tempt to develop nature interests and to further
conservation through them. The National Park
Service and some state and municipal parks have
inaugurated activities for children.

Recreation departments, on playgrounds, parks
and in community centers, are increasingly in-
cluding nature recreation as a part of their pro-
gram. In some instances regular scheduled periods
each week are devoted to nature activities. Hobby
clubs are often organized around a general nature
interest of some special interest such as birds. The
program may center around a nature museum
which may range from small bulletin board dis-
plays to a large museum such as the Marine Mu-
seum in Los Angeles with its thousands of speci-
mens and its wide range of activities. Traveling
nature displays are sometimes carried from play-
ground to playground as a stimulus to interest in
nature. Special activities such as hobby shows,
flower shows, zoo days, pet shows are conducted.
Nature crafts are often included in the craft or
nature programs of playgrounds. Children’s gar-
dens have in some cities found an important place
for themselves. Day camps as well as extended
camps are now sponsored in some cities along with
hiking, picnicking and outdoor cookery groups.
These activities are but a few of the many directed
by recreation departments from coast to coast.

There is every indication of a renewed interest
by Americans in the natural heritage that is ours.
We are seeing the need to conserve that heritage
not only. for the economic well-being of our people
but for its tremendous recreation value in an in-
dustrial world. Organized nature programs are
attempts to make available to those who may wish
them experiences that will help them appreciate
and understand the world in which they live.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Birds in the Garden -— And How to

Attract Them

By Margaret McKenny. Reynal and Hitchcock. New
York. $5.00.

HIS DELIGHTFUL BOOK, which every bird lover will

want to know about, gives complete information on
how to attract birds to the garden, feed and care for
them under all conditions, and get the most out of them
not only in terms of song and beauty, but as protection
against destructive insects. There are fascinating chap-
ters on how to distinguish birds by their song; how to
tame wild birds and make them pets; on bird migration,
bird photography, and community bird sanctuaries. The
volume is profusely illustrated with photographs and
paintings in full color.

Working With Nature

By Eleanor King and Wellmer Pessels. Harper and
Brothers, New York. $1.20.

THE BOOK OPENS under the intriguing title, “What’s
Going on in Your Dooryard?” with a presentation of
familiar, everyday creatures introduced in a new light.
It is a book about the conservation of wild life, with a
section devoted to insects which is most illuminating.
“If we are going to become good conservationists,” say
the authors in their introduction, “we must be able to see
that the true interrelationships between animals and be-
tween plants and animals are the basic foundations of
the balance in nature. The insects are excellent subjects
which illustrate this principle. Also, insects are close at
hand and available for observation by every school boy
and girl, and certainly there are no creatures to rival
them in fantastic interest.” The author 'has been highly
successful in making the humble insect a most interest-
ing creature. There are many photographs .in the book.

Birdhouses

By Paul V. Champion. The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee. $1.25.

N INTERESTING FEATURE of this book lies in the in-
genuity of the author in suggesting household articles
from which birdhouses may be made and in recommend-
ing materials such as orange crates and apple boxes if
better supplies are not available. Construction directions

are simple and easy to follow and are supplemented with-

clear working drawings. -

The School Garden—A Laboratory

of Nature

By Van Evrie Kilpatrick, A.B., A.M. School Garden
Assoc1ation of New York, 121 East Slst Street, New
York. Single copies, $.75.

MR. KILPATRICK’S long association with the school gar-
dens of New York City and with the national move-
ment to promote gardening has given authority to his
presentation of The School Garden. Along with much
detail and practical information on the organization and
administration of school gardens and the why and how

of gardening. Mr. Kilpatrick has given us the historical
background of the movement, particularly of the develop-
ment of the School Garden Association of New York.
Anyone interested in school gardening will find in this
booklet a gold mine of information.

First Aid Afield

By Paul W. Gartner. The Macmillan .Company, New
York. $1.50. . '

HERE IS A MANUAL which explains clearly and simply
the equipment and practical knowledge that every-
one should carry when he goes hiking or on field trips,
hunting or fishing, swimming or boating. Mr.'Gartner
tells what to do in case of accident in the backwoods or
mountain; how to improvise bandages, slings, and
stretchers from crude materials; and how to use guns.
fishing rods, or other outdoor equipment in taking care
of broken bones. The second section of the book is
devoted to common-sense methods of self-preservation in
the water, and the treatment of accidents in boating and
swimming.

Directory of Camps in America
1940

Prepared by Ross L. Allen. American Camping Asso-
ciation, Ann Arbor, Michigan. $3.00.

AMPS IN EVERY STATE in the Union and the District of

Columbia, in the United States possessions, and in
Canada appear in this listing of approximately 5,000
camps. The Directory should be of great value to many
groups.

Play Gymnastics

By L. L. McClow, M.P4E. and D. N. Anderson, B.P.E.
F. S. Crofts and Company, New York. $3.00.

HERE ARE A LARGE number of very interesting and
usable stunts—eight hundred and fifty of them to be
exact—for forty arrangements of gymnastic apparatus.
They are so clearly illustrated as to make them easy to
organize into apprOpriate gradations of difficulty and
easy to teach. There are profuse illustrations.

Bibliography of Swimming

Compiled by Frances A. Greenwood. The H. W. Wilson
Company, New York. $4.25.

AFEW YEARS AGO Miss Greenwood compiled an index
on swimming under the title “Swimming, Diving and
Watersports” which went out of print almost as soon as
it was published, so great was the demand for it. Since
that time she has devoted all the time she could spare
from her work in the Department of Physical Education
at the University of Alabama to revising, enlarging, and
improving the compilation which now includes material
published up to June, 1938. As a result of ’her research,
the literature of four hundred years on swimming and
related subjects—the earliest date is 1538—has been in-
dexed in this comprehensive book of 10,000 titles and

608 subjects.
63

64 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Report of the Chief of the Forest Service 1939.

Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture.
Government Printing Ofllce, Washington. $.10.

It is exceedingly encouraging to read in the Report of
the Chief of the Forest Service of the progress which 15
being made in the conservation of our natural resources.
\Vhat is being done to preserve and use to the best
advantage the country’s forests, some of the problems
which are being faced. and interesting facts about com-
munity, state, and Federal forests and the ways in which
the Forest Service is meeting its responsibilities are dis-

cussed in this report.
An important use of the more than 175,000,000 acres

of public land in the national forests, states the report,
is for 'human recreation. “Millions of peOple come to
them each year for an hour or a day or a series of days
Of rest, of relaxation, of inspiration, of secluSIOn, or
sport.” In 1938 more than 32,750,000 visits were made
to the forests by peOple from every state in the Union.

How to Tie Flies.

By E. C. Gregg. Barnes Dollar Sports Library, A.
S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.

You will find described here the methods of construc-
tion used 'by the professional fly tier which will enable
you to make your own flies at home. In the first part of
the book the tools, hooks. and materials used in fly tying
are described and illustrated. Next the author tells you
step by step "how to make wet flies, dry flies, nymphs, bass
flies, feather streamers. floating bugs, and anglers’ knots.
The book is concluded with standard dressings for 334

flies.

Rooms of Their Own.

By Emeric Kurtagh, George Stoney, and Walter S.
Child. Henry Street Settlement, New York. $.50.

Recreation workers all over the country have been
hearing vague rumors of New York City’s “cellar clubs”
and have been wondering about them. Henry Street Set-
tlement decided to find out the truth about these clubs,
and three workers of the staff visited and studied twenty-

eight clubs, twenty-two of which were found in cellars.-

What they learned about the clubs and what they mean
to their members has been incorporated in a mimeo-
graphed bulletin of 79 pages. “The cellar clubs are with
us,” states the report. “They will be with us as long as
they are the best answer the young people can find to
their recreational needs. A good many social workers
have come to realize this and are trying to work out
ways Of helping the clubs to improve—first of all, to
regulate their status so the boys will not feel themselves
suspected as criminal groups, and secondly. to form con-
tacts with them that will make guidance and coopera-
tion possible."

Training for Recreation.

By Dorothy I. Cline. Obtainable free from the Uni-
versity of Chicago Press, 5750 Ellis Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois.

It will be valuable to have such a well-organized his-
torical record as Miss Cline has given us of the develop-
ment Of the WPA program for the training Of recreation
leaders. The fact that many will not agree with all Miss
Cline has written about recreation programs conducted
outside the WPA will not detract from the value of the
booklet as a historical record of recreational develop-
ments under Federal auspices.

Nature EncyOIOpedia.

Edited by G. Clyde Fisher, Ph.D., LL.D. Halcyon
House. New York. $2.95.

Formerly published under the title Nature’s Secrets,
this volume represents a complete nature library between
two covers. Here under the general editorship of G.
Clyde Fisher secrets in many fields of nature are dis-

closed by' recognized authorities. There are sections on
birds, mammals, fish, reptiles, amphibians, insects,
spiders, flowers, and trees, each profusely illustrated.
There is also an interesting chapter on “Color as Seen
in the Animal World.” “Bird Houses and Shelters” are
the subject of another chapter. The text alone Of this
fascinating encyclopedia covers over 900 pages. and there
are more than 500 illustrations.

The American Youth Hostels Handbook 1939.

Edited by Isabel and Monroe Smith. American
Youth Hostels, Inc., Northfield, Massachusetts. $.50.

The fourth edition of the handbook of the American
Youth Hostels is a novel, attractively illustrated book of
130 pages giving information regarding the eight hostels
sections of the country; data regarding hotels; directions
for those traveling abroad; and a section entitled “Hostel
Maker’s Guide,” which will be illuminating to those who
are not familiar with the details of this rapidly growing
movement.

Diversions for the Sick—Occupational Therapy.

John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company,
Boston. Massachusetts.

This attractive little book, with suggestions for hand-
craft activities of various kinds, may be secured free of
charge from the Life Conservation Service of the John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company in Boston.

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRDY, TreaSurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUHMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUEEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. McCURDv, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIIEEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. W‘INANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

