Thirty-five Years
of the

National Recreation Association

N APRIL 12, 1941, the National Recreation Association completed thirty-
flve years of service.

The people of the United States for thirty-five years have worked together
in recreation in an organized way.

The tax—supported community recreation center is a native American product.

Thousands of persons in more than a thousand communities have worked
together to make it what it is.

The “pursuit of happiness" was given a national place in the Declaration
of Independence.

Freedom has been central in all recreation thinking in the recreation move-
ment in this country—to make it easy for each person to get a chance to do what
he most wants to do, what he likes best to do, a chance to fmd others of like

mind, who want to do the same things, to play baseball, to skate, to swim, to
play in an orchestra, to sing in°a chorus, to read poetry.

Kings and barons had no such chance to share with others in as many
hundreds of activities as have the children, the youngsters, the older pe0ple, too,
in our neighborhoods. '

Ocean fronts, lake fronts, land, facilities to the amount of six billion dollars
have been set aside by the American people for recreation.

In these thirty-flve years recreation has won a place for itself as one of the
main divisions of life—aside by side with religion, education, health, labor, recre-
ation has taken its place.

Recreation centers give an opportunity for comradeship, for doing things
together with people you like. They become centers for living.

Above all, fathers and mothers in America see their children have an op-

portunity for free, happy, normal childhood under leadership and a measure of
discipline.

W GWoéu/I/

65

WW

NEE

;
. Lilia. I] Elk \ 
x J

‘ ' . 5
 “a r39 «Jib

a

- a H '3.

“PI

W} l
‘ ‘

f

M;

;
l
H

 

Making the Story Hour "60”

HAT MAKES a story hour go? A number of
W things, among which looms large the story-

teller’s training, his attitude, his knowledge
of the IQ and SQ of the group to which he is
telling stories. These
and other factors de—
termine the success or
the failure of the story
hour.

Among the other
factors is that of the
meeting place of the
«group, and the condi-
tions under which the
storyteller must work.
There is no denying
that it is vastly easier
to make a story hour
“go” when it is held
either indoors or at a
quiet, sheltered part
of the playground.
Nevertheless, storytel—
lers who are interested
in their work, enthusi-
astic over it, and have
given it careful pre—
paration, can and do
make story hours “go”
even under trying con-
ditions.

Speaking of prepa-
ration, time thUs spent is time well spent. Chil-
dren, like their elders, are bored by a poorly told
story. And a well told story, in most cases, is one
that has been given thoughtful preparation prior
to the telling. True, storytelling seems to come
naturally to some people. I use the word seems
advisedly, because I believe, even to those so-
called natural storytellers, the apparent ease and
spontaneity comes, in nine cases out of ten, as the
result of preparation.

The recreation leader’s attitude is of grave im—
portance, since the children reflect it. To them
he represents authority in
everything pertaining to the
recreational set-up. If he is not
interested, they lose interest,
too.-Fortunately, this disinter—

Mrs. Fultz directs the storytelling
program on two hundred and fifteen
playgrounds conducted by the Board
of EducationI City of Los Angeles.

By DESSA M. FULTZ

In this shaded spot. with high brick walls
shutting out the noise. storytelling "goes"!

 

ested attitude is one seldom encountered by the
traveling storytellers but they recognize it as some—
thing to be watched for, and when discovered, to
be overcome.

Points to Keep in Mind

Linked closely with a storyteller’s attitude is his
knowledge of the IQ and SQ 0f the children in
the various groups on the playgrounds. In many
cities the fact must be taken into consideration
that the children have a social and racial back-
ground ranging from that of those who come from

wealthy American homes to
those of foreign parentage who
live in the crowded, low-rent
sections of the city. What is
‘ frequently considered to be a

67

68 MAKING THE STORY HOUR “GO”

low “IQ among the children
from the poorer districts may
be merely a language diffi-
culty. The storyteller should
take this into account, realiz-
ing that telling a story to
children who have not en-
tirely mastered our language
requires more skill and prepa-
ration than telling a story to
a group of American-born children. If this is not
considered, the story hour will not “go.”

Incidentally, there is sometimes a mistake in the
selection of a story, even when the storyteller has
the correct attitude and a fairly good knowledge
of the IQ and SQ of the group. I know, because
I made such a mistake.

It was on a small playground situated among
factories, warehouses and gas tanks. The people
who live in this district are mostly from a neigh-
boring republic. There is no part of the crowded
playground where a story group can enjoy even
partial seclusion, but the children are used to the
rumbling of trucks and the clanging of street car
bells. They never let noise distract their attention
from a story in which they are interested. When
I visited this playground and was asked by the
director if I would tell a story, I gladly consented.

I sat upon a low chair, facing a group of chil—
dren who were seated in a sand box near the high
wire fence that enclosed the playground. The
story I commenced telling was “Gree, the Wise
One,” by Dr. Madeline Veverka. It is the story of
five little frogs that wanted to go to school. I hadn’t
much more than commenced, however, before I
realized I had failed to interest the children before
me. Their faces were perfectly blank. This puz-
zled me, because “Gree, the Wise One” had been
an especially popular story on other playgrounds.

“Don’t you like this story?” I asked.

“No-o, Mee-es,” answered a tiny, dark-eyed
girl; a courteously spoken negative which, I
realized, voiced the sentiment of the entire group.
I pondered a moment. Then an idea flashed into
my mind.

“How many of you have ever seen a frog?” I
queried.

Silence.

“But surely you’ve seen pictures of frogs,” I
said. “Haven’t you?”

“No, Mee—es.” This time the answer came in
chorus. I was at a loss for a moment; then a scam-
pering sound, accompanied by a sharp barking

"The storyteller tells what we dream.
what others have dreamedI what they
have done, and what they have wanted
to do. He must tell it in an inter-
esting' enthusiastic manner. He must
be full of his story; he must love it.
must live with it until it becomes a
part of him and of his own experience.
Then he will never be accused of act-

ing."—Adlyn M. Keffet in Story Art.

solved the problem for me. A
small black kitten, followed
by a shaggy dog, came tear-
ing across the street toward
us. I waited until the kitten
had climbed a street tree and
was safe from its pursuer,
then I asked:

“Would you like to hear a
story about a little black
kitty?” Again the reply was chorused. “Yes,
Mee-es,” shouted the children. “We know black
kitty.”

So, thanks to quick thinking on my part, and to
a charming book, H are and N 020 Stories, by Lucy

-Sprague Mitchell, the situation was saved. I told

the story titled, “Spot, Who Wanted a Home,”
and a story hour that had started badly ended
successfully.

This school is by no means the only one where
the children using the playground are mostly of
foreign parentage. At another school playground
there are twenty-eight nationalities represented.
At this very large playground the storytellers
must cope not merely with the noise of street cars
and trucks, but also with that made by some three
hundred children engaged in about every imagin-
able form of physical activity. Fortunately, a love
of stories is common to children of all nationali-
ties. W ith this fact in her favor, and by dint of a
thorough preparation plus a sympathetic under-
standing and a zestful enthusiasm, the storyteller
here makes the story hour “go.”

This storyteller had taken her charges to a
small, grassy plot. Even Pedro was quiet—a real
achievement! The group of older children at this
playground were to have been photographed the
day before, but just as the photographer was ready
to slip the plate into the camera, a fire truck came
down the street, bells clanging, siren shrilling.
Other tire-lighting equipment followed. So did
the children—every last one of them! That was
an occasion when a story hour was made to “go,”
but not by the storyteller, nor in the manner she
desired.

A playground which is in marked contrast to
those in the poorer districts, is one in a neighbor-
hood that is above the average in the share of
worldly goods. Here, conditions are almost ideal.
Naturally, the IQ and SQ of the children here is
high. That, in conjunction with favorable sur-
roundings and an unusual ability possessed by the

 

MAKING THE STORY HOUR “G0” 69

storyteller, make the story hour an invariable suc-
cess. Sitting upon the flagstones, in a shaded spot
where high brick walls shut it away from the
noise and activity of the playground, the children
listen attentively. No one, seeing their rapt and
eager faces, could doubt that this is a story hour
which has been made to “go.”

Story Clubs

Story clubs have been effective in arousing ad—
ditional interest in story hours. Children love
clubs; and it surely behooves those associated with
a recreation program to see to it the clubs to which
the children belong promote high ideals and right
thinking.

The story clubs are of various kinds, to meet
‘the needs of different groups of children. In all
of them the story hour is open to anyone, but cer-
tain club privileges—such as voting—are exer—
cised by club members only. To become a club
member, the applicant must "tell a story, stating
the source and 'naming the author. This story
must not have been taken from a movie, the radio
or a funny paper. The story must also have a
good beginning, suspense, a
climax and a good ending. A
rather stiff requirement? Yes;
but (to be guilty of a cliche)
the wind is tempered, so that

A meeting of a story club at a play-
ground in a more favored district.
The president. seven year old Frankie.
is presiding. The vice-president and
the secretary are seated at the table.

even children with a language complex strive to
qualify. And succeed.

It was the youthful club president pictured, the
little English lad, Frankie, who astounded the
storyteller one day. He had requested a fairy
story, instead of the usual real life story. When
the storyteller asked why, he replied: “Because
it will contain imagination and beauty, and real
life is now filled with so much sorrow and reality.”
He added, “Please use words that are fantastic,
weird and peculiar.”

No, Frankie was not showing off. That is the
sort of language he always uses. Yet he is very
popular with his schoolmates.

The Leprechaun Good Time Story Club is one
which, like Topsy, just grew. It started about
three years ago. A traveling assistant storyteller
had been telling “The Last of the Leprechauns,”
from California Fairy Tales, by Monica Shannon.
As it happened, the children in the group had
been asking for a “new kind of club.” When the
story came to its close, a little girl said: “I’m Irish.
So are the leprechauns. Let’s make up a lepre-
chaun club, please.” The other children in the
group liked the idea. So did
those in other groups. Sugges-
tions were made, some to be
accepted, some rejected. Thus
the club took shape until,

 

70 MAKING THE STORY HOUR “GO”

finally, it was a going organi- "Any
zation, with a constitution, a
pin, club song, club colors,
and a time set for initiation
ceremonies and for “feasts.”
Both the initiation ceremon-
ies andthe so-called “feasts” ,
are simple, and are conducted by the children,
under the guidance of the director or storyteller.

The King Arthur Story Club for Boys was
organized at the request of a group of boys who
wanted a club for boys alone. It proved so suc-
cessful that other King Arthur Clubs were formed
at other playgrounds in the city. The aim is
through study of the King Arthur stories to instill
the qualities of kindness, courtesy, honesty, cour-
age, loyalty and good sportsmanship in the club
members.

King Arthur Story Clubs for Boys are, of
course, not unusual, but the ones on our play-
grounds are unusually fortunate in that they have
an exceptionally able traveling assistant storytel-
ler in charge. She has devoted many years to
Arthurian research, accumulating a rich fund of
information which is of great benefit to the boys.
That she has also succeeded in arousing their en-
thusiasm is illustrated by an incident which she
related to me. She said she was leaving a play-
ground where there was a thriving King Arthur
Club. As she neared the gateway, a boy came
running through it, almost barging into her. Stop-
ping so suddenly he nearly lost his balance, he
shouted, disappointment in his voice, “Gee whizz!
I’m gypped out of King Arthur!”

Not to be outdone by the boys, a group of girls
asked for a club for girls alone, and the Queen
Guinevere Story Club was formed. The aim is
identical with that of the King Arthur Story
Clubs. The rules and regulations, too, are similar
to those the boys use. But, instead of the shields
which the boys make and are permitted to carry at
certain times, after having fulfilled certain re-
quirements, the girlsmake and are Permitted to
wear wimples. These wimples are of white banded
with blue, and the girls who have earned the right

by observance of certain requirements, wear them

during club meetings.

The Gold Star Story Club has for its object the
development of the art of storytelling. The appli-
cant must be able to tell a story which, in selec-
tion and manner of telling, meets the standard set
by the club. The other children in the group,
aided by the storyteller in charge, are the judges.

storyteller whose heart is in his
work. and who has known the thrill of
being almost mobbed by eager children
when the story hour arrives. will agree
with me that effort spent in prepara-
tion for making the story hour 'go' is
an investment that pays big dividends.”

When the applicant has passed
the test he is given a card
bearing a gold star, his name,
and the words: “This gold
star is given for attendance
at the story group, and for'
telling one story before the
group. Judged for poise, enthusiasm, memory,
and the sequence of the story told.”

Another story club which well deserves mention
is The Airplane Ride Club. The storyteller in
charge has traveled widely. Experience plus
marked ability enable her to make the children
“see” how the people (especially the children) of
distant countries live. Moreover, through coopera-
tion with directors and school principals she is
able to make her material correlate with the class-
room work of the children.

At the end of my list, but ranking high in popu-
larity, is the Mystery Story Writer’s Club. As
the name suggests, the aim is to plot and develop
mystery stories. Sometimes one is weeks in the
making, with groups at half a dozen playgrounds
working on it, new ideas and suggestions being
conveyed from one group to another by the tra-
veling assistant storyteller.

Gangster “stuff,” kidnappings and murders are
ruled out. With these subjects eliminated, how-
ever, the children find plenty of material from
which to weave their mysteries. And are these
youngsters interested? They are. Quite recently
a boy of twelve said to the storytellers: “My
mother asked me why I never listen, any more, to
what used to be my favorite after-dinner program.
I told her, ‘Because it’s cheap stuff. You just
ought to hear the stories we write!’ ”

The word write, by the way, is figurative. The
stories are developed verbally. But some of the
best (and they are good) have been put into writ-
ten form. I feel that I am justified in saying that
a story hour producing such results may be said
not merely to “go,” but to go with at bang.

It would be gratifying to be able to say this,
truthfully, of each and every story hour. But I
cannot. The visible gain, in a very few cases, has
been disappointing. And when the cause of the
failure has been found to be the result of the
storyteller’s attitude, his lack of understanding or
imperfect preparation, it seems especially regret-
table, inasmuch as there are study courses in the
art of storytelling available and books on the
subject accessible.

(Continued on page 126)

 

Summer Music Program

N QUEST OF A SUMMER playground activity that
I would have compelling appeal to children of all

ages, the County of VVestchester, New York,
conducted a survey this past summer which re-
sulted in establishing a new kind of music pro—
gram. And, incidentally, it provided the VVest-
Chester County Recreation Commission, sponsors
of the study, with important data on the problems
under consideration.

Raymond Shannon, the County’s Summer Spe-
cialist in Music, assisted recreation departments in
nine county towns in organizing playground music
activities, and fourteen “community music nights.”
This season of experimenting, according to Mr.
Shannon’s report to the Commission, revealed the
type of music program that has power to enlist
not only children of all ages but grown-ups as well.

The statistical phase of Mr. Shannon’s report
indicates the development of this new summer
music activity on forty-two playgrounds in these
nine communities. It estimates that 750 children
joined the orchestras, bands, choruses, rhythm
bands and small vocal harmony groups that come
into being. In several communities cited by Mr.
Shannon play leaders themselves joined the chil-
dren in learning to use ukuleles. For in spite of

Even rain couldn't
keep tour hundred
people from crowding
into the school audi-
torium at Elmstord to
hear one of West-
chester County's sing-
ing groups take part
in a community music
night program

the enthusiastic interest in the music program
which was stimulated and organized by village and
city recreation directors and play leaders, they
could not mobilize pianos for each playground,
and the ukulele in such instances proved invalu-
able as accompaniment for group singing. In the
absence of pianos or victrolas for the many rhy-
thm bands, the lowly kazoo served as the pur-
veyor of melody. Throughout the County the
VVPA helped to provide direction for the rhythm
bands which were in turn brought into being at a.
cost of two or three dollars for equipmeht.

Community Music Nights

Grown-ups joined with the children in fourteen
of the “community music nights” at which mass
singing headed a list of mUSic attractions which
read like a theater program in the days of Vau-
deville Triumphant: community concert bands,
rhythm bands, girl sextets, hill-billy bands, danc-
ers, harmonica players, accordionists, dramatic
readers, baton twirlers, dance groups, drum corps,
colored choral singing, church choirs, a male quar-
tet, and a girls’ dance orchestra. All these elements
were brought together in varying combinations for
the fourteen evening performances. Local recrea-
tion heads scouted for the talent and a c0nveni-
ent stadium, while Mr. Shannon worked on the
musical details. The County’s Recreation Com-
mission made available a sound system, stereopti-

71

72 SUMMER MUSIC PROGRAM

con, outdoor screen and flood-
lights. Attendance at these
evening affairs was highly
gratifying, ranging from 500
to 3,000 at each concert. In
fact, interest and enthusiasm
on several occasions stood the
test of summer showers and
absence of seats. It was com-
mon for a community to re-
quest a “repeat performance.”

It Can Be Done!

So it can be done, and no one should be afraid
to try it. You can’t provide the pianos? You
can’t dig up victrolas? Then try the ukulele and
the kazoo, advises Mr. Shannon.

Perhaps you have no play leaders experienced
in leading organized music activity? Don’t let this
worry you. If they can sing or play, they can
lead. The fundamentals can be learned from a
book or pamphlet in the library.

To students of the summer playground, espe-
cially to those looking for a solution to the prob-
lem of organizing a single activity that will appeal
to children of all ages, there is much to be learned
from this new enterprise in
Westchester County. Per-

Municipal recreation agencies every-
where are taking steps to strengthen
their music programs. and a special
effort is under way in some cities to
make music on the playground particu-
larly interesting to children. This sub-
iect was discussed by A. D. Zanzig in
the May I937 isssue of Recreation,
reprints of which are available from
the Association at ten cents each.

haps music is the common
denominator, and, judging
from the unusual success which
greeted Mr. Shannon’s efforts
in this community, there is
much to be hoped for from a
more intensive application of
the lessons learned in the sum-
mer to come. Attracting the
participation of individuals
from six to sixty, the enterprise extended from
the playground into the home, and, through public
concerts, was carried to the community at large.

“It would be a task something in the nature of
higher mathematics to calculate the number of com-
munity choruses and instrumental groups through-
out the land that fill the air with music. They seem
as numerous as the stars. Sitting in recently on a jam
session of a rhythm band, the listener was struck
by the ingenuity of teachers in turning the tot’s love
of noise into a love of rhythm. In Cambridge, Mas-
sachusetts, a German refugee has trained a group
of young recorder players, who render 15th and
I6th century music with astonishing perception.”-——-
Clarissa Lorene in Music and Youth in America

Growing Up Together,
“Christian Science Monitor.”

One of Westchester County's rhythm bands
takes part in a music night at Tarrytown

 

The uPlayhouse on the Green"

HE “PLAYHOUSE on the

Green” is just a big tent

pitched on the shady
shore of a lagoon. The seats
are bleachers, all facing the
north end of the tent which
is open so that the sky and
the water form a blue stage
cyclorama, trees and shrub-
bery, the wings, and the
grass of the shore, a green
‘ floor cloth.

The actors are from the
drama clubs of the Milwau-
kee Recreation Department. Mornings and after-
noons they present plays for children; in the eve-
nings short versions of Shakespeare’s plays.

The occasion is the annual mid-summer festival
of the City of Milwaukee, held every July on the
lake front. This festival is the result of the co—
operation of municipal departments and civic
groups. The Playhouse on the Green is one of the
contributions of the Milwaukee Public Schools
Department of Municipal Recreation and Adult
Education.

The Setting

The theater opens onto a main drive connecting
various attractions that are outside the regular
midway. Back of the theater about two acres are
fenced off from the public, and in this area are
pitched tents for make-up and dressing rooms.
The Park Board builds temporary toilet facilities,
plugs in extra faucets, and installs separate light
controls. Three voting booths are equipped with
ironing boards, sewing machines, costume racks,
and tubs for washing tights. The booths have
ample space for the storage of properties and
scenery.

Scenery is reduced to a minimum. The Shake-
spearean plays use only the natural setting of trees
and shrubs. Those growing on the bank of the
lagoon are supplemented with pine, spruce and
poplars transplanted from the park nurseries so
that the side walls of the part of the tent used for
the stage are concealed, and the effect produced is
of a woodland glen. .

Back of the shrubs and trees that form the
wings, platforms and steps are built that serve as

Milwaukee is preparing for the
fourth season of its "Playhouse
on the Green.
season—only nine days—but the
presentation of five plays each
day will make it a strenuous one.

By MARION PREECE

Department of Municipal Recreation .
Milwaukee Public Schools can for more realism—

ramps and balconies. Such
a simple setting is ideal for
plays like “Midsummer-
Night’s Dream” and “As
You Like It.” The Shake-
spearean players have never
added anything more to this
setting than a bench or two
and stools or a table, as the
magic one in “The Tempest.”

The children’s plays often

It is a short

a fireplace, a door, gate or

window. Eight-foot folding
sci'eens are used, painted on both sides so that they
are reversible .for quick changes. There are no
curtains, so all changes are made in full view of
the audience. A front curtain high enough to
shield the stage is impossible, as the side walls of
the tent are only eight feet high and an eight foot
curtain would not hinder the children on the top
row of seats from seeing practically everything
that goes on. Various plans for masking were con-
sidered the first year but were finally discarded,
and it was decided to costume the stage hands and
divert the children’s attention from them as much
as possible by sending out costumed singers and
musicians to entertain during intermissions.

The shifts are usually rapid. Take the play of
“Cinderella,” for example. In the first act there
is a fireplace that would look isolated against the
green, so it is backed with a triple fold screen, the
sides of which curve down to the base in a gentle
slope. This screen has a coat of arms on the
reverse side. In the second act, the palace scene,
the screen is placed in front of the fireplace and
the reverse side used as backing for two thrones.

The Audience Moves on the Stage!

There is no record of any child voicing any
criticism of this type of staging. There was one
little boy who made it a point of staying after the
show one afternoon to give a suggestion to an
usher. He had just seen “Cinderella.” In the
second act the music is heard from off stage, and
the prince asks Cinderella to go to the ballroom
and dance with him. As they exit, the queen
walks down to the center of the stage and stands

73

74 THE “PLAYHOUSE ON THE GREEN”

there apparently watching the dancers in the ball-
room. There is music and laughter, and it all
sounds very gay and the queen nods her head in
approval, turning to the king now and then to
praise Cinderella’s beauty and grace. After this
play, the small boy asked the usher if the trees
couldn’t have been moved further back because he
couldn’t see the ballroom at all!

Some of the patrons are less diffident, and if
they cannot see they make a point of getting to a
place where they can. Jack in the play “Jack and
the Beanstalk” comes sliding down the beanstalk
(off stage) and runs into his home calling to his
mother to give him an ax to chop down the bean-
stalk because the giant is coming after him. The
mother had no more than handed Jack the ax at
one performance than a little boy in the theater
leaped over the lights that separated the actors
from the audience, ran across the stage and 'out
the door after Jack. When Jack came back on the
stage his little companion was at his heels. As
Jack told his_story the child listened intently,
clapped his hands, and jumped up and down, en—
tirely unconscious of the fact that his place was
on the other side of the footlights.

As the stage is on the ground level, has, in fact,
the ground for its floor, it is an easy matter for a
child to step over the pine branches that conceal
the lights and be part of the acting group. This
is no unusual event. In the same play, “Jack and
the Beanstalk,” a boy of about five ran across the
dividing line to watch Jack take the gold pieces
out of the chest. When Jack closed the chest and
moved cautiously toward the sleeping giant to seize
the magic harp, a hundred children’s voices
warned him to be careful. The little live-year-old
pulled himself up on the chest and tried to quiet
the audience. He kept one eye on the giant and
one on the audience, hushing them with signs. The
eyes of the child audience were glued on the giant,
but the eyes of every adult were on the little boy
on the chest. When the giant awoke with a loud
snort and Jack made a rush to escape, the little
fellow leaped off the chest, scrambled pell mell
over a wave of children whose excitement had
swept them to the edge of the stage, and back to
his mother.

Many of the children in the audiences come
from the city playgrounds. Every playground
sends play leaders with the children of the neigh—
borhood to the festival for one day. Many of the
grounds are near enough to the lake front so that
the children can walk there. For the more distant

grounds, arrangements are made with the electric
company for chartered cars which pick up children
of the playgrounds of different vicinities at points
where the children of a number of grounds con-
gregate. At about ten-thirty, long lines of boys and

. girls can be seen coming over the Lincoln Me-

morial Bridge, which is the entrance to Juneau
Park on Lake Michigan. They bring their lunch
and make a day of it.

The first show is at eleven o’clock, the second is
at one, and the third at three. There is a ten-cent
admission for each show. The Recreation Depart—
ment, in cooperation with the Festival Board, sells
a ten—cent ticket to each playground child which
admits him to three attractions on the grounds.
One attraction is the Playhouse on the Green and
the child may select which show he wishes to at-
tend. Occasionally a child rushes in with a large
group and finds when the show starts that he has
come to the wrong one. There is a whispered con-
ference with an usher, who, if a young man, is
always “coach” to a playground child. “Coach,
when does Pinocchio come on? Isn’t Pinocchio in
this show? I want to see Pinocchio.” Then it’s
back to the ticket window to exchange the ticket.
Some children just bear their disappointment
silently. An usher saw one little boy walking out
of the tent when the show was about half over
pretending to be occupied with a big belt that held
up his much washed long pants. Tears were flow-
ing unchecked. “Don’t you like the show?” The
little one kept right on walking. “I thought it was
going to be Cinderella.” This meant further nego-
tiations with the ticket window for a “Cinderella”
ticket, a sort of your-money-back transaction if
you are not satisfied.

When It Rains There’s Storytelling

There has been one rainy day each year. Nat-
urally the attendance is always lower that day.
Chartered street cars are cancelled in case of rain,
and rescheduled for the last day of the festival.
However, the townspeople have learned that rainy
days afford the best chance for good seats and
parents come with their children and often stay
for a second show, or even a third. Each show is
timed to last only one hour. Rainy days are story-
telling days, and there is something cozy about
sitting inside a tent with the rain and the wind
shut"out, and kings and queens and heroes and
fairy princesses unfolding a story on a warmly
lighted stage.

THE “PLAT/HOUSE ON THE GREEN”

75

 

It wasn’t so cozy the hrst year—that was the
year of the leaky tent. It rained all one day and
by evening the weak spots in the roof showed up.
The Shakespearean shows were fairly well at-
tended in spite of the downpour, but the audience
sat with umbrellas over their heads and news-
papers over their knees. The tent was pitched on
a slope with the stage at the low end. The water
ran through the theater and across the stage like a
mild woodland brook. The actors took off their
shoes and played barefooted.

The Milwaukee Players of the Recreation De-
partment form the casts of the Shakespearean
shows. Every May for the last ten years they have
had a Shakespearean Festival, and it is from that
repertoire that plays for the lake front are
selected. At the Playhouse on the Green they have
played “Comedy of Errors,” “Midsummer-
Night’s Dream,” “Taming of the Shrew,” “The
Tempest,” “LOve’s Labor’s Lost,” “As You Like
It.” This year they will play “Romeo and Juliet”
and repeat “Taming of the Shrew.” Shakespeare
for ten cents. That’s the price of admission.

The children’s plays for this year are “Hansel
and Gretel,” “Sleeping Beauty,” and “Mr. Dooley,
Jr.” The festival will open Saturday, July 12th,
and close Sunday, July 20th.

Soon they’ll be marking off the stage at the lake
front, next will come dress rehearsals, and then
the shows. Nine days of them. Boys and girls,

young men and young women from all over the
city. Five casts of them. There will be good
performances and some not so good; there will be
the usual funny accidents and near tragedies.
There’ll be rain, perhaps, and some very hot
weather that will make the end of the festival
seem ages away. Then the night of the last shows
will come. Everyone will tear around packing
costumes, marking scenery for delivery. The two
electricians will finally say their last good-byes
and we’ll tell them that we hope they’ll be back
next year. (They have been with us since we
started.) The stage hands—college boys who Work
for the festival commission andowho know practi-
cally every line of every play by the end of the
week, and have even prompted players on occa-
sion—will take a last look at the pine and spruce
lined stage—“Boy! this was fun. Well, so long!”
The gate man, an employee of the festival com-
mission, who took the flrst ticket the first year
and has never missed a performance, will look
over the place to see if anything has been forgotten
and then come back after his tour of inspection
and tell us all we’d better go home and get some
rest.

The group will finally break up reluctantly and
start to go like people leaving a ship and saying
farewell after a long sea voyage. “Good-bye!
Next year! See you at the Playhouse on the
Green.”

Making Their Own Chinese Fiddles

N abandoned school-
A house in Newark,
New]ersey,where
children were once
taught decorum among
other things is now a
center of instruction in
the science of having
fun! Where young pu-
pils once struggled with
syntax and fractions,
teachers and other adults
now master the intri-
cacies of some little
known and odd musical
instruments.

Here in this modern
“fun factory” directors
of the Recreation Divi-
sion of the Work Proj—
ects Administration of New Jersey are taught to
impart to others the secret of making Wholesome
use of their leisure time through recreational ac-
tivities. Equipped with new ideas, these directors
return to their home communities and share with
boys’ clubs, church groups, and the several other
organizations they serve the knowledge they have
gained in their training course in Newark.

The fun school is under the direction of Wayne
T. Cox, State Director of the Recreation Division,

 
 
 

 

SIN GLE STRING

HAND MADE BOW
.24 x 1%} x '4.

 

 

76

' UNS THRU BOX

 

who with an eye to slim
budgets, has devised
dozens of activities with
inexpensive materials. A
music group has fash-
ioned its own instru-
ments, and among them
are to be found two-
string Chinese fiddles
and cigar box ukuleles.
Recreation leaders are
taught the construction
of these instruments,
and they in turn teach
their own groups at
home how to make them.
The real advantage of
these instruments, the
instructors have found,
is that in addition to the

almost negligible cost for which they can be made,
anyone even though unfamiliar with music can
learn to play them with ease.

Making Chinese Fiddles

The Chinese fiddle shown in the illustration is
made of scrap materials—a cigar box and broom-

I!

H ORSEHA IR
STRING

CIGAR Box

1

(Continued on page 133)

TWO CRESCENT Clll’ 0073

  
 
   
 
 
   

  

SovNDlHG

Posr )3," DOWEL
GLUED To TOP
AND BOTTOM

 

A Gypsy Round-Up

S THERE A CHILD who hasn’t in his secret heart

I wished, at some time, that he might be a

gypsy? The careless, gay, colorful gypsy who
wanders about the world leading a glamorous, ad-
venturous life?

The tales told by parents and oldsters about
their adventures and of running for home when
the gypsies came to town have added an element
of glamour to the imagery of the Romany bands.

Three years ago we cast about for some special
event to pick up the lagging interest of the children
on the playgrounds. The regular playground sea-
son was over, but all the larger grounds were
being kept open until the opening of school. We
had had play days, folk dance festivals, and all
our special days for competitive athletics, so we
were anxious to find something a little different.

A gypsy round-up seemed to be the answer, and
so plans were set in motion for a full day of being
gypsies. As previously mentioned, this was near
the end of the summer and after the closing of the
regular playground program, so our expectations
were not too high as to the ultimate outcome.

The weather man gave us a perfect day and the
children did the rest. Such a gypsy encampment
has never been seen! Hundreds of children in
brightly colored dress were trooping over the
grounds. Smoke from the fires curled lazily into

By

FREDA S. COMBS
Decatur. lllinois

lt's undeniably true
that it takes a long
time to prepare a
gypsy stew. but with
s u c h a r e w a r d
ahead who could
mind waiting?

the air. Music—music everywhere! Singing, har-
monicas, ukes, banjos, violins—anything that could
be brought with the children. Games, storytelling
and folk dancing, as well as a treasure hunt, filled
the day to overflowing.

The children pronounced this one of the happiest
days of the summer, so it was decided to make it
an annual affair, staging it during the regular play-
ground season. Last summer we held our third
annual gypsy round-up with the children still as
enthusiastic as they were the first year.

Making Our Preparations

In planning for the event a special bulletin was
prepared for the playgrounds giving the date, time,
place, and information regarding the activities.
The grounds were grouped in four divisions, With
the playgrounds in close proximity in each divi-
sion. A route was marked out so that by the time
the children neared the camp ground most of the
gypsies were trekking in in a long line. Some
walked, some came in old wagons, and some in
cars. They were encouraged to walk if they were
not too far from the encampment. This, of course,
attracted a great deal of attentionfrom the towns-
people.

Junior leaders and mothers, who had become
interested in the round-up, gathered the vegetables
from the children and preceded the main group
to begin preparations for the gypsy stew.

In the bulletin which had been prepared the
children were requested to bring vegetables, bread

77

78 A GYPSY ROUND-UP

and butter sandwiches, and their own bowls and
spoons. The directors purchased the meat as their
share of the meal. We were fortunate in having a
man on our staff who for years had followed the
fairs over the midwest and south as cook for con-
cession stands. He was appointed chief cook and
was on hand when the first lire was built, staying
until the last kettle was scoured and the grounds
clean and in order.

Four fires were built and a large iron kettle
placed over each. Into the kettles went first the
meat and vegetables that required the most time
for cooking. Then the other vegetables and the
seasoning followed in due time. Long sticks, with
the bark peeled off, were used to stir the stew.
The aroma of the cooking filled the air and drew
many a wandering gypsy to the campfire to gaze
at the kettles boiling and bubbling merrily away.

The Gypsies Arrive !

When the children arrived at the encampment
they went immediately to their tribal headquarters.
These were marked out with signs and were
located in the shade of clumps of trees, each some
distance from the others. Here they could leave
their bowls and sandwiches. A tribal name was
selected when all had gathered, and the play—
grounds were designated by that name the rest of

the day.

During the morning the boys competed in events
of skill to determine the gypsy king and crown
prince. The girls, as is the custom with gypsies
everywhere, were there to cheer their favorite

contestants on to victory.
The contests were as fol-
lows: Ring Master, Knee
Fencing, Bean Bag Grab,
One Legged Race and
Jump the Canyon. Here
are the events, elimina-
tions and awarding of

points. i

1. Boys 14-17 years: “Ring
Master” (eliminate to
four boys)

2. Boys 10—13 years: “Knee
Fencing” (eliminate to '
four boys)

3. Boys 14-18 years: “Bean
Bag Grab” for winners
of event 1

Boys 10-13 years: “Bean
Bag Grab” for winners
of event 2

4. All ages “One Legged Race”
5. All ages “Jump the Canyon”

Events 3, 4 and 5 drew points to winners as
follows: First place each event—loo points; sec-
ond place each event—50 points. Tribesman hold-
ing the highest total of points was declared king

of the gypsies, and second highest holder became
crown prince.

The gypsy queen and princess were selected
from the standpoint of costume. The two children
most nearly depicting the typical gypsy were
chosen for the honor.

At 12:00 o’clock came the anticipated gypsy
feed!

When the dinner gong sounded all were ready
with bowl and spoon and the exclamations of sat-
isfaction more than repaid the cooks for their
morning over the hot fires. If you have never
tasted a gypsy stew prepared in an iron kettle over
an open fire there is one little teeny corner of your
being that has not yet come to life!

After “gypsy feed” the king and queen, princess
and crown prince were crowned to preside over
the gypsies for the rest of the day.

Then came storytelling—stories of adventure as
befitted a gypsy gathering. Here under one tree
could be seen a group of children listening to a
story; there under a clump of maples was a group
strumming a guitar and singing. The smoke from

(Continued on page 126)

There was music everywhere. coming
from instruments of many varieties

 

Day by Day on Last Summer's Playgrounds

The daily program on a summer playground is by no means made
up of spectacular and novel events, but ways must be found of
making it interesting to the children by the introduction of
activities which they enjoy. Here are a few suggestions for
the day-by-day program which come from the experiences of a
number of cities in conducting their playgrounds last summer.

A Summer Nature Program
By SAM GUNDY

HE PLAN DESCRIBED here has been successfully

‘ Tused on the Reading playgrounds where not

only the nature specialist but the playground
directors are active in promoting the program.

Part I
A Traveling Museum

This museum can be established by using an old
automobile or truck to carry a load of cages, crates,
and bottles of live animals and stuffed and pre-
served animal and plant life. The museum with
its “cargo” can travel from one playground to
another, spending a designated amount of time on
each one. The nature specialist can exhibit his
materials and lecture on them. A collection of
supplementary pictures is always a help, and the
greatest value is derived from this museum if the
children are permitted to become familiar with the
materials by handling them and asking questions.

Reading’s Traveling Museum made five visits
to the city’s thirty—two playgrounds. Each visit
had a special program. The children were notified
about a week in advance what the museum would
feature. An attractive bulletin was posted which
had been made by the playground leader. It
showed a picture or drawing of the outstanding
member of the cargo and
the date and time that the
museum would arrive. Both
young and old turned out
for a visit.

The five visits featured
the following: .

The Snakes of Berks County.
Timber rattlesnakes, cop-
perheads, three species of
black snakes (pilot, racer,

The plan outlined here by Mr. Gundy, who
is the nature specialist of the Reading, Pa.,
Department of Public Playgrounds and
Recreation' is presented in two parts:
Part I is designed for the use of recrea-
tion departments that are in a position
to employ nature specialists. (lt funds are
not available for such workers possibly
volunteers can be found.)
arranged that the plan may be used by
leaders who are not trained as specialists.

ring—necked), milk, garter, queen, water, Dekay’s,
ribbon, hog-nosed, etc. (All alive)

The material shown included many colored
pictures, preserved specimens, snake cast, skins,
head bones showing fangs and teeth, instructions
for caring for snake bite, and a lecture with a
myriad of facts on snakes. Several other forms of
life were also featured.

Bats. At least three species of live bats were
shown ranging in number from 85 to 125. (These
animals do not live long in captivity and so must
be liberated every two or three days and new
specimens caught.)

Reptiles of the United States. Live specimens of
every “type” of venomous snake in the United
States were exhibited. Many non-venomous snakes
were also shown, and there were a number of
species of turtles, a half dozen species of lizards,
and an alligator.

Bugs. Butterflies, Beetles. Birds. Several hundred
specimens of local insects were used; local birds
were studied, and charts and pictures were shown.
Children greatly enjoy nature quizzes, and we
gave them quizzes based on the material previ-
ously presented by the Traveling Museum. It is
valuable in determining how much the children
are benefiting by the museum visits.

Mammals. Miscellaneous -— opossums, flying
squirrels, mice, etc. Special demand for a review
of certain parts of informa-
tion presented at former
visits determined the nature
of the material given on this
last visit. A great many new
specimens were also in-
cluded.

NOTE: Live material brings
the best results.

Cave Creatures. Other
visits might be concerned

79

Part II is so

80 DAY BY DAY ON LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNDS

with cave creatures and cave formations; some
cave creatures other than bats. Formations such
as stalactites, stalagmites, crystals, dripstone,
bacon slices, and minerals are interesting.

Marine Lite. Plants and animals of fresh and
salt water.

Botany. Study of local trees, wild flowers, out-
standing plant diseases; how to make collections of
wood, leaves, photographs, spatter prints, blue—
prints, smudge or smoke prints.

Indian Artifacts and other materials made from
nature; could include nature craft.

Nature Craft. How to make plaster of Paris
casts of bird and animal tracks; creatures from
pine cones, twigs, acorns, nuts and galls; bird—
houses and feeding stations, bird baths, and simi-
lar articles.

The material for traveling museum visits is
nearly inexhaustible and offers many opportunities
for originality.

The bibliography at the end of the outline will
suggest places to purchase materials for those
people who do not have the time to catch or make

their own.

Part II

Nature Projects Which Can Be Conducted by
the Play Leader on the Individual Playground

Hikes for the study of birds, trees, wild flowers,
insects, pond life, rocks and minerals, and nature
study in general.

Among the projects in nature craft are: Na-
ture craft creatures; nature book ends, pen hold-
ers, and ash trays of plaster of Paris with animal
tracks or plant impressions; pins, bracelets, neck-
laces of seeds (watermelon, cantaloupes, pump-
kin, squash, etc.), corn, acorn, peculiar twigs.

Soap Carving. Models or pictures cut from a
cake of soap.

Metal Cratt. Models formed or pictures ham-
mered in metal foils.

Collections. Leaves, insects, rocks and minerals,
spatter prints, and plaster of Paris casts.

Nature Stories. Fables and myths, true stories,
personal experiences, etc.

Conservation. Instruction may be given in the
following: Proper use of parks, woods, and coun-
tryside; value of birds; proper way to gather wild
flowers; value of so—called vermin (hawks, owls,
vultures) ; sensible hunting, fishing, and trapping;
and the proper use of B-B guns and .22 rifles.

Overnight Hikes. Become acquainted with the
more unknown side of nature; learn of nature’s
night creatures; study layman astronomy.

Nature Museum. Placement and exhibition of
children’s achievements to create a greater interest
and for study.

Sources of Information

For Purchasing Materials

Snake King, Brownsville, Texas
(Reptiles, mammals, birds)

Everglades Reptile Exchange, Dunnellon, Florida
(Reptiles, frogs and toads, mammals)

Ross Alle, Silver Springs, Florida
(Reptiles, animals, preserved specimens)

Ward’s Natural Science Establishment, Inc., Rochester,
New York
(Nature and science materials in general; rocks and
minerals; preserved specimens; insects; collecting
equipment; books)

General Biological Supply House, Chicago, Illinois
(Anything and everything in general in scientific
equipment and specimens)

For Lecture Information

On Reptiles—books by Raymond L. Ditmars
Nature C ollections—Boy Scouts of America

On Insects—books by L. 0. Howard, Comstock,
Wheeler, Fabre

The Book of le'ld Pets—Clifford B. Moore

Natural History of the World—Ernest Protheroe
Ornithology—Chapman, Hornaday, Peattie, Andrews
The American Natural History—Horna-day
Geology—Lyell, Mills, LeConte

Zoology—Beebe, Ashton, Curtis and Guthrie, Newman

Why Not Write Your
Own Play?

By AGNES HAAGA
New York City

COUNTLESS HOURS are spent by directors of
amateur dramatic groups on playgrounds and
in community centers in search for plays. Often
after a long hunt you find a suitable play only to
discover that a royalty is attached, a very small
one, I admit, but nevertheless forbidden by your
limited budget.

How many recreation directors have considered
solving the problem by putting their drama club to
work creating its own play, or adapting stories
into plays to fit the peculiar talents and ages of
the group? Here is a marvelous opportunity for

DAY BY DAY ON LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNDS 81

self expression and a chance to capitalize upon the
imagination of not one but many authors.

Someone, perhaps the director, in a subtle sug—
gestive manner, starts the ball to rolling with an
idea or theme. That sets the minds and imagina-
tion of all to work. Dialogue, action, stage busi-
ness come tumbling forth to be discussed, changed
and rechanged, and inserted here and there in the
fast-developing plot.

This is the story behind our group-written play
on Goodhue Playground, Staten Island, New
York, sponsored by the Children’s Aid Society.

It was an extremely hot July afternoon on the
playground, two o’clock to be exact, the hour set
aside for the Senior Girls’ Drama Club. The
prospect for an enthusiastic meeting was none too
.~ great. The play reading committee, selected from
among the members of the club, had returned
from the public library empty—handed. The library
could hardly be to blame for this dilemma. The
club members themselves, ranging in age from
fifteen to eighteen years of age, were in a quandary
over the type of play they wanted to present. Half
were in favor of a “snappy” comedy with a college
setting. The others wanted to try a fairy tale fan-
tasy. No wonder the poor librarian was at a loss
as to what to suggest!

“Why not a fairy tale with all the snap of a
modern comedy?” I suggested. “Broadway swung
the ‘Mikado, Why not do the same with Grimm. A
parody On a popular fairy tale would be just the
thing.”

“But where will we find one ?” came the com-
plaint.

“We will write it ourselves,” was the answer.

The enthusiasm of the daring girls overcame the
hesitancy of the timid few, and the remainder of
the afternoon was one of the most enjoyable and
stimulating I have spent with a playground group.
The air buzzed with questions and suggestions.

“Which fairy tale shall we take?” “Which is
most popular ?” “Cinderella is myfavorite.” “Sleep-
ing Beauty is mine.” “I like Snow White and
Rose Red.” “What about Snow White and the
Seven Dwarfs?” “Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs! . . . just the thing.”

“Oh,” the lament arose, “but the dwarfs were
little men and we are all girls.”

“We’ll change them to something else,” I sug-
gested.

“But what? College girls? . . . Jitterbugs? . . .
JITTERBUGS I”

So “Snow White and the Seven Jitterbugs” was

conceived, and we were off, everyone talking at
the same time and laughing good-naturedly at her
own and others’ ideas.

Lyrics of popular songs were rewritten to en-
liven the plot. The secret of Snow White’s beauty,
which the Queen so jealously envied, was Lux
soap. The Three Little Fishes, not the legendary
woodland creatures, came to Snow White’s aid in
cleaning up the house where she sought refuge
from the Mad Russian hired by the Queen to do
away with the princess. Dopey, who, of course,
had to remain speechless, was allowed to exPress
his thoughts on a fiddle, thus capitalizing upon the
musical talent of one of the group. The Prince,
the only male member of the cast, in full cowboy
regalia rode"in on a hobby horse to the stirring
music of the “William Tell Overture” and a loud
“Hi Yo, Snow White.” The dwarfs, now jitter-
bugs, came trucking home from school in slacks
and beer jackets. Poor Snow White, upon taking
a bite of the Queen’s big apple, is doomed to be a
jitterbug the rest of her life. Of course the timely
arrival of the Prince saved her from such an ex-
hausting fate. The play itself was written in. three
afternoons, an act each meeting, under the shade
of the playground trees. Soon rehearsals were
under way. Even then new ideas and lines pop-
ped up and were included in the script. The imagi-
nation is a strange article, so deep and evasive at
the first attempts to be stirred, but once aroused
a bottomless treasure chest.

Dances were eventually included in the par-
ody. A portable combination phonograph and
radio machine provided the music for the dance
interludes as well as the background music.

Costumes and scenery were executed by the
cast. The older boys handled props, scenery and
lights.

Following the program, the scenery was quickly
whisked aside, and actors and audience enjoyed
open—air dancing to recorded music.

The parody proved a success. It was difficult to
say who enjoyed themselves more: the members
of the cast or those sitting in the audience. The
Staten Island Advance began their newspaper ac-
count of the program with the following para-
graphs:

“Walt Disney produced a success called ‘Snow

White and the Seven Dwarfs,’ and last night the
children of Goodhue Playground, New Brighton, pre-
sented a hit parody, ‘Snow White and the Seven Jit-
terbugs.’

“Only a skeleton of the original plot remained in
the swing version, written by members of the Senior

82 DAY BY DAY ON LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNDS

Drama Club of the playground,
but a crowd estimated at 1,000
applauded the youngsters loud
and long for their modern adapta-

"Have you tried the plan of offering a
sewing unit as a part of your summer
recreation program?" asks Miss Mary

F. BalclelliI Home Economics teacher in
tion.” St. CloudI Minnesota. who has tried it

was made up of thirteen to
fifteen year old girls. The
average attendance was thirty-
eight.

very successfully. "lf not." she adds. St- CIOUd has fourteen

Aside from the fact that
the play provided heaps of
fun for actors and audience
alike, the more satisfying ele-
ment from a recreation director’s viewpoint was
the outlet it offered for the creative talents and
cooperation of the troupe.

The next time your dramatic group is faced
with the problem of play finding, why not let the
members write their own drama, whether it be a
comedy, a tragedy, or a swing version of a time-
honored fairy tale?

Your own enthusiasm and belief in the possi-
bility of such a venture will go far to make it a
success.

"Sew What?”

0R. SEVERAL YEARS St. Cloud, Minnesota, has

had a recreation program sponsored by the
Board of Education. Last spring a number of
P.T.A. members asked the city’s recreation di-
rector, Mr. V. Morrison, if it would not be possi-
ble to have a class in sewing for the girls. Ac-
cordingly a class was organized which started its
sessions on June 10th and continued for nine
weeks. Classes were held four and a half days a
week from 8 :30 to II :30 in the morning and from
I :00 to 4:00 in the after-
noon.

During the nine week
period ninety-five girls
were enrolled, and it was
a real privilege to teach
sewing to girls who were
taking it up’because they
were interested and not
because it was a required
subject. Some of the girls
came all day, others long
enough to make a dress
, or two, while still others
attended a few weeks be-
fore going on vacation.
Although the course was
open to all, the age range
was from seven to seven-
teen. The largest group

"you will be surprised to Fund how
popular it will be not only with the
girls but with their mothers as well."

 

Courtesy WPA,’ Philadelphia, Pa.

schools, and girls came from
all of them. In addition, there
were girls from the parochial
schools which do not offer a

course in home economics in the junior high schools.

As this was to be a class in recreational sewing,
there was no formal teaching, and all instruction
was individual. The older girls were very glad to
help the younger ones run the machines, operate
the buttonhole attachment and other equipment.

Some of the completed projects included sport
outfits, aprons, housecoats, pajamas, dresses, laun-
dry bags, dish towels, embroidery work, sun suits,
children’s clothes, doll dresses, crocheting, chair
backs, and remodeling of coats. At the end of! the
season we had I37 completed projects.

As a grand finale a style show and exhibit was
held in the school auditorium which was open to
the public. At this exhibit the work of the manual
training, art, and weaving classes was also shown.
Music was furnished by the summer recreation
band, and to climax the program a short play was
given by the dramatic group.

Many favorable comments were received from
the mothers and school officials, and the program
will be continued next year. No expense other
than the instructor’s salary was involved as the
Board of Education gave the group the use of a
room equipped with eight
sewing machines, an iron-
ing board, long tables for
cutting, and smaller sew-
ing equipment.

Playing Indians

By LOLA ROBINSON
Booker Washington
Center
Rockford. Illinois

WE BASED our summer
program last year
on a study of the Indians

who once lived in our
Winnebago County. This

DAY BY DAY ON LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNDS 83

Results achieved
by Vancouver's
young craftsmen

are a revelation
to their friends

program provid-
ed constructive
activities, indi-
vidual training in
‘skills, opportun-
ity to dance and
sing—in fact, to find joy and adventure in our
five-week vacation school period.

The one hundred twenty-five boys and girls
who came to our playground daily lived a make—
believe Indian life that developed creative ability
and furnished opportunity for self-expression.
They enjoyed group singing of Indian songs:
“Old John Brown' Had a Little Indian” for fun;
“Indian Love Call” for harmony. Their singing
attracted many visitors to the morning assemblies.

Indian designs were used by the boys in the
craft room; Indian costumes were made by the
girls in the sewing classes. In each case, the wood
for the craft work, the burlap for the costumes,
and feathers for the head bands were brought by
the children. The little tots learned to beat out the
rhythm on tom-toms made by the older boys. The
girls danced to “Red Wing” and Victor Herbert’s
“Natoma.”

The older children spent time at the library
reading about the Winnebago and Sinnissippi In-
dians who once lived in this section, visited Indian
mounds in some of our public parks, and some
even visited the monument of Chief Blackhawk
only a short distance away.

Parents and children came to the pot luck sup-
per on the playground one late afternoon. Some
of the children came in costume and all came with
feathers in their hair or headpieces. A huge bon-
fire was lighted at dusk and the “Indians” danced
and “war-whooped” around it. i

The closing program dedicated to Joseph Lee
was presented at night in an auditorium. There
was the pageant, “We Visit an Indian Village.”

 

There was the “Big Chief,” with the Indians per-
forming a war dance. There were singing, group
dancing, a sun ceremonial. The program closed
with a patriotic scene in which all the Indians
joined the Boy Scouts and audience in community
singing.

We found that the use of a definite theme of
interest to the children gave an outlet for ability
in dramatics and dancing, and provided an oppor-
tunity to discover specific talent in the group.

Our summer playground program was adven-
ture and fun!

A Sand Box Contest

By MARJORIE SHORNEY

Supervisor of Playgrounds
Vancouver. British Columbia

ONE OF THE major activities on the playgrounds
of Vancouver, British Columbia, is an an-
nual sand box contest. _One week is set aside for
preliminary judging and one day for final judging.
During the week the sand box is the setting for

whatever displays the children may choose to show
there.

Rules of the Contest

I. The display must be designed and made by the
children.

2. All articles shown must be made in the hand-

craft classes from wood, paper, and similar
material.

84 DAY BY DAY ON LAST SUMMERS PLAYGROUNDS

3. The display must be ready fifteen minutes be-
for the judging takes place.

Displays will be judged on "the following:

I. Difficulty of design

(a) Characteristics expressed

(b) Proportion

(c) Action (does it seem alive?)

2. Craftsmanship

(a) Attention to detail

(b) Age of contestants
3. Neatness
4. Material used

Articles shown are made from such materials
as soap, asbestos, pipe cleaners, corrugated card-
board, raffia, cellophane, and wood.

The six displays awarded the highest points dur-
ing the contest are set up in temporary boxes pro-
vided for the purpose on the promenade walk
which adjoins one of the playgrounds. On the
day of the judging the finalists are given until
three o’clock to prepare their entries for the final
judging. Four prominent citizens serve as judges
for the afternoon, and newspaper reporters and
photographers are also invited to be present. The
projects are left on display until eight o’clock to
enable the general public to see them. Many in-
terested spectators come to see the young archi-
tects set up their exhibits, for the skill and ac-
curacy with which they work is a revelation to
many of the onlookers.

Storytelling and Dramatics
in Danville

STORYTELLING and drama were among the most
successful activities on the playground pro-
gram of Danville, Illinois, during the summer of
1940. It began with the training of the women
playground leaders in storytelling and simple dra-
matics given during the
week preceding the opening

through meetings and storytelling hours. Officers
were elected during the second week to serve as
assistants to the playground leader. Their duties
consisted of advertising their club by posters and
bulletins, talking to children who did not belong
to the club, making announcements about the vari-
ous evening programs, and being of general assist-
ance to the playground leader in charge.

Since each playground always gave an evening
entertainment once a week, the dramatic clubs
were called on to give skits, readings, pantomimes, '
and other dramatics activities as a part of these
programs. They were also asked to serve as
storytellers on their grounds during the story
hours for smaller children. This they were glad
to do, particularly in view of the fact that it
gave them an opportunity to dress in costume.
Later in the summer the best storytellers from
all the playgrounds were selected to act as a troupe
of gypsy storytellers. In this capacity they visited
all of the playgrounds in the city for an afternoon

,of storytelling for smaller children. This was an
"‘extra-special” occasion which provided an op-

portunity for dressing up and alSo for demonstrat-
ing storytelling ability. It was a means, too, of
securing new members for the dramatic clubs, and
at this time the plays selected for final production
were announced.

All dramatic groups selected their plays with
the help of the leader and the special supervisor.
The plays selected were first read to the entire
group. This was followed by try-outs and the
final selection of the cast. Each main character
had an understudy as a protection against the
always inevitable late summer vacation planned
by parents without the knowledge of the children;
on many of the playgrounds this proved to be a
“play saver” and made it possible for the show
to go on. After the selection of the cast re-
hearsals were held, and each group gave its play

at two other playgrounds in
addition to the final show

of the playgrounds by an
experienced teacher who
also supervised 'the pro.
grams during the summer.

During the first week of
the season a great deal of
emphasis was placed on the
organization of dramatic
clubs on each playground.
This was accomplished

While dramatic clubs call for a great deal
of organization. publicity and leadership.
the leader is amply repaidI in the opinion
of George A. Fairheadl Superintendent of
Recreation in Danville' because of the help
the clubs provide. not only in putting on
programs but in discipline problems. in in-
creased attendance and participation in
other activities. "We find." says Mr. Fair-
head."that many benefits are derived by the
children in the dramatic groups that they do
not get from other playground activities."

on its own closing program.
Before the end of the
season each playground se-
lected the outstanding story-
teller to compete in a city-
wide storytelling contest.
Participants were judged on
the selection of the story,
delivery, voice, ability to hold
interest, and costume.

DAY BY DAY ON LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNUS 85

Family Nights
In Santa Barbara

HURSDAY AFTERNOONS and evenings during the

summer months were dedicated to the “family”
in Santa Barbara, California, and Oak Park be—
came the scene of large scale picnicking, music and
games. Often five hundred people, eighty per cent
of whom were families, attended the evening get-
togethers.

Children and parents came to play volleyball,
shuffleboard, deck tennis, horseshoe pitching, pro-
gressive ring toss and croquet. In the bright-
lighted park hundreds of people cooked their sup-
per at the barbecue pits and then spent the even-
‘ing playing or dancing. For those who tired of
active sports, a special WPA orchestra of thirty-
five pieces provided a two-hour music concert.
And when the family program was over, the
mothers, fathers, and children of Santa Barbara
went home together.

' The Recreation Commission, Park Commission,
and W PA cooperated in this venture to increase
the use of the city’s park and recreational equip-
ment as a service to the family. Emphasis was
placed on the home unit and recreation programs
were planned in terms of family needs.

Commenting on this trend toward family recre-
ation, the Santa Barbara News-Press said, “All
of this is a healthy development in the direction
of the best kind of Americanism. In time of
world emergency the energies and interests of the
nation are focused upon. preparedness and pro-
tection. But the thing to protect is the American
family. . . . Projects and activities that sustain the
family unit of civilization are among the greatest
services that communities can offer their nation.

“Santa Barbara’s planned program to promote
_family group activities and the joining of the
whole family in recreation and enjoyment of the
out-of—doors is a simple community effort. But,
it is the type of community
endeavor that—if carried
out throughout the United
States—will give a strength
back of preparedness and
protection without which
the outward, material show
of force is a dead thing—

little better than an unman-
ned fortification.”

demonstrations.

Peter J. MayersI Superintendent of Rec-
reation. New Rochelle. New York. tells
of last summer's campaign to make the
playground children of that city "safety
conscious" through the use of practical
"We acquainted them
with the dangers existing at street cor-
ners." he says. ''We showed them how,
when. and where to cross. and made them
realize that accidents can be avoided."

A "Stay-on-the-Sidewalk”
Safety Campaign

IN PREPARATION for our safety program we pro-
vided the necessary equipment for instruction
by'supplying toy passenger vehicles, toy trucks,
and st0p and go signals. Then we set up on the
playgrounds wooden frames which represented
intersections. The playground director instructed
the children in various situations arising at such
intersections. The first situations presented were
simple. After that came more complicated condi-
tions. The children were asked what procedure
should be taken in each case, and they manipulated
the cars and signs used in instruction. All mis—
takes were corrected by the playground director.

The children became intensely interested when
they were made a part of the program and realized
that they, too, had a responsibility for being help-
ful to others by being careful themselves. A short
story was told as an example of what injuries re—
sulted to children who were careless and un-
mindful in crossing streets. Example: a ball rolling
into the street.

Our campaign lasted for two weeks, and at the
completion of the instruction period the play-
ground leader gave a test to see who was the best
“safety child” on the playground. This child was
awarded a certificate of safety entitling him to
enter the city-wide contest which was held later.
Awards of toy automobiles were given.

The contest was carried on in cooperation with
the New Rochelle Safety Council and the awards
were made by oflicials from the National Safety
Council. The contest was very successful. The
highly colored toys were of great interest to the
children, and when they found they could move
them around their interest was intensified. The
campaign bore fruit in cutting downchild accidents

at crossings.

Notes from Here

and There

The Problem of Awards.

The Albany, New York,
playground system has ex-
perienced an evolution in its
plan for awards from indi-
vidual to park awards, and

86 DAY BY DAY ON LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNDS

since our entire philosophy
is based on mass participa-
tion, we have found the
park award the most suita—
ble for our organization.
Under this procedure a
park banner plan is utilized
whereby the winning teams
in each of the sectional ac—
tivities are awarded the ban-
ner for that sport—volley-
ball, clock golf, jacks, arch-
ery, checkers, softball, horseshoes, relay carnival,
‘ or vehicle carnival. The individual banner is dis—
played in the winning park for the entire season.
Along with these specific athletic awards. there
has been instituted a general award known as the
“outstanding park of the week award,” and the

exact status."

winner is chosen by a vote of the supervisory.

staff. The choice is based on achievement in all
phases of the playground program, and each staff
supervisor is permitted to select three parks in the
order of his choice. A concensus of all the votes
determines first, second and third choices.

The play leaders in charge of the winning staff
are interviewed at Radio Station WOKO, together
with the winning teams of the week. Thus,
through the medium of the radio, it has been pos-
sible for both leaders and children to give the
public in their own words the story of Albany’s
playgrounds.

The press of the city is also extremely coopera—
tive, and contributes much to the success of the
playground venture. Through this medium, as
well as through the radio, we have been able to
notify children and adults of the many opportuni-
ties the city provides on its playgrounds.

Doing Their Part! Children of the playgrounds
of Hamilton, Canada, last summer had their part
in furthering what is known as the “Canadian
War Effort.” Each supervisor was asked to im-
press upon the children through talks, classes, dis—
cussion groups, poster campaigns, and similar

means the need for personal sacrifice and effort. .

Posters relating to the Red Cross, War Savings
Stamps, and loyalty to the Empire were kept con-
tinually before the children. The boys and girls
and the supervisors raised money for the Ca-
nadian Red Cross through contributions, sales of
cake, candy, photographs of teams, Howers, and
articles made on the playgrounds, through enter-
tainments, and services to neighbors. The girls

"The problem of awards has been 'booted
around' so much in the past ten years.‘I
says Frederick F. Futterer, Director of Rec-
reationI Board of Education, Albany, New
YorkI "and there are so many divergent
opinions that it is difficult to determine its
Mr. Futterer tells of the
plan adopted on the Albany playgrounds
whereby. in addition to material awards in
the form of bannersI opportunity is pro-
vided to secure social approval through
the medium of the radio and the press.

devoted a major part of
their handcraft program to
the knitting of scarves and
other articles.

The children, through the
methods suggested, raised
$50.36; the staff through
contributions, $21.00. Forty-
seven scarves and other
knitted articles were made.

Bookmobile for Playgrounds.
The Public Library of Chi—
cago, by hitching an automobile trailer to one of
its cars, has transformed it into a bookmobile for
playgrounds. Intended primarily as a service to
playgrounds where children congregate during the
summer months, the little bookmobile, scarcely six
feet long and with a correspondingly limited shelf
capacity, continues scheduled visits as long as
weather permits. The playgrounds selected are
usually far removed from library branches. Chil-
dren’s librarians are drafted for the trip and a
male junior assistant doubles as a chauffeur.

A Safety Song Contest. During the summer of
1940, in connection with Playground Safety Week,
the Montreal, Canada, Parks and Playgrounds
Association sponsored a safety song composing
competition in cooperation with the Province of
Quebec Safety League. The awards to winners
were presented at a huge rally which took place on
August 27th at Fletcher’s Field in Montreal.
About twelve thousand people attended. The win-
ners sang their songs, which were then flashed on
a screen and sung by the audience. The program
ended with the showing of safety movies. One of
the six winning songs was written by a fourteen
year old girl to the tune of “Oh! Johnny, Oh!”

Playground Pageants in St. Louis. The influence
of the St. Louis Municipal Opera is significantly
reflected in the activities of the boysand girls on
the Board of Education playgrounds through their
local and city—wide pageants. As a fitting climax
to the entire playground season, local pageants are
given on each individual playground, with the
patrons in each community cooperating with their
local playground staff. These local pageants
usually have a fairy story theme with a generous
sprinkling of brilliantly costumed dancers. Al—
though other events, such as tumbling, musical
activities, and boxing are introduced between the

episodes, the main features of these presentations '

‘ (Continued on page 125)

Some Special Events on l940 Playgrounds

The time comes on every playground when the children want to
entertain their families and friends with a “diyferent” or “special” event
which will show the importance of the activities they have been enjoy-
ing. This is particularly true of the closing event of the playground sea-
son. Whether a festival, a pageant, or a circus, it’s always a gala occasion!

Recreation Goes Hollywood
—in Hollywood

By RENA E. FOXWORTHY
Director of Girls' and Women's Activities
Poinsettia Playground

duction studio in Hollywood is one of Los

Angeles’ busiest community playgrounds, the
Poinsettia Recreation Center, serving the people
who live and work in this colorful section of a
large city.

Beneath the glamour and tinsel of Hollywood
are the sincerity and friendliness of folks who
might be found in any community of the nation.
Hollywood people, like all others, enjoy singing,
dancing and gaiety, and, like all other Americans
in this day, they have a deep appreciation of the
liberty and freedom that this country gives to
everyone.

But Hollywood people also like to do things
with a flair, and “colossal” is a commonplace ad-
jective in this environment. Accordingly, when
the summer vacation season was drawing to a
close and it was time to present our annual clos-
ing program, we wanted to do something new,
different and timely.

Suddenly I recalled how I had felt back in the
summer of 1936 on the first morning of my visit
to Berlin, Germany. I was awakened by the sound
of marching feet in the street below my hotel
window and on looking out I saw soldiers drilling
-—not grown-up men but
soldiers twelve years of age.
I remembered how thank-
ful I was at the moment
that our own American boys
of that age were playing
tennis, swimming, hiking or
enjoying baseball while

IN THE SHADOW of a great motion pictUre pro-

Recreation departments are constantly on
the search for events to mark the closing
of the summer playground season which
will be original and different. It was no
problem for Los Angeles. for Hollywood,
with its gaiety and color. was close at
hand to suggest ideas for a grand finale
which would have its own special flavor!

these youths were preparing for the grim hor-
rors of war.

Thus was born the idea of an out-of-door fes-
tival which would depict the recreation activities
of Americans in their hours of leisure with the
entire program presented in song and dance.
“America Plays in Swingtime” we decided to call
it, and at once we made plans for the program.

One hundred patrons participated in this show,
the youngest being five years old, the oldest around
sixty. The Mistress of Ceremonies, nine years
old, was costumed as a Drum Majorette. The
stage was erected in the wading pool. Patrons
helped to make the decorations for the setting.
Crepe paper flowers, real shrubbery, two large
artificial swans, underwater lighting and colored
fioodlights made a lovely setting.

We wanted eVerything to be in swingtime, even
the introduction of the songs and dances, so we
j ingled the lines which the Maj orette was to speak.
We found p0pu1ar songs to fit all the dances ex—
cept those for tennis and golf. Our pianist came
to the rescue and wrote these!

The night of the show finally arrived and the
lawn of- the playground was filled with spectators.

.The pianist played “Stars and Stripes,” and the

little Majorette stepped up onto the stage to open
the program.

The new song, “Let’s Keep America the Land
of Liberty,” by CharlesJRoyal, was used as an

opening number by the Majorette. Then she
continued: '

“In this, our Land of Liberty, each one may have his way;
And use in any way he likes, his leisure hours each day.
We give to you this evening, in modern swingtime style,
Some pastimes — recreational,

rwe moderns find worthwhile.

“In summer time a sport we

love, is sitting ’neath a tree;

With fishing rod and tempting
bait, just fishing lazily.
Let’s go fishing—in
Swingtime ——-”

A grOUp of high school
87

88 SOME SPECIAL EVENTS ON 1940 PLAYGROUNDS

boys and girls then came on
the stage and sang and danced.
They carried fishing poles
which they cast into the wad-
ing pool as they danced.

Following this number, the
Majorette introduced the ice
skaters, a group recruited
from the ladies’ gymnasium
class, hunters from the ladies’
ballet class, tennis swingsters
from the Junior High dancing class, and on down
the list of recreation activities. One of the comedy
numbers was: “Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” in
swingtime, done by the youngest members of the
children’s tap class. The women’s tap class did a
soft shoe dance with golf clubs. Even recreational
drama was represented by the adult Poinsettia
Players in “A Swingtime Wedding,” and of
course the great American game of baseball was
not forgotten. The last number showed the latest
style in social dancing.

The Majorette closed with:
“Let’s thank our lucky stars

tonight, for this great

U.S.A.,

festivities when,

"Dearborn Day." celebrated each year
in Dearborn. Michigan. under the aus-
pices of the Department of Recreation
of which Henry D. Schubert is superin-
tendent, has become a very important
event on the recreation calendar. Last
year 27,000 residents gathered to share
in the fourteenth annual Dearborn Day
in addition to the
usual activities of the day, a pageant,
"The American Festival," was presented.

There were pie and watermelon eating con-

tests in which the boys and girls took part
with their hands tied behind their backs!

“Where we can sing and
laugh and dance, and
Peace and Swing hold
sway.”

The entire cast then joined
in singing “My Own United
States” from the opera
“When Johnny Comes March-

ing Home,” and our program
came to a close.

Dearborn Day

ATYPICAL DEARBORN DAY program includes
softball games, horseshoe pitching, volleyball
and many other sports which are played through-
out the day. The teams competing in the various
sports represent playgrounds throughout the city.

The midway, which is a feature of the day, is
planned by the playground children who arrange
for tents, signs, and all the equipment needed for
the acts and the fat lady,
strong man, and all the other
characters who make a mid-

 

‘
l

 

SOJIE SPECIAL EVENTS ON 1940 PLAYGROUNDS

way so fascinating a place. Free outdoor dancing
on a specially constructed platform is also a part
of the program. Refreshment concession booths
are installed in the park by local churches and fra-
ternal organizations.

A typical program includes the following:

10:00 A. M.—Horseshoe Pitching Contests (Juniors,
Seniors)
Midgets’ Softball‘Game (Boys under twelve
years of age)

Softball Game
years of age)
Volleyball Game

years of age)

12:00 Noon—Band Concert
Girls’ Softball Game
Volleyball (Intermediate boys)

1:00 P. M.—Kiddies Midway (Performers are children
selected from the playgrounds)
Puppet Show (Presenting “The
Ranger” and other specialties)
Bicycle Polo Game (Teams made up of
boys from the various playgrounds)
Softball Game (Between two teams from.

the Old Timers League)

2:30 P. M.——Boys under six years (35 yard dash)

Girls under six years (35 yard dash)

Shoe Race (Boys age seven to ten)

Sack Race (Girls age seven to ten)

Leap Frog Race (Boys age eleven to
thirteen)

Chicken Walk (Girls age eleven to thirteen)

Human Wheelbarrow (Boys age fourteen
to sixteen)

Backward Race (Girls age fourteen to six-
teen)

Pie Eating Contest (Boys)

100 Yard Dash (Men)

Locked Arm Race (Young ladies)

Mounted Horse Race (Boys)

Dizzy as the Deans (Married men)

Slipper Kicking (Married ladies)

Fat Men’s Race (Must have 45-inch waist
measurement)

Soap Box Derby (Starting at top of hill)

Wash Day Race (Men and women)

Sack Race (Men)

Cinderella Race (Men and women)

Egg Throwing Contest (Teams of two)

Kiddie Kar Race (Women)

Tug-of—War (Police vs. firemen)
Dearborn’s Largest Family
Youngest. Baby in the Field from

Dearborn

5:30 P. M.—Softball Game (Police

vs. firemen)

6:30 P. M.—Band Concert ,
Softball Games (Two Class A

teams)

6:30-8:00 P. M.—-Outdoor Dancing

11:00 A. M.

 

(Juniors

(Midgets under twelve

Lone

under seventeen

For eleven years Mr. Gerhardt has
been connected with the playground
activities of the city
and during the school year he has
charge of the workshop in the Senior
High School and of the Conserva-
tion Club. which has a membership
of over a hundred boys and girls.

89

 

Courtesy Madison Square Boys' Club, New York City

A Pet and Hobby Show

By ARMIN H. GERHARDT
Neenah. Wisconsin

ANUMBER OF YEARS AGO, in looking about for a
program with which to climax our summer
activities, we hit upon the idea of a pet and hobby
show. We advertised the show through the play-
ground centers, emphasizing the fact that anything
would be welcome as long as it was some variety
of a hobby or pet. The first
year many dogs were entered,
and from this came the idea of
having a dog show in connec-
tion with the general pet and
hobby exhibit.

of NeenahI

A special committee of citi-
zens was appointed to arrange

90 SOME SPECIAL EVENTS ON 1940 PLAYGROUNDS

the dog show. We selected people who were
known to be greatly interested in dogs, and one
member of the committee donated trophies for the
various shows and events. Now we have eighteen
beautiful trophies which are given the best male
and female dog of the show, best sporting group,
non-sporting, best trick dog, best male and female
puppies, best rabbit, cat, and best pets such as
chickens, ducks, pigs, goats, and horses.

All the trophies are engraved with the names of
the winners. They are returned for competition
the next year regardless of the number of times
they are won. In this way the trophies are not
lost and the necessity for replacing them is obvi-
ated. Ribbons are also used—blue for first, red
for second, and white for third.

We have had many exhibits—snakes, bullheads
with humped backs, bees, fiies, two pigs, and
many other animals and insects. For its variety
of dogs our show would 'take the prize! We have
everything from a lap dog to a big Newfoundland.

As this is a show for children, no adults are
permitted to enter pets. At first we had an age
limit of sixteen, but upon the request of many
young pe0ple we raised it to eighteen.

The show grew from year to year, and soon it
was necessary to hold it both in the afternoon and
evening, with the judging in the afternoon and a
parade of champions in which the children who

4'“ \Hrnn-ru-A’x’wlumm-‘E’aux 1)..Vt.f~...(.*r..u«._am.t.c-h-“.m...}....m,,,uymha_ “..u~4.¢,m..a.... .. x.:éb‘.'.w,_A‘¢_u,f-LW

   

had won trophies or ribbons would display their
pets or hobbies.

The show is financed by the sale of refresh-
ments during the afternoons and evenings. In ad-
dition, we have dances which are held in the eve-
ning. If we are unable to raise enough money,
there are always interested citizens who are ready
and willing to make up the deficit.

A valuable feature of the show is the fact that
so many people take part in it, from Grandpa and
Grandma to the youngest member of the family.
All are interested, and there are too the friends of
the exhibitors who help make cages, groom the
pets, mount the hobbies, and assist'in arranging
the various exhibits. They are all on hand to

admire and applaud!

Other Special Events

LAYGROUND Finale at Des Moines. The final
P event of Des Moines’ summer playground sea-
son had for its theme “The Book Shelf in Action.”
It was put on entirely for the fun derived from it
by those participating. No part was planned or
rehearsed until two weeks prior to the perform-
ance. Thus there was no interruption in the reg—

ular activities of the playgrounds. Games, dances,
pantomimes, and

stunts were used

to illustrate vari-
g ous books and
' stories. The pro-
gram was preced-
ed by a concert
presented by all
members of the
playground bands.
About 2,000 took
part in the pro-
gram before an
audience of 8,700

- 
o ‘t 

(Continued on.
page 124)

New York City
 has its soap box
 derby enthusiasts

_ T t
h

    

Courtesy Madison Square Boys’ Club, Now York City

Matinees by Children for Children

THAT CHILDREN need

plays is a conclusion
reached long ago and
one rarely challenged. They
need to see plays, to think
and talk of them, and most
of all to enact them. Al-
though children enjoy see-
ing adult productions of
juvenile plays, boys and
girls long to present their
own. They also long to have
an appreciative audience.
To satisfy these longings of childhood, the Los
Angeles Recreation Department started a season
of children’s matinees almost fourteen years ago.
Under the supervision of Mrs. Emilie Hollington,

the programs met with instant and enthusiastic .

response. She realized the many problems of the
venture, but evolved a technique that has been
successful through the years. Her power to en-
vision and organize made possible the children’s
outdoor playhouse with its regular programs.

Here children found a treasure that was all
their own. They were the actors, the ushers. the
announcers and the stage crew. Even the audience
was composed almost entirely of children. Twice
a month they gathered—three or four hundred
children of the community—to watch the perform-
ance prepared for them. In addition to a play the
program included such numbers as cOStumed folk
dances, boys’ tumbling and pyramid building acts,
pantomimes, songs by a children’s chorus, har-
monica band selections, poetry of verse speaking
choirs or music of a children’s orchestra.

The children who presented the program often
came from a playground in another part of the
city. On their own playground, for a month or six
weeks previous to the scheduled engagement at
the matinee, they rehearsed the play under the
leadership of the regular director. When it was
ready they gave a production for their home
playground audience and then achieved the goal
toward which they had been working—a perform-
ance at the matinee center. In this way children
from many playgrounds had an opportunity to
present plays during the summer.

As interpreted by the children, the plays have a

By MAXINE MCSWEENY

Recreation Director
Department of Playground and Recreation
Los Angeles. California

For a long period of years child-
ren on the public playgrounds of
Los Angeles have been producing
plays which they feel are their
own in a very special sense

sincerity and enthusiasm
which overcomes many a
technical Haw. When they
are not perfect one is glad
to remember Rosabell Mac-
Donald’s comment on the
graphic arts: “If they have
to be born perfect, they’re
apt to be born dead.” And
whatever flaws the matinees
have, they’re very much
alive. To the little actors,
plays are not mere printed
pages but life itself. Real people cross this stage
with their troubles and joys and triumphs. The
director approaches the play in such a way that
the players think of the play as a whole and gain
a deeper understanding of life itself, rather than a
perfunctory knowledge of when to speak and
what to say.

Sometimes a mother is overly concerned with
the importance of being letter perfect and is
afraid lest her child forget his lines. Such a mother
sat on the front row during a play in which her
two little boys were members of a group of vil-
lagers. Just after the villagers entered, the audi-
ence was startled to hear a loud single clap of the
mother’s hands. Instantly her older son shouted,
“Hurrah for the king!” A few speeches, by other
villagers followed. Then two sharp claps were
heard and little brother shouted his line. The
director was as surprised as the audience. But the
children had been waiting for mother’s signals.
Such an approach as this thwarts the real growth
which should come from dramatic participation.

Creating the Stages

So successful was the outdoor playhouse that
after a few years others were organized in widely
separated districts of the city until now there are
weekly matinees at seven centers. Physical aspects
of the outdoor playhouses vary greatly. Two of
them have lovely terraced hillsides with seats for
the audience. Their stages are carefully planted
with shrubbery to create background and mask
entrances. Other centers are little more than
grassy areas ’in some quiet corner of the play-
ground or an adjoining park. One end is arbi-

91

92 MATINEES BY CHILDREN FOR CHILDREN

trarily designated as the stage. Spectators sit on
the grass or on the long low playground benches
just as near the stage as they can get. Such inti-
macy is delightful to them and demands the best
the players have to give.

One outdoor playhouse that has proved very
effective is a plot of grass borrowed from the
library lawn adjoining the playground. The stage
is separated from the audience by a row of
shepherdess crooks set far apart and linked with
low-hanging flower garlands. A giant willow tree
provides a beautiful stage background. For special
occasions the members of the stage crew dress in
elf or Robin Hood costumes, hide in the branches
of the tree, then slide down its trunk to change the
properties at the end of a scene and scamper back
to their leafy retreat.

The most important scenery of all these outdoor
stages is provided by trees and an expanse of blue
sky. Lattice or panelled screens create atmosphere
for the play and conceal actors when off stage.
The use of stage properties is restricted to a few
pieces. Such articles as a throne, Grecian bench,
fireplace, peasant table and stool, tree stump and a
papier-maché rock are always available. These few
properties will suggest almost any scene essential
to the play.

Careful attention to costumes helps create the
stage picture. Costumes are designed and con-
structed at a central workshop and are sent to
every playground several days before a perform-
ance is to be given. They are an inspiration to the
players and a delight to the spectators.

In order to present weekly programs at seven
playhouses, plays are in process of rehearsal at
every playground. Rehearsals held once or twice
a week are part of the regularly scheduled play-
ground program. The matinee provides a goal and
a climax for the routine activities. It exceeds even
the excitement of the home playground perform-
ance. This second performance is as great an edu-
cational opportunity as the first. No sense of
strain remains, and the players, becoming more
completely absorbed in their characters, give their
imaginative and creative powers full sway. And
what a recreational opportunity! The trip to the
matinee center often includes a picnic lunch, a hike
or swim, as well as sightseeing and kindred joys
of travel.

When Emergencies Arise

The old tradition of the theater, that “the show
must go on” is faithfully upheld throughout every

season. Participants must be ready to meet emer-
gencies of all kinds. The problem of transporting
twenty or more children to the matinee center
which may be five miles distant involves careful
planning. A street car journey is ideal if children
can obtain the fare. When the distance is not too
great children enjoy hiking. Frequently a kind
mother will bring her car, and the director usually
presses hers into service.

A few minutes before the time of departure for
one matinee, the director was notified that both
cars promised in advance by patrons would be
needed elsewhere. Her own coupe would accom-
modate only three children. Frantically she tried
to think of some means of transportation for eigh-
teen children. It was too late to take a street car.
Desperate, she called the police station. When she
told the desk sergeant her difficulties and asked if
the police department could possibly send her two
cars, he dutifully replied that such aid was not in
the line of police duty. She kept talking. Whether
it was her logic or the harrassed tone of her voice
which made the appeal successful will never be
known! In a few minutes two big, black police
cars with an officer at the wheel of each one ar-
rived at the playground. Children swarmed in and
to the tune of screeching sirens were escorted to
their destination. No Broadway star ever made a
more dramatic arrival at the theater. And yes,
those officers came back at the end of the show to
return their charges safely to the home play-
ground!

Another type of emergency is encountered when
some member of the cast fails to appear. But even
that must be faced. In a recent production of
“The Golden Goose,” Jack, the leading character,
caught the mumps and was unable to notify the
director until an hour before curtain time. Other
members of the cast, already waiting at the play-
ground, went into a hasty huddle. Soon they
realized that the King knew the entire play so well
that he could play Jack’s part. But what about a
King? The High Chancellor, always in attendance
upon his Majesty, but with very few lines to speak,
could play the King’s role. A little page, whose
only dramatic opportunity had consisted of carry-
ing the King’s train, said he could be the High
Chancellor. Away they went and what a perform-
ance they gave! The three players with new parts
acted within an inch of their lives and made up
their own speeches when they couldn’t remember
the author’s. The only noticeable loss was the
dragging of the King’s train.

MATINEES BY CHILDREN FOR CHILDREN 93

Even though these last minute adjustments are
heroically made, they cause delays and our audi—
ences must not be kept waiting. In fact, they
probably would not be kept waiting. They are not
like the famous audience in Seattle that sat and
waited four hours because Katharine Cornell’s
train was late and then joyfully watched her entire
performance of “The Barretts of W impole Street”
which ended at three o’clock in the morning! Our
spectators would have been called home by

prudent parents.

The Storyteller—an Important Aide

However, we have the means to begin the
matinee at 2 :30 sharp. There is on every program
one adult. She is not regarded as an outsider, but
as a link between the children and the exciting
world of grownups. The one grown person is the
storyteller. At the close of
every program it is her cus—
tom to appear dressed as a
gypsy and tell stories to
players and spectators. If

The novel sets used on the Los Angeles
playgrounds are part of Jrhe fun of the
outdoor summer mafinees produced by the
children's dramatic clubs. And amazing
indeed is the "Amazing Sprinkling Can"!

players are late in making their appearance at the
playhouse, or any other delay occurs, she begins
the program with a story or two. ,

The storyteller plays an important part in the
matinee. She draws many of the spectators into
the role of participants by helping them to work
out impromptu dramatizations of the stories.-
Sometimes they do a story play so well that they
rehearse it a few times, order costumes, and pre—
sent it on the matinee program.

Frequently the storyteller gives the background
of the play. If an adventure of Robin Hood is
presented, she relates introductory stories telling
how he became an outlaw. If the feature is a folk
play, she tells other stories from the same national
lore. After short scenes from some Shakespearean
play she may tell the story of the complete play.

The storyteller is the answer to every child’s
desire for an adult who will
meet him as an equal and
listen seriously to what he
has to say. Players discuss

(Continued on page 128)

 

Publicity tor Playgrounds

TREET Car Advertising. The Public Recreation Commis-
S sion of Cincinnati, Ohio, last summer developed a form
of publicity which proved very effective. Two posters
were prepared advertising activities of the Commission’s pro—
gram, and both posters appeared at two different periods of
at least a week on every street car in Cincinnati. This was

 

done at no cost to the Commission for the space,
although street car advertising on the outside of
the cars ordinarily carries a very high rate. In the
case of the poster advertising the airport play-
field, the Commission paid
$75 toward the cost of
making the posters and the

paid the balance of the
cost of printing them. The
street car company paid
the entire cost of printing
the other poster. Both ap-
peared in attractive colors.

94

A ten-minute-a-week radio program is paying
recreational dividends in this Florida commu-
street railway company nity with its one year old recreation depart-
ment. "The listeners have a closer relationship
with the superintendent of recreation." says
Mr. Perreault. "When they hear his voice over
the air mentioning the name of their child.
and then meet him on the street. parents feel
as though they know him and they have
greater confidence in him and his work."

’ililiié? {31% sari mat; 5.2 5“; ~:' K ~31
“5’3. wears m a. _ b
. me new: {it .

 

Who wouldn't want to go to the Airport

Playtield when every passing trolley car
carries the invitation' "Come and Play"?

Recreation by Radio. Every Saturday at one
o’clock, radio listeners in Bradenton, Florida, hear
a familiar “Hey there! Are you having any fun P”
—and the regular radio program of the Recreation
Department is on the air. Clayton L. Perreault,
Superintendent of Recreation, started the series
purely for publicity purposes, but has continued
it as a popular recreation activity.

When radio officials set up a branch studio in
this little city of 8,009 people, Mr. Perreault asked
for recreation time on the radio. Dubious directors
finally turned the complete management of the ten
minute public service program over to the Depart-
ment when they learned that the superintendent
had had previous experience in broadcasting.

During the summer playground activities pro—
vided most of the news on the program. Reviews
and previews of weekly park events always in-
cluded a “treat of the week,” possibly a pet show,
jacks tournament, handcraft exhibit, or Opening
of a new club. Plenty of names and personal items
are included in the broadcasts. Guest speakers are
often invited to tell their
special interests, and they
are usually leaders of clubs,
youth groups, or sports
leagues. '

The autumn series was
almost entirely devoted to
guest Speakers, for the De-
partment has found that

(Continued on page 122)

u.

Dancing ,Neath the Stars

Come dancing with us. we request.
At a penthouse gay with May —
Where twinkling stars will dot the sky

As to music sweet we sway!

ing beneath the stars? And although May

seems a little early in the year for such en-
joyable party plans, the guests won’t have to wOrry
about cool breezes—for this party is indoors in a
make-believe roof garden. The transformation of
a recreation room or auditorium is easily accom-
~ plished, and guests will be hard put to it to sepa-
rate illusion from reality as they look out over ter-
race walls at a city skyline or'up at myriads of
stars twinkling in the sky.

WHO COULD RESIST an invitation to go danc-

Decorations

Skyscrapers rear their heads on three sides of
the room. The lower part of the three walls
should be covered to a height of approximately
forty inches with brick design crepe paper. (Or
make your own bricks with red paper and white
poster paint.) Above the terrace wall naturally ap-
pears the city skyline. The silhouetted skyscrap-
ers may be made of heavy wrapping paper painted
black with poster paint. For a realistic touch, cut
out tiny windows and back- them with yellow
paper. Scatter stars of various sizes on the walls
among the skyscrapers. (A bizarre effect can be
obtained by placing lights at the base in back of
cardboard buildings; a softly outlined series of
silhouettes will be the interesting result.)

The fourth wall of the room represents the pent-
house—complete with awnings, garden furniture,
and even plants. The penthouse wall should con-
tain the entrance to the hall, so that guests may
step directly from the penthouse door onto the
terrace. Awnings will add quite a bit of atmos-
phere. If it is impossible to use real ones, con-
struct makeshift awnings of paper draped over
frames. Make-believe windows may also be in-
troduced. Two “gliders” before the penthouse
wall and garden furniture around the other three
walls in a casual arrangement complete the picture.
If there is enough space for a few round metal
tables, they will also help in setting the scene.

The glittering sky overhead is composed of
many silver stars of various sizes suspended from

 

the ceiling on black thread. The clever use of
colored lights will add to this decorative illusion.
Conceal the ceiling fixtures with special shades.
One type calls for a drum-shaped piece of card—
board. On the surface of the drum draw stars of
different sizes and cut out with a single—edged
razor blade. Back the openings with yellow cel-
lophane. Another kind can be made by suspending
two or three thicknesses of paper fringe of any
desired length from a wooden or wire hoop. Paste
stars on the fringe and also to narrow ribbons
which may hang from two wooden gilted cross-
pieces projecting over the edges of the hoop.
Either type of shade is hung over a light by four
lengths of wire. Suspend the shade a short dis-
tance below the fixture if the ceiling is very high.

Dance Programs

Programs may or may not be used, but a dance
theme such as this will suggest many possibilities.

95

96 DANCING ’NEATH THE STARS

One type may be made from two silver stars tied
together at one point by blue cord. The dances are
then listed on a separate sheet of paper (of the
correct shape) inserted between the stars, or on
the inside surface of the second star.

A rectangular piece of heavy blue paper folded
in half may also be the basis of the program.
Spatter—print the surface with white paint and
scatter small gummed stars over it, or paste silver
stars on the plain blue paper and sketch white ink
or paint “tails” behind them in imitation of fall-
ing stars. 'In either case, the inside back cover or
separate sheet of paper may be reserved for the
dance listing. Silver, white, or blue cord should
be attached through a hole in the upper left cor—
ner. If separate pages are inserted the cord will
hold them in place.

These program ideas, which are only a few of
the many possibilities, might be adapted for the
invitations, using the verse given.

Circle Dances

Circle dances are a lot of fun and, in addition,
are one of the best means of socializing the party
and introducing guests to one another. Once the
guests have entered into the spirit of a circle
dance, the success of the party is insured.

The formation changes are called by a leader.
A good leader will realize that fun is more im-
portant to the dancers than precise and neat for-
mations. He must also remember to tell all those
left without partners at the end of the figures to
go to the center of the room. There the partner-
less men will be able to find girls still without
partners. Otherwise, should the formation be
confused and a girl find herself without a partner
when apparently everyone else is dancing, she may
become embarrassed and leave the floor.

Single Circle: All couples join hands in a large
circle with each girl on her partner’s right. To a
sparkling tune they all walk around the circle, re—
verse direction, march to the center and out again.
This is repeated several times. Then at a signal
from the leader each man dances with the girl on
his left—until the music stops and it’s time to
form the circle again. .

Double Circle: Men form in a circle outside the
girls’ circle. With hands joined, men slide to the
left, girls to the right. At a signal each man dances
with the girl in front of him.

Basket Weave: Girls and men form separate
circles as in Double Circle. Girls slide to right,
men to left. At a signal from the leader all stop

sliding and keep hands joined. Men step forward,
raise their arms over the girls’ heads and take
their places between the girls. In this “basket
weave” formation all slide to right and then to
left—or hop first on one foot and then on the
other at the call of the leader. At the next signal
each man dances with the girl on his right.

Grand Right and Left: Girls and men form a
single circle and slide to the left. At a signal from
the leader partners turn and face each other,
clasping right hands. Men face counterclockwise.
Passing right shoulders, each person moves for-
ward in the circle and clasps left hands with the
next person he meets; passing left shoulders, he
clasps right hands with the second person. This
continues around the circle until the leader gives
the signal for the men to dance with the girls they
are facing.

Paul Jones. The Paul Jones is the most famous
of all dance mixers. Paul Jones figures vary in
different localities, but here are three varieties
written up as the leader would call them.

First variation:

1. Everyone join hands in circle.

2. Circle to the left.

3. Circle to the right.

4. All to the center.

5. Back to place.

6. All to the center again.

7. Back to place.

8. Ladies to the center, gentlemen outside.

9. Ladies circle to the right, gentlemen to the left.
10. Ladies circle to the left, gentlemen to the right.
11. Gentlemen dance with the ladies in front of them.

Second variation :

1. Everyone join hands in circle.
2. Circle to the right.
3. Circle to the left.
4. All to the center.
5. Back to place.
6. Right hand to partner.
7. Grand right and left.
8. Gentlemen take ladies facing them for partners;
everybody dance.
Third variation:
1. Everybody join hands in circle.
Circle to the right.
. Circle to the left.
. Gentlemen to right side of room.
. Ladies to left side of room.
All to the center.
Back to place.
. All to center and cross over to other side.

. A11 to center.
10. Everybody dance.

“Pairing off” for the entire evening may be
customary in your locality, but even the most hard

\oooygxmhmp

DANCING ’NEATH THE STARS 97

and fast adherent to this rule will be likely to
forget it when he discovers how much fun dance
mixers are. Therefore, even at a program dance,
introduce circle dances and partner finders fol-
lowed by special numbers. The dancers will enjoy
it! And although the partner finders and dances
given below were selected especially for this dance
beneath the stars, most of them can be adapted
with little difficulty for use at dances and parties
any time during the year.

Matching Partners

"According to the Moonlight." Partners find
each other by matching stars to complete song titles
about moonlight, moon or stars. Girls receive
stars-—-—or yellow moons—containing the first por—
‘ tion of “moon song” titles, and men have the last
parts of the titles. Some possibilities are:

Shine On . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Harvest Moon

In the Chapel . . . . . . . . . .. in the Moonlight

Moon over . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Miami

According . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..to the Moonlight

Blue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Moon
East of the Sun and. . . . .West of the Moon
If the Moon . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Turned Green

I Wished . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. on the Moon

Moon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Glow

Sweet Moon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Song

Moonlight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..and Roses

Orchids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . in the Moonlight

Stars Fell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..on Alabama

A Star Fell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .out of Heaven

Stars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. in My Eyes

If You Wish . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Upon a Star

Stars of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Summer Night

You Are My . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Lucky Star

Players might also match excerpts from fa—
miliar sayings about stars, such as:

Twinkle, twinkle . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. little star
Starlight, star bright . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
first star I’ve seen tonight

Where the air is 'full of sunlight . . . . . . . . . . .
and the flag is full of stars

Hitch your wagon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to 'a star
Sunset and evening star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
and one clear call for me

And naturally there are always “reel stars” to
consider in matching partners. Give each girl a
white slip on which is written the first name of a
famous movie actor or actress. Each man will
have a blue slip on which the corresponding last
name is written. Guests are to match cards' and
dance with the individuals whose names corre-
spond with theirs. Thus Clark will dance with
Gable, Hedy with Lamarr, and Spencer with
Tracy.

Finding a Soul Mate. Prepare two sets of cards.
On one card from each set write the lines which
follow, finishing out the first line with a stunt
which the player will do in pantomime to find his

“soul mate.”

“To find your true love (action)
He (she) will be doing the same.”

Distribute the cards, one set to the girls, the
other to the men. Everyone begins to pantomime
the action suggested on his or her card, at the
same time moving about the room in search of
someone doing the same pantomime. Some sug-
gested actions are: cross your heart, shoot an ar-
row, swim, fly, dance, lead an orchestra, sing,
paddle a canoe.

The Stars Decide. Prepare two sets of stars, in
different colors if desired. Two stars—-one from
each set—are placed together, and four or five
holes are punched through both with a paper
punch. Vary position and number of holes so that
no two patterns are alike. Distribute one set to
the girls, the other to the men. Partners are found
by matching the holes in the stars. And of course,
if a tall girl is teamed Up with a very short young
man as .a result, they can always console them-
selves with the fact that the fault was in their
stars!

The Eyes Have It. Give each man a needle and
thread. As soon as he threads his needle he may
choose a partner.

Circumspection. He who hesitates may be lost,
but the person in question is certainly not speeded
on his way in this partner finder. All of the men
line up on one side of the room, and all of the
girls on the other. The men are told to walk
across the floor and choose a girl—they may not
run, and every time the whistle blows or the music
stops they must walk around in a circle before
continuing. Use the long length of the room, and
.blow the whistle frequently!

Favor Dance. Hats are very satisfactory favors,
and made in matching colors and shapes they may
become partner finders. The hats may be num-
bered in duplicate and matched by numbers in-
stead of by color and style.

Elimination Dances

Tin Pan Alley. If the number of guests is small,
this elimination dance might follow the partner
finder in which men and girls matched parts of
song titles (“According to the Moonlight”), be-
cause it is required that each couple have the title

98 DANCING ’NEATH THE STARS

of a song. As the numbers—or selections from
them—are played, couples having those names
leave the dance floor. The only remaining couple
is the winner. .If it is a large dance, the same song
title will have to be given to several couples. Re-
fer to the list in “According to the Moonlight” for

appropriate songs.

Number Eliminations. Before the music starts,
each couple is given a card with a number on it.
If the dance is conducted with programs, the pro-
gram cards may be numbered. Duplicate numbers
for each couple are put in a hat or box.

After a short dance the leader draws out one of
the cards, and the couple holding the announced
number leaves the floor. (If the group is large,
several numbers may be called at one time.) The
remaining couples dance until the music stops
again when additional numbers are called. This
procedure is repeated until only one couple
remains. _

If the winners are not likely to be embarrassed,
the leader may call upon them for an exhibition
dance.

As a variation, each person may have a separate
number. Then, as the numbers are called, the in-
dividual holders leave the floor. Those left With-
out partners take new partners or dance alone
until a new partner is available.

Personality Elimination. In this dance, elimina-
tion is by personal characteristics. The leader
stands with his back to the dancers and eliminates
couples by calling out descriptions—applying to
either men or girls. Both partners leave the floor
if the description fits either one of them. The list
depends to some extent on the type of dance-—
formal or informal—because of the descriptions
applying to clothes.

The leader may call the following, for example:

Men with dark blue ties

Redheaded girls

Men wearing glasses
Girls over five and a half
feet tall

The leader has to collect his wits when there
are only two or three couples left to be eliminated!

A variation may be patterned after the variation
given for “Number Elimination.” Instead of a
couple leaving the floor if the description fits either
man or girl, only the person to whom it applies
must stop dancing. The remaining ones dance
with each other or alone until another partner is
available, but they of course must also leave the

Men with blue eyes

Girls not wearing rings

Men wearing watches on
chains

Girls in print dresses

floor if a description which applies to them is
given.

Dancing in the Moonlight. A colored spotlight
plays over the dancers until the music stops or a
signal is given. The couple standing in the spot-
light at that time must leave the floor. The same
procedure is continued until the conclusion of the
dance, a surprise finale. The couple on whom the
spotlight falls at the end of the dance—no matter
how many couples are left on the floor at that
time—is the winner!

Lucky Disk. After a short number, a cord is
drawn across the center of the floor, dividing the
dancers into two separate groups. The couple
nearest the cord on either side of the floor is
shown a disk (ten to twelve inches in size and
with a different color on either side), and is asked
to choose a color. The disk is spun on the floor,
if wooden, or tossed in the air, if cardboard.
Those on the side whose color shows when the
disk falls face up remain on the floor; the others
leave. The contest continues in the same way until
one couple remains.

Flower Waltz. Spring is the most appropriate
season of the year for a flower dance. Give each
girl a slip of paper on which is written the name
of a different flower. As the waltz progresses, the
leader calls out flower names, and as he does so
the girl with the corresponding slip leaves the
floor with her partner. Colors may be used to
identify the flowers as well as names (“red rose,”
for example), and if the dance is very large sev—
eral girls may have the name of the same flower.
A real flower or corsage may be given to the girl
in the last couple on the floor, if this is not a
“corsage dance.”

Stunts and Games

Lemon Barter. Each “stag” receives a lemon.
When he cuts in on a dancing couple after the
music starts he hands the lemon to the man. At
the end of the number or when the signal is given,
collect a penny from each man with a lemon. The
next time, however, give each lemon holder a
penny. As another variation, the men caught with
lemons might gather in the middle of the floor to
give a tango demonstration—sans partners! The
unpredictability of what is in store for the lemon
holders adds to the fun. i

This stunt is particularly good when there is an
excess number of men or girls.

(Continued on page 126)

 Community Playground Carnival

OR A NUMBER of years
F it had been customary,

on the closing day of
the summer playground sea-
son in Dedham, Massachu-
setts, to give the children a
big party with ice cream and
all the “lixin’s.” So many
people appeared to share in
the festivities that the cost
eventually became a considerable item. It seemed
desirable, too, to devise a way of having a good
time which would change the philosophy of the
children from one of receiving to one of giving.
And so Dedham’s first playground carnival came
into being.

The substitute for the party would be, its spon-
sors hoped, a program sufficiently unusual and in-
teresting to offset the lack of ice cream, and
enough money would be raised through it to re—
cover the pool table of the community house for
use during the winter months.

A staff meeting held well in advance of Car-
nival Day resulted in the working out of details.
The plan was then presented by the leaders to the
children in their various grOUps. The celebration
was to be patterned on the camp fair plan, changed
and expanded to meet the larger attendance an-
ticipated. Ticket costs would be low, and the
show would last from 2:00 to 9:00 P. M., with
practically continuous entertainment and con-
cessions.

Preparations Are Made

The drama group set to work on three plays for
presentation during the afternoon and evening.
The puppetry group began work on three short
plays. The toy orchestra made plans to accompany
these groups in several numbers, and the dance
group planned a few special attractions. The
craft tables became centers for the construction of
various special articles for booths which were to
be made by the older boys and girls of the play—
ground. These booths were simple in design and
varied in size according to the needs of the “con-
cessionaires.”

Any boy or girl could sign up for a booth,
choose his or her assistants, and begin to plan un—

If you haven't had a carnival we
suggest you try one this summer

By DAVID R. KIBBY
Executive Director

Dedham Community House
' Dedham. Massachusetts

usual features which would
offer maximum sales ap-
peal. Duplication, except in
,rare instances, was dis-
couraged. _An award was
announced for the best
booth and for the one mak—
ing the largest number of
sales. “Hawking” and
“spieling” were encouraged.
The fencing instructor offered to plan an ampli-
fication system for the various announcements and
for the characters in the plays and puppet shows-—
an arrangement necessary because of the difficulty
of hearing the children out of doors. The local
electric company supplied Hoodlights for the car-
nival area. Some of the older boys gathered trees
and green brush and constructed a most satis-
factory rustic theater in a natural amphitheater.
A number of the older children were members of
two local drum and bugle corps, and it was planned
to have these groups present a band concert and
competition in the evening. One of the boys had a
pony which he offered to bring during the after-
noon for pony rides for the little children. A
group of girls decided to have a lemonade stand
and to eliminate the cost of the lemonade by ask-

' ing a local restaurant to supply the ingredients and

the ice. They were assured by the manager that
the details would be taken care of at no cost. The
local “weekly” supplied colored paper for the
decoration of many of the booths'.

In no time at all things were moving along with-
out interfering with' the summer playground pro—
gram for those who were not taking active part in
the carnival plans. Children signed up for booths
which they thought they would like to manage—
hoop toss, “string bowling,” dart throw, archery,
African dodger, ring toss, ball throws, nail drive,
auto race, and others to the. number of twenty-
five. Concessionaires set to work planning decora-
tions and special attractions, and meetings were
arranged with different staff members in charge
of a certain number of booths. Each group tried
to outdo the others in originality and sales appeal.

Publicity was started three weeks before the
actual day of the carnival. Posters were turned
out by the art groups and placed in strategic spots

99

100 A COMMUNITY PLAYGROUND CARNIVAL

about town. Lumber for booths had to be found.
The first year it was loaned by an interested citi-
zen who lived near. by; the next year it was pur-
chased outright as permanent property. A price
had to be set for tickets which could be met by all.
After consultation it was decided to sell two tickets
for five cents, each ticket being good at any booth
except the lemonade stand and the pony ride con-
cession, Where two were necessary. Sufficient ma-
terial had to be obtained for twenty—five booths
without having left-overs which would eat up the
profits.

Twenty—five dollars’ worth of prizes was pur-
chased the first year from a wholesale novelty
store in dozen and gross lots. These were so
planned that nearly every participant could win at
least a small prize, but there were also some more
elaborate articles. To have an “elastic” group. of
articles for prizes, arrangements were made with
a local five and ten cent store for $25 worth of
articles which could be returned if not used.
These made up the “display” and were used after
the other prizes had been disposed of. In this lat-
ter group were most of the articles which cost
fifty cents and over. The first year $32 worth of
prizes were actually used; the third year the car-
nival was popular enough to warrant spending
over $50 for prizes at wholesale.

The Program

The program was planned so that a free attrac-
tion was nearly always in progress while booths
were operating, and a child or adult could have a
good time even without spending any money. The
tentative program for the first year as published
in the local paper' was as follows:

2:00 — 9:00 P. M.——Booth Attractions

2 :00- 5:00 P. M.—Pony rides

3:00 P. M.—Play—“Black Sambo” '

4:00 P. M.—P1ay—“Snow White”

5:00 P. M.—Puppet Show—“The Little Boy Who Wanted
to Play All the Time”

:30 P. M.—Sons of Italy Drum and Bugle Corps

:15 P. M.—Veterans of Foreign Wars Junior Bugle
Corps

8:00 P. M.—Puppet Shows and Toy Orchestra—“Abra—

ham Lincoln,” “Cavort”
8:30 P. M.—Play——“The Princess and the Woodcutter”

A central cashier’s booth was arranged for so
that tickets would be sold at one place for all
attractions.

The carnival itself was scheduled for Thursday
so that it could easily be postponed one or two
days in the event of rain. The first year the af-

6
7

fair was attended _by over 1,200 children and
adults (this was a one-playground program), and
profits exceeded $20. The second Year more prizes
were offered and were made easier to win. This
offered greater advertising possibilities and made
the affair even more of a success in the eyes of
the children. The second year about 1,600 persons
attended, but profits were somewhat smaller than
those of the previous year. The third year attend-
ance exceeded 2,000, with profits about station—
ary. There is no question that a large profit could
be made, but the good will engendered by the
“everybody wins” plan is more valuable.

Values Involved

The whole carnival plan gives the various
groups a splendid opportunity to present to an
appreciative audience the results of their activity
in the field of drama, art, pupperty, crafts, etc.
The third carnival offered a fine display of craft
products for public approval.

The program as a whole is admirably suited to
inter-playground cooperation and presentation at
some central point.

After three years people have come to look for-
ward to this gala affair, with its flags and bunting,
balloons, whistles and carnival sounds, and the
fine entertainment offered. There seems to be no
limit to the enthusiasm that can be aroused on a
playground in an undertaking of this sort. The
ability of nearly every boy and girl finds an outlet
in some phase of the entertainment program.

Originality has its own reward. One girl of
fifteen designed a dart throw booth with a large
map of Europe, blacked in the areas where wars
were being fought, and offered a special prize to
the person who hit these areas. She won first
prize at the first carnival.

The lad in charge of archery designed, among
other targets, a boy with an apple on his head, and
offered a valuable prize to the person who could
hit the apple. Only three hits were registered on
that particular apple the entire time the booth was
open. One of these was made by the playground
director who turned the award back into “stock.”

Two girls designed what we called a “string
bowling” booth. A regulation ball was tied to the
end of a twelve foot string, and three pendulum
shots were allowed a player to knock over five
candle pins. Needless to say it was one of the most
successful booths.

(Continued on page 134)

Camp Fire Girls Travel the Treasure Trails

3 —';"'  

-f"

MMF‘ FlE 

“PREPARE. TO
FOLLOW ’

HE TRAILS OF ART leading to this country from
Tall over the world, as well as the art which is

native to America, are the paths Camp Fire
Girls have been following during their 194I
“Treasure Trails” project. But they not only ex-
plore the past. They also experiment with the
resources of their own communities, which in-
clude their own interests and talents, to see what
they may be able to add to our cultural life. Art
and culture are not formidable words to them.
The words signify resources near at hand and
creativeness which everyone may develop and
share with others.

The Camp Fire Girls’ “Treasure Trails” project
was planned with several hopes in mind. Chiefly it
was designed to provide en-
joyable experiences which
would stimulate lasting in-
terests. Leaders hoped that
the girls, through exploring
the treasure trails of art
from many countries and
relating them to their own
families and home towns,
would see beyond the pres-
ent world chaos to appreci-
ate the good contributions
of all nationalities. Also cre-
ativeness was stressed be-

 

The trails of art leading to this country
from all over the world. as well as the
art which is native to America. are the
paths Camp Fire Girls have been following
since their I94| "Treasure Trails" project
was initiated. But they not only explore

the past. They also experiment with the
resourcesot their own communities. which
include their own interests and talents,
to see what they may be able to add to our
cultural life. Art and culture are not for-
midable words to them. They signify re-
sources near at hand and creativeness which
everyone may develop and share with others.

of

America

By MAYDA HALL

The Spokane. Washington. Camp
Fire Girls arranged an exhibit
of books at their main library
using the theme of this year's
‘birthday project. One of the
signs reads: llWe'll share our
treasure trails with others."

9»

Courtesy CambiiFire Girls, Inc.

cause of its power to counterbalance nervous
strains. The spirit of creativeness usually suffers
particularly, perhaps first, in difficult times, since
it is immediately affected by confusion 'and nega-
tion. World doubt and self-doubt are so related
that people often question whether they will not
simply make matters worse by expressing them-
selves. And good citizens may wonder whether it
is not somehow selfish to engage in simple, enjoy-
able activities.

“Treasure Trails” was a project to reaffirm the
value of creativeness, and to relate it vividly to
the heritage and future of this country. Of course,
there are many ways to work toward these goals.
Citizenship, service, handcraft, music and drama-
tics are regular parts of the
Camp Fire program. Out
of these this project emerg-
ed, and the continuing ac-
tivities will receive a special
stimulus from “this 194I
nation-wide project.

Doctors, lawyers, mer-
chants, chiefs—and also
bootmakers, chefs, and many
other occupational types
were found on the family
trees of Camp Fire Girls 'as
they delved into their ances-

101

102 CAMP FIRE GIRLS TRAVEL THE TREASURE TRAILS OF AMERICA

tral pasts. Girls in St. Clair Shores, Michigan, for i .

example, report that three girls had Indian for-
bears, one was descended from Longfellow, and
altogether they traced their ancestors all around
the world. Such world touring, they found, is
what can happen when anyone starts to study her
own family. The history of the community and
of the country becomes quickly involved, and
practically all the nationalities of the world are
usually only a few generations away.

Each girl chose either her family, her commu—
nity, or a neighboring country for her point of de-
parture. If the community was chosen, the girls
found out from what countries its settlers came.
Then they looked for the influences of these vari-
ous cultures on their section’s architecture, cus—
toms, furniture, clothes, food, music, and indus-
tries. Whether they began with the family, the
community, or the neighbor, they generally found
their trails leading in and out and in again, through
all three.

To some who know the inertia young pe0ple
frequently have where history lessons are con-
cerned it is surprising how interested these girls
are in understanding the backgrounds of their
communities. Fiestas dramatizing the nationalities
they have studied, ancestor parties to which rela-
tives were invited, and city tours have been
features of the project. In Oakland, California,
for example, a fiesta introduced songs and dances
of several “nationalities and of several generations.
Pioneer days were represented, as were the cul-
tures of several groups important to the develop-
ment of California: American Indians, Spaniards
and Mexicans, Chinese, and Russians. Informal
play and recreation, also provided, helped guaran-
tee the participation of all comers in this cele-
bration.

Mother-daughter ancestor teas given in several
places were quite successful. Both mothers and
daughters came dressed in the style and manners
of some chosen ancestor. During the tea each
person was called upon to tell who she was, when
she lived, and where. At some ancestor parties
each girl told something about the art of,an an-
cestor’s country and either exhibited or demon-
strated an example. A bit of ballet, musical selec-
tions, a Norwegian, or other, folk dance, readings
from famous foreign authors, were all part of
such programs presented by the girls.

Camp Fire Girls in Kansas City report that they
really saw “for the first time” many city features
they had long taken for granted and hardly noticed

at all, when their Treasure Trail Caravan carried
them through the old home city. And in another
city the girls had an exciting tour through, of all
things, their own school! Especially in their art
and" music rooms they found many surprises. One
high point was a talk with the music teacher, who
recounted some of her eXperiences in connection
with various musical events, programs of which
were exhibited. '

To learn more about art and their communities’
facilities the girls visited museums, “art galleries, '
and craft shops. Silversmiths, glass blowers, fur-
‘niture makers, cut glass workers, textile manu-
facturers, stone cutters and polishers, ornamental
iron workers, and bookbinders were also sought
out. The girls learned something about art in in-
dustry, as well as in museums. Since Grand
Rapids, Michigan, specializes in furniture, the
Camp Fire Girls there centered their attention on
furniture, too. They were eager to share with
others the knowledge afforded by their unique
Furniture Museum. Many groups took advantage
of this opportunity to become better. acquainted
with their libraries, and a number of library ex-
hibits were arranged.

Exhibits carried out international and craft
themes. Some were action exhibits in which the
girls demonstrated. At the Art Center in .Butte,
Montana, Camp Fire Girls exhibited treasures
which they had collected by a thorough scouring
of the community; thus everyone was able to see
linens from Finland, a Kashmir shawl from India,
Italian bedspreads, Beleek porcelain from Ireland,
Bone China from India, and chintz, porcelain,
pottery and Thurendahl glass from Germany.
Another small community enjoyed a show of dolls
and toys from all over the world. Many exhibits
also emphasized the girls’ own creative work.

Since the project encouraged the girls to blaze
new trails, a number of classes in clay modeling,
music, bookbinding, were formed, and new inter-
est was inspired in handcraft, a regular part of
the Camp Fire program. Several groups wrote
their own skits and plays, into which were woven
songs and dances of different countries, historical
local color, poems, and music.

One thirteen year old Camp Fire Girl wrote a
play called “The First Thanksgiving,” in which
the characters told why their families left Holland,
what struggles they had at first in this country,
how happy they were when friendship with the
Indians was established. For their Parent-Teach-

(Continued on page 132)

A Juvenile Baseball Program

HEN THE Recreation

Department of Keno-

sha discovered in 1938
that fewer baseball diamonds
were being organized every
year, it was felt the time had
come to take stock of the sit-
uation and to discover the
cause.

What could be wrong? the
Department asked. Lack of
facilities? No, there were
‘more diamonds in town than
were being used. Lack of interest? No, the pub-
lic wasstill interested as the crowds at the games
proved, and enough players were enthusiastic
about the game to keep scrub games going a good
part of the time during the week.

\Nas there a lack of backing? Yes, it was
agreed, that was one of the reasons. It cost less
for depression-hit merchants to back softball
teams, and with this game coming to the fore-
front newspapers were giving generous publicity
to the teams participating. Moreover, in the senior
division of baseball it was felt there was a short-
age of players. Because of the heavy shift to
softball, fewer and fewer trained players were
coming up each year, and the point had been
reached where teams were having a hard time to
replace older players who were retiring.

Som‘ething had to be done, and so it was de-
cided to institute a program of juvenile baseball
during the summer months modeled after the pro-
gram in operation in Milwaukee.

The first consideration of course was proper
equipment. What would be required? To insure
proper protection to the boys there would have to
be complete catching paraphernalia, bats, and an
adequate supply of balls. It would be necessary to
set up rules and regulations for umpiring, reser—
vations of available diamonds, schedules and, most
important of all, there must be good leadership.

At this time the Union Recreation Council, a
body of representatives from all the labor unions
in Kenosha—and the city has a very harmonious
labor situation—heard of the proposed plan and
volunteered to furnish the necessary. catching
equipment, bats, and trophies. The Recreation De-

By ESMOND L. O’NEIL
Athletic Director
Department of Public Recreation
Kenosha. Wisconsin

There are still some boys in the city
of Kenosha. Wisconsin. with its 50.000
people. who have never played the good
old American game of baseball. but if
the Department of Recreation and the
Labor Unions have their way. every boy
will have the opportunity of playing
some baseball before he grows up!

partment, greatly encouraged
by this offer, agreed to take
care of the rest of the ex-
pense on the condition that
' leadership remain in the hands
of the Department. This was
agreed upon.

The Cubs and Cadets
Make Their Bow

One of the local high school
teachers who had formerly
played semi-professional ball
was hired as a summer director. Rules were writ-
ten, official junior size baseballs were procured,
publicity was given out, organization meetings
were held, and on July 8, I938, the Union Cub
and Cadet baseball program got under way with
twenty-eight teams. In 1939 enrollment dropped
to fifteen teams, but the 1940 teams totaled twenty-
seven in the Cub and Cadet divisions, and six in
the junior division. During this year Union spon-
sorship was extended to the junior classification.
This classification had existed before but because
of inability to get backing for equipment was also
declining.

Each year the winning teams in the Cub leagues
are scheduled to play each other for the cham—
pionship in the large natural bowl in Washington
Park—the scene of the mammoth annual Labor
Day celebration. A public address system an-
nounces the names of the players and follows the
plays, bands play, pictures are taken, and team
trophies and individual awards are given to the
winners. Truly it is a day to be remembered by
all of the participants, and a goal for which all of
the boys strive. _

On these teams sons of factory managers and
department superintendents are found playing
alongside the sons of factory workers whose
unions sponsor the leagues. We find sons of
doctors, lawyers, merchants, teachers, day laborers
and skilled laborers, all playing the game. There
are boys of well-to-do families; there are sons of
poor families; there are white boys and Negro
boys, and boys of every religious belief.

The gratifying thing about it all is the increased
interest in baseball and the fact that some of the

103

104

players are moving up. The 1940 season found
two outstanding boys in the senior league who
were Cadets in the 1938 season, and a large num-
ber of the 1940 junior league players who had
previously been in the Cadet leagues.

The age classifications as set up by the Depart-
ment of Public Recreation are as follows: .

Cub leagues—under thirteen years of age as of
January I of the playing year

Cadet leagues-——under sixteen years of age as of
January I of the playing year

Junior leagues——under nineteen years of age as
of January I of the playing year

(A player can play in a higher age bracket if his
ability warrants it, but not in a lower one.)

Equipment

The Unions furnish catchers’ mitts, masks, chest
protectors, shin guards, and approximately three
bats to each set of equipment. The Cub and Cadet
equipment is furnished in small sizes and the
junior equipment in adult sizes. The equipment
is in charge of the umpires working the game, and
all catchers must wear it. No cracked bats are
allowed to be used, and damaged equipment is
repaired or replaced immediately. All of this
equipment, including bats, is the best that money
can buy and therefore in the long run the most
economical.

The official junior size baseball is used in all
Cub and Cadet games, and new balls are used
generously. This seems to give the players addi-
tional enthusiasm. The official
senior size ball is used in the
junior league.

The official unior
baseball diamond,
as drawn on the
back cover of the
Official Rule Book,
is used for the Ca-
det leagues ; namely,
82 foot base lines
and 50 foot pitch—
ing distances. These
dimensions were
also used for the
Cubs the first year,
but it was found
that the base lines
were too long. Since
then 72 foot base
lines have been used

While you are making it possible for
juniors to play baseball don'f forget
that their eldersr tool want to play!

 

Courtesy National Cash Register Company, Dayton, Ohio

A JUVENILE BASEBALL PROGRAM

with a 50 foot pitching distance. This seems to be
about right for the smaller boys. The official
senior size diamond is used for the junior league.

Rules

Play is according to the official baseball rules,
except for a few changes designed to keep the
score down and to shorten the length of playing
time. Cub games are five innings in length, and
Cadet games, seven innings. All games are played
in the morning starting at nine o’clock, and one
Cub and one Cadet game are scheduled on the
same diamond for the same morning. If a game
is not decided by the time the next game _is
scheduled to start, or by twelve o’clock, the game
is called unless tied. In that case it is played as
an extra-inning game. Catchers do not have to
catch the third strike. The ball is in play on all
passed balls that hit the backstop, but no runner
can score from third base. A bulletin of rule in-
terpretations is given each team to help them un-
derstand the most difficult rules, such as blocked
balls, balls hitting umpires, overthrows, and others.
Protests are explained to them in this bulletin, and
forty-eight hours are given to get them in with a
twenty-five cent deposit which is returned if their
protest is upheld. No concessions are made for
junior league, which must play according to the
official senior rules as written.

Officials

Each team must have a manager, preferably an
older person——father 'or older brother—but often
one of the boys on the team is
selected, and it is surprising
what good work some of them
do. Managers are
responsible to the
Recreation Depart—
ment for proper fil-
ing of contracts
which each of the
twelve players al-
lowed is required to
sign; for filing of
entry deposit of
$1.00 which is re-
turned if season is
completed and is
usually collected
among the boys;
and the receiving of

(Continued on
page 125)

l
l
l

TURF 18 generally accepted as

Better Turf for Playgrounds and Playfields

the ideal surface for play-

grounds and recreation fields.
Naturally, where the areas are
small and are used for heavy
play almost continuously the year around, grass
cannot be expected to hold up and other more
durable but less attractive surfaces must be used.
Unquestionably, however, there are many play-
grounds which now have entirely unsatisfactory
surfaces which could be maintained in grass at a
reasonable cost, if the grass were given a sporting

chance. The amazing thing about turfed recrea-’

tion areas is that as much grass survives as does,
when one considers the lack of attention which it
receives.

Soil Foundation

Most playgrounds are located in areas where
soil conditions are not favorable for the growth of
grass. In many cases they are established on fills
or areas around buildings where the original top-
soil has been covered by subsoil brought up in the
process of excavation. Clay soil, either with or
without a grass cover, is objectionable for recrea—
tional purposes because it is slippery and muddy
when wet and then bakes hard when dry. After
the soil has baked, grass roots and water alike
have difficulty in penetrating to a sufficient depth
to permit good growth of the grass.

In such areas, therefore, the soil must be im-
proved physically if a permanent stand of turf
grass is to be obtained. Where areas are poorly
drained, agricultural tile might well be installed
as a first move in the improvement of the physi—
cal properties of the soil.
If the areas are not too
large it may be possible to
bring in a good topsoil,
preferably a sandy loam,
and cover the area with it
to a depth of three or four
inches. Where this is im-
practical, however, sand or
fine gravel can be disced
into the top layer to a

depth of at least two or
three inches.

By JOHN MONTEITH, JR.
Green Section
United States Golf Association
Washington. D. C.

"The importance of providing a good surface
for play activities cannot be too strongly
emphasized. . . . Among the factors which must
be considered before determining the most
suitable surface for a given area are the fol-
lowing: climatic conditions; the natural soil
conditions: location and size of area: type
of activities to be carried on: length of
playing season; intensity of use: suitability
for night lighting; local tastes and prefer-
ences; availability of materials. and initial and
maintenance costs." -— From The New Play
Areas — Their Design and Equipment.

Fertilizers

Even after clay soil has been
corrected so far as physical
characteristics are concerned, it
may still not support a good
growth of grass because of the absence of ade-
quate quantities of plant food. Such plant food in
the form of fertilizers should therefore be worked
into the soil before sowing the grass seed when
new turf is being established. Fertilizers contain
primarily nitrogen (N), phosphorus '(P), and
potassium (K), which are the three elements
most likely to be deficient in soils. Of these three,
nitrogen is the element which is needed by the
grass in largest quantities because it is the one
which encourages greatest leaf development. For
most soils the best fertilizer for turf is one which
contains all three elements but is particularly high
in nitrogen.

The percentage of each of these elements pres—
ent in a fertilizer is given on the bag in three
figures, the first of which represents the percent— .1
age of nitrogen, the second, the percentage of
phosphoric acid, and the third, the percentage of
potash. These three figures taken together desig—
nate the grade of the fertilizer. For turf purposes,
the 10-6-4 grade is recommended by the United
States Department of Agriculture and several of
the Agricultural Experiment Stations. A fertilizer
of this grade contains ten per cent nitrogen, six
per cent phosphoric acid, and four per cent potash.

In preparing a new area for turf on poor soil, it
would be well to work a fertilizer of this grade
into the top few inches of soil at the rate of I600
pounds to the acre. When applying it to estab-
lished turf, on the other
hand, it should be dis-
tributed at the rate of 400
to 800 pounds to the acre.
The chemicals used in the
manufacture of many com-
mercial fertilizers may
seriously, burn the grass if
applied at too high a rate.
Burn is likely to be par-
ticularly severe when the
fertilizer is applied in hot
weather or when the grass

105

106 BETTER TURF FOR PLAYGROUNDS AND PLAYFIELDS

leaves are wet either from dew or rainfall. Estab-
lished tur'f should be fertilized in fall or early
spring and not during the hot summer months.

Where organic fertilizers are desired, cotton-
seed meal, soybean meal or sewage sludge will be
found to contain the three essential fertilizer ele-
ments in about the same proportion as the inor-
ganic mixture mentioned above, but they are only
one—half as concentrated and will give correspond-
ing results if applied at increased rates. When
such materials as sludge are produced locally, 'it is
often advantageous to use them in place of the
inorganic commercial fertilizers.

Since the application of fertilizers in the spring
encourages the summer weeds such as crabgrass
as well as the turf grasses, it is advisable as a rule
to feed established turf in the fall rather than
spring. In northern regions, where snowmold
prevails, however, fall fertilizing should be avoided
and the applications_must be made in the early
spring. In the South, spring and early summer
applications of fertilizer are recommended. In
other sections of the country, fall applications of
fertilizer oEer the grass plant food at the time
when conditions are favorable for most rapid
growth. Kentucky bluegrass makes its best growth
at that time of year when the nights are cool and
the days warm with plenty of moisture in the soil.
Therefore, feeding the grass at that time makes it
possible to get the development of a dense stand
of turf which will offer the best insurance against
weed invasion the following spring.

Lime is not a fertilizer but must be applied oc-
casionally on naturally acid soils or soils to which
inorganic fertilizers are applied regularly over a
long period of years. When necessary, ground
limestone should be applied at the rate of one to
two thousand pounds to the acre. Applications to
established turf are best made in the fall and at
least two weeks should be allowed to elapse be-
tween the application of an inorganic commercial
fertilizer and the lime. It is rarely necessary to
apply lime to turf oftener than once every three
'or four years.

Seeding

Before seeding an area, the surface soil should be
pulverized to a line mulch. When an area is being
sown to grass for the first time, it is advisable to
plow the ground some time before seeding to
permit at least some of the weed seeds present in
the soil to germinate. The resulting weeds can be
killed by repeated discing and harrowing, thereby

reducing the competition from weeds in the new
turf.

In most sections of the country, early fall is the
ideal time in which to plant seed for turf because
of the fact that climatic conditions during this
season of the year are most favorable for the
growth of grass. Also, at this time of year a
dense stand of turf grass can be established in the
absence of competition from summer weeds.

For general use on playgrounds and recreation
areas a satisfactory mixture would consist of
eighty—five to ninety per cent Kentucky bluegrass,
five to ten per cent red t0p and the remainder
Colonial bent. Where the soil is well drained and
of a sandy nature, Chewings fescue may be used
to a good advantage. It makes an ideal turf for
play purposes since it is a tough grass and requires
the minimum of cutting. However, it is not likely
to survive unless planted where conditions are
favorable. Under favorable climatic and soil con—
ditions, it can be used in the above mixture to re-
place up to sixty per cent of the Kentucky blue-
grass. Ordinarily seventy to a hundred and twen-
ty-five pounds of the above mixtures to the acre
should be ample if it is sown evenly on a good
seed bed.

To obtain a good stand of grass it is essential to
have the seed lightly covered and'pressed firmly
into the soil. This may be accomplished by light
raking or rolling with a spike roller after the seed
is sown, followed by rolling with a light roller. If
water is available, it is advisable to keep the sur-
face of the soil moist from this time on until the
grass is well established.

It is important to remember that seedling grass
is delicate and apt to be destroyed if played upon
too soon after planting, before it has become well
established. Perhaps one of the most common
errors which is made in the effort to speed up the
establishment of turf is to plant more liberal quan-
tities of seed. As a matter of fact, it is not so
much the number of grass plants in a given area
that determines the speed with which turf will
become established as the amount of plant food
which is available for the growth of plants. Tests
have shown that establishment can be speeded up
more efficiently and the quality of the permanent
turf improved to a greater extent by increasing the
amount of fertilizer used in the original seed bed
rather than by increasing the rate of seeding.

Height of Mowing
One of the most frequent mistakes in handling
turf is to mow it too closely. This error may go

BETTER TURF FOR PLA YGROUNI)S AND_PL.-l YFIELDS 107

high. The general recom-
mendation, therefore, is
that for recreation areas
the mowers should be set
between two and three
inches.

Role of Recreation
Director in Turf
Maintenance

A field of turf would

‘undoubtedly prove much
more serviceable the year
around if the playing areas
could be shifted from
time to time. On areas
which are used for general
play and a succession of
sports such as softball at
one season and soccer or
football another, the scars

 

back to the association of superior turf with golf of one sport are not only an eyesore but interfere
courses. A common method of reasoning is that , with the maximum enjoyment of the sport which
since turf on golf courses is follows. Such worn areas

generally superior to that on The No phdographs shown here which could frequently be avoided
lawns and parks, and since represem a smdy in conhask: offer or at least considerably re-~

the turf on golf courses is excenem proof 9f +119 difference a duced if the bases or goal
always cut close, close cut sod surfacing can make in the a‘Hrac- posts could be shifted from

turf must be good turf. This, “veness an‘l usabllllY 0“ ‘3 PI'E‘WQWUnd time to time. Limited space

however, is a fallacy. Turf often prevents such shifts

on golf courses could be maintained in a better but there are many instances when it is possible

l condition and more economically if cut high, but (Continued on page 128)
1 good playing conditions for

the game demand close cut

turf. On the other hand, I x, _ 

most other types of recre—,  .. r ' U  ‘ .,  ' i . . ._ . .

ation on turf can be en- ' l “ v 1 r ' . ’ . ‘ r i  

joyed just as well on mod- 1,1,” i I f :

erately high grass as on’ «Us»,  A?" af’  ,’ _.   .

closely clipped grass. . i ’  ' '  i ii
One of the chief objec-

tions to moderately tall

grass on playgrounds is

that when the leaves are

wet the likelihood of wet

feet is greater than on

closely cut turf. This ob-

jection, however, is more

than compensated for by

the advantages of a better

and more resistant turf .

which is possible when the ’ , . ‘ ‘ " '° "

grass is cut moderately ' ' ' ' 

 

‘ .

akhrst Iemctary ciao], . orth, Texas

Posters tor Parks and Playgrounds

a contest conducted by

the Municipal Art So-
ciety in New York City in
connection with its campaign
against vandalism in the parks
have been awarded to the
National Recreation Association. This contest was
held for students in the Longyear Poster Class at
Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York.

The posters illustrated on this page are the ones
that have been selected by the Association. If
enough interest is shown in“ these posters by local
park and recreation departments, the National
Recreation Association will arrange to have them
reproduced in full color by silk screen. Through
this paint print process each poster appears like an
original in clear, bright colors. The price for a
single poster will be twenty-five cents, including
handling and mailing charges. Orders for three

TWO POSTERS Smeitth in

Three colors—greenI orange and red—
are combined in this attractive poster

 

108

it you would like to see these
posters made available, will you
not tell us at once how many ot
them you will wish to purchase?

ter will be necessary, how-
ever, before such reproduc-
tion can be carried out.

Something About the Artists

The young student artists
who made these posters are Fredi Hatch, twenty-
one, and Robert Everline, twenty. They are sec-
ond year students in Advertising Design at Pratt
Institute. The contest, they explained, was a class
project. The students worked on it outside class
hours, in addition to their regular assignments. A
week was allotted for sketching the idea, and an-
other week was given to finishing the poster. Fredi
and Robert both like to work with bright colors,
and this is one reason for their colorful posters.

Fredi Hatch, a slender blonde girl with an in-
fectious smile and an expressive face, was born in

(Continued on page 128)

In "Play Sate" three colors are effec-
tively used—yellow. blue. and black

 

hundred copies of each pos‘

 

A Child Checking service

number of children at
the grounds it was im—
possible to guarantee
they would not leave the

ln devel0ping the recreation program
in a New Jersey resort, its sponsors
discovered a novel service which met
a distinct need in this seaside city

NEW and possibly
A a permanent
feature of play-
ground service came

 

into being at the Ocean
City recreation center
during the summer of 1940. Pub-—
lic recreation, on the whole, is
new in Ocean City, New Jersey,
having begun, except for sporadic
attempts, in October, 1939, when
the new recreation center opened under trained
leadership. The Municipal Playground Board,
which broke ground for the new enterprise, found
itself in a fertile field for community develop-
ment, and members were sanguine in believing
the center held hope for a vigorous new commu—
nity life.

Ocean City is a beach resort city. In June the
summer visitors and residents come flocking in
and the city takes on a different character. The
recreation director was asked many times for as-
surances that the children would be safe on the
grounds after the parents left them. The best he
could guarantee was that precautions were taken
to make use of the play appara-
tus quite safe. He always made
it plain that with the large

By LORNE C. RICKERT

Director of Recreation
Ocean City. New Jersey

' As a part of the checking system,
a white card with a red number is
pinned on the back of each child

premises for the near—by
boardwalk, the ocean,
or the streets and all the hazards.

The disappointment with which
this statement was received con-
vinced the playground staff that
the services offered by the recre—
ation center should be broadened in scope. One of
the board members envisioned a future for the
playground in which a nursery, with a trained
nurse in charge, could be operated as an adjunct
to the center. The idea grew in favor, and the
child checking service was the result.

In July, August, and the first week in Septem—
ber, the busy season here, 703 children were
checked, as many as twenty-six mothers using this
service in one day. Vacationists were not the only
ones using the child checking service. Shoppers,
golfers, and tennis players also took advantage of
these new facilities.

Boys and girls from three to eight years of age
were eligible for the nursery.
Parents left their children at
9:00 A. M. and registered, giv—

 

110 ' A CHILD CHECKING SERVICE

ing the child’s name,
address, and age. Each
parent was asked to
sign beside the name
of his or her child, and
was given a numbered
check in return. A
large, red number on
white background,
8” x lo”, correspond—
ing to the tag number
given the parent, was
securely pinned on the
child’s back and the
tot was put into circu—
lation in the small
children’s area, a part
of the playground en-
closed with a hedge
and containing pieces
of small children’s play
apparatus—ma sand box,
shelter, and other
facilities.

Since the tags were taken from
numbered pegs on a tag board
made for the purpose, a glance at the board would
show what numbers had been issued and how
many children the play leader in charge was re-
sponsible for. A VVPA play leader was in charge
of this area, and tagged children were not per-
mitted to go outside the enclosure. The.red num-
bers were suffiCiently large so that their wearers
could be easily seen.

A sense of guardianship for these numbered
children developed among the older patrons, and
the task of confining them to the area lightened as
the system became known. Parents were required
to call for their children by I :00 P. M.

Jokes about the child checking service were
bantered about amid the chuckles of the populace.
Soon the novelty of passing the child over a coun-
ter like so much luggage wore off, and users of
this facility settled down to a solid appreciation of
the real value of the service. The summer passed
without mishap or accident of any kind. Now and
then a straggler was caught outside the area, but
he was always quickly relayed back to the small
children’s section. The attractions in the enclosure
were generally enough to keep them there.

After the initial strangeness, the children usually
took advantage of the myriad of resources de—
voted to making the checking service a happy

Du’te _____.._____\9 __

H Home cl N30

[Dgily [Regisizrudzlon ihaei:
nglb @BBECBKEHG SERVEQE

Address

1. l-l_lil

 were content to sta '
el—l—l-I 3“ morning In th

Each adul’r bringing a child is asked
to fill ou’r fhis regis’rra’rion card

   
  
    
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  

child adventure. The
generally used the mini
ature merry-go-roun
first, but they 300
found their way to th
slide,' the swings, o
the see-saw and th
junglegym. Man

From ____To
A 0. Penny: Siqnuiuro

 

umbrellas were place
to shelter them fro ‘
the hot sun.
Children received .
great deal of persona
attention. They wer
assisted _in putting to-
gether picture puzzles,
and they took part in
a wide range of quiet
activities under the.‘
shelter during the hot
periods of the day. For
many, it was the first taste of
organized games with other chil-
dren. Not infrequently they cried when taken
away from the land of play into which the child ,
checking service had inducted them.

One day one of the children remained uncalled
for at I :00 P. M., when the service was scheduled
to close. One of the play leaders took the little lad
in charge until 2:00 P. M. when another play.
leader reported for work. The child was "easily
entertained and the afternoon play leader took the'

_ boy with him while he pursued his round of duties.

However, by the middle of. the afternoon there
were occasional whimperings which by 4:00 P. M.
broke into frantic crying for “Uncle Tony,” who
had brought him to the grounds early in the day.
After a hurried search through the daily registra-
tion sheet in which the addresses and other par-
ticulars about the checked children are recorded,
the play leader was able to drive the child home,
where his aunt was waiting to receive him. “Uncle
Tony” had gone fishing and did not understand
that the service closed at I :00 P. M.

The practical application of the idea more than
fulfilled the hope of its sponsors. Far from being
shelved and catalogued as wearing apparel and
other checked appurtenances, the children were

(Continued on page 122

 

Dayton's Playground Fair

ll ELLO EVERYBODY,” shouted the Talking Rab-
bit with the big ears. The crowd of chil-
dren and adults who sat waiting for the

first act in the Dayton, Ohio, Playground Fair was
suddenly quiet. The grand march was over; more
than six hundred gaily costumed children had
paraded around the park, across the Band Shell
stage and off again. Then as the audience waited
for the show to begin, the Rabbit’s head had sud-
denly popped from behind the curtains of a small
booth at one side of the stage.

i “I said, Hello everybody!” The audience soon

caught the spirit of the Fair and yelled back

“Hello” to the puppet rabbit. Up perked his ears.

“There, that’s better, I heard you that time,” he
said, and Dayton’s playground show was under
way.

Since the name “Playground Fair” had been
chosen for the annual review of summer activities,
the children and leaders in Dayton’s recreation
program had to live up to this title. A background
of brightly-painted fair booths was constructed
on the stage and hung with balloons, paper stream-
ers and many-colored balls. Day Camp children
made hundreds of tiny colored lanterns, gaudy
trinkets and colored pennants to be strung across
the stage and criss-crossed high above the heads of
the audience. A huge sign spread across the en-
trance read, “VVelcome—Playground Fair.”

Over the live booths at the back of the stage
were painted _the names “Medicine Man,” “For-
tune Teller,” “Mother Goose,” “Tiny Tots Thea-
ter,” and “Wild West.” “Buyers” and “sellers”
wandered back and forth between the make-be-
lieve booths adding life to the carnival’s “scenery.”
Between acts they stood in given positions, creat-
ing a tableau effect.

The acts themselves, each introduced by some
remark from the Talking Rabbit, were designed to
demonstrate to the public the activities carried on
in the Dayton playgrounds and
parks during the summer.
Groups of boys and girls from
the various playgrounds had
worked hard for several weeks
perfecting their acts. The
younger ones sang and acted
nursery rhymes, and played

A bulletin which includes the script
and directions for producing this
pageant is available from the Na-
tional Recreation Association for
fifteen cents. The material is so pre-
sented that it can be easily adapted
to meet local situations and needs.

singing games. These were followed by other song
and music acts—a roller skating routine, folk and
rope dancing, hoop rolling, and a flag drill.

Again the Rabbit’s head poked from behind the
curtains: “Because we can’t let you go to all the
side shows, we’re going to bring the side shows
to you.” The pantomime of birds and Flowers
which followed was based on Mother Goose
rhymes—the King and Queen of Play and Fun,
the huge pie filled with blackbirds, Mary, Mary
Quite Contrary and her garden. After the pan-
tomime the King ordered all the people to make
merry and the villagers came out on the stage to
dance and sing.

The next section brought sports and games to
the stage with a tumbling act, balloon races, and
an honest-to-goodness ping-pong game. The
drama and music episode was the last. Little boys
and girls presented a live “puppet” show about
“The Clown and His Bright Balloon.” A chorus
from one of the centers sang several numbers.
Then the lights were dimmed and children carry-
ing flashlights marched on the darkened stage to
presented a drill exercise in lights and shadows.

Once more the Rabbit appeared. “I came back
again—to tell you how happy we are that all of us
are trained in the joy of playing together rather
than in hatred and fighting.” While he spoke, six
hundred children lined up on the stage and sang
with the audience “God Bless America.” As they
marched away the rabbit with the big ears disap-
peared behind the CUrtains for the last time and
the summer playground season in Dayton was over.

Rehearsals for this show had been carried on
entirely at the playgrounds. The directors on each
playground received instructions and directions
for the part their group would take. Only in a
few instances did playgrounds work together,
and in such cases those playgrounds were situated
near one another. Organization and planning for
the show was handled in staff
meetings where all assignments
were made. Miss Hermene
Schwarz, director of dance and
drama, contacted each play-
ground and supervised final re-
hearsals of individual groups,

(Continued on page 123)
1 ll

What They Say About Recreation

N EALTHY BODIES need exercise as well as

H nourishment. Too many Americans have

come to look upon sport as a spectacle.

The desire to excel has led us into an unfortunate

professionalism of athletics. The joy of taking

part in games must be returned to the people.”—
Governor Herbert H. Lehman.

“Success and satisfactions go hand in hand. To
secure these twins requires careful planning. Plan-
ning does not mean regimentation or uniformity.
It does mean providing opportunities for all to
develop and share their talents.”-——-—R. Bruce Tom
in Program Helps.

“So, then, to every man his chance—«to every
man, regardless of his birth, his shining, golden
opportunity—do every man the right to live, to
work, to be himself, and become whatever thing
his manhood and his vision can combine to make
him—this, seeker, is the promise of America.”——-

Thomas IVolfe.

“What can we Americans do, in a world mad
with war and fear, to keep our own national
balance, when that balance may mean the differ-
ence between chaos and world order? . . . We can
encourage in every way the use of leisure in non-
commercial ways that are truly recreative. That
means initiative in fun-making, both private and
public, as against the mass acceptance of being
amused by 0thers.”—I’Vilfred H. Crook, Associ—
ate Professor Of Sociology, Bucknell University
Junior College.

“Happiness is often regarded as being synony-
mous with the words pleasure and fun, but its real
meaning is more basic and pervasive. . . . Happi-
ness may and often does include these two ingredi-
ents of experience, nevertheless it is a term that is
more profound than either of them. It suggests a
toned-up state of well—being, a state of vital equi-
librium. It is an intermingling of serenity and
elevation. It is satisfaction plus.”—H award Y.
M cClusley in National Parent-Teacher.

“He that will make a good use of any part of
his life must allow a large portion of it to recrea-
tion."—-J.ocke.

112

“There is complete justification for spending
time and money on supervised recreation with its
many physical, social, and moral virtues, so that
we shall not only be, strong for the emergencies of
the hour, but fit for the peace of tomorrow.”~—-
Dr. A. 5. Lamb, President, Montreal Parks and

Playgrounds Association, Incorporated.

“Boys and girls of different racial origins, of
different religions, or of different home environ-
ments, learn on the playground or in the recrea-
tion center to give and take, to respect the other
fellow’s rights, to be tolerant, and to understand
each other.”—Hor:. Dwight H. Green, Governor
of Illinois. '

“Our primary contribution to national defense
lies in the fact that the great areas of the National
Park System inspire in the people a pride of
country, and serve in a direct way to crystallize a
love of its institutions. In short, our national
shrines rank among the first of the irreplaceable
values that we must defend, for they are America,
just as are the people who live around them.”—
Newton B. Drury.

“Peace is not primarily the product of armies
or of governments, but of individuals in their daily
living. Great issues will remain long after the
present emergency is past. Each one of us in his
personal relations is helping to build or to post—
pone enduring peace.”—Artlmr E. Morgan.

“In recreation we believe there can be main-
tained and intensified the spirit of adventure, ex-
perimentation and enthusiasm that has always
characterized the American spirit. In recreation
also the more difficult tasks of living and work—
ing together can be facilitated by the development
of understandings and habits of cooperative action.
. . . Recreation has a serious responsibilty and a
high duty in the present days and in the days that
lie ahead.”——From Community Recreation, Febru-
ary, 1941, published by Chicago Recreation Com-
mission.

“Freedom is so beautiful a word that even if it
did not exist one would have to believe in it.”

Circus Time in Fort: Worth

PRINGTIME is sawdust time!

To children, old and young,

May is the signal for cir-

cus drums to roll. Fierce lions

and tigers return in gilded cages,

clowns put on their painted

grins, and boys and girls begin

to save their pennies for the
“greatest show on earth.”

But down in Fort Worth,
Texas, the circus is free! And
instead of sneaking under tent flaps for a peek at
‘the show, children in this southwestern city are
busy helping to put on the second largest amateur
community circus in the world.

Sponsored by the Recreation Department, the
circus is a community—wide project. Nearly all
the participants are boys and girls from the ac-
tivity classes and playgrounds. Expenses are paid
by the department and all performers donate their
services. Glenn' Wilcox, city
director of tumbling and
chief circus organizer,
is assisted by the play-
ground staff.

This city of 177,000
people is the scene of
much activity and ex-
citement as circus time
draws near. Property
men, stake drivers, elec-
tricians, musicians,
equestrian directors,
clowns, acrobats, and
“animals” work night
and day putting the big
show in shape for the
sawdust rings.

Equipment and prop-
erties are designed and
made by the boys and
girls. Aerial equipment
is constructed according
to professional circus
standards to insure
safety. Many boys and
girls practice all winter
on their skilled acts—
swinging ladders, aerial

By R. D. EVANS

Superintendent of Recreation

No annual date is set for Fort
Worth's big playground showI but
as soon as spring comes to town.
elephants and giraffes are taken
out of storage and clowns polish
up their grins.
time once more in Fort Worth!

For it's circus

This baby elephant. made of papier-maché.
is waiting to take her place in the parade

 

trapeze, teeter board or bound-
ing trampoline.

More than 14,000 people
crowded into Will Rogers Me-
morial Coliseum last August for
the eighth annual playground
circus. Spectators filled the seats
and aisles, overHowed into the
arena to watch the two hour
performance. ' At least 2,000
people were turned away be—
cause there was no standing room.

A spectacular grand entrance of 700 partici-
pants started the show off in “big top” style.
Dignitied flag bearers on horseback were followed
by the City Manager, the Mayor, County Judge
and Recreation Board President in an open car.
Mounted on Palmino horses, the Sheriff and Chief
of 'Police led the grand parade. .

First came the strutting leader, brass band and
baton twirlers, Joan of Arc
on an Arabian stallion, Miss

Liberty, torch bearers,
I advance guards, the fly-
ing corps, Red Cross
nurses. Quick on their
heels marched the play-
ground children dressed
as Gauchos, rhumba
dancers, sheep herders
and other natives of
South America. Repre-
senting the Mexican
neighbors over the bor-
der were dancers, bull
fighters, matadors, to-
readors, and natives
With their tough little
burros. Egyptian slaves
carried a circus Cleopa-
tra reclining on a Pa-
languin.

The parade of sports
followed with children
dressed appropriately
for baseball, softball,
tennis, volleyball, bad~
  h a   minton, and basketball.

Photo Mame; Cartoon characters,

113

    

114 CIRCUS TIME IN FORT WORTH

clowns, dogs, ponies, and bicycles brought up the
rear.

Under the lone star fiag of Texas the Queen of
the Circus began her sawdust reign. The corona-
tion of the queen created much interest among
playground children. Favorites for the throne had
been selected and votes were canvassed for six
weeks. Defeated candidates were attendants to
the queen.

Highlight of the show was the group of two
hundred children performing tumbling feats, pyra-
mid'building, and teeter board acts in separate
rings around the arena. A “star” group of boys
and girls did three high somersaults to shoulder,
back air circles turning twice, and jumped from
the teeter board to a chair balanced on the shoulder
of a performer. These children had' received free
tumbling instruction as a part of the city’s recre-
ation program. Supplementing their act was a
crack team of tumblers, Southwestern and A.A.U.
champions, who were brought by visitors from
Abilene, Texas.

Under dimmed lights a corps of forty girls
made bright rhythmic patterns with lighted batons.
Boys from the Y.M.C.‘A. performed an act with
lighted Indian Clubs, and another group of boys
in bronze pantomimed famous statues.

A parade of eighty-five grotesque heads and
animals worn by playground children brought
amused exclamations from the crowd. A life-
sized elephant lumbered around the track followed
by a long-necked, papier—maché giraffe. Greta
Garbo and a puffy-checked Mortimer were among
the dozens of monstrous “heads” weaving their
way around the arena on amazingly little bodies
and legs. All of these circus characters were made
by the playground directors and the children.
Papier—mfiché, wire, cotton material, tow sacking
and paint were transformed into anything from
the elephant’s curling-under trunk to Garbo’s
glamour curls.

A hundred clowns rolled and tumbled and
grinned for two hours. The mystified audience
watched twenty of them climb one by one from a
tiny bantam car. Children clung awe-stricken to
their seats as acrobats swayed on a twenty foot
ladder and a wave of surprised laughter swept the
coliseum as the ear—bursting boom of a cannon
sent only a little bird fiying into a cage.

Mexican girls in beautiful native costumes sang
and danced. The Sokol Club of Czechoslovakian
girls gave group gymnastic drills in native gym
suits. Fifty girls did ballet and tap dance acts.

Four sets of square dancing in costumes added
western “fiavor” to the circus.

A professional and two boys from the Recrea-
tion Department classes did a slack wire act.
Seventy-five performing dogs, comedy acrobats,
bounding trampoline, trick riding, horse roping, a
spectacular fire dive by two young girls, and a
bicycle race kept the audience busy trying to see
everything at once.

Group singing of the Star—Spangled Banner
brought to a grand finale the eighth annual com-
munity circus.

The Fort Worth circus gave its first show in
1931 in a vacant lot across from the Recreation
Building. One of the carnival men in the city, a
good friend of the Department, loaned some side
walls of canvas to provide a circus atmosphere.
A stage was built for dancing, novelty numbers,
statues, and special acts. A circus ring was made
and filled with sawdust. All 'the feature acts——
tumbling, dog acts, and clown numbers—were put
in the ring.

The grand entry was, of course, a parade around
the hippodrome track just as under the big top.
But instead of the Fort Worth WPA Orchestra
of thirty-nine pieces and the Recreation Depart-
ment’s Band of sixty players which now provide
music for the circus, the first show had only the
accompaniment of a piano.

Enthusiasm for this homemade circus was so
great that it was necessary to hold the second an-
nual circus in the Recreation Building which
boasted a seating capacity of 4,000.

The first circus was far different from the prize
winning show of recent years. Clowns, dog acts,
simple pyramid building, tumbling and dancing
made up the acts. Many of the same boys and
girls have participated in the shows year after
year. The clowns now have monthly get-togethers
to Work out new stunts and gags. Each clown
plans his own facial design and costume.

Professional performers have donated their ser-
vices to give added thrills to several of the per-
formances. Hubert Castle, whose superior wire act
is now featured by Ringling Brothers, was once a
guest star.

- A parade of all performers through the business
section of the city on the afternoon of the circus
adds to the interest. Huge posters are made by the
boys and girls and displayed throughout the city
in conspicuous places. The newspapers also give
the circus much publicity. When interest war-

(Continued on page 123)

Who’s Next?

HE MAN in.the white coat stand—
Ting beside the barber chair flip—

ped the apron twice and turned to the three
customers sitting by the wall.

“Who’s next?”

One of the men rose, took off his coat, hung it
on the wall and slipped into the chair. The other
two paid no attention. They went on reading.

Just as simple as that. The governor, the bank
president, the party leader are all equal in the eyes
of the law and the barber. Yet this scene that
~ takes place every day in every village, town and
city in the United States is the essence of de-
mocracy; Of respect for the rights of other men.
Of cooperation . . . and decency and fair play.

Listen to the two men who are waiting. One is
reading the sports pages. After a while he puts
the paper down.

“Looks like the Reds will breeze in again.”

“You mean the Dodgers.”

“The Dodgers! You’re crazy. The Reds have
the pitchers.”

“You mean you’re crazy. Haven’t the Dodgers
got Kirby Higbe this year? He’ll win enough
games to beat the Reds.”

“Oh, yeah! Walters and Derringer are still tOps
for my money.”

“Well, you’re entitled to your opinion. This is
a free country.”

“VVho’s next?” . . . “This is a free country.”
. . . You have heard the words a thousand times
So have I. So has every male in this country.
Heard them without thinking. Without realizing
that this scene and these phrases that we take for
granted are part of the deep concepts of a demo—
cratic nation. You would never hear them said

in lands ruled by Kommissars and Schutztaf’fel. ,

Because the Kommissar comes first. The Kom-
missar is always right. Nor would you hear many
other statements we use in our daily life:

“First come, first served.”

“He’s got his rights.”

“May the best man win.”

“Give a guy a chance.”

“Play the game.”

“Fair and square.”

These expressions are verbal
symbols. They mean something

By JOHN R. TUNIS

This article by Mr. Tunis. who is
widely known as a writer on sports
and as author of Sport for the life»
Fun of It, has been reprinted from '
Democracy and Sport by John R.
Tunisll by permission of the author.

Copyright I94| by the United
NewspapersMagazineCorporation.

to every American. In fact, they
register to every human being no
matter where he lives—mif he exists under the
democratic way of life. In lands as far apart as
Canada and South America, or Finland and Aus—
tralia, people instinctively respond when they hear
such phrases. They stem from a phase of exis-
tence indigenous to democratic nations—the give
and take of the family group and the neighbor—
hood and business life.

Nowhere are the ways and words of democracy
better illustrated than in sports. Day after day we
see democracy in action on playing fields, dia—
monds, courts and rinks. Through membership
and leadership in athletic contests, boys and girls
learn what democratic living means. Their guid-
ing words are: “Play the game !” “Fair play!” and
“May the best man win!”

Remember, this kind of spirit can happen only
in a democratic land. ‘Why? Because in a totali-
tarian land the dice are loaded even in the world
of sport. Even the referee is first of all a party
member. He is a party member because he is ap-
pointed by the Sportkommissar, who also is a
party member. And the Sportkommissar is a
party member because he is appointed by the
Fiihrer, for obvious reasons. No one questions
his delegate, the Sportkommissar, either. And no
one questions his delegate, the referee.

Let me give you an example of sport under a
totalitarian regime and you will better ap—
preciate this difference. Before the present war,
the Blau-VVeiss Tennisklub of Dresden won a
championship, only to be disqualified later. It ap-
peared that several members of the team, on being
queried afterwards by a public official, revealed
doubts about the righteousness of certain Nazi
policies. In disqualifying the team, the official ex—
plained: “Only those can be victors in the Third
Reich who have mastered the National Socialist
ideology and show that they can
hold their ground not only in
sporting contests but in national

“Fair play!” Totalitarians are
not interested. “May the best
man win!” First of all, is he a

(Continued on page 123)
115

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

N TS . “Life in an Ant Hill,”, by Albert Whit-
man. Pennsylvania WPA, Harrisburg, 47
pp. Fifty cents. Large print and simple pic—

tures. For younger readers.

“Aviation,” new merit badge pamphlet. Boy
Scouts of America, 2 Park Avenue, New York
City. Catalog No. 3306, Twenty cents. A help in
vocational exploration.

Bees. “The Golden Throng,” a book about bees
by Edwin W. Teale. Dodd, Mead and Company,
New York City, 208 pp. $3.00. The early spring
urge that tempts bees out of doors might also
tempt recreationists to delve into the interesting
life of a bee colony.

“Cacti of Arizona.” Science Bulletin 4, Uni-
versity of Arizona, Tucson, 134 pp., 52 plates.
$1.00. Excellent illustrations of eighty native
species with a section on culture of cacti.

Carver, George. Washington, professor of chem-
istry at Tuskegee Institute, Alabama, was born of
slave parents in the early ’60’s and swapped for a
horse. Graduating from Iowa State when about
thirty years old, he has made 300 useful things
from peanuts and 100 useful products from the
sweet potato. He is a pioneer in emphasizing the
use of farm products for manufactured goods.
The George Washington Carver Foundation is
being built in his honor to guarantee that his work

will be carried on. He has placed his modest sav-
ings in the fund.

Conservation. A treaty entitled, “Nature Pro-
tection and Wildlife Preservation in the Western
' Hemisphere” was signed by plenipotentiaries of
six Latin-American governments and the United
States October 12, 1940. Creating national parks
and nature monuments, protecting natural scenery,
striking geological formations and natural objects
of aesthetic value were among the twelve articles
adopted.

“Conservation of American Resources,” by
Charles N. Elliott. Turner E. Smith and Com—
pany, 672 pp. $1.80. Practical suggestions for
study and activities.

Dutch Elm Disease is here to stay. We may as
well learn to live with the disease. It has been
eradicated in Old Lyme, Connecticut, but has ap-

116

peared in nineteen new towns of the state. An in—
fected tree may not show external symptoms.

“Ersatz” materials born of research, such as
beet sugar (1801) and oleomargarine (1870)
make their way on their merits. Substitutes are
often made necessary by war. What new forms
or principles of recreation may come out of the
present war?

Garden Center. The Cleveland Garden Center
occupies an abandoned boat house in the Fine Arts
Garden. Supported by the Cleveland Garden
Clubs, it offers a lecture course, monthly exhibits,
and garden library. It also serves as a plant clinic.
Pittsburgh and other cities have borrowed this
garden center idea.

Hawks. “Common Hawks of North America.”
Emergency Conservation Committee, 734 Lexing-
ton Avenue, New York City, 1940. 25 pp., illus.
A guide to conservation with introduction 'by Ira
N. Gabrielson, director of National Fish and
Wildlife Service.

Hunting. “Dersu the Trapper,” by V. K. Ar—
seniev. E. P. Dutton and Company, 353 pp. $3.00.
Exploring Siberia. Interesting translation from
Russian.

Japanese Beetles were once considered in recre—
ation circles as public enemy No. 1. They first'ap-
peared in New Jersey in 1916. In a new locality
they reach their peak population in ten years and
then decline. They damage fruit trees and acres
of turf. Wasp parasites, fungus diseases and other
enemies keep them in check. It is estimated that to
date they cost the State of Connecticut a half
million dollars.

“Life on Other I/Vorlds,” by H. Spencer Jones.
Macmillan Company, New York City, 299 pp.
$3.00. Reasonable answers from data.

Literature. “Nature Smiles in Verse,” com-
piled by Bernal R. VVeimer. Bethany College,
West Virginia. $1.50. Humorous biological verses.
for the campfire.

Jl/Iedicine. “Plague on Us,” by Geddes Smith.
Commonwealth Fund, Boston, 365 pp. $3.00. Out—
standing scientific book‘ chosen for February by
the Scientific Book Club. Up to date, entertain—

(Continued on page 134)

Ambassador to the Court of St. James

OHN GILBERT WINANT, lanky, dark-haired,
First Vice-President of the National Recrea-
tion Association, has gone abroad as Ameri-

ca’s No. I envoy—Ambassador to the Court of
St. James. To this fifty-two year old humani-
tarian and public servant has been delegated the
job of maintaining diplomatic relations between
the United States and war-time England.

Ambassador W inant has been actively interested
in the recreation movement for many years. He
has been a member of the Board of Directors of
the National Recreation Association since 1927,
‘and after the death of Dr. John H. Finley in
March, 1940, had a major responsibility as First
Vice-President of the Association.

Speaking at the Twenty-fifth NatiOnal Recrea-
tion Congress last fall, Mr. Winant said, “It has
been my lot, the last two years, to be in Europe,
and I moved from one country to another as
countries have been invaded and have fallen. I
want to tell you that after that experience I be-
lieve more deeply than I ever did that this thing
we call recreation, or play, or what you will ; this
thing that we have tried to nourish and support
and develop and spread among our people; this
thing that is spontaneous and has to do not only
with play but with fair play—is one of the most
fundamental things in life.”

In recreation circles John Winant has been com-
pared with Joseph Lee, Boston-born aristocrat and
democrat and “godfather of play,” who learned
early to live a simple life and gave unstintingly of
his time and money for the underprivileged.

Son of a wealthy New York realty operator,
Mr. \Vinant was educated at aristocratic schools
in the East. From St. Paul’s School for Boys in
Concord, he went to Princeton. After college he
returned to St. Paul’s for a short time as a teacher
of American history. His interests were many:
military strategy, American politics, gentleman
farming, books, dogs, painting, Arabian horses.
But neither business, in which he indulged occa-
sionally, nor any of these other interests was to be
his main concern, for early in life he chose a
career of social justice.

Since then his work has taken him to many
cities and countries, in war and in peace. From
the New Hampshire legislature in 1917 he went to
France. Refused by the American army because

 

PM Photo by Mary Marr
JOHN GILBERT WINANT

of poor eyesight, the young legislator went into
the French air force and eventually entered the
American forces as captain of an observation

_ squadron. After the war he returned with a dec-

oration for valor and went immediately back to
Concord and the legislature.

At the age of 36, Mr. Winant was elected gov-
ernor of New Hampshire, and youngest state
executive in the country, on an anti-child labor and
pro-48 hour week platform. He proceeded to push
liberal labor legislation despite strong opposition
from politicians and others. The traditionally
right-wing “Granite State” accepted this Repub-
lican’s “New Deal”—-—a minimum wage law, relief
legislation, aid to dependent children, an employ-
ment plan. He was elected to a second term in

117

118 ‘ AMBASSADOR TO THE COURT OF ST. JAMES

1931, then to a precedent-smashing third term.
No governor in New Hampshire had served more
than one term since 1879. ‘

In 1935 President Roosevelt called him to
Washington to head the first Social Security
Board, but in 1936 he resigned the chairmanship
to stump the country in defense of the social se—
curity program. To Republican Winant social
security was not a matter of party differences.

Then came another call to service which sent
the former governor to Geneva as a member of
the International Labor Office where he later be-
came director. He was in Geneva fighting for uni-
versal labor standards when Hitler invaded
Czechoslovakia. He was in France working with
French labor leaders when the Nazis marched on
Paris. W'hen war drove the Labor Office out of
Switzerland, Mr. Winant brought this still-func-
tioning arm of the League of Nations to Montreal.

Then in the early months of 1941 came the first
word from Washington that the United States’
new emissary to England would be progressive,
labor—conscious John Winant, student of social
conditions at home and abroad and already a
trusted friend of Britain’s now-powerful labor
leaders.

The well-born, war-time ambassador has often
been likened in political philosophy and appear-
ance to War-President Abraham Lincoln. Tall,
angular, and shaggy-browed, he dresses carelessly,
speaks with utmost care. Words come slowly,
always as if he must find the exact phrase, the
most accurate expression. But people forget his
slow speech in the life-and-death earnestness of
his words—in the kindly sympathy with which he
listens to a troubled story—in the humble advice
sincerely given.

John Winant, public servant, is not a profes-
sional diplomat and never was a professional poli-
tician. He launched his first campaign for gover-
nor with these words:

“Just below my home on the Millville Road
there lies a beautiful meadow, and across the
meadow you can see the Bow Hills, and in my
home you can hear the laughter of the children;
the joy and peace that rest there are born of an
unselfish woman’s love. To the tiny valley I owe
the sense of space, and to the rolling hills a sense
of time, and to the woman a happiness that neither
space nor time can ever efface. It is from this
backgrOUnd and from such surroundings that I
find myself projected into the heat of a political
campaign.”

New Hampshire knows this man as an adopted
citizen and a friend. His neighbors know him as
a man who listens and understands and gives
freely of his time and money:

There is nothing of the arm-chair philanthro-
pist in John Winant. He has talked with working-
men, made friends with them, asked questions,
studied their problems of wages, hours, housing
and nutrition. The weight of his means and influ-
ence has been used in their behalf. He has spent
years working for orderly social advance in de-
mocracy. He sees problems of politics and eco-
nomics in terms of men, often underprivileged
and overworked.

When first inaugurated governor of New
Hampshire, he startled old-guard Republicans
with the statement that he had learned his Repub-
licanism from a Civil War Republican who taught
him that the party originally put human rights
above property rights.

To the new envoy, foreign policy “cannot and
should not be considered apart from social and
economic policy.” In his first address in England
on March 18 he said: “International cooperation
can give to the great mass of men and women a
higher standard of living than our forefathers
would have ever dreamed possible. While we have
accepted the machine, we have not always learned
to cooperate with one another to make the machine
the servant and not the master of mankind.”

His social and political philosophy was clearly
stated in his letter of resignation from the Social
Security Board and later in his statement before
the New York City League of Women Voters
after his appointment as Ambassador to Britain:

“Having seen the tragedy of war, I have been
consistently interested in the ways of peace. Hav-
ing seen some of the cruelties of the depression,
I have wanted to help with others in lessening the
hardships, the sufferings and the humiliations
forced upon American citizens because of our
previous failure as a nation to provide effective
social machinery for meeting the problems of de-
pendency and unemployment.”

And again, “The democracies have been caught
unprepared in social policy as well as in armament
and their failure to solve the problems of unem-
ployment and security have played into the hands
of Fascism and National Socialism, thus contribut-
ing to division within the house of democracy.”

In his English speech Ambassador Winant also
said, “The great mass of common men want a

(Continued on page 130)

The Popularity of Card Games

ous for centuries that

cards have been among the most important
forms of recreation in our Western civilization,
little research has ever been done on their folk
popularity. In the 18th century the “Hoyle”
books began to appear, and since that time the
rules and procedures of most of the common
games have been pretty well codified. But how
many of these games were actually played and by
how many people were questions either ignored or
guessed at — indeed, were probably questions
,which could not be answered authoritatively until
the development of the modern technique of cross-
section sampling.

ALTHOUGH it has been obvi-

The card manufacturers have called upon this
technique, generally associated with our largest
advertising agencies and with men like Cherring-
ton, Roper and Gallup, in making their present

study. Resident research canvassers in twenty-.

four widely scattered cities were employed and
systematic, door-to-door sampling was carried on
for a period extending from September to Novem-

ber, 1940, until every section of the United States .-

and every economic level came to be represented
in the proportions dictated by census figures.

The basic subject covered in the ten questions
asked every family interviewed was, “Does your
family play cards?” Eighty-three per cent, more
than four-fifths, said they did, and this total was
bolstered by the fact that an even larger percent-
age (87%) said they had at least one deck of cards
in their home at the time the question was asked.
Only 83% of total American homes 'have radios
and only 36% have telephones.

In interpreting the results of this question, the
card manufac'turers’ booklet
states a premise which thus

By ROBERT S. HUTCHINGS

ance are shown in the accom-
panying graphs, one of which
lists the most widely-known card games found in
the survey and the other the ones which were
best liked. The need for asking these questions
separately is obvious, as the divergence of answers
shows.

For the past ten years, bridge writers have been
mentioning fifteen million and twenty million as
the number of bridge players in the United States;
occasionally a particularly daring writer has men-
tioned thirty million. In all cases, however, these
figures represented at best only shy hopes and wild
guesses of people interested in the game—yet the
new survey indicates that in every case, these
hopes and guesses have been too low.

Anyone who has interested himself in card
games will find few surprises in the list of the
nine best-known games shown in the accompanying
graph. As has been suggested, these areonot neces-
sarily the most popular or the best-liked games,
but simply those which were known by the great-
est number of people questioned in the survey.

Rummy and solitaire rank first and second in
the list, for one reason because they are played by
children as well as adults. Even more significantly,
however, “rummy” and “solitaire” are generic
titles and refer, not to any single game, but to
dozens upon dozens of variations. If the generic
word “bridge” had been Used in the survey, it will
be noticed that this would have ranked first, as
44% played contract and 34% auction.

Of the other games listed in Graph I, only one
-—poker——is primarily a stake game, and. only two
-——poker and pinochle—-—are games which cannot be
at least arbitrarily placed in the whist family of
games, which, of course, are
games predominantly associ-

seems eminently true —— that
with the exception of listen-
ing to the radio, going to the
‘ movies and reading, card

games are the most widely-
known form of recreation in

the United States.

Of the other questions
asked in the survey, the re-
sults of two of next import-

The Association of American Playing
Card Manufacturers has published an
eight page folder of great importance
to present and future card historians
and of wide interest generally. The
booklet. entitled "Four-Fifths of a
Nation." is based on the first defini-

tive study ever made of the popular-
ity of card games. The publication is
available from the headquarters of the

Association at 420 Lexington Avenue.
New York City. Ten centsI prepaid.

ated with the home. Two in-
f erences can be made immedi-
ately from these facts: that
stake games are becoming of
minor importance in this
country, and that the family
is preeminently the card game
“unit” in the United States.

List in “Fourth-fifths of a
Nation” are seventy other

119

120 THE POPULARITY OF CARD GAMES

Graph I

THESE GAMES ARE PLAYED IN U. S. HOMES
(Total Interviews Equals 100%)
Of American families interviewed:

49% Play Rummy 34% Play Auction*

45% “ Solitaire 32% “ Pinochle
44% “ Contract 30% “ Hearts
37% “ Poker 22% “ 500

*Almost half the Auction players did not know Contract

 

 

games named by people who were questioned in the
survey. Some of these are old American favorites
of the Pitch, StOps, and Euchre families, others
are foreign importations, and still others are games
not found in any “Hoyle” and completely unfa-
miliar to card authorities. The games played by
children particularly have strange and exotic names
which throw no light on how they are played or in
what card family they belong.

The social “rightness” of being able to play
bridge is clearly indicated in Graph II, which
shows the eight most popular games as compared
with the nine best-known games shown in Graph
I. Contract and auction combined is the favorite
game among 40% of the men and 65% of the
women, far higher percentages than in the case of
any other game.

The continuing appeal of auction bridge may
surprise some people, who think this game was
supplanted almost completely by contract bridge
in the early ’30’s. The game shows up again and
again throughout the survey, however, attesting to
the “lag” between one income level and another
and also to the astonishing length of time a truly
vital game may survive. Even whist is listed in
the Graph.

The case of rummy and solitaire in Graph II is
almost like that of boiled custard of which it is
said everybody knows the taste and nobody likes
the fiavor. Instead of being near the top of the
list of most popular games, they are near the bot-
tom and in their place are those time honored
favorites, Pinochle and Poker.

Contract bridge, naturally enough, is an “eco-
nomic level” game; 79% of the rich play it, but
only 15% of the poor. Pinochle is also an eco-
nomic level game but in directly Opposite fashion—
the lower the income, the more popular it be~
comes. Among women, it was the most popular
game of all in the “D” or lowest income group and
among men, the most popular game in the “C” and
“D” classes.

The reputation of poker as the most democratic

of all card games receives a thorough justification
in the survey; it was second in popularity among
men in every income group and in every section of
the country. The growing popularity of the game
among women was also indicated in the survey,
although its tradition has previously been almost
entirely masculine.

attracted the professional interest of social inter-
preters ranging all the way from Robert and Helen
Lynd to Helen Hokinson, showed up in the survey ,'
as important and widespread indeed. Thirty-five '
per cent of all women bridge players questioned
belonged to at least one such group.

The amazing “social” bridge club, which has i
I
.I

Equally important were the answers to the ques-
tion, “How often do you play bridge?” a question
asked of all bridge players. The results were: at
least once a week, 41% ; twice-a-month, 16%, and
once-a-month, 21%. In total, this represents a
tremendous number of bridge hands—three billion
a month at least, if you are willing to make the
necessary assumptions and translate the percent-
ages into national population figures.

Because “Four-fifths of a Nation” represents
the first study of its kind ever made, there are
obviously no comparisons which can be made with
any previous work. Throughout the survey, how-
ever, are indications that bridge has yet to reach
its peak in popularity, particularly in View of the
number of children who play cards and the num-

ber of auction players who have still to learn the
newer game.

Whatever the future of any particular game
(Continued on page 130)

Graph ll —

THE MOST POPULAR CARD GAMES

FOR MEN AND WOMEN

(Number of replies for 9 most popular games
equals 100%)

Of the women interviewed:

National:

47% Prefer Contract 6% Prefer 500

18% “ Auction 5% “ Poker

11% “ Pinochle 3% ” Whist
7% “ Rummy 2% “ Solitaire

1% “ Hearts

Of the men interviewed:

National:

30% Prefer Contract 4% Prefer 500

22% “ Poker ‘ 3% “ Whist

21% “ Pinochle 2% “ Hearts

10% “ Auction 2% “ Solitaire
6% “ Rummy

WORLD AT PLAY

LESS than a year ago
the Scranton, Pennsyl-
vania, Bureau of Rec-
reation organized an
Amateur Symphony Guild, the youngest member
of which is nine years of age, the oldest fifty—four.
Occupations range from students to truck drivers,
salesmen, school teachers, both employed and un-
employed, newspaper branch office managers, a
miner, a mechanical engineer, a postman, and a
music teacher. The differences in age and occupa-
tions are compensated for by a systematic method
.of selective auditions. On March 10th the Ama-
teur Symphony Guild joined with the local Junior
Temple Chorus, which although not affiliated with
the Bureau of Recreation operates with volunteer
leadership, for a concert held at the Masonic
Temple. A program was given which included
music by Mozart, Mendelssohn, Dett, Bellini, and
Victor Herbert.

Scranton Develops
Music Groups

THE Brattleboro, Ver-
mont, hobby show held
February 25-26, 1941,
under the auspices of
the Community Recreation Council, included ex-
hibits ranging from oil paintings to collections of
paper napkins, automobile caps, and pictures of
the Dionne quintuplets. There were eleven classes
in the exhibit: Creative Art; Handicrafts; Camera
Craft; Collections; Models; Natural History;
Plants and Flowers; Children’s Exhibits; Special
Hobbies; Club Exhibits; and Woodwork and
Cabinet Making.

Brattleboro Holds a
Hobby Exhibit

THERE are twenty-
eight sports on the mu-
nicipal calendar of the
Municipal Athletic As-
sociation of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, according to
the 1940 report, and this is the most diversified
program since the inception of the Recreation De-
‘ partment twenty-one years ago. Among recent de-
ve10pments are an industrial dart ball league and
the Municipal Bike Club. A baseball league for
boys under fifteen years of age known as “Stars
of Yesterday” proved so popular that it became
necessary to organize a new league for groups
reaching their seventeenth birthday. A year after

Municipal Sports in
Milwaukee

the organization of the Stars of Yesterday a base-
ball school was introduced for boys between the
ages of ten and seventeen who were eligible to
attend the special courses.

“FUN FOR ALL; all for
fun” folk dances at the
University of Wiscon-
sin drew 300 enthUSi-
asts every Tuesday afternoon last summer, even
when the temperature reached ninety degrees. The
leadership for the dancing came from students do-
ing practice work in recreation leadership. Many
elementary and high school teachers came to
observe and get notes on this new recreation for
recess programs and school activities.

“Fun for All” Folk
Dancing Promoted

 

A FLOATING play-
ground has been built
to provide a place
where children could
play at the Mann-Bryant Logging Camp on
Simoon Sound in British Columbia. There has
been a floating school at the camp for several
years, and since there was no place for the chil-
dren’s recreation it was decided to build a place.
With cedar logs a float or raft was built which
was decked with two-inch planks, making a sur-
face area about 60 feet by 40 feet. Around this
there is a four-foot fence t0pped with netting 12
feet high to stop balls from going into the water.
The deck is marked off for badminton, which

many of the children enjoy. Roller skates and
scooters have their turn and plans are made to try
basketball and other games.

Floating Flayground at
a Logging Camp

MEMBERS of the Hik-
ing Club in Berkeley,
California, participated
in about 240 events
during the year 1939-40, with a total attendance of
6,648. These active California hikers are adults
from many walks of life—business and profes-
sional men and women, housewives and retired
people from Berkeley and the surrounding area.
Although the programs centered about hiking,
most of them were coordinated with other forms
of social and recreational activity. The year’s
schedule included 112 hikes; twenty overnight

121

Hiking Club Reports a
Happy Year

122 WORLD AT PLAY

Western Reserve University

School of Applied Social Sciences
Cleveland. Ohio
0

I announces a

' Group Work Institute

June 9th through 20th. I94!

Open to a limited number of group workers
who are graduates of an accredited college or
university and who have had two or more years

of professional experience in group work.
C ozmer in:

Practice of Group Worlt . . . . . . . . . . .MlSS COYLE and

MR. ROBERTS
Understanding of Individuals in Groups. .MRS. FARRAR

Analysis of Program Activities. .. . .MR. BOWER and
MR. WEINAN DY

For fem/9e1- detail: send for the
Special Folder

The regular two-year program in social work. leading
to the degree of Master of Science in Social Admin-
istration. opens on September 22nd for the academic

year l94l-I942. Application should be made immedi-
ately to Professor ELIZABETH P. LYMAN.

Director of Admissions.

camping trips including skiing groups; thirty-six
dinners and camp sUppers ; twenty-five educational
programs, meetings, photo exhibits, conservation
work groups; twelve “Hikers-Mixer Dances”;
and about forty other recreational events with ex-
pert leaders for bicycling, riding, skating, swim-
ming, volleyball, etc. All hikes were carefully
supervised and pre-scouted, with important data,
necessary permits and reservations obtained early.

The Wisconsin Recreation Leaders’ Labora-
tory—From June 1 to 6, 1941, recreation lead-
ers from all over Wisconsin will come together
at Phantom Lake, Y.M.C.A. Camp near Mukwon-
ago, for the Recreation Leaders’ Laboratory. Here
attention will be focussed on cultural recreation—
drama, music, and painting; on social recreation,
covering social and party games, and folk danc-
ing; and on manual recreation, including leather
work, metal work, and the making of archery
equipment. The main emphasis this year will be
on the philosophy underlying recreation and its
approach from the point of View of the church,
the school, welfare work, the community, and the
family.

 

The total cost for the laboratory is $10 for the
six days. This includes lodging, meals, and labora-
tory fees. Last year forty-four people attended
the full period of the laboratory and forty part
time. '

A program .may be secured by writing Mrs.
Marie J.‘ Kellogg, Rural Sociology Department,
College of Agriculture, Madison, Wisconsin.

Meeting of the National Conference on State
Parks———The twenty—first meeting of the Na-
tional Conference on State Parks will be held on
June 2, 3, and 4, 1941, at picturesque Pere Mar-
quette State Park situated at the junction of the
Illinois and Mississippi Rivers, the largest recrea-
tion area in the Illinois State Park System. The
park has been developed with lodge and cabin ac-
commodations for visitors, with short drives, and
long foot and horse trails.

A program has been prepared which will include
discussions of the problems arising in state parks
as a result of the defense program. Field trips
will be arranged. Further information may be

secured from Miss Harlean James, 801 Union
Trust Building, Washington, D. C.

A Child Checking Service

(Continued from page 110)

left by their parents with the thought that a new
experience in child life awaited them.

In developing the service some publicity was
necessary but not a great deal, since the child
checking system answered an existing need in this
seashore area.

A new chapter has been written in Ocean City’s
community life !

Publicity for Playgrounds
(Continued from page 94)

every new guest speaker brings in approximately
ten new listeners who become acquainted with the
recreation activities of the city and are potential
participants. The guests themselves are experi-
encing a novel type of recreation and at the same
time adding to the ranks of the citizen-friends of
the Department. a

CIRCUS TIME IN FORT WORTH 123

Circus Time in Fort Worth
(Continued from page 114)

rants, a second performance is given in the late
summer or fall.

In 1937 the circus was a part of the Town and
Country Horse Show giving a performance each
evening for a week and then a mass performance
on Sunday afternoon. At that time‘ the American
Weekly gave this circus top rating as the second
largest amateur circus in the world.

There is no mass rehearsal for the circus. All
acts are worked out individually and then music
set to the act. This simplifies planning for the
band and actors, prevents confusion and saves
time. The band conductor has all the music cued
.for the acts and the drummer with his rolls and
bangs gives a real circus touch to the acrobat and
trapeze performances.

Who's Next?

(Continued from page 115)

member of the party? “Play the game!” Yes, but
has he mastered the National Socialist ideology?
“Who’s next?” When you hear that phrase
again, remember what stands back of it. A hun-
dred and sixty-five years of the tradition of fair
play stand behind it. Generations and generations
of people who felt that the best man should win—
and tried to practice that belief, too. Who re-
, spected the rights of others. The rights of the
man beside you, waiting to have his hair cut.

“Who’s next?” It’s nothing. Yet it’s every-
thing. It’s all democracy in that barbershop.

Dayton’s Playground Fair.
(Continued from page 111)

checking on cues for entrances and exits. During
the week before the show, which was scheduled
for August 28th, each playground director took
his group on a picnic hike to the Band Shell and
staged a final individual rehearsal at that time.
This gave the children a chance to become fa-
miliar with the grounds of the park and placement
of the stage.

The entire production had one full rehearsal at
the Band Shell two nights before the show. This
one rehearsal was sufficient, since each group
worked independently and everything fitted to-
gether smoothly. Each group had a map of the

   

 

 

   

Here’s the

New
DIAMOND

  
 
  

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete.infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HDRSESHDEZCD.

46|0 GRAND AVENUE

DULUTH. MINN. '
—

stage and the line of march as well as a complete
program.

The synchronizing of the show was completed
by the orchestra leader, the puppet handlers, and
the two stage men who had cue sheets with de-
tailed cues for each number. The WPA orchestra
had several rehearsals with the director of the
show and one or two with special groups.

Lighting was handled with a minimum of effort.
The stationary lights above the Shell and the two
big floods on the ground were used at all times
except during the flashlight drill when all but the
blue overheads were turned out. WPA and NYA
groups helped to construct the scenery and make

HAND BDDK

MAKE BUCKTEX VESTS

    
 

 

Complete instructions for 72
_ educational leathercraft proj-
"OTEd-ln set: ects. Many shown for first
wagging“ time in this 1941 edition. No
l’ tools for many items. From So

will" "u up. No obligation. Write today

HORTONCRAFT estates:

124 " SOME SPECIAL EVENTS ON 1940 PLAYGROUNDS

SAFE, COMFORTABLE SEATING '

will draw crowds to your events . . .

 

. Universal bleachers now serve hundreds of school and
civic recreation centers. Their sturdy design; careful work-
manship; and quality materials make them economical to
own and maintain. They may be moved, in part or total,

to new locations to meet temporary needs. Both the steel
portable, shown at the

left, and the wood type
above may easily be
erected or dismantled
without the use of numer-
ous hand tools.

 

Write today for informative
bulletins and cost estimate.

UNIVERAL BLEACHER CO.
CHAMPAIGN. ILLINOIS

 

costumes. In every instance the children helped
to design and make the props used in their acts.
Costumes were kept in large corrugated boxes
and paper bags. Each playground had one or two
paper cartons with its name on the outside and a

number of large paper bags inside. The children'

changed into their costumes in the basement of
the Band Shell and each child’s clothing was put in
a bag with his (or- her name on it. The playgrounds
reported in half hour shifts so that the dressing
rooms were never swamped.

Despite the rain a large crowd attended the
show—one of the most enthusiastic audiences
ever to see a Dayton playground review. The
“Fair” idea proved spontaneous and carnival spirit
spread quickly through the crowd. The pageant
emphasized individual acts and gave each play-
ground an opportunity to work out its own proj-
ect. Yet it eliminated all but one general rehearsal,
much hard work, and last minute hair-tearing.

When the Fair was over, many of Dayton’s
citizens realized what a diversified program of
well planned activities was waiting for their chil-
dren when they went “to play in the park.”

Some Special Events on |940

Playgrounds
(Continued from page 90)

people. The splendid cooperation of community
groups with the Playground and Recreation Com-
mission made the event possible.

A Soap Box Derby. A popular event conducted
by recreation ochials in Detroit last summer was
a soap box derby sponsored by the Detroit News.
A general and technical committee, ofncial weight
masters and safety directors, and six judges super-
vised the contest held last July. Each boy had to
have his car inspected by the technical committee
before he was allowed to enter the derby.

Dance Festival in Brooklyn. Cooperation was in
order on August 17th when approximately 2,000
girls, ranging in age from eight to sixteen and rep-
resenting 115 Park Department playgrounds, took
part in the Monster Dance Festival at Prospect
Park. Each member of the dance groups attended
regular instruction classes for five weeks and then
made the costume which she was to wear in the
program. The festival was preceded and followed
by a colorful procession of military, sailor, air-
plane, minuet, cowboy, Virginia reel, and Mardi
gras dancers.

A Lantern Festival. Fifteen hundred candles
burned, winked, smoked, and went out inside the
fantastic paper lanterns made and presented by the
playground children at the annual lantern parade
in Reading, Pennsylvania. In the thirty-two play-
grounds throughout the city handcraft classes
worked on the large paper lanterns of birds,
flowers, flags, animals, and comic characters. Five
thousand spectators turned out to watch the long
line of children bobbing along with their lanterns
behind the playground band. '

A Living Chess Game. Under the starlight and
Hoodlights of the Milwaukee Stadium, late in July,
two blindfolded chess experts played a living
game with children for chessmen. Wearing regal
robes and towering decorative hats, the chesmen
stood on a thirty-two foot square chessboard and
leaped into places as the blindfolded players called
their moves over a public address system. Eight
hundred boys and girls on both sides of the big
chessboard sat or squatted on the football field and
played off the first rounds of the junior chess tour-
nament of Milwaukee. Over 3,000 people braved
the sweltering discomfort of 90 degrees to watch
the spectacle.

Game Booklets Available—The Hillerich and
Bradsby Company, Louisville, Kentucky, is of-
fering three booklets which will be of interest for
summer programs: “All You Need Know to Start
Golf” is full of information on golf etiquette,
champions’ records, and the whys and wherefores
0f the game; “The Official Softball Rule Book”
contains the latest revisions in softball rules for
i this season, together with valuable data on the
game itself; and the 1941 edition of the “Famous
Slugger Year Book” contains the batting records
and achievements of the Famous Sluggers of 1940,
with hints on batting and other valuable informa-
tion. This booklet is profusely illustrated.

These publications may be obtained at your
local sporting goods dealer or directly from Hil-
lerich and Bradsby Company. In ordering, send
live cents to cover postage and mailing of “Famous
Slugger Year Book” or “All You Need Know to
Start Golf,” and ten cents for “The Official Soft-
ball Rule Book.”

 

'.

A Juvenile Baseball Program
(Continued from page 104)

all mail pertaining to games. The play-manager is
generally the all-around leader in the group. He
is sent the schedule for the season’s play and is
expected to have his team on the spot ready to
play at the time the schedule specifies.

Enrolling Players

A meeting is held in each school after study
hours in the spring of the year, and each boy who
wishes to play ball fills out a registration card.
These are placed on tile in the Recreation Depart-
ment ofhce, and as the player contracts come in the
registration cards are withdrawn. An attempt is
then made, immediately before the season begins,
to organize teams out of all those remaining in the
file. A big general meeting is held as soon as pos-
sible after school is dismissed for the summer to
explain procedures to the boys and divide the
teams into leagues. A week later play begins, and
two or three games a week are played until just
before school starts, the championship games on
Labor Day being the grand finale.

As umpires the Kenosha Recreation Depart-
ment uses a hand-picked group of youths from
eighteen to twenty-five years of age employed by
the National Youth Administration. They are
usually members of the senior league teams and
are schooled according to Recreation Department

A JUVENILE BASEBALL PROGRAM 125

ae/wmml.
lam/1a..

“ ve depended on Louisville
luer Bats all my

" ' t m e

a - x - a
o ' t I (I  'Sc'rF-J3’J-vrl
I r: '- ’ "

“When some
better bat, l’ll n ing it.”

 
   
 

“.Of course,lwon my ti ham-
plonship with my Slugge "’
 X911!» 2,

 

   
 
  

r: for your FREE copy of
' "FAMOUS SlUGGER YEAR 800K for 19""

or send 5b in slam )5 direct lo Del.

HILLERICH & BRADSBY COMPANY, Inc.

  

(. LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY

 

 

standards before being sent out on games. They
have charge of equipment and are charged with
the responsibility of directing play on their field.
They in turn are responsible to the athletic director
of the Department, who has general jurisdiction
over the operation of the program.

A program such as this need not necessarily be
associated with a recreation department, but any
responsible agency or group of agencies or organi-
zations can profitably combine for this important
activity.

Day by Day on Last: Summer’s

Playgrounds
( Continued from page 86)

are the beautiful dancing and the fairy story plots
which hold the action together. The culmination
of these miniature operas is in the big city-wide
dance pageant held at the public schools stadium,
seating 25,000 people. During the summer of
1940, this pageant was given for the first time in
the evening, because the stadium has been lighted
for evening use.

The following are some of the pageants which
have been staged during the past several years:

126

 

The University of Pittsburgh

SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES

Division of Social Administration

 

Professional education on a graduate level
for the social services, public and private.

 

GENERIC PREPARATION AND

SPECIALIZATIONS IN

CASE WORK
GROUP WORK .
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION WORK

PUBLIC WELFARE ADMINISTRATION
SOCIAL RESEARCH

A limited number of fellowships and scholarships
are available, to be awarded on the basis of
qualification and need.

 

\

For further information apply:
THE OFFICE OF THE DEAN

“Hansel and Gretel,” “Robin Hood,” “Rip Van
Winkle,” “Snow White,” “Hiawatha,” and “Cop-
pelia.”

In addition to glorifying the dance and the
various fairy stories, the city-wide pageant, as
well as the local community pageants, are out-
standing in that they are fully as much community
affairs as they are affairs of the recreation depart-
ment. A considerable amount of the financing,
such as the transportation of the children, is done
entirely by the Playground Mothers’ Circles, Pa-
trons’ Associations, and the Parent-Teachers’ As-
sociations. To an observer of playground pageants
in other cities, it seems evident that the St. Louis
playground pageants reflect very definitely the in-
fluences of the world famous Municipal Operas
held at Forest Park every evening during the
summer months, Sundays included, to a nightly
attendance averaging approximately ten thousand
spectators.

Making the Story Hour ”60"

(Continued from page 70) ‘

As to whether it pays to spend the necessary
time and effort—well, any really successful story-
teller will answer, definitely, that it does.

DANCING ’NEATH THE STARS

Dancing 'Neath the Stars

(Continued from page 98)

Balloon Battles. One type of balloon battle can
be played by giving each couple a blown-up bal-
loon to which is attached a short string. Couples
protect their own balloons but try to destroy the
other ones.

In another kind of balloon battle each girl ties
a balloon to her ankle. The string must be at least
eighteen inches long, and the balloon at least
twelve inches from her foot. With this precaution
there is scarcely a chance that anyone will get hurt.
The object of this battle is the same as the first.

A balloon battle is always hilariOUS, because
before the number is over the girls are usually
dancing on one foot, or couples are madly whirling
round and round trying to protect their balloons.

Refreshments

After dancing beneath the stars all evening,
guests will expect refreshment time to bring cook-
ies and lemonade or some other light and cold
summer repast—‘and it does. In keeping with the
theme the cookies or little cakes might be in the
shape of stars.

And finally, as always, the dance comes to an
end. But long after the orchestra has played its
last note, guests will recall this roof garden party
under the stars. In fact, they will probably re—
member it as one of the most unique dances they
ever attended.

A Gypsy Round-Up

(Continued from page 78)

the fires curling lazily on the summer air, the hum
of insects mingling with the song of birds, threw
a spell on all who entered the camp ground.

The folk dancing was one of the most colorful
events. Large circles of gayly dressed children
danced and sang in true gypsy abandon. Music
was provided by the instruments of the gypsies
and by the voices of the children.

Following the dancing came a treasure hunt the
clues of which had been placed earlier in the day.
The treasure was candy enough for all the little
gypsies in camp. This was the closing event of the
day. The children, tired but happy, turned their
faces homeward, but not without many a back-
Ward glance toward the place Where for a few
short hours their fondest childhood dream had
been realized.

Oh to be a gypsy, if only for a day!

 

?

ii Controlyrl‘D 

 
  

,1

o
. . ‘ . .-
' ‘ . f-f. o
. , . a I I _ . .
. . ,3 i .. .
. I 0"‘15 { .
0
. s o
. ' D 1‘
a - . ,
..
O _ I. ‘
J r
v C a. .
.
‘ . .- l
.- * ‘
,

RY this proven method of controlling dust on play-
grounds, athletic fields and tennis courts —- just
sprinkle the surface with Gulf Sani-Soil-Set, the modern
dust allayer.
Only one application of Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is necessary
to control dust for one season or one year. And it doesn’t
introduce any of the objeCtionable features associated with

 
  

ordinary types of dust control mediums—no odor, and no

i
fore'APPLICATION after APPLICATION stained clothing “Hoots,
“ GULF SANl-SOIL-SET or GULF SANl-SOIL-SET

I

Don‘t let another season pass without getting the bene-
fits of this economical, easily applied dust allayer.

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
5800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet "Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set for Treating Playgrounds.”

ite today for
s booklet for

" plete informa-

Nam e

 

Title

 

 

 

l

|

|

|

l

I Address
L.

128 BETTER TURF FOR PLAYGROUNDS AND PLAYFIELDS

EverWear 

Playground Apparatus
Basketball Backs’rops

Swimming Pool Equipment
Write for Catalogs Today

EVE RWEAR

Manufacturing Company
SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

FREE

Dept. R

 

 

Better Turl for Playgrounds and
Playlields

(Continued from page 107)
and yet one f1nds the home plate in the same spot
from the beginning to the end of the season. By
shifting the bases occasionally the areas injured
by heavy play have a chance to recover before the
grass is entirely destroyed.

If good turf is to be maintained throughout the
year, all sports activities should be kept off it
when the .soil is wet, just as tennis is prohibited
when the courts are wet. Areas with some more
durable surface should be provided to relieve the
turfed areas from play at such times. Often such
areas are provided, and yet it is not uncommon to
find a large number of players tearing up a soft,
wet turf and no one playing on the hard surface.
Such a lack of judgment and foresight on the part
of those in charge works to the disadvantage of
the grass and of the recreation program by robbing
the youngsters of proper enjoyment of the facili-
ties provided for them.

To this criticism those in charge may counter
with the remark that the area was put in turf for
the purpose of play and not for grass. The ques—
tion must be decided of course by the administra-
tors of each playground whether the turf was
provided for play 365 days out of the year (ulti-
mately resulting in no turf) or whether it was

PLAY SAFE

WITH

SAFEBAT

PREVENT ACCIDENTS WITH THIS

RUBBER COVERED
SOFTBALL BAT

Safe . . Durable . . Noiselcss . . Pepular

Write for Information

SAFEBAT COMPANY, Castile, New York

 

 

provided in the interest of giving maximum en-
joyment for recreation purposes during the maxi-
mum number of days in which it can be used.

If it is impossible to pass up an occasional short
period of play on turfed areas when the ground is
wet, the surface will become scarred and puddled.
Then it will usually be found impractical to main-
tain throughout the rest of the year that thick mat
of turf which serves so effectively to attract the
children to healthy outdoor sports, and away from
the streets and alleys.

Posters for Parks and Playgrounds
(Continued from page 108)
Beverly Hills, California, while Robert Everline

is from Reading, Pennsylvania. Both came to
Pratt, they explain loyally, “because it’s the best
school for advertising design in the country.”
Fredi Hatch came to Pratt Institute after two
years of study at Frank Wiggins in California. She
hopes to remain in New York and do spot draw-
ings in advertising after she is graduated. Robert
Everline, a tall serious-looking blond boy who wears
glasses, is uncertain about his future plans, but he
too hopes to stay in New York. He may become
a poster artist.

Between classes, or in their spare time—“What
there is l” the two declare—they play ping-pong
and tennis. Tennis particularly rates a high vote
from Robert Everline. Dancing is another recrea-
tional interest; as Fr'edi says, “All Pratt students
like to dance, I guess.”

In addition, the students use the gymnasium at
Pratt, where there are facilities for basketball,
badminton, and volleyball, and a swimming pool
as well.

These student artists feel that if posters are
made in bright colors and in a simple design, they
have great appeal to children and adults alike. A
colorful poster can play a very effective role in a
campaign or in accomplishing a similar specific end.

Matinees by Children For Children

( C ontinucd from page 93)
their parts with her and tell why they like the

play. After a performance of “Cinderella,” chil-
dren were crowding about the cruel. stepmother to
praise her performance. She turned to the story-
teller and with a look of sudden understanding
said, “I’d hate really to be as mean as that step-
mother!” And the storyteller realized anew that
the values of the matinee were far richer than any

acquisition of stage technique.

I

I
I

MATINEES BY CHILDREN FOR CHILDREN 129

Selecting the Play

To achieve the highest gains and the greatest
enjoyment from the matinees the plays are Care-
fully selected. A vast amount of effort goes into
this research for the right plays, since they are not
easily found. Much of the material available for
children’s dramatic interpretation is lacking in the
fundamentals of a good play. But the searcher is
adequately rewarded when he comes across a play
by such modern writers as Marion Holbrook,
Constance Mackay, Laura Swartz and Marjorie
Barrows. They have given us plays with both
literary quality and good dramatic construction.
The same is true of many plays based on old folk
tales. Our players have most often used the pub-

lished dramatizations of the old stories but have-
‘sometimes made their own adaptations. Scenes

from “Taming of the Shrew,” “Midsummer-
Night’s Dream,” and “Winter’s Tale” have been
very successful. Dramatizations of such children’s

classics as “Little \Vomen” are often on the
program.

Winter Matinees

The summer programs proved to be so worth
while that a similar matinee season was inaugu-
rated to take place during the winter. Almost
every playground had for some years presented
plays in observance of Hallowe’en, Christmas, and
the three February holidays. Many of these have
been repeated at the winter matinees. Certain dif-
ficulties of schedule have been encountered. Janu—
ary proved a difficult month because only Christ-
mas plays were available and no one was in the
mood to see a Christmas play at that time. A story
hour was then scheduled as the exclusive feature
of the January programs. November presents
almost the same problem since the Hallowe’en
plays are out of season and every playground
dramatic group is working toward its Christmas
program. To fulfill a matinee engagement at such
a time may interrupt the regular dramatic program
on, each ground. In such a situation the matinee
would hamper the very thing they were designed
to stimulate.

A substitute for the winter matinee play is
under consideration whereby every playground in
the department would have one special matinee
presented by visiting players. This would be in
lieu of bi-monthly programs at a few centers. A
date could be arranged which would best suit the
activity schedule of the two playgrounds con-
cerned. A few eXperiments have shown this pro-

=ea’ze uIItI gelecfed

MOTION PICTURES

600D PRINTS . . DEPENDABLE SERVICE
SOUND—TB mm.—SILENT

REE---

"WASHINGTON—SHRINE OF AMERICAN
PATRIOTISM"—2 reels
"THIS AMAZING AMERICA"—3 reels in
TECHNICOLOR
"YOUNG AMERICA PAINTS"—I reel—in COLOR
"ON TO JUPITER'.'—2 reeIs
"COME OUT OF THE KlTCHEN"—3 reels
"WE DRIVERS"-—I reeI
AND HUNDREDS OF OTHERS

'0 AT LOW RENTAL o

SHIRLEY TEMPLE ' BING CROSBY .
OUR GANG ' MICKEY McGUIRE COMEDIES
CARTOONS ' FEATURES ' AND
THE BEST IN ADVENTURE PICTURES.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOG.

V»

:.- s {“t  ' r ;',?,--r 
 .  Ills! ft“
«3.4 f ’ ‘ is or

"'5".

MOT10N Pié:!§!}ii BUREAU

new YORK  SAN FRANCISCO
347 MADISON AVE. 19 SO. LAiéALLE ST. 351 TURK 5T.

DALLAS (AUGUST I, Iqel)

 

cedure to be a joy for the visiting players and a
genuine inspiration to the dramatic program of

the playground visited.
Although the winter matinees have not met with

the outstanding and consistent success of the sum-
mer programs, both have provided wonderful
educational and recreational opportunities for the
playground children. Nothing is more real to chil-

MITCHELL

Betterbilt 

 

    
      
 

   
   

  
  

PLAYGROUND i 
EQUIPMENT ; -

Safety in construction and safety in play have
made Mitchell Playground and Swimming Pool
Equipment the choice of careful school and rec- ‘
reational directors. It is built heavier, with dan-
gerous hazards eliminated for extra safety and
affords safe, healthful play. Write for literature.

Mitchell products include F old-O-Leg
Tables, Barn Equipment, and Folding
Stages for Music Groups.

MI'ICIIELL MFG. C0.

3034 w. FOREST HOME Ave. MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN
_ SINCE 1896 —

130 AMBASSADOR TO THE COURT OF ST. JAMES

  

A! Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas
Lawrence. Kansas

school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor cplay-game for boys and girls of

Fills a need in every

all ages . . . May be laye by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . fficial Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating
exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive License :Agreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street at D n it an

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

 

dren than a play, and never do they have a greater
desire to do their best than in its presentation.
Through these matinees the arts function as' a
social situation. The very fact that children want
to act and make properties, talk together, and all
be important in a cooperative adventure, makes
the matinee seasons exceedingly important.
When a child participates in such an activity,
demanding as it does increasing control over his
mind and body, he is inspired to do his very best.
Neither theater nor classroom are these matinees,
yet they represent joyous dramatic entertainment
and the finest educational process in the world.

Stop Money Leaks

“How to stop the leaks and plug the holes
in the Amusement and Recreation Piel ."

Invaluable information for every operator
of Amusement Parks, Pools, Beaches and

Recreation Centers. This book will help
YOU!

Write for FREE copy TODAY
MONEY-METERS, Inc.

Dept. C PROVIDENCE. R. I.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

is St. Louis. MO.

The Popularity of Card Games

(Continued from page 120)
may be, however, the survey does prove conclu-

sively that cards in general are more important
today and more wide-spread than any other type
of social recreation. Very clearly then, if SUCh a
thing as a recreation “folk-culture” exists in this
country, it includes a knowledge of card games
and a liking for them which is spread through
every section and every income level of our

population.

Ambassador to the Court of St. James

(Continued from page 118)
friendly, civilized world of free'peoples in which

Christian virtues and moral values are not spurned
as decadent and outmoded. A world where honest
work is recognized and a man can own himself.
. . . They desire freedom of speech and expres-
sion. They desire freedom to worship God in ac-
cordance with their'own conscience. They desire
freedom from want . . . a world of increasing
hope and enjoyment for the common man. . . .
Lastly, they desire freedom from the fear of
armed aggression.”

John Winant is especially equipped for the task
of reporting the social as well as political and
economic reactions of a nation struggling in the
shadow of a blackout. A life time of interest in
social justice has prepared him for a stewardship
in this new England which must be and is con-
cerned with social welfare, with health, rationing,
labor.

But the new ambassador can see ahead and be-
yond the job he is doing today, for he has said,
“Some day collaboration will have to reach much
farther than the United States and Great Britain.”
It is “only by finding a common basis of world
citizenship” that the world will ever have a last-
ing peace.

Another World War finds John Winant again
in Europe, this time fighting on the diplomatic
front to preserve and extend the social frontiers
of democracy. The social niceties of the Old
London will not concern this diplomat-by-draft.
He will have little use for ceremonies and
formalities.

“To win the war or to build our defense we
must iirst justify our beliefs by strengthening the
fundamental economic, social and civil rights of all
citizens.” This is no polished diplomat speaking,
no smooth-tongued bargainer; this is America’s
N o. I ambassador of human relations.

l
l

1 Baseball Congress '

The American

HE AMERICAN

Baseball Congress
has established offices
at 3622 Zumstein Ave-
nue, Cincinnati, Ohio,
and C. 0. Brown, for
six years executive
vice—president of the
Athletic Institute, will
devote full time to the
affairs of the Congress
in an' expanded pro-
gram which Will in-
clude the extensiOn of
field work to embrace
at least six new or en-
larged state associa-
tions this year; an in-
crease in the number
of issues of the ABC
News, officials news-
paper bulletin of the
Congress; the crea-
tion of a special bul-
letin service to league
and association officials
designed to supple-
ment the News;
greater emphasis on the
promotion within
member associations of
schools for players,
umpires, and scorers;
the establishment of
state or regional play
for teams in the sev-
enteen to nineteen
year old age group;
and a national press
and radio publicity
campaign in behalf of
amateur baseball,

During the past two years the Congress has
been giving increased attention to players too old
for American Legion or junior baseball and not
yet old enough for unlimited age baseball. To
meet this problem, two methods for stimulating
play in this age group are suggested. The first is

THE AMERICAN BASEBALL CONGRESS

m 10? PERFORMANCE. .. mica-writ ...lOWEST cosr . ..

I ‘ \
.  . s 
-   '- as 

- '“ Ftlre Original 2
Rubber-Cdverecl
 All-Weather.
:SOH BAlll

‘ .Official Weight,

-. ' Size, PerformanCe!

   

Voit Official Soft Ball “hits a home"
run in value for‘yau. EineSt-quality
Kapolc center is uniformly “gum
wound" with topvgrade latex-im-
pregnated ,cotton yarn, to which
15‘ vulcanized a tough, scufhprobt,

  
 

virtually a one-piece unit that can-
‘not loosen, slip 0r lose itsshape.
Simulated stitches will not rip or
wear out. ‘Weather~and-water~
proof, perfect for ’dayllor nightr

conditions. Sizes from 9” to l6”.
see your Sporting Goods Dealer’.
, write for new catalog.

  

1600 East 25th Street, los Angeles, Calif.
Branch: 180 N. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill.

'white rubber cover. This makes .‘

play ‘an all surfaces'in all weather i

       

GU Vanuatu-COVERED
SPORTS
E Q U I P M E N T

MFD. BY W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

131

 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
     
       

     
 
  
  

 
 
   
    

   
   

' 0‘5 tasks!

._
. * I i u. '
r \ ‘-..
- z- . - A'
“' \§.:.c-:' -\-.

. 5,5
.\\

 
   
   
 

Ideal For batting practice and
general playground use. Dur-
able rubber cover, white,
weather-and-water-prool.
Keeps its shape. Oliicial 5-oz.
weight.

 
     
   
   
 
   
 
 

 

 voit Rubber-Covered

Sperts Equipment also in-
cludes Enduro, Regulation ,
.'and All Rubber Athletic
Balls, Inflated Playground
Balls, Iennis Balls and other

items.

the establishment in more populous areas of inter—
mediate age teams, sponsored by senior teams, and
playing preliminary games to the senior games.
The other, in less populous areas where there is
difficulty in mustering enough boys in this age

(Continued on page 134)

132

SW’INGING IN THE PARK

A
5 MONTHS’
TRIAL
0FFEB

. . . your opportunity

your name, address, and a dollar bill
are all you need to receive one of the
most stimulating and helpful school
magazines. 5 months’ trial offer of the

Junior Arts and Activities
magazine for only

$1.00

. . . our opportunity

to prove to you the reason teachers
are turning to this new type of crea-
tive schoolwork and methods. Un-
equalled in the amount of usable proj-
ect material in each issue. If not en-
tirely satisfied with first copy—your
money will be refunded. Mail today,
really to become acquainted with one
and receive the next five issues of

Junior Arts & Activities

DEPT. R

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

 

Swinging in the Park

HE FRONTISPIECE of this issue on page 66,

showing outdoor amusements in Central Park,
New York City, seventy years ago, was made
from a woodcut which appeared in the Supple-
ment of Harper’s Weekly for July 8, 1871. The
following description accompanied the woodcut:
“Mr. Lumley’s tine drawing requires no word of
explanation. It is an an out-door summer idyl,
which every boy and girl among our readers will
understand. It has, however, an unmistakable
cityair. Those trim swings are rarely seen in the
country, where their place is supplied by stout ropes
swung over a sturdy branch, with boards notched
at each end for seats. We fear, too, that country
little folk would rather disdain the artificial see-
saw, on which, a few inches above the ground, the
well-dressed city lad balances with unsteady legs.
What would he say to a rough plank balanced
over a six-rail fence, the ends swinging ten feet
into the air, and nothing but friction to keep it
from slipping? The city Park contrivance is, of
course, a great deal the nicer of the two, and not
half so apt to tear the clothes; but, on the whole,

we fancy there’s more fun in the country make-
shifts.”

Camp Fire Girls Travel the Treasure

Trails of America

(Continued from page 102)
ers’ Association the Camp Fire Girls in Sherborn,
Massachusetts, presented an original play, which
began with a group of girls expressing their dis-
content with the lack of any exciting leisure-time
activities. Then the “Treasure Trails” theme was
brought in. Soon each girl busied herself with some
creative activity, painting, singing, soap carving, or
dancing. And as the play closed the girls were all
enthusiastic, appreciating the things about them
and sharing the enjoyment of creating new things
themselves.

This play, written and produced by the girls
themselves, seems to give clear expression to the
need for creative activities, a need the young peo-
ple understand quite well. And as their play
shows, projects such as “Treasure Trails,” in
which the girls learn by doing, by seeing, by hear-
ing, and by employing their imaginations, are en-
thusiastically received, both by the girls and by
their parents, for all of them enjoy being drawn
more closely into the community bond.

MAGAZINES AND PAJMPHLETS 133

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of a

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

     

MAGAZINES

The Camping Magazine, February 1941

“The Recovery of Joy Through Camping” by Mar-
garet J. Johnston

“Providing Camps for Chicago’s 800,000 Children”
by Milford E. Zinser

“Camp Ceramics Take the Nature Trail” by The
Staff, The Associate Arts Studio Camp

“Self-Hardening Clays” 'by Elsie Shelley

Camping World, February 1941
“The Riding Department and Its Place in Camp” by
Gertrude V. A. Heyl
“Notes on Guests Houses” by Zenon Raabe _
“Older Camper Activities: Fencing, Baton Twirling,
Flag Twirling” by Ray W. Dutcher
“Purposeful Hiking” by Julius Capowski

Children’s Institutions, February 1941
“Education in Recreation” by Frank Peer Beal. How
many popular games have been reconstructed to
permit use in institutions at low cost

Children’s Institutions, March 1941
“The Influence of the Arts on the Lives of Handi-
capped Children” by Georgiana S. Mendenhall

Journal of Physical Education, March-April 1941
“Physical ‘Co-Rec’ Programs” by Douglas O’Brien

Parents’ llIagazine, March 1941
"Minneapolis Has a Youth Center” by Harold S.
Kahm ‘

Parks and Recreation, February 1941
“Progress of Park, Parkway and Recreational Area
Planning” by Charles G. Sauers
“Our Leisure Time” by C. P. Keyser. Talk before
Convention of Oregon State Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation

' Public Alauagement, March 1941
“Use of Movies in Reporting to Citizens” by David
G. Rowlands

. Safety Education, March 1941
“Planning for Safe Play” by Eugenia Schor

Scholastic Coach, February 1941
“Girls’ Play Days in Connecticut” by Mildred Shapiro
“Indoor Tether-"Ball Games” by Harry F. Wild

Scholastic Coach, March 1941
“Floodlighting the Softball Field” by Harry Hays
“Softball Pitching"

Survey Midmonthly, March 1941
“For Soldiers Off Duty” ‘by Gertrude Springer

“Through the Training Camp Country” by Russell
H. Kurtz

PAM PHLETS

Cascade Mountains Study
Washington State Planning Council, Olympia, Wash.

Come and Get It!
General Foods, Camp Service Department, 250 Park
Ave., New York. Cookery for the large camp

How to Stop the Leaks and Plug the Holes in the Amuse-
ment and Recreation Field by M. L. Grant
Money-Meters, Inc., Providence, R. I.

 

Sponr's EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of
Equipment for all Sports

«'13 ‘u

' THE'P. GOLDSMITH SONS, lnc.

JOHN AND FlNDlAY $15., CiNClNNAil, OHIO

A

Making Their Own Chinese Fiddles

(Continued on page 76)
stick, a jig—sawed body top, with a pair of dragons
adorning the end. The instrument is a monochord
played with a violin bow of horsehair which can
also be made by the amateur musician. It is good
for slow music. The fingering can be done with-
out horizontal note marks.

Usually for recreation projects the fiddle is
made for utility alone, with unadorned cigar box
body and broomstick neck. By adding the scrolls
and painting on them Chinese designs in vivid
Chinese colors, a decided oriental atmosphere is
added.

‘ The top of the body has a background of bril-
liant Chinese red with figures in yellow, blue,
green, black, and White. The under parts are
Chinese green. The top of the long neck is blue.
The dragon is varicolored. Tempera water colors
are first applied to the wood and clear shellac is
blown on the color through an atomizer to fix it.
Then the surface is rubbed down with steel wool.
A clear lacquer may now be .brushed on without
fear of running.

134 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

The Operation of Swimming Pools and Bathing Beaches.

Bulletin No. 27
Division of Sanitation, New York State Department

of Health, Albany, N. Y., price $.30

Refrence List of Major Winter Sports Areas Located in
National Forests and Administered by the_ Forest

Service .
Division of Information and Education, Forest Ser-

vice, Washington, D. C.

What It Takes to Illake Good in College by Samuel L.
Hamilton. Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 53
Public Affairs Committee, Inc., 30 Rockefeller Plaza,
New York, price $.10

Work Camps for High School Youth
American Youth Commission, American Council on
Education, 744 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C.,

price $.25
REPORTS

Report on Second Annual Swimming Pool Conference
School of Physical Education, University of Illinois

The 21st Minnekiker Yearbook 1940
Minneapolis Municipal Hiking Club, Minneapolis,
Minn.

Reports of: Board of Child Welfare, New York; Com-
munity Service in the City of New York; Girl Scouts,

Inc.; Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court, Union

County, Elizabeth, N. J.; New York City Housing
Authority

Reports of: Department of Parks, Recreation and Avia-
tion, Beaumont, Texas; Board of Recreation Commis-
sioners, Bloomfield, N. J.; Recreation Committee,
Crafton, Pa.; Recreation Department, Dearborn, Mich.;
Board of Recreation Commissioners, East Orange, N. J. ;
Public Recreation Board, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Rec-
reation Department, Houston, Texas; Board of Recre-
ation Commissioners, Livingston, N. J.; Recreation

Commission, Long Beach, Ca1.; Department of Public
Welfare, Louisville, Ky.

The American Baseball Congress
(Continued from page 131)
group to make up teams, is the requirement of
not fewer than three players under twenty on each
unlimited age team.
The Congress will soon .announce a special
series of bulletins on coaching, training of officials,

the financing and operating of local leagues, and
similar subjects.

A Community Playground Carnival
(Continued from page 100)

Close supervision is necessary on the part of
staff members to see that prizes are not too hard
to get nor won too easily. One person cannot
cover all booths at the beginning of the festivities,
so it is important for each playground leader to
know exactly what articles cost and how many
tickets must be taken in to at least equal the outlay
at each concession that he has charge of. If this
is not done, enough can be lost in the first half

hour to make the financial success of the venture
doubtful.

There is tremendous excitement connected with

the carnival in planning, executing, keeping the

fun at a high peak, and even counting the nickels

and pennies which the cashier has taken in.

If you haven’t had a carnival, try one this
summer!

It’s Being Done inrNature' Recreation
(Continued from page 116)

ing, readable book about man’s fight against epi-

demic diseases.

Museum. “Exhibition Techniques—A Sum-
mary of Exhibition Practice.” New York Mu-
seum of Science and Industry, I 31 pp. $2.00. In-
cludes outstanding methods of latest world’s fairs.

“Nature News,” is a new “live” fOUr page
mimeographed pamphlet published monthly by the
Nature Education Staff of the Bureau of Parks,
Pittsburgh. The staff includes W. L. Black, Frick
Park;  R. Steck, Schenley Park; and Dr. P. C.
\Nalker, Riverview Park. The February number
announced hikes and lectures and proposed such
projects as listing local winter bird foods, feeding
native wild animals, and a meeting of amateur
astronomers and archaeologists to interpret the

rings of tree sections being collected by the Bureau
of Parks.

Nature Stories. “This Amazing Planet,” by
Roy Chapman Andrews. G. P. Putnam and Sons,
New York, 231 pp. $2.00. The discoverer of
dinosaur eggs in the Gobi Desert can make a New
England farm equally interesting. Fascinating
essays from Singing Mice to the Men of To-
morrow. '

Photographic Geology. Anyone undertaking .
such an adventure with its absorbing complexities
should consult a series of bulletins 0f the Buffalo
Museum of Science by Frederick HOUghtOI‘l who
describes his pilgrimages as making “a photo-
graphic swathe.”

, Physics. “What Makes the Wheels Go Round,”
by Edward G. Huey. Reynal and Hitchcock, New
York City, 175 pp. $2.50. A welcome conversa-

tional book for inquisitive Johnny or his sister of
pre-teen age.

“Picnic Areas,” technical publication by Laurie
D. Co'x. State College of Forestry, Syracuse, New
York. $.85; New material, profusely illustrated.
(See book review in April issue of RECREATION.)

   

Construction of Tennis Courts

By Lavern A. Miller. Bulletin NO. 42. The Athletic
Institute, 209 South State Street, Chicago, Illinois.
$.30.

HERE IS A STATEMENT in which such problems are dis-
cussed as reasons for differences in courts, the selec-
tion Of the right type of surfacing, and details of con-
struction and of lighting. r

Our National Resources—Facts and

Problems

National Resources Planning Board. Obtainable from
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. $.10.

N INTERESTING and important report has been issued
A by the National Resources Planning Board under the
title, Our National Resources—Facts and Problems. It
contains information on the country’s economic activity,
on production, transportation, communication, energy,
land and land products, recreation and wildlife, health,
education, libraries, public museums and public works—
subjects which are Of vital interest to all citizens. Recre-
ation workers will be interested in securing a c0py of
this report.

Neighborhood Activities in Country

Communities ,

By Alfred G. Arvold. ‘Extension Service, North Dakota
Agricultural College, Fargo. $.10.

PROFESSOR ARVOLD, founder of the nationally known
Little Country Theater at the North Dakota Agricul-
tural College, has made another important contribution
to rural life in the preparation Of this 80-page booklet.
Both practical and inspirational in its scope, the book
deals with the many activities which make for the en-
richment of life in rural districts and small communities.

Games, play days, village fairs and exhibits, music,
social activities, the celebration of special days, picnics,
neighborhood programs, and neighborhood clubs are all
here. As to be expected, a large section of the booklet is
devoted to drama, and very practical suggestions are given
for plays, festivals, and pageants. As for facilities, Pro-
fesssor Arvold tells how tO plan a village hall which will
house dramatics and other community activities.

NO worker in a rural district should be without this

booklet. Recreation workers in cities tOO will find it
helpful.

Mother Goose Dances

By Edith De Nancrede and Gertrude Madeira Smith.
H. T. FitzSimons Company, Chicago, Illinois. $2.00.
HERE ARE TWENTY-FOUR DANCES in this book arranged
in order, "beginning with the simplest, and they have
been listed according to their suitability for certain ages.
Music is given for each dance along with the directions.
The importance Of dramatic expression is emphasized.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Recreation for Four-H Clubs
and Other Groups

Compiled by R. Bruce Tom. Bulletin ‘210. Agricultural

$Fxtension Service, Ohio State University, Columbus.
.10.

HOUGH DESIGNED primarily for Four-H Clubs and

similar groups, this fifty page booklet has much to
offer recreation workers. It contains directions for per-
sonal or group combat games, relays, tag games, ball
games, group and team games, puzzles for pleasure,
mixers, pencil and paper games, and nature games. One
Of the most practical and suggestive sections in the book-
let is that dealing with homemade games Of skill. All
recreation workers will find it helpful tO have this book
in their library.

Practical Pottery For Craftsmen

and Students

By R. Horace 'Jenkins, MS. The Bruce Publishing
Company, Milwaukee. $2.75.

GUIDE TO EVERY PHASE of pottery, from the selection of
proper equipment and material to the easy grasp of

the basic processes, this book is an outgrowth of the
author’s experience of over twenty, years. So clearly pre-
sented is the material that it makes possible self-instruc-
tion for the craftsman of little experience, while the

skilled worker will find in it many helpful hints and
ideas. Many illustrations are included.

IOI Things To Do in Spare Time

A Practical Handbook for the Home with a Special Sec-
tion on War Time Activities. By Lillie B. and Arthur
 0(I)-Iorth. J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia.

ANY TYPES OF RECREATION have their place in this as-
sembling of things to do, both indoors and out.
There are suggestions for making table and floor games,
toys, leather work, rugs, and knitted articles. And, for
the practical-minded, there is information on ways in
which the garden may be made tO contribute to the
kitchen budget. A special section on First Aid has been
included. More than a casual pastime book, this volume

shows how the intelligent employment of spare time may
be made to enrich daily life.

Industrial Recreation-Its Development

and Present Status

By Leonard J. Diehl and Floyd R. Eastwood. Purdue
University, Lafayette, Indiana. $.50.

THIS MONOGRAPH presents the results of a study for
which funds were made available through a grant es-
tablished under the Purdue Research Foundation. It has
been prepared for leaders responsible for industrial rec-
reation. It will be helpful tO companies planning the
initiation of a new program of recreation for their

135

136 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

employees, and it will also provide a standard for the
evaluation of a previously established-program. .Recrea-
tion workers will find it exceedingly interesting in plan-

ning their total program. .
The information for the study was secured from thirty

case studies and from 609 questionnaires received from
companies in thirty-eight states. The first part of the
report presents an historical review of industrial recrea-
tion. This is followed by a discussion Of the extent of
industrial recreation and the range of administrative
procedures. Other subjects discussed include administra-
tion from the point of view Of finance, medical and in-
surance procedures, and leadership and programs, facili-
ties and equipment. The final chapter is concerned With
an evaluation Of recreational activities and the contribu-
tion they have to make to employees and employers.

Annual Reports and How to Improve Them.

Edited by Mary Swain Routzahn. Social Work Pub-
licity Council, 130 East 22nd Street, New York. $.50.

Annual reports are always a problem! But you won’t
dread the next one so much if you profit by the sugges-
tions Offered in this booklet. In it, in addition to some
practical general suggestions, six “case histories” have
been selected for description and comment. These six
reports—and the 1940 report of the National Recreation
Association is one Of them—have been selected because of
excellence along certain lines.

If writing an annual report is one of the most difficult
things you do, by all means secure this booklet! ~

Social Work Year Book 1941.

Edited by Russell H. Kurtz. Russell Sage Founda-
tion, New York. $3.25.

This is the sixth issue of the Social l/Vork Year Book—
the encyclopedia of organized activities in social work
and allied fields—which has come to the invaluable as a
source book. There are two major sections. Part One
consists of a group of eighty-three signed articles pre-
pared by authorities on the topics discussed. Part Two
is a directory Of national and state agencies, both gov-
ernmental and voluntary, whose programs are integral
with or related to the subject matter of Part 'One. The
directory is in four sections: National Agencies—Public;
National Agencies— Private; State Agencies—Public;
and State Agencies—Private.

Municipal Index and Atlas 1940-41.

American City Magazine Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York. $5.00

The sixteenth annual edition of the Municipal Index
and Atlas offers in its more than 600 pages directories
Of municipal Ofiicials and material on municipal services
of all kinds, including parks, playgrounds, and swimming
pools.

Arts and Crafts with Inexpensive Materials.

Girl Scout National Equipment Service, 14 \Vest
49th Street, New York. $.50.

This book is written to prove that “high standards and
low budgets can be kept on speaking terms.” Very often
groups are confronted with the problem of planning arts
and craft activities with little or no money for the pur-
chase of supplies and equipment. The new yellow cov-
ered arts and crafts book includes valuable informatiOn
on how to make many different looms for weaving and
how to weave, how to make primitive kilns for firing
pottery and how to make pottery, how to select and cure
reeds and rushes for baskets and chair seats, the making
of candles and vegetable dyes.

The practical material offered and the fact that the
arts and crafts projects described are presented attrac-
tively and simply, with no sacrifice to quality, will make
this booklet of great value to recreation workers.

Boxing in Education.

By Edwin L. Haislet, Ed. D. Burgess Publishing
Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota. $2.25.

This book is an outgrowth of fourteen years of close
association with boxing. In preparing it three objectives
have been kept in mind: the furnishing Of information
which would catalogue boxing as an educational prO-
cedure; the supplying Of detail-ed instruction and explana-
tion on the actual techniques of boxing; and, finally, the
presentation Of a method for the teaching of boxing with
a' series of specific lesson plans. .

Democracy and Education in the Current Crises.

Bureau of Publications, Teachers College, Columbia
University, 525 West 120th Street, New York. Sin-
gle copies free; in quantities, $1.80 per 100.

The Faculty of Teachers College, Columbia University,
has issued a manifesto, Democracy and Education. in the
C urrcnt Crisis, which has been subscribed 'by more than a
hundred members of the faculty. It stresses the gravity
Of the economic situation and its threat to America, the
assets Of our nation and the meaning of democracy, and
offers a Creed Of Democracy containing sixty points.

Herb’s Blue Bonnet Calls.

Collected by H. F. Greggerson, Jr. Herb Gregger-
son, Box 3061, Station A, El Paso, Texas. $1.00
postpaid.

A collection of more than fifty different square dance
calls with instructions for the dances are to be found in
this booklet. The calls were collected with the help of
many callers and old timers of Texas and New Mexico,
and the book contains pages of western “patter.” There
is a glossary of terms.

 

Officers and Directors Of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, I}. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, 1”.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. L, N. V.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFnTHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORHAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, linl.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. 1.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIREN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIOHUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington. D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURo, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

