In Defense of Gossip

Particularly in Defense Time

"EISURE—TIME interests more profitable and
more satisfying than gossip.”!!

Who said gossip is not satisfying? Who has had a baby? Who has died? Who
has married? Who walked out with Jane last night? What is a newspaper but a
dignilied gossip sheet? There is gossip and gossip,—kindly as well as cruel.

After all, gossip will end only when we are no longer interested in those about
us. “My Day,” “Your Day,” “His Day,” may seem trivial, but it is' through the
trivial that the important is expressed.

Don’t scorn gossip. Don’t be so snootily superior to the ordinary events of life.
A pretty girl is after all a pretty girl and not necessarily any harm to anyone. A new
hat is often very important. The baby has a new tooth. The baby got his big toe in
his mouth for the first time. Later he pulled himself up on his feet. A new car is an
event. Why be crabby and superior about it all? .

A substitute for the backyard clothesline gossip is fairly important. That’s one
function of the neighborhood recreation center. It is not good—for some people—-
to suppress small talk. That’s all there is likely to come forth. And they’ll choke if
they don’t talk. And the learned psychologist will write down “suppressed desire”—
only I expect there is a longer word now for it.

By all means let there be "neighborhood and city service" as recreation—let there
be highbrow philosophical and literary discussion (some of it will bring out much the
same principles as are thrown in free in neighborhood gossip)—let there be artistic
creation giving expression to noble and uplifting ideas, but leave a place also for just

walking and swimming and idling, and grant a special dispensation to the poor ordinary

folk who like each other and like to think about each other and just stand or sit and
l gossip.
! If you are very highbrow and think gossip is a very poor form of recreation, go
out and get yourself a dog, a good intelligent dog; follow the dog, and talk to 'the
' people who talk to you and to your dog, and you will be surprised how much you
‘ Will loosen up_ and how human you will become and what pleasure you will find in

the ordinary garden variety of recreation known as gossip—about people you love._

 

JULY I94I

h

221

1-72 ‘to h“ R. I  Courtesy Junior League Magazine
BOY WITH THE GREEN THUMB

222

 

Fiesta—The South American Way

Hagame usted e1 favor,

Senorita y Senor,

De venir a nuestra fiesta!

\Ve are trying to say,

The South American way,

\Von’t you come to our gala fiesta?

HIS INVITATION to a party in “the South

American way” might appear on a square of

brown wrapping paper torn with ragged edges.
A sketch of some bright pottery or a plump burro
might be placed in the corner above the verse, or
some confetti pasted around it.

Another suggestion for an invitation is the word
“Fiesta!” lettered in red paint on a square of
straw matting, with the name of the host, the time
and place of the party given below. The matting
might be fitted into a red envelope made of con—
struction paper.

Fiesta Decorations

The main emphasis of the fiesta is color, for
South Americans love it and use it lavishly. Fiesta
colors are red, yellow, green, orange, and blue.

If the party is held outside, string paper lan-
terns about and twine Christmas tree lights around
trees and shrubs. One tree might boast a big yel—
low moon—a bulb inside a dish pan covered with
yellow cheesecloth or cellophane.

For an indoor fiesta, travel pictures mounted on
red and blue construction paper, maps, festoons of
crepe paper, and bunches of gay balloons will
comprise the essentials. Perhaps you will be able
to secure small South American flags from flag
manufacturers. Cover the lights with yellow cel—
lophane for a mellow South American moon.

Round, sausage, serpen—
tine, and oval balloons will

MARION (3. KRON

National Recreation
Association

an exotic plant. A fiesta
rope can be made of
several pepper and milk—
weed pods, gourds, and
pine cones, painted or
dipped in fiesta colors. Run raffia through holes
drilled in the tops of the gourds and tie them to a
piece of twine twenty or more inches in length.
Tie the cones and pods in clusters with raffia and
attach them to the rope with the gourds. Loop
the twine to hang the fiesta rope in the party room.

See the section on "Refrescos” for suggestions
on decorating the refreshment table or tables.

 

South American Music

A background of Latin American music is
almost essential, for song is such an important
part of life in southern latitudes that it could not
well be omitted from the fiesta. In Singing
America a collection of more than 120 folk songs
published by the National Recreation Association
at $.25 each—will be found many selections that
can be used in the entertainment or in group sing—
ing, if guests wish to try their voices on real South
American melodies.

 

Fiesta Favors and Place Cards

Visit the South American jungles for the party

favors. Gay parrots may
be made of peanuts with

 

combine into tropical fruit
and plants. To make a
cluster of tropical fruit, tie
balloons of various shapes
to a string and suspend
the cluster in a corner of
the room. Balloons tied to
a stick and embedded in a
decorated pail of sand with
green cardboard leaves
about the base will produce

An Album. Folk Songs of the Americas, con-
sisting of four records with twenty-three songs
from Singing America with an explanatory
folder is available at $2.50. The individual
records from this Album which contain songs

from South America are: Victor Record No.
2728l —"Vidalita" (Argentina), "Flowering

River" (Chile). Victor Record No. 27280—
"Santo San Juanito" (Ecuador)I "From Yon
Mountain Verdant'l (Peru), "Tutu Marambé"
(Brazil). Each record costs $.50. Both
song books and records are available from
the National Recreation Association.

long tails of red, green,
and blue raffia or tissue
paper. Choose peanuts with
noticeable “beaks” or make
beaks of colored construc-
tion paper. Cardboard
standards pasted on a place
card will support the parrot.
A length of wire piercing

. the top of one standard,

the parrot, and the other

223

224 FIESTA—THE SOUTH AMERICAN I'VAY

standard provides a perch for the parrot. Bend
the wire down on the outside of the standards.

At the Fiesta

Upon arriving at the fiesta, each man receives a
gaucho hat complete with chin strap; each girl, a
real or paper flower to tuck in her hair. Then
seiior and seiiorita enter the gaily decorated party
room to the accompaniment of South American
music played on a concealed phonograph. They
find previous arrivals playing games, the real
South American variety.

Pre-Party Games

Bola. In South America “tenpins” is played
with only three pins. The center one counts twelve
if a player knocks it down and the others six each.

Quoits. This game is another popular pastime
in South America, so it might well be used at this
party.

The Prop and the Money. This game is played
outdoors and indoors in South America, but there
pennies are used instead of counters.

Draw a ring with a diameter of about a yard on
the floor. Place a rubber counter on top of a
section of bamboo twelve to eighteen inches long,
and set it up in the center of the circle. The
players receive ten similar rubber counters apiece
and take turns in trying to knock over the stick
and the counter on it. If the counter on the stick
falls within the ring, the player loses the one he
threw. If it falls outside the ring, he may take it
and all other counters previously played and not
collected. The game continues with another
counter on the bamboo pole.

Palomitas. Any number of couples, standing
opposite one another, play this game. Each player
receives five marbles. The first person places his
heels together, pointing his toes outward. The
second player places a marble between the feet of
player number one. Standing erect, the first per-
son then tries to hit the marble by throwing or
dropping one of his own. He claims the marble
if he succeeds. Otherwise he forfeits both.

Active Games

Passing the Rattle. The rattle used in this game
is a baking powder can half full of pebbles and
sealed with adhesive tape. It might be painted in
fiesta colors.

Number the players. Those with even numbers
form a line facing the odd numbers. Number I

faces Number 2, 3 faces 4, and so on down th
line.

The rattle is to be passed in this order: Num
her I hands it to Number 2 (from the first “odd'
across to the first “even”) ; Number 2 passes it t
the person at his right, Number 4. Number
hands the rattle back to the odds—to Number 3
the player opposite him. Number 3 passes it to 5,
the person at his left, who hands it back to the
evens—to Number 6. Thus it continues.

One person, blindfolded, acts as the “drummer.”l
He has a tin pan drum and sticks to beat upon it‘
When he starts to beat on the drum, passing be-
gins; as long as the drum beats continue, the rat-
tle makes its rounds. Possession of the rattle when'
the drum stops scores for the opposite line. Im-.
proper passing, called by, the leader, scores in the
same manner. The side with the highest score
within a given period is the winner.

Cantankerous Cattle. As the South American
counterpart of our western cowboy is the gaucho,
in this game everyone has a chance to demonstrate
his ability as an Argentine cowboy. Contestants
form in lines, and the first player in each receives
a horse—a broomstick with a cardboard horse’s
head on one end. Next he is given an empty tin
can and a stick.

He learns that the cattle are to be rounded up,
and that consequently he is to bring a steer—the
tin can—safely to the hacienda. On the signal,
then, the first players in each line mount their
“caballos” and drive the cattle (by pushing the
can with a stick) up to a designated goal and back«
again. The second ones in line repeat the pro-:
cedure. The first team in which all members have I
successfully ridden to the hacienda with their steer
is the winner.

  
   
    
 
   
  
  

Balloon Juggling. Players remain in their lines.
The first player in each receives a gaily decorated
glass tumbler and an infiated balloon. On the
signal he balances the balloon on the open end of
the glass and walks with it up to and around a
designated goal.

He may not touch the balloon after placing it in
position. If it falls, he must stOp and replace it
before continuing. When he returns to his team,
he gives the balloon and glass to the second one in
line, who repeats' the procedure.

The game may be varied by havinga representa-
tive from each team as players. They race Up t
the designated goal and the first one to reach it
wins for his team.

FIESTA——THE SOUTH AMERICAN WAY 225

Sombrero Wheel. The players, divided into a
number of teams as above, arrange themselves in
lines radiating from a hub like the spokes of a
wheel. (Several wheels may be formed if the
number of guests is very large.) The teams sit or
stand facing away from_ the hub, and the head
I player in each file receives a sombrero.

At the signal the sombrero is passed back over
the heads of the players to the end of the line
(the hub). The last person puts it on his head
(in place of his gaucho hat) and runs about the
outside of the circle to his right, counterclockwise.
When. he reaches his line once more, he stands or
sits before the head player and starts the hat down
the line again. The wheel will get larger and larger
as those at the hub move to the outer edge of the
circle in front of their respective lines. This relay
is hard on sombreros, so they might be made from
heavy wrapping paper.

The Keeper of the Mission Bell. A bell with

_ clapper or tongue large enough to be held with the
' fingers is the only property needed for this game.
The players stand in a circle, hands behind their
backs, with one player in possession of the bell.
The person who is keeper of the bell stands in
the center of the circle.

To signal the start of the game the bell keeper
closes his eyes and begins to count very slowly to
ten. On the count of one, the player with the bell
rings it, takes the tongue between his fingers (to
prevent the bell from ringing), and passes it be
hind his back to left or right. When the bell
keeper reaches ten, the passing stops, and
the bell keeper opens his eyes. He has two
chances in which to name the player then in
possession of the bell. If he guesses cor-
rectly, that player becomes the bell keeper
and the game continues.

South American Spelling Bee.
Words of various degree of
difficulty are the basis of any
spelling bee, but those in a
spelling bee based on South
America naturally have a some-

Gaily colored parrots may be
effectively featured on place
cards and used as decorations

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  

what unfamiliar ring. For this reason the pro-
cedure must be slightly different.

Divide the group into two teams, and have
players from each spell alternately. The team
scores one point for a correctly spelled word, and
two extra points if any member of the team can
define it. If a player misspells a word, he is not
eliminated, and his team still has first chance on
the definition, even if the word is spelled correctly
by one on the opposite team. If a team misses the
definition, the other side may try it.

In the case of cities it is sufficient “definition”
to name the country in which they are located.
The decision on accuracy of definitions is made
by the leader. Below are some words which might
be used. '

Alpaca—member of the camel family domesticated for its
fine wool

Cacao—tropical tree bearing beans used for cocoa and
chocolate

Coca—shrub from which cocaine is extracted

Gaucho—Argentine cowboy

Hacienda—ranch

Llama—member of camel family domesticated as beast of
burden

Mestizo—person of mixed European and Indian blood

Ollo—jar

Pampas—vast treeless plains in Argentina

Patio—center outdoor courtyard

Peon—peasant laborer

Poncho—“blanket-overcoat” of the natives; an oblong
piece of cloth with a slit in the center to fit over
the head

Scrape—blanket

Verba mate—“Paraguay tea” brewed from holly branches

Bogata—city in Columbia

Buenos Aires—in Argentina

Cayenne—in French Guiana

La Paz—Brazil

Montevideo—Uruguay

Quito—Ecuador

Rio de Janeiro—Brazil

Santiago—Chile

Valparaiso—Chile

Comedia o Tragedia? Whether
they like “comedy or tragedy” guests
now have a chance to tell some tall
tales of South America. Cut out
words from magazine titles or
newspaper headlines. Jumble
them together and place in a
bag. Each player then draws
out three different words. He
is instructed to make up a
story about South America
within a given time limit, using

226 FIESTA—THE SOUTH AMERICAN WAY

those words to form the plot. The individual story
is to be long, short, funny, or serious.

As a variation, write sentences to be distributed
one to each player and used as a beginning or
concluding sentence of a story. ' Players might
even draw two sentences, if desired—one for the
beginning, the other for the ending, as ‘they choose.

Some possibilities are:

1. The beautiful sei’lorita leaned from the window:
“Hasta mai’lana (until tomorrow),” she said.

2. And then I entered the Inca temple.
3. The gaucho galloped away into the night.

4. “Life is like that, sei’lor,” he said, as he shrugged and
closed the heavy door in my face.

5. It was only then that he realized she had not been
speaking Spanish.

How's Your Geography? Players sit around a
table upon which is a bowl of anagram letters.
The leader picks out a letter, announces it to the
players, and places it upon the table. The first
player who calls out a region, country, city, or
river in South America beginning with that letter
takes it. The player with the most letters at.the
end of the time period is the winner. This game
may be played in teams with the letters won by
individuals adding to the common score.

Pencil and Paper Games

Hable Usted La Verdad! “Speak the truth”—if
you know itl—is the injunction of the leader to
players in this true-false game. Even if they didn’t
know much about South America when they came,
they will when they have heard these facts and
figures. Distribute pencils and paper, and have
guests decide whether the statements below are
true or false.

1. The gigantic bronze statue “Christ of the Andes”
stands in a mountain pass between Chile and Argen-
tina, signifying peace between those countries. True.
(It was erected in 1904 on the boundary above the
tunnel of the transandean railway, commemorating the
peaceful settlement of a fifty-five year old boundary
dispute between the two countries.)

2. The ancient Inca Empire was located in the Brazilian
jungles. False.
(Its capital city was in the Cuzco valley in.Peru,
where there stand the remains of splendid temples,
fortifications, and irrigation works.)

3. The lasso——-lariat—was used by the natives of South
America and Mexico long before the first white man
arrived. True.

4. Spanish is the language of every country in South
America except Brazil where Portuguese is spoken.
True.

   
   
 
   
   
  
  
    
  
   
    
    
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
  
 

5. The mainland of South America was discovered by
Columbus, who in 1498 touched at the mouth of the
Orinanco. True.

6.. The Andes are the highest mountain mass on th
globe. False. (The Himalayas are higher.)

7. Although the Southern Cross is a constellation visibl
Only in southern latitudes, the North Star is used b
mariners above and below the equator. False.

(The Southern Cross is visible only in southern lati
tudes, but the North Star cannot be seen below th
equator.)

8. Ecuador, Spanish for equator, is the only equatoria
region permanently habitable by white men. True.
(Ecuador is located high in the Andes, and its grea
altitude gives it a climate of perpetual spring.)

9. A large percentage of the world’s Panama hats ar
made in Ecuador. True.

10. Chile is similar in shape to Lower California, an
the length of its coastline is comparable to that 0
Lower California and the state of California. Fals
(Placed on a scale map Chile would stretch from th

top of Lower California to the St. Elias region 0
Alaska.)

11. The Galapagos Islands, lying on the equator an
owned by Ecuador, are the home of a giant tortois
that can carry several men on its back. True.

12. Brazil, the enormous republic which occupies nearl
one-half of all South America, is nearly as large a
all Europe and larger than the United States prope
True. (The area of Brazil is about 3,292,000 squar

miles.)

See Compton’s Encyclopedia, the source of this infor
mation, for further reference.

South America in Outline. At some time durin
the fiesta, the guests should have an opportunit
to learn exactly where they are spending the ev
ning. Display a large map of South America f
a given period of time. Then ask guests to drax ‘
its outline from memory and put the countries i
their proper places. They will be surprised t
learn how much they do not know about countrie
and boundaries.

The Luxury of Ice. The tinkle of ice in a gla
means much more to the inhabitant of a tropic1l
country than to one who lives in northern lati
tudes, for ice is almost a luxury in many tropical
regions. So have the pseudo—South Americans zit

1!

this party cool off luxuriously with this “icy-
game.

Responding to the statements below, player's
write down words ending in the sound “ice.”

1. Virtue abhors it. (vice)

2. Much in few words. (concise)

3. The Chinese know it well. (rice)
4. It happens three times. (thrice)

FIESTA—THE SOUTH AMERICAN WAY

5. It is easier to give than to receive. (advice)
6. It repeats itself. (twice)‘

7. It means “to cut.” (slice)

8. It lures you on. (entice)

9. It is fixed by the merchant. (price)

10. It adds that certain something. (spice)

Formidable Ants. In southern Asia, central
Africa and South America there is a ferocious
species of Flesh eating ants that hunt in long col-
umns of millions of individuals and are as savage
as tigers. The “ants” that are a part of this game
do not belong to that species, but they may seem
almost as formidable to the guest who cannot re—
member words. Players supply words ending in
“ant” as follows:

\Vhat ant is :

1. Remote (distant)

2. Courteous (gallant)

3. One who works for another (servant)

4. An officer in charge (commandant)

5. Of large proportions (giant)

. A resident (tenant)

. A bird (pheasant)

. A fiag (pennant)

. Sorry (repentant)

. Prone to treat a serious subject with levity (fiippant)

O\OOO\JO\

Stunt

El Rio. A river is the reason for this problem.
The story goes that three couples were returning
from a hesta one evening when they discovered
that the toll bridge over the river which separated
them from their village was closed. The only
means of passage was a rowboat, accommodating
only two persons at a time. Each of the seiioritas
could row very well, but the men were so jealous
that none would permit his senorita to be with
either or both of the other men—in the boat or

| waiting on either shore—unless he himself was
i present. The problem is: How can the three cou-
ples get across the river under those restrictions?

Select three couples from among the party
guests and conduct them to “e1 rio.” The river is
a rug, on either side of which are six chairs. The
players sit in the chairs on one side of the rug. It
is up to them to find a way to cross the river under
the above conditions. \N hen the three couples have
reached the solution of the problem, of course,
they will all be sitting in the chairs on the other
side of the river. The players may enlist the help
of the audience, if they wish.

Here is a possible solution:

1. Sefior and Sefiorita 1 cross.

2. Senor l returns.

227

3. Seiioritas 2 and 3 cross.

4. Senorita 1 returns.

5. Sefiores 2 and 3 cross.

6. Sefior and Senorita 2 return.
7. Senoritas l and 2 cross.

8. Senor 3 returns.

9. Sefiores 3 and 1 cross.

10. Senorita 2 returns.

11. Senor and Senorita 2 cross.

Partner Finder

Guests find their partners for refreshments by
matching “proverbios espaiioles.”

Proverbios Espanoles. Divide the proverbs in
half, and make one set of slips containing the hrst
words of the proverbs in both Spanish and
English, and a second set with the last words of
the proverbs in Spanish and English. One set is
distributed among the seiioritas, the other among
the seiiores. The object is to match halves to
make a sentence.

Matching is easier if the entire proverbs are
written in Spanish on each set of slips, the English
translations being divided as formerly. Then any-
one with a nodding acquaintance with Spanish
will be able to guess approximately what the other
half of his proverb will be in English. Actually,
of course, there should be one clever senor or
sefiorita in the group who will realize that it is
necessary only to find someone with the same
Spanish words as are on his or her own slip!

1. No hay rosas sin eSpinas.
There are no roses without thorns.

2. Quien mucho habla mucho yerra.
He who speaks much blunders much.

3. Cuando una puerta se cierra, otra se abre.
When one door closes, another opens.

4. De arbol caido todos hacen lefia.
From the fallen tree all make firewood.

5. Buenas costumbres y dinero hacen a1 hombre cabellero.
Good habits and money make a gentleman.

6. Mas hace él que quiere que él que puede.
He who is willing does more than he who is able.

7. No hay peor sordo que él que no quiere oir.
No one is so deaf as he who does not want to hear.

8. No firmes carta que no leas, ni bebas agua que no
veas.
Never sign a paper without reading it, nor drink
water without seeing it.

9. Aunque la mona se vista de seda, mona se queda.

A monkey is still a monkey, though it be dressed in
silk.

10. A buen hambre no hay pan duro.
He who is hungry never finds the bread hard.

( Continued on page 275)

Community Recreation Activitiesi

The Problems We Face

By RAYMOND E. Hovr

ANY COMMUNITIES are facing very genuine

M problems in providing essential welfare ser-

vices for a great influx of industrial de-

fense workers or for army men stationed near-by.

In some instances the existence of both groups
makes the problem twofold.

Some citizens feel that local problems which have
developed because of the country-wide defense
program deserve Federal study and possible aid.
This, of course, depends on Congress, but the Fed-
eral agencies will give aid for the defense program
wherever such action is consistent with existing
authority and appropriation limits.

Bureaucracy cannot be condoned now or ever
in the United States. We are in a program to pre-
serve democracy, and democracy is bringing gov-
ernmental problems to the people. Citizens must
take the responsibility for analyzing and solving
local situations. Federal and local agencies are
always available to citizen groups for advice.

In providing emergency recreation facilities the
community must take three major steps:

1. Make a comprehensive study of ordinary and
emergency recreational needs, 'based on the opin-
ions of recreation experts.

2. Survey existing recreational resources available to
the community. These include parks and recreation
centers, schools, gymnasiums, auditoriums, social

rooms.

3. Set up a program to provide necessary additional
facilities. The public burden may be relieved
through private or even commercial enterprise if

well operated.

Local needs, of course,
must be taken into account,
but this is a national emer-
gency and requires unselfish
service. The emergency pro-
gram may mean a limited
voluntary reduction in local
recreation programs.

In nearly every commu-
nity existing areas and
structures can be studied by
an expert and easily trans-

228

|n.this issue of Recreation we are telling
briefly what a number of municipal recrea-
tion departments and private groups are
doing to make recreation facilities available
to men in near-by cantonments and to the
rapidly growing army of industrial defense
workers. As a general presentation of the
entire subiect we are publishing the sug-
gestions offered by Mr. Hoyt. who is Chief
of the Recreation Planning DivisionI Region
IV, National Park Service. in an address
before a meeting called by the California
Department of Education and WPA. at
San JoseI California. on March 8. I94I.

l
formed into acceptable play centers. These will
include the plants of private agencies, such as the
Y.M.C.A., vacant lots, American Legion halls,
social rooms in churches, lodges' and societies,
vacant buildings, stores, garages, and even fine old
residences. Several less pretentious centers are
often more desirable than a large all-inclusive unit.

Since army men are necessarily' regimented
into a program of mass living, community recrea-
tion programs should reflect home influence and
facilities should appear as attractive and home—
like as possible through the wise use of furniture,
rugs and pictures.

The soldiers will visit the community every eve-
ning, Saturday afternoon, all day Sunday and
holidays. Since they will seek urban recreation
seven nights a week, lighted facilities are needed.
Soldiers who find opportunities to play with their
fellows in the Army cantonment will want an op-
portunity to meet and play with civilians when
they go to town. Instead of highly competitive
sports they will seek the social sports such as
mixed volleyball games, tennis, badminton, arch-
ery, and table tennis.

A wholesome co-recreation program will be of
tremendous benefit to men who are away from
homes and sweethearts. Facilities for social danc-
ing and parties should be given very high priority.
The soldier will dance either in the cocktail lounge
or in the more wholesome place provided by the
best families with their daughters in attendance.
It is not necessary to have ballrooms and leading
name bands. The American Legion, some lodge
hall, or a school gymnasium will be suitable, and a
good recording machine will be more appreciated

than a mediocre local dance

band.

The soldier seeks a musi-
cal outlet, and a wise com-
munity will make available
a few rooms supplied with
necessary instruments to en—
courage “jam sessions” and
informal, spontaneous song
fests—not necessarily highly
organized community sings.

Men in camp should know
what local hobby clubs are

and the National Defense Program

available to them with civilian membership to
which they will be welcome for the contribution
they make to the program. A hobby center in a
school, an old store or new structure would stimu-
late local participation as well as provide one of
the best leisure time activity programs for the
men of defense.

Every community needs a swimming pool ade-
quate to meet local demands and the men in uni—
form will appreciate the place which has an ade-
quate, attractive, and safe pool equipped for
aquatic events, recreation swimming and night use.
The community with the municipal golf course is,
indeed, in a fortunate position. Nearly every com-
munity, however, boasts at least one private course
which may be made available to the officers and
enlisted personnel, not necessarily free, but as a
place where they may meet civilians.

Canteens may result in opposition from local
merchants, but a few items might be made avail-

‘ able for the soldier to buy while he is a guest of
the recreation center. Cold soft drinks, cigarettes
and candy bars may be dispensed through vending
machines.

The problem of providing recreation facilities
for the new industrial workers will not be so com-
plex as that for the soldier. Families are involved
here and it is'a matter of increasing regular com-
munity facilities to meet the increased need. This
may, of course, involve the provision of additional
facilities.

Federal and local agencies working in the field

_ of recreation have a most vital job to do in this
emergency. They must keep up the courage and
morale of our hghting forces and civilian workers
by providing adequate recreational facilities sup-
ported by a full recreation program.

Hospitality for Soldiers

At Historic Monterey
By GEORGE W. BRADEN

DEFENSE COMMUNITY recreation service com-
mittees are at work in Monterey, Pacific

Grove, and Salinas, California, adjacent to Fort
| 0rd. The first committee in the vicinity to be

 

Courtesy M onterey Recreation Center

organized was at Monterey, and in this project
the lead was taken by Major Charles R. Sargent,
retired army officer, and his Wife. After pre-.
liminary meetings and discussions, the Monterey
Peninsula Defense Community Recreation Ser-
vice Committee was organized, representing a
wide range of civic organizations as well as the
municipality and the Board of Education. The
Committee from the beginning had the helpful
cooperation of municipal officials including the
Mayor, City Manager, and Director of Recreation.

Through the helpful cooperation of the Jacks
sisters, leaders in much of the civic activity of this
historic and colorful city, arrangements were made
for taking over the historic Pacific Building as an
army and navy recreation center. The building
was rehabilitated and furnished to give an at-
mosphere of genuine homelikeness and hospitality.
The facilities include a general lounge and can-
teen, a game .room equipped with table games

«and pool, and a library and reading room. The

229

230 COMMUNITY RECREATION ACTIVITIES AND THE DEFENSE PROGRAM

door from the lounge leads
to a beautiful mission gar-
den down one side of
which is a broad early
Californian portico. The
garden is a delightful place
for reading, writing, con-
versation, and enjoying a
bite to eat. A large out-
door barbecue fireplace
provides for scheduled fes-
tive occasions. One por-
tion of the garden is hard
surfaced and night lighted for table tennis, quoits,
and other games. With the exception of volun-
teers who come in from. time to time to help with
special phases of the program, the Monterey center
is operated by a detail of four men assigned by
Col. Roger S. Fitch, Executive Commander of
Fort Ord. The average daily attendance at the
center is 1,200, with many more at week ends and
a lesser number at other times. A sign over the
piano reads: “If you can play, go to it; if you
can’t, we don’t like the noise.” It is anticipated
that present accommodations will soon become too
small but fortunately the building has another
large adjacent room which can be made available
when needed.

Col. Fitch and his recreation officers have ex-
pressed sincere appreciation of the near—camp
services at Monterey, Salinas, and Pacific Grove.
Ord is now building a two million dollar recrea—
tion center and'some sixty small courts and play-
ing fields. The cantonment
will also be equipped with
the usual company rooms and
regimental recreation service
buildings.

Other western
communities having
special defense com—
munity recreation
service committees
are Tacoma and
Olympia for Fort
Lewis, Camp Mur—
ray, and McChord
Field; Denver for
Lowry Field and
Fort Logan; Salt
Lake City for Fort
Douglas and the Air
Corps School;

"I feel your recent statement in the Pasa-
dena Star News reviewing defense recreation
developments in camp-communities in the West
was too optimisticI particularly in its refer-
ence to Camp Ord.'I said a woman whose son
at this camp had complained he had no place
to play tennis. Thus challengedI Mr. Bradenl
who is Western Representative of the National
Recreation Association' tells of some of the
activities conducted in Monterey. Pacific
GroveI and SalinasI California. where' in ad-
dition to other recreation facilities. there
are sixteen public tennis courts accessible to
the boys of Fort Ord through a bus service. lejo, Long Beach, Lo

When this picture was takenI twelve
hundred men were using the Monterey
Recreation Center for Men in Uniform

 

   
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   

Albuquerque for the Air
Corps; El Paso for F0
Bliss; Tucson for the Ai
Corps; Riverside fo
March Field; Stockton fo
the Air Corps; and S
Francisco for the Presidio
Municipal recreation de
partments are renderin
near—camp 0r navy servic
direct at Sacramento, Val

Angeles, and San Diego.
Near-camp committees are in process of organiza
tion to serve Air Corps soon to be established a
Fresno and Phoenix.

Men Are Not Machines!

By ALFRED P. CAPPIO

Superintendent of Recreation
Patersonl New Jersey

PATERSON, NEW JERSEY, is a very importan
part of our national defense system. Sinc
July of last year, this industrial city of approxi
mately 140,000 population has received governmen
contracts totaling more than 331 millions of dol
lars. These orders are in addition to approxi
mately I 50 millions of contracts placed by our ow
and allied nations previous to July 1940.
Paterson’s industries are busy producing engine
and propellors for airplanes, silk for parachute
and ammunition bags, cable
for the army and navy, ath
letic equipment for militar
camps, uniforms for soldiers
overalls to cove
them while at work
pressure gauges,
machine tools, lineq
thread, paper tape
and a host of other
materials to be usej
by and for the me1
in service. Every
trained artisan in
the city has been
put to work. The
Paterson Vocational
School started an
adult re-training
program that has

made skilled mechanics out of unemployed, un-
trained men. More than 5,000 of these have
already been given jobs. But more workers were

Many of these newcomers brought their families
along with them. In one plant alone, the number
of employees has increased from 3,800 to 18,000
in less than sixteen months.

To fill these contracts, it became necessary for

the factories to operate seven days a week, twenty-
four hours a day. Three times every day, a new
group of mechanics take over control of the
machines which never stop operations.
‘ As the contracts poured into the city,. and as
more and more newcomers moved into it, new
. problems arose for the citizens of the community
‘ to face and solve—prob-
! lems of production and
- of transportation, prob-
lems of housing, prob-
lems of recreation and
of the wise use of leisure
, time. The newcomers had
to be made aware of the
opportunities for recrea-
tion in the community
and to be assimilated into
those programs. In the
case of the wives of the
workers, the need for
action quickly became
evident. Of greater importance, however, was the
. problem created by workers employed on the
“night shift.” As a result of these new hours of
labor, the normal routine in many homes became
disarranged, and many families were forced to
reorganize their hours of work, rest and play.

In increasing volume, the pressure upon the
Recreation Department grew and grew. An In-
dustrial Athletic Association that had actively
promoted competitions for workers in baseball,
softball, basketball and bowling and golf, since it
was organized by the Board of Recreation twenty
years ago, took up the slack at first. The normal
programs of this organization were expanded until
today more than sixty-five concerns are partici-
pating actively in the leagues conducted by the
Paterson Industrial Athletic Association.

But neither the normal programs of the Recre-
ation Department nor of its industrial subsidiary
were adequate to meet the new problems which

 

Recently there sat around a conference fable in
the office of Mayor Furreyl of Paterson, New Jer-
sey. a group of men and women who were discuss-
ing new recreation needs which had arisen out of
the National Defense program. In the group were
workers representing the municipal and WPA rec-
reation departments. Employers of laborl foo.
were there' seafed side by side wifh delegates
from the labor unions. Suddenly a labor union rep-
resentative who had been listening quiefly fo the
discussion cried ouf: "I don't know anyfhing abouf
recreationI but I do know fhis: Men are not ma-
chines. They musf be given adequate recreation
if fhey are fo carry on fheir iobs successfully."

COMMUNITY RECREATION ACTIVITIES AND THE DEFENSE PROGRAM 231

have arisen. To solve them the Board of Recrea-
tion has begun to mobilize the entire recreational
resources of the city. The operators of commer-
cial places of recreation were approached first.
Movie houses which usually began their programs
at one o’clock in the afternoon have been per-
suaded to open two mornings each week beginning
at eleven o’clock. Thus, those who start work at
four o’clock can see the pictures. For those others
who must be at their machines by midnight, it has
been arranged to change the time at which the
feature picture is shown from 10:20 P. M. to 9:00
P. M. Bowling alleys have agreed to remain open
between the hours of I :00 to 5 :00 in the mornings
in order that bowling leagues could be organized
for the men as they finish work. A roller-skating
rink has consented to arrange special parties dur-
ing the morning hours when it ordinarily is closed.

The Industrial Athletic
Association has planned
to conduct some of its
leagues during the morn-
ing hours, and the Rec-
reation Department has
organized classes that will
carry on during these
hours. Softball is one of
the activities organized to
meet the free time needs
of defense workers. The
Industrial Athletic As-
sociation has twenty
teams in three divisions.
Leagues have been organized in the Wright Aero-
nautical Corporation as follows:

8:00 A. M. fo 4:00 P. M. Shiff

One league of ten teams playing at 5:00 P. M.
One league of eighteen teams playing at 7:00 P. M.

4:00 P. M. to l2:00 P. M. Shif’r

One league of fifteen teams playing at 10 :00 A. M.
One league of eight teams playing at 11:00 A. M.

l2:00 P. M. to 8:00 A. M. Shift

One league of sixteen teams playing at 10:00 A. M.

All Shiffs Girls' Team

One league of six teams playing Saturday afternoons

All Shifts Baseball

One league of six teams playing twilight games

This means that in one plant alone we have or-
ganized a total of seventy-three softball teams and
six hardball teams. With an average of fifteen
different players per team, 995 men and 90
women will play softball and 90 men hardball.

232 COMMUNITY RECREATION ACTIVITIES AND THE DEFENSE PROGRAM

Many workers desire improvement in cultural
and vocational fields. The State Teachers’ College
and the Workers’ Service Division of the WPA
are planning to rearrange their schedules to ac-
commodate night workers.

The help of private agencies was solicited for
work with the women. A number of these agen—
cies, under the leadership of the Board of Edu-
cation, have joined forces to carry on the pro-
grams. The first project undertaken was a “Get-
Acquainted Party” that was attended by more
than one hundred and fifty women, all newcomers
in the city. While this was a united effort, each
agency has been holding smaller social affairs for
women who have come to them for assistance.
As a result of the first party, a square dancing
group has been organized that meets once a week.
Additional classes are being formed in the crafts,
music, drama and physical and social recreation.

With the assistance of VVPA workers, a sur-
vey has been started to compile a list of all the
recreational opportunities available in or near
Paterson. When completed, the list will be made
available to the workers and their families,
through information bureaus set up in the agen-
cies, in the factories and in the labor union halls.
A monthly bulletin service listing new activities
will be issued as a supplement to the original list.
Out of this project, may come a twenty—four hour
information service available to anyone requiring
guidance in leisure-time problems.

This program has not yet solved the whole
problem, but a'start has been made in the right
direction. If Paterson’s experience proves any-
thing, it shows that recreation programs in indus-
trial defense area will be forced to operate on a
twenty-four hour a day basis. The rearrange-
ment of present programs by placing adult classes
in the morning hours is not the answer. The
bulk of the regular activities must carry on as
usual, since most residents in any community will
still be seeking recreation during. the same hours
that have proved popular in the past. Recreation
executives must not permit themselves to sacrifice
any parts of the ordinary pro-
grams, no matter how impor-
tant these new problems may
be. For after all, the objective
of any mUnicipal department
of recreation still remains the
provision of leisure-time op—
portunities for all the citizens
of the community.

In connection with this information
regarding activities in a number of
cities we want to call the attention
of our readers to the article on the
physical training classes conducted
by the Playground and Recreation
Department of Los Angeles. published
in the April issue of Recreation.

Meeting Changing Conditions

By EVERETT FINCH
Union-Star
Schenectady. New York

ATIONAL DEFENSE orders have given a tre-
N mendous boost to industrial activity in Sche-
nectady. Factories are working in shifts. Many
employes are working overtime. All this means
that workers have not only less time but odd times
for leisure activity.

It is to meet these changed conditions that the
Schenectady Department of Parks and Recrea-
tion has developed an adult recreation program
which F. H. Marvin, the director of the Park De-
partment, describes as having “quite a different
complexion” than any such program previously
offered in that city. “Our adult program,” says
Mr. Marvin, “is designed this year especially in f
the interest of maintaining physical and mental
fitness of persons engaged in long hours of labor
in the national defense program.”

The program seeks to build sound minds
through sound bodies. With less time in which to
renew mental and physical powers through rest
and recreation people must be given opportunities
for activities scheduled according to leisure—time
periods and activities which are both interesting
and valuable, in the opinion of the Recreation
Commission as voiced by its chairman, L. U.
Murray.

With all this in mind, the program concentrates!
adult recreation in four major centers in four
widely-separated parks, open from 9 A. M. until.
dark, five days a week. Saturday and Sunday
opening is promised if public demand makes the
need apparent. Opportunity is given not only for
lively but also quiet activities. The program in-
cludes the organization of morning adult leagues
and tournaments in such sports as tennis, softball
and horseshoes for men and women interested in
these games who are working on 'shifts which
preclude their playing in twilight leagues.

' Meanwhile, the children’s
side of recreation is not being
neglected. All usual activities
in parks and playgrounds are
being continued. In addition, a
schedule of special events for
the season includes the third
“all-wheels” meet for both
boys and girls in which any—

 

COJIM’IUNITY RECREATION ACTIVITIES AND THE DEFENSE PROGRAM 233

thing that moves on wheels will be eligible to

compete, the third annual marbles tournament for
boys and jacks and jump rope tournaments for

girls.

Sparta's Recreation Center
By BRYN GRIFFITHS

HILE COMMUNITIES many times its size are

trying to decide what they can do for their
growing soldier population, Sparta, a thriving,
energetic northwestern W'isconsin community of
five thousand souls, has been taking quick action
to provide recreation for Camp McCoy, five miles
from the city, where several hundred troops are
quartered. As soon as the Selective Service Bill
had been signed by the President, Sparta’s civic,
social, and religious groups put their heads to-
gether to work out a plan whereby their commu-
nity could improve the lot of the enlisted man who
I wears the khaki of Uncle Sam’s army.

Camp McCoy had been a regular army camp
for many years and Sparta residents, old hands at
meeting the army, wasted no time in calling a
meeting of representatives of more than twenty-
eight civic organizations with the specific objective
of providing not only recreation but recreation

 

facilities for the soldier off duty and away from
camp. Officials of the Wisconsin \VPA were
among those invited to attend the meeting.

It so happened that a \Visconsin National Guard
infantry company from Sparta was in training at
one Of the southern training camps. This meant a
vacant armory located ideally in a downtown
area. Why not turn this armory into a well
equipped recreation center for the boys from
Camp McCoy was the question raised at the
meeting.

No sooner said than done! The City Council,
approached on the subject, agreed to appropriate
several hundred dollars for heat, lighting, and
janitor services with the understanding that the
Recreation Department of W'PA would provide a
competent recreation director and several aids.

The result? Sparta has given Camp McCoy’s
soldiers one of the best equipped and serviced
recreation centers of any army training camp or
regular army post in the country—at least so say
army officers who have visited the center! True,
there are no frills about the center, but is is serv-
ing the enlisted men with unusual effectiveness.

“The proof of the pudding is in the eating,”
and the success of a recreation center is in the use
it gets. Open seven afternoons and seven nights a
week until 7:30 o'clock, the Sparta center is

1,, a, on: a K‘H ,

'S,

Wisconsin WPA

234 COMMUNITY RECREATION ACTIVITIES AND THE DEFENSE PROGRAM

literally jammed with
men in uniform every
evening. It contains a
regulation size basketball
court; courts for bad—
minton and volleyball; a
reading room with plenty
of magazines and books
and comfortable lounge
chairs ; a quiet game room
with chess, checkers,
cards, and other games;
dart ball boards; several
ping-pong tables; an
archery range; shuffle-
board courts; writing
tables and stationery; a checking room with free
checking facilities; and, of course, a “juke” box
and piano for the inevitable dancing.

Unique in itself is the fact that the recreation
center is used just as much by Mr. John Doe,
Citizen, his wife and family as it is by the men in
uniform, and this is not just “happenstance.” It
is the key to the whole philosophy behind the pro-
gram at Sparta—a philosophy built on the premise
that both the community and the army would be
better off if their recreation activities were admin-
istered as a unit and not separately. The soldier
is welcome in our community, and it is a common
sight to see groups of uniformed visitors compet-
ing in shuffleboard, ping-pong, chess, and check—
ers with business and professional men and their
families at the recreation center. In Sparta the
man in uniform is a part of the community.

What does the average army man miss most
when he is in a strange town with only a little
money in his pocket and plenty of time on his
hands? A careful survey made at Sparta revealed
that the doughboy wants a comfortable chair in a
homelike atmosphere where he can stretch his legs
and read or take a cat nap. Special care has been
taken to see that these wants are provided for in
a lounge room which has hooked rugs on the
floors, paintings and block prints on the walls, and
plenty of reading material. The boys are en—
couraged to bring their girl friends to the IOUnge
room where on special occasions they roll up the
carpet and put a nickel in the “juke” box for
“Roll Out the Barrel.”

Special care has been taken to make certain that
the soldier is not “regimented” in his recreation
activities. He can, within reasonable bounds, do
just about as he pleases—and how he likes it!

Other cities are making good use of armories as
recreation centers both for near-by camps and
local residents. The Recreation Department of
OrlandoI Florida, is developing an adult recre-
ation center in the armory for local people and
for the army air base in the vicinity. The
armory contains facilities for basketball. hand-
ball. shuffleboard and badminton. There are an
exercise roomI a game roomI a reading roomI a
workshop, dressing rooms, and offices for the
Recreation Department and the army staff. ln
return for the use of the Recreation Department's
equipment, the army supplies janitorial service.
The City Council of Savannah. GeorgiaI has made
an appropriation for the Soldiers' Club in the
Old Guards' Armory. for the equipment of which
civic groups in the community raised $l0.000.

    
    
  

Sparta’s recreation cen-
ter did not come into be-
ing like a bolt from the
blue! Nothing could be
further from the facts.
It took days of intensive
effort on the part of many
citizens, army officers,
and WPA officials to get
the center into operation,
and the results now so
gratifying were carefully
planned for. The experi-
ence in Sparta shows
what a community can
do when responsible, in-
terested citizens, the army, and local agencies pool
their efforts effectively.

With the coming of warm weather, additional
thousands of troops are expected in Sparta. The
recreation center is not large enough to take care
of them, but plans are under way for similarl
centers in other towns near the camp. Tomah, six-
teen miles away, is considering plans for turning
its National Guard armory into a recreation center
and La Crosse, another of the nearby communi-
ties, is making its plans. In all instances the Rec-
reation Department of WPA is rendering service
to the communities and to the army as well.

Another problem which several Wisconsin
communities are facing is that of providing ade-
quate recreation service for workers in heavy in-
dustrial areas engaged in manufacturing defense
materials. In Manitowac, a city of 25,000 popula- I
tion, the federal government has a ship building
program in excess of $60,000,000. The ianUX of
skilled and unskilled labor has been tremendous
causing all kinds of problems for local civic au—
thorities, one of them being the lack of adequate
recreation facilities for the workers in their free
time. Plans to meet the need are now in the
making in cooperation with WPA. At West Allis,
the home of Allis Chalmers, where more than
8,000 workers are engaged on government defense
contracts, the story is the same. '

At Camp Douglas, Wisconsin, site of the state’s
huge military reservation, more than $1,000,000
worth of defense building is now under way. To
speed the Work, the state and WPA have in-
augurated a “work camp.” More than five hun-
dred skilled and unskilled laborers eat and sleep
in the camp which is only a few hundred yards
from the projects. Here again recreation for the

COMMUNITY RECREATION ACTIVITIES AND THE DEFENSE PROGRAM 235

"You'll find parczhesiI
checkers. and a darf
board in the recre-
afion hall, boys."

hf f I". "‘ -
Wis:- '

._ h‘l_

men during their
off hours was a
problem which
“IPA is helping
to solve by set-
ting up a center
and placing a
competent di—
rector in charge.
The center is
equipped with
games of all
varieties and
reading matter.
Once a week
free movies are
shown.

Warehouse Now a Club

N EX-WAREHOUSE with a new coat of red paint
A is Indianapolis’ latest draftee for defense
recreation. The search for a suitable place in
which to house a service center for men in uni-
form at the capital of Indiana has finally ended in
an abandoned brick building which the city rents
for $1 a year. Its sagging floors have been braced,
the old walls are freshly painted, and a brilliant
white sign announces that it is the Army, Navy
and Marine Service Club for Enlisted Men.

Here the hundreds of citizen soldiers stationed
in and near Indianapolis will have a place to
lounge, play and meet new friends. The main
floor office serves as a clearing house for indi—
viduals or agencies who wish to provide amuse-
ment or social contacts for the men on leave. This
club is the city’s first step in providing rest and
recreation for its defense guests.

The club, which is sponsored by the Recreation
Department of the Park Board, was officially
opened Saturday, May 24th. But before the men
in uniform took over, the building was opened for
inspection so that the public could
see what is being done for the
service men. And along with the
announcement of the official open-
ing went a plea from Recreation

"Morale is one of fhe few forms
of preparafion for war which is
profifable even if war never
occurs."—Ralpb Barton Petty.

 
 
 
  

Director H. W. Middlesworth that local citizens
help to complete the building’s furnishings.

Every room in the center has been furnished
by individuals or civic organizations. There were
no funds available for equipment, so interested
citizens donated everything from light bulbs to
water coolers. They hauled in chairs, tables,
couches, davenports, and writing desks—every—
thing to make the club comfortable and homey.
Just before the opening date, Mr. Middlesworth
asked for more supplies—rugs, card tables, pen-
cils, ink, ash trays, screens, fans and clocks. The list
of needed items included a buzzer for communi-
eating with the second floor and ice for the water
coolers. Since the citizens of Indianapolis have
equipped the building and the Marion County
\NPA staffs the club, the only cost to the city has
been for renovation, repair and rent.

One entire wall in the main floor reception room
is a classroom blackboard for notices and an—
nouncements. Here will be posted the date and
time of entertainments and activities in which the
boys on leave might be interested. And here also
on the main floor will be a regis-
tration desk and an information

center.
On the second floor above the
reception room are the recreation

236 COMMUNITY RECREATION ACTIVITIES AND THE DEFENSE PROGRAM

rooms. Behind a maze of doors, the soldier, sailor
or marine will find lounges, reading and writing
rooms, ping-pong and billiard centers, music rooms,
hang-out and social rooms and an overflow lounge.
The music room boasts a console radio and juke
box, books and magazines have been donated for
the reading rooms, and writing rooms are well
stocked with the official service club stationery.
United citizen action in this community has
given the men in uniform something to do in their
spare time. Now they can meet friends, get up a
game of bridge, write letters or just loaf. But no
matter what the program, the defense man on
leave in Indianapolis knows that in the heart of
the city there is a place all his own where he can

always “hang his hat.”

Service Men’s Club of Seattle

ARLY IN THE FALL of 1940, army and navy
E authorities called upon the Military Affairs
Committee of the Chamber of Commerce, urging
that this committee take over the establishment of
a club where enlisted men on leave to Seattle
might establish a central point for the carrying out
of their many extraneous activities. Believing that
an army and navy club should have the backing
of the entire city, the Committee asked Governor
Arthur B. Langlie, then Mayor of Seattle, to form
a Civic Committee to carry out this function.

In mid-November the Mayor appointed a city-
wide committee composed of representative citi-
zens who were recognized as leaders in civic,
social service, and health work, such as represen-
tatives of county and municipal governments, edu-
cational institutions, Chamber of Commerce, or-
ganized labor, religious bodies, patriotic and fra-
ternal orders, social welfare agencies of all kinds,
service clubs, women’s clubs, parent-teacher asso-
ciations, and veterans’ organizations. An executive
committee of nine members
has been appointed to carry
out the wishes of the larger
committee.

being financed by public con-
tributions and an emergency
appropriation of $20,000 by
the City Council. Further
public contributions of money,
material, time and labor are
needed to carry on and main-

EMERGENCY

The President of the United States has
declared that a national emergency ex-

The Service Men’s Club is ists. How does this affect recreation
workers and recreation systems through-

out the United States?

In iust this way: it becomes more im-
portant than ever that each recreation
system do its full part in building morale.
Few groups are in a
helpful. We will all want to do our part.

—-H award Braucber.

position to be as

    
    
  
  

tain the club headquarters. The executive com-
mittee has worked closely with the officers of Fort
Lewis and the Thirteenth Naval District in plan-
ning this club so as to be able to render the best
service possible to enlisted. personnel visiting
Seattle.

The Service Men’s Club is designed primarily
as a central club headquarters for enlisted men 0
leave to Seattle. The club facilities will include
checking room, ladies’ waiting room, lounge, rec-
reation area for billiards, table tennis and table
games, library and writing room, a fifty-bed dor-
mitory, a light canteen service, ample rest rooms,
and an Information Service on sleeping accommo-
dations, meals, points of interest, athletic events,
church services, and shows.

A social program of activities will also be pro-
moted from this central headquarters. Social
dances, shows, city tours, boat trips, and, other
activities are planned as part of the general pro-
gram. The enlistment of many organizations in
the city to give assistance to the program will be
necessary. I

The Service Men’s Club occupies the first three
floors of a downtown building. The Committee
has an option to lease the next two floors if they
are needed.

Defense Recreation in
San Diego

HE SAN DIEGO, California, Recreation Depart-

ment, in cooperation with the WPA Recrea-
tion Project, of which Harry Van Syckle is Dis-
trict Supervisor, has for years made an amateur
talent show a playground feature. Auditoriums
and the outdoor theater have been utilized almost
constantly to provide opportunities and to encour-
age participants to share their talents and skills.

When, some months ago,‘
young men from all parts of’
the United States began to
pour into army, navy, and
marine camps near San Diego,
W. A. Kearns, Director of
Physical Education and City
Recreation, with the help of
Mr. Van Syckle, brought to-
gether a committee of WPA
recreation leaders including
two masters of ceremonies

and two accompanists. The committee, using play-

. ground index cards which list all amateur talent
'n San Diego, has arranged units to entertain the
men in training. From this reservoir of talented
people many entertainments have already been
organized. ‘

i Two shows of eighty minutes each are planned
very week for Fort Rosecrans, Camp Callan,
|Camp Marina, the Marine Base, and the Navy
;Field. Other camps are scheduled less frequently.
I ‘ n average of two shows are put on each week,
|’ vhich are known as WPA Recreation Projects,
'l o-sponsored by the San Diego Recreation De-

‘ artment.

 

l
I.

Scranton's Canteen

i HE BUREAU OF RECREATION of Scranton,
‘ Pennsylvania, in February conducted a can-
een for the six hundred or more members of the
I 109th Infantry who were in training for six days
i t the city’s largest recreation center before going
,’ nto federal service at'In'diantown Gap. Since the
|l Bureau had no available funds for the purpose,
lssistance was secured from the local motion pic—
' ure operators’ union who each morning provided
3 he coffee, sugar, and cream for the refreshments.
his local union also cooperated to the extent of
ielping the Bureau purchase some needed addi-
ional cups and spoons. The Scranton Kiwanis
"lub, the Scranton Group Theater (organized and
ponsored by the Bureau for the past three years)
nd the Spaulding Bakeries donated the hundreds
l f doughnuts required each morning to feed all of
l he soldiers.

The actual work of getting the refreshments
eady each morning was done by members of our
taff.——From Warren C. Smith, Superintendent
f Recreation.

' In a Louisiana City

I ‘ HE CITY OF Alexandria, Louisiana, is sur—
r rounded by three training camps containing
x; 25,000 men. In addition, the city’s normal popu-
ation of 27,000 has been swelled by thousands of

i orkmen completing construction of two of the
r amps and enlarging the- permanent Camp Beaure-
' ard. City auditoriums and school buildings have
een placed at the disposal of army officers as
ecreation centers, and churches and other organi-

I ations have cooperated. Plans are under way to

COMMUNITY RECREATION ACTIVITIES AND THE DEFENSE PROGRAM 237

build several recreation centers at the city’s ex-
pense.—~—From Minnesota Municipalities, April

1941.

Defense and the Playgrounds
of St. Paul

HE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, Playgrounds and
' Public Buildings of St. Paul, Minnesota, an-
nounces a.program designed “to make easier the
transition from civilian to army life for all local
men registered under selective service.” The pro-
gram will include non-military physical fitness
clubs for men registered for the draft which will
be recreational in character. Only men holding
draft registration cards will be. eligible for mem-
bership. The program will also include the or-
ganization of defense clubs at ten centers for boys
from sixteen to twenty-one years of age. First-aid
instruction will be given, as well as physical edu-
cation and activities designed to promote physical
fitness. Older girls, too, will share in the program
through the organization of girls’ and women’s
emergency clubs at six centers. Emphasis in these
clubs will be on first aid and home nursing. Girls
over eighteen may join.

In Detroit

IN DETROIT, national defense has become the vital
issue of the day, and cooperation in the national
defense program has been the most satisfactory
effort put forth by the Department of Parks and
Recreation. The purpose has been to help familiar—
ize young men with the routine and discipline of
military life. The plan, as it has been put into
effect, is as follows:

Early in the fall, an intensive course in military
drill and physical fitness exercises was given the
recreation instructors of the Department, the
United States Army Manual being used as a text
book. Fifty centers were then designated to take
care of the classes. The response of the young
men of the city was tremendous, and classes were
taxed to capacity.

The scope of the program-has now been widened
to include leisure—time activities of various kinds
including hobbies and similar activities which
young men may enjoy in off-duty hours.

Have You Tried "Relicking"?

E THINK we have found
w it! No, it is not a dere-

lict Missouri farmhouse
that promises to lend itself to
idyllic rehabilitation; nor is it
a ready and easy way to un—
scramble the family budget. It
is a hobby. And even though
you may already have learned
to beguile yourself with water
colors, weaving, stamp collect-
ing, or metal working, you may
be interested in learning about
our discovery.

In the flrst place, it is a hobby that. meets ex-
ceedingly rigorous requirements: the entire family
can enjoy it—at least all those beyond the age of
six or seven; it is not expensive either to begin
or continue; it requires no unusual aptitude or
special equipment; it is healthful, educational,
and relaxing. What is more, it is important, and
it has amazing carry-over value.

That sounds almost like a ten-easy-lessons sales
talk, especially the emphasis upon its importance.
But it is not. As far as we and some of our
friends are concerned, it is a declaration of
experience. You see, I am writing about some-
thing we have done for years. It is not a secret;
even our best friends talk about it. It is relicking—
searching for the remnants of a civilization that
long since disappeared from America—arrow—
heads, scrapers, stone knives and axes, fragments
of pottery, mortars and pestles—in fact, anything
that was made or used by the American Indians
centuries ago.

Surely, you say, that is not a hobby; it is the
business of archaeologists! In its ultimate stages
it is, to be sure, for only the scientiflcally trained
worker should venture to do such things as exca-
vate mounds. Nothing that I recommend here
will interfere with the task of the archaeologists;
I am concerned only with gleaning what they may
have missed, although in many instances amateur
discoveries may unearth important clues for the
scientists. As I have already asserted, relicking is
a fascinating pastime and hobby. Its concomitants
are delightful rides over little-used country roads,
the carefree luxury of baggy trousers and old

238

By ROBERT A. L. MORTVEDT

Stephens College
Columbia, Missouri

Here are some suggestions for a hobby
which will last a life time. For "it would
not be a hobby." says Mr. Mortvedt.
"nor would it be tunI it you ac:
quired your collection in a short time.
Let this hobby grow with the years;
let it grow while youI absorbing the
sunshine. enioy excursions with your
family into the hills and the fields."

sweaters, the delicious tasti-
ness of steaks fried over an
open fire, and finally the joy
of the search itself.

Probably I inherited a love
for this hobby. As far back as
memory goes, I can recall g0-
ing into my father’s study with
a purpose decidedly unbook—
ish. In some manner I had dis-
covered that a certain box,
probably fifteen inches square
and six inches deep, contained
a multitude of treasures. Just
how I had acquired this knowledge I do not know,
for the box was ordinarily situated on top of what
still strikes me as a towering bookcase. Never-
theless, I knew about the box and its intriguing
contents. Perhaps on some forgotten occasion an
older brother had mounted the shelves of the
bookcase ladder—fashion and discovered the secret.
I can distinctly recall the flrst time I made such
an attempt myself, only to feel with a sense of
sickening terror the outward, toppling sway of
those lofty shelves.

Having learned about the box, however, I fre-
quently returned to the study, especially when I
heard the reassuring click-click of Father’s 01d
Blickensdoerfer. (For the younger generation I
must insert a note to the effect that this formid-
able name was attached to an extremely ingenious
typewriter.) My father was an extremely busy
village pastor with an incorrigible bent for
scholarly pursuits. In view of the latter fact, he
was frequently immersed in studies which de-
manded a reasonable degree of solitude and quiet
—if such a state ever could prevail in a household
comprising eight children, a dog, a lamb, a cow,
chickens, pigeons, horses, and cats ad infinitum.
When, therefore, I heard the Blickensdoerfer, I
knew I was reasonably safe in interrupting him.
He was probably writing a letter—with four car—
bon copies—to his sisters and brother, and he
would not mind being disturbed.

On such occasions I asked for the box—and got
it with the injunction that I must be careful.
Filed on top, dusty yet glittering, were various
geological specimens. For me they possessed only

 

HAVE YOU TRIED “RELICKING” 239

a casual importance, although they attested
Father’s penchant for collecting. Below them in
a fascinating heap were hundreds of stone imple-
ments—arrowheads, knives, spearheads, and tur-
tlebacks. Most of them were white, but some
had been chipped from a beautiful coral-pink fiint
that seemed to warm my eager hands ; still others
were brown, or a lovely sooty black; a few looked
like pieces of rock candy. For some unaccountable
reason those chipped stones fascinated me despite
the fact that I knew little of their origin and
significance. Having satisfied my immediate de-
sire to select a few of the most attractive, I ordi-
narily sorted them into rows, ranging those of
similar size and design together.

Upon occasion, as I grew older, Father told me
something of their origin and his interest in them.
I learned that most of them had been picked up
in the Dakotas. Just where that was I had no
idea, for we then lived in Illinois; but the name
sounded far-away and foreign, and the possi-
bility that I might find such interesting treasures
myself was not mentioned. For some reason,
probably the burdens of a large family and the
press of clerical duties, Father had discontinued
his relicking upon moving to Illinois, and he never
suggested that he and I might go out and look
together. Yet, whether he knew it or not, there
were potentially rich fields only a few miles away.
It was many years, unfortunately, before I dis-
. covered the fact myself.

In the meantime, I had another experience con-
nected with such relics. Upon visiting a neigh-
boring village some nine miles distant, I saw in a
drug store window what appeared to be a fabu-
; lously rich collection. I must have stood goggle-
eyed. Those beautiful fiints were not merely laid
out in orderly rows; they were sewed in strange
and intricate designssupon rich backgrounds of
plush and satin, or they were attached to lustrous
slabs of polished walnut! Fit settings, I thought,
for such things of beauty. Standing first on one
leg and then on the other, I contemplated them,
i pressing my nose against the cool plate glass in
order to get a better view. I have seen many fine
collections since that time; yet, to this moment,
with no expenditure of imaginative effort, I can
' translate myself to that drug store window, and I
see some of those panels with complete clarity.

Thereafter nothing could suffice but that I imi-
tate such works of art. No doubt I failed—a fact
all too obvious now—but my Father gladly added
his blessing to my efforts, and I still have my

panel. The designs, perhaps none too clear to
others, are very clear to me; and I am no longer
hurt when someone exclaims, “And see! he has a
design in it.”

As the years passed I began to find occasional
arrowheads myself, and I distinctly remember the
day when one of my brothers found a stone axe.
We were walking along the creek after spending
most of the day swimming. Then began a series
of periodic excursions of exploration. My future
father-in-law had found occasional arrowheads in
the neighborhood of his farm, and he was not
averse to tramping the fields with me. His
daughter, however, at that time was not interested.
It ,may have been a strange courtship, but Dad
and I frequently sought relics together, and we
found them. Not many, but enough to keep my
interest alive. .

It was during those days that I acquired the
mental habit of trying to reconstruct the civiliza-
tion of a departed people, fragments of whose
tools and weapons were strewn about the fields
and hillsides. In my mind I saw them as they
went about their work, laboriously achieving with
crude stone implements what we accomplish so
deftly with sharp steel today. I erected tepee vil-
lages upon the knolls. especially where I found
fragments of pottery; I saw the squaws cultivat-
ing the corn with heavy stone hoes. When the
configuration of the land suggested an old lake
bottom and arrow points were unusually numer-
ous, I saw hunters in wait for thirsty deer and
buffalo or shooting down geese and ducks. On
other occasions I pictured battle fields with their
hail of stone-tipped arrows and their hurtling
battle axes.

Now, years later, having found relics in several
states, we are in Missouri. Among our friends we
number one family of ardent relickers, and others
are getting the fever. In their spare time this
family has built a remarkable collection—or
should I say collections? For although there is
general rejoicing at a lucky find, each individual is
jealously partial to his own; and when the treas-
ures are displayed, they always appear—as they
ought—in individual groups that are sedulously
kept apart. Such friendly rivalry adds zest and
spice to the hobby. Bird points as tiny as kernels
of corn, having escaped the depredations of four
generations of plowshares and harrows, are now
tenderly wrapped in cotton. Arrowheads and
javelin points are beautifully mounted on squares
of cardboard. A comment on a point almost in-

240 HAVE YOU TRIED “RELICKING”?

variably elicits the story of when, where, and how
it was found. True relickers do not forget; they
not only remember the field but even their stance
when the discovery occurred.

But just how does one do it? A good way is to
put on old clothes, prepare a generous lunch, and
then ride casually into the country along some
river, especially if the country is a little hilly and
somewhat wooded. Stop occasionaly at a cross-
roads store or at a farm house to inquire if any-
one ever picks up arrowheads (sometimes known
colloquially as Indian rocks) in the neighborhood.
If the answer is yes, make more particular in-
quiries about the sites where they are found, and
set about your search. The best time, incidentally,
is a day or two after a heavy rain, for the rain
washes the stones clean and frequently leaves
them standing on tiny pedestals of dirt. If nec-
essary, get permission from the farmer to invade
his fields and then begin to look. If there hap-
pens to be a bull wandering about, you may find
it advisable to seek a new territory. When I say
“look,” I do not mean just a casual survey; I
mean a painstaking, methodical, stooped—forward
search. Usually fiintshards mean you are getting
“warm”; keep on looking. Pick up anything that
appears to be “worked,” that is chipped systemati-
cally. It may be a scraping tool, a knife, or a
fragment of an arrowhead. Pretty soon someone
will make a real find. Take time to rejoice, of
course, but keep on looking, for only in that way
will you get your quota. At the end of a half
day’s search you may have nothing or you may
have a dozen “perfects.” No one can tell. It is
just like fishing. If you don’t catch anything, you
are always expecting to; if you do catch a fish,
you are always anticipating a much better one.

If you are going to be
modestly scientific about it

(and you should be), it is of extreme importance
that you keep some sort of record of your dis-
coveries. A good way to do this is to number
your various pieces with ink and then keep a little
“key” or record book. All pieces found in such
and such a site are numbered “I,” for example.
If you do this, your collection may sometimes
have great historical and scientific value, and be-
sides it adds to your pleasure. It was to this
possibility that I referred at the beginning when l
said the hobby had importance. Some of the.
finest collections of Indian relics that have been.
made were assembled by amateurs. It is probably
apropos to remark that should you dispose of your
finds, you should not disperse them helter-skelter, .
for a single piece here and there is utterly value-
less. Rather find out where the local historical
society maintains its collection and then make your
contribution.

It should be emphasized emphatically that you
cannot comb a field clean in one expedition. Every
heavy rain, and especially every plowing, makes'
it again worth while. Moreover, it is a good plan
to add constantly to your repertory of sites. If
you aren’t lucky in one, you may be in another.
And above all, and as a final word, don’t get dis-
couraged too easily. It would not be a hobby, nor
would it be fun, if you acquired your collection
in a short time.

For several years Robert D. Scott, a thirteen
year old school boy from Fort Montgomery, New
York, has been the almost daily companion of
James E. Burggraf, the archaeologist of the Trail-
side Museum at Bear Mountain State Park. Just
recently, while Robert and a school companion
were walking along the west bank of the Hudson

River near Bear Mountain, he

(Ccintz'nued on page 281)

On this panel specimens of spearheads,
knives. and drills have been mounted

 

Dartmouth's lntormal Natural History Program

 

I
l
‘l

Ew COLLEGES in the country

have attempted to bridge

the gap existing between
teachers and students by .means
of informal teaching. Colleges have been criti—
cized for their reluctance to do away with any of
the content of their courses so that students could
pursue the activities in which they are most inter-
ested. Tradition and continued use of our present
system of grading do not permit radical changes
in the content of college curricula to be made.
Some teachers have pioneered in informal teach-
ing within the limits of the present standards, and

iwe should not say that such teaching does not

exist. In fact, there are even a few colleges in
the country where certain standards have been
abandoned so that they could foster a workshOp or
individualized method of instruction, which I am
calling informal teaching. This is especially true
in summer sessions.

A few high school principals have tried this
methL‘d of teaching, finding it most satisfactory
with the better students. Many readers will be
familiar with the movement started some years
ago to permit certain high schools and prepara-
tory schools to experiment with various progres—
sive educational methods. These schools are to be
permitted to send their graduates to college wholly
on the basis of these unusual school curricula. It
will be interesting to examine the final results of
this experiment to see if there is an added ad—
vantage to it as a more interesting and sounder
method of teaching. One of the preliminary con-
clusions seems to be that such programs require
more work on the part of the teacher and more
teachers for a given num-
ber of students.

Another criticism which
colleges occasionally make,
and quite often rightfully,
is due to the emphasis
placed upon indoor labora—
tory work in the sciences
which causes a lack of ap-
preciation of the immediate
surroundings. Many stu-
dents can take thirty or
forty hours of biology in

By RICHARD LEE WEAVER
College Naturalist
Dartmouth College

In I938. Dartmouth College appointed to its
staff a college naturalist to whom was given
the rank of instructor in the regular faculty.
and who would be responsible directly to
the Dean of the Faculty. He was given ab-
solute treedom of action and was relieved of
all classes and ordinary routine so as to be
free to go out into the field at any time. A
separate building and an individual budget
for equipment were provided. In this article
Dr. Weaver tells what is involved in being a
college naturalist. and what the objectives
are in this new. forward-looking profession.

some colleges today and not
know one plant, bird, or mam-
mal from another when they
step outside of the laboratory.
A few colleges, such as Cornell University, Uni-
versity of Michigan, University of Wisconsin,
Iowa State College, Ohio State University, and
the University of Minnesota, have emphasized
field training and have many fine field COUrses.
We expect graduates of these schools to have a
well-rounded background which will include field
knowledge of the flora and fauna. Other colleges,
especially those liberal arts colleges which have
pre-medical training, are most apt to concentrate
on laboratory and lecture courses which minimize
field studies. In fact, in some of the schools it is

difficult for a straight zoology major to find any

courses with an adequate field study program.
At Dartmouth College, where we believe we
have a well-rounded curriculum in biology with
some field courses in both zoology and botany, we
still find that we are not training a great number
of field men through our regular courses. Al—
though we have courses in ornithology, plant and
tree taxonomy, and entomology which take students
outdoors, we do not have more than six or eight
students electing these courses each time they are
given. With the pre-medical school on the campus,
much of the zoology caters to this group,iand
practically all of the better students in zoology
end up in the medical school. However, there are
many other students on the campus interested in
natural history who are not biology majors.
These students may be able to schedule one or two
courses in natural history as electives before they
graduate, but quite often
must take the elementary
ones as they are prerequi-
sites to the field courses.
Few of the elementary
courses, except geology, in-
clude any field studies.
Therefore, if a student is a
bio-logy major he may find
it difficult to obtain any
great amount of field train-
ing in zoology due to the
pre-medical influence, and

241

242 DARTMOUTH’S INFORMAL NATURAL HISTORY PROGRAM

if not a major, but interested
in natural history as a hobby,
he will find it hard to sched—
ule the few courses which do
stress field work.

A considerable number of
the faculty members of Dart-
mouth College have for many
years been interested in nat-
ural history and the out—of-doors. At one time a
flourishing bird club existed in Hanover. These
people are still interested, but for one reason or
another have had to give up strenuous outdoor
activity or have become too occupied with other
duties to participate regularly in field activities.
They were Dr. Frederic P. Lord of the Medical
School, Dr. Charles Proctor in the Physics De-
partment, Prof. Leland Griggs of the Biology De-
partment, Mr. Harold Rugg and Mr. Nathaniel
Goodrich of the Library staff, Dr. James W.
Goldthwaite in the Geology Department, and
Professor E. Gordon Bill, Dean of the Faculty.
A few active field men have been added to the
staff, including Dr. William Ballard, Dr. Winslow
Hatch and Professor W. W. Bowen in Biology,
but they too have become so occupied with class-
room teaching and museum routine that they have

had to terminate temporarily most of their field.

studies outside of their own class requirements.
Professor Bowen had started a Museum Club and
a series of Sunday afternoon lectures on natural
history and had to give them up due to pressure
of other duties. Dr. Hatch resigned to accept an
appointment at the State College of Washington.
Thus it seemed that many of the undergraduates
were interested in natural history and yet received
little encouragement or help from the faculty. It
seemed, too, that there had been a general let-up
in natural history interest in the community and
college generally, due to the withdrawal of many
of the reliable sources of help and inspiration.

In 1937, Dean Bill called a group of the faculty
together to discuss ways and means of starting a
movement which would get more of the students
out of doors, which would make them more nat-
ural history-minded, and which would cater to
those who were already quite interested. A com-
mittee of six was then selected from the larger
group to survey the possibilities of creating the
position of naturalist, to suggest the scope of such
a program, as well as to secure a person to con-
duct the work. The committee drew up the plans
and suggested program possibilities, but a person

"When Thoreau wrote. 'Every commu- was not located until the
nity or town will have its naturalist just
as it has its doctors or lawyers.I he was
probably impressed with the necessity
for administering to people's natural
interest in the out of doors and the
need for directed leisure so that they
might have less occasion to need the
ministrations of the latter professions."

spring of 1938 when the
writer was selected to inaugu-
rate the program.

Since college men are apt
to react unfavorably to any—
thing bordering on high pres-
sure salesmanship, it was
, thought best to begin special
projects which could be gradually expanded to
include as many students as become interested
during the course of the work, and not to publi-
cize the presence of the naturalist through the
ordinary channels of publicity. Such things as
bird banding, small mammal trapping, floral and
fauna] surveys, and the preparation of museum
study skins were some of the initial activities, and
the presence of the naturalist became known to
many largely through these activities.

An unusual bit of luck greatly stimulated inter-
est in the initial year. Unheard of numbers of
purple finches flocked into New England, and
wholesale banding and feathering experiments
were set up. This resulted in a great deal of co-
operative action among the students, faculty, and
townspeople. Over 2,000 of the birds were banded
and the results of the invasion were published in
Bird Banding Magazine.

Some members of the Dartmouth Outing Club
had felt the need for a Natural History Club and
consulted the naturalist about organizing one.
The club was started and he was selected as the
faculty adviser of it. The club meets in his office.
Through the club, regular week-end excursions,
afternoon field trips, and evening lectures were
started, emphasizing field studies. Some club proj-
ects were initiated such as making floral and
fauna] surveys of the areas around the D.O.C.
cabins, making a club herbarium, observing and
reporting spring and fall migrations of birds,
leading junior trips for high school and grade
school students, and banding and studying bats in
the caves of Vermont. Week-end excursions to
carry out these projects have resulted in trips to
most of the cabins, to the Atlantic Coast, Lake
Champlain, Mount Tom in Massachusetts, and
many other interesting places in New Hampshire
and Vermont.

In addition to the regular trips and projects,
bi—monthly meetings are held, two banquets are
given each year, and monthly reports and an an-
nual report are published.

At least eighty men have been influenced

DARTMOUTH’S INFORMAL NATURAL HISTORY PROGRAM 243

directly by membership in the club during the
two years of its existence, and of course there
have been many others who visited or participated
to a limited extent in the various activities. Only
seven of the thirty—three regular members the first
year were biology majors, while ten out of the
thirty active members the second year planned to
continue in natural history as an occupation. The
scholastic average of the men in the club is sur—
prisingly high, showing that the better students
have the time and interest to participate in extra-
curricular activities.

Practically all of the work done is without
credit, except in the instances where men conduct
outdoor projects for their recreation credit or
where they seek the naturalist’s help in conduct—
ing field projects for some regular course. A few
students get interested in natural history for the
first time through the activities of the club, but in
the majority of cases the men have been stimu-
lated in high or grade school and naturally gravi—
tate to similar activities.

The club’s program has become so interwoven
with the naturalist’s own activities that it is dif-
ficult to speak of them separately. Through the
club he is able to make contact with many of the
men. There are other activities that should be

mentioned. A fac-
ulty plant group has
met once a week
for nearly two years
to study the flora ,
of the region and
to test out various
types of keys and
guides. Regular
field trips on two
afternoons a week
have been conducted
for faculty and
townspeople as well
as for the students.
Weekly summaries
of the “nature hap-
penings” outdoor s
are published in the
weekly paper. Field
trips for juniors
are conducted dur—
ing spring and fall
for the study of
birds and plants.
Regular ornithologi-

cal reports are sent to the Fish and \Vildlife Ser—
vice and to the New England Museum of Natural
History. A bird bibliography for New Hamp—
shire and Vermont is being prepared.

A nature recreation course is being conducted
during the evenings for local teachers, prospective
camp counselors, and others interested. It is with—
out college credit. Between fifty and sixty people
have regularly attended the lectures and demon—
strations which cover all phases of natural history
and methods of teaching it. Men completing the
course and receiving certificates will be recom—
mended through the College Personnel Bureau
for positions as nature counselors.

In summarizing the advantages of the informal
program at Dartmouth for the first two years, one
can conclude that there was a large latent interest“
in natural history in the student body and the
community which needed only to be tapped. Many
students have been encouraged to continue their
high school nature interests while others are find—
ing new ones for the first time. These men know
now that they have a friend and a counselor on

(Continued on page 276)

A group of students studying botany
in the field in order to supplement
their regular courses in the subject

, '6-1. ~
i .. ~_J__J§

at” is s K.
a ‘ S. ...

 

C‘nrtcsy Srz't’ncr’ Counsellor

Let’s Stay Home and Play!

ONY AND HIS father walked

down 49th Street toward the

amazing little library which
loaned toys and games instead of
books. Three blocks over they
could see the bright lights that
were Broadway, but here on the
West Side it was dark—except for the light from
the library window which made a square patch of
white on the sidewalk.

Together they peered through the big window,
and then Tony pushed open the door. The library
was warm and new—looking and from the craft-
shop in the rear came the smell of freshly-cut
wood. Boys and girls were sawing and cutting and
hammering, but Tony’s eyes were on the gay
shelves of toys which lined the left wall. In one
corner he had spied a bagatelle game and as he
hurried up to the attendant he pulled a worn
library card out of his pocket.

' But his father had already picked up a chess
game and was looking at it intently.

“Let’s take this one, Tony.” .

“Aw gee, I want this one. I don’t know how to
play that.”

The argument went on until the sympathetic
attendant assured Tony’s father that he could have
a library card of his own. Half an hour later the
man and boy were hurrying home along the dark
streets—"with the chess game, and the bagatelle
game as well!

To the smiling librarian who had already turned
back to help a little pig-tailed girl with her doll,
Tony and his father were a symbol of what the
Home Recreation Library of 'the Boys’ Athletic
League is doing and hopes to do. For now on
New York’s West Side fathers and mothers can
stay home to play with their children the games
they borrow from this library. Recreation at home
has a real meaning for the
family when play equipment
is available. Boys and girls
whose family budgets do not
permit toys need not play on
the streets, and mothers and
fathers can find recreation
outside the corner movie
houses.

“We are trying to re-create

244

I’on probation"

rChildren's toy
be ranked among the unique in-
stitutions of America, and in
New York City there is a lend-

ing library which parents may
share with their children.

On January 29th.three hundred "mothers"
from two to fourteen years old held a
show at which their "babies" were dis-
played. All of the girls had received
dolls from the Library.

already adopted them: others were still
to see whether they

were maintaining the standards of doll
care demanded by the Library before

issuing formal certificates of adoption.

recreation within the home, where
it belongs,” that is how James
Moore, director of activities for
the Boys’ Athletic League, ex-
presses the purpose of the family
library. “Especially in times of
strife and unrest throughout the
world the bonds of understanding and association
within the home need to be strengthened.”

The founders do not consider the library as an
emergency measure but a permanent part of the rec-
reation life of New York. In addition to strength-
ening family life. through recreation, the library
hopes to develop community interest in child wel-
fare, provide a community service, decrease the
number of home and street accidents, help in the
reduction of juvenile delinquency, and encourage
other communities to try the experiment.

Originated by Mr. Moore, the recreation library
is believed to be the first of its kind to serve the
entire family. Its games, toys, and party equip-
ment are purchased, catalogued and loaned out to
patrons from six months to sixty years of age.
Youthful members must have their applications
signed by parents, and before anyone is given a
card he promises to: '

libraries may

1. Return games in the same condition as when bor-
rowed by him

2. Return games within one week

3. Report immediately to the library any contagious
diseases in the family

4. Pay for any game or any parts lost, damaged or
broken while in his possession.

Only twelve games have been lost since the
little library was first opened in February, 1939.
Occasionally, when parts have been broken or
misplaced by young members they have saved
their pennies to pay for the damage. At present
the library contains 400 games with about half of

these in circulation each week. .

The privilege of borrowing
is an incentive which teaches
the children to take the pro—
per care of the toys taken
from' the library. The child
learns to be careful of pos-
sessions, and to respect the
the property rights of others.

(Continued on page 277)

Some had

A Community Meets Youth's Problems

ROVE CITY is a western

Pennsylvania community of

7,000 population made up

of people representing a cross sec-

tion of the American population, the predominat-

ing stock being of Scotch and Irish descent with

a representation of English, German, Italian, and

Swedish. There are a few Negroes living in the
city.

There is a variation of religious faiths, with
Protestants in the majority. The people take pride
in their churches and have spent over a million
dollars for church facilities. The schools are
modern, and much time and thought have gone
into building and equipping modern plants. The
control of the schools is vested in a school board
elected by the citizens. The schools are well staff-

ed, and modern, up-to-date methods are used. The '

school population is large in comparison with other
cities of its size. There are few people on relief,
and the number is constantly growing smaller.

The city government consists of a Borough
Council headed by a burgess, and the borough
maintains a borough secretary and engineer. The
electric and power plant is owned by the citizens.
Adequate parks and playgrounds are provided
under borough management.

The main industry, the manufacture of Diesel
engines, employs 1,600 men. Other industries in-
clude the manufacture of hand forged aluminum
and automobile bodies. In the surrounding terri-
tory there are large fruit and truck farming
interests.

There is in the community a Liberal Arts Col-
lege, a coeducational, nonsectarian institution,
with 925 students enrolled. It is financed mainly
j by interested friends. There are several service
clubs including the Rotary,

Kiwanis, and Commercial

By JAMES C. LOVELESS
Department of Athletics
Grove City College

are in school for the most part a
little longer than the average in
other communities of the same
size. There is very little work for
them to do. A recent study made by the author °
in cooperation with the Superintendent of Schools
shows that the chief types of work done by ado-
lescents are carrying papers, staying with younger
children, and mowing lawns. Vocational guidance
for youth is a field in which the community has
some interested groups. The Rotary and Kiwanis
Clubs have made several attempts to encourage
more of this phase of education.

Recreation and leisure-time activities are pro-
moted by the schools during the school terms.
Very little, however, had been done before the
present plan was initiated to meet the needs of
youth for recreation during the summer months.

A survey of the problems of youth in the com-
munity showed a definite need for a summer rec-
reation program. Students of adolescent age were
discontented and were looking to outside commer-
cial sources for recreation. Many showed lack of
purpose; some were delinquents; gangs were in
evidence; and gambling among certain groups was
uncovered. The community had a live group of
young Americans who needed leadership and
guidance.

The Citizens Take a Hand

The citizens, our study showed, realized the
situation, and there was keen interest in providing
recreation for the summer months. There was no
one private organization financially able to carry
such a program. Neither the borough nor the city
schools had money in their budgets for such an
undertaking. It was our belief that the people

themselves would supply the
necessary funds, and when

 

Club, and there is a Women’s
Club. The American Legion,
as well as other organizations,
. is active and interested in
- civic affairs. i

II

The Youth of the
Community

The youth of the commu-
nity, as has been suggested,

There are still many communities in this
country which have not as yet organized
recreation programs for their youth. And
so it seems desirable. from time to time.
to tell in Recreation the story of how a
small community hereI a larger city there;
has gone about the task of providing rec-
reation for its citizens. The story of
Grove City. Pennsylvania. is that of a
small community which has built its pro-
gram almost entirely on volunteer leader-
ship and with exceedingly limited funds.

newspaper officials, interested
from the beginning, presented
the idea to the public there
was a satisfactory response.

A committee known as the
Community Recreation Com-
mittee was organized with
representatives from inter-

ested organizations such as
the Women’s Club, the

245

246 A COMMUNITY MEETS YOUTH’S PROBLEMS

Chamber of Commerce, American Legion, Kiwanis
and Rotary Clubs, the Public School Board and
the Borough Council. The burgess and the di-
rector of the program were also members of the
committee.

From the beginning the policy of the committee
was to carry on no pressure drives for funds.
Through the newspapers and the different or-
' ganizations every individual was given an oppor-
tunity to make a contribution. The response to the
.appeal for fUnds was very gratifying. Enough
money was voluntarily contributed to provide for
equipment, materials, and other items on the
program.

We were now ready to start. The program was
announced to the public, and active participation
began.

The Facilities

The problem of providing adequate play space
and equipment had to be solved before the pro-
gram could be initiated. One high school athletic
tield was available. The high school plant con-
tained one' small storage building large enough for
limited handcraft work and a ping-pong table, a
running track, jumping pits, two outdoor basket-
ball courts, one tennis court, a football field, a
separate space large enough for a playground ball
field, sand boxes, one slide, one set of rings, and
six swings.

The municipal park provided additional facili-
ties—one baseball diamond, four tennis courts, an
outdoor swimming pool 150 by 50 feet, picnic
grounds accommodating 1,500 people, ten miles of
hiking trails, and a lagoon for fly casting 300 feet
long. Two school playgrounds were developed

with swings, building blocks, volleyball courts,
slides, and sand pits.

Six vacant lots, approximately 200 by 300 feet,
were used as playgrounds, their use having been
given by real estate owners and the Borough
Council. Three additional outdoor basketball
courts were added, located in the different wards
in the city.

The Borough Council and Park Board were
most helpful in putting the playgrounds in shape
for use. Such work as surveying, grading, rolling,
and building backstops was done by the borough
workmen at little cost to the Recreation Committee.

Leadership

Leadership was provided almost entirely by vol—
unteers. The director of the program who formu-
lated the plan gave his services, as did interested
citizens. The NYA aided. The only workers re-
ceiving remuneration for their services were those
supervising the playgrounds for the children up
to ten years of age and the workers on NYA.

Umpires for softball games were selected from
citizens who were interested in the program and
who had had some past experience either as play—
ers or umpires. These umpires had their own or-
ganization. They held meetings, studied rules,
decided upon protests, assigned officials for games,
and made suggestions to improve the sport. The
umpires were in complete charge of the games
while they were in progress.

Organization of Activities

In order that no age group should be slighted,
the program was classified under four divisions:
primary, intermediate, junior, and senior. A part
of the program follows.

 

 

SUMMER CALENDAR OF ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

DESIGNATION UNDER TEN Boys 10-14
Inspection of apparatus Post bulletins—check for young
Week Post bulletins—announcements photographers
JUNE 3 1. Free play on apparatus, sand box, Paddle tennis
unorganized activities 'Free play activities
ORGANIZATION Organize for swimming hour Check for swimming hour
OF Storytelling Playground ball teams

Hiking—natu re study
Running games

PLAY PROGRAM

9‘5"???"

.ncdcling

 

Running games, relays
Choose handcraft project

Start work on stuffed dolls and clay

I

A COMMUNITY MEETS YOUTH’S PROBLEMS 247

 

 

DESIGNATION UNDER TEN—(Continued) BOYS 10-14—( Continued)
Inspection Safety show—use bicycles
Week Check bulletin boards Instruction in goal-hi .
, JUNE 10 . Safety show Playground ball team
1' Ball games Explain badge test
BADGE TEST Net ball, pass volleyball Check up on swimming hour
SWIMMING Singing games
Complete work on stuffed dolls
Story hour

Check swimming hour

 

 

Apparatus—bulletins Playground ball games
Week Relay races Goal-hi games
JUNE 17 Circle games Model airplane demonstrations
Picture cutting, clay Table tennis
{ TREASURE HUNT Hiking, nature study
COMPETITION Treasure hunt
WEEK Picnic with the mothers at city park
, Apparatus—bulletins Badge tests on alternate days
Week Singing . Athletic league activities on other days
s JUNE 24 Sand box models Prepare for track and bicycle carnival
Inform-a1 play
ATHLETIC Dancing games
\VEEK Story hour
Free period Track and bicycle carnival
Week Patriotic games Baseball rounders
JULY 1 Jumping games Playground ball
PATRIOTIC Net ball play Goal-hi, swimming
WEEK Hikes Tests for pushmobile

Get ready for stilt races

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DESIGNATION. GIRLS 10-14 BOYS 14-17
Paddle tennis Tennis
Week Free play League games—playground ball
JUNE 3 Check for swimming hour Begin handcraft work
Rope skipping Swimming
ORGANIZATION Hopscotch Garden inspection
0F Gar-den club Garden club meeting
PLAY PROGRAM Jacks Scout activity
Week Saftey show Paddle tennis tournament
JUNE 10 Tennis Tennis
Volleyball Playground ball league organized
BADGE TEST Recheck for swimming hour Badge tests
SWIMMING Badge efficiency tests Swimming
Week Volleyball Horseshoes
JUNE 17 Doll making Playground ball
Mushball Model airplane demonstration
TREASURE HUNT Paddle tennis Paddle tennis continues
COMPETITION Swimming

Relays

 

 

248 A COMMUNITY IMEETS YOUTH’S PROBLEMS
DESIGNATION GIRLS 10-14—( Continued) BOYS 14-17—(Continued)
Badge efliciency tests on alternate days Prepare for bicycle carnival
Week with games Badge tests
JUNE 24 ' Doll fair (prizes) ‘ Paddle tennis finals
Prepare for bicycle carnival Volleyball
ATHLETIC Hike Goal-hi
WEEK Nature study Playground ball
Baseball rounders
Check on pushmobiles
Track and bicycle carnival Track and bicycle carnival
Week Mushball Tests for pushmobiles
JULY 1 Goal-hi Get ready for stilt races
Swimming Playground ball
PATRIOTIC Scrapbooks Scout activities
WEEK Games (darts, croquet, jacks, etc.) Baseball game with out-of-town team
Mixed doubles in tennis
Tennis tournament begins Baseball 1
Mushball free play Speedball
Week Swimming Handcraft
JULY 8 Badge tests , Swimming ‘
Scrapbooks continued Playground ball league
Stink base l
Paddle tennis finals :
DESIGNATION GIRLS 14-17 SENIORS
Track and bicycle carnival Softball
Week Archery Tennis championships
JULY 1 Tennis, mixed doubles Horseshoes
Baseball
Puppets Softball
Week Swimming Horseshoes
JULY 8 Complete mixed doubles tennis Fly casting
Scrapbooks
Single tennis begins
Complete puppets for shows Softball
Week Exhibits Horseshoes
JULY 15 Tennis tournament Fly casting
Bicycle hike and picnic
Tennis championships Softball
Week Hobby day Horseshoes
JULY 22 Puppet displays
I Swimming
Week Badge test winners Softball
JULY 29 Tennis awards
Swimming
Week Swimming carnival Championships
AUGUST 5 Social evening Softball

' Informal dance

The Results

The program, an experiment in the beginning,
has developed into a permanent plan, and it has
gained enough support so that it may possibly be
extended throughout the year. The activities have
been enjoyable to many who are not actual par-

ticipants. During the finals of the junior and
senior softball league championships as many as
2,500 people enjoyed the games, and over 11,000
people watched the games and other activities
during the season.

(Continued on page 278)

The Minstrel ot the Appalachians

s A VISITOR to Asheville’s Mountain Dance and

A Folk Festival goes Up the ramp into the

grandstand, he hears contented laughter, a
tapping of feet in time to fiddle music which has
already started. Across the field, Beaucatcher
mountain makes a proper and enfolding backdrop.

On the field is a large, wooden stage, railed and
canvas-topped.

A man—short, energetic, black-haired, middle-
agedu—starts to make an announcement. From
somewhere in the stands, there is a lone yell:

“Hey, Bascom! Sing ‘Cindy’ !”

Bascom Lamar Lunsford, the director, tries to
go on.

“Hey, Bascom! Sing ‘Cindy’l”

. A quick glance in the general direction of the
disturber. He is a burly fellow—big, tanned,
coatless, quarter-seas over in honor of the festi-
val. Bascom can’t see all that from his place on
the stage, so on with the announcement.

I “Hey, Bascom! SING ‘CINDY’ l”

Bascom says, “I’ll sing for you in a minute.”
l He speaks softly, as always. Then, there he is,
‘ one foot on a chair, banjo on knee, and a lift of
~ his head toward his heckler. But it isn’t “Cindy”!

“I’m as free a little bird as I can he,” sings

. Bascom, absent-mindedly,
"I’m as free a little bird as I can :be;
I’ll build my nest in the hollow of a tree
Where the bad boys can never bother me.”

That’s all. Not a sound.
Then a roar of laughter
goes up. Everyone turns
triumphantly toward the
Cindy—man. It’s wasted.
He’s laughing, too. He
made Bascom sing, all
right, all right!

Bascom Lunstord in the
house on his I00 acre
farm on South Turkey
Creek where a warm
welcome awaits neigh-
bors and other visitors

 

By GEORGE W. MCCOY
State News Editor
The Citizen and The Times
Asheville. North Carolina

That is Bascom Lamar Lunsford, in his sum-
mer Hannels and his dark coat, in the right places
at the right time, unobtrusive when the show is
on. He seems to be everywhere at once on festi-
val nights. He has time to greet old friends be-
hind the scenes. He makes the main announce-
ments, tells something of the story of an ages-old
English ballad before he leads to the microphone

an old, old man to sing verse after verse of that
ballad.

Time was, in the earlier years of the festival,
when the audience grew tired of the many verses
and the queer, minor quavers of the ancient song.
But Lunsford knew the value and beauty of what
he brotight. By gesture of expressive hand, by the
lift of a dark eyebrow, or a flash from his eyes,
he taught the people that they were missing some-
thing good, there here was age—of man and of
song—to be appreciated and applauded.

An elderly man steps spryly across the boards
and sits before the public address microphone.
“Fiddlin’ Bill!” calls an announcer, and the grand-
stand echoes to the tap—tap of the universal foot.

 .o:

Photo by Frank lodfetter

249

250 THE MINSTREL OF THE APPALACHIANS

There is clapping, whistling,
calling: “Play it again! Play
Sourwood Mountain

But Lunsford has other plans.
As if by magic, chairs and mikes
disappear from the platform.
From the crowd around the stage emerges a group
with hddles, banjos, guitars. The director faces
the audience and raises his arms in a familiar and
compelling gesture for silence. Formally, he greets
the people and announces rules for judging of
dance teams and string bands.

“And now—ladies and gentlemen—the Spooks
Branch team!”

The exhilarating music starts, fiddler on his feet,
leading with his head and with his swaying violin.
And up they come onto the stage, pair by pair,
sixteen mountain folks, dancing as they come.
Shuff, shuff, stamp, stamp—the rhythm fills the
valley. Through the intricate figures they swing—
“Open and Shut the Garden Gate,” “Cage Your
Little Red Bird,” “Building Up the King’s High-
way,” “Swing Grandpa Then Swing Grandma.”
You forget where you are; you are tapping; your
neighbor is tapping; the caller shouts, as he
dances, “Swing your partner!”

There are no calico dresses on the dancers, no
home—made jeans. They look like everyday folks,
and they are—folks having the time of their lives,
just as they would have if they were in their
homes or schools. But right now they are sharing
that good time, proud of their skill, proud of the
enthusiasm of the crowd that rises to roar its
praise as the dancers move off the stage in per-
fect time.

Five hundred performersare here for the three—
night festival this year, rand five thousand specta—
tors jam the stands each night. And are they all
mountain folks coming to watch relatives and
neighbors? No, though they are here, too. At a
call for “visitors” nearly half the audience stands.
Those standing are from out of the state or from
Eastern North Carolina, seaward from the Pied—

mont region.

,On a spring day in 1928, Basom Lamar Luns-
ford stood looking from his windows of his law
office in an old, red brick building on Asheville’s
public square. He watched the busy scene and
heard all the confusion of the city, rising and fall-
ing with the hours. His mind was not on these
nor on the legal cases which the days or weeks

might bring.

The Mountain Folk FestivalI an an-
nual event which has been held for
l» the past fourteen years in Ashe-

villeI North Carolina, will be pre-
sented in I94| on July 24, 25, 26.

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  

He thought of the days when
he went to school near South
Turkey Creek. He thought with
particular delight of a time when
he was seven years old. Up be-
hind his father on old Charley,
the faithful family horse, he rode forty miles to
visit great-uncle Osborne Deaver at the Forks of
Ivy. That was not far from Mars Hill College on
whose campus he was born on March 21, 1882,
the youngest son and fifth child in the family.
Uncle Osborne was a great fiddler of the old
school, and many a time Bascom had heard his
mother humming or singing some of the old songs
which, she said, were Uncle Osborne’s tunes.

What an experience for a child! He saw his
aged uncle take his precious violin from its black,
wooden case, draw the bow across the catgut, and I
glide sweetly into some of the old favorites whichli
the child could recognize. '

With real enthusiasm, after that trip, Bascomi
and his ten year old brother, Blackwell, made .
fiddles from cigar boxes and played and played '
until the neighbors said that surely the Lunsford.
boys had caught some young crows; and their
father, in desperation, straightway bought them
real fiddles.

That was the hrst layer, Bascom mused, of hisl
musical layer cake, in which school and work
were the necessary fillers. The other ingredients
were varied: Bean—stringin’s, butter-stirrin’s,l
candy-breakin’s, shuckin’s, log-rollin’s, quiltin’s,
house—raisin’s, square dances, shoe arounds, and
shindigs. At these gatherings he and the other
young folks would exchange “song—ballets,” as,
today, they swap postage stamps or match—covers.
He’d always had a good memory, so how his store 5
of songs grew!

But there was work to be done, and soon he ,
became traveling salesman for a nursery company.
into the remote sections of the mountains he went
on horseback or by horse and buggy. He learned
the valleys with their liquid names: Cheoah, Ste-
coah, Hiawassee, Tusquitee, Nantahala and
Cartoogechaye. Into the communities of Gum
Log, Hightower, Shooting Creek and Bear Meat
he went with his fruit trees and other nursery
stock. Everywhere there was hospitality for the
“fruit agent.” After supper he would always
share in their songs and ballad feasts.

Nearly everything he had done—as nursery
agent, apiarist, teacher of English and history at
Rutherford College, as country editor and lawyer

THE MINSTREL OF THE APPALACHIANS 251

——had only given him more contacts and wider
opportunities to make friends among the moun-
tain people and to deepen his appreciation of the
richness of folk balladry. It was while he was in
college that he had begun giving informal talks
on folk lore and songs, doing it at first in fear and
trembling, accompanying himself on the banjo as
he sang “Swannanoa Tunnel” or “The Lass of
Rock Royal.” What delight when the program
went over!

That had been the beginning of a series of such
recitals which had taken him to schools and clubs

‘ from that day to this, and which had gradually
‘ earned him his title as “Minstrel of the Appala-

chians.” Audiences had been more than apprecia-

’ tive. They had gleaned for him many an ancient
I ballad or song from their families’ memories or

from treasured files in old scrapbooks. That was

how he had collected his treasure-trove of folk '

material; in his memory, on faded manuscript, in
notebooks neatly typed by cooperative students,
proud that their families were possessors of a
goodly folk heritage.

But to what use was he putting this wealth of
folk knowledge? Here he stood, looking from his
office windows, and he was not doing what he
wanted to do.

He knew that the long-time isolated coves and
valleys of Southern Appalachia were the chief
stronghold in America of the purest Anglo—Saxon
folk music and dancing. But would they remain
so? Even as he stood there, changes were taking
place. This fortress of tradition and individualism
was being assailed and the folk arts threatened
with strangulation as paved highways penetrated
the fastnesses, jazz blared over the radio, and all
the gadgets of modern life were swarming in,
bringing with them their pattern of uniformity.

There came a realization that the ballad and
folk dance forms would die of civilization if in-
terested persons did not act. He saw at last that
his highland ancestry, his environment, and his
training—all his interests—had been leading him
to but one decision—he must devote himself to
preserving and interpreting these folk arts.

In June of that same year, 1928, Lunsford

organized and presented the mountain dance and
folk festival, as one of the attractions of Ashe-
ville’s first annual Rhododendron Festival.

In planning the festival, which he hoped would
become the chief outlet for the balladry and folk
dancing indigenous to the Appalachians, Lunsford

had two principal problems: he must catch and
hold the interest of the public, and he must secure
the cooperation of mountain singers and dancers.

The first problem proved to be no problem at
all. When the program was presented the spec-
tators were enthusiastic, and interest has grown
until the festival has become nationally renowned.

For an outlander, the second problem would
have been almost insurmountable. The ..highland-
ers have a dignified restraint which makes them
reticent about making a display of themselves.

But Bascom Lunsford was not starting from
scratch. He had danced with them, played his
banjo and his fiddle and his guitar with them, and
when he carried the word that there was going to
be a new kind of get-together in Asheville, they
responded as Scottish clansmen would have
answered the call of their chief.

The first folk festival’s success was so great
that the next year it was held in August as a
separate event, but still for only one night. In
1930, it lasted two nights, and since then has been
a three-night affair, drawing ever-increasing num-
bers of visitors, among whom are outstanding
folk authorities.

First in numbers on his program are the twelve
or more square dance teams of eight couples each,
with names remindful of the picturesque sections
from which they come: Piney Mountain, Bee
Tree, Little River, Great Smoky Mountains, Soco
Gap, and Pigeon Valley. Each dance team has its
favorite string band.

Within the last few years a junior square dance
contest has been a feature. One of the teams was
organized by Lunsford’s youngest daughter, Jo.

Foremost among individuals who perform be-
tween square dance numbers are Samantha Baum-
garner, Fiddlin’ Bill Hensley, and Ozzie Helton,
who have appeared at every festival. Both Fid—
dlin’ Bill and Ozzie claim to be the world’s.
champion mountain fiddler. Each year Bascom
engineers a little contest for the two old men.
Each year the audience carefully measures its ap-
plause, and Bascom declares the contest tied.

The audience has learned to love the old bal-
lads, all the way from “hard-hearted Barb’r’y
Ellen” to “The Farmer’s Curst Wife,” who was
so wicked that the devil packed her off to hell

where she caused so much trouble that

Seven little devils went scaling ’round the wall,
Saying, “Take her out, Dad, she’s a-goin’ to kill us all.”

(Continued on page 278)

 

Chicago Presents Pageantry in_ the Parks

LL THROUGH the summer of 1940 pageantry
A was actively carried on in the Chicago Park
District by the Division of Recreation. Al-
though many more of the I36 parks under Park
District supervision were involved in the staging
of pageants, the actual presentations were made
in thirteen. Average attendance from June 7 to
the last performance on September 19th, was
2,500, with an estimated total of 32,500. There
were nine productions of A Midsummer Night’s
Dream, two of Cinderella, and one of Aladdin.
- In order to understand how the varying facili—
ties of the parks were adapted to outdoor pageants
its might be well to visualize a characteristic per-
formance of A Midsummer Night’s Dream. The
place was a natural outdoor theater in Columbus
Park on Chicago’s west side. The play was pre-
sented by adults and children of the community
served by Columbus Park, and was acted in pan-
tomime while several persons off-stage read the
lines over a public address system which was
synchronized with the movements of the panto-
mimists. This matter of having a double cast
would seem exceedingly diflicult, but the timing of
action to the words of the narrators is achieved
more effectively and easily than '
one would suppose. '
A musical setting furnished by
phonograph records continued
throughout the performance which
lasted an hour and a quarter.
Naturally music from Mendels-
sohn’s Midsummer Night’s Dream
was used, augmented by De-
bussy’s Afternoon of a Faun and
Clouds. Four ballets were ar-
ranged against a background of

"A Midsummer Night's

Dream" was very effec-
tively presented last
summer in the natural
outdoor theater in Co-
lumbus Park, Chicago

252

By W. J. HIGGINS

Dramatics Supervisor
Chicago Park District

phonograph records using a movement from
Tschaikowsky’s Nutcracker Suite, Debussy’s
Festivals and the Music Box. Bottom’s comedy
dance with the fairies was set to the music of The
Penguin.

The program, held in the evening, began with
special lights flooding the natural theater. Instead
of painted scenery the audience saw nature’s
handiwork of shrubbery, trees, and rocks. There
were wings and other stage devices which aided
the actors to make quick entrances and exits, yet
the players often walked down the several long

 

 

 

paths of liagstone directly to the stage. The gen- '

eral effect was lovely and particularly appropri-
ate because, of course, the setting is supposed to
be a garden near the palace of the Duke of Athens.

Players were in Elizabethan costumes. Just
below the stage and the footlights, which were

t”

a!
'.

U.

dig—kw—

 

i
l
l
l
l
'i

 

masked with small shrubs, a creek separated the
audience from the players. With the Duke’s gar-
den in mind, the creek was readily idealized into a
moat. Occasionally some of the actors’ images
were reflected on the water, adding to the pictur-
esqueness of the scene.

A large meadow sloping upward from the stage
afforded a svlvan orchestra circle, parquet, gal-
leries and boxes. Spectators brought camp stools
and cushions and witnessed the performance in
complete comfort.

Unfortunately not all parks are equipped as is

Columbus Park with natural outdoor amphithea- -

ters, but pageantry must go on even if a ball field
is called upon to “pinch hit” for a theater! In such
an instance it has been found that a background
of scenery seven feet high is necessary. That
height has proved adequate to mask the players
when off—stage and is easier to handle than any-

thing higher; it also offers less temptation to play--
‘ful winds.

Much success has met the Chicago Park Dis-
trict’s experiments with pageants using either a
double cast of actors and narrators or with only
one narrator to interpret the pantomime. It has
been found, however, that the story is the essen-
tial thing, and that the audience must hear that
story delivered clearly and effectively. With com-
petent direction, pantomime takes care of itself.

The Arabian Nights tale, Aladdin, made a
delightful pageant with its colorful oriental at-

 

Many of the l36 parks at Chicago had a
part in last summer's pageantry program
in which there were twelve productions

mosphere enhanced by a musical background of
Rimsky-Korsakow’s Scheherazade. Cinderella was
done very effectively in colonial costumes. Johann
Strauss’ waltzes were used for the gay moods
while movements from Schubert’s Unfinished
Symphony served for the more sombre passages.

Readers of RECREATION interested in pageantry
may wish to be reminded of other articles on the
subject which have appeared in the magazine. We
are listing a few of the more important ones:

Pageantry on the Playground (May, 1940). A
few examples of two types of pageants presented
on playgrounds in cities throughout the country——
historical pageants, and fantasies and fairy tales.

When the Finale [3 a Pageant (May, 1938). An
article summarizing a number of playground pag-
eants given by recreation departments. All of
these pageants are adaptable for use by public
recreation groups in other cities.

The Magic Dell (April, 1938). A festival in Los
Angeles bringing to a close a season of playground
events and making use of the abilities developed
through plays, dances, music, handcraft and other

activities which had been con-

ducted on the playgrounds.

Producing the Playground Pag-
eant, by Jack Stuart Knapp
(August, 1936). Practical sug-
gestions are offered on methods
to be used in planning, writing,
organizing, and producing a play-
ground pageant. A pageant out-

line is also included for the story
of Rip Van Winkle.

The play's setting and
cast iust prior to the
presentation by the
tradesmen of the "most
lamentable comedy of
Pyramus and Thisbe"

253

What They Say About Recreation

N NOW YOU WHAT it is to be a child? It is to
K be something very different from the man.

. . . It is to be so little that the elves can reach

to whisper in your ear; it is to turn pumpkins into
coaches, and mice into horses, lowness into lofti-
ness, and nothing into everything, for each child
has its fairy godmother in its soul.”—Francis

Thompson.

“The conservation of our natural resources and
our physical resources would be of no avail if
there were not men and women, boys and girls to
make use of them and benefit from them. Conse-
quently, any conservation program must include
the conservation of our human resources because
our resources have value only when they enable
our people to enjoy a more'rich and fuller life.”—
From Florida Parks and Recreation.

“If I had to write a motto over the portals of
leisure I would do it in three words—skill, cul—
ture, beauty—and I would call the whole the

House of Joy.”—Dr. L. P. Jacks.

“Many of the virtues we are now so anxious to
promote in order to increase our ability to resist
aggression are also peace time virtues. If it is
wise to strengthen the value of our man power for
war, is it not doubly important for us to be no less
interested in these things for better and fuller
living in a peaceful, democratic society P”-—Dr. A.
5. Lamb, President, Montreal Parks and Play-

grounds Association, Incorporated.

“The child who lies on his back and watches the
interplay of light and shadow on the background
of clouds and sky, who later shares this experi-
ence with an understanding adult, has had a work—
out in the gymnasium of fancy.” — Josephine

Blackstock.

“The future character of the American people
and of their civilization will no doubt depend as
much on the results of recreational pursuits as on
organized recreation, . . . Recreation meets a great

need in individuals, and in meeting it helps to '

build interests and form a personality. . .' . Work—
ers in this sphere cannot any longer be regarded

254

as purveyors of amusement, but must be seen as
persons who are moulders of our future society.”—

G. M. Gloss in The Schools and Recreation,
“Louisiana Schools.”

“Recreation is life enrichment. Unless it is
characterized by personal enjoyment it ceases to
have recreative value. Usually it consists of do—
ing something that is purposeful yet unrewarded
except in the satisfactions achieved. What may
be work to some people may be recreation to
others. For the most part, recreation comprises
those activities which are enjoyed during leisure
hours.”—From Educational Policies for C ornmu-
nity Recreation.

“Any social order is in peril when it fails to
achieve the active, successful, and enthusiastic
participation of youth. . . . The youth and children
of America literally are the strength of tomorrow.
What is done for them now will be repaid many
fold and that at no distant date.”—Next Steps in
National Policy for Youth, American Youth Com—
mission.

“Play manifests itself in dramatization, art, and
physical activity which includes manipulation of
materials. It draws on a multitude of experiences,
emotions, and thoughts. In children’s play their
universe is reflected; through it they experiment
with the world they know and with their emotional
reactions to it.”—Clara Lambert in Play: A Y ard-
stich of Growth.

“A well—planned program of recreation will help
provide opportunities for satisfactions in develop-
ing skills—manual, mental, physical, spiritual and
social.”———R. Bruce Tom in Program Helps.

“The advantages accruing from sports, or
music, or arts, or mechanics, or gardening are not
by any means the monopoly of record-breakers;
the amateur may have the lion’s share of benefit
and pleasure. That word ‘amateur’ is a good one
to keep in mind; it means one who plies the art or
plays the game? for the love of it, and it’s the love
that brings the values out.”—W. I. Cameron,
speaking on Sports on the Ford Sunday Evening
Hour, April 27, 1941.

 

 

Handcrafts and the Museum  ‘:::::::::::: i=-

By MARGARET E. WHITE

The Newark Museum, through its

textile exhibit, has shown that

peOple are becoming increasingly

craft-conscious, and that they are

eager to know the "how" and
"why" of things

spread rapidly in the past few years. In the

environs of Newark, New Jersey, many peo-
ple, both men and women, are giving lessons in
‘spinning and hand loom weaving or, with looms
set up in their own homes, are weaving for pleas-
ure and profit.

Recognizing this widespread interest in the
craft, the Newark Museum in 1937 arranged a
textile exhibit. The Museum has always given
sympathetic encouragement to hobbyists as far as
its funds would permit. Its founder and first di-
rector, John Cotton Dana, was himself a hobby-
ist who loved to work at his printing press or
carpenter's bench. He believed that through the
activities and exhibits of a museum individuals of
all ages should be encouraged to develop their own
peculiar aptitudes and to know the joy of creating.

The weaving craft has long been of interest to
New Jersey where textile manufacture is an
outstanding industry. 80 the exhibition was ar-
ranged to tell the story of textile production as
developed from primitive times and by peoples of
many lands. In planning the exhibit, craftsman-
ship, the implements used, the various methods of
producing design were as carefully considered as
were the finished fabrics.

ACTIVE INTEREST in spinning and weaving has

Early Examples of the Art

The earliest examples were Egyptian fragments
and pre-Columbian pieces from Peru. The weaves
of primitive peoples were accompanied by models
of looms when possible, otherwise diagrams were
included. Explanatory labels were used freely.
Raw materials employed in the making and dye-
ing of fabrics gave a picture of the origin of our
textile industry. These were shown with the fin-

  

'r
I
an. on. out“: 38,; ¢

snosnclurff O
W,

- a n n s d m ~ I " .
*

3M. an! ens-=4" '

V»
' 

'0'
Jr:

-". ‘II VI.

. 4‘

.-c~¢..,

Courtesy of the Newark Museum

ished products : for example, strands of cedar bark
wrapped with wool which form the warp of a
Chilkat blanket; piiia or pineapple fibre from the
Philippines; marguey fibre and llama wool from
Peru. For dyes there were specimens of alder and
hemlock bark, ground lichen, copper, walnut shells
and twigs, pine gum, lampblack, sumac, madder
and ground indigo. Velvets, printed cottons,
European peasant weaves, filmy muslins from
India, figured silks and gold brocades all told their
part of the story.

One section of the exhibit was devoted to early
American spinning and weaving. Here were
shown a flax brake and a swingling knife and
block with which the staff demonstrated the pre—
paration of fiax for spinning. Wool cards and
hetchels were also included, together with flax and
wool wheels, clock reels, 3. quilling wheel, and
other tools of the craft. A harness loom of 1800
and a Jacquard loom of 1850 stood in the middle
of the Hoor so that groups might watch closely
the demonstrations in weaving. On the walls hung
homespun handwoven coverlets, the pride of every
housewife. Narrow tapes and ribbons were shown
with the small table looms on which they were
made. There were examples of bed and table

255

256 HANDCRAFTS AND THE MUSEUM

linen woven by every girl as part of her wedding
outfit. A series of charts showed the basic types
of weave to be found in textiles throughout the
exhibit. '

In assembling this early American section, a
vivid mental picture had first to be made of how
the early weaver worked at loom and wheel. Two
members of the staff had been so fortunate as to
watch the Tennessee mountain women at work in
their homes. A visit was paid to the weaving loft
at Wiggins Old Tavern in Northampton, Massa-
chusetts. From New Hampshire came a delight-
ful description of a loom room still in existence—
a dim and dusty garret lighted by one small win-
dow, where stands a Hoor loom of the 1700’s with
bobbin frame, niddy noddy, sleys and other para-
phernalia.

Many Visitors Come

School classes were brought by their teachers
expressly to see the textile exhibit. Children came
from as far away as Manhasset, Long Island. The
classes were conducted through the exhibit by
staff members, who illustrated their talks with
demonstrations and gave the historic background
of textiles—always a dramatic story of spindle and
loom, of caravan route through Turkistan and
Persia, of China’s jealously guarded silk industry
and her monopoly of the “great silk ways,” of
Marco Polo, the Conquistadores and our Puritan
ancestors. The children loved it and often re-
turned after school bringing members of their
families with them. One group of boys were so
interested in a vertical Navaho loom that after
taking measurements and notes they constructed
and warped a similar loom as part of their class
work.

Each afternoon for an hour or more a member
of the staff demonstrated to visitors the manipu-
lation of wheel and loom. Special discussions were
held on the looms of primitive peoples and the
methods of dyeing yarns. In the section where
painted, dyed and printed fabrics were displayed,
demonstrations were given in hand block printing
and batik, and there was opportunity for actual
practice.

A blind weaver came by special appointment to
“see” the exhibit. He explained to the young
woman who conducted him around that he had a
flax wheel in need of repair. He had never before
been able to feel a spinning wheel that was in pro-
per running order, but after examining those in
the exhibit he believed he could fix his own so it

would operate. He was also interested in the
Jacquard loom which, being smaller and simpler
than those in a modern factory, made it possible
for him to grasp the details of construction and
operation.

Visitors came from upstate New York, from
Nova Scotia, the West and South. They included
collectors, students of weaving, factory operators,
designers, sales people. The staff was besieged
with questions as to where to buy looms and yarn,
where to take lessons in weaving, what books
were recommended for beginners in the craft. A
reference file was kept for inquirers. A list of
books used by the staff in preparing the exhibit
was printed for free distribution.

When the exhibit finally closed at the end of a
year, letters began coming from school teachers,
instructors and amateur weavers in all parts of
the country asking that the section on spinning
and weaving be repeated.

In January, 1940, Early American Spinning
and W'eaw'ng was reopened to the public. Having
read in the local papers of the forthcoming ex-
hibit, visitors arrived before the installation was
completed. One such visitor was in charge of a
CCC camp and was arranging to give the young
men instructions in weaving. Finding himself con-
fronted with certain problems, he had driven over
a hundred miles to get help from the person in
charge of the exhibit. Needless to say, all possible
assistance was given him. Two other special visit-
ors were a man and his wife from Florida, both
weavers. They said they had visited museums all
over the country in an attempt to study early
weaving tools and looms. Only in Newark and at
the Smithsonian Institute had they found ex-
hibits that told the complete story, visualizing step
by step the preparation of raw flax and wool, the
spinning and winding of thread into skeins, and
the weaving of the finished product.

One day a woman telephoned to say that she
was an invalid confined to her home and had taken
up weaving as a hobby. Not only was she learn-
ing to weave, but also she wanted to collect all the
small equipment connected with the craft. Her
collecting would have to be done by mail or
through the help of friends, but would the Mu-
seum tell her what manner of objects she should
look for. An outline of the exhibit was sent to
her together with a list of such books on weaving
as included discussion of hand looms and equip-
ment.

(Continued on page 275)

l
l

 

"Life in the wilderness is not all a
grim and constant battle between
the forces of life and death. There
often come times of relaxation. of
playfulness. of airy ioyI of drolleryl
and of the spirit of festival and
fiesta. And it is then that nature
may be said to doff her somber
garb to don her cap and bells.'I

By
ARCHIBALD RUTLEDGE

Courtesy Our Dumb Animals

Nature Dons l-ler Cap
and Bells

HILE WE ARE accustomed to admire the order,
Wbeauty and mysterious continuance of na-

ture; and while most of the aspects of the
behavior of nature’s children engage our interest
and endear them to us, yet there is one feature of
their lives that is rarely considered, even though
in many respects it is the most Winsome and ap-

‘ pealing: I mean their merriment, their fun, the

happy pastimes they have, the innocent abandon
of their joy.
It is strange that this aspect of wildlife should

* have escaped even casual ob—

servers; for, as a general
thing, any one in his garden,
or in the woods or field can
both hear and see evidences
of it. I know that I rarely
go abroad without detecting
the sight or the sound of
some harlequinade. And it is
very heartening to know that

Recreation has published many articles
on the play of man. but has sadly neg-
lected the play of animals. Never be-
fore. however. has so delightful an arti-
cle on the subiect presented itself as
this description. published through the
courtesy of the American Forests,
May I940 issue. We regret that lack
of space has necessitated the omission
of a few of Mr. Rutledge's examples.

there is much more of it than one would suppose.
Life in the wilderness is not all a struggle for
existence, a grim and constant battle between the
forces of life and death. There often come times
of relaxation, of playfulness, of airy joy, of drol-
lery, and of the spirit of festival and fiesta. And
it is then that nature may be said to doff her sober
garb to don her cap and bells.

Late one December afternoon I made my way
through the dusky semi—tropical woods of a sea-
island toward the beach, guided less by the dim
pathway than by the soft thunder of the surf
ahead. While I was in the forest, a deep twilight
had fallen; but when I emerged from the woods
of oak and pine and palmettoes, the whole world
was suffused with a radiant afterglow that lighted
the ocean, the far sweep of the island’s fairy
shores, and the deep woodland out of which I had
come. On this island the deer
lurk in the coverts all day;
and at sundown they come
forth to feed on the marshes
of the interior. But on this
particular evening, some of
them, at least, apparently had
no thought of feeding. Hid-
den in a dense cluster of
myrtles on the crest of a

257

258 NATURE DONS HER CAP AND BELLS

commanding dune, I saw certain delicate forms
come stealing out of the fading woods. Five I
counted; then ten; then sixteen. And all were
trooping toward the beach, where certainly no
dinner awaited them. So shadowy were they that
I detected some of them only by their vivid white
tails, which are supposed to be raised only when
they are alarmed. But I was to learn that deer
love to frolic, and they raise high their snowy
tails when they are in a festive mood. Reassured
as they came within sight of the open beach with
no enemy in sight, they all made a wild dash for
the water, for all the world like a rollicking crowd
of human bathers. They were silent, but in every
other way they were playing high jinks. Some of
them raced down the glimmering sands; others
ran into the shallow surf, plunging about in it
with utter merriment. One sedate old stag got his
enjoyment out of watching the fun. There he
stood on the last seaward dune, looking on and
approving; and perhaps
secretly lamenting that his
own youth was passed. I
have never forgotten the radi-
ance of that wide-winged
sunset, lighting this charming
scene of nature’s wild revel-
ers at play. As far as I could
tell, the deer ran races, played
tag, had jumping contests, and
for the time completely threw off their customary
stealthy wariness.

For droll and harmless mischief no living thing
exceeds the wood-rat, one of the most engaging
of all created things. He is so constituted that he
just has to have his fun. If playing waggish
games, especially on man, is a sign of intelligence,
this is the most wonderful member of his large
family. Dr. W. T. Hornaday relates that he knew
two wood—rats to carry nearly a pint of watermelon
seeds from the ground floor of a house to the
second story, where they hid the seeds under a
pillow; and they took a tablespoonful of cucum-
ber seeds from the kitchen upstairs, where they
hid them in the pocket of a vest hanging on a nail.
One has been known to carry an entire set of
checker—men out of a living-room into a kitchen,
where they were deposited in an old saucepan.
The secret of real humor is said to consist in
plaCing incongruities together; and .if this is true,
the wood-rat has a genuine sense of humor. His
pranks are clever and laughably absurd.

Of all animals, perhaps the most buoyantly

"Perhaps to be truly aware of nature's
mood of cap and bells. her spirit of
unreflecting joy, it is necessary for
us to approach her in such a mood our-
selves. It we discover joy. we must
seek it in a spirit of joy. Only the
heart receptive to mirth will ever rec-
ognize it and enter its radiant realm.ll

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 

playful is the otter; but in this respect both the
seal and the mink are close competitors. However,
the otter, even when he is old, appears always
game for a frolic; the love of merry sport is
inherent in his nature.

One summer day, in Atkinson’s Creek, which
meanders leisurely into the wild heart of the great
Santee Delta, I came, not upon one, but upon a
whole family of otters playing. My attention was
first attracted to them by the ripples on the other-
wise placid waters of the creek. As the disturb-
ance was round a bend from me as I approache
in my canoe, I ran my boat into the bank, wen
ashore in the dense marsh, and, sheltered by it
tall greenery, approached the revelers, uncertai
of their identity until I came within sight of them.
At last, through the final fringes of the marsh, I
caught sight of the frolicsome band of wild
children.

On the farther side of the creek was the wrec '
of an ancient wharf, unuse
since the long ago days 0
rice-growing; beside it, wher
the landing once had been,
was a rather steep bank, down
the center of which glistene
a smooth wet track———a regu
lar toboggan slide. As I look
ed, I saw a big otter, all we
and gleaming, at the top of
the slide. In a moment he had let go all holds, an
was Hashing down the slide for the water, whic
he struck with a splash, whereupon he turne
gracefully on his back, then completely over againd,
literally rolling in the water with an incredibl!
litheness and grace.

Suddenly my attention was distracted, even from
such a performance, by a movement in the marsh at
the foot of the slide. Through the dim marsh-
aisles came five young otters, elves with glistening
coats, bright black eyes, and an air of glad alert-
ness. Although not born in the water, otters are
born to it; and even as infants they approach it
as if it were their natural element. Now behind
them I saw the mother; but they did not wait for

‘her to take the water first. They went right in,

swimming with so little apparent effort as to make
the swimming of other creatures appear labored.
But they were going nowhere. They were just out
for a lark. Reaching the middle of the creek, the
mother, who had swum out in front of her babies,
executed a sudden dive, a characteristic feature of
which was the strange yet graceful way in which

NATURE DONS HER CAP AND BELLS

she humped her back. Upon this, every little
otter gracefully followed suit; one heavy furred
tail and live little ones gave in concert a flirt in the
air, and then vanished; also, certain little black
feet, having not yet gained their full skill, sprawled
for a moment ere they disappeared beneath the
water. As suddenly as they had gone down, they
rose; and then the real frolic began. They leaped
almost clear of the water, they rolled, they turned
somersaults. They swam in swift circles, dived,
dashed with a slithering motion over the surface,
lay whimsically still. The waters of the creek
' danced with their fun-making.

‘ After a time the mother and father swam
ashore, where they lay basking on the dimpled
1 brim of the water. The children played a little
longer, when, in the order of their weariness, they
returned to their parents. As each one came in
from swimming, I saw the mother nuzzle it ten-
derly, stroke with her tongue its glistening brown
. fur, and gaze upon it with that especial delight
, that perhaps a mother alone ever experiences.

259

The otters sunned themselves for perhaps ten
minutes; then they climbed the steep mudbank.
Reaching the top of the bank, first one of the old
otters, then the other, slid down. Their perform-
ance seemed to me studied, as if they were show-
ing their children how the thing was to be done.
The babies crowded to the brink in palpitant ex—
citement. Two slid down together; then the small-
est of the live came alone; then the last two,
comically trying to hold on to each other. If they
had been human children, they would have
screamed and laughed for joy. They did neither,
but I am sure that as exciting a joy was theirs.

Many wild things express their joy in sheer
speed, in the glad exertion of their superb physi-
cal perfection. They delight, as our finest athletes
do, in executing difficult feats with thrilling pre-
cision. I have watched, fascinated, the high soar-
ing of a broad—winged hawk, apparently asleep on
mystic wings, tirelessly and without effort turning
with the grace that belongs wholly to experts of
the air. In all the loneliness of wings, he could

 

Courtesy Lo: A ngele: Public School:

260 NATURE DONS HER CAP AND BELLS

not but enjoy, while pendent in the heavens, his
serene and impartial view of the pendent world
beneath him.

By the very manner of their flight many birds
manifest the jubilance of their spirits. Pigeons
well illustrate what I mean. A meadow-lark, sing-
ing on the wing, flies joyously, as he does not
when he is silent. The mocking bird, on quivering
pinions, will sustain himself while pouring forth
his wildest melody.

Whether at home or far from it, we can, if we
are alert, observe the joy of nature, and by so
doing share the happiness of the world. A few
years ago it was my privilege to go out to Bird
Bank, a sandbar some distance off the mouth of
the Santee River, which pours its yellow flood
into the ocean some fifty miles northeast of
Charleston.

On reaching Bird Bank with a friend after a
hard row, we pulled our boat high up on the sands
and covered her with palmetto fronds that we had
brought as camouflage. We reached there just
before the morning flight of ducks came down the
river. For years I had watched them go to sea;
but I had never before been there to receive them.
Hidden under the greenery that shielded our boat,
we watched the incredible clouds of Wildfowl
heading toward us. Flying silently until they had
almost reached us, each flock would set up a glad
clamor as it neared the Bank. By thousands they
came—teal, mallards, black ducks, widgeons. And
most of themalighted on the sand! Some came to
rest in the shoal water in the lee of the Bank, but
these almost immediately swam ashore, and began
to walk about, quacking ecstatically.

Before us in the roseate light of the new day
lay the gleaming lonely sandbar, surrounded by
the restless ocean tides. And here came the gay
myriads—not to feed but to frolic. Of course,
there seems to be about the mirth of nature some-
thing demure—a certain elegance that forbids the
boisterous. Deep-hearted j0y is rarely extrava-
gant in its expression; and in nature the blaring
'artiflciality of the night club and of the football
celebration as evidence of happiness is missing.
Sometimes I think that mere peace is the greatest
proof of joy. This mighty concourse of wildfowl,
during the two hours that I watched them, spent
their time in basking, in drowsing,iin renewing
old acquaintanceships. Here and there little groups
were playing games of ring-around-the-rosy, dUck-
fashion. It was memorable to see that great mul-
titude, utterly joyous and relaxed, taking their

   

siesta on those white sands ringed by that
lonely sea.

Of all the birds known to me, one stands
supreme as the prince of jesters. As we know
from history and from literature, the court fool
was usually the wisest and the wittiest man in the
palace of the king. I cannot answer for the wis-
dom of this bird—unless to take life as a huge
joke be wisdom; but the yellow-breasted chat is
assuredly the most artistic mountebank in the wild
realm of nature. Until you have seen him on the
trapeze, and until you have listened to his waggish
raillery, you do not realize what you have missed
in the way of sheer entertainment. Nor is the
chat a rare bird, to be seen and listened to only |
by the favored few who have time to seek him
out. In almost any old bushy clearing you canl|
watch him and hear him. But you need some
patience; for, with all his rollicking antics, he is a'
shy and secretive soul. If you move, he will be
still; if you make yourself one with your sur-
roundings, he will perform—not for you, but just
because he loves to play the fool.

Although he is the largest of the warblers, he
does not warble; he chortles. What a mad medley
of whistles, catcalls, gurgles, chuckles, grunts, and
mews he gives; then falls suddenly silent, as if to
note the effect of his cheerful jargon on the
listener! While I have seen the swallow-tailedI
kite perform marvelous aerial maneuvers, the chat
is a mountebank on a trapeze. Rising from the
bushes where he has been giving his one-man
comic opera, he will drop, with wings curiously
curved, and with feet extended, appear to catch I
himself in mid-air, and then sidle downward with
the most absurd yet amusing awkwardness. His
tumbling lacks grace, yet it is amazing in its care-
less heed and reckless art, manifesting that seem-
ing abandon which is possible only when there is
a complete mastery of self-control. Here is a
stunt flier, dressed for the part; a wild eccentric,
the mystery of whose behavior no bird-lover, how-
ever keen, has quite fathomed. Truly, he is a be-
loved vagabond, and natUre’s jester supreme, who
exults in producing doggerel verses and in indulg-
ing in the strangest vagaries of behavior.

Nature’s cap and bells should suggest to us, I
believe, not only the drollery and fun of the jester,
but the gaiety which manifests a lightness of
heart—the comedy of life, the pure enjoyment of
the privilege of existence, the mirth that has no
bitter springs, the jubilee of soul, whatever mani-
festation it may take.

NATURE DONS HER CAP AND BELLS 261

One day in mid-October
my natural inclination to
wander took me into the
shaggy wilds of Bear Val-
ley, a superb mountain fast-
ness in southern Pennsyl-

l vania. Throughout its length
flows a trout—stream, now
l warbling over mossy rocks,
now brimming a pool that
‘ flints like a huge amethyst
under the swarthy hemlocks.

On a slope about a hun—
dred yards above the stream
I paused to look downward on the breathless
beauty of the wildwood,‘ when my attention was
attracted to a movement on a little sunlit arena.
I saw a male rufHed grouse, the rich brown of his
plumage, now lighted by the soft suffusing glow

of the October sunlight, blending perfectly with
the rich colors of the fallen leaves on which he
stood. Presently another grouse walked into
sight; then a third, then a fourth. From the ease
of their attitude it was apparent that they had not
detected my presence. There they stood, those
four princes of the woodland, as patrician as any
birds in all the world. Much of the true meaning
. of beauty, of grace, and of natural glamour can
be learned from watching such aristocrats. Of
course, I was prepared to find them in this set-
ting; but what I was unprepared for was the per—
formance it was my privilege to see.

During the mating season, it is natural for us to

- expect the unusual in behavior—a display of emo-
tion that manifests itself in many ways; sometimes
in combat, sometimes in song, sometimes in ex-
traordinary attempts of a wooer to make himself at-
tractive. But often at times far removed from the
rapturous season of mating and of love, nature will
don her cap and bells and frolic in the greenwood.

One of the grouse that I was watching lowered
his wings, fanned out his beautiful tail, lifted his
ruff, and then began to pirouette—for no reason
than that a mood of playfulness was upon him.
One feigned fear, drew all his feathers tightly

, about him, and darted away, only to return a
moment later with all his plumage gaudily dis—
played, and he returned dancing! Soon the other
two grouse joined in the fun. They played tag,
they tried to outdo one another in posturing; they
challenged to fight, but it was all play. Far back
in the wild mountains they were just having a
little Mardi Gras of their own, impelled perhaps

"But to be aware of the spirit of joy prev-
alent in nature. one does not have to visit
the wilds. Look about your garden; look and More than a hundred
listen. From the very tepmost tip of a tree
a brown thrasher warbles ecstatically. If it
be in the springtime. see those two mourn-
ing doves sailing in strange impassioned
flight—a manner assumed by them at no
other time. On those first warm evenings of
spring. how cheery is the piping of the little
frogs! And on that magic day in May, look
who has come from the tropics to visit you:
a ruby-throat. a winged jewel. whose very
presence sets the heart aglow. If he doesn't
make you believe in fairiesI nothing will."

by the beauty about them to
celebrate their joy in life.

years ago, when John James
Audubon was in Scotland,
he visited Sir Walter Scott,
showing that great man
some of his recent drawings
of the birds of America.
Scott says, in his diary,
under date of January 24,
1827: “Visit from Mr. Au—
dubon, who brings some of
his birds. The drawings are
of the first order—the attitudes of the birds of
the most animated character . . . . The feathers
of these gay little sylphs, most of them from the
southern states, are most brilliant.”

One eXpression in this famous passage deserves
notice. It is, “these gay little sylphs.” It took a
genius to catch in such a phrase the mystery, the
other-worldliness of the delicate beauty, fairy .'
charm, and elfin singing of many of our native
warblers. But the word which appeals most to
me is “gay.” Gay to the eye of the old master
who saw them pictured by another master, they
should be gay to us for other reasons as well; for
we see them rather 'than their pictures; we can
mark the changes in their plumage as they radi—
antly move ; we can observe them in ecstatic flight;
and we can hear their songs. . . . Music with us
is more likely to be mournful than joyous; but
when nature sings, she is usually rejoicing. She
wears her cap and bells, and it" has seemed to me
that the birds voice in their singing not their own
joy alone; but lyrically they contrive to express a
part of the loveliness that has inspired them.
Thus when I hear a woodthrush Huting in a
scented pinewood at dusk, I have brought to my
heart in his tone something of the dewiness of

twilight, the damp fragrance. of the exhaling

earth, the silent enchantment of the evening star.

“Expose your child to the wonders of nature.
Sacrifice, if necessary, to provide some time in
the year for him to live close to a natural, simple
life. There are choice values and judgments in
meeting some of the less smooth moods of out-
door living. Let children develop the self reliance
that comes from the mastery of swimming or of
sailing and. caring for a boat. Nature can debunk
false pride rapidly. It can also build character
and courage.”—Russell V. Burial/Lard in H ygeia.

Arts and Crafts in the Recreation Program

HE RECREATION program to-

day must provide not only

for physical activities but
cultural opportunities as well. It was not so long
ago that recreation meant to most people a ball
game, a tennis match, or some other physical ac—
tivity. There was little conception of a recreation
program so broad in its. definition that all types
of interests could be included. Today, fortunately,
this broad interpretation has become accepted,

There is, too, a better appreciation of the values
of short-life activities—those participated in for a
brief period———and long-life activities that may be
enjoyed from early youth to old age. One cannot
play baseball for many years, and football partici—
pation is even of shorter duration. Some of the
long-life activities are music, drama, nature study,
and arts and crafts. If a leisure-time program is
to be of maximum benefit to people of many in—
terests it must contain both physical and cultural
activities.

One of the cultural activities that may play an
important part in the leisure-time program is arts
and crafts, no longer thought of as “art for art’s
sake,” but as an opportunity to help in building
character, to develop love of beauty rather than
to serve merely as “busy work.”
Because of its importance, the
arts and crafts program must
be under the leadership of
trained people who understand

 

By FRANK A. STAPLES
National Recreation Association

In connection with the program of
handcraff on the Springfield. Illinois.

playgrounds. girls at Iles Park las’r'
summer made baby shoes to be sent

abroad by the American Red Cross

the types of crafts best suited
to different age levels and who
are effective in presenting the
objectives and the social and cultural values of
the program. .

An arts and crafts leader should realize the im-
portance of emphasis on particular interests at
certain age levels. A child under ten years of age,
for example, is not greatly concerned with tech-
nical skills. His interest is in doing things and in
being active. His participation in craft work
should not be hampered with too many techniques
but should be characterized by flexibility. and
there should be a place for the play of the child’s
imagination.

A boy or girl between the ages of eleven and
fourteen has some interest in skill, and some pride
in the technical phases of the thing he does. At this
time simple techniques can be taught. It is at this
age that the horizon broadens to include many
crafts not suitable for the younger child. Such
crafts as woodworking, metal work, weaving,
leather work, and carving become a part of the
program. At first only simple skills are intro-
duced, but as the child becomes older and more
adept the crafts offered may be more advanced
and difficult.

It is important that the
leader have an understanding
of the life interests of the
participant so that the craft

ARTS AND CRAFTS IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM 263

work will fit into these interests. How desirable
is it for a boy to make a doorstop or a book end
if these articles are never to be used at home?

The craft leader must understand methods of
presenting the problems to the learner. There are
two distinct methods generally in use today—the
directed method and the creative method. The
first leaves little to the imagination of the learner.
He is taught step by step everything that he is to
do. The emphasis in this method is definitely upon
the skill and ability to follow directions. Both are
valuable, but if no other values come from the
craft program a great deal may be lost.

The leader who uses the creative method, on the
other hand, imparts instruction largely through

indirection. He serves as a source of informa-

tion, of inspiration, and of guidance. He does not
superimpose himself on the learner, but stands in
back of him, urging him on to greater achieve-
ment. He does not lead the beginner by taking his
hand and guiding him along, but he shows him the
opportunities and lets him walk alone. There are
many values in this type of program which are not
possible in the directed method. Greater enjoy-
ment and fun come from doing things oneself.
The ability to solve one’s problems successfully;
opportunity for achievement; the development of
desirable habits are all inherent in the creative

method.

The arts and crafts program should have three
objectives: First, creative opportunities, as has
been suggested; second, high standards; third, an
appreciation for fine arts and crafts. Standards
of design, color, and craftsmanship should deve10p
and become finer as the program continues, and
if the participant does not gain an appreciation of
the crafts the activity has failed to do all that it
should for him.

Arts and crafts play a vital part in the leisure—
time program today. We are in an assembly line
age—a machine age which offers the average per-
son little opportunity to use his hands skillfully.
Deprived of this opportunity, there often follows
a shifting of balance that has a direct effect on
the physical and mental characteristics of an in-
dividual. Eighty per cent of all people in industry
are operatives. They push buttons and pull levers.
Their working hours are monotonous; the rhy-
thms they develop are static. They have no op—
portunity for self-expression.

If an individual does not have an opportunity
in his after—work hours to use his hands skillfully,

or at least to be creative through some activity, he
cannot be a completely happy person. The arts and
crafts program can give him a chance to use his
hands creatively, to be original in his thinking,
and to conceive, plan, and execute a project from
the beginning to the end.

American industry gives very little opportunity
for most people to work at their normal speed. It
is only when we are proceeding at our natural
speed that we are mentally relaxed. Only then do
nerves and muscles coordinate properly. Without
this coordination there is both physical and mental
strain. In the assembly line of a factory, very few
work at normal speed; some are working too fast,
others too slowly. In either case there is equal
strain.

In an arts and crafts program, if the leader is
wise, he will see to it that people relax in their
work; that the project is not made a production
job but an individual, creative opportunity.

It would be foolhardy to try to play a game of
baseball without a ball and bat. Yet some of us
try to carry on a craft program without tools and
materials. Activities in which hand tools are used,
in my opinion, have far greater values than those
in which power machinery is utilized because most
machinery takes away the opportunity for manipu-
lative skill and is closely allied to mass production.
This should never be emphasized in a leisure-time
program of arts and crafts.

Not only are tools needed by the individual,
but craft shops where he may go and work when
he feels the desire. W'e have libraries for_ people
to visit when they wish to read. Why should there
not be craft shops where pe0ple may go and
create? Such shops may be located at first in
already established private and public buildings,
but eventually there may be central craft shops
just as there are central city libraries.

“Craftsmanship is still further nurtured in the
field of amateur endeavor. Such work far trans—
cends the ordinary ‘hobby’ status in many in—
stances. There are men in widely divergent walks
of life who, for their own pleasure and relaxa-
tion, bind their own books, make furniture, or
work in various metals. One,aspect of the prob-
lem of revitalizing craft today on a still wider
sale will be to make available to more persons
engaged in uninspiring routine work the time to
develop and practice such occupations.”—From
The American Craftsman.

How Does Your Garden Grow?

LAN IN AUGtJST to
P give some simple in-

struction on prob-
lems to be encountered in
preparing exhibits at the
local flower show.

Continue to keep
weeds, insects and plant
diseases destroyed.

Make final visits to
home garden plots dur-
ing this month.

Make a special study of the construction and
preparation of a compost pile.

Conduct game periods and garden parties espe-
cially for the younger children.

Study and learn to make up simple flower ar-
rangements and containers to use for them.

Learn some of the methods in preparing vege-
tables for the daily food supply. Have a canning
demonstration.

Acquaint junior gardeners with vegetable and
flower-judging principles. '

Encourage sketching and painting of garden
flowers.

Develop a nature area including a nature trail,
cooking facilities, and council ring adjacent to the
gardens.

What to Do in September

If perennials are transplanted now they will
have a good opportunity to become established
before the winter season sets in.

Conduct a flower show and exhibition in order
that junior garden club members may have a
chance to display garden produce.

Grasses may be gathered now to be used for
winter arrangements.

Make up miniature and dish gardens for school
rooms and recreation centers.

Paper-white narcissus started early this month
should be in bloom for Thanksgiving.

Clay modeling, floral craft and similar indoor
garden activities may begin now.

264

The April issue of Recreation had

suggestions for your gardening pro-
gram in May, June, and July. These
reminders are intended for your use
in August, September,and October.

By JOHN CAMPBELL

National Recreation Association

  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

This is a splendid tim
to look after all law
areas. The sowing o
grass seed and movin
sod may be done at thi
time.

Plan to have an achieve
ment day program a
which time garden award
may be distributed. In
vite parents to this pro—
gram.

Know the names of some perennials that store
food in their roots,‘in stems, and in buds. l

Plant seeds of grapefruit, lemons, oranges, andI
other fruit for observation purposes. '

Reminders for October

Clean up all garden refuse and leaves and place
them on the compost pile. Burn all diseased plant
material.

Plant a cover crop of winter rye on vacant
garden areas. This will add organic matter to the
soil when it is turned under.

All garden tools and sheds should be thoroughly
cleaned now. Cover tools with oil and neatly store
them for the winter.

Prepare an exhibit of ferns, mosses, mounted
insects and weeds and collections of twigs, galls,
cocoons.

Now is a good time for observation and identi—
fication of all shrubs, trees, leaves, winter berries
and evergreens.

Construct simple terraria, aquaria, cactus bowls
and similar projects.

Take up the study of storage practices of gar-
den produce. '

Make a special study of bulbs for both indoor '
and outdoor plantings.

Plan to set up a soilless plant project where 
flowers and vegetables may be grown.

Learn the names of some of the common
animals and become familiar with their habits.

Agassiz Village ——-—A Boys' Community

By VINSON STROHMAN

In the woods of Maine

is a boys' community

where the magic words

cooperation - industry -

health - happiness - are

helping to open doors
to richer living

GASSIZ VILLAGE is the summer home of the
A Burroughs Newsboys Foundation. It is
located at West Poland, Maine, about
eighteen miles from Lewiston, and the well-known
Poland Spring House and Summit Springs Hotel
are close by. The Village is on the bank of Lake
Thompson and occupies 600 acres of cultivated
and wooded land. The White Mountain range is
in the distance and on a clear day the peak of
Mt. Washington can be seen. Two small islands in
Lake Thompson belong to the Village, whose
property includes fifty-two cabins and cottages,
one of the largest log cabins in the country, full
waterfront equipment, four craftshops, a store,

two garages, a town hall, a newspaper, three ath- '

letic fields, a tennis court, a library, an infirmary
and stables.
The visitor enters the“Village through a gate of

birchbark with a sign above it reading:

THE
AGASSIZ VILLAGE
OF THE

BURROUGHS NEWSBOYS FOUNDATION

COOPERATION - INDUSTRY
HEALTH - HAPPINESS

This is the motto of vacationland for thousands
of street-trade boys.

The Village came into being in 1935 through
the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. Maximilian Agas-

 

. v. . .3. qt
., ‘\
. w i
a . , ‘ M
3333." ’7'». “9...;   _ _ ~_r. n  ‘ new ‘ '

The Elizabeth Carr Agassiz Dining Hall is
one of the largest og cabins in the country

 

siz, trustees of the Burroughs Newsboys Founda-
tion. The help of J. Willard Hayden, together
with assistance from the Greater Boston Commu-
nity Fund and other friends, were important fac-
tors in its development. Maximilian Agassiz is a
lineal descendant of Louis Agassiz, the great bi-
ologist and natural scientist. J. Willard Hayden
is president of the Charles Hayden Foundation
which last year made it possible for 30,000 boys
to enjoy summer camp life. These and other
friends of the Burroughs Newsboys Foundation,
activated by the idealism of Harry E. Burroughs,
the founder, recognize the value of Agassiz Vil-
lage and are giving it every encouragement.

The Purpose of the Village

The underlying purpose of Agassiz Village is to
bring health and happiness to street-trade boys
while strengthening them in their qualities of in-
dependence and resourcefulness. The Village is
not simply a camp but a practical education in the
art of living wisely and well. Each item on the
program, besides being a source of pleasure, is
designed to further the boys’ development. In
self-government, for example, Villagers not only

265

266 AGASSIZ V1LLAGE——A BOYS’ COMMUNITY

have the satisfaction of conducting their own
affairs but receive training in their future respon-
sibilities of citizenship. They see flowers around
them everywhere that leave images of, beauty on
their impressionable minds. They see fowl and
domestic animals roving about at large, and they
learn something from them too. A merry-go-
round in the center of the green adds to the pre—
vailing spirit of 0y. The hills, the lake, the broad
untrammeled vistas give them a serener outlook
on life. The orgatron and chimes in the tower of
the log cabin dining hall lift up their thoughts to
higher things as they ring out with each quarter
hour. The spaciousness of the Village itself neu-
tralizes the ‘ill effects of the narrow confines to
which many a street-trade boy is accustomed.

The Village accommodates nearly a thousand
boys during its season of eight weeks. They ar-
rive in groups of from 200 to 250 for a two week
period. Transportation is supplied gratis by the
Foundation. The first period begins on July 2nd
and the season closes on August 26th. The boys
pay a small admission fee in accordance with their
age and means. Many members of the Foundation
save up for their vacation with the Foundation
credit union during the winter. A limited number
of Village scholarships are available to the needi-
est. Some remain at the Village beyond their
allotted time free of charge if their physical con-
dition demands it. First admission preference is
given to members recommended by the Founda-
tion’s medical clinic in Boston. The Village is
open not only to members of the Foundation but
to all boys from the social agencies of Boston.
Villagers are classified as juniors, intermediates,
and seniors, and special programs are arranged
for each group.

The Program

One of the activities of the general program is
Village Improvement. Each day except Sunday,
from 8 :30 until 10:00 o’clock, every Villager par-
ticipates in this project according to his ability.
Some prune trees, others clean up along the water-
front, a few tend the vegetable and flower gardens.
There is a task for every boy and each is as im-
portant as any other. Village Improvement is not
only what the name indicates but something more——
improvement of the Villager. Boys get a sense of
communal responsibility as a result of it. They
also achieve a feeling of ownership. Each boy
thinks: “This is my Village.” And the thought
makes him proud and happy.

Classes in leathercraft, metalcraft, Indian bead-
work, drawing, sculpturing, photography and
many other crafts afford Villagers an outlet for
their creative energy. They are held in the fore—
noon and afternoon under the leadership of well—
trained counselors. The boys make gifts for
friends and visitors, and the best of their products
are placed on sale at “Ye Village Gift Shoppe.”
The profit goes to the maker of the article. Vil-
lagers are charged only for the cost of their craft
materials. Those who have no money at all are
given their materials free of charge. The boys
take satisfaction in creating things with their own
hands. It pleases them to have something to show
their friends and parents when they return home.

Self-government is another phase of Village
life. It is conducted along town-meeting lines.
Three selectmen, chosen in secret ballot, consti-
tute the head of the government. They remain in
force for two weeks at the end of which period
new officers are elected from among the incoming
boys. Other officers include a judge, district at-
torney, sheriff, commissioners and constables. Boys
who disobey the rules may be arrested by the
sheriff and brought to trial by jury. If guilt is
established, the judge metes out the punishment
which consists, in the worst cases, of a loss of
privilege for a few days.

The boys to a certain extent run the Village
themselves. The road commissioner looks to the
safety of the roads and lanes. The building com-
missioner checks on the condition of the cabins
and cottages. The constables keep peace and order
among the boys and serve as guides when there
are visitors. The town crier, in Pilgrim garb, an-
nounces the important events of the day. Many
ideas now incorporated in the Village program
originated in sessions of the boys’ government.

Underweight boys receive extra meals each day -
in the Frances Stern Club. This club is named in
honor of Frances Stern, the well-known nutri-
tionist of the Boston Dispensary Hospital. The
members meet on the verandah of the Elizabeth
Cary Agassiz Hall. Villagers as a body take their
meals inside the spacious hall, a feature of which
is the fireplace with its cathedral spires. A flag-
raising and flag-lowering ceremony, with every-
one standing at attention, precedes breakfast and
supper. Different boys from each cabin serve as
waiters from day to day. Villagers sing songs of
their own composition and a boys’ orchestra plays
during meals. The prevailing mood is one of joy
and merriment. Individual boys gain as much as

 

AG/fiSSIZ VILLAGE—~—-A BOYS" COMMUNITY 267

ten pounds each during their stay in the Village.

Every boy receives personal guidance from his
counselor under whose direct supervision all his
time is spent. They eat, play and work together in
mutual friendliness and trust. The boy looks to
his counselor for leadership in all things and it is
the duty of the counselor to provide it. Problem
boys are unobtrusively watched and their diffi-
culties are discussed at staff meetings. A patient
and sympathetic approach without fuss or for-
mality is often the only thing necessary to help
them make an adjustment. When a boy is home-
sick or troubled in some other way, his counselor
takes him for a walk in the woods and talks to
him as one friend 'to another, cheering him up,
giving him a saner viewpoint on his problem.
Some boys have come to the Village with court
records of delinquency, and under the influence of

Village life and the counselors, have achieved.

fecords of exemplary behavior.

The Henry L. Shattuck Town Hall, named
after Henry L. Shattuck, the former treasurer of
Harvard University, is the center of the recrea-
tion program. Its equipment includes a Wurlitzer,
ping-pong tables, a stage and screen, a moving-
picture machine and many other items of recrea-
tional value. Here the elections and sessions of
the Village government take place and on Friday
nights movies are shown. Here, too, all incoming
boys pass through “Customs.” This, as the name
implies, is a procedure of checking on and inven-
torying the belongings of each boy to the end that
he may return home with as much as he had when

he arrived.

There is a program at
Town Hall almost every
night. Sometimes the boys
sing songs of their own
composition; sometimes
they have boxing matches
and amateur shows; and
often a magician and other
professional entertainers
give a performance.

One of the important
values of the Village
Improvement program
is the sense of com-
munity responsibility
it helps to develop

The recreation program also embraces such ac-
tivities as Indian campfires, three-day canoe trips,
overnight camping, sunrise hikes, scavenger hunts,
mountain-climbing excursions and other events.
The Indian campfires are held under the direction
of two full-blooded Indians in complete tribal
regalia. The overnight camping takes place on the
islands in the lake and at Pioneer Village, a clear—
ing in the woods not far off. At least once during
each period the boys get up at dawn to see the
sunrise. It is an unforgettable experience for
most of them.

Music is an integral part of Village life. The
boys sing during meals, at Town Hall in the eve-
ning, and they hear the orgatron and chimes all
day long while engaged in their various activities.
An orchestra and glee club entertain at dinner four
times a week, and at least once during the season
they give performances at the Poland Spring
House and Summit Springs Hotel. Some of the

boys are very talented. A song-writing contest is
held once each period and the best songs are col—
lected and printed at the end of the season. The
repertoire of Village music consists largely of songs
written by the boys during the last five years.
The music appreciation hour is a basic part of
the program. It takes place, weather permitting,
every day after dinner outside the Elizabeth Cary
Agassiz Hall. One Sundays the orgatron and
chimes are featured. The hour consists for the
most part of classical and semi-classical recordings

broadcast through a loud speaker. The boys,

 

268 AGASSIZ VILLAGE—A BOYS" COMMUNITY

stripped to the waist, lie on the greensward and
listen. Each record is interpreted by the music
director before being played, and something is
added about the life of the composer. All this
contributes greatly to the musical awareness of
the boy and is an enjoyable experience in. itself.

Ye Village Crier is the name of the mimeo-
graphed newspaper which the boys write, pro-
duce, and distribute once a week. Newsboys be—
come newspapermen and the change is beneficial.
'Each cabin has its own reporter. The best re-
porters cover special events such as overnight
camping trips or visits from Mr. and Mrs. Agassiz.

The waterfront, naturally enough, is one of the
most popular places in the Village. A diving—
board, water-wheel, spinning-top, motor launch,
speedboat, numerous rowboats and canoes, includ-
ing two war canoes, constitute its equipment.
Safety is ensured by the presence of a large staff
of Red Cross instructors under the supervision of
the waterfront director. The Village, one might
note in this connection, has an A rating from the
American Red Cross and state of Maine.

The boys go swimming twice a day during the
forenoon and afternoon. Those who come to the
Village without bathing suits are supplied with
them free of charge. Every precaution is taken to
avoid sunburn and other dangers connected with
the activity. -The Buddy System, through which
boys pair Up when they enter the water, makes it
possible to check up on them every few minutes.
Boys who cannot swim receive instruction from
some of the waterfront men. Only those who
pass the swimming tests which are given each boy
when he arrives are allowed to take out a row-
boat or canoe. Races and other waterfront events
are held each week.

Athletic activities include baseball, tennis, bas-
ketball, badminton and other sports. Inter-cabin
baseball games take place almost every day, and
there are games with'boys from neighboring camps
and institutions. Though Villagers are encouraged
to win, the accent is primarily on good sports-
manship.

The Laura M. Agassiz Library is located on a
knoll overlooking Lake Thompson. The boys
come here to read and study whenever they are so
inclined. It is an attractive, well—ventilated build—
ing with large French windows and many interior
adornments. The shelves are crammed with maga-
zines and books of general and specific interest to
boys. Many of these books relate to the activities

of the Village. There are volumes on nature to
supplement the nature study class which is held in .
the Village Museum and in the woods, volumes
on metalcraft, woodwork, radio, photography and
many other subjects. It is here, too, that Mrs.
Agassiz holds her word-study class when she visits
the Village. This class is her own creation and
she carries it on during the winter at the Founda-
tion in Boston. I

All boys were examined by the Village doctor
and his assistants as soon as they arrive and re-
examined when they leave. Underweight boys, as
has been stated, are assigned to the Frances Stern
Club for extra nourishment, and specific recom-
mendations are made and carried out in the case
of boys with other deficiencies. Hospitalization,
whenever necessary, is given free of charge. It is
worth noting that during the past few seasons not
a single Villager had to enter the infirmary for
treatment.

The doctor _inspects the cabins every morning
for cleanliness, neatness and sanitation. He gives
each cabin a grade and announces it to the boys
during dinner. The cabin with the highest stand-
ing at the end of the week receives a pennant amid
a fiourish of trumpets by the Village orchestra
and a brief speech from the town crier. The boys
also receive prophylactic instruction from a den-
tist on the premises.

Villagers are city boys. For many of them
contact with domestic animals is a new and in-
structive experience. There are cows, pigs and
horses at the Village, and the boys have a chance -
to observe and study their ways. The horses are
especially popular as the boys ride them in the
ring and on the bridle path. '

A staff of fifty counselors and specialty men
takes care of the boys. Many of them are teach-
ers by profession and well—trained in their par-
ticular job._ All are under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Burroughs, who gives up his law
practice each summer to direct the work of the
Village. The founder of the Burroughs News-
boys Foundation is well qualified for his responsi-
ble task. He knows boys of the street. He him-
self was one of them many years ago. From
newsboy to lawyer to founder and president of a
social agency serving thousands of street-trade
boys—this, in brief, is his story. The thousands
who have been to Agassiz Village are grateful to
him and the friends of the Foundation for mak-
ing the Village possible.

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap’n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

S TRON OM Y . Star lore meetings are held
at the Allegheny Observatory, Riverview
Park, Pittsburgh, from June through October.
These sessions are sponsored by the Wissahickon
Nature Museum in collaboration with the Ama-

teur Astronomers Association.

Backyarding or Day Camping. “Summer Pro-
gram for Cubs” is the title of a 1941 publication
by Boy Scouts of America, 2 Park Avenue, New
York City. Activities include a pen for pets, a
hobby garden, a rainy weather workshop in the
garage, an outdoor fireplace, a den for members
only, and other programs.

Bird H onse Contest. The eleventh annual Mil-
waukee County exhibit was held in the Public
Library, March 29 to April 4.

Camp Cookery. Charred potatoes eaten raw
need no longer be a national dish. To bake the
potatoes, punch a few holes in a coffee tin, put in
a spoonful of water with the potatoes and cover
with hot ashes. Make a double boiler by nesting
two tin cans. Put pebbles and water in the
larger or lower can and cereal in the upper can.
It’s always better if you do not stir the pebbles
into the cereal!

Camp Directors Conference. Ruby I. Jollif‘fe,
Palisades Interstate Park, announces her seven-
teenth annual conference. With five regional mu-
seums manned by expert naturalists, and with each
of the one hundred camps having a resident nat—
uralist, Miss Jolliiie has built up a strong nature
program. The recent death of Major William
Welch is a loss to the cause.

Can-wing. “Outdoor Living,” Cornell Rural

_ School Leaflet, March, 1941, Ithaca, New York,

should be in the kit of every-
one attending camp this sum-

Maryland. Each member is expected to take a
boy fishing once a year.

Forest Fires. Such an annual warning has been
up-to-date for centuries. A careless individual
(tourist or neighbor), one cigarette butt stuck in
a dry stump, or burning brush on the wrong day,
may start a fire which can be put out only after
thirty acres of forest are destroyed. “Didn’t in-
tend to” doesn’t put back the trees; it doesn’t
cover the scar; it doesn’t pay twenty men who
worked to put it out. We just had to mention it!

Grand Coulee Dam began its work in March.
The generators will turn the water power of the
Columbia River into one-fourth as much electri-
city as is used in all New England. Thirty-eight
freight cars are required to carry the parts of just
one of the eighteen generators. The lake will be
151 miles long. This dam will make American
life richer for all.

Missouri State Park Department held its fourth
annual Interstate School for Park Naturalists at
Meramec State Park, Sullivan, May 11 to 13.
Reynold E. Carlson, Raymond Gregg, Carl P.
Russel, and William G. Vinal were on the faculty.

Nature Leaders’ Training School. Oglebay
Park, Wheeling, West Virginia, is announcing its
fourteenth annual school, June 14 to July 12. Any—
one who has not been on the trail with its genial
director, A. B. Brooks, has missed a rare oppor-
tunity.

Naturalist Positions. Recreationists who advise
young folks should know about Junior Profes-
sional Assistants in science at $166.67 a month for
the U. S. government. A recent announcement
lists nineteen branches in which young college
graduates are needed. Junior
biologist for wild life, junior

mer. Pictures help tell the story
of tin-can cookery, drinking
water, beds, safety, sanitation,

‘ trailing, and. dangerous plants

and animals.

Fishing. The Brotherhood
of the Jungle Club is an in-
formal organization formed in

Cap'n Bill wishes to express his ap-
preciation of the ever-widening circle
of "nature-gramers." And he has
this to say: "If your pet project
does not appear in this column it's
because of gross negligence on your
part. Don't hide your nature-grams
in a Dismal Swamp. Bring them to
light in Recreation.” Or. in other
words' "Get the nature-gram habit."

forester, junior range conser-

vationist, and junior 20010gist
are among the fields covered.
Parks. “Enjoy Your Parks”
is a theme in the Park Nature
News of the Nature Education
Staii, Bureau of Parks, Pitts-

(Continued on page 278)
269

WORLD AT PLAY I

A COLORFUL children’s
fair wound up the first
year of the Children’s
W orkshop in the ex-
hibition hall of the County Center at Westchester
County on May 24, 1941, with added exhibits
contributed by the Workshop’s two guests—the
Irvington Children’s Museum and the Mt. Ver-
non Children’s Workshop. The fair served to sum
up a year’s activity on the part of one hundred
‘Westchester County boys and girls between the
ages of five and fourteen. The children them-
selves built and decorated the booths in which to
display their work in general crafts, metal work,
modeling, painting, and woodwork. While the
fruits of the year’s program were spread out in
the booths, living demonstrations of pottery and
painting were conducted to show visitors how the
work was accomplished. Every half hour “side
shows” interrupted the proceedings. There were
a presentation of “Cinderella” by, the dramatics
class, the dance group’s version of “Noah and His
Ark,” and a recital by the piano class.

Children’s Workshop
Presents a Fair

So READ the circular
advertising the fold-
boat train and cycle
train scheduled for
May II, 1941, by the New York, New Haven and
Hartford Railroad which carried foldboat enthu-
siasts to Falls Village, Kent, Connecticut, where
there are seventeen miles of natural loveliness
along the Housatonic River. Bicycles and fold-
boats were carried free in the trains which also
served hobby train meals at moderate prices.

“If it’s fish you want,” says a folder issued by
the Long Island Railroad, “take the fishermen’s
special to Montauk.” The special feature offered
fishermen on this train in addition to reduced
rates is a refrigerator car on the return trip for
the use of any lucky anglers.

“It’s Hobby Train
Time Again!”

THE ABANDONED milk
station which was es-
tablished years ago on
the East Side of New
York by the late Nathan Straus has become a
library devoted exclusively to children and young
people up to twenty-one years of age. In this

270

Children’s Library
Stresses Fun

first floor are the index files so arranged that the
can be reached by the smaller children who m

join the library as soon as they can write the
own names. The mezzanine, or second fioor,

used as a children’s story room. This and the cl

room next door have wood-burning fireplaces th
will snap and roar when the children gath
around them next winter to read, write, or liste
to stories.

The library is known as the Nathan Stra
Branch of the New York Public Library, and t
building is being used with the consent of th
Straus heirs.

three story building, on the remodeling of whic
$60,000 furnished by the city has been expende
emphasis will be on recreational reading. On t
I
I

. VVEEKDAY sessions I
0n£lsrlggeFZfirthe the Roller Rink at t i
New York City Buil

ing on the site of t

VVorld’s Fair have been discontinued with the e
ception of Saturday and Sunday afternoons. Ev
ning sessions are held every night at 7 :30 o’cloc
and the free period for children on Saturday
mornings from 9 :30 A. M. to 12:00 noon are bein
continued. It is believed that because the buildiu‘
is air conditioned the roller skating sessions wi
continue popular throughout the warm weather.

Since the skating rinks in the City Building
were opened to the public on January 12, 194g,
they have been patronized by 163,955 skateq
Permanent parking fields,‘ large enough to accom-
modate normal crowds at the building, are now
under construction and will be completed by fall.

Nature Recreation

h
Contest Closes ment by the 8011

Carolina State C0 _-
mission of Forestry
that John Thomas Robinson, Jr., was the winner
of the State Park Nature Recreation Contest, an
interesting contest has been brought to a close.
Open to all residents of South Carolina who had
obtained entrance from a recognized college or
university, the contest required each contestant to
submit a program for nature recreation in one of
the state parks, a detailed plan for a trip or hike
around the park, a report and plan for self-guid-

WITH THE announI-

 

WORLD AT PLAY 271

ing nature trails, an outline for publicity for the
nature program, an exhibit of nature craft ma-
terial, and a list of materials needed to carry on a
program. In addition, each contestant was asked
to pass an examination to determine his qualifica-
tions. Mr. Robinson and the three other high
ranking contestants were given employment as
. naturalists in the state parks.

, A National Defense Field Day—National

Defense Field Day, when hundreds of young men
, of Los Angeles will demonstrate the effects of the
' physical training received in draftee conditioning
clubs on city playgrounds, was scheduled for June.
' Events of the field meet included a drill competi-
, tion with army ochers as judges, group athletics,
l and individual tests of speed, strength, and en-
durance to show the physical improvement of
draft-registrants who are members of the free
conditioning classes at the Los Angeles recreation

centers.

Institute of Adult Education—Announce—
ment has been made of the establishment of an
Institute of Adult Education as an integral part of
Teachers College, Columbia University. The in-
: stitute has ,been made possible by a grant of
$350,000 from the Carnegie Corporation of New
York for a ten year period beginning October I,
1941. The executive officer of the institute will
be Morse A. Cartwright, director of the American
Association for Adult Education, who has been
appointed, Professor of Education at Teachers
College and who will continue as director of the
Association. The offices of the Association will
be moved on October Ist to Teachers College
where they will occupy space with the institute.

The Institute of Adult Education will be con-
cerned primarily with the training of professional
and volunteer leaders, although an important task
of the institute will be the production and publi-
cation on an experimental basis of materials of
instruction for adults at many educational levels.

The Romance of Human Progress—“The
Romance of Human Progress ThrOUgh the Stone
Age to the Steel Age” was the subject of the nine-
teenth annual women’s demonstration presented
on April 24, 1941 by the Detroit, Michigan, De-
partment of Parks and Recreation. About seven
hundred girls and women from classes conducted
by the Department took part in the demonstration.

  

As Originally
Developed by. . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas
Lawrence. Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-

ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Ilnder Exclusive License IAgreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street 3' o o n »

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

 

Camping in Hartford—The eightieth Annual
Report of the Board of Park Commissioners of
Hartford, Connecticut, states that camping facili-
ties at Batterson Park are growing each year in
popularity. A total of 2,836 boys and girls were
taken to the outdoor camps for supervised vaca-
tion periods which ranged from overnight camp-
ing periods to a stay of several days. Charter Oak
Council, Boy Scouts of America, made use ofits
Camp Frontier throughout the entire year, spon-
soring both summer and winter camps. Camp
Hollister, sponsored by the Hartford Friends of
Boys, provided for 220 newsboys and bootblacks
who enjoyed 1,100 camping days. Camp Bernard
was patronized by 240 members of the Boys’
Brigade of the Immaculate Conception Church
who participated in five day camp periods for eight
weeks. One hundred and forty—eight members of
Girl Scout troops of Hartford enjoyed camping
privileges for varying lengths of time.

A Tree Trail—The Republican Review for
May 8, 1941, published by WPA of Lincoln,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

» St. Louis, Mo.

272 JOHN H. SIEKER

 

(— Here’s the W

New
DIAMOND

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
madel Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND OALK HORSESHDE 00.
4510 GRAND AVENUE

DULUTH. MlNN.

 

Nebraska, reports an ambitious nature plan under
way—the marking of a tree trail from Franklin
to Oxford in the Republic River Valley. It is a
genuinely cooperative undertaking since organized
groups in each of the towns are planning the
features of the trail assisted by Ruth M. Fleming,
nature specialist of the state staff. In addition to
the marking of the trees, shelter houses, equipped
with recreation supplies, will be established every
ten miles or so. Two camps will also be built. A
jamboree will mark the completion of the 'trail,
when everyone who has had a part in it will meet
at a central point on the trail for a day of play.

Outgrowths of an Institute—As the result of
an institute held in Birmingham, Alabama,
under the auspices of the National Recreation
Association, a group of about seventy—five
people who attended the institute are now
meeting once a month to talk over recreation
programs and conduct a social recreation pro-
gram. The association which has been or—
ganized is divided into five groups that hold
separate meetings once or twice during the

 

John H. Sieker

 

JOHN H. SIEKER

JOHN H. SIEKER has been appointed Chief o
the Division of Recreation and Lands in th
United States Forest Service. He had served a
Assistant Chief for nearly two years and he ha
been Acting Chief since the death of Robert Ma
shall in November, 1939.

Mr. Sieker, a graduate of the Yale School 0
Forestry, went to Washington after twelve year I
in various national forests. In his new position h
will have charge of supervising programs an
policies for the 4,650 improved camp grounds
wilderness areas, and other recreational develop
ments of the Forest Service.

month besides attending the regular monthly
meetings of the combined groups. The group
interested in dancing, although associated with
the association, is known as the Alabama'
Folk Dance Association. This group has done
some very serious work.

One of the objectives of the association iii
to prepare programs which can be used duré
ing the following month. For instance, the
first banquet held on February 13th had as
its theme St. Patrick’s Day, and all the decor-
ations, games, and dances were correlated
with this theme. Individual members then
took the program back to the community
groups with which they are associated and

used it in their individual programs.

WORLD AT PLAY 273

FOR THE FOURTH

RECREATION

   
   
     

All Steel Pan
Shaped Basket-
ball Bank

Write for literature on the

new otiicial outdoor type
Fan-Shaped Basketball
Bank and Goal.

   

13 Years Old

_.I
m J. E. PORTER
CORPORATION infrlnié’vxé

l Disability Leaves — The following regula-
t tions are in force in San Francisco, California, in
l connection with disability leaves: for absence due
l to disability caused by illness or injury arising out
of, and in course of, employment there is no com-
pensation for the first seven days of leave for
persons involved in industrial cases, compensa-
tion beginning on the eighth day when rate is com-
puted at 65 per cent of 95 per cent of the month’s
salary, with a maximum payment of $25.00 a
week. While there is no compensation for the
first seven days of leave in industrial cases, work-
l ers who have accumulated sick leave to their

credit may, if they desire, have this applied against
I the first seven days of leave in industrial cases.

| Historic Shrine Dedicated—On September

22nd formal ceremonies marked a notable addi-
tion to Paul Revere Mall in the North End sec-
" tion of Boston, when a number of bronze tablets
and a heroic size bronze equestrian statue of
Paul Revere were dedicated. This addition was

 

 

Write for Our Complete Playground Equipment Catalog

.. s t- i 1. I. ‘ “JUNGLEGYM”

Climbing Structure ‘_ Combination

 
       
 
 
  
    

The perfect playground combination. Comprised of 2 swings. 2 rings, 16
Ft. Slide and a horizontal bar. all combined with the versatile "JUNGLE-
GYM" Climbing Structure—40 popular in the Children's World at the recent
New York World's Fair. "IUNGLEGYM" Climbing Structure is absolutely
sate—with a record of 100 million child-play-hours without a single serious
accident or a cent of up-keep cost. This complete playground set costs you
only $152.. F.O.B. factory, Ottawa, 111.: less than the price of the "JUN-
GLEGYM" Climbing Structure alone iust a few years ago. Other combina-
tion units available as low as $41., P.O.B. factory. Ottawa. 111. Ground
space required—20 Ft. x 27 FL: Height installed—8 Ft. Write for literature.

made possible through the White Fund of the city
of Boston.

Thus there has been established in a crowded
section of semi-alien population a dignified his-
torical shrine which will serve as a reminder of
the struggles by which we today have inherited
the advantages and privileges which the early
patriots made possible.

Blind Campers Find Fun at Camp Chaffee—
Camping for the blind was an investment which
paid large dividends when, last summer, the Troy
Kiwanis Club sent twenty-five members of the
Dayton Association of the Blind to Camp Chafiee
for one week. Their handicap apparently did not
dampen the spirits of the campers who helped
one another to dance, hike, swim, and play games.
Among the grOUp were amazingly skilled bowlers,
swimmers, divers, archers, and dart players.
These ten men and fifteen women had a “wonder-
ful time” crowding into one week their regular
two weeks camping program.

274 WORLD AT PLAY

Leadership in Eugene, Oregon—The fall rec—
reation program in Eugene, Oregon, last year was
made possible by cooperation with the University
of Oregon’s School of Physical Education. This
department required each senior intending to
teach to spend a quarter of his senior year doing
practice work in recreation. The school play-
grounds were used for this work.

A New Swimming Pool for Cedar Rapids,
Iowa —— Cedar Rapids, Iowa, has passed a
$53,000 bond issue for the construction of a swim-
ming pool at Ellis Park; $8,000 raised by the
Young Men’s Bureau and the Chamber of Com-
merce will be applied to the bond issue. The pool
will serve for general swimming and also for com-
petitive events.

A Club for Newsboys—The Burroughs News-
boys Foundation, established by Harry E. Bur-
roughs to serve Boston’s newsboys, is conducting
ninety-three classes whose subjects include music
and the fine arts, carpentry, printing, pottery,
metal craft, and many others. Every nook and
corner of the building is filled with boys attending
classes. The activities have outgrown the facilities
of the building, and there are now thirty-two ex-
tension groups in various parts of the city. Each
group has its own government and sends reports
to the Foundation. At certain times the building
is turned over for the exclusive use of the exten-
sion groups. In the summer many of the boys are
sent to Agassiz Village at West Poland, Maine,
where they have their own village of 500 acres
with over fifty buildings. Here the boys run their
affairs under a village government and have their
own blacksmith, barber shops, and general store.
They make the repairs on the buildings and roads,
plant gardens, and cultivate the soil. (See page
265 for story of the Village.)

A Rural Recreation Council—The first rural
recreation council in West Virginia has been or-
ganized in Ohio County. All club and church
leaders throughout the county may become mem-
bers of the council which meets monthly to ex-
change ideas, discuss techniques and programs.
Council members learn about games, folk dances,
community singing, crafts, skits, and plays through
actual demonstration.

Property Acquisitions in Houston—Houston,
Texas, is going forward step by step in its park

    
   
   
 

and recreation progress. \Vithin the last fe
months the city has purchased eight acres for 0
new park, five acres for a second new one, an
seven as an addition to an existing park.

A New Kind of Industrial Chorus—--—The I
dustrial F oremen’s Club of Waterbury, Connect1 .
cut, has been instrumental in organizing a gle
club to which seventy-five men representin
twelve factories belong. Initial expenses were un
derwritten by a number of industrial executive
who had faith in the club. The first concert he]

in April was an outstanding success financial]
and artistically.

  
 
   
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
    
  

Recreation Council in Spokane—Spokane,
Washington, has established a Recreation Coun-‘
cil of the leaders of various agencies and unor-'
ganized groups in Spokane. This group is theI
“action” and supporting strength for changes and
progress within the city.

A Conservation Library—The United Stateq
Office of Education announces twelve bulletins oh
conservation education and practice. These ha
been prepared by the United States Office of Ed -
cation specialists and include information suppli
by many governmental and educational agenci .
These bulletins, four of which are free and m
be secured from the United States Office of Edd-
cation, \Vashington, D. C., form a compact library
of reference facts and recommendations which 'f
bound in one volume would produce a single seve
hundred page source book on the subject of co _—
servation.

Study in Chicago—Another study is now bér
ing made of the distribution of Chicago’s pla
areas under the auspices of the Chicago Recrea-
tion Commission and the Chicago Plan Commis-
sion and under the direction of Hugh Young,
chief engineer of the Plan Commission. Each 01f
the city’s 344 square miles will be studied with
three main questions in mind. These concern the
zoning involved in various sections of the city in
relation to industrial and residential factors, the
use of existing recreational facilities, and the es-
tablishment of recreational standards for all areas.

Legal Liability—The Administrators’ Club
of California, which numbers among its mem-
bership the directors of training departments
in more than a dozen colleges, heads of

_-r.———-_ .—-——-—. _ .— .—. .

_—4 :n: 4 _—-—__-—

HANDCRAFTS AND THE MUSEUM 275

physical education departments, and superin-
tendents of recreation in southern California,
held a meeting recently devoted to a discus-
sion of legal liability. One point stressed, ac—
cording to Miss Pauline M. Frederick, presi-
dent of the Club, was the importance of the
securing of names of all witnesses of an ac-
cident. It was felt by the group that negli-
gence could be determined only by the jury
because it depended on what the jury thought
a prudent person should have done under the
circumstances. The importance of proper care
of the child after an accident and a quick
notification of the parents were also em-
phasized. The necessity of inspection of all
equipment was another point made. Children
under twelve years of age, it was felt, could
not be expected to have any discretion, and there-
fore negligence in their case would be charged to
the teacher although the accident was caused
because of the disobedience of the child. Cau-
tion about not moving an injured child was
stressed, and it was urged that only first aid
should be given. In some cases playground

! area directors, it was suggested, are guilty of

 

!
l

doing more than this.

Handcrafts and the Museum
(Continued from page 256)

In such ways does a museum interest, inspire,
and encourage, helping each man and child to find
for himself that which gives him pleasure, helping
him to appreciate beautiful things through his own
mental and manual approach.

Other Exhibits

Coincident with this exhibit of spinning and
weaving were three of like interest: an exhibition
of 19th century costumes in an adjacent gallery;
a fully equipped New England kitchen of I800;

and the Old Stone Schoolhouse, built in 1784,

which has been reerected in the Museum garden

and supplied with accurate furnishings of the
period. To adults or to school children studying

early life in America, these exhibits offered much
that was informative and appealing.

During the spring of 1940 a series of talks and
demonstrations was given with the cooperation of
local experts in weaving. The series included a
talk on the making of homespun coverlets, the
ever-popular demonstration of preparing flax and
wool, and hand weaving on different types of

 

PLAY MINI—GOLF

Teaches Novice o Lowers Score of Dub Golfer

Mini-Golf and Shufl-Off is playable in the recreation hall,
gym, church, parlor or on any smodth surface. Why not
start a small class in the rudiments of golf. Inexpensive
and simple to demonstrate.

You taught tennis through my game of Paddle Tennis.
Now try MINI-GOLF.

Send for catalogue of Paddle Tennis, Rounders, Pad-
minton, (Chinese) Chungua Chess and Shove Ha’Penny.

BEAL'S GAMES. Inc.

'277 FIFTH AVE" NEW YORK CITY MUrray Hill 442% -40

For information concerning

THE SCOTTISH DANCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA. write to
Beal's Games. Inc., 277 Fifth Avenue. New York City

looms. Announcements of the series were sent to
all those who were known to be interested in weav-
ing or old textiles, such as members of Associated
Handweavers, the Antiques Club of New Jersey,
the New Jersey Chapter—Early American Indus-
tries. Many who attended left their names with
the request that they be notified of future activities.

The Museum issued a revised selective list of
books on spinning and weaving. A glossary of
terms was compiled in answer to the many ques-
tions put by visitors. Inquiries and visitors alike
attest to the rapid growth of hand weaving in this
vicinity since the Museum first took notice of it

in 1937.

Fiesta—The South American Way
(Continued from page 227)

Refrescos

The refreshment table must come in for its
share of decoration according to the South Ameri-
can theme. An overflowing pottery bowl of fruit,
vegetables, gourds and peppers, or flowers might
serve as a centerpiece. A miniature oxcart or pack
burro is an alternative. Another suggestion is a
real South American scene with puppet figures.
(See “Pancho of Peru” in Homemade Dolls in
Foreign Dress by Nina R. Jordan * for directions
for such a scene.)

If buffet refreshments are provided, guests may
sit at small tables, on which are candles or small
South American flags in painted corks. Place mats
of colored cellophane over white paper or cloth
might be made with fringed edges. Use the pea-
nut parrot place cards previously described on the
tables.

Lime punch, ginger cookies, and candied fruits
will constitute light refreshments. More elaborate
refreshments may consist of a salad in the form

276

 

with 6%
- Mini/Al

Think of it! A new revolutionary feature,
the greatest time- and effort-saving improve-
ment ever placed on a typewriter! No more
setting margin stops by hand . . . '
The operator merely positions the car-

riage—MAGIC Margin does the rest.
“Trade Mark

 

ROYAL more than ever WORLD’S NO. 1 '[YPEWRITER

of a gaucho hat (a crown of cottage cheese on a
slice of pineapple with a ribbon of pimento or
green pepper), lime sherbert, and chocolate or

coffee.
Morral

After refreshments comes morral-—the grab
bag, a real South America custom and an excel—
lent way of distributing favors.

\Vrap small gifts, comical or otherwise, as
gaudin as possible. Place them all in the grab
bag. Each sefior and seiiorita draws a package
from the grab bag as a memento of this fiesta
north of the border.

And then for all it’s “Buenos noches” or in a
happier phrase, “Hasta mafianal”

* Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York. $2.00.

Dartmouth's Informal Natural

History Program

(Continued from page 243)
the campus who can be approached without any
hesitation. Many do come for his advice about

See I

DARTMOUTH’S INFORMAL NATURAL HISTORY PROGRAM

ROYAL TYPEWRITER 00., INC.
2 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y.
Branches and Representatives the World Over.

present courses or graduate work in natural his-
tory. Considerable instruction is given in the
held, and in the simplest, most direct manner,
without any texts, assignments, or grades.

Interest has been aroused again in the commu-
nity in natural history, and many of the older
people, although less active in the field work, at-
tend the indoor activities and give their support

to the program. Townspeople find the program a ;
link between the community and the College, and '

the College is glad to extend such services and to
cooperate with the community. Much information
about the local flora and fauna has been accumu-

lated and will become more valuable as time goes

on. Most importantly, students are spending some
of their free time on many worth-while outdoor
projects and are indirectly preparing themselves
for a richer life after graduation.

Dartmouth College, while not being able to alter
the traditional character of the fundamental
courses very appreciably, has seen ht to supple-
ment them with an active extracurricular program

 
  
  
 

 

 

  

  

of field activities. The College also has recognized
'1 its obligation to help train field men for the many
nature counselor and other positions available in
New England during the summer months.

Let's Stay Home and Play!
(Continued from page 244)

But not all the toys in the library are just lent
‘ out to be returned. Some of them may be had
, “for keeps.” A large supply of dolls from the
Vt’ork Projects Administration has enabled the
library directors to inaugurate a plan of “doll
‘ adoption.” Now the little pug-nosed girl who
stares so lovingly at the doll with the yellow hair
'1 knows that if the she takes good care of her bor—
rowed doll, in one month she may keep her. If
the girl is a library member, she gets her mother
to sign an application blank,'chooses the doll she
 wants and then hurries home with the new “baby”
it safely tucked under her arm. At the end of two
I and four weeks she brings her yellow-haired doll
back to the library for inspection. Then if she has
taken good care of the doll, the new mother is
given a certificate of legal adoption and the doll

is hers.

In the application blank signed by the child and
.er parents, the little girl promises to:

1. Name her doll
2. Return the doll for inspection
3. Keep her doll clean, give her good care

4. Keep her and not let her be inherited by another girl.

In January the girls and their adopted dolls at-
I tended the first of a series of “doll clinics” where
they were told how to care for their dolls and
keep them healthy and safe. Prizes were given
for the best dressed and cleanest dolls. And al—
though the clinics are held presumably for the
benefit of the adopted dolls, the little mothers will
probably be more careful in the future to brush
their own teeth and stay away from dangerous
streets.

\Vhile the children are busy with toys their
mothers and fathers, older sisters and brothers
find plenty of material for leisure-time use in the
home recreation library. The party kits made
available by the library contain complete plans for
parties based on many themes. Each one includes
carefully planned games, rules for playing, stunts,
quizzes, simple decorations and other ideas for

LET’S STAY HOME AND PLAY! 277

ORDER NOW. . .

ASSURE DELIVERY at: PRESENT PRICES!

 

UNIVERSAL PORTABLE BLEACHERS have long been quality
leaders, they now serve many of the leading school and
civic recreation centers. To avoid possible disappointment,
we recommend that you place your order now for this
season's use; not only will you secure prompt delivery but

you will also gain the advantage of our present low prices.

Write today for our descriptive bulletins. We will
gladly quote prices to meet your needs and other-
wise assist you in solving your seating problems.

UNIVERSAL BLEACHER CO.
CHAMPAIGN. ILLINOIS

real fun in a social center or at home. New sup-
plies are constantly being added to the little library
whose “grown—up” equipment ranges from playing
cards to second-hand tennis rackets. '

More than 200 records of folk and classical
music from nursery rhymes to operas may be
borrowed from the library. The records are used
for a week, then returned and exchanged for
others. This service is equally popular with the
serious student of music or the mother whose
children “get so tired of hearing the same records

all the time.”

A film library of over 150 films is also made
available to organizations and groups wishing to
borrow them. In nine months last year more than
60,000 people saw these educational, travel and
sports films, fables, comedies and animated nurs-
ery rhymes. Projectors and operators are fur-

nished by the library.
About a year ago there was a severe fire in the

building which houses the little library, and for
ten months some of the services had to be cur-
tailed. But the room has been rebuilt and the
library moved back into its old quarters the first
of November. Once again the people who live

278 . IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

west of Broadway are discovering that almost
under the shadow of Madison Square Garden
there is a library where boys and girls, mothers

and fathers can learn that it is fun to stay home
and play.

3 o o 0
Its Being Done In Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 269)

burgh. “Unfortunately all are not imbued with
civic pride. Warning signs do not deter vandals.
A child may pick a rare blossom. Only through
the fullest cooperation of every park visitor will
the goal be reached.”

Picnics. “Hungrytime Outdoors,” Bill Krause.
National Dairy Council, I 11 N. Canal Street, Chi-
cago. $.15 each, free in certain territories. Recipes
for outings.

Pigeons are in active service in World War II.
England alone has 100,000 carrier pigeons in
service.

“Miracle on W’ings,” J. Roger Darling, is a
fascinating account of homing pigeons in Natural
History, November 1940.

“Radio,” new merit badge pamphlet. Boy
Scouts of America, 2 Park Avenue, New York
City. Catalog No. 3333. Twenty cents.

Social Hygiene Defense Committee. Has your
community begun a long-range wholesome recrea-
tional program for the visiting men in uniform or
industrial workers? Do your homes, schools, and
churches provide appropriate teaching regarding
sex and family life? The keeping of pets is one
medium. Gear your community to preparedness
by the latest ideas of specialists. The American
Social Hygiene Association, 1790 Broadway, New
York City.

TVA Regional Recreation Study will be made
by National Park Service, Forest Service, Fish
and \Vildlife Service and state agencies. The up-
land watersheds for vacation use and the chain of

lakes as a source of recreation are to be surveyed
under leadership of Allen T. Edmunds, Nashville,
Tennessee.

I'Vhimey, Eh. “Whittling Boy,” the story of the
inventor of the cotton gin, by Roger Burlingame.
Harcourt, Brace, New York City, 370 pp. $3.00.

W'ilderness. Bob Marshall Wilderness Area,
one million acres set aside in Montana commemor-
ating one who had veneration for nature. Wilder-
ness areas contain no permanent inhabitants, no
mechanical conveyances, and are large enough in

which to get lost. They are primitive environments
where one survives by his own efforts.

A Community MeetsYouth's Problems
(Continued from page 248)

Records of participation show the following:
144 boys from twelve to seventeen years of ag
took part in softball; 193 boys and men over sev-
enteen participated in senior softball; 125 children
under ten attended playgrounds daily; 265 chil-i
dren under sixteen enjoyed an intensive swimming
and life-saving program; 60 children under SiX<’
teen were taught to swim; and 80 under eighteen |
years of age signed up for garden clubs. Forty
boys of junior and senior high school age were
members of a model airplane club; 80 Boy Scouts
took part in Scout softball, while many partici-
pated in picnics, hobbies, and tennis tournaments.

Among all ages there was a wholesome enthu-
siasm. The burgess and police offlcials reported a
decline in delinquency and better health conditions
among the youth. A spirit of cooperation, initia-
tive, and friendliness has been developed in thd
city. The adult population is taking a greater
interest in the young people and is more keenly
alive to their problems.

The experiment showed what can be done on a
limited amount of money. The program for 1939'
was conducted at a cost of $278, while the budget-
for 1940 was $450.

The Minstrel of the Appalachians

(Continued from page 251 )

Although the festival will probably continue to
hold first place in Lunsford’s affections, the recog-
nition it gives him has brought national honors.

In 1934, the National Folk Festival was 01'-
ganized in St. Louis. Lunstrd became a member
of the national committee and has taken large
groups to the national festival each year. For the
past three years he has been folk dance director
for the festival, now held each year in Washington.

He was invited, in the spring of 1935, to make
a series of seventy-nine master records, contain—
ing 31-2 folk songs and ballads, for Columbia
University. These 312 songs, taken from his per-
sonal memory collection of more than 500, are
also part of his manuscript collection of more
than 3,000 ballads and folk songs including vari—
ants, which is being edited and is nearly ready
for publication.

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 279

Jay B. Nash Honored

 

ECREATION WORKERS will want to know that
Jay B. Nash, Professor of Education and
Chairman of the Department of Physical Educa-
tion and Health, New York University, is presi-
dent-elect of the American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.

Jay B. Nash, after serving for three years as
instructor of physical education in the Oakland,
California, Public Schools, became Assistant
Superintendent of Recreation and Supervisor of
Physical Education in Oakland. From 1919 to
1926 he served as Superintendent of Recreation
and Director of Physical Education in that city.

Dr. Nash has always maintained his interest in
recreation and in the recreation profession, and
this interest has been reflected in many of his
books and magazine articles.

Nationally known as a lecturer and writer, Dr.
Nash is the author of a number of books. Many
of his articles have appeared in magazines and
newspapers. He has shared in the discussion at
the annual recreation congress.

 

 

In 1937, a group of dancers was invited to
perform at a White House garden party. They
had been trained by Lunsford in Alabama .as a
part of his work with his music unit of the Re-
settlement Administration.

When King George and Queen Elizabeth were
here, in 1939, Mrs. Roosevelt remembered Luns-

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of l

       

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Air Youth Horizons, April 1941
“Planning an Outdoor Contest” by Arthur J. Vhay.
How to conduct a model airplane contest

The Camping Magazine, March 1941
“Camp Is a Safer Place Than Home” by Ramone S.

Eaton
“Ten Tests for a Camp” by Elbert K. Fretwell

“Continuing the Camp’s Influence Around the Year”

by Ernest G. Osborne
“The Other Horn of the Dilemma” by Frank H.
Cheley. Discussion of camp director’s problems

The Camping Magazine, April 1941 ~

“The Challenge in Public Camping” by R. K. Atkinson

“Tree Conservation—A Camping Opportunity” by
Robert G. Lechner

“Purposeful Trips—A Program for Enriching Camp-
ing” by Herbert Bearl

“Possible Effects of the Selective Service Act on Or-
ganized Camping.” Report of the American Camp-
ing Association Committee, A. S. Arnold, Chair-
man

Camping World, April 1941
“Hail Olympia 1” by M. David Henkle. A substitute
for camper color wars
“Safety in Camp” by M. S. Koch, Jr. The volunteer
fire brigade and other safety controls

Channels, February-March 1941 -
“If You Say It in Pictographs” by Rudolf Modley
and Herbert C. Rosenthal

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, April 1941
“Safety and Hygiene in the School Swimming Pool”
by H. W. Craig

“Types and Conduct of Tennis Tournaments
Helen L. Russell

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1941

“Changing Philosophies in Camping” by Virginia D.
Bourquardez

“Persistent Functions of Dancing

Gloss

National Parks Bulletin, February 1941
Featuring: Pan American Policy for Nature Pro-
tection

Parks and Recreation, March 1941
“Public Park Notes from England” by J. W. Howarth

Service Bulletin (National Section on Women’s Athletics
of the American Association for Health, Physical Edu-

cation and Recreation), March 1941
“Play Day on a Budget” :by Jean Peters

Survey Midmonthly, April 1941
“Soldiers’ Saturday Night” by Gertrude Springer.
Activities for men in uniform in various com-
munities
“In Spite of Illness” by Katherine Burt Jackson. The
story of a recreation club for adolescent diabetics

“Tomorrow's Past” by Mary West Jorgensen. A
“Homeland Exhibit”

Your Sport, Spring 1941
“Highlighting Your Sports” by Kip Ross. Tech-
niques of taking sports snapshots
“Up From the City Streets” by Fessenden S.
Blanchard. Paddle tennis

”

by

H

by George M.

280 GOLD COAST THEATRE ON THE AIR!

PAMPHLETS

Announcements, Showers, and Birthday Parties by Natalie
Morgan
Reader Mail, Inc., 635 Sixth Avenue., New York,
price $.10

Arbor Day in Wyoming Schools by Charles D. Schreibeis

Old Travois Trails, Fort Philip Kearny, Banner,

VVyo., price $.75, single copy; $.50 each, 2 or more
copies

Bicycle Safety
National Safety Council, Inc., 20 North Wacker
Drive, Chicago, Ill., price $.10

The Camp Director’s Handbook. 1941 Season
Atkins Publishing Co., 152 W. 42nd St., New York

Camp Leaders Guide
Boy Scout Foundation of Greater New York, 120
“1. 42nd St., New York

Cooking Over the Campfire

Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.

ANN UAL REPORTS

American Association for Adult Education, New York
City

Recreation Department, Alton, Ill.; Recreation Depart-
ment, Brattleboro, Vt.; Recreation Commission, Dan-
ville, Va; Department of Parks and Recreation, De-
troit, Mich.; Recreation Board, Greenwich, Conn.;
Board of Park Commissioners, Hartford, Conn.; De-
partment of Recreation, Houston, Texas; Recreation
Commission, Lafayette, La.; Community Activities
Council, Lewisburg, Pa.; Recreation Board and Recre-
ation Department, Lincoln, Neb.; Playground Board,
Oak Park. Ill.; Municipal Play-ground Board, Ocean
City, N. J.; Bureau of Recreation, Philadelphia, Pa.;
Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Department, Phoe-
nix, Ariz.; Park Commission, Portland, Me.; Depart-
ment of Public Playgrounds and Recreation, Reading,
Pa.; Recreation Department, St. Paul, Minn.; Park
Department, Salem, Mass.; Bureau of Recreation,
Scranton, Pa.; Progressive Recreation and Social Ser-
vice Association, Scranton, Pa.; Department of Rec-
reation, Springfield, Ohio; Community Service, Wa-
bash, Ind.; Department of Recreation, West Hartford,

Conn.; Playground and Recreation Association of
Wyoming Valley, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

ford, and he was invited to bring a group of
dancers and musicians to the White House where
the royal couple was to be entertained by out-
standing and typically American artists.

To the spirited rhythm of banjo and fiddle, the
Soco Gap team from the Great Smoky Mountains
swung into the old figures: Wagon Wheel, Ocean
Wave, Dive and Shoot the Owl, LondOn Bridge,

and Kings Highway :

Hold your hands just like I do

And let King George’s men pass through.
Half way round and half back.

Hold your hands as high as the sky

And let King George’s men pass by.

Gold Coast Theatre on the Air!

EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT at 10:15 Pacific Stand~
ard Time on Station KYA the radio group
sponsored by the San Francisco Recreation Com
mission and the Northern California Drama As
sociation takes the air. The first venture is a serie
of thirteen old—time plays which appeared on
stages in San Francisco between 1850 and 1906.
The plays have been cut and adapted for the radio
by members of the group interested in play writ-
ing. There have been four broadcasts to date and
the' plays produced were: “Jack, the Jailbreaker”;
“Arkansas”; “M’Liss”; and “Shenandoah.” “A

Trip to Chinatown” will be the next play.

The project started early this year when the
officers of the Northern California Drama Asso-
ciation decided that a new venture was needed to
stimulate the interest of members of the drama
groups. The first meeting called was attended by
six people. In six weeks this number had increased
to sixty, and the enthusiasm and interest of the
group are unbounded. They would meet every
night and all night, if necessary, if the success of
the plays demanded it.

The group is composed of both men and women
most of whom work. Their work is as varied as
their backgrounds, but their common interest in
drama has drawn them together in this coopera-
tive efTort.

The producer is Richard H. Tate, youthful
director of plays and writer of radio scripts. He
is volunteering his services, as is everyone else.
Mr.Tate has the enthusiastic support of his group.

The plays are the prOperty of George Poultney,
native San Franciscan, who traveled to Broadway
by way of the Tivoli Opera Company. He has
played in all the Gilbert and Sullivan operas and
is a member of the London Gilbert and Sullivan

Society. I
Josephine Randall, Superintendent of the San
Francisco Recreation Commission, has given her

wholehearted support to the group and feels that
the results are gratifying—From .H ester Proctor,

Supervisor of Drama, San Francisco Recreation
Commission.

——'__—-———__—-____——_———_—-——
-——-—_—__—_—__-—_-—_———_——-

The spontaneous applause which greeted them
in the White House surely represented the high-
water mark in the career of a man who has
devoted himself to preserving and interpreting the
treasures of folk arts in the Southern Highlands.

 

HAVE YOU TRIED “RELICKING”? 281

AERIAL TENNIS DART

Similar to Badminton

Aerial Tennis Dart

ERIAL TENNIS DART, a comparatively new but
A very popular indoor-outdoor game for every-
one, is now being played in many sections of the
country. Like badminton, aerial tennis dart is
derived from the old game of battledore and shut-
tlecock, which was played in a number of coun-
tries over five hundred and fifty years ago. The
game was named for the instruments used in play-
ing. The battledore was a long handled paddle
used in much the same way as a tennis racket.
Although made entirely of wood, the better grades
had a head made of a frame over which parchment
was stretched or across which catgut was laced.
The shuttlecock was sometimes made of rubber
but more often of cork loaded with lead and
crowned with feathers. The feathers gave it a
spinning motion in the air and held the point first.
Its rapid motion as it was struck first by one player
and then by another across the net made it re-
semble a fast moving shuttle similar to that used
in weaving, and the feathers with which it was
equipped gave somewhat the appearance of a bat-
tling gamecock. Thus it came to be known as
shuttlecock. Originally the object of the game
was to prevent the shuttlecock from falling to the
ground as it was struck by means of a battledore.
The Chinese, always unusually skillful players,
strike the shuttlecock with the soles of their feet.

While similar in some respects to badminton
shuttlecock, the aerial tennis birdie is livelier, the
wooden paddle shorter than the badminton racket,
and-the court a little larger. The birdie, descend—
ant of the ancient shuttlecock, is made of a solid,
live rubber base, cup-shaped and about an inch in
diameter with a nipple point. It is equipped with
six of the strongest feathers obtainable. The pad-
dle is 17%, inches long, with a head of not more
than 21 inches in circumference. The handle is
built up in the same way as a tennis racket and is
finished with a leather tip. The head is of fir ply—
wood three-eighths of an inch thick, treated with
a special wood preservative. The ideal singles
court for the game is 20 feet by 50 feet; the
doubles court, 26 feet by 50 feet.

Many schools and playgrounds are giving the
game a prominent place in their programs, since
the birdie is especially adaptable to outdoor play
because of its rugged construction.

Nora: For this information about an interesting adap-
tation of an ancient game we are indebted to the Sells
Aerial Tennis Company in Kansas City, Kansas, makers
of aerial tennis dart equipment.

Excellent for
schools, play-

grounds and
military train-
ing camps.
Played indoors
or out. Singles
court 20'x50'.

Doubles court
25’x50 '.

A game of skill.
NOT A TO Y.
Economical be-
cause broken
feathers can be
replaced with
refills, pro-
longing life of
birdie.

Birdies haVe solid. live-rubber base with small nipple at tip:
each equipped with six selected white feathers. Paddles are of

%" plywood, with built up handles and leather tips. All equip-
ment minutely fashioned. Sent on approval.

SELLS AERIAL TENNIS COMPANY

4838 BELINDER ROAD KANSAS CITY. KANSAS

 

 

Have You Tried "Relicking?"
(Continued from page 240)

saw a small opening almost hidden by boulders
about ten feet above the water level in the steep
cliff that overhangs the river.

Robert climbed the cliff with difficulty, wormed
his way through the opening and dropped four or
five feet into what he readily recognized as an old
Indian shelter such as the ancient inhabitants of
the Hudson River valley used as a base for fishing
expeditions. Scattered on the floor were frag-
ments of Indian pottery. Because of his unusual
understanding of nature, wild life, and archae-

ology, he needed no second glance to understand
the importance of his find.

He took a few of the fragments to Mr. Burg-
graf, who identified them immediately as speci—
mens of Algonquin handiwork, new to experts of
the valley’s ancient iculture. Robert took Mr.
Burggraf and his assistant to the shelter, where
further exploring was done. On this visit Robert
made the most important find of all —an Algon-_
quin pipe, the first of its type discovered in the
valley, according to William H. Carr, director of
the Trailside Museum.

This pipe, with the other rare specimens of
Algonquin Indian pottery, arrowheads, and fish-
ing equipment all antedate Columbus and definitely
establish the fact that the Algonquin tribe of In-

dians preceded the Iroquois as inhabitants of the
Hudson River valley.

And the discoverer of all of this was a boy
who had been taking advantage of a part of the
recreation program which is offered in Bear
Mountain State Park.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Youth in Aviation

An Air Youth Manual for Leaders. D. Appleton-Century
Company, New York. $2.50.

THIS BOOK has been written specifically for teachers and
leaders of groups interested in aviation. It tells how
to organize junior aviation groups and how to plan a
program of activities, and gives information on the Air
Youth projects and their utilization in a youth program.
A complete section on gliding and soaring is included.
This Air Youth Manual for Leaders, one of the series
issued by the Air Youth of America, is intensely practical
in the material it offers.

Nature Games Book

By Elmo N. Stevenson. Greenberg: Publisher, New York.
$2.50.

HERE IS A BOOK dealing entirely with nature study
games and presenting “the play way of teaching
nature study.” The hundreds of games described have
been tested and found successful by either the author or
other educators, and they are all genuine fun to play.
They include games that teach the children to know
about animals, birds, trees, flowers, leaves, plants, stars,
and trails. The games are arranged according to these
subjects and in addition are classified both by age groups

and by occasion or place.

The American Craftsman

By Scott Graham Williamson. Crown Publishers, 444
Fourth Avenue, New York. $3.00.

N THIS 240-page volume, with its hundreds of illustra-

tions, Mr. Williamson tells the fascinating story of
the American genius for construction and for making
things. It is, too, the story of the early American crafts-
men—Paul Revere, Eli Whitney, Duncan Phyfe, Stiegel,
and those important though unknown craftsmen who
built the first houses, devised tools, developed the clipper
ship, and made useful furniture. The way they worked,
their hand processes, and techniques are described in de-
tail. The things they made are antiques now, collectors’
items, museum pieces, but in every home, in every art
and industry, in every phase of the present American
scene there is living evidence of the design, ideas, and
principles of these early craftsmen.

Arranging Flowers
By Margaret \Vatson. The Studio Publications, Incor-
porated, New York. $1.50.

IN THIS delightfully informal book the author lays down

a few simple rules and suggestions which will help in
transforming the appearance of a room. The emphasis
is on Hower arranging on a budget and the idea of “the
utmost at the least possible cost.” There are suggestions

282

   
  
  
   
  
    

for choosing the right fiowers, hints on their care, and
notes on containers. Twenty-six different fiower arrange
ments are presented through description and illustration

The Instructor Book of Program

Selections for All the Year

Edited by Helen Mildred Owen. F. A. Owen Publishin
Company, Dansville, New York. $1.00.

SUGGESTIONS for play production, a number of plays 0
different types, recitations, and songs make up thi
practical volume. The index is so arranged that it i
possible to find readily plays and programs for holidays,
special days, and occasions of various kinds.

Safety in the World of Today

By Herbert J. Stack, Don Cash Seaton, and Florenc
Slown Hyde. Beckley-Cardy Company, 1632 Indiana
Avenue, Chicago. $1.20.

THIS TEXTBOOK on safety education is designed for the
seventh, eighth, and ninth grades and fosters the ideal
included in the 1940 N.E.A. Safety Yearbook—“the de-
velopment of the knowledge, the attitudes, the habits, an
the skills that are necessary if we are to live with reason
able safety in the modern world.” Particular attentio
has been given to relate the material to the everyda
experiences of boys and girls. A chapter entitled “Safety
at School and at Play” discusses the problems of safety
in sports and recreation. ‘

Bait Casting
By Gilmer G. Robinson. Barnes Dollar Sports Library.
A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.

BAIT CASTING is a sport which is attracting many fisher—

men and would-be anglers. In this book the autho
analyzes and describes the fundamentals which make f
expert casting, lists the equipment necessary, and tell
how rod and reel may be kept in the best possible COUdIr:
tion. “Skish” (dry-land fishing) is fully described, to-
gether with rules and events.

Checkers

All the Answers on the Art of Successful CheZ‘ker Play-
ing. By Millard Hopper. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.00.

IN THIS VOLUME, one of Barnes’ Idle Hour series, Mr.
Hopper, known as the world’s unrestricted checker
champion, describes and illustrates situations occurring
in actual play. This makes it possible to follow his
strategy in solving difficult problems. Miniature checker-
board drawings illustrate every play.

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 283

The American Citizens Handbook.

Arranged by Joy Elmer Morgan. The National
Education Association of the United States, \Vash—
ington, D. C. $1.00.

There are both practical and inspirational helps for the
new citizen in this book with its information on how to
become a citizen and in its presentation of the Constitu-
tion, the' Declaration of Independence, and other charters
of democracy. There are also patriotic selections, poetry
and songs. and descriptions of heroes of American de-
mocracy. The book is a valuable contribution to the

' literature on citizenship and democracy.

The Women’s DivisiOn—
National Amateur Athletic Federation

Sixteen years of Progress in Athletics for Girls and
Women 1923-1939. By Alice Allene Sefton. Stan-
ford University Press, Stanford University, Calif-
ornia. $2.00.

Miss Sefton has performed a valuable service in re-
cording the history of the Women’s Division of the
N.A.A.F., which as a pioneer in the field, has played so
important a part in improving standards and practices

. in athletics and sports for women. There are many sug-
' gestions in this history which will .be of practical help
to both lay and professional leaders in athletics and
groups of all types, and to all interested in the promotion
of a sound program of athletics among all age groups.

 

Swimming Pool Data and Reference Annual—1940.

Earl K. Collins, Editor. Hoffman, Harris, Inc., 425
Fourth Avenue, New York. $3.00.

This, the most recent issue of the Annual, contains a
number of articles on construction of pools, including a
paper by C. P. L. Nicholls of Los Angeles on “Planning
the Recreational Swimming Pool.” There are also
articles on every phase of swimming pool programs such
as standards and regulations, water games, diving, and
swimming pool sanitation.

The American School and University 1941.

American School Publishing Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York. $2.50.

.This year’s issue of The American School and Univer-
my contains a number of articles on the planning of
schools many of which will be of interest to recreation
workers. In a section, “Planning for Community Use,”
Dr. Engelhardt of Teachers College, Columbia Univer-
SIty, and Edwin S. Fulcomer of Lincoln School discuss
the principles involved. Another practical section has to
do with “Physical Education and Athletics.” In addition
to the many articles presented by various authorities,
there are lists of college, university and normal school
presidents, presidents of junior colleges, heads of private
schools, and superintendents of schools in cities of 5,000
population and over.

A Modern Physical Education
Program for Boys and Girls.

By Vaughn S. Blanchard and Laurentine B. Collins.
A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $2.00.

Much of the material in this publication was originally
used in the course of study for the Detroit public schools.
All the activities in the program for the intermediate
grades are described in simple terms. The material has
been _classified under: An Approach to Curriculum
Building; Organization and Administration; the Gym-
nasium .Program; Dance; the Playground Program; the
vaimmmg Program; the Health Program; and Supple-
mentary Material. In the section on the playground
Program directions are given for playing a number of
games, and teaching procedures are presented.

Chart for Happiness.

By Hornell Hart. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.00.

After ten years of research at Stanford, Columbia,
Chicago and Duke Universities, Dr. Hart has presented
a scientifically prepared chart for measuring individual
happiness in relation to effective living and working. .T he
book describes the “Euphorimeter,” as the device is
called, and gives instructions for its use. People who are
interested in tests and measurements will want to ex-

amine this book.

Campcraft A B C’s—For Camp Counselors.

By Catherine T. Hammett. Available from the author
at 684 Riverside Drive, New York. $1.00.

This book has been written especially for the counselor
in a camp where the bays or girls have come to live out
of doors. Many of the suggestions, however, apply
equally well in a city situation where a group may utilize
winter or spring days to prepare for hikes and summer
camps. In the book practical steps are. offered for learn-
ing and using camping ways and techniques and methods
of interesting groups. “There is nothing that is really
new,” says the author, but she points out that all of the
suggestions “have worked somewhere for some person or
some group.” And this very fact makes it of very real
value. Recreation workers and leaders of young people
will want to add this attractive book to their libraries.

Look at the “Y”!

By James Lee Ellenwood. Association Press, 347
Madison Avenue, New York. $1.50.

Here is the story of the Y.M.C.A. with bird’s-eye views
of present aims, activities, and growth. It's about the
“Y” at Midville, which is not on the map but which is a
real city nevertheless. Through Mr. Ellenwood’s eyes
you will see Midville boys bowl, play pool, use the
gymnasium, and debate public issues. In a word, you
will see the “Y” at work.

Play: A Yardstick of Growth. ”

By Clara Lambert. Summer Play Schools Commit-
tee of the Child Study Association of America, 1841
Broadway, New York. $.25.

For over twenty years the Child Study Association of
America through its Summer Play Schools Committee
has been conducting play schools. These schools had
their inception during the World War when they were
primarily an effort to organize community resources to
meet the needs. In this pamphlet Clara Lambert dis-
cusses some of the values of play, particularly of group
play, and tells of the space, materials, and equipment
necessary. A particularly interesting section of the book-
let is “Play and the Environment,” and here are practical
suggestions on acquainting children with their surround-
ings. Various forms of play are enumerated and their
values pointed out. Recreation workers will find much of
interest in this booklet.

Safety-Wise—Health and Safety Aids
for Girl Scout Leaders.

Girl Scouts, Inc., 14 West 49th Street, New York.
$.10.

This booklet of health and safety suggestions for Girl
Scout leaders has much to offer recreation workers, espe—
cially in Part II which deals with Health and Safety
Practices for Special Program Activities such as bicycl-
ing, sports, swimming, boating, horseback riding, and
overnight trips. Part I has to do with General Health
and Safety Practices for All Occasions, and Part III
with Ways to Carry Out Health and Safety Practices.

284 NET/V PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Leaders for Adult Education.

By Harry A. and Bonaro W. Overstreet. American
Association for Adult Education, New York. $1.50.

“A leader is one person who counts as more than one.”
This is the opening sentence of Dr. and Mrs. Overstreet’s
challenging report on leadership training, and as the
authors review the findings of their visits to centers
where training in adult education is conducted, they con-
clude it is a true statement. At the end of a year of
“going up and down the highways and byways” they
confess a happy amazement at the “vigor and ingenuity
with which leaders throughout the country are working
to produce more leaders of a kind the movement requires.”

The book discusses the qualities of the adult education
leader and the scape of leadership and methods of train-
ing. Quite as significant as the facts presented and the
accounts of training centers and experiments are the
insight, understanding, and power of interpretation which
make this book so important a contribution to the appre-
ciation of leadership training today and its possibilities
for the future.

A Church Program for Defense Areas.

By Leland Foster Wood. American Social Hygiene
Association, 1790 Broadway, New York. Single
c0pies $.10; per 100, $2.50.

This little six page pamphlet is a very helpful docu-
ment for use in communities near the defense industrial
area and related to the defense camp community service.
Dr. Wood, who is Secretary of the Committee on Mar—
riage and the Home, Federal Council of Churches in
America, states the problem briefly and clearly, quotes
the authority of the Federal Council of Churches in urg-
ing religious and social agencies to form a general oom-
munity body through which all may cooperate in serving
the trainees, cites resources Of the churches in personnel,
buildings and other facilities, and suggests twelve definite
ways in which churches can be of help to the trainees and
to industrial workers.

The Garden Clinic—Care and
Cultivation of Garden Favorites.

By Laurence Blair. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.00.

The author has chosen about a hundred garden
favorites including annuals, perennials, bullbs, evergreens,
shrubs, vines, and flowering trees, and through pictures
and the text has given step-by-step methods of cultiva-
tion. The result is practical pictorial “how-to-do-it” ma-
terial which garden hobbyists will find exceedingly
valuable.

Adventuring for Democracy.

By Wilbur C. Phillips. Social Unit Press, 118 East
28th Street, New York. $3.00.

Can demOcracy be made to work? Wilbur Phillips says
it can if we can only find a new pattern of organization
which will give complete democracy plus efficiency in
planning and management. For many years Mr. Phillips
has searched for such a pattern, and in Cincinnati in 1917,
under his leadership, there emerged a Social Unit Plan
under which plan ordinary peOple organized themselves
by small geographic units and occupational groups to
improve the conditions under which they lived and to get
things done and done well. This experiment led to long
research whose main conclusions have produced the Social
Unit plan, “1940 model,” and the Organizing Committee
for Social Union.

It is a delightfully written book, this story of the
search by a man and his wife for a workable pattern of
democracy, and a human document well worth reading
for a variety of reasons.

Writing As a Hobby.

By Donald MacCampbell. Harper and Brothers, Ne
York. $2.00.

If your hobby is writing—and who doesn’t at som
time feel the urge to write ?—you will find this book ver
helpful. In it the beginning writer will learn formula
which exist for the successful writing of memoirs, arti
cles, book reviews, plays, children’s stories, and othe
forms of literature. And if it is necessary for you t
have some financial return from your writing, you wi
find a list of markets at the end of each chapter suggest
ing where your manuscript may be sent.

    
   

Let’s Bind a Book.

By Guy A. Pratt, B.S., M.S. The Bruce Publishin
Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $2.00.

“One need not be an expert to find joy in bookbindin
as a leisure-time activity,” says Mr. Pratt in his prefac
“but one should have acquired considerable knowledg
of the subject and skill in the craft before he attempts t
sell his services to others.” In this volume Mr. Prat
shows just how books are bound and offers clear, step
by-step instructions. The directions are preceded by .
brief history of the craft and a discussion of the material
and the equipment needed, much of which can 'be mad
in the home or in the school shop.

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. VVINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLs, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary to the Bear
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIs, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDnLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT Woons BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRs. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAYISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THoMAS A. EnIsoN, West Orange, N. J.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILIE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
RoBERT.LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRs. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, \Vasliington, D. C.

