Mobilize Now

RECREATION is a way of life. Freedom and liberty are of its very nature for us.

Mussolini, Hitler, and Stalin use recreation for their own purposes and use it

largely, but_in such recreation—without freedom—“there would be for us not
joy but bitterness.

Our joy of life—our strength—is in the way of liberty. A victory for Nazism
in the end threatens a loss of recreat1on as we now know it.

Our music, our poetry, our drama, our art, even our sports, enter a changed era
with such a victory—perhaps not immed1ate1y, but eventually.

It would be only a matter of time until the American regime and the Nazi Euro-

'pean regime would clash. With the passing of the years the Europe then would be

stronger than the Europe now. The plan of life of such a Europe entrenched would
be hard to fight. The battle would be on more difficult terms.

The clash is between ways of life—even though the fire started from other causes.

I The recreation movement has therefore the most profound, deepest interest in the
.‘present confhct.

It is not for the recreation movement to take stands upon political, religious, eco-
'Enom1c 1ssues. But we cannot remain silent and inactive when all that we stand for. all
that we care for, all that we are, is threatened by a head-on attack which would abolish
'iberty.

The recreation movement as a way of life challenges what Nazism stands for, is
':hallenged by all that Nazism is.

It is not for the recreation movement to take up the question whether America
:hould or should not enter the war, should or should not declare war. Are we not
nearly all agreed, however, that the world issues at stake are so fundamental and so
_ )ostile to all that America is, to all that makes life in America beautiful, that the time

us come to mobilize all our resources, to pull ourselves together, to go into all—out
. erV1ce tra1n1ng?

And in any such complete mobilization of the spirit, the recreation movement has a
major part to play.
Our defense program—munitions, ship building, aircraft production, tank-build—

rng, training of man power, morale building—demands nearly the same concentration

la.)f effort as if we were actually at war.

:- There is no use starting for the boat unless you plan to arrive on time. There is no
.11me to spare if we catch the boat.

| .There is no gain lifting the trunk at all unless you plan to lift it clear up to the
‘ tat1on platform. ” '

.h . The fundamental issue in this world struggle is freedom——freedom of the spirit—
tliberty under democratic discipline as a way of life. What is central to the recreat1on
{movement 1n America is the central issue of the present world struggle.

We need complete spiritual mobilization now.

C

lEBRUARY :94:

 

 

637

February

‘

Photo by Ray Forsba

 

638 ,

The National Education-Recreation Council

HE NATIONAL Education-

Recreation Council really

came into being as a result of a request from
a representative of the federal government. On
April 8, 1932, I conferred with Fred Croxton,
who was working in Washington under President
Hoover on the problem of organization of unem—
ployment relief. Several of the leaders at Wash-
,ington were very much concerned about the large
lumber of boys and girls out of employment and
‘Jnable to find work who were above the school
tge, many of them under twenty-one years of age,
.vho were traveling about through the southern
:ities. Sometimes as many as 150 such young—
ters passed through a given community in a sin—
gle day. In one state, special trucks were picking
Ftp the traveling youngsters and carrying them to
he county line where the sheriff of the next
“punty took them to the next county line. More
pd more girls, wearing overalls and men’s cloth-
g, were traveling with the boys. Mr. Croxton
.rged that something must be done in the com-
"hunities to care for the extra time which the
‘oungsters above school age had.

 

  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

 

Program for Unemployed Youth

Mr. Croxton asked if I would take the leader-
hip in somehow getting a program drafted as to
that could be done for the free time of the un-
mployed youngsters beyond school age. He
ipnted a pronouncement which could be sent out
itrough the federal government and which could
lso be sent through the national leisure-time or-
anizations to their locals. Mr. Croxton agreed
' at it would be helpful if district field workers
I l the national leisure time societies could be en-
. sted to help. Mr. Croxton
l eported that the federal gov-
. rnment was constantly being
rged to endorse new move-
:ients for providing r‘ecrea-
on for unemployed youth,
int he thought it would be
letter if the problem could be
lorked out through the ex-
.tmg organizations.

Mr. Croxton was much
leased with the reports
hich I gave him about what

By HOWARD BRAUCHER

"There is much which national leisure
time organizations have in common, and
it is a national asset to have a plan
of self-coordinationI of cooperationI of
working together—rather than to leave
to some outside group the working out

of a degree of unity
in this field. There is much thinking and

planning which needs to be done for
the entire field. and this is better done
when all the individual agencies to-

gether face what is being done. what
is neglected, what is still needed."

and understanding

was being done for the unem—
ployed in New York, Philadel—
phia and other cities in giving leadership for
recreation to the unemployed. Though Mr. Crox-
ton particularly emphasized the necessity of mak-
ing life in the home communities more attractive
so that youth could be kept at home, yet he wanted
it clearly,underst00d that this was but a fraction
of the program, that spare time programs ought to
belworked out which would have value for all the
unemployed as well as for those who were most
likely to start traveling.

In response to Mr. Croxton’s request, a group
of representatives from the national leisure time
agencies were called together and a statement
worked out which was forwarded to Mr. Crox—
ton. Over the long-distance telephone on April
26, 1932, Mr. Croxton expressed himself as very
happy about this statement. At his request it was
indicated that this material had been prepared at
the request of the President’s Organization of the
Unemployment Relief. "

Joint Field Service

Mr. Croxton put this question to the national
leisure time organizations: What could these or-
ganizations do to free a limited number of field
representatives who might work in different areas
on this entire problem of making life more attrac—
tive and more meaningful for unemployed youth
with particular reference to encouraging them to
stay at home? Three of the national organizations
freed workers to help on this problem.

Among the organizations sending representa-
tives to these early conferences were:

American Library Association

Boys’ Clubs of America

Federal Council of the Churches
of Christ in America

Jewish Welfare Board

Knights of Columbus

National Board, Y.W.C.A.’s

National Council, Y.M.C.A.’s

National Recreation Association

National Federation of Settlements
A meeting of representa—

tives of these organizations

was held on April 21, 1932.

The statement on a leisure

time program for unemployed

639

640 THE NATIONAL EDUCATION-RECREATION COUNCIL

youth was approved. Later, after this statement
had been slightly modified by Mr. Croxton, these
organizations received copies which were mailed
to their local affiliated groups. Local societies
were urged to pool their experiences, their think-
ing, their resources, and were urged to unite in
forming a local committee to work on the common

problem.

The first memorandum reporting on the results
of the field work which had been done by Dr.
W’orth M. Tippy, Eugene T. Lies, John W. Faust,
A. R. \Vellington and also a representative of the
Jewish Welfare Board whose name is not' recorded
but who had visited cities in New York, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania, bears the heading “Co-
operative Committee on Recreation Activities for
the Unemployed.” At this meeting the following
resolutions were adopted:

“That it is the sense of this meeting that a continuing
committee be organized to be known as the EDUCATION—
RECREATION COUNCIL to continue the cooperative service
to localities which has been given in the name of the Co-
operative Committee on Recreation Activities for the Un-
employed and to which may be referred all problems and
questions requiring cooperative planning and concerted
action on the part of member agencies of the Council.

' “That the officers of the Education-Recreation Council
shall be Chairman and Vice-Chairman, each to serve for
a period of six months.

“That R. K. Atkinson, Chairman of the Cooperative
Committee on Recreation Activities for the Unemployed,
be elected to serve as Chairman of the Education-Recre-
ation Council for the six months’ period ending March

3lst.”
It was also recorded:

“It was agreed that the National Education-Recreation
Council be rec0gnized as cooperating closely with the
National Social Work Council but not as an integral
part of it.”

Civilian Conservation Corps

In the fall of 1933, E. C. Worman, then on the
staff of the National Council of the Y.M.C.A.,
reported as Chairman of the Civilian Conserva-
tion Corps committee. This committee, however,
represented the health field as well as the leisure
time field, and reports were given at meetings of
the National Social Work Council as well as at
meetings of the National Education-Recreation
Council, and funds contributed were placed with
the National Social Work Council. However, it
is interesting to record that the national leisure
time organizations cooperated effectively under
the leadership of E. C. Worman in working in
behalf of recreation for the Civilian Conservation

Corps camps. The request for help came largely
from the local Civilian Conservation Corps camp
leaders rather than from the Washington head-

quarters.

One Field Worker Represents All

It was agreed that a single representative of the
National Education-Recreation Council, E. T.
Lies, should go to Erie, Pennsylvania, to repre-
sent the Council as a whole and to report back to
the entire Council on the leisure time program in
that city. David Liggett, working under the Com-
munity Chests and Councils, was making a leisure'
time study in Erie and it was considered desirable
that someone should go to Erie who should think
of the total leisure time problem there from the
point of view of the community as a whole rather.-
than as representing any single agency. At a latte
time E. T. Lies studied the entire leisure time
situation in Reading, Pennsylvania, for the Coun—L
'cil as a whole. The Federal Council of the Churches
of Christ in America made c0pies of this report
and such copies were sent to each organization in:
the Council. E. T. Lies later made studies of
other cities and reported on the entire leisure time
program in a number of these cities. The four
Oranges in New Jersey and Maplewood, New!
Jersey, were among the cities reported on. '

Cooperation with National Youth
Administration

At various meetings of the Council there was.
consideration of different federal government:
plans for youth. On September 25, 1935, thertl
was a special meeting with Aubrey Williams 0}
the National Youth Administration. Aubrey Wil
liams met several times with the Council. Orr:

meeting was held with a representative of th
Children’s Bureau. l

Other Tasks and Responsibilities f
Through the years there has been notable progr’
ress in exchanging experience between the variou'
organizations. Leading executives in the leisur
time field have frankly reported the difficult prob
lems they were facing and how they were attempl
ing to meet these problems. There has been a
attempt always to keep the most complete freedot
in the expression of opinion on all kinds of que:
tions relating to youth and to leisure time.
The Council has reviewed leisure time and ref
reation surveys, has given thought to the problex
of training in the leisure time field, has discusse

   
   
  

THE NATIONAL EDUCATION-RECREATION COUNCIL 641

the ChUrches in relating to recreation, the use of
f7 volunteers.

The National Education—Recreation Council has
given an Opportunity for clearing common prob-
lems in the national leisure time field instead of

‘attempting to organize a new grOUp to consider
l‘each problem arising. This has eliminated the
l waste and annoyance of frequent meetings of rep-
“ resentatives of the same organizations as members

of different committees each concerned with only
u one specific problem.

Though the National Education-Recreation Coun-
,cil has been entirely separate and distinct from the
,National Social Work Council, yet from time to
.time reports have been given to the National Social
.VVork Council so that there might be a full clear-

ing of ideas between the various groups that work
| in the community field.

1 There has been great gain for leaders in the
‘ leisure time field to come to know each other well,
Ito come to know the programs of the various co-
operating societies and bureaus and departments.
It has also been very much worth while to have
lopportunity to face the leisure time problem as a
thole and to think in terms of what men, women
and children need as well as in terms of what
present national organizations are doing.

 

 

‘ The National Education-Recreation Council has
Hbeen unique in that it has never had any written
Wonstitution, there has never been any appeal for
’iunds, there has never been a treasurer, and no
~ifunds have ever been received in behalf of the
.r..\Tational Education-Recreation Council. The fol-

lowing persons have served as Chairman :

‘ R. K. Atkinson—Boys’ Clubs of America
. Jay A. Urice—National Council, Y.M.C.A.’s
I Lester Scott—Camp Fire Girls
l

Lillie M. Peck—National Federation of Settlements

i The following persons have served as Vice-
:hairman: "

Lillie M. Peck—National Federation of Settlements

Ralph A. Beals—American Association for Adult
Education

, Arthur A. Sehuek—Boy Scouts of America
l

I The following persons have served as Secretary:

, Arthur M. \Villiams—National Recreation Association
' E. C. \Vorman—National Recreation Association

I At the meeting of the National Education-Rec—
:cation Council held in \Nashington, D. C., on
.l'eptember 18, 1940, the chairman announced in

'ille open session that the meetings of the Council

are regularly held on the third Friday of each
month at 12:30 and that all the federal bureaus
and departments represented were free to send
representatives. No active national recreation

group actually doing work in localities applying
for permission to send delegates has ever been

turned away, so far as I know. The National
Park Service for a time had designated delegates,
also the 4-H. Several times a representative of
the National Youth Administration and the Work
Projects Administration was present.

MEMBER ORGANIZATIONS

National Education-Recreation Council

American Association for Adult Education, New
York City '

American Association of Museums, \Vashington,
D. C.

American Country Life Association, New York
City

American Federation of Arts, Washington, D. C.
American Library Association, Chicago, Illinois
Boy Scouts of America, New York City

Boys’ Clubs of America, New York City

Camp Fire Girls, Inc., New York City

Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in

America (Department of the Church and Social
Service), New York City

Girl Scouts, Inc., New York City
Jewish Welfare Board, New York City

Knights of Columbus, Boy Life Bureau, New
Haven, Connecticut '

National Board of Y.W.C.A.’s, New York City

National Conference of Catholic Charities, Wash-
ington, D. C.

National Council of Y.M.C.A.’s, New York City

National Education

D. C.

Association, \Vashington,

National Federation of Settlements, New York
City

National Recreation Association, New York City
National Social Work Council, New York City
4-H Clubs, \Vashington, D. C.

Building Cooperation in Education-Recreation

Federal agencies and national organizations meet
in Washington to, discuss their mutual interests

Recreation Council developed, the question

was frequently raised as to how the organi-
zations sending delegates to the Council could best
relate their work to the programs of the various
federal bureaus interested in recreation. As it was
recognized that it is difficult for the federal
bureaus to be sending representatives to meetings
held in New York City, the suggestion was made
that occasional meetings might be held in Wash—
ington. Recreation leaders in variOUS departments
at W'ashington were seen, and fifteen federal
agencies agreed to attend a meeting of the Coun-
cil if it were held in Washington. Accordingly,
September 18, 1940, was fixed as the date for a
conference.

Brief statements about their work were gathered
from the various national organizations and the
federal government bureaus. These were mimeo-
graphed and circulated in advance among those
who were to attend.

Each representative from a federal bureau
spoke briefly at the meeting on the problems faced
and the cooperation desired, and at the end of the
conference Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, who had
stayed throughout the morning meeting, placed
before the group the question of what we can do
through recreation to increase the realization of
what citizenship means in a democracy.

At this meeting there, was very little time for
discussion. Many of the representatives from the
federal government expressed a desire for a later
meeting where there would be more opportunity
for such discussion. The chairman of the Council
later sent out a letter asking whether there was
still a desire that an additional conference should
be held. The replies indicated that another meet-
ing would be helpful, and plans are now being
perfected for a second meeting of the National
Education-Recreation Council to be held in Wash—
ington, D. C., within the next few weeks. Many
suggestions as to subjects to be discussed at the
conference already have been received.

The statements about the federal agencies and
the national private recreation organizations are

642

AS THE PROGRAM of the National Education—

being put together in this issue of RECREATION, in
order that there may be a fuller knowledge of
what is being done in the national leisure-time
field by both national government and private
agencies and that a larger degree of understanding
and cooperation may be made possible.

A Message of Welcome
By LILLIE M. PECK

Chairman
National Education-Recreation Council

ROM TIME TO TIME one or more representatives
F of government agencies have come to meet}
ings of the National Education-Recreation
Council in New York to tell of some aspect oi
their work; or representatives of the national
agencies have gone to Washington to confer with
some one department. Never before have we hat
the opportunity to sit down for frank discussiog
of the ways in which we can be most helpful tc
each other.
The National Education-Recreation Council 
a very informal group which meets at luncheoi
once a month from September or October througll
May to discuss any subject which seems to cu
across the interests of the members who are repre
sentatives of national agencies having to do witl
leisure-time interests and informal education.
In a 'sense we are connected, rather loosely t: 4

 

be sure, with a similar and larger organization, thw
National Social Work Council. This is a groujl,
of social work agencies which has met regularl;
for conference for twenty years. However, j
number of the educational agencies belonging 
the National Education-Recreation Council do no
belong to the other group and there is no organi
relationship. A small group such as the Nationé
Education-Recreation Council can bring about
mutual understanding and respect, and this make
cooperation easy when something is to be done.
The Council has undertaken a number of join.
projects in. cooperation with the Mobilization f0

(Continued on page 693)

Federal Agencies in Education-Recreation Field

It is, perhaps, not sudiciently known how widespread and varied
are the activities of a number of federal agencies in the field
of education-recreation. A bird’s-eye view of some of these ser-
vices will show the deep concern of the Federal Government that
all citizens everywhere shall have the opportunity to enjoy richer,

fuller living through

 United States Forest Service

By ERNEST WALKER
Chief Landscape Architect

Division of Recreation and Lands
l

; BOUT THIRTY forest officials and administra—
 tors were called into Washington three years
I ago last January, and they remained for
lltbout three months, some of them a little less and
home of them a little more than that. At that time
i’hey took up the various phases of recreation-—
ytdministration of recreation, maintenance of areas,
" .md all that sort of thing. But you can realize how
llitlicult it is to bring thirty people together and
Fret their ideas in papers and through discussions,
,..nd then synchronize those ideas into something
that is really interesting and valuable. Finally, the
I 'Forest Outings” material was turned over to a
pedal writer, Russell Lord, and the book came
.|,,~ut in the summer. If you want to know some-
lhing interesting about the recreation of national
,orests, I would suggest that you read that book.
‘ To give you the policies of the Forest Service
.1 recreation would be a long, drawn-out process,
to I would just touch on some of the high spots.
llaturally, you can realize that when you have
75,000,000 acres of land in forty-one states and
uihe Territories of Alaska
lind Puerto Rico, the prob—

the facilities and leadership provided.

of other national-forest resources under the mul-
tiple-use plan of management. By multiple-use
plan of management we mean giving proper em—
phasis to all resources, such as timber, forage and
watersheds ; in short, good land use planning. This
involves determination of the areas on which the
recreational values are so important as to justify
dominant or exclusive consideration; the areas
where recreation and other uses are of approxi-
mately equal importance and may be enjoyed con—
currently with relatively minor mutual concessions
in management; and the areas where either recre-
ational values are so small or other uses so im-
portant as to call for subordination of recrea—
tional use.

That, you might say, is the broad policy of mul-
tiple use. Areas of special value for recreation
would be identified, protected, and suitably man-
aged in order to bring about a balanced program
providing for all forms of recreation appropriate
in the forest. This will include, at one extreme,
adequate provision for such concentrated use as
on camp grounds, picnic grounds, organization
camps, resort areas, and the like; and at the other,
setting aside substantial areas where natural con—
ditions will be retained, including wilderness, wild,
and virgin areas.

The planning and development of the recrea-

tional resource and the nec-
essary adjustments with

am of administration is a
'ery difficult one, even
'lhough only a small percent—
,ge of that is desirable for
'iecreation planning and man-
[gement

1 The recreation resources
if the national forests will
:e so managed as to pro-
7ide for their fullest use
)nsistent with suitable use

 

ln pretacing his statement Mr. Walker said
that what he had to present would be broken
down into three parts—the general activity
represented, a statement of the policy gov-
erning the educational-recreational aspects
of the U. S. Forest Service; and tinallyI in-
tormation regarding "Forest Outings." re-
cently OFF the press. "The Forest Service."
said Mr. WalkerI "recognizing the oppor-
tunities for recreation in various areas
throughout the United Statesl wants to do
everything possible to put these opportuni-
ties at the disposal of all the people."

other uses will be conducted
in cooperation with all
groups interested in recrea-
tion or other resources. So
we naturally are very happy
to contribute what we can
to a meeting of this charac-
ter. The organization of
local and general associa—
tions of those interested in
recreation to act in an ad-

643

644 UNITED STATES FOREST SERVICE

visory capacity in national-
forest recreation planning
will be encouraged.

Priority in the expendi—
ture of federal funds to
care for visitors to the na-
tional forests will be given
to those developments which
can take care of the most
visitors for a given unit of
expenditure. Under this
principle the following pri—
ority order will usually be
recognized: Camp grounds
and picnic grounds, organi-
zation camps, resorts. Pref-
erence will also be given to
recreational developments
which emphasize opportuni-
ties for participant rather
than spectator enjoyment of forest-recreation
activities.

A good illustration of that is what we are try-
ing to do on our winter sports areas. Instead of
developing numerous areas for experts and spe—
cialists and professionals—of course we are not
leaving them out—we are endeavoring to concen-
trate on areas where the people of average ability
have an opportunity to enjoy winter sports such
as ski runs, toboggan slides, and so on.

Particular attention will be given to facilities
for the use of those in the low-income groups who
can enjoy forest recreation only if its cost is small.
This means emphasis on both camping and pic-
nicking facilities, and organization camps owned
by the government and made available to those
sponsoring vacations for low-income groups.

The Forest Service will develop or permit the
development of such facilities as will aid in the
enjoyment of those types of recreation appropri-
ate for the forest environment. In our designing
of recreation facilities, one of our objectives is
that the facilities and construction Fit into forest
surroundings. It will exclude inappropriate de-
velopments, and especially those that tend to in—
troduce urbanization into the forest. In all develop-
ments the aim will be to have them harmonize as
much as possible with the natural environment.

The recreational developments on the national
forests will be managed so as to complement rather
than compete with those available on other public
lands in the same locality. Similarly, duplications
will be avoided of developments on private lands

 

ERNEST WALKER

which care adequately for
the public needs under con-
ditions and rates compara-
ble to those on the national
forests.

I can give you a good il-
lustration of _this. There are
nice boat trips out of Ketch-
ikan, Alaska, and last year
the Forest Service was ar-
ranging trips for the pleas-
ure of travelers and tour-
ists in Alaska. There is a
private resort development,
including a spring, that has
been struggling along over
a number of years, and has,
it seems to me, done a very
good job. The Forest Ser-
vice has in the same general
area springs which are really far superior. How-
ever, instead of going in and developing these
where the need is not pressing, we feel that the
logical and right thing to do is to let the existing
resort owners go ahead with their private develop—
ments. In other words, in our recreational plan-

 

ning, programs, policies, and procedures, ‘we try ‘

to synchronize these with other activities, national,

state, private, and others, so that a balance of rec- ‘

reational uses is maintained. When we find an
area that is being well provided by the state or any
other agency, naturally we don’t try to emphasize
that out of line with recreational needs.

The recreational use of the national forests will
be handled with the fewest possible restrictions on
users consistent with the protection of the forest
against destruction or damage, and observance of

essential sanitary and safety measures, and the .1

prevention of actions by individuals or groups
which would unduly interfere with the enjoyment
of others.

The National Park Service

By CONRAD L. WIRTH

Supervisor
Recreation and Land Planning

HE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE was established
by Act of Congress approved August 25, 1915,
to provide recreation for the American people
through use of the national parks and monuments.
During the twenty-three years of its existence the

 

THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 645

1 Service, while fulfilling its
original responsibility, has
been given added duties and
functions in the field of
public recreation and infor-
mal education which place
it now in a position of lead-
ership in the movement for
outdoor recreation in the
United States.

From the establishment of
the Yellowstone as the first national park in 1872
until the National Park Service was created, the
national parks and monuments had grown steadily
in number but were administered under a dis~
jointed method of operation which divided respon—
sibility among several bureaus of the government.

Induced by his friend, Secretary of the Interior,

Franklin K. Lane, to take an official part in fur-
thering the cause of national parks, the late
Stephen T. Mather joined the Interior Depart-
ment in 1915 and was largely responsible for de-
velopment of the system and creation of the Ser-
vice of which he became the first director. Trans—
fer to the Interior Department of certain national
monuments administered by the Departments of
War and Agriculture finally resulted in consolida-
tion of the entire system of areas under the one
bureau.

Until recent years the unit constituting the na—
:_tional park system, with the exception of Acadia
.National Park in Maine, had been created out of
“the public domain of the
{western half of the country.

owever, in order to pro-
vide for a more equitable
"distribution of national
areas, several national parks
and a number of national
monuments have been es-
.tjablished in the East, usually
as the result of donations of
land by individuals, or state
or local governments. An
important development has
been the introduction of new
Lypes of park Units known
{18 national recreational areas
and national parkways, ex-
tgnples of which are Boulder
Dam and Cape Hatteras Na-
;ional Recreational Areas,
Ind the Blue Ridge Park-

   
   
  
 
   
   
  
  

"The broad' new concept of recreation has
its basis in better understanding of the
meaning of conservation. The most potent
resource of the nation is the people them-
selvesI and to this human wealth are dedi-
cated all of the other resources of the
country. Thereforel 'conservation of its
human resources is the chief function of
government' and one in which recreation
plays as important a part as educationI
healthI or any of the other social problems."

 

CON RAD L. W! RTH

way. Under its emergency
program, also carried on
during this recent period—
since 1933—the Service is
likewise responsible for the
administration, operation
and maintenance of forty-
three recreational demon-
stration areas with a total
acreage of 341,655, which
are located in densely popu-
lated sections of twenty—four states, usually where
there is deficiency__in outdoor recreation facilities.

Eighty organized camps in these areas were in
use this summer, operated on seasonal or inter—
mediate permits by 86 camping agencies. An even
larger number of groups are using these and other
facilities on short—term permits during the fall,
winter and spring. Camp grounds in national parks
were used during the summer of 1939 by 519
separate organized groups, comprising a total of
22,358 persons.

Further consolidation of federal park activities
under the National Park Service was effected by
President Roosevelt’s Executive Order of June
10, 1933, when a number of national monuments
administered by other departments were trans-
ferred to National Park Service jurisdiction.
These included national cemeteries and parks of
the War Department sitUated within the conti-
nental United States and national monuments ad-
ministered by the United States Forest Service.
Under the Historic Sites
Act of August 21, 1935, the
Service was given responsi-
bility for coordinating his-
toric conservation through-
out the country. This Act
declared as a national policy
the preservation of historic
American sites, buildings,
objects and antiquities of
national significance for the
benefit and inspiration of
the people, and empowered
the Secretary of the Inter—
ior, through the National
Park Service, to effectuate
this policy.

There are now 162 acres,
totaling approximately
21,550,780 acres, in the na-
tional park and monument

646 THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE

system, compared to 39 areas, totaling 6,346,392
acres, at the time the Service was organized in
1917. In carrying out its primary function of pro-
viding recreation, the National Park Service is
charged with responsibility for the conservation,
protection and administration of "the areas under
its care, in order that they may be available for
the use of the people now and in the future. This
involves protection of forests, water resources,
plant and animal life and geological features
against destruction or exploitation. It is also the
duty of the Service to see that the high standards
of selection originally laid down, and reflected in
the types of existing national park and monument
areas, are maintained with respect to new areas
added to the system. Use of the national park
system areas increased from an attendance of
487,368 in 1917 to 15,454,367 for the 1939 travel
year. These park visitors participated in such ac-
tivities as winter sports, camping, use of museums,
guided nature trips, hiking, lectures, photography,
painting and sketching, swimming, and (among
the most popular) attendance at Easter services.
It has been largely through its emergency ac-
tivities that the National Park Service has reached
its present position of leadership in the national
recreation movement. Growth of this movement
in the United States has been marked most sig-
nificantly by a broadening of concept, particularly
in the last ten years. Leaders in this movement
have 'come to realize that recreation involves much
more than the mere maintenance of a physical
plant. Moreover, they have recognized that the
individual efforts of local communities and states
cannot possibly achieve maximum results unless
related to the program for the nation as a whole.
These facts were brought home with particular
force when for the first time federal aid, made
available through emergency funds in 1933,
brought the central government and the states into
a working partnership for park and recreation de—
velopment. Because of its experience and the very
nature of its function, the National Park Service
was designated to give technical supervision to all
Civilian Conservation Corps and certain emer-
gency relief park projects, both on federal areas
and areas of the states, counties and municipali-
ties. So productive of good results was this ar-
rangement that Congress, in 1936, authorized the
Federal Government, through the National Park
Service, and the states to cooperate with one an-
other in planning for park, parkway and recrea-
tional area needs. Under this permanent legisla-

tion was launched the Park, Parkway and Recrea—
tional—Area Study, a cooperative venture with the
ultimate purpose of working out a complete pro—
gram for the recreational requirements of the
American people. Under this program, facilities
of the Federal Government, the states and their
civil divisions are being correlated to serve na—
tional, state and local needs.

Encouraged by the federal assistance given them
in their programs, the states have improved the
administration of their programs either by the
creation of new agencies or the expansion of ex-
isting ones, and have greatly increased their park
holdings. Prior to 1933 state park acreage totaled
965,057 acres. By June 30, 1939, the total was
approximately 1,918,863 acres, showing an in-
crease of some 953,806 acres, or practically 100

.per cent. Since 1933 there has been an increase

of about 581 park areas in 45 states, and these now
number some 1,400 areas.

By working in close cooperation with the states,
the National Park Service is rendering an impor;
tant service in an advisory capacity. The chief
service it renders is that of coordination to pro—
mote uniform standards in the selection, planning,
development and use of areas. This is accom-
plished by providing a central clearing house
through which the states may pool their findings
and ideas and receive the benefit of careful analy:
sis leading to sound recommendations.

Cooperation of the National Park Service witl'
state and local park administering agencies and in-
terested organizations has taken practical form i1
such activities as conducting institutes for th<
training of recreation leaders, particularly f0'
large natural areas. In order to improve thu,
quality of and extend the recreational services 0';
parks, a series of program demonstrations 01 
areas near centers of population has been carried
out in cooperation with state agencies. A munici.
pal park study was conducted in collaboratioi
with the National Recreation Association and
study of fees and charges was made with the cor-
currence of the American Institute of Park Ex:
cutives. In the Parks, Parkway and Recreational
Area Study, the Service is cooperating with fort;j
seven states, and thirty preliminary state repor I
have already been completed. Studies to assist t1
states in framing desirable park and recreatit
legislation are made by the Service, and the stat.i
are also helped by the systematic compiling all
analyzing of contributed state park records. l

The administrative organization of the Natior‘

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
     

U. 5. OFFICE OF EDUCATION 647

Park Service itself has grown from small begin-
nings to a nation-wide system for the handling of
a large and varied program. Originally a director,
assistant director, chief clerk, draftsman, and
messenger constituted the Washington office staff.
Gradually the force has been enlarged to include
technicians of various types both in Washington
and in the field. As various phases of the program
evolved, separate branches have been established
to take charge of such programs as research and
information, wildlife, plans and design, engineer-
ing, operations, legal matters, forestry, historic
conservation, land planning, and finally, recreation
and state cooperation. So widespread have the
activities of the Service become, particularly since
I cooperation with the states began under the CCC
: and emergency relief programs, that an adminis-
trative system of four regions has been established.
. Each region is in the charge of a regional director,
with offices situated in Richmond, Virginia;
Omaha, Nebraska; Santa Fe, New Mexico; and
San Francisco, California. The work of the Ser-
vice has been largely decentralized in these regions
for more efficient operation. There are now ap-
proximately 12,000 (not including CCC and re-

lief workers) persons employed by the National

art appreciation that we may more fully enjoy
the pleasures of line and color and composition;
we learn the mechanics of music and listen to
recorded or radioed compositions not to make
money but that our non-working hours may be
passed more pleasantly. The sciences are not
taught primarily for the purpose of training scien-
tists but for giving us that larger appreciation of
the phenomena of the world with which we are
in constant contact in our leisure time, and we get
from geography and from history not bread and
butter but food for our hours of recreation at
home or in travel. Physical activities of the school
playground and gymnasium are practiced largely
for present pleasure and also with a view to their
spontaneous use in after school play. Summer
camps furnish education in the open and chiefiy
they are a means or mode of supervised recreation,
physical and mental.

In all these phases of education, and others, the
Office of Education attempts to emphasize the in-
herent recreational values.

As we see it in the Office of Education, the
results of education are more and more for pur-
poses of living and not merely for making a living,
and so far as our limited personnel permits, we

1" Park Service, of whom 7,333, or considerably
p more than half, are in regular or civil service

appointment.

are promoting education along these lines.

’ -" Work Projects Administration
3 U. S. Office of Education By G. OTT ROMNEY

I Director, Recreat' n Se t'
' . Statement Authorized by lo c Ion

. By J. F. ROGERS, M. D.
I

E ARE NOT simply trying to be polite or con-
ventional when we say that this is an oppor—
tunity which we appreciate beyond words—the
opportunity to expose and explain to you, the
pioneers in the attack on the leisure time prob-
lem, the articulate representatives of the great
forces which are daring to try to make democracy
function by helping the citizenry regardless of
race, creed, color or age to live full, well-rounded,
gratifying lives, just what the Federal Govern-
ment is about in including in its comprehensive
employment program under the
Work Projects Administration
services in education and recre-
ation—and, indeed, all commu—
nity off-time interests.
Our chief difficulty has been
encountered in making the citi-

Consultant in Hygiene

' HE OFFICE OF EDUCATION is engaged in the
j nation-wide promotion of education in all its
p phases. Since education cannot be separated from
' recreation, in this sense the Ofiice of Education is
promoting recreation, though there is not at pres-
 ent anyone on the staff specifically designated as
j a recreation specialist.
j The close relation of education and recreation
is easily shown. We learn to
read and we study literature not

I merely to make a living but to

 

"As we see it in the Office of Edu-
cation, the results of education are
more and more for purposes of liv-
ing and not merely for making a
living. and so far as our limited
personnel permits, we are promot-
ing education along those lines."

be able to spend our leisure the
more happily and, we hope, pro-
fitably; we learn to draw and
paint, and we attend classes in

3
l

648 WORK PROJECTS ADMINISTRA TION

zens of this nation know our purposes, motives
and objectives. You who are gathered here are
our understanding friends. You realize that we
are offering a service in the attack on the leisure
time problem and you have helped immeasurably
in enabling this agency to function in dignified
fashion in lending its efforts toward providing
enrichment of the steadily increasing off time of
the citizens of this nation while concomitantly
aiding in putting other deserving citizens to work
in useful pursuits.

There is no presumption on the part of the
Federal Government that the provision of these
opportunities for the pleasant and profitable use of
leisure time which citizens
in a true democracy have a
right to expect, along with
freedom of speech and wor-
ship and the other guaran-
tees of the Bill of Rights,
rests as a responsibility on
the Federal Government.
Rather, we look on this
problem which seriously
confronts us as a whole,
united people—as a com-
munity—a local responsi-
bility in the same category
with schools, safety and
health.

It is simple 10gic, how-
ever, that, with hordes of
people qualified to render or
potentially capable of ren-
dering a great service in
aiding in a solution of the
leisure time problem needing employment, with
communities financially unprepared to utilize their
services and unaware of the dire necessity of such
service, the Federal Government should grasp this
opportunity to employ these people to render this
obviously needed service and to awaken the con-
sciousness of communities to a realization that
provision for the leisure time growth of the citi-
zens is a local obligation.

Almost forty thousand recreation leaders are
being employed in the WPA Recreation Program.
More than thirty thousand teachers are finding a
new opportunity to serve in the WPA Adult-Edu-
cation program. The skills and talents of these peo-
ple are being conserved and developed, their self-
respect is being salvaged, their usefulness invested
in a great service to all the people of'the nation.

 

G. OTT ROMNEY

And the objectives of the programs are being
achieved. Please understand that these programs
offer only a complementary and supplementary ser-
vice. VVherever a local system exists and desires
to extend its service to the whole public free of
charge, either to new groups or in new areas, ac-
tivities or directions, the WPA within its limits of
funds, personnel possibilities and policies, is pleased
to collaborate. In adult education it is obvious that
the tie-up with existing systems is general. In
recreation, which is in its infancy in making its
case as a community responsibility, it happens that
the W PA program in eighty-five per cent of its
cases is serving communities which have hitherto
made no provision for rec- .
reation service. Even in
these instances, some public,
tax-supported body sponsors
the service and a local lay
advisory council expresses ‘
the needs of the consumers
and points the direction of
the program.

It is heartening to dis—
cover that since WPA of-
fered a service in recreation.
four and a half years ago.
approximately 750 commu--
nities have assumed a legal
responsibility for recreation,
service to their people by
adopting proper ordinances,
establishing official boards '
and employing at least the
top supervisor. More thani
5,000 certified recreation.

workers have left WPA employment to assume 1

jobs in professional recreation or allied pursuits.
The number of teachers who have found employ- ‘
ment outside of W PA through their opportUnity»g
to serve in this great employment program is:-
conv1nc1ng. -_

With the U. S. Office of Education and the
National Education Association telling us that the;
nation could well use twice as many school teachvj
ers as are presently employed, and with you whc
know the recreation field so intimately advising
that we have not yet scratched the surface in ren
dering this essential aid in solving the leisure timt
problem, it is irrefutable that the discovery, train
ing and seasoning of recreation leaders and teach
ers resultant from the WPA program is provid
ing a great national asset. '

    
   

NATIONAL YOUTH ADMINISTRATION

The rendering of several million illiterates
literate by the education program would alone
justify that service even though it is but a small
segment of the total program and, in fact, prac-
tically a prerequisite course. And the rescuing
of millions of recreational illiterates, to borrow
a well-coined phrase from Dr. Harold Meyer of
the University of North Carolina, is a feat to
vindicate any program.

In this critical hour in our national existence
when democracy is menaced by a diametrically
opposed and conscienceless enemy, all of us con-
cerned with writing the insurance policy of the
morale of the citizenry become increasingly im—
portant people. It would be folly to try on this
occasion to tip-toe engagineg around the issue.
These are critical times. The VV PA community
and welfare services are taking strict inventory
to discover how they may aid in the national de-
fense program. And we are convinced that our
services must be strengthened for and extended
to the people behind the lines, the run-of—the-mill
citizenry, as well as to the armed forces. But,
obviously and acutely, the need for service at the
points of military and industrial defense concen-
tration cries out.

The \Vork Projects Administration, servant of
all the people regardless of age, race, creed or
economic status, is girding its loins to join all of
you, to collaborate with you, to serve side-by-side
with you to the fullest of
its ability in making democ-
racy function and in defend-
ing democracy against as-
sault from any direction.

You have made us con-
fident that we have a
highly worth-while service
to render to the people of
our country—a service which
is greatly needed.

In this vital work our ob-
jective is to conserve the
skills and utilize the ser-
vices of some of your fel-
low citizens by joining you
in the head-on attack on the
leisure-time problem which
we boldly categorize as
among the four or five

major concerns of this great
democracy.

 

. "5 .- a. A

“a

x__‘~n_
~.-

:- .o
«.3

. . a
." a.

AUBREY WILLIAMS

649

National Youth Administration

By AUBREY WILLIAMS

Administrator

PROVIDING AN OUTLET for the energies of young
people, especially those who in the past have
lacked opportunities for education, work experi-
ence and recreation, is an underlying objective of
the entire program of the National Youth Ad-
ministration. This basic objective is pursued
through the prosecution of two major phases of
the Youth Administration, the Student \Nork
Program and the Out-of-School Work Program.

More than 500,000 young people have, during
the past year, been enabled to continue their edu-
cation in schools, colleges and universities of the
nation through part-time jobs provided under the
Student Work Program. While the primary pur-
pose of this program is to enable youth to attend
educational institutions, the jobs themselves are
educationally valuable and socially useful. As far
as possible, the work is related to the academic or
vocational interest of the student, and thousands
receive practical work experience in the field in
which they later expect to earn a livelihood. Stu-
dent \Vork projects at educational institutions have
included construction of tennis courts, baseball
diamonds and playground equipment, as well as
supervised school and community play activities.

In the operation of its
projects for Out-of-School
youth, which employ 270,000,
the Youth Administration
has rendered three important
services in the fields of edu-
cation and recreation. First,
it has conducted commu-
nity-wide recreation pro-
grams; second, it has pro-
vided organized recreation
activities for youth employ-
ed on NYA Out-of-School
Work projects; and third,
it has constructed an exten-
sive variety of education-
recreation facilities for pub-
lic use.

The lives of children and
adults alike have been en-
riched through community
recreation programs oper-

650 NATIONAL YOUTH ADMINISTRATION

ated under the leadership
of NY A workers. As a re-
sult of this activity, includ-
ing supervised play, opera-
tion of nursery schools, in—
struction in arts and crafts,
as well as athletic contests,
manylocal communities have
established a permanent or-
ganization for long-term
recreation programs.

On NYA resident centers
and on a large number of
local projects for out-of-
school youth, well-rounded
recreation programs have
been organized with the re-
sult that many of the rural
youth employed on these
projects now are participat-
ing for their first time in
organized recreation.

Recreation facilities constructed by Youth Ad—
ministration workers during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1940, included 1,253 playgrounds and
athletic fields, 41 swimming pools, 7o wading
pools, 682 tennis courts, 139 basketball courts, 21
golf courses, 43 handball courts, 597 horseshoe
and quoit courts, 3,617 outdoor fireplaces and
council rings, 33o stadiums and bleachers, 209
community buildings. Repairs and improvements
were made‘on thousands of additional community
recreation facilities.

The Health Program of the NYA

One of the major contributions which the Na—
tional Youth Administration may make in the
present emergency is to promote the highest stand-
ards of health and physical fitness of persons em-
ployed under the NYA Out-of-School Work Pro-
gram through full utilization of available resources
of the National Youth Administration and the
local communities. Efforts toward accomplishing
this purpose are being directed along three
channels.

A. A physical appraisal, by means of a techni-
cally competent health examination, of every
youth assigned to the NYA Out-of-School
Work Program.

B. Correction of health defects through maxi-
mum utilization of community resources,
through the use of supplementary medical
and dental services provided where possible

 

JAMES J. McENTEE

Director. Civilian Conservation Corps

by the National Youth

Administration, and

through developing in

youth an interest in im-

proving their health by

their own personal efforts.
C. Improved technical ad-
vice and assistance with
respect to all NYA ef-
forts having a direct and
immediate bearing on the
health of youth workers,
such as, nutrition, sani-
tation, physical develop-
ment and recreation.

In developing this pro-
gram, the National Youth
Administration expects that
available health and recrea-
tion facilities, both public
and private, will be utilized
to the fullest possible extent.
Each state health program is under the direction
of a State Health Consultant, a physician, and a
State Health Supervisor, a non-medical person
with administrative experience in some field of
health. In several states recreation and physical
education supervisors are employed to organize
active sport and exercise programs for youth 011
resident center and local work projects. Recogni-

tion has been given to the importance of recrea- ~

tion and physical development activities in the
NYA health program.

Civilian Conservation Corps

By HENRY L. CARAVATI
Assistant Director

OR MORE THAN seven years—ever since the 

CCC was established in April 1933—'the Corps ‘
has been engaged in furthering the development,

of recreation areas in our states for the use, enjoy-

ment, and benefit of all our citizens. Civilian Con- '
servation Corps enrollees have developed for pub- -
lic use both new and existing recreation areas in ,

our national and state forests, and in national

parks and monuments, state, county and metro-

politan parks and recreation areas.

Through the work of the CCC boys, recreation
facilities have been provided for millions of peo-
ple. These facilities have assisted in improving

CIVILIAN CONSERVATION CORPS 651

and maintaining public health and morale as well
as providing recreation. Thousands of people in
need of outdoor recreation have been able to use
play areas which, were it not for the CCC, proba-
bly would never have been deve10ped, at least not
for many years.

The Corps has built roads, picnic grounds and
camp grounds, overnight cabins, horse and foot
trails and bridges, swimming, hiking and camping
facilities, safe water and sanitation systems, tele—
phone lines, parking areas, dams to impound water
for swimming and boating, and fences and guard
rails. Some camps have been assigned to restore
historic sites, such as Gettysburg battlefield and
colonial areas of Virginia.

Since the CCC began in 1933, 198 camps have
worked in 94 national park and monument areas,
and 697 camps in 881 state, county and metro-
politan areas. In supervising this CCC work, the
National Park Service has cooperated with 47
states, 35 counties, and 73 municipalities. There
is no doubt that the program has given great im-
petus to the state park movement throughout the
country, and that it has been largely responsible
for the increase in state park acreage by almost
one hundred per cent since 1933. Seven states——
Virginia, West Virginia, South Carolina, Missis-
sippi, New Mexico, Nevada and Montana—had
no state parks prior to 1933. They were en—
couraged to start on a state park program because
CCC assistance was available.

It' would be conservative to estimate that
100,000,000 persons visit the various public recre-
ation areas each year. The number of visitors is
increasing steadily as the areas are developed

through the CCC. Many areas report a one hun- .

dred per cent increase in the number of visitors
largely due to the considerable expansion of park
facilities carried out by the CCC. It aids in the

, admirable goal of adequate recreation facilities in

each state for all the people. It provides for the
protection and conservation of forest, water and
other important natural resources present in these
areas. It gives jobs to the CCC enrollees engaged
on these projects—jobs which materially help not
only these boys but their families, who receive
financial benefits from the allotments sent home
to them from the boys’ wages. These jobs are not
an end in themselves but a means to another end—
that goal of all CCC boys—a job when he leaves
the Corps. Through the work projects extensive

opportunities are furnished for training CCC men
not only in the habits of work and orderly living
but in basic skills in many different trades and
types of work.

Enrollee training is one of the primary objec—
tives of the Corps,whether the boy be engaged on
park conservation and recreation projects, refor-
estation, wildlife refuge development, range re—
habilitation, soil conservation or other projects.
The goal is to make each boy employable. This
means, in a large number of instances, starting
from the ground up, for about half of the boys
enrolled never had a steady job at regular wages
before entering the Corps.

The opportunities for training in the CCC are
extensive and varied, for the time is not limited to
a few hours a day as it is in a school or college. A
boy enrolls for six months, and during that time
he is under the supervision of the camp adminis-
trative or technical personnel. His entire camp
experience is educational. He receives training
while at work on the job and he has an oppor—
tunity for class room study in the evenings planned
to enlarge and supplement his training on the job.
Aside from this job and vocational training, there
is ample opportunity for academic education also.
We have taught some 85,000 illiterates to read and
write and many boys have received eighth grade
and high school diplomas while in camp because of
studies completed there.

Of inestimable importance to the boy are many
other things he learns in camp. He learns to
adapt himself to group life and live successfully
with others his own age; he is taught first aid,
safety and hygiene; he has the benefit of a good
camp library stocked with magazines and books
of history, reference, biography and fiction; he
has medical and dental care, good food, and the
leadership of men he can look up to and admire.
The boys’ own recreation is not neglected and
almost every camp has its baseball team, its box-
ing enthusiasts, football teams, and other forms
of sports.

We feel that when a boy leaves camp he is better
fitted to make his way in the world, has a keener
sense of his responsibilities, and that he is a better
citizen. We also feel that while in camp he has
made a distinct contribution to his country through
the work he has done in building up and safe-

guarding the nation’s natural resources of timber,
soil and water.

652 NATIONAL RESOURCES PLANNING BOARD

National Resources
Planning Board

By CHARLES W. ELIOT
Director

T HAS BEEN suggested that since the agency I am
I representing today is not an action agency, my
statement may appropriately be somewhat differ-
ent from those that you heard this morning. As
your chairman has ust said, I am the Director of
the National Resources Planning Board, which is
one of the five arms of the President’s executive
office under the reorganization plan which was ap-
proved a little over a year and a half ago. The
Board is composed of three members from widely
separated parts of the country. They meet about
every two or three weeks for two or three day

sessions.

The Board takes up problems which are referred
to it specifically by the President, or which are
mandated to it for consideration by an Act of
Congress passed during the Hoover Administra-
tion, called the Federal Employment Stabilization
Act.

The Board is organized with a director, three
assistant directors, and a number of special tech-
nical committees. We invented a new form of in-
terdepartmental committee some years ago and
have carried it on with slight variations for the
whole of the seven year period during which the
Board has been at work. Our committees cus-
tomarily include some technicians from each of
the federal agencies particularly concerned in any
one project, and some outside consultants or ex-

.The Board is a policy-making agency, a research
agency for the President and for the Congress.
Its job is not to do new research or analytical re-
search in the ordinary sense in which such words
are used in universities and in learned institutions
throughout the country, but a new kind of re-
search which for simplicity I call “synthetic re-
search.” It is putting together what is already
known as a basis of policy, in contrast to trying to
find out “more and more about less and less,” as
the old Ph.D. thesis was described. We do not
pretend to find out new things. We try to put to-
gether what is already known for the use of the
people, and the President and the Congress.

We have a mandate from Congress as to some i
of the fields in which this proceSs of making
policy, of putting together suggestions, is com-
pulsory. One of the things which the Congress
has asked us to do is to prepare and collect from
all federal agencies capital budgets or six year
programs of physical improvements. \Ve are hard I
at work in preparing that six year program of
public works in collaboration with the Bureau of
the Budget, which is one of the other five parts of
the President’s office.

A second major undertaking imposed on the
Board by law are studies of trends of business and
unemployment, and the forecasting of periods of i
unemployment, size of the unemployment prob-'
lem, and ways in which employment may be sta-
bilized. This is obviously an enormous task in I
which no one agency could possibly put together
all the material known or draw appropriate con-
clusions from all the material. It is, therefore,
necessary to split it up and to attack particular an-'- '
gles of the problem at different stages with what- '
ever funds and help the Board can secure. We have

made a number of studies along those lines, some '
of them perhaps you have seen. One of the more I
recent ones is the statement on “The Structure of ‘
American Economy” which Dr. Gardiner C.l'
Means and his staff prepared for us. Two others, 1
which Dr. Hildegard Kneeland prepared for the .;

l

perts from college, professional or other fields.
\Ve find that this outside leaven, or outside influ-
ence, is a very important factor in making these
committees function. We also find that it is very
important to have the men from the different
federal agencies not representatives of their agen-
cies but serving as individuals and free to take
positions as individuals.

Those committees, and the
consulting panel which we have
also developed, are responsible
in most cases for the prepara-
tion of the reports and docu-
ments which some of you prob-
ably have seen during the last
few years.

Board under the titles, “Consumer Incomes” and
“Consumer Expenditures,” are‘
revealing documents as to the.
nature of the problem without.
any attempt to draw conclusions
as to what should be done.

The other activities of the
Board are implied in the name,
Resources Planning Board. We:
have tried again to attack emerg-i

"If we are going to maintain our
morale; it we are going to have
something here worth detending.we
have got to solve this problem of
how to make our leisure time pro-
ductive. effective, constructive.
and not have it simply an invita-
tion to deteatism and the running
downhill of our moral machine."

THE EXTENSION SERVICE, U. 5. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 653

ing problems in some order of their importance.

The job of the Board is first, to try to foresee

which problems are likely to become critical with—

in, say, the next six months or a year, or which
already are in a critical state and on which action
.must be taken; and second, to get proper investiga—
.itions and studies going in those fields in time to be
Ifuseful at the critical stage.
' We have a number of reports in process now.
‘One of those is on the relief problem—“Long
' Range Work and Relief Policy,” and is under the
_, hand of Dr. William Haber and a committee of
i-which he is chairman, including Miss Katharine
’Lenroot and a number of other people both from
' ithe government and from outside the government.
! Another major study on which we are engaged
'lis one on the transportation facilities and rate
structure of the country. Still others are the six
ryear program which I just referred to, and further
studies on stabilization.

In the past we have concentrated on land, water,
energy, physical resources. “I e made one excur—
sion into the human resources field with the big
report on population changes which we feel is a
useful contribution, and apparently it has been so
regarded by a great many universities and col—
lleges who have put it in as textbook and research
.material in courses.

: \\-"e are now engaged in a new enterprise in the
.human resource field which I hope will be pro—
{ductive, and I think it is rather unusually interest-
Iing. It is called the “Roster of Scientific and
‘Scholarly Personnel.” It is being undertaken
under Dr. Leonard Carmichael, the President of
KTufts College with the collaboration of the Civil

 

 

\

Service Commission. It is an attempt to have in a
lsingle register or roster a record of the scientists
(and scholars of the country, for two purposes:
:first, so that they can be reached in their special-
‘ized fields for service in case they are needed for
defense; and second, to protect fundamental re-
:search and teaching and prevent undue interfer—
‘EIICC, or unnecessary calling of such people away
from their essential tasks. In other words, it is a
.record of our special skills in the scholarly and
scientific fields. Perhaps the same procedure, if
this works, can be extended to other fields.

This doesn’t have much to do with what you
{have under consideration today. The Board and
lthose working with the Board are very much
concerned with the problems before you. The
Board has not been able to make the contribution

git would like to make in this field of education and

 

recreation: Some day we hope we may have the
opportunity and the chance to help in pulling to—
gether the material for a major statement of policy
in the field of recreation. That time apparently
hasn’t arrived yet. Maybe it will come soon, may—
be sometime hence. I think it partly depends on
you. If such a statement is needed, I am sure the
Board will be responsive to requests for it, or for
statements as to the need for it.

For myself, I see in this problem which you
have before you a very real need for statements
of policy in a number of directions. I am con—
cerned on one side of the field with the lack of
definition as to what the problems and the area
which you are trying to cover. I didn’t hear much
of the discussion this morning, but from previous
acquaintance with many of you here, I know that
your definitions of recreation vary very much.
What do you mean by the terms active and pas—
sive recreation, use of leisure time, education?
Where one begins and another leaves off is cer—
tainly vague in my mind from discussion with

many of you. I think something needs to be done
in that field.

I feel that Mrs. Roosevelt’s comment this morn-
ing raises a similar question as to what is meant by
citizenship—what she meant by citizenship. I have
a very deep concern from traveling over the coun-
try this summer as to what the American people
mean by citizenship, what their understanding is
of what we are trying to defend. I think a lot
needs to be donethrough recreation and through
education and through some guidance in the use
of leisure time in making people find out what it
is they are defending and do some hard thinking
on the subject.

Those are just the “off—the—bat” comments frOm
hearing a little of the discussion this morning and
from a long and very keen interest in this problem
which I feel is one of the central problems in the
survival of democracy.

The Extension Service
U. S. Department of Agriculture

By CHARLES E. POTTER

Extension Service

NE OF THE OBJECTIVES of the cooperative ex-
tension work in the United States is to de-
velop wholesome recreation by assisting rural

654 THE EXTENSION SERVICE, U. 5. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

people in meeting their social, cultural and civic
problems. Extension Service programs are car-
ried on through the cooperation of .the United
States Department of Agriculture, the »various
state agricultural colleges, county appropriating
bodies and rural people. The 6,700 county exten—
sion agents located in practically all of the agri-
cultural counties of the United States have as
their clientele the people located on 6,816,000
farms. The type of extension program developed
in the rural communities depends upon the needs
and interests of the rural people.

In the Extension Service of the Department of
Agriculture there is one specialist in rural recrea-
tion. This specialist counsels
with the staffs of the Ex-
tension Service of the agri-
cultural colleges in the de-
velopment of recreation pro-
grams and assists in for-
warding such programs as
may be determined. Exten-
sion recreation specialists or
rural sociologists who de—
vote some of their time to
recreation are employed in
twenty—three states. In every
State Extension Service
there is someone on the
staff who is especially in-
terested in some phase of
recreation. Many of them
have full time responsibili—
ties in addition to their con—
tribution in the recreation
held. These people help the
county extension agents in
planning and carrying out various parts of the rec-
reation program. They also prepare circulars and
bulletins for use of volunteer leaders.

In one of the early announcements of this meet-
ing there was a statement that said: “Many —-—-be-
lieve that the ‘underlapping’ in recreation far ex-
ceeds any overlapping.” This is particularly true
in the rural field. Very little professional recrea-
tion leadership is available to rural groups. The
general report of the White House Conference
pointed out that children living in rural areas form
one of the “neglected groups” in recreation. This
report pointed out that while “the natural sur—
roundings of the countryside enrich the life of the
rural child,” yet guided recreation is seldom avail-
able to him. The rural church, once an important

 

M. L. WILSON

Director. Extension Service

l

social center, does not play as important a part- in
many rural communities as it formerly did be-l
cause of the ease with which rural people get to a
town church. Consolidated schools have many
advantages. However, consolidation presents some,
problems in recreation due to the fact that the:
children who live at a distance from school spend
the time riding on a bus that might otherwise be,
put on extracurricular interests. Their parents are,
in some cases deprived of the community facilities:-
which were frequently important in community;
recreation programs. The nearness of urban com:;
mercial amusements often raises a problem of stand{;
ards in rural areas. The Extension Service uses 
variety of approaches to rec-i.
reational interests through
the 4-H clubs, home demon:
stration clubs, community,
meetings, 4-H club and farrri
women’s camps and other.
special types of program,
Indigenous dances, sports
and festivals have been re;
vived in many places. A re-
vival of interest in native
handicrafts has been brought
about. Increased interest in,
a new type of rural literaf
ture has been stimulated.
Home and community play
centers have been estab-
lished. Community and
county-wide dramatic event;
have been sponsored
Nature study groups ant
conservation activitie:
among 4-H club members
have opened the eyes of many young people to
their natural surroundings. Neighborhood cele-_'
brations, choruses, orchestras and bands havflg
sprung up throughout the land. Rural art exhibit."
and hobby shows have uncovered real talent ant]
special interests. Trips and tours to see and do i.’
great variety of things appear in many recreai

-|

I

tional programs.

Money for recreation activities in many rura'
areas is limited. There is, therefore, a demand f0.
self-directed community-supported activities onc
their value has been demonstrated. The demanu
from rural people for help in getting recreatioi‘
prdgrams under way and for guidance in keepin,
them going has been greater than the ability 0
the Extension Service to meet them.

   
 

THE EXTENSION SERVICE, U. 5. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 655

The use of volunteer lead-
ers has solved this problem
to some extent. The train-
ing of these leaders has

I been a major part of the
 state recreation specialist
'1; plan. Recreation leaders
 have been produced from
rural young people as well
as the adults. The recrea-
l. tion field is often the one

"In many rural areas it is still necessary to
help men and women recognize their need
for recreation as a part of their way of liv-
ing. In some rural communities the people
are slow to accept as desirable the use of
their time in enjoyable. and what seems
to themI non-economic ways. The Exten-
sion Service starts its work in the local
community and urges the people living
there to determine their recreational prob-
lems. and assists them in working. out
ways of improving their opportunities
for satisfying uses of their leisure time."

Because of the limited
recreation staff, the Exten-
sion Service solicits and
welcomes the cooperation of
all agencies having contri-
butions adaptable to the
rural field. Invitations to
leader training institutes for
either paid or volunteer
workers and opportunities
to participate in demonstra-

.;, in which an older youth is
' introduced to the responsibilities and satisfaction
of directing a group. The success of a volunteer
leader depends largely on the inspiration and
u knowledge supplied at a training school. The Ex-
tension Service has devoted a great deal of thought
to the development of a technique that will pro-
” duce good results. Very satisfactory one to four
. day institutes or training schools in music, drama,
. social recreation and camping with effective fol-
ll low up plans have been worked out.
It is impossible for one recreation specialist in
' the Federal Extension Service to meet the de-
mands from all of the states. Consequently, the
services of other recreation agencies interested in
. the rural field have been sought. The National
I Recreation Association has been especially gener-
| ous in helping the Extension Service develop a
recreation program. Indeed, this agency has been
responsible for starting the recreation program in
Extension in many states. The WPA, NYA, and
other agencies have also cooperated locally.
l Training schools or institutes arranged for by

 

the Extension Service are seldom limited to ex-
tension personnel. Church, school, clubs, civic or-
ganizations and farm groups have sent leaders for

a training. Often, in return, leaders developed by
the Extension Service have been invited to attend
recreation courses offered by other organizations.

" The exchange of experience, material and methods
has increased the value and interest.

Besides opportunities for training, the Exten-
‘sion Service has found that frequent demand for
the use of his skill serves to keep a volunteer
leader interested. Some of the county extension
agents have organized “flying squadrons” of older
boys and girls or adults who are ready, often on
short notice, to lead games or songs at a commu-
lnity meeting, manage the sports program at a
farmers’ picnic or help a group prepare for a play.
The Extension Service aims to make use of the
Ivolunteer leaders once they have been trained.

l
I

tions of method in music,
drama, choral speaking, camping, handicraft and
other recreation activities will be appreciated. The
Extension Service hopes that it may have oppor-
tunity to share its experiences with others in the
recreation held.

The Extension Service has, as already indicated,
received much cooperation from many groups in
forwarding the recreation program in rural areas.
Leaders of recreation activities in many of the
towns have been helpful. For example, a former
music teacher comes from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to
work each week with a 4-H club girls’ chorus. A
town Little Theater Group has volunteered its
service to a home demonstration club, and the
two groups exchange plays. Scout executives
have made great contributions to many 4-H club
camps. The facilities of such organizations as
Y.M.C.A., Y.VV.C.A., Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts,
Camp Fire Girls and others have shared with the
Extension Service their dormitories, conference
rooms and camp and picnic areas. The excellent
materials on recreation that have been prepared by
WPA, NYA, Girl Scouts, Y.VV.C.A. and other
agencies have been helpful to the Extension Ser-
vice. More of this type of material is needed.

Such activities as we have briefly indicated “have
reached significant proportions.” This development
of rural cultural arts gives us “faith in the creative
and vigorous possibilities of democracy.”

U. 5. Housing Authority

By NATHAN STRAUS
Administrator

UBLIC HOUSING has come far in a few years.
P In 1938 hopes were translated into blueprints;
in 1939 blueprints were translated into buildings
of wood, brick, stone and mortar. In 1940 build-
ings are being translated into homes. That is the

656 U. 5. HOUSING AUTHORITY

story, in a nutshell, of the
United States Housing Au-
thority program—a story of
the progress of public hous-
ing and slum clearance from
a dream to a great national
achievement.

The aid, assistance and
guidance of agencies of all
kinds working in the field
of education and of recrea-
tion are needed to hasten
the transformation of groups
of buildings into communi-
ties of citizens.

But don’t expect too much
from housing. Our job, ac—
cording to law, is to provide
shelter. We know that to do
this job we must take into
consideration other human
needs—"especially recreation and education. But
we cannot pay for much more than shelter. The
provision of social facilities and social services
must be primarily your responsibility.

A new housing project provides the oppor-
tunity for better planning, better design, for re-
building a neighborhood. You can use the proj-
ect as a stimulus and focus for accomplishing
things you have long wished for. But you recrea-
tion and education people, through your national
agencies and local affiliates, must provide the ser-
vices and facilities for housing projects as you
have always done for other sections of the com-
munity and of the city.

Local housing authorities cannot undertake the
primary provision of recreation and education
facilities for the tenants. To do so would raise
the rent and defeat the purpose of having rents
low enough to meet the needs of families from
the slums. Moreover, local housing authorities
are not equipped technically nor empowered
legally to assume these responsibilities.

Public housing can provide a setting for im-
provement of recreation and health standards.
But it should not attempt to duplicate functions
which are properly those of the Board of Edu-
cation and the local recreation agencies.

We attempt in all housing projects to provide
small outdoor play areas with wading or spray
pools for children of preschool age. There is
also, wherever possible, recreation room or space
for a library or a minimum of indoor space for

 

meetings. Frequently there I
is a small kitchen. But that
is about all. Responsible
local agencies must provide
parks, playgrounds, com-
munity centers, schools,
health clinics, libraries—as
they always have done.

Housing is anxious to
cooperate actively with edu-
cational and recreational
agencies. In the last few
years we have accomplished
much together. This meet-
ing should stimulate further
cooperative planning. Our
goal, and your goal, is ex-
panding social services to
meet the needs of all citi-
zens. Let us work together
to achieve it.

NATHAN STRAUS

Farm Security Administration

Resettlement Division

By MOLLY FLYNN
Education Unit

THE FARM SECURITY ADMINISTRATION is a part
of the Department of Agriculture, and what
has been said about the Extension Service and its'
activities applies to much of the Farm Security
work. This is particularly true in regard to our
rehabilitation families and our tenant purchase
families. In Farm Security last year the program
touched 589,000 rural families, many of those in I
the rural rehabilitation and tenant purchase
division. ‘

In addition to the staff mentioned in Extension i!
Service, there are in the counties in which Farmf
Secudty has a rehabilitation program at least two
people, a farm supervisor and a home supervisor,"
who work closely with the Extension Service and
the other agencies in the county to see that recre-'
ation programs are available to the families. In ,'
addition to these in the Farm Security Adminis-l
tration the Resettlement Division administers the.
resettlement community projects, the Greenbelt
towns, and the camps for migratory agricultural
workers. Everyone here recognizes the i1np0r-.
tance of social activities and recreation in any
program that concerns rural families, especially

   
 
 
   

‘O..‘
. :

FARM SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, RESETTLEMENT DIVISION 657

families of low income situated in areas where As to their use, there is no question. Those of

4

facilities and resources are almost non-existent.
In the rural rehabilitation and tenant purchase

programs, Farm Security personnel have worked

closely with these agencies and with the Office of
Education to include those families in all the
planning and activities that have been provided—
the Home Demonstration Clubs, the 4-H Clubs,
the Future Farmers of America, the leadership
institutes and the training conferences that are
held, and Farm Security personnel have con—
sistently participated in the advancement of rural
social planning on a county basis.

In other phases of the program one needs only
to look at the plan of our Greenbelt towns and
rural resettlement communities, that is the town—
site plan, to realize that Farm Security has made
a real contribution to the whole field of recreation
in that every one of these communities in the
original layout reserved adequate park and play-
ground space and provided community facilities
for adult and child groups. The town plans of the
Greenbelt communities, with school—community
centers, have attracted nation-wide attention.
What is perhaps not so well known is that in our
rural resettlement communities, of which there
are about 161 in the country, Farm Security has
built sixty-eight school-community buildings that
are outstanding in rural social planning. This is
exclusive of the buildings that are in the migra-
tory camps throughout Arizona, Idaho, California,
Texas, Florida, Oregon and
Washington. These school-
community buildings are
designed to meet everyday
needs and provide a place
for business, social, educa—
tion and recreation activity.

Because our money was
limited, these buildings had
to be planned and con-
structed at a minimum cost,
and sometimes I think it
was a good thing we had
less money because the
Farm Security planners
really had to put their minds
on constructing buildings
for multiple use that did
not cost as much as they
might have cost if we had
limitless money to spend.

 

C. B. BALDWIN

Administrator. Farm Security Administration

you who have visited any of our communities
know how much the school-community buildings
are used. In those cases where there are school
facilities, the buildings have been leased or deeded
to the local school officials with a clause in the
lease or deed that the buildings are to be available
for recreation purposes, for adult activities. Thus
it is assured that the buildings will still be avail-
able for recreation and for community uses in the
event of any reactionary group a few years
from now.

Since the personnel in our counties on com—
munity projects is very limited, the Farm Security
has in all phases of the program placed emphasis
on the development of local leadership and the
use of existing agencies. In the migratory labor
camps the use of existing agencies is very well
demonstrated. We could not possibly have put on
a recreation program such as is vitally necessary
in the camps without the WPA personnel and
NYA assistance, because Farm Security has not
and cannot provide that kind of personnel. In the
community projects, since the development of local
leadership is so very necessary, it is one thing to
have facilities, it is another thing to use them.
We have, through all our community projects,
urged and developed and guided and struggled to
have the community group do its own planning,
plan and manage its own activities. You must
realize in thinking of this that many of our
families have never before
participated in any commu—
nity activity whatsoever, and
to see in some of our Negro
projects in the Far South
the group that calls itself a
Community Council, or a
Homesteaders Association,
struggling with the prob—
lems of the community and
really taking a part in them
is something that is a real
contribution to rural plan-
ning.

Yesterday I was in one of
our southern projects where
a group of five young peo-
ple were leaving late yester-
day afternoon to go to an-
other rural area to conduct
the games and dances at a
church meeting. They were

658 FUTURE FARMERS OF AMERICA

the recreation committee for that community.
Four years ago, in that community, one of our
personnel started a baseball team and the; boys
were read out of church because they were play—
ing baseball. Now they are going to church gath—

erings to teach games and dances.

Much that we have accomplished in recreation
would not have been possible without the services
of all these agencies represented here and the ser—
vices of WPA and NYA personnel. The prob-
lem is how to get to personnel and families in rural
areas a knowledge of what services and materials
are available and how the programs of private
agencies may be adapted to fit the particular sit-
uation in a resettlement community or a rural re-
habilitation county. It- is our desire to be familiar
with your programs and know how they may be
made available to individual workers in a far—
isolated community or in a rural county.

Future Farmers of America
By W. A. Ross

National Executive Secretary

IFE FOR MOST OF US is a combination of work
L and recreation. This is true in times of stress
as well as in normal times. The. proportion de-
pends upon the individual and circumstances. Ef-
ficient people are able to plan their work so that
they have educational, recreational, and leisure
time and can use that time wisely. The increased
tempo and strain of present—day living makes a
certain amount of wholesome diversion an abso—
lute necessity to the health and Well-being of both
young and old. To get the most out of life, spare
time, leisure time, or educational-recreational
time, requires planning just as much as does work
time.

If we are alert, thinking people, we find a great
variety of diversion along the highway of life we
all travel. Some of it is inviting; some valuable;
some of it is a waste of time; and some of it
definitely detrimental. The careless, unthinking
person blunders along in his recreational life with-
out plan or purpose. The longer we travel the
better we should be able to discriminate, if experi-
ence counts for anything. Mature people, there-
fore, representing such organizations as are here
today, have much to offer in helping youth, espe-
cially farm youth interested in making the most
of their recreational opportunities.

As a rule, people want to be up and doing. It
is only natural to seek diversion and amusement—
to seek a change when work permits us to do so. '
But what a difference there is in how folks go '
about it to have a good time! Some really know
how but many have never learned the secret. Some
start out and hunt for their diversion. Thousands
accept what may be at hand. Still others provide
much of their own entertainment and amusement,
and for the most part these people are the happi-
est. They also contribute the most to the com-
munities in which they live.

It is unnecessary for me to call attention to the
need for assistance along recreational lines in agri-
cultural areas. The problem is an old one, but
with the more recent changes in economic and
social conditions, changes in the American way of
life, and the changes in farm customs as well as
practice, many new recreation problems confront
us in the rural areas.

As most of you already know, the Future Farm—
ers of America organization is the national or-
ganization of boys studying vocational agriculture
in public secondary schools. It heads up in the
Agricultural Education Service of the U. S. Office
of Education. Launched in 1928, it now has a
membership of approximately 232,000 in 7,000
local chapters. These chapters are in high school
departments of vocational agriculture in forty-
seven states, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. The mem- ‘
bership is voluntary and the boys who belong are
from fourteen to about twenty-one years of age.
This organization is a part of the great public
school system of America, and as an intra—cur- .
ricular activity it has its root in vocational agrie
culture, a course in the high school. It constitutes
a teaching device that motivates and vitalizes the
systematic instruction offered. ,

The boys operate their organization under the
guidance of the teachers of vocational agriculture .‘
who serve as advisers. They have their own of— .-
ficers, they meet at specified times and they lay .
out annually a program of work to follow which 
is “geared” into the needs of both individual mem- ,
bers and the community of which they are a part. 1

Perhaps no national student organization en-
joys greater freedom of self-government under
adult counsel and guidance than the F.F.A., as it
is commonly known. It is non-profit, has no out
side afhliations, and is designed to take its place
along with other agencies striving for the develop-
ment of a more permanent agriculture and the
enriching of country life.

 

- -.‘

" FUTURE FARMERS OF AMERICA 659

The primary aim of the
' F.F.A. is the development,
through actual experience
on a youth level, of agricul-
tural leadership, coopera-
tion, and citizenship. Under
this aim are listed twelve
specific educational pur—
poses. Purpose number
twelve reads as follows:

“To provide and encourage
the development of organized
rural recreational activities.”

The items in the pro-
grams of work set up by the
various local chapters of this
organization usually classify
under such headings as the
following :Productive Farm—
ing, Cooperation, Commu-
nity Service, Leadership,
Earnings and Savings, Conduct of Meetings,

i Scholarship, Recreation and General Activities.

' Committees of the youthful membership are desig-
nated to see that the activities are completed and
definite goals reached.

While the recreation activities are varied, it is

n encouraging to note that they do not all provide
merely a good time for the members themselves;
nor is it loose and haphazard play. Many of the
recreational items in F.F.A. programs of work
are designed to provide enjoyment for others in
the community in an organized way. It is thus
that a double objective can be accomplished.

Of course there are sports and athletic compe-
tition of all kinds—basketball, baseball, and field
days which include clean competition between
members, chapters, and districts. There are parties,
dances, socials, and barbecues for both the mem—
bers and their friends. Chapters stage rural plays
and entertainments of various kinds, and their
orchestras and string bands provide music for
numerous community affairs. Farmers’ picnics,
corn husking contests, clean-up days, agricultural
fairs, horse shows, checker and horseshoe tourna-
ments are also sponsored. The boys go on camp-
ing trips, organize rifle teams, bugle corps, maga-
zine clubs, and museums. They protect wild life
and game. Each member is encouraged to have a
hobby.

' Nearly every chapter has its own library, and
the members are encouraged to read the good
books available. The F.F.A. chapter cooperates

 

W. A. ROSS

with other departments of
the school, community clubs,
and other farm organiza-
tions on many recreational
and service activities. Thou-
sands of miles are traveled
by F.F.A. chapter groups
each year taking educational
tours and trips to all parts
of the United States; they
go even into Canada and
Old Mexico, and they fi-
nance their own way. The
annual Parent and Son ban—
quet in each chapter has be-
come an F.F.A. institution.

About twenty state asso-
ciations now have perma—
nent state camps of their
own at the present time. In
most cases the land is owned

by the association. Splendid buildings and facili-
ties are provided. Organized training for leader-
ship is a part of each summer camp program.
Instruction is given in such phases as public speak-
ing, parliamentary procedure, how to conduct and
take part in a community meeting, health protec-
tion, nature study, craftsmanship, directing recre—
ation activities, and how to develop individual
talent and leadership ability.

A good many state associations of F.F.A. hold
annual leadership schools and conferences, rang-
ing from a day to a week in length, for repre—
sentatives sent by local chapters to central points.
In September, for example, at Springfield, Illinois,
600 F.F.A. members participated in such a confer-
ence on the State Fair grounds. We need and ap-
preciate the assistance of all agencies in a position
to assist with such training programs.

Recently, the national organization of Future
Farmers of America purchased a thirty acre tract
of land in near-by Virginia, which is to be de—
veloped, over a period of years, as a permanent
National Leadership Training Camp and which
will accommodate the members who make educa-
tional trips to the Nation’s Capital. The activities
of this camp are to be c00rdinated with efforts of
state associations and local chapters. Leadership
training with us is a continuous process. As boys
pass out of the organization to take their places in
the community as young men and adults, new
members who need similar training and experience
are constantly coming into the F.F.A. organization.

660 FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE

Some of the objectives of the Future Farmers
of America with regard to educational-recreational
activities can be summed up as follows:

I. To assist members in selecting the right type
of recreational activities.

2. To help to establish standards in the minds of
members with reference to recreation, diversion
and the wise use of leisure time-—to judge with
a critical eye.

. To help members find leisure-time interests.

0.)

4. To help members plan their educational-rec-
reational time.

5. To help members plan programs of self-im-
provement.

6. To provide and help to provide recreation ac-
tivities for others in the community, as well as
for the members, and to better recreational
conditions about them.

7. To supply trained recreation leaders for local
communities.

We feel that one of the greatest services that is
being rendered by local chapters of the Future
Farmers of America in their own farm com-
munities is that of accepting responsibility for
providing certain organized, stimulating, enjoy-
able recreation on a community-wide basis. Such
activities are designed for all groups and ages.
Improving and enriching
the educational—recreational
life in farming areas calls
for intelligent whole-hearted
cooperation and it needs the
facilities and talent of every
agency able to make a con-
tribution. It is our sincere
hope that with your help
the Future Farmers of
America organization will
become increasingly efhci-
ent in providing such ser-
vice wherever it operates
and that a continuous sup-
ply of trained recreation
leaders for communities will
result. We appreciate what
every agency here has done
for us and the opportunity
of participating in this
program.

 

IRA N. GABRIELSON
Director, Fish and Wildlife Service

Fish and Wildlife Service

By W. B. BELL
Chief, Division of Wildlife Research

HE FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE is made up
Tof two organizations that were and are well
known. Some of you know that the Bureau of
Biological Survey functioned under the Depart-
ment of Agriculture for more than hfty years and
then was transferred to the Department of In-
terior something over a year ago under—executive
order. The Bureau of Fisheries was an even older
group, having been organized originally as a Fish
Commission and later made apart of the Depart—
ment of Commerce. About the same time that we
were transferred to the Interior Department, they
also went over to the Department. So I ask you
to keep in mind the reputation those two organi—
zations have made during the more than fifty years
of their history—-——the United States Biological
Survey and the United States Bureau of Fisher-
ies—and realize that they are now one organiza—
tion under the new name, the Fish and Wildlife
Service. a program that was put into effect the hrst
of July this year, again under executive order.

Neither of these organizations was designed
originally as recreational services, but each has -
contributed very largely to the recreational oppor-
tunities and facilities of this country. \V e have to
do with the whole gamut of animal and plant life,
ranging from the protozoa
to the anthropoids in the
animal held, and with all
the flowers, the forests, the
grasses and other useful
wildlife food and cover
plants that occur particu-
larly on the American con— I
tinents. ,1

We work with' all federal "
agencies that have been rep— f
resented here this morning. 
We also work closely with
state agencies, including the
educationists and the State
Conservation Commissions,
and other agencies that
touch both the farm and the
urban life. Our work in
dealing with the wildlife of .
the country, and with the
plants, I think you will

FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION 661

realize if you stop to think a moment, touches the
life, or may touch and contribute to the life of all
of our I 30,000,000 and more people. It contributes
to their physical, mental, moral, spiritual and rec-
reational well-being, and to those things that go to

make human life worth while.
Our major work is in the interests of wildlife.

That is the line to which we devote our study and
our operative work, yet as we have looked at
these things, we have been interested also in
‘ human welfare, and the more we think about it,
l the more it is apparent that those things that con-
, tribute to the well-being of wildlife also contribute
l

l

to human welfare. The fundamentals are the
same in both fields.
I have always been interested to see how uni-
! j versal in people is the interest in the wild creatures
and the plants. The banker, the baker, the candle-
stick-maker, people in all sorts of trades, and boys
' and girls and men and women who are our neigh-
' bors and friends, have a surprising amount of
' interest in the wild creatures and find delight and
helpfulness in playing with them.
i I have thought a good many times that possibly
' some of us who were professionally engaged in
wildlife research work were a bit queer, so I have
' taken pains to notice the extent to which people
. generally get added enjoyment out of life through
seeing the squirrels in trees, the birds that are
about them, getting acquainted with the flowers,
and all sorts of things of that kind. I feel that our
work, while it was designed primarily from an—
,other viewpoint, does contribute very largely to
the recreation field, and in connection with our
work we have, as I indicated, worked very closely
\with educational agencies in helping them develop
‘ programs to introduce the biological features into
courses of study. We have worked with state edu-
cational departments and all down along the line
,with the schools. We have worked with the writers
hof textbooks and our own publications have af-
Iforded the basis for much that is best in the fun-
}damental information that goes into textbook
material'and into the literature that appears in our
.magazines and other publica-
tions that are designed to
further interest in the wild
creatures and to get people to
know them better, to enjoy
a and appreciate them more.
I think it is apparent that
the wild creatures, including
the plants and animals, the

 
  
   
  
   
 
 
  

I"'The Federal Housing Administration
fully realizes that to secure contented
and satisfied home owners it is neces-
sary to give them much more than a
house and a small piece of land, and
every effort is made to create the type
of environment that is necessary for a
proper standard of living. and also one
that provides outlets for leisure time."

birds, beasts, flowers, and all sorts of living things

are some of the important lures t0 the out of
doors, so those who have this morning stressed
the importance of outdoor life have already con-
tributed something to what I want to bring
before you.

Our national refuge program, which has been
designed to further the welfare of wild creatures,
covers something more than 13,000,000 acres.
They are areas".0n which practically no killing of
wildlife is permitted. On the other hand, we work
closely, both in an advisory and research capacity,
with the Forest Service, the National Park Ser-
vice, the Soil Conservation Service, the Extension
Service and practically all of the other agencies
whose representatives have spoken here this mom-
ing, giving them such help as we can through fur-
nishing information or guidance or suggestions as
to things that will contribute most to an under-
standing, an appreciation, and an enjoyment of
wildlife.

The Fish and Wildlife Service stands ready and
anxious to be of service to this group in any way

that we can by furnishing information or inspira—
tional material, and I hope you will feel entirely
free to keep in touch with us, or to get in touch
with us if you have not done so before. Let us
know what your needs are and we shall be glad
indeed to help. We have worked with many of the
states and private agencies, the Boy Scouts and
Girl Scouts, and other such agencies that are not
hooked up directly with the federal agencies, such
as the 4-H clubs and the Future Farmers of
America. Let us know what we can do to help you
out and we shall be very glad indeed to be of service.

Federal Housing Administration

By SEWARD H. MOTT

DirectorI Land Planning Division

NLIKE THE RENTAL projects sponsored by the

United States Housing Authority, which are
largely subsidized by government funds, the Fed-
eral Housing Administration’s
rental projects are privately
financed and privately man-
aged. However, certain mini-
mum standards must be met
before we will insure the loans
on these projects. These cover
such matters as cost per room,
percentage of land coverage,

662 FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION

room size, construction, evi—
dence of need for project
and financial responsibility
of the sponsors. The type
of apartment which we will
approve varies greatly in
various areas and in accord-
ance with land value and
local needs and habits. In
the vicinity of New York
City, where land values are
very high, six story eleva-
tor apartments with high
ground coverage have been
approved. This type of
apartment, however, is un—
USUal and a very large per-
centage of our rental hous—
ing projects are of two to
three stories in height with
a land coverage of less than
twenty per cent and with the greatest care taken
to assure maximum light and air and open space.

It is our standard practice to require one play
area for preschool children for every one hundred
families. This play yard must have a minimum
area of 1,200 feet and be properly surfaced and
equipped with play apparatus and sand boxes as
well as benches for adults, a low water fountain
and suitable enclosure. In many projects the man—
agement furnishes a play yard attendant.

Where the type of project and land values per-
mit, a very large percentage of our projects pro—
vide facilities for adult recreation such as tennis
and badminton courts, softball courts, swimming
pools, and similar facilities. The extent of outdoor
recreation facilities depends to a great degree on
the availability of public recreation areas.

Due to high land costs in many of our projects,
it would be impossible for us to make a hard and
fast rule that facilities for outdoor recreation for
adults must be provided in every case, but this
Administration is fully conscious of the growing
need of such facilities and the increased appeal
which is secured when such facilities are available
to rental tenants. We are therefore, very glad to
include the cost of such improvements in the loans
which we insure, and in many cases, particularly
in the west and south, we insist that they be
included.

We have no regulations requiring that a com-
munity hall or indoor recreation facilities be pro—
vided. We find that in many cases the managers

 

SEWARD H. MOTT

of these rental projects are
very averse to accepting re-
sponsibility for organizing
community activities," as they
feel that the results achieved

in creating good will on the
part of the tenants do not

and effort involved.

As I have indicated, the
decision as to whether fa—
cilities will be provided in-
side the buildings for rec—
reation is largely left to the
sponsor of the project. We
also wish to make clear that
our rental housing projects
are not for slum clearance
but are largely occupied by
White collar workers who
are able to pay rents of from
twelve to eighteen dollars per month, per room.
Practically all these tenants have automobiles and
are able to a very considerable extent to find their
own recreation outlets.

When a builder desires to develop a large group
of homes for single family occupancy, a most
careful study is made by the technicians of the
Land Planning Division of this Administration to
see that the area is so planned and protected as to
secure an attractive stable neighborhood with all
necessary utilities and the maximum amenities.
Not only is the construction and planning of the
homes and lot sizes carefully regulated, but the
adequacy of social, recreation and educational fa—
cilities is given most careful consideration. Where
public park or recreation facilities are not readily
available, and where the size and topography of
the tract permit, parks and playfields are very

frequently required and areas are set aside as 3

future sites for schools, churches and community

buildings. Where projects are developed along .

'1
3l

lakes is not permitted but generous areas are set '

lakes, streams or public parks, private ownership
of the entire frontage facing on such streams and

aside for public use. In a great many develop-

ments interior block parks are planned which may ,

be used for recreational purposes or for commu-
nity gardens.

Our experience in regard to the use of interior
parks is that in the large percentage of cases home
owners would much rather have a large lot rather
than share in ownership of a community park or

always justify the expense'

l RECREATION FOR THE NAVY 663

playground and pay their necessary share of main-
taining and policing such areas. When offered a
I choice, the buyers have almost without exception
' chosen the large lot rather than the community
’ park. This statement does not, of course, apply
to recreation and park areas which are dedicated
to and maintained by the local municipality. The
minimum lot size, which we have made a standard
for even the smallest detached single family home,
. is 50’x100’, and this provides area enough for the
owner to have gardens and occupation for con-
siderable part of his leisure time.

" Recreation for the Navy
By Commander J. L. REYNOLDS

IGH MORALE of the officers and men of the
H naval service is always a matter of primary
concern to both Congress and the Navy Depart-
ment. Funds appropriated by Congress under
Welfare and Recreation are expended for ath-
letic equipment, for library books and for sound
motion pictures. The allocation of funds by the
Navy Department to ships and stations enables
those individual activities to provide directly for
the recreation of personnel. All vessels of suffi-
cient size to provide the necessary space for pro-
jection are equipped to show sound motion pic-
tures, as are all naval stations and Marine Bar-
racks. Through the Navy Motion Picture Ex—
change and sub—exchanges, programs of sound
motion pictures also made available by the
Navy to the vessels of the U. S. Coast Guard and
of the U. S. Army Transport Service. Ships and
,stations exhibiting motion pictures provided by
i ’the Navy Motion Picture Service make no admis-
g sion charge, although the contracts under which
i the motion picture films are leased limit the audi-
ence to naval personnel and casual guests.

Allocation of funds to an individual activity is
determined by the number of officers and men
attached, its relative remoteness from the regular
, recreation facilities, and the availability of funds

from other sources which might be used for simi-
lar purposes. The funds appropriated by Con-
gress are annually augmented by profits from
' Ships’ Stores, Ships’ Service

Stores and Marine Corps Post
' Exchanges.

The recreation activities of
I the navy are decentralized.
' There is in the Navy Depart-

  

United States

Commander Reynolds is in charge of
the Morale and Recreation Section
of the Bureau of NavigationI which
is the Personnel Division of the

Navy Department.

ment one office, the primary duties of which are
the administration of such matters as must be
decided by the Navy Department. Otherwise each
station and each vessel has its own welfare and
recreation organization under the respective com-
manding officer. In this manner each unit is al-
lowed to develop its own recreation program
which will best meet the needs of that particular
unit. In most cases these activities include all
athletic facilities and contests, dramatic or other
histrionic talent projects, the administration of the
library facilities, and any activities in connection
with the recreation of the officers and men. In
every case most of the attention given to these
matters is devoted to the recreation of enlisted
men.

The personnel administering these activities are
officers and men of the Navy. Mobilization is so
much in the minds of the people of this country
today that it is proper to note here that plans for
expansion of recreation facilities in the Navy on
“M” day have not been overlooked. Plans have
already been made to extend existing facilities and
activities, but in all cases these are to continue
under the administration of officers and men of
the Navy. Each unit is empowered to expand its
own facilities to meet its own particular require—
ments. This will in general be accomplished by
the utilization of the services of Reserve officers
and enlisted men who are particularly qualified for
these particular lines and who have been more or
less directly engaged in such work during peace
time.

Should mobilization come, it is realized that,
just as in the World War, the many agencies con-
cerned with recreation and welfare will wish to do
their part in providing for the morale and for the
recreation of the enlarged Army and Navy. Ac-
cordingly, the Navy plans have included the mat-
ter of cooperation with agencies such as the
Y.M.C.A., the Y.W.C.A., the Knights of Colum-
bus, the Jewish Welfare Board and, of course, the
National Education-Recreation Council and with
any other similar agencies who are sufficiently in-
terested to undertake this work. Here again, how—
ever, decentralization appears in as much as the
Navy’s plans provide for the cooperation with
these agencies locally and not
through the Navy Department,
as such, for the entire naval
service. It is expected that this
will be accomplished by the
commanding ofiicer (if a given

664 RECREATION FOR THE ARMY

ship or station dealing directly with these agencies
through such local unified welfare council as there
may be, or in the absence of such a council, then
directly with the agency concerned. ,

From this brief outline of the plans which the
Navy has for expansion of recreation activities in
case of mobilization, it is evident that there will
be no necessity for the activities of welfare agen-
cies within naval reservations as was the case in
1917 and 1918. For obvious reasons of security
and control, the Navy is attempting to profit by
the lessons from the last war and to confine the
activities within any naval reservation to the mili-
tary command of the local commanding ocher.
As a matter of fact, the appearance of the ex-
panded activities within the naval station will be
the same as those during the last war. The only
difference will be that those administering the
details of these activities will now be members of
the naval service rather than being primarily
identified with any particular. welfare agency,
however much a part of such welfare agency they
may have been before mobilization.

We cannot, and do not, expect to carry the in-
creasing load without the assistance of the recog-
nized welfare agencies. And the policy of the
Navy Department as explained above is not a
restriction against such activities, but instead in-
creases the potential usefulness in that they will be
allowed, by conducting their activities outside
naval reservations, more freedom than they could
enjoy on naval reservations.

On behalf of the Chief of the Bureau of Navi-
gation I wish to take this opportunity to express
to the representatives of the agencies here assem-
bled our sincere appreciation for the undying and
always helpful spirit which you have always ex—
hibited towards our personnel in the Navy, and
to assure you that you have made us feel your
readiness to help us with our problems in the
welfare and recreation field.

Recreation for the Army

By Colonel H. H. PFEIL
Adjutant General's Office

ROVISIONS FOR RECREATION and entertainment
P of the soldier during his leisure hours move
hand in hand with the training program for the
nation’s rapidly expanding defense forces today,
because Army leaders are aware that it takes more

than just men and guns to produce a victorious
military unit.

Not only must an army be well equipped, well
armed, and thoroughly trained in the technical
aspects of warfare, but it also must be bound to-
gether by the cohesive forces of morale and dis—
cipline. Modern warfare places a terrific strain
on the moral stamina and physical endurance of
an enlisted man.

To toughen the soldier so he can withstand the
physical hardships, the Army will give him rigor-
ous training; to aid in building up his morale——
his esprit de corps, his will to win—the Army will
look after his physical and mental welfare. The
Army’s recreation and entertainment program will
be directed toward making every soldier a hard,
efficient, and thoroughly disciplined fighting man.

In the office of the Adjutant General in Wash-
ington the War Department has set up the Morale
Division to consolidate, coordinate, and adminis—
ter the various activities that relate to the creation
of a high morale and sound discipline in the Army.
The division is subdivided into nine sections, each
with a particular morale function to perform, and
an idea of its organization and the work each sec-
tion handles may be gained from the following
outline:

Administrative Section. General direction, su-
pervision and coordination of all Division activi-
ties; general correspondence. This section is di-
rectly under the officer in charge of the Division
and the executive officer.

Welfare Section. All matters pertaining to
civilian welfare agencies; cooperation with civilian
communities and the American Red Cross; opera-
tion and maintenance of guest houses and service
clubs; Government insurance; Soldiers and Sail—
ors Civil Relief Act of 1940.

Recreation Section. All matters pertaining to
recreation and recreation facilities, recreational
athletics, theatricals, social activities.

Army Library Section. Reading material for
post and camp libraries.

Budget and Estimate Section. Estimates of funds
under the appropriation for the “Welfare of En-
listed Men, Army.”

Miscellaneous Section. Operation and mainte-
nance of post exchanges; awarding of trophies;
questions relating to insignia and heraldry; War
Department exhibits.

(Continued on page 695)

 

I The Contribution of National Organizations

In the field of private egort, national organizations whose activities
and services are concerned with some phase of leisure time through
educational and recreational interests have for many years been giving
invaluable service. Many governmental agencies have profited by the
'y experimentation and studies carried on by these private groups, all

American Association for

Adult Education

ciation for Adult Education served as a clear-
ing house for information in the field of adult
education; assisted enterprises already in opera-
tion; helped organizations and groups to initiate
l activities in adult education; and aided and advised
lindividuals who, although occupied with some
i primary vocation or interest, desired to continue
‘their education. Emphasis was placed upon ex-
l ploration and encouragement of new fields of in-
'. tellectual activity for the education of adults.
l In this period the Association also helped local
. i groups to set up projects in communities to demon-
I strate the value of a form or type of adult educa-
@ tion not only to the community in which the proj-
l ect was located but to the whole country as well.
I An extensive library of books and pamphlets for
1 the use of members of the Association and the
.' public was assembled at headquarters in charge of
a librarian who now serves about two hundred
’ persons monthly by correspondence, by telephone,
7 and in person.
i In 1936, after a decade of experimentation and
demonstration, it seemed advisable to pause to
’ examine accomplishments and trends, and possibly
‘ to chart a new course for the future. In order to
‘, discover the meaning and estimate the worth of
adult education as a social
movement among other social
J movements, the Association
} undertook a study of the
social significance of adult
' education. The findings of the
study have been issued at ir—
regular intervals since I937
l in brief, nonstatistical, attrac-
tively printed books. Indi-
gviduals who have made the

‘ DURING ITS FIRST decade the American Asso-

 

Following a series of regional and national
conferences of persons interested in the
field of adult education called by the
Carnegie Foundation, the American As-
sociation for Adult Education was or-
ganized in Chicago in March, I926. Its
purpose is to "further the idea of edu-
cation as a continuous process through-
out Iite." The offices of the Association
are located at 60 E. 42nd Street. New York
City. Morse A. Cartwright is Director.

of which have representation in the Education-Recreation Council.

studies have had a general knowledge of adult
education but have not regularly engaged in work
in the subject they have examined. The entire
program has been made possible by funds pro-
vided for the purpose by the Carnegie Corpora—
tion of New York.

In the fall of 1939, as a result of the outbreak
of war in Europe, members of the Executive
Board of the Association voted to undertake an
active program of adult education for democracy.
Publication of the study series will be curtailed
when the studies now in preparation have been
completed. If funds are available, the proposed
program will include: research and practical ex-
perimentation through the Readability Laboratory
at Teachers College, Columbia University, and
other agencies in the simplification. of material for
students at many educational levels; a campaign
to encourage local leaders to form community,
state, and regional associations for adult educa-
tion; experimentation in teaching and discussion
techniques for adults; publication of teaching ma-
terials for adults; and active c00peration with or-
ganizations and agencies that are concerned with
adult education.

American Association of
Museums

HIS ASSOCIATION is not directly engaged in
educational or recreational work. Its publica-
tions and activities are for the
benefit of museums, which
do direct work in these lines.

A recent three-volume pub-
lication—“The Museum in
America” by Laurence Vail
Coleman—is a critical study
of museums and their edu-
cational and recreational work,
based on field surveys of
more than 2,000 museums.

665

666 THE AMERICAN COUNTRY LIFE ASSOCIATION

The Museum News, pub-
lished biweekly by the As-
sociation, reports recrea-
tional and educational ac-
tivities of museums. This
publication goes to muse-
ums and museum people
throughout the country.

Membership is made up of individuals paying
dues of $5 a year and museums contributing from
$10 to $250 a year. Any museum may pay mini—
mum dues, but those with operating income of
more than $10,000 yearly are asked to contribute
at the rate of $1 per $1,000 of income.

The Association is governed by a board of
thirty Councilors who are museum trustees or di-
rectors, elected for three-year terms, representing
the museums of the United States geographically
and by subjects.

The staff of the Association makes studies of
museum conditions and methods, and distributes
the results of its work through books and serial
publications which are available to members at 20
per cent less than list price. A complete list of
publications will be sent free upon request.

Members receive current issues of two serials:
The Museum News, a newspaper reporting current
events in the museum field and containing reviews
and special articles, issued biweekly except in
summer, and a new series of technical publications
of the American Association of Museums, issued
occasionally.

The Association advises on museum problems
by correspondence, and by conference in office and
field. It has made grants-in-aid to museum people
for travel and study. It has assisted in financing
projects of more than local importance, and has
organized and built museums embodying new
ideas. In these and other ways the Association
promotes the interests of the museum profession,

The American Association of Museums was
organized in I906 to help museums solve
their problems and increase their useful-
ness. Headquarters are at Washington.
D. C.. in offices made available in the
Smithsonian lnstitute.
man is the Director of the Association.

and rural life. It was or-
ganized by a small group
consisting mainly of soci—
ologists, educators, and
churchmen. In a few words,
the purpose has been to as-
sist lay and professional
leaders interested in rural
improvement to consider their goals, methods and
problems.

The Association now has artists and economists,
extension workers, officers of women’s clubs, agri—
cultural college presidents, social workers, libra-
rians, research workers, officers of farm organi-
zations, in addition to the three original groups.
It thus brings into association a wide variety of
interests, and it has been said on a few occasions
that it is “too diffuse.” The members vary from
those who idealize country life to those hard-
bitten or hardheaded people who work only on
technical matters. Within the past few years those
with artistic interests have become much more
prominent than previously.

Laurence V. Cole-

Methods and Activities

Procedures and activities are almost wholly in-
formal and educational. Although the Associa-
tion is not a 'council, it does make contacts be- _
tween organizations. It has no state and no local
organizations. It issues a small periodical, and
conducts a national conference on a timely issue
or theme such as “Rural Government” in 1931;
“Building Rural Communities” in 1940. It deals
with many inquirers and consults with people with
interests much too numerous to mention.

The most hopeful recent development has been
work with youth. Country youth are reconsider-
ing the country, and an important reason is the '
scarcity of jobs -in the city. In 1929 there were
ten student clubs affiliated and paying a member-

ship fee. In 1940 there were seventy. The youth 

groups discuss rural subjects, make local studies, ,2
and provide fellowship among those who wish,

contributes to the educational and administrative
advancement of museums, and assists in the es-
tablishment of new museums of desirable type.

The American Country Liie
Association

HE ASSOCIATION was organized in 1919 and
has lived all of its life in the hurly-burly of
the post-war period and a generally unfavorable
time in the history of American agriculture

to do professional work in the country.

Adult education has become a major interest. I
The Association has always been an agency of :
adult education, although the term was not used '
originally. The Secretary of the Association pub-
lished a book entitled “Rural Adult Education,” in
April, 1933, finishing a work begun by the late
John D. Willard for the American Association for‘
Adult Education. There is a steady demand for
nonpartisan interpretation of rural events and.

 

THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS 667

issues, e.g., occasional lec-
tures, and the demands
come frequently from urban
groups.

Frequently the Associa-
tion has defended a par-
ticular piece of work as, for
example, county health de-
partments, in the name of
constructive economy. The
Association constantly tries
to remind social work and
government leaders that one
of their great frontiers is still the countryside—-
with many of the 3,000 counties having no real
social work at all.

To work for rural improvement one must in-
fiuence urban as well as rural opinion. The As-
sociation is increasingly committed to an urban-
rural approach to rural problems.

improvement."

The American Federation

of Arts

h HP. AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS is a na-
, tional organization which has as its purpose
the development of art and its appreciation. It
r was organized in 1909, at a convention held in
‘ \Vashington. by a group of men of affairs (in-
l cluding the late Elihu Root, Robert Bacon, Sena-
II tor Henry Cabot Lodge and Charles D. Freer, not
' to mention all) who had themselves found pleasure
and recreation in art and desired to extend such
I leasure throughout the United States. They had
Fhe further purpose of unifying the art interests
of the country and binding them together, on the
assumption that union brings strength, and that

i the benefits of team work have been demonstrated
so often as to become axiomatic.

Those who founded the American Federation
of Arts did not dream of the many specific ave-
nues of approach to their aims which have been
opened as the organization grew. It has now be-
come a national clearing house of information on
matters of art. Reference files have gradually been
built up over a period of years, and it is the Fed-

' eration’s policy to answer any inquiry relating to
the arts, no matter what the source. If the Feder-
ation is unable to supply the information requested,
the inquiry is referred to another source. A de-

velopment of this service has led the AFA into

In the words of the official statement of
its purpose. the American Country Life As-
sociation was organized "to facilitate dis-
cussion; to serve as a clearing house of
information; to bring together people and

agencies: to aid wherever we can in rural
Other
sometimes used to denote purpose: "We
work for a worthy country life in America."
or "We strive to build a fine rural civiliza-
tion." The Association's offices are at 297
Fourth Avenue, New York City. Benson Y.
LandisI Ph.D., is the Executive Secretary.

larger projects, which some-
times required special grants
to accomplish. For exam-
ple, the work the Federation
has done in supporting or
sponsoring legislation affect-
ing the arts; and community-
problems touching upon the
creation of further develop-
ment of local art associa-
tions, and the founding of
new museums would come
under this heading.

The American Federation of Arts is obliged to
depend largely upon members and Chapters for its
support, for it has always been a non-profit or-

expressions are

ganization, and engages as far as possible, in free

services. The quality of the membership testifies
to the Federation’s value. The leading art mu-
seums, art associations, college art departments,
women’s clubs and similar groups constitute the
approximately 500 chapters of the Federation. In
addition, there are about 6,000 individual members
and library subscribers.

Strengthened by the support of these institu-
tions, organizations and private citizens, the Fed-
eration in turn gives them special privileges and
services. These include a subscription to the M aga-
zine of Art without charge to every Chapter and
member ; two traveling exhibitions, without a fee,
from a group reserved for Chapters, and two il-
lustrated lectures without a fee to every Chapter.
Chapters further receive substantial discounts
(10% to 20%) on the rental of all exhibitions
circulated by the Federation. Individual members,
in the Associate Class ($5 a year), may rent lec—
tures at 50% discount; Active Members ($10 a
year) receive two lectures without fee. All in-
dividual members may use the Package Library
without fee; and are also entitled to one study
outline selected from a wide range of subjects in
art. All Chapters and members who purchase
books and color prints through the Federation,
receive discounts of 10% off price of the first and
25% off price of the second. Finally, individual
members are admitted free to art museums
throughout the United States, on days when there
is normally a charge.

‘The Magazine of Art has been published
monthly, without interruption, since October, 1909.
It has been greatly enlarged and transformed
since it began as a general readers’ publication
upheld to a professional standard. Efforts have

668 AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION

been made to keep readers informed of the most
significant happenings, of progressive movements,
of real achievement. Emphasis has been on con—
temporary American art; but great art of the past
has had a large share of attention in the maga-
zine. In typography, quality of illustrations and
,color plates, the magazine has endeavored to be
outstanding, as well as in the character and au—
thenticity of the articles. In 1913, the American
Federation of Arts took over publication of the
American Art Annual, the only complete book of
reference on contemporary American art, which
had been founded in 1898. This publication is in-
dispensable to libraries, art museums and associa-
tions. It contains comprehensive reports of art
museums, galleries, associations and schools, a re-
view of the whole field of art during the year,
lists of magazines and newspapers giving space to
art news, obituaries of American artists, and full
auction reports on paintings. For more than
thirty—five years, the Annual also included a di-
rectory of painters, sculptors, and others, rotating
the classifications. But the steady growth of the
Annual made it necessary to publish the artists’
directory as a separate volume in 1935. The
American Art Annual and W ho’s Who in Ameri-

can Art are now published in alternate years.
From time to time the American Federation of

Arts issues special publications, some of which
have been given without charge to the general
public and the members.

The American Federation of Arts originated.
the traveling exhibition in order to make avail-.

able to hundreds of communities and thousands of
people, original paintings, sculpture and other
works of art generally to be seen only in large
cities. Three exhibitions sent out in 1909-1910
were the beginning of a system of which the tech-
nicalities have been highly developed, and the
scope of the shOWS greatly extended: 1,500 dif-
ferent exhibitions with over 7,000 individual
showings have been assembled by the American
Federation of Arts in the past thirty years. They
are shown on an average in
250 communities annually.
They have visited every
state in the Union except
Nevada, and have gone
abroad to many places in.
Europe, to Canada, to South
America, to New Zealand.

of having a definite purpose

''The American Federation of Arts is an
art-educational organization designed to
initiate services and find new ways of
making the arts a vital part of everyday
life. . . . It stands for the solidarity of
the arts, and hopes and works toward the
end of making art a part of the life of
. every American.ll Headquarters are locat-
Furthermore, the PraCtlCe ed at 80| Barr Building. Washington.

D. C.. and Thomas C. Parker is Director.

behind each exhibition, has grown steadily. Shows
are especially arranged for colleges, high schools,
rural circuits, and are accompanied by explanatory
notes. But the Federation does not stop with giv-'
ing the public an opportunity to see original works.
It endeavors to help the artist by making sales.
Last year, a Special Sales Plan was formulated;
briefly, it comprises two methods. Each exhibitor
renting a “Sales” show under the first, is free to
choose one work for his collection, which he will
receive after the circuit is completed. Under the
second, if he rents a show and buys or sells some-
thing from it, his rental fee is refunded, in whole
or in part, according to the amount of the sale.
The results have been most encouraging. The Plan
has aroused new interest and support from deal-
ers, new enthusiasm on the part of the exhibitors,
and finally, the Plan has produced more sales of
works of art during the past year than during any
year in the preceding decade.

American Library Association

N JULY, 1924, the American Library Association
I appointed a Commission on the Library and
Adult Education “to study the adult education
movement and the work of libraries for adults and .
for older boys and girls out of school, and to re-
port its findings and recommendations to the
A.L.A. Council.” This Commission produced a
rather notable report, “Libraries and Adult Edu—
cation,” which has for a number of years served
as the guide and handbook in the development of
adult education work in libraries.

In 1926 the Association created a standing
Adult Education Board of five members which
guides the policy of the Association in this field of '
work. With the exception of a few- years during .
the depression era, there has been a paid full-time .,
assistant or secretary at the headquarters office of {7'
the Association in Chicago, devoting full time to i”
this work. The Association, through its Adult?"
Education Board and its
headquarters’ representa-
tive, has several objectives:

It promotes interest in:
the development of more cf»,~
fective educational services
for adults in libraries, espe-
cially services to assist peo-'
ple interested in self-edur
cation through reading. ‘

THE BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA 669

It attempts to publish
various aids in the form of
case studies, booklets, sug-
gested projects, etc., and to
exchange experience be-
tween libraries in order that
procedures for this kind of
service may develop more rapidly and effectively.

It promotes meetings, conferences, exhibits,
institutes and similar activities among librarians
interested in adult education service.

It maintains contacts with other national pro-
fessional organizations interested in the field of
adult education in order to keep libraries informed
of activities in the general field of adult education
and in order to help the other workers know of
the interests and services of libraries in this field.

The Adult Education Board occasionally takes
leadership in promoting special emphasis among
libraries of the country on some topic that is for
the moment of wideSpread national interest or im-
portanCe. For example, at the present time it is
doing all possible to encourage libraries to set up
programs and services which will help people to
understand the meaning, the requirements, and the
obligations of democracy and to help people gain
a clearer vision of some of the fundamental dif-
ficulties in our present-day society which con-
tribute to the present turmoil, and for the solution
of which there must be more widespread and
effective popular education.

The Boy Scouts of America

HE Bov Scours OF AMERICA through its pro-

gram offers in Scouting a game for boys under
the leadership of boys with the wise guidance and
counsel of a grown-up who has still the enthusi-
asm of youth in him. A purposeful game, but a
game just the same, a game that develops charac-
ter by practice, that trains for citizenship—through
experience in the out of doors.

Scouting is a game; the aim and purpose is
character building and citizenship training. The
essential elements of the Boy Scout program are
the Scout Oath and Law, and
the Ideals of Service of Scout
activities are a means of mak-
ing these ideals effective.

The Program
The Boy Scout program
reaches the following age levels :

The headquarters of the American Library
Association are at 520 North Michigan
Avenue. Chicago; its Executive Secretary is
Carl H. Milam. The Association issues a
number of publicationsI among them the
"Bool(list.'I published semi-monthlyI and
the "A.L.A. Bulletin." appearing monthly.

The Boy Scouts of America in I940
celebrated its thirtieth anniversary.
lts headquarters are located at 2 Park
Avenue. New York City
West is Chief Scout Executive. It is-
sues a number of monthly publications
and a series of practical booklets.

The Cub program for boys
nine to eleven years of age;
Scouting for boys twelve
years of age and upward,
and Senior Scouting for
boys and yOUng men fifteen
years of age and over.

Cub Program. The Cub Program is a home-
centered program based on the natural interests
of boys of Cub age under the leadership of a Den
Chief, an older boy; a Den Mother, (mother of
one of the Cubs) ; a Cubmaster and a Pack Com-
mittee, (usually fathers of boys). Cub activities
include knowledge of the flag, games, safety prac-
tices, health practices, helpfulness in the home,
handcraft, making collections and scrap books,

rope work, and knowledge of the ideals and law
of Cubbing.

Scout Program. Activities in the Scout Pro-
gram include practice of the Scout Oath and Law,
hrst aid, signaling, tracking, use of knife, hatchet
and axe, outdoor tire making, outdoor cooking,
thrift, compass work, safety, swimming, map
reading and making, udging, nature study, camp-
craft, woodcraft, an extended series of hobbies

and pre-vocational explorations through the Merit
Badge work.

Senior Scouting. Senior Scouting is divided into
two groups. Sea Scouting offering a program of
seamanship and Explorer Scouting a program of
advanced camping, advanced Merit Badge work
and adventurous exploration. Rover Scouting for

boys eighteen years of age and over is also
carried on.

Essential Elements in the Program. The essential
elements in the Scouting program are the boy as
an individual and as a member of a Patrol and
Troop in uniform. His leaders are trained volun-
teers. He follows a program of activity which
enables him to advance in rank. Recognition is
given for his achievement in the form of various
badges. Scout organization begins with the Troop
sponsored by an institution. In Cubbing the Cub
Pack is the unit, in Senior Scouting a Sea Scout
Ship or Senior Patrol or Troop. The Local Coun-
cil has jurisdiction over a cer-
tain assigned area. For con-
venience of administration the
country is divided into twelve
regions. The National Council
is the governing body func~
tioning during the intervals

. James E.

670 THE BOYS” CLUBS OF AMERICA

between its meetings through an Executive Board.
There is an International Scout Bureau.

Membership
The following membership figures are as of
January 1941:

Total Boys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,105,941

Total Leaders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343,471

Grand Total Membership . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,485,613*

Total TrOOps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40,959

Total Packs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,045

Total Troops and Packs . . . . . . . . . . . .. 48,004

Total Councils . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 545

 

* Including 36,201 in the Philippines.

The Boys' Clubs of America

HE Bovs’ CLUBS OF AMERICA is a federation of
Tboys’ clubs and affiliated organizations con-
ducting constructive leisure time activities for
boys and specializing in ser—
vice to underprivileged boys.
Its purpose is to assist in
the development and organi-
zation of Boys’ Clubs; to
provide information and
service to member organiza-
tions in the field of program,
finance and fund raising,
personnel training and selec-
tion, building program
planning, Club management
and operation; and to initiate clinics, conferences
and institutes for the purpose of exchanging ex-
periences, demonstrating practices and sharing
thinking in the range of Boys’ Club and related
activity. The federation makes available for con-
sultation and advice field representatives who are
specialists in the program and administration of a
Boys’ Club.

There are 348 member organizations in 194
cities and towns, with a total boy membership of
295,732; 31,421 boy members in New York City.
Membership is not restricted to boys of any spe-
cific race, creed or age group.

ecutive Director.

The Program

The Boys’ Club is an organization which carries
on activities for constructive use of leisure time
under trained leadership for boys up to twenty-
one years of age. It is nonsectarian in its work
and control.

Character building is the primary function of
the Boys’ Club. In a building or a place located

The Boys' Clubs of America. Inc.I was or-
ganized in Boston on May l9. I906, as the
Federated Boys' Clubs. Jacob Riis was the
first president. May 19. l94|I will mark
the thirty-fifth anniversary of the found-
ing of the organization. Herbert Hoover
is Chairman of the Board; William Edward
HallI President; William ZieglerI Jr.l Sec-

retary; David W. Armstrongl Active Ex-
Headquarters are at

38| Fourth AvenueI New York City.

in or close to the areas inhabited by families of
low income, the Boys’ Club attracts boys of
limited income homes as well as those more fortu-
nate. Its doors are open during the dangerous
after-school and evening hours to all of its mem-
bers all of the time. Fees are so low that the
poorest boy may belong and there are no restric-
tions as to race, creed, condition or character.

The Boys’ Club conducts a recreational pro—
gram that provides for physical and health train-
ing and makes available health examinations to
discover physical defects, then enlists community
resources for their correction. It gives individual
training in recreational and vocational skills,
makes it possible to test aptitudes, and guides boys
in their vocational development. It provides con—
stant leadership in a normal, informal relationship,
guiding the behavior of boys, their attitudes to-
ward home, school, church, employer, government
and other life associations.

The total Boys’ Club
program is a coordination of
recreational, vocational, edu-
cational, cultural and social
activities on a democratic
basis for as many boys as
it can accommodate.

Publications include The
Keystone, a manual of pro-
gram service, and Boys’
Clubs, a magazine.

The Camp Fire Girls

THE APPEAL of the Camp Fire Girls is to girls '

between ten and eighteen, with a separate pro-
gram of’fered to the eight and nine year olds who
belong to the junior organization, Blue Birds.
From six to twenty girls in a church, school, or
neighborhood form a Camp Fire group under the
leadership of an adult volunteer called the Guard-
ian. The dues are $1.00 a year. Each group has
one or more sponsors, or a sponsoring committee
from the membership of a civic club. In the larger
towns there are Local Councils composed of re-
sponsible citizens who supervise Camp Fire ac—
tivities and engage an executive to direct the work,
including the Camp Fire camp. Executives are
trained at the Executives’ School conducted in co-
operation with New York University. Training
courses for volunteers are conducted by executives
and national field secretaries. The National Coun-

l

THE CAMP FIRE GIRLS 671

cil provides guidance through
publications, training courses,
held service and correspond-
ence.

The purpose of the organi-
zation is to provide an oppor-
tunity for the girls’ personal
development through group
experience. To this end a pro-
gram of leisure-time activities
is offered which is designed to be fun for the
girls; to provide enriching experiences and help
them find joy, zest, and adventure in everyday
life; to cultivate skills; to give the girls practice
in the democratic way of working with others;
and to help them become self-reliant, happy indi-
viduals and responsible members of society.

The Program

The program, revised in 1936, is very flexible
and offers a wide choice of activities so that each
group, under the guidance of its leaders, may have
practice in planning and carrying out a program
suited to its own interests, abilities and needs. It
covers the range of girls’ interests, including home
making, handcraft, camping, nature study, dra-
matics, music, literature, games, sports, health,
personal grooming, social affairs, business, com-
munity and world-wide citizenship. The colorful
honors, ranks, symbolism and ritual of Camp Fire
appeal to the younger girls, while participation in
special projects having community significance is
offered the older girls.

Blue Birds is the junior organization for girls
from eight to ten. They have a special program
planned for them based on play activities. This
program was completely revised in 1938 in accord—
ance with present progressive education methods
{or this age group.

Each year a special project is suggested to
Camp Fire Girls throughout the country. This
project is designed to correlate and highlight the
regular program activities and to give the girls
wide opportunity to employ their individual inter-
ests and skills. During 1940, the project, empha-
sizing safety and health, was called “Skillful Liv-
ing.” Activities suggested were such as to bring
about awareness of community efforts for safety
and the part girls could play, to present things
which girls could make and do, especially in their
homes, and ways in which they could enlist the
cooperation of others. The enthusiasm for this
project was unexpected, indicating that even

The program of the Camp Fire Girls
was launched in |9| I and the organi-
zation was incorporated in I9I2. It
was planned by a group of educators'
including Dr. and Mrs. Luther Halsey
Guliclt. in response to the request of
girls for a program of leisure-time ac-
tivities. The headquarters are at 88
Lexington Avenue. New York City.
Lester F. Scott is National Executive.

safety, which has usually been
presented in its negative as-
pects, can be of vital interest
if there is an opportunity for
active participation and per-
sonal experience. Other proj-
ects which have highlighted
these phases of the Camp Fire
Girls program during recent
years have been Personality
(Making the Most of Me), Conservation (This
Land of Ours), and Citizenship (Americana).
This year’s project is centered around apprecia-
tion of and participation in the arts (Treasure
Trails).

Camping plays an important part in the Camp
Fire Girls program. Local Councils of Camp Fire
Girls maintain camps where several hundred girls
may spend from two weeks to all summer under
competent direction. Trends in these camps are
towards choice of activities within a framework
of the minimum regulations necessary for the
health and safety of the campers. Leadership, en-
vironment and equipment are provided to insure
a happy experience leading towards wholesome
personality development. Week-end and holiday
camping at these camps is popular during the
school year. In addition there are group camping
trips under the direction of adult group leaders
which give the girls experience in planning, or—
ganizing and group cooperation.

The membership as of January, 1941, was

approximately 290,397.

Resolution of Board of Directors of
Camp Fire Girls—May 1940

“In the presence of broken faith and bloodshed,
the ideals of life, liberty and the pursuit of hap-
pinesss become more precious. The Board of Di-
rectors of the Camp Fire Girls, Inc., resolves,
therefore:

“To stress the American ideals inherent in the
Camp Fire program—to help girls understand the
privileges and responsibilities of democracy—t0
give them actual experience in the democratic way.
For we do not believe that democracy has failed
because Fascism has proved powerful. We be-
lieve that democracy must be given new strength
and vigor. We have faith in the potentialities of
individuals and the possibility of individuals
working together for the common good. We be-
lieve that the training of our youth for democracy
is as important for our defense and for the

672 FEDERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN AMERICA

progress of the world as the purchase of tanks and
airplanes.

“To keep alive those things that are civilized in
our society—to stimulate, through appreciation
and participation, creative art and creative think—
ing, believing them to be life-continuing and life-
renewing through and beyond the present de-
struction.

“To give generously through the American Red
Cross and other agencies to the relief of war vic—
tims, realizing always that, while we do what we
can to assuage the suffering of the present, the
task and privilege of youth is to prevent the suf—
fering of the future.

“To hold to the faith that is ours in man and
God.”

Federal Council of the
Churches of Christ in America

HE EDUCATIONAL work of the Federal Council
T of the Churches of Christ in America aims to
get denominations, councils of churches and local
churches to work together in such projects of
practical Christianity as social service, evangelism
and worship, the Christianizing of industrial, ra—
cial and international relations, educational pre—
paration for marriage and the building of homes,
and study of the relation of religion to health and
the study of problems relating to church unity.
It also has a far-reaching radio program in which
it has the cooperation of city and state councils
of churches. Its Research Department publishes
“Information Service.” The Federal Council pro-
motes acquaintance with leaders of Christianity
in other lands and promotes in the United States
interests of the World Council of Churches. Its
staff members counsel with denominational and
other leaders, hold or assist in meetings and con-
ferences throughout the United States.

The concern of the Federal Council with rec-
reation is in the fact that
recreation is a part of the
life of all its churches and
should be part of the experi-
ence of all families. The De-
partment of the Church and
Social Service calls together
in conference representatives
of denominational boards,
pastors and other church

The Federal Council of the Churches of
Christ in America, comprising twenty-
two denominations in the United States
and the Dominion of Canada. works to
bring about the maximum of cooperation
among churches without exercising any
authority as to doctrine or church gov-
ernment. Headquarters are at 297 Fourth
Avenue. New York City. Samuel McCrea
Cavert. 0.0.. is General Secretary.

workers, representatives of homes and settlements
and advocates for all families opportunity for a
rich life including recreational opportunity and
constructive use of leisure time. The need for rec-
reation leadership is recognized in the training of
religious educators. A new feature of great inter-
est in the church world is the rapid development
of summer schools and conferences both for youth
and adults whose purpose is primarily the inspir—
ing and training of leaders and which, as a normal
accompaniment of summer school or camp life,
have carefully planned recreational programs as
part of the daily life together. In some instances
classes dealing with recreation programs in local
churches are conducted at these summer schools.
Members of the Federal Council staff cooperate in
many of these conferences and schools and profit
by the ties between the Federal Council of Churches
and the National Education—Recreation Council.

The Committee on Marriage and the Home or-
ganized under the Department of the Church and
Social Service has a special interest in recreation
in the home and constantly emphasizes the fact
that recreation as a part of a family’s life enables
members to know one another more thoroughly,
facilitates comradeship and a group spirit, adds to
the happy atmosphere of homes and has added
educational values for all members. The value of
hobbies, also, is recognized in the Federal Coun-
cil’s educational program for family life, especially
of shared interest 'in hobbies or those which may
become to a greater or less degree family projects
and shared experiences.

The Girl Scouts

HE PURPOSE of the Girl Scouts is to provide

each Girl Scout with opportunities for whole-
some recreation and the discovery of interests that
may be,of lifelong value to her; to help each girl
develop as an individual; to give each girl oppor-
tunities to be of service to others and develop '.
qualities that will make her a
good citizen; and to acquire,
in working to live up to the .
Girl Scout Promise and Laws,
a high standard of behavior. ‘

Program Activities

Girl Scouting provides a .
wide variety of activities to
be used, adapted and carried

,,out as the girls’ own inter—
Tests direct. There has been
,a complete revision of the

Girl Scout program since

1937 and the suggested pro—

gram activities have been

'r'assigned to meet the vary-

ing needs of three different
age groups: Brownies—
seven through nine years
of age; Girl Scouts ————ten
through fourteen years of

THE GIRL SCOUTS

Girl ScoutsI lnc., with its registered mem-
bership of 6l7.000 girls. is non-sectarianI
non-politicalI non-profit making. Member-
ship is open to all girls from 7-l8 years of
age who, by belonging to the Girl Scouts.
are one link in a chain of a world-wide
movement including hundreds of thousands
of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts in many
countries. The World Association promotes
unity of purpose and common understand-
ing and encourages friendship among girls
of all nations. The National Director is
Mrs. Paul Rittenhouse. Headquarters—

|4 West 49th StreetI New York City.

673

maintaining the Girl Scout
program locally. In small
communities where there are
fewer than five troops each
troop has its own individual
committee of men and
women who help the leader
and girls develop their pro-
gram. This group of adults
is known as a troop com-
mittee.

The organization seeks to

age; and Senior Girl Scouts

(including Mariners)—in senior high school, or
fifteen through eighteen years of age. Each age
level has its own activities, but all are bound to-
gether by the organization’s basic philosophy and
methods. They cover the same program fields,
each of which represents a present or potential
interest of girls: Homemaking, Out-of—Doors,
Nature, Sports and Games, Community Life,
Literature and Dramatics, Arts and Crafts, Music
and Dancing, International Friendship, Health
and Safety. To these are added the field of V0-
cational‘ Exploration for Senior Girl Scouts.

General Organization

The Girl Scout program is carried on in a small
group of girls and adult leaders called a Girl
Scout troop. The organization urges that the
planning in every troop be done in a democratic
way with each girl having a share in the making
and carrying out of plans. The leader acts as
guide, adviser and friend.

The affairs of the National organization are
managed by a Board of Directors. Much of the
administrative part of the work is carried out by
a National staff or professional workers.

The jurisdiction of the National organization
covers the states, territories and insular posses-
sions of the United States, and for practical pur-
poses the country is divided into twelve Girl Scout
regions. In each of these regions is a regional
committee which assists in the promotion and de-
ve10pment of Girl Scouts in its region. Professional
workers are assigned to the twelve regions to pro-
mote and develop Girl Scouting, organize and
train councils and give training courses for Girl
Scout leaders.

In local communities the Girl Scout program is
administered by a group of local men and women
who are known as a Girl Scout local council. This
group has the responsibility of developing and

maintain cooperative rela-
tionships with other organizations in the educa-

tional and social work fields and to undertake joint
planning where possible. The local council en-
deavors to make the community’s resources avail-
able to the girls and in turn helps the Girl Scouts

to make a contribution to the life of their own
community.

The Training Program

Girl Scouting has developed a training program
for all adult groups both volunteer and profes-
sional. Training courses are given by NatiOnal
staff members in National training schools during
the summer and in local communities throughout
the year. Ninety-nine per cent of the adult mem-
bership of the organization is volunteer.

(National)
Jewish Welfare Board

HE PURPOSE of the (National) Jewish Wel-

fare Board is to promote the religious, intel-
lectual, physical, and social well-being and de-
velopment of Jews, especially young men and
women, and to that end to stimulate the organiza-
tion of Jewish Community Centers, Y.M.H.A.’s,
Y.W.H.A.’s, and other kindred societies; to assist,
advise and encourage such societies already in ex-
istence and when formed; to further and corre—
late their activities, to promote the interchange of
advantages which they afford, and to cooperate
with other organizations for the development of
Judaism and good citizenship; to promote the
social welfare of soldiers, sailors and marines in
the Army and Navy of the United States, disabled
veterans and young men in CCC camps, and
especially to provide them with adequate oppor—

674 (NATIONAL) JEWISH WELFARE BOARD

tunity for religious worship, education, devotion,
solace and improvements.

Local afhliations of the Board are farI-fiung,
and there are seven regional federations of local
centers as follows: Associated Y.M. and Y.W.
H.A.’s of New England; Midwest Section, Jewish
Welfare Board; New Jersey Federation of Y.M.
H. A.’s and Y.V\’.H.A.’s; New York Metropolitan
Section, Jewish Welfare Board; New York State
Federation of Y.M.H.A.’s, Y.W.H.A.’s and Jew-
ish Community Centers; Pacific Coast Federation
of Jewish Community Centers, and Pennsylvania
Middle Atlantic Federation of Y.M. and Y.W.
H.A.’s and Kindred Associations.

Activities
Aid to New Immigrants. Information has been

collected relating to the adjustment of new immi-
grants, with special em-

sion of facilities of existing buildings; serves as a
fact-finding agency; makes evaluations of the
program of activities, administration, member-
ship problems, budget, and staff of local organiza-
tions ; collects and compiles data relating to Jew-
ish Centers and Jewish communities.

Jewish Extension Education. This department
prepares and distributes material for use in pro-
gram of Jewish Centers; advises local groups on
Jewish educational phases of the Jewish Center
program; promotes educational projects and ex-
periments, youth assemblies and discussion groups,
educational conferences, vocational exploration
forums; provides service in the observance of
special events; encourages the introduction of
special activities along creative Jewish lines—arts
and crafts, dramatics, music, literature; evaluates
programs of Jewish Centers and makes recom-

mendations for improve-

phasis on cultural, social,
Jewish, and citizenship
activities that aid in the
process. A function of the
Board has been to stimu-
late undertakings on be-
half of newcomers and to
give such aid as may be
helpful in establishing pro-
grams to facilitate their
absorption into normal
communal life.

The national organization of Young Men's
Hebrew Associations. Young Women's Hebrew
Associations. and Jewish Community Centers.
the Jewish Welfare Board. came into exist-
ence in l9l7. There are 3|7 constituent
(local) societies in the United States and
Canada. which embrace an aggregate individ-
ual membership of about 4.000.000 men and
women. boys and girls. of whom practically
one half are estimated to be between the
ages of I2 and 25 years. National head-

quarters are at 220 Fifth Avenue. New York
City. Louis Kraft is Executive Director.

ment and growth; assists
Sunday Schools and week-
day religious schools
housed in Jewish Centers
in the development of their
programs. e
Leadership Training De-
partment. It conducts a
demonstration leaders’
training course in group
work; offers workshop
training in arts and crafts,

Vocational Guidance. In
recognition of a natural concern of constituent
societies of the Board with the occupational future
of Jewish young people, there has been developed
a department of vocational guidance. Data has
been collected on various aspects of the vocational
problem, on the work of local organizations in
the conduct of group and individual guidance
services, and on employment activities of private
and public agencies.

Jewish Center Administration. This includes
statistical research in administration, membership,
finances and personnel practices; assistance in the
organization of new Centers; plans for the open-
ing of new buildings; Purchasing Information
Bureau; conduct of an Architectural and Equip-
ment Bureau; arrangement for group life insur-
ance for personnel of constituent societies.

Surveys and Studies. This department makes
surveys of local Jewish communities; interprets
the Jewish Center to the community; recommends
the establishment of new buildings and the exten-

music and dramatics;
maintains a placement service for trained leaders;

cooperates in sponsoring advanced leaders’ courses,
leaders’ institutes and leader publications; pre-
pares and distributes texts and other aids for
leaders; organizes, through the field service of the
Board, regional leaders’ training courses and co-
operates in the establishment of local training
courses.

Jewish Center Lecture and Concert Bureau. It 
maintains a reporting system on effectiveness of
lecturers and artists; advises as to availability and
costs of individual programs and courses; recruits
new talent suitable for Jewish Center programs;
arranges forum programs at Jewish Centers.

Personnel Department. It recruits candidates and
reviews applications for professional positions in
Jewish Center work; makes recommendations of
qualified candidates for placement in Jewish Cen-
ters in executive, sub-executive, and departmental

l

I' to the Jewish Center

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SETTLEMENTS

positions; provides for additional training in tech—
rniques and field experience for qualified applicants.

Field Service. Field workers arrange annual
regional conventions, regional educational confer-
ences, regional training courses in group work and
other inter-association activities; assist in the or—

' ganization and operation of regional camps; co-

operate with local Center executives and concern
themselves with problems of organization, pro—
gram, administration, finances and personnel, and

.the organization of new Centers.

Health and Camping. This department main—

‘_tainS an advisory service for Jewish organization

camps on problems of program, personnel, and
physical facilities; arranges for district confer-
ences on home and country camps; assists in the
coordination of registration for local and district
camps; cooperates with camps conducted by re—
gional organizations; conducts training programs
for camp counselors; develops standards of health
programs and prepares suitable literature on health
and related activities; supervises inter-association
athletic activities—competitive and cooperative;
maintains a placement service for physical edu—
cation directors.

Jewish Center Publications and Periodicals. The

. Jewish Center is the professional publication of

the Jewish Center movement published quarterly.
The JV! L A Review, a leader’s publication, is pub—
lished quarterly by the Metropolitan Leaders As—
sociation. Program bulletins and manuals as guides
in all phases of Center work are published.

Army and Navy Service Department. Social wel—
"fare and religious activities for Jewish men in the
army and navy and for disabled veterans of the
United States veterans hospitals continue to be a
function of the Board through its army and navy
service department.

Public Relations De-
partment. It provides a
continuous service of in-
terpretation of the work
of the Jewish Welfare
Board and its' relation to
the Jewish Center move-
ment and other Jewish
communal activities; co—
operates with all Jewish
and general organizations
operating in fields related

similar institutions .

movement.

In I929 the National Federation of Settlements

was incorporated in New York State "to tederate
the social settlements. neighborhood houses and
. . tor the purpose of pro-
-moting the welfare of the settlements and the
neighborhoods in which they are located; to en-
courage the development and maintenance of
settlements in conjunction with the people of the
various neighborhoods: to organize conferences.
groups and studies; to cooperate with private
and governmental agencies; to consider and act
upon public matters of interest to settlements
and their neighbors. and to act in an advisory

capacity to settlements and neighborhood houses."
Lillie M. Pecl< is Secretary of the Federation.
with offices at I47 Avenue B. New York City.

675

National Federation ot
Settlements

HE NATIONAL Federation of Settlements grew

out of informal conferences to which the early
pioneers in neighborhood work came to share their
experiences, their enthusiasm and hopes, and to
work together on national issues which affected
their neighbors. Formally organized in 1911, the
first officers were Jane Addams, president; Gay—
lord S. White, vice-president; Robert A. Woods,
secretary-treasurer, and Albert J. Kennedy, assist-
ant secretary. As its first project, the Federa-
tion undertook to work for legislation in behalf
of the Children’s Bureau. Its first study, pub-
lished under the title of Young Working Girls,
has proved of extensive and lasting value. The
National Federation of Settlements in recent years
has studied and taken action on living standards,
prohibition, housing, health, unemployment, and
health insurance.

Service Today

The Federation arranges through the Secre-
tary for consultation on settlement method and
practice, and for visits to settlements in the field.

Organizes annual national and regional con—
ferences. _

Publishes Bulletins and Round Tables devoted
to the results of experience with program, method
and standards, and other material of interest to
settlements. In addition, sends reprints and special
articles to all individual and agency members.

Encourages the development of high standards
of personnel and service.

Brings together the results of research and day-
to-day experience in settlement neighborhoods in
connection with special
studies of health, hous—
ing, unemployment, etc.,
and makes these data
available for use.

Acts as a clearing
house for information on
settlements and neigh-
borhood work.

Provides information
on public issues and legis-
lation of special concern
to settlements.

Represents its, mem—
bers in work with other

676 NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC CHARITIES

national groups, as: Na-
tional Education — Recrea-
tion Council, National
Conference of Social Work,
National Social Work
Council, Consumers Na-
tional Federation, National
Council for Mothers and

Babies, National Refugee
Service, International Association of Settlements.

Membership

Agency: Any settlement or neighborhood agency
which has been in existence for two years may
apply for membership. Application should be
made to the Secretary for presentation to the
Board of Directors, and will be considered on the
basis of program of work and personnel, follow-
ing a visit to the agency by an officer or member
appointed by the Board of Directors. Annual
dues: Assessed at the rate of $3 per $1,000 of ex-
penditure exclusive of capital outlay.

Individual: Any person interested in the Na-
tional Federation may hold individual member-
ship. Ammal contribution: $5 or more. Indi-
vidual members pay no registration fee at annual
national conferences.

Staff: Any settlement staff worker except the
headworker may hold staE membership. Annual

dues: $2.

Organization

The policy of the Federation is established by
the Board of Directors which meets twice yearly.
This Board is comprised of the officers, division,
department and committee chairmen, representa-
tives of city federations of settlements, and fifteen
members at large, elected for a term of two years
by vote of the annual conference.

National Conference of
Catholic Charities

THE BASIC PURPOSES of the National Confer-
ence of Catholic Charities are to bring about
an exchange of opinion and experience among
Catholic agencies in the United States; to develop
a national outlook and a national leadership in
Catholic social work; to build up a- body of litera-
ture on-Catholic social work; to assist the various
dioceses in the development of their programs and

The National Conference of Catholic Chari-
ties. whose headquarters are at l3|7 F Street.
N.W.. Washington. D. C.. has a membership
of approximately 3.500 individuals and ISO
organizations. lts activities include an annual
meeting. institutes. surveys. publication of
literature. field visits. and representation on

national committees. Rt. Rev. Msgr. John
O'Grady. Ph.D.. is Secretary of the Conference.

to correlate the work of
existing programs.

One may ask what this
has to do With leisure-
time activities. Like all
social agencies, ours is nat-
urally interested in the
preventive aspects of so-
cial work. Catholic social
work as a whole is essentially supplementary to
the normal pastoral activities of the Church. In
its pastoral activities the Church uses both the in-
dividual and the group work approach. It deals
with the individual in regard to his individual
problems. It also keeps in mind that the Church
is essentially a body, an organization. It is a com-
munion through which the individuals find ex-
pression as a group. It develops neighborhood in-
fluence and consciousness which strengthens the
family. It, therefore, builds up all those neigh-
borhood forces that create a more wholesome en—
vironment for the individual.

The Catholic social agency must follow the same
pattern. We are interested in promoting this pat-
tern. We want to see Catholic agencies have not
only the individual but also the group approach to
their work. In the group approach they must con-
sider the normal leisure—time activities of group -
members. These activities will be cultural, they
Will be character building; they will tend to COUn-
teract the tendency toward isolation in individual
and family life.

The National Recreation
Association

HE SERVICES of the National Recreation As-

sociation include the development of amateur 1'
recreation —- physical, rhythmic, 'manual, social, 1
dramatic, mUsical and artistic—by service to pub- If
lic and private recreation authorities and social
and civic agencies, individuals, and home, church,
industry and many other groups. (Professional
sports or commercial amusements do not have a
place in the program.)

Personal service, on request, in the communities
Wishing to establish public recreation.

Personal service helping to extend recreation
programs, already established, to a larger number
of men, women and children.

Training and consulting service by specialists

THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 677

in games, athletics, girls’
' work, recreation in insti-
, tutions, parks, colored

work, music, drama, arts
' and crafts, gardening, na-
. ture school, and rural rec—
' reation.

Publications; corre—
spondence and consulta—
tion bureau; personnel
service; research; clearing

l house for recreation infor-
' mation and experience.

Growth of Movement

Cities

Reporting
Association’s Contribu- Organized Expenditures
Year Expenditures tors Recreation Reported

. 1906 $ 1,687.02 189 41

l 1907 9,914.44 507 57 $ 904,102.00
‘ 1930 406,900.00 13,345 980 38,518,200.00
1939 215,309.36 8,836 1,204 31,911,04800

I . Present Officers

John G. VVinant, Concord, N. H., First Vice-
l- President; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Second
1 V ice-President ; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, New York
li City, Third Vice—President; Gustavus T. Kirby,
New York City, Treasurer; Howard S. Braucher,

. New York City, Secretary.

Financial Support

Contributions from 8,836 persons in nearly
1,000 communities, usually secured by local vol—
” unteer sponsors.

; Field of Service

Out of 6,000 towns and cities in America only

1,204 reported recreation under leadership in 1939
' for the Year Book.

Special studies and careful estimates indicate a
need of many times the present leadership. Park
acreage in seventy-five per cent of the cities re-
porting parks is below accepted standards. Only
a small proportion of the boys and girls needing
recreation service are getting it. Effective use of
large public investment in
recreation facilities depends
upon energetic service of a
national agency.

Services rendered are avail-
able only through this As-
sociation with its more than

In I906 an organizing group met at the White
House with President Theodore Roosevelt to
secure the establishment of a nationalI non-
profit, educational agencyI determined "that
every child in America shall have a chance
to play; that everyone in America, young and
old, shall have an opportunity to find the
best and most satisfying use of leisure time."
Among the early leaders in advocating the
constructive use of leisure time were Theo-
dore Roosevelt, Jacob Riisl Jane Addams,
and Joseph Lee. The Secretary of the National
Recreation Association, located at 3l5 Fourth
Avenue, New York City, is Howard Braucher.

This material on the educational and
recreational program of the Y.W.C.A.'s
presented here has been abstracted
from the total program voted by the
I938 convention of the National Board,
Young Women's Christian Associations.

thirty—four years of suc—

cessful leadership and

proved capacity.
Products

Growth in education,
health, safety, personality,
happiness, mental power
and character of children
and adults.

Liveable and beautiful
communities with parks,
playgrounds, swimming
pools, community centers,
camps, drama groups, musical organizations, and
other recreation facilities and activities.

The Young Women's
Christian Associations

HE EDUCATIONAL and recreational programs of
the Y.VV.C.A.’s should be planned in accord-
ance with the following objectives:

a. To assist the individual to discover for herself :

(I) The spiritual purpose and ethical stand-
ards that should govern her life.

(2) The interests and skills essential to the
enrichment of her leisure.

(3) Her relation to her work, her family, her
friends and her community.

(4) Her part in the movement to create a bet-
ter society.

b. To combine the elements of education that en-
courage initiative and freedom for the indi—
vidual with those that provide the values of
group experience and foster a sense of respon-
sibility for the social good.

c. To develop inigroups of similar social back—
ground a consciousness of their common inter-
ests in relation to the good of society, and also
to develop a reciprocal understanding and
feeling of obligation between those of differing
social experience through
their common adherence to
the Association’s objec—
tives.

d. To promote programs that
will deal with the follow-
ing subjects according to

678

THE YOUNG I/VOMEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS

the interest of those involved and the resources of
the Association:

(I)

(2)

Religion. The aim of the Y.\N.C.A. is, to en-
courage intelligent and active commitment to
its purpose. The religious backgrounds found
in both the membership and the constituency
of the Y.W.C.A. should be taken into consid-
eration in developing ways and forms for
achieving this end. Such points as the fol-
lowing should be covered:

(a) Study and discussion of growth in the
knowledge and love of God; of the
bearing of the Christian religion upon
social reconstruction; of the resources
and materials of Christian history and
literature, especially the New Testament.

(b) The Association believes worship, per—
sonal and corporate, to be central in re-
ligious experience. Attention is called to
the provisions in the Industrial Study for
the experience of worship through the
church and individual devotion, as well
as for such discovery and experimenta-
tion as new situations, special types of
experience and younger members make
desirable.

Health. The health education program in the
Association should include individual service
on personal health problems; educational pro-
grams relating to health and recreation; ac-
tivities that build health and develop skills in
recreation and the provision of opportunities
for continuing participation in these recrea-
tional activities. Responsibility for this pro-
gram is shared by all groups in the Associa-
tion. Such a program constitutes a legiti-
mate cost to the Association and should be
so budgeted. The emphases for the biennium
will be placed upon the following subjects:

(5) Work Relationships.

(3) The Arts. Programs in the arts, such as

music, dancing, drama, crafts, motion picture
appreciation, should be so developed as to
provide for the individual new forms of self-
expression and to reveal new insights into the
social experience of the present and the cul-
tural heritage of the past.

(4) Family Relationships. The ideals of family

life, of the marriage relationship and of par—
enthood should be our ultimate concern in
the program for all groups. But special con-
sideration must be given to the immediate
and pressing needs of young women, with
direct reference to pre-marital problems and
education. '

The program should
provide an understanding of the position and
problems of workers and employers in rela—
tion to trends in society; of the laws protect-
ing women at work; of the movements among
workers for their own improvement; of the
movement to raise the status of household
employment through consideration of the
problems of the employer and the employee
and through promotion of voluntary .agree-
ments which conform to the standards sug- '
gested by the National Committee on House-
hold Employment. The program should aim
to help girls with their vocational problems
and, where needed, should provide assistance
through the employment of well-qualified .-
vocational counselors. '

(6) Social Responsibility. The program should

develop understanding of the problems inher-

ent in the present social and economic order
that affect lives of women and girls and re-
tard or block the building of a world com- ‘
munity. Groups and individuals within the 9

(a) Nutrition, relaxation
and sex education.

(b) Work on community
health problems and
cooperation with pub-
lic and private health
agencies.

(c) The study of admin-
istrative practices in
relation to program
trends.

Organized in I906. the National Board. Young
Women's Christian Associations of the United
States of America. now has a membership of
422 community and 590 student associations.
Headquarters are at 600 Lexington Avenue.
New York. Emma P.Hirth is General Secretary.
Primary phases of the program include building
an educational and recreational program for
the development and enrichment of the indi-
vidual; serving girls and women through vari-
ous forms of personal adjustment. through em-
ployment. through housing and food service: and
working as a social force for a better society.

constituency should be
encouraged to recog— .'
nize their common prob-
lems and to work by the
exercise of the franchise:

and by concerted action
with other groups for the
improvement of these con- '
ditions. The support of a
positive program for peace I
should be considered basic
in all such efforts.

THE YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS 679

The Young Men's Christian

Associations

OUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS are es-

l ' Y tablished at 1,288 points in the United States.
' These points are in cities (849), in small towns
and rural centers (83), on railroad systems (127),
on college campuses (192), and at army and navy
posts (37). Local membership arrangements,
while exhibiting certain common characteristics,
are not uniform. The number of members and
other registered constituencies was, at the end of

' 1939, 1,558,465. Sixty-live per cent or more of
these would be between the ages of 12 and 30.
Nine per cent (and a growing number) are women
and girls. The organized groups through which
many of the activities are carried on (i.e., classes,
, clubs, teams, committees, etc.) had enrollments

totaling 2,215,449.

The Y.M.C.A. program on its educational and
recreational side consists of :

l
l
l Vocational education courses, junior colleges,
professional colleges, or “unit courses.” (273
Y.M.C.A.’s offer some “formal education” oppor-
tunities ; twenty-live having well developed schools,
‘ many of these with separate buildings, organized

faculties, and degree-granting privileges.)

An extensive (and growing) program of “in-
formal education” (organized groups under good
leadership, but not part of a vocational or curricu—
lar program) dealing with the arts—dramatics,
orchestras, choral societies, camera clubs and the
like; problems of marriage and family life; citi-
zenship, national and world affairs; travel; social
and creative skills—writing, dancing, social eti-
quette, leathercraft and others; occupational in-
terests and vocational adjustment.

Recreation guidance services in larger cities.

An extensive program of sports, gymnasium
classes, and health activities..

A wide variety of in-
formal social-recreational
. activities, an increasing vol-

and young women together.
(Dancing and out-of-door
life are samples.)

Camping, hiking—on all
age levels—with ownership
of permanent camp sites by

Local Young Men's Christian Associations

throughout the country are joined in a
National Council that meets annually. and
in continuing assemblies, councils. protes-
ume Of these for Young men sional societiesl and committees.
sustain national relations with other or-
ganizations and government departments.
The National Council of Young Men's Chris-
tian Associations of the United States of

America maintains headquarters at 347

Madison Avenue' New York City. The

General Secretary is Eugene E. Barnett.

a considerable number of local Y.M.C.A.’s.

Aquatics, indoor and out, the greater number
of city Y.M.C.A.’s having buildings with pools.

These education-recreation phases of the “Y”
program are regarded by the Associations as valu-
able in themselves and as contributory to the aims
of “developing Christian personality and building
a Christian society.”

Paid executive officers, activities directors, and
supervisory staff number 3,801. A large and
growing proportion of these are men with full
professional training.

The Y.M.C.A.’s seek both (a) to build a mem-
bership, a fellowship, that will assume responsi-
bility for self-leadership, and (b) to render as
extensive a community service in all of the phases
of program noted above as their facilities and the
available resources permit. They seek to conserve
the social values inherent in, or possible for,
privately-supported organizations. They aim, as a
matter of policy, to work cooperatively with other
societies and agencies, and to bring constructive
support to the growing program under public
auspices supported by taxation.

Among present trends in the education and rec-
reation activities of the Y.M.C.A. are: increased
emphasis upon health and physical fitness ; greatly
increased emphasis upon informal education and
social recreation for both sexes; enlargement of
the program of education for citizenship; develop-
ment of new standards in aquatic instruction and
camping practice; greater adaptation to the needs
and interests of industrial workers; decentraliza-
tion of activities and leadership to neighborhoods
and communities (in contrast with centralization
of all activities in an Association-operated build-
ing) ; increasing volume of cooperative planning.

As young Americans are being brought together
for military training, new branches of the “Y”
are being established in communities near by the
cantonments. Associations located in other towns
and cities frequented by service men on leave—
as also in centers of de-
fense industry -— are adapt-
ing their equipment and pro-
gram to the new demands
which being made upon them. It
is the purpose of the “Y”
in these army and navy and
industrial centers to help
the men maintain normal~
educational, recreational,
and community contacts.

What They Say About Recreation

“ HE RECREATION movement in America is one
Tof our richest resources. It is not only a
manifestation of our capacity for Finding

life in the face of pressing problems, but it is an
example of how our normal forces may be used
in times of emergency.”—Franklin D. Roosevelt.

“After the people have been fed, housed, and
clothed; when they have work and education and
religion—then what about their leisure? For it
is not by bread alone that a man lives, and whether
a nation lives or dies depends on its wise use of
leisure.”—From Board of Playground and Rec-
reation Commissioners, Los Angeles.

“Through recreation a person may find for
himself a satisfying place among his fellows. He
may cultivate the basic human virtues of courage,
justice, patience, tolerance and fairness. He may
learn to live happily among his fellows, to make
his contribution to the good of all and to feel he
is wanted and appreciated. These are basic needs
of the social animal. In playing together people
learn to live together and to be adjusted to the
ramihed and complex relationships which society
imposes upon them.”—George H jelte in The Ad-
ministration of Public Recreation.

“Let us constantly keep in mind that the power
of a society to reform itself never grew out of
institutions but out of inner determination result-
ing from initiative, character, and faith.”—Robert
Ulich in American Youth.

“Just as we are convinced that the task of the
immediate present is not one of war but of prepar—
edness for defense, we must recognize the need
for recreation on an equal footing. There must
not be any retrenchment of recreation, of music,
of drama or sports, or any of these community
morale building forces—for if there is such a re-
trenchment it will be responsible for weakening

our country just that much more for defense.”—
Plzilip L. Semen. PhD.

“All cultivated art is based upon the art of the
folk, which for sincerity of expression, directness
of statement, and spontaneity of utterance has
never been, and never can be, surpassed.”-——Cecil

Sharp.
680

“Our constitution guarantees everyone life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I am posi-
tive that those who drew up that document had in
mind the idea that people should always have the
right to enjoy themselves, and that no one should
ever be given the privilege of buying out . . . all
of the lands and waters, the forests and the moun-
tains, for his own private use, thus depriving the
rest of the people of their privilege of using

'them.”—Conrad Wirth in 1940 Year Book, Park

and Recreation Progress.

“I like to feel that after the present crisis our
playground program will continue to be a contrib-
uting factor to Americanism through development

of sounder minds and bodies for our children.”—
Joseph F. IlzIaley, Steubenville, Ohio.

“Have you considered the destruction wrought
by those who visit our parks and woods, and in
return for the beauty they have enjoyed, leave
behind broken branches, flowers torn up by- the
roots, and perhaps an unextinguished camp fire?
. . . It is clear that we shall render real service to
our country if we can give to the rising genera- -
tion a sense of responsibility, of obligation to

respect the rights and property of others.”—The
Garden Club of America. ‘

“The fact of the matter is that recreation in
and of itself is a good thing, and we are fortunate
that it is still legal to laugh. Our concern shall be
to keep fit to be free, but, above all, to keep fit to
be free and to have fun.”—Charles E. H endry.

“It is the duty of society to harness all its forces
and agencies, public and private, to do the job of 
recreation. It is fundamentally and to a very large
degree a public responsibility resting on the ,‘
shoulders of government on all levels, but particu-
larly on the community level, in the same place,
for the same reasons, and to an equally high
degree as the responsibilities for education, health -
and safety.”—G. Ott Romney.

“I cannot see any other way to build the foun-
dations of a democratic culture except by con-
structive educational systems which must include.
thorough-going use of leisure time.” -— E. C.
Lindeman.

. umbrellas, and um-

This Way to the Tropics!

8 THE THIRD month roars in
A like a lion and the cold
March winds blow, only

the inveterate winter sportsman fails to think
longineg of soft breezes in sunny southlands. In
these blustery days we need inspiration to tide us
over until March calms down to lamb-like mild-
ness, and what could be more fitting than a party
that transports us, if only in imagination and if
only for an evening, to a pleasant tropical clime?

To prepare for the party, dust off the metal
chairs and tables that were in the yard, on the
terrace, or in the
sunroom last sum-
mer; hunt up deck
chairs and gaily
striped umbrellas—-
these furnishings
will set the stage
for a trip to Miami
Beach, the Catalina

ll'ls Marc

We‘ll
ISlandS: BermUda’ For Fail

orWaikiki.(Friends . we'll |cm
will be glad to con- '
tribute additional
metal chairs and
tables, deck chairs,

Name:
'0 all"

brella tables.)

Palm tree cut-
outs (brown wrapping paper
for trunks, dark green for
leaves) on the walls contribute to the atmosphere.
With a little ingenuity, green paper and open
umbrellas will make effective palm trees. For
novelty, cut strips of “waves” from blue paper and
place them against a side wall.

Place the beach umbrellas and lounging chairs
with small tables beside them in a casual arrange-
ment about the party room. Some brightly colored
beach balls and rubber “water animals,” though
not necessary, make a definite contribution to the
atmosphere.

Awnings made of colored strips of paper hung
over frames on the inside of the windows will help
promote the outdoor illusion.

Make the southlands “sunnier” by placing yellow
cellophane over the lights or by using orange and

By MARION G. KRON

National Recreation Association

outside. So we've. been Told,

Bu'l' ‘l'oJ‘e. KO heal When-winds blow Cold,

Come. loll with us ’neatk “tropic. sum,
Ores: for like. beach and lazy ‘FLH’L.

lay same Cid-Miles "'.l3LL'l' don't" you 'FI’QT
om ‘Frowt our chairs we‘ll (163.

MIC. around Md u'l' and chall"
And even jut-(H7 Cit-OW 

 

This invitation is bound to arouse the
interest and curiosity of your friends

yellow bulbs. You may want to
have a mellow tropical moon for
atmosphere later in the evening.
A circular hole (covered with yellow cellophane)
in a backdrop hung across one end of the room
will provide a moon. Light it from below with a
bulb of low wattage placed behind the backdrop.
A similar effect can be obtained by placing a light
behind a barrel hoop covered with yellow cellophane.

Tropical Prizes

Leis or garlands of flowers are usually asso-
ciated with the trop-
ics. Leis made of
brightly colored
crepe paper would
make appropriate
party prizes. These
should be approxi-
mately thirty-fOUr
inches long. Use
crepe paper in strips
two inches wide.
Cut each strip into
points top and bot-
tom, almost to the
center line, making
them alternate
rather than exactly
opposite. Cut off
the proper length of an indi-
vidual lei, with an extra allow-
ance for gathering. Gather through the center on
the sewing machine, leaving long ends of thread
at either extremity. Twirl the lei to make it look
full and tie the ends of thread together.

The Guests Arrive

When guests arrive they are greeted by a sign
on the door: “This Way to the Tropics.” Upon
entering they find themselves in the Cave of the
\Ninds—a dimly lighted room decorated with ser-
pentines and streamers blowing from electric fans.

The four sides of the room are labeled “North,”
“South,” “East,” and “West.” If possible, have
guests enter from the “North”; in all events they
must exit through a door toward the “South.” In
the Cave of the Winds they are to leave coats,

681

682 THIS l/VAY TO THE TROPICS!

hats, and all other accouterments of winter, in
preparation for their tropical jaunt. (A lobby
makes a good Cave of the Winds.)

It will probably be necessary to arrange for
dressing rooms, decorated with palm tree cut-
outs; here guests may don any articles of their
beach clothing which they could not wear to the
party—beach sandals, broad-brimmed hats, robes,
sun glasses. (If this feature is undesirable, the
invitations might ask guests merely to dress for
hot weather in light summery clothes. There would
then be no‘ necessity for dressing rooms.)

The guests, in slacks, beach coats, play suits or
other summer apparel, are directed to the party
room by signs reading “To the Beach.”

Pre-Party Games

This is definitely not the kind of party to start
off with the proverbial “bang,” but the early ar-
rivals must have some way to amuse themselves
until all have assembled. Think of the promise in
the invitation, and plan something lazy for the
pre-party games. Accordingly, the newcomer
might find other early guests stretched out in
beach chairs under the “sun” and blowing soap
bubbles or making clothespin mannikins.

Bubble Blowing. To make a solution for soap
bubbles, till a fruit jar two-thirds full of water;
add hnely shaved castile soap, four tablespoons of
glycerine, and a teaspoon of sugar. Shake well,
strain through a cloth, pour back into the jar, and
let stand an hour or two.

Bubbles may be blown with clay pipes which
can be purchased in lots or with straws. For a
straw pipe, make four half-inch slits in one end
of a straw and spread the cut parts.

The small tables beside each chair now demon-
strate their usefulness. Cups of soap solution and
pipes are placed beside each guest. The players
may be competing in blowing the biggest bubble,
the smallest bubble, the prettiest bubble, the bub-
ble that travels the greatest distance or lasts the
longest. Certainly there is no more languorous
activity than bubble blowing!

Clothespin Mannikins. Some guests may be
amusing themselves with clothespins, scissors,
paste, bits of wool and colored cloth—materials
that have been placed on other small tables. The
object is to represent themselves as dressed for a
March evening in the frost-bitten northern coun-
tries. This is another contest that doesn’t take
much effort but that is a lot of fun.

The Party Begins

The chairs arranged around the room provide a
rough circle, so it is not necessary to rearrange
them for circle games.

Find the Leader. In this game a player who is
“It” is sent from the room. He returns to find
the players performing some motion (perhaps
nodding their heads). The leader, selected while
“It” was out of the room, slyly starts another
motion and all immediately imitate him. If “It”
finds which person is the leader, the two exchange
places.

Vocations. Each player takes a vocation, as does
the leader. The leader in the center of the circle
pantomimes working at his vocation and all of the
players work at theirs. When the leader shifts to
the trade of one of the players—as he frequently
does—that player takes the leader’s trade while the
others in the circle remain quiet. (As a variation '
they may pantomime the leader’s vocation.) It is
only when the leader returns to his own trade that
all present again pantomime their own. If the
leader catches a player in a mistake, the player
must change places with him.

Some vocations and pantomimes are: seam-
stress—sewing; artist—painting ; cook—kneading
dough; carpenter—hammering; lumberman—saw-
ing; stenographer—typing ; author—writing.

With Paper and Pencil

A Dog Bays at the Moon. It may be wise to
divide the players into several groups so this game
will not lag. Divide them as they are sitting around
the room, because it wouldn’t be fair to ask them
to move their chairs!

Paste the letters B, H, E, W, T, and'M on the
various sides of a block of wood. Show a sketch
of a dog baying at the moon to the players, ex-
plaining that the magic block will direct them in
drawing similar pictures.

Distribute pencils and paper to each player and
give each group a block with the above letters on it.

The players take turns in rolling the block on
the floor. No one can start his drawing until B—
representing body—comes up. When H is on top,
the head is drawn. The other letters represent ear,
whiskers, tail, and moon. Naturally the player
cannot add whiskers and ears until the head has
been drawn. A player may roll three times in
succession if he rolls letters that he can use. Other-
wise, after one throw, he must pass the block on.

THIS WAY TO THE TROPICS! 683

The group in which three players first complete
their pictures is the winner.

How's Your Memory? Spread on the fioor in the

middle of the room (or in the midst of each
group) twenty objects such as a thimble, shoe
horn, blotter, button, fountain pen. The players
have just sixty seconds to study the assortment
before it is removed.

Each person writes down as many of the objects
as he can remember in three minutes. The collec-
tion is again placed on the fioor, and the players
give themselves five points for each correct item.
A total of 90 is exceptional; 80, very good; 60,
good; 50, fair. However, those below 50 can
claim that they are merely following party direc-
tions .by being lazy!

A Question of Gender. This game may be based
on individual or team scores. If teams are used,
they may be composed of small groups as above,
or may consist of two teams—the guests on one
side of the room against those on the other side.

The players learn that the list to be given to
them contains only “masculine” words. They are
to find the feminine equivalent within a specified
length of time. The individual or team with the
least number of mistakes is the winner.

The list might contain the following words:

bull . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. cow chairman  chairwoman

rooster . . . . . . . . . . . . .. hen couturier . . . . .. couturiere

drake . . . . . . . . . . . . .. duck patriarch . . . . .. matriarch

fox . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. vixen aviator . . . . . . . . .. aviatrix

buck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. doe Pierrot . . . . . . .. Pierrette

stallion . . . . . . . . . . .. mare lord . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. lady

gander . . . . . . . . . . .. goose sultan . . . . . . . . . . .. sultana

tiger . . . . . . . . . . . .. tigress tsar . . . . . . . . . . . . .. tsarina

master . . . . . . . . .. mistress abbott . . . . . . . . . . .. abbess

masseur  masseuse duke . . . . . . . . . . .. duchess

A Matter of Intelligence. This game also may
be based on individual or group scoring. After
concentrating on providing the right answer, play-
ers will find a game which requires them to mark
down the wrong answer particularly disconcerting.
The statements are to be marked “True” or
“False” in reverse order. (If the statement is true,
the players write “False” and vice versa.) Here

are some examples :

1. The moon is made of green cheese. True

2. In the nursery rhyme the cow jumped over the moon.
False

3. In the same rhyme the cup ran away with the spoon.
True

4. Because it is south of the equator, the South Pole is
hot. True

5. It never snows in Texas. True

6. A plane travels faster than an automobile. False

7. Bananas are good to eat in Russia. False

8. Green apples aid digestion. True

9. The sun never sets at the North Pole. True

10. Coral is composed of the skeletons of animals. False

After scores have been totaled for this game,
collect the pencils and paper and put them away.
Whether the guests realize it or not, it is time for
them to get some exercise!

Active Games, Races, and Relays

Foolish, Facts. By now even the lazieSt tropical
visitor will want to stretch a bit—and here is the
game that will give him his exercise for the
evening.

Doubly confusing after the previous game (try
to group these together in planning the program)
is “Foolish Facts,” in which players make their
response by action.

A cardboard sign reading “Right” is hung at
one side of the room and another saying “Wrong”
is placed on the other side. The leader reads a
fact from this list. By going over to the proper
sign, the players signal whether the statement is
right or wrong.

After the players have chosen their sides (and
some will keep dashing from one end of the room
to the other as they change their minds) the leader
reads the answer—and the laugh is on those under
the wrong sign. The leader then reads another
fact and the game continues.

Here are a few “dubious” facts:

1. The left foot of right—handed persons tends to be
slightly larger than the right. Right. (For left-
handed individuals the reverse is generally true.)

2. Dinosaurs were all carniirorous creatures. Wrong.
(Some members of the dinosaur family were strict
vegetarians.)

'3. America contains approximately 95% of all the bath-
tubs in the world. Right. (This statement was issued
by the United States Chamber of Commerce.)

4. South of the equator all climbing vines twine from
right to left, but north of the equator they twine from
left to right. Right.

5. Brown eggs are less nutritious than white ones.
Wrong.

6. The custom of handshaking originated in ancient‘
times when it was necessary to show that one carried
no weapon in his hand. Right.

7. A pound weight and a half-pound weight dropped
off a roof at the same time will reach the ground
simultaneously. Right.

8. A camel can go without water for weeks. Wrong.
(The longest is five days.)

9. The only remaining wonder of the “Seven Wonders

684 THIS l/VAY TO THE TROPICS!

of the Ancient World” is the pyramids of Egypt.
\Vrong. (The Sphinx was also one of the seven.)

10. The bark of a dog is a deveIOpment of civilization.
Right. (\Vild dogs, wolves, and other members of
the canine famin yap and grunt, yelp and how], but
they never bark.)

Most of the guests will be exhausted after this
show of athletics and will be glad to sit down for
a quiet relay.

Lazy Relay. This “Lazy Relay” really lives up
to its name. Those on one side of the room may
compete in this game against those on the other.

Give each player a glass of lemonade and a
straw. At the signal, the head player on each team
starts drinking his lemonade through the straw.
When he has finished, he bends the straw over the
side of his glass and number two on his team
starts drinking. The side finished first wins the
race. (This relay would be particularly good for
a small party.)

Card Passing Relay. Two or more teams may
be used in this game. The first player on each
team receives four playing cards. At a signal, he
places a card between each of the five fingers of
the next player’s left hand. The team in which
the last player first receives the four cards is
proclaimed the winner.

Pin Race. This contest doesn’t require skill and
it provokes a lot of laughter. Cut a paper of pins
into strips, pull the pins from each strip, and
place the pins in small containers.

A bowl of pins and an empty strip is placed be-
side each player. On the signal everyone picks up
his strip and inserts the pins in their proper holes.

The hrst person with strip and pins intact is the
winner.

Shamrock Race. Even if this March party is
tropical in nature, we should not forget that
March contains a day set aside for St. Patrick,
the patron saint of Ireland. This game is in his
honor. Make shamrocks of heavy cardboard with
a small hole through each stem. Insert a length of
heavy string through the hole in a shamrock and
fasten the string to the rung of a chair at the
height of the hole in the shamrock from the Hoor.
Each player, on the signal, moves his shamrock
along the string by leaning it from him (stem rest-

ing on the floor) and working the string back and
forth.

Walking to Dublin. Here is another Irish game.
For this and the following game, individuals
should be selected to represent their teams.

Stretch a length of string across the floor. Give
the “traveler” a pair of opera glasses to aid him
in his trip to Dublin. He must place heels and
toes exactly on the string, guiding his steps by
looking through the large end of the glasses. If
he makes an error .or steadies himself by touching
the floor with his free foot, he must hand over the
opera glasses to the representative of another
team.

Slow Motion Race. Contestants line up at the
starting place with their backs to the goal, fifteen
feet away. At the signal they walk backward to—
ward the goal line. The object is to see who can
be the last to cross it. No player is allowed to
stop even for the fraction of a second, and each
must follow as direct a route as possible.

Pack a Picnic Supper

It would not be in keeping with the spirit of a
tropical party to have the guests gather around a
table for formal refreshments. Even buffet ser-
vice seems out of place. A “picnic supper,” on
the other hand, fits right in with the beach chairs
and umbrellas.

Refreshments might consist of assorted sand-
wiches, a cold drink, cupcakes. and fruit. If the
size of the party permits, pack individual picnic
boxes for the guests. (Slip the sandwiches into
waxed paper bags, wrap a piece of fruit and a
cupcake separately in waxed paper, and pour the
cold drink into a cardboard container.)

A portable phonograph has added to the enjoy—
ment of many a beach party. One might be used
appropriately at this party while the guests are
eating.

Sing a Round of Songs

After all have enjoyed the picnic box refresh—
ments, turn on the “moon” at the end of the room
and extinguish the other lights to set the atmos-
phere for the group singing that follows.

This portion of the party program may be in—
troduced by a game, if desired. Two or more
teams are necessary. The leader quotes a phrase
from a song and the players sing the following
line. The object is to see which team first recog-
nizes the selection and gives the correct reply.

These suggestions may be used:

1. Soft o’er the fountain
Ling’ring falls the southern moon

2. Now ’neath the silver moon
Ocean is glowing

(Continued on page 696)

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

MATE UR Scientists. New directory of 287
groups under the title “The Layman Scien—

J tist in Philadelphia,” by Dr. W. Stephen Thomas,
editor, Philosophical Society. Included are 32,000

1, persons, 72 places, 120 courses in 19 science fields.

Birds. “W ings at My Window,” Ada C. Goven.
Macmillan Company, New York, 198 pp. $2.50.
Story of a sick woman who found her way out
through an interest in birds.

Children's 11! usemns. On January 17th there
was a meeting of representatives from children’s
museums at the Brooklyn Children’s Museum.
One of the sections at this conference discussed
“The Contribution of Children’s Museums to Lei-
sure Time Activities.”

Clubs. The \Vestinghouse Electric Company in
1941 will aid 700 science clubs in 46 states for
21,000 science students of high school age. A
“science workshop” for youth, the first of its kind
in the country, will be built in New York City.
It is an outgrowth of the Student Science Labora-
tory at the New York World’s Fair. Equipment
will be provided for research by teen age students
who will originate their own experiments. The
American Institute of the City of New York pub-
lishes the Science Observer, a national monthly
magazine, and bulletins for members.

“Conservation Library,” twelve bulletins, four

of them available free, prepared by the U. S. Of-

. tice of Education, Washington. They suggest con-

servation excursions and visual and auditory ma—
terials available.

' “Desert IVild Flowers,” Edmund C. Jaeger.

r Stanford University Press, California, 1940. $3.50.
Result of twenty-five years of trekking. Describes
and illustrates 764 plants. A good companion for
desert travelers.

Electricity. “The Boy Electrician,” Alfred
Morgan. Lothrop, Lee and Shepard, New York,
403 pp. $2.50. “How to make it” for “boys” of
either sex.

Flower Gardens. The largest Chinese city out-
side of China is in San Francisco where 20,000
Chinese live in an area of 12 blocks. Laundries
and flower gardens on the roof are characteristic

1 it's Being Done in Nature Recreation
l

Chinatown scenes. A new housing project will
take advantage of such practices and will provide
for them through careful design and efficient
modern planning.

Forest. About 4,000 acres of virgin hemlock—
beech forest have been set aside south of Ludlow,
Pennsylvania, by the U. S. Forest Service for the
education and recreation of the public. It is the
largest primeval forest in the East. For further
information write Allegheny Forest Experiment
Station, Philadelphia.

Forests. “Living and Forest Lands.” Miscel—
laneous publication, 388, U. S. Department of
Agriculture, Washington, 1940, $.10. A guide for
study groups interested in social aspects.

Forests. “What Forests Give,” Martha B.
Bruere. U. S. Forest Service, Washington, 1940.
Includes recreation as well as other wealth. Dedi—
cated to boys and girls of the coming generations.

“Greenland Lies North,” William S. Carlson.
Macmillan Company, 306 pp. $3.00. The chapter
heading “Week-ending with Eskimos” suggests
the recreation flavor.

Herbs. Herb gardens may be seen at Westfield,
Mass; Colonial National Park, Va.; Historical
Park, Morristown, N. 1.; and at George Wash-

ington Birthplace National Monument, Wakefield,
Va.

History. “Coronado’s Quest,” discovery of the
Southwest, A. Grove Day. University of Cali-
fornia Press, 418 pp. $2.50. A narrative.

“Insects,” A Book for Beginners, James G.
Needham. Jaques Cattel Press, 129 pp. $1.50.
Excellent for young folks. The fact that Dr.
N eedham is the author guarantees the quality and
an easy style.

Literature Gem.

How dead the vegetable kingdom lies!
How dumb the tuneful!

—James Thompson, Scottish poet (1700-1748)
Whether or not this is true in your community
may depend on the Recreation Department.

“Microscopic World,” Frank Thone. Science
Service, Washington, 245 pp. $3.00. The truth in
picturesque language.

685

686 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

Mineralogy. “Jewels and Gems,” Lucile Saun-
ders McDonald. Crowell Publishing Company,
New York, 288 pp. $2.00. Popular, {with
anecdotes.

Nature Education on a state-Wide basis is being
planned for the State of Connecticut by the State
Board of Education, the State Forestry Depart-
ment, the State Board of Fisheries and Game and

the University of Connecticut.

National Parks. In the 162 Federal park areas
the government is waiving all entrance charges to
the uniformed men of the army and navy. This
step is based upon the belief that appreciation of
this natural heritage is of vital importance to those
who may some day be called upon to defend our

country.

“Nature Handbook for Sportsmen and Conser-
vationists,” Horace L. Poole, 1954 Ellis Street,

Dubuque, Iowa. $.30.

Oak Park, Illinois. The Playground Board re-
ports the following nature projects which we
summarize: child-raised flowers for hospitals, a
child-built bird sanctuary with bird service sta-
tions, summer greenhouses for preschool play-
ground groups, tours to the Forest Preserve.
These are surely steps in the right direction.

Park Naturalists. Through the efforts of the
Conservation Department of the State of Tennes—
see, the Tennessee Recreation Association was
recently organized. In the Nature Section at the
last conference, it was voted to recommend the
employment of naturalists in natural park areas.

North Carolina had a paid naturalist in one of
its state parks for the first time last summer.
South Carolina has plans for several naturalists
in its state parks for next summer. The state parks
0 of Florida are experimenting with conducted tours
through state parks in a state-operated bus. This
project has developed as an effort to encourage
people to get out of their own cars to see the in-
teresting parts of the parks.

Peppermint. Does mint grow in your neighbor-
hood? It may be recognized by its square stem
as well as odor. The mint oil is obtained by dis-
tilling. If interested in chemurgy write National
Farm Chemurgic Council, 50 W est Broad Street,

Columbus, Ohio.

Photography. “Under Sea with Helmet and
Camera,” A. F. duPont. Dodd, Mead and Com—
pany, New York, 87 pp. $2.50. Interesting ex-
periences.

Planetarium. “Pinpoint Planetarium,” Armand
N. Spitz. Henry Holt, New York, 86 pp. 1940.
$2.00. How to make a miniature planetarium
with scissors, paste and a pin.

“Science and Everyday Life,” J. B. S. Haldane.
Macmillan Company, 284 pp. $2.00. Seventy
popular newspaper articles by a British scientist
who makes them readable. Includes such subjects
as Nature’s Speed Limits and Why Marriage Is
a Lottery.

Scientists. In 1939 there were 41,912 U. S.
government scientists. Scientists arrange facts in
systematic order. There were 1,335 chemists,
1,015 entomologists and plant husbandmen, 780
mathematicians, 640 naturalists and ecologists
most of whom work outdoors, and 445 science
writers.

S err. “The Wonder of Life,” Dr. M. I. Levine.
Simon and Schuster, New York, $1.75. Biologi-
cal story for children past ten.

“Shrubs in the Garden and Their Legends,”
Vernon Quinn. Stokes Publishing Company,
New York, 308 pp. $2.50. Should make 'shrubs
more interesting.

State Bird and Tree. Massachusetts and Con-
necticut are the only states not having officially
named state birds. About a dozen states have no
state tree. The Massachusetts Audubon Society is
making an effort to have every one interested vote

for his preference. The society will then present -

a bill for the most popular bird and tree to the
General Court for official action.

Town Forests. The first regional town forest
conference was held at Springfield, Mass., last
fall. Fourteen states were represented. Resolu—
tions included the suggestion that a community
forest should grow out of local interest and meet
local needs. Suitable tax delinquent land may be
used to create a new community forest.

Training C onrses. The conservation depart—
ment of the State of Michigan conducts each
year a two—day training conference for the con—
servation chairmen of the Federated Garden
Clubs of the state. At the 1940 meeting held at
Petosky, Michigan, in October, it was decided to
assist the state parks in developing naturalist
programs.

Plans are now being formulated for a short two

weeks’ training course for 'local nature leaders to
be held next spring at the Otter Creek Recrea-

(Continued on page 697)

John Bradford

A Leader in Rural Recreation

F HIS OWN accord
John Bradford came
to the National Rec-

reation Association and an—
nounced that he had decided
he wanted to spend his
years working within the
Association. For nearly
twenty years in the Asso-
ciation he did what he
- wanted most in all the world
to do. He was deadly in
earnest about the work. All
of his superb energy was
mobilized. He carried a note
4 of triumph. Always he was
a pioneer.

For several years he served
effectively as a district field
worker. When the Associa-
tion established its rural recreation program, John
Bradford was asked to assume the leadership and
' did so with his usual enthusiasm. All that he had

he gave for the following thirteen years to this
task. He liked rural people and rural people liked
him. He made many, many friends. He helped
rural leaders to understand the real meaning of
recreation. He carried with him the spirit of joy
and fellowship. He had great loyalty to the Na-
tional Recreation Association. He believed in it.
Always he worked through it to build a non—insti—
tutional movement that would abide. He did not
try to build new rural organizations. Rather he
helped leaders already in the open country to gain
the skills and the knowledge and develop the
power to serve as volunteers without pay in giving
recreation leadership in the farm areas. Leaders
be trained continued working together for years
after the institutes, and often met together in-
formally to perfect their work.

John Bradford had little publicity for himself.
Much of his work was done under the Extension
Division of the Department of Agriculture. He

 

worked closely with the

* state agricultural depart-
ments, as well as with nu-
merous other public and pri-
vate rural agencies.

His leadership was so
outstanding that rural areas
were willing to schedule his
institutes more than two
years in advance! A two-
year limit had to be placed
on the institutes accepted
for him and for his asso-
ciates.

Under his guidance more
than 76,000 persons had
been given institute train-
ing in recreation leadership
so that as volunteers they
could serve in their own rural

neighborhoods. Several whom he had trained had
themselves trained others. Many attended his
institutes for a series of years.

Of course, it was never possible to separate the
Work of Mr. Bradford and Mrs. Bradford. They
worked together as one person. They traveled
continuously together from state to state. They
worked in nearly every state in the Union. The
whole United States was their home and they
kept no home in any one city. They sought noth-
ing for themselves. Rural life in America today
is different because of the ability, the devotion,
the earnestness, the genius with which John Brad—
ford and his wife served these many years.

Few men have rendered more outstanding ser-
vice to their generation than John Bradford. He
lived in modern times much the same type of life
lived by the traveling bishop of old, except that he
used trains and autos instead of riding horseback.
His message was more abundant life, and he him-
self lived out his message.

When John Bradford died on Sunday, Decem-
her 8, 1940, after a brief illness, he left a vacant
place that no one else could fill.

687

How Does Your Garden Grow?

February Reminders

EGIN T0 DRAW up defi—
B nite plans for demon-

stration, gI‘OUp, tract
and home garden projects.

Estimate seed require-
ments and order seeds from

a reliable firm. Several
companies put up very satisfactory penny packets
of seed for children.

Take up the study of plant parts and their fUnc-
tions — roots, stems, leaves, flowers, and fruits.
Point out parts of vegetable plants which are used

for food.

Identify and correctly label the shrubs and trees
in a particular area.

Learn a few interesting facts about rocks, soils
and minerals.

Carry on map study showing the native habitat
of different plants, shrubs, and trees.

Prepare a class book of pictures from maga-
zines and catalogs showing how homes may be at-
tractively landscaped.

Plan to make up a list of sources where tech-
nical garden information can be secured.

All garden project applications and enrollments
along with the small garden fee should be turned
in to the garden instructor before the end of the
month.

Make up and letter labels for garden plants,
trees and shrubs.

Activities for March

Study methods of soil preparation and fertiliza-
tion of the soil. Include soil erosion study.

Plan to have a soil analysis made by the State
AgricultUral College or some experienced person
before making applications of commercial fer-
tilizers.

Demonstrate methods of
planting seeds. A garden plot
may be laid out on the floor
to accomplish this.

Cut branches of forsythia,
pussy willow, Japanese

688

Some timely reminders tor garden
clubs and other groups promoting
gardening in their communities

By JOHN CAMPBELL
National Recreation Association

During the current year Recreation will
publish periodically practical hints and
garden "reminders" which. it is hopedI
will be of assistance to garden clubs
and similar groups. We shall be glad to

have your suggestions as to how this pro-
posed column can be made more helpful.

quince, red bud, mock
orange and other early
spring shrubs which may
be forced for indoor bou-
quets.

Start hotbeds or flats in
the house for early seed-
lings. A few of the things
that might be started now
are: Annual flowcrs—verbenas, ageratum, pe—
tunia, dianthus, lobelia, etc.

V egetablesmpepper, tomato, eggplant, early
cabbage and cauliflower, broccoli, head lettuce.

Learn the names and uses of garden tools. Have
these tools on hand so they may be closely in-
spected by club members.

Consider methods of propagation, placing most
stress on seeds, cuttings, and divisions.

Conduct seed testing experiments and make
germination counts.

Take up transplanting, thinning, cultivating and
staking practices. These can be reviewed again in

the field.

Ask the cooperation of local merchants in set-
ting up garden exhibits in store windows.

Planting in April

Watch the season and plan your plantings ac-
cordingly. If it seems to be particularly wet and
cold, withhold plantings outdoors, for nothing is
gained by hurrying a season of this type.

If the soil is workable late this month, radishes,
carrots, beets, kohlrabi, onion sets, peas, parsley,
parsnips, spinach and other early season vegetables
may 'be planted.

With the opening of tree buds, some hardy
annual flowers such as larkspur, alyssum, calen- "
dula, California poppy, candytuft and others may
be seeded outdoors. Never work in soils while

they are wet.

As soon as the weather
settles, plants such as cab-
bage, broccoli, and lettuce,
which have been sufficiently '
hardened off may be trans-
planted outdoors.

(Continued on page 698)

_‘ World at Play

Puppet and Marionette
Theater in New York

By DECEMBER 21, 1940, the re-
cently formed troupe of New
York City’s Park Department
Puppeteers had given ten of a
series of twenty-seven perform-
ances of “Jack and the Bean
Stalk.” The ten shows were given
to the'playground children at des-
ignated locations in the boroughs
of Manhattan and Brooklyn as
part of the Christmas season’s
recreation program. Each of the
productions, consisting of three acts and lasting
approximately fifty minutes, was produced and
staged with precision and skill. Parents as well as
children were captivated by the shows and joined
the children in asking for additional performances.

AT FORTY 0f the cen-
ters sponsored by the
Playground and Rec-
reation Department of
Los Angeles, California, men holding draft regis-
tration cards have been invited to join free phy-
sical conditioning groups designed to build up
their health, strength, and stamina. The city’s
recreation directors have worked out a special
program for the benefit of those who join the new
groups in which exercises, marching, and drills
will be supplemented by games, stunts, sports, and
possibly hiking and other out-of-door activities to
add recreation and good fellowship.

A “Fitness and Fun”
Drive Conducted

FOR THEIR special na-
tional proect this year,
the Camp Fire Girls
have chosen to stress
an appreciation and enrichment of the cultural
treasures of the world. Called “Treasure Trails,”
this project deals with the trails of creative art
which converge on America from all corners of
the world, as well. as those trails leading into the
future which every girl may help to blaze. At a

Treasure Trails for
Camp Fire Girls

 

time when destructive forces are rampant, the
Camp Fire Girls feel it is more important than
ever to preserverand stimulate the arts which have
universal values. The project accordingly is con-
cerned with a constructive effort to protect and
increase our cultural treasures in the fields of
poetry, music, painting, sculpture, drama, and the
dance. Exploring America’s cultural heritage by
investigating the art of an ancestor’s native land,
studying the various national inHuences coloring
the art of one’s home town, or examining the art
of a neighbor country——-these are some of the
trails the Camp Fire Girls will follow in 1941.

IN MINNEAPOLIS a lis—
cally-minded alderman
urged parking meters
for boulevards and
lakesides favored by automobile spooners. City
fathers spurned the plan, and Park Superintend-
ent C. A. Bossen cried: “We have to encourage
romance, not make it an expensive luxury!”—
From Time magazine.

Where Romance Is
Encouraged !

AT THE close of the
official bicycling sea-
son in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, the Muni
Bike and Hike Clubs held a hobby show on De-
cember 2, 1940. This made it possible for each
member of the clubs to see what the other mem-

689

Bikers and Hikers
of Milwaukee

690 WORLD AT PLA Y

    

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever

madel Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
trealed steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CU.

4b|0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

 
  
 
  
 
  
     
   

bers enjoy doing in their free time. The Muni
Bike Club and the Muni Hike Club conducted by
the Department of Municipal Recreation of the
Milwaukee Public Schools combine to publish each
month a mimeographed bulletin entitled M um'

H iker-B iker.

Outdoor Fun at Lake Carl Blackwell—The
Lake Carl Blackwell area in Northern Oklahoma,
eight miles west of Stillwater, is a unique recrea-
tion center comprising 21,000 acres of water sur-
face, rolling grassland, wooded hills, and rocky
canyons. Nearly a square mile of land is devoted
solely to recreational uses, and most of the 3,300
acre lake surface will be available for recreation.
There are eighteen overnight cabins for campers
on the lake shore and a grOUp camp of twelve
cabins which provides places for outings for
groups of from 25 to I 50 children or adults.
Shady sites with rustic tables and fireplaces are
reserved for picnicking. Long open reaches of
water, combined with several branches, make the
lake one of the few good boating locations in
Oklahoma. Private boats of various types may
be rented at low rates. The Lake Carl Blackwell

Cooperative Land Use Area, of which the lake
and its recreational opportunities are a part, is a
tract managed by the Oklahoma Agricultural Ex-
periment Station, Oklahoma A. 8: M. College,
under agreement with the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service.

“Fees and Charges for Public Recreation”—
From the Government Printing Office, Washing-
ton, D. C., copies are still available at forty cents
each of the important study made by the National
Park Service entitled “Fees and Charges for Pub-
lic Recreation—A Study of Policies and Practices.”

Meet-a-Body Club Ten Years of Age—The
Cincinnati, Ohio, Meet—a-Body Club for those who
want to increase their social contacts has now
been in operation for ten years, according to the
report of the Public Recreation Commission for
1939. The Club has had one social event each
week including visits to other cities, week-end
trips to parks within a hundred miles of Cincin-
nati, and visits to practically every place of in-
terest locally within easy bus or train distance. In
addition, hobby groups such as music, drama, and
dancing have been encouraged. During 1939 the
Club presented a minstrel show and a musical skit

which were very successful.

The Nation’s Children—The “Annual Report
on the Nation’s Children” appeared in the Janu-
ary, 1941, issue of Parents’ Magazine. In this
number the United States Commissioner of Edu-
cation, John W. Studebaker, Surgeon General
Thomas Parran, and Katharine F. Lenroot, Chief
of the United States Children’s Bureau, have
summarized the progress in child health and child
welfare for the preceding twelve months and re-
ported on plans for vocational education in rela-
tion to the national defense program.

Although almost every other important aspect
of our national life is subject to periodic examina-
tion and analysis, George Hecht, President of
Parents’ Institute, Inc., points out, the state of our
most vital national resource—the nation’s chil-
dren—has never been annually surveyed for those
most vitally interested—their parents. “It is im-
portant,” Mr. Hecht continues, “to stress the fact
that no nation is prepared to defend its future
unless it can point with pride to the provision it
makes for the welfare, happiness, and education

of its children.”
Copies of this issue of Parents’ Magazine may

-.—_

AN EASTER SEAL SALE 691

An Easter Seal Sale

HE NATIONAL SOCIETY for Crippled Children
will conduct its eighth annual seal sale March

21 to April 13, 1941.
There is a story behind this announcement. In
1921 Edgar F. Allen founded the International

Society for Crippled Children which at first was

composed entirely of organizations within the
United States and Canada. Later other nations
began to afiiliate with it, and in 1939 it became
necessary to organize a National Society for Crip—
pled Children to represent the United States and
to afiiliate with the international organization. To
avoid confusion, the latter is now known as the In—
ternational Association for the Welfare of Cripples.

To finance the program of the National Society
and its affiliated state organizations, in 1934 a seal
was devised for sale. The next year it was de—
cided to associate the seal with the idea of Easter
and the dawn of new hope. Now, in 1941, the
Easter seal has become traditional, and the idea
has spread from Coast to Coast. Further informa—
tion regarding the seals may be secured from The

Crippled Child, published in Elyria, Ohio.

be secured from the Parents’ Institute, Inc., 52
Vanderbilt Avenue, New York City, at 25 cents

a copy.

Recreation for Canadian Flyers—The Y.M.
CA. has worked out a comprehensive play pro-
gram for the members of the Royal Canadian Air
Force. A report of one week’s leisure activities
by the Canadian fiyers includes officers’ softball,
ping-pong tournaments, boxing and wrestling
training, group singing and motion pictures,
soccer games, tennis tournaments, cribbage, chal—
lenge track relays at 440 and 880 distances, bingo
tournament, checkers and chess, wrestling show,
bridge and euchre. The general sports program
for Saturday morning offered volleyball, boxing,
softball, soccer, wrestling, horseshoes, tug—o—war,
track and field and tennis.

Eighth National Folk FestivalmThe eighth
National Folk Festival, sponsored by the Wash—
ington Post Folk Festival Association, will be held
May I, 2, and 3, 1941, at Constitution Hall in
Washington. There will be two divisions. The
first will include the singing and playing of tra-
ditional folk music, ballads, folk songs, sea chan—
teys, river songs, Indian songs, cowboy ballads,

—

Mitchell Fold-O-Leg Tables

Attractive ap-
pearance yet "‘
sturdy because of ‘
tubular steel legs.
Easy to handle
and siore.Greaier
comfort and seat-
ing capacity.
Serve every table
need—low in cost.
Write for deal-

er's name.

  

Mitchell Products include Playground and Swim-
ming Pool Equipment. Dairy Barn Equipment
and Folding Stages for Music Groups.

MITCHELL MFG. C0.

3034 w. ronasr HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN
_ SINCE 1896 —

work songs and spirituals. There will also be per—
formances on the fiddle, dulcimer, banjo, guitar
and harmonica, as well as' instrumental presenta-
tions by groups. Second, compositions, choral and
individual, based on American folk music will be
rendered. There will be a handicraft exhibit in
connection with the Festival.

Sarah Gertrude Knott, founder and director of
the Folk Festival, will be glad to hear from any
groups wishing‘to participate in the Festival or
desirous of securing further information about it.
Miss Knott may be addressed at 101 Munsey
Building, 1329 E Street, Northwest, Washington.

National Boys and Girls Week—National
Boys and Girls Week will be celebrated this year
from April 26th through May 3rd. The following
designations for the various days have been made:
April 26th, Recognition Day; April 27th, the Day
in Churches; April 28th, the Day in Schools;
April 29th, Vocational Day; April 30th, Health
and Safety Day; May Ist, Citizenship Day; May
2nd, a Day in Entertainment and Athletics; and
May 3rd, a Day Out of Doors and Evening at
Home. Information and material helpful in cele-'
brating the week may be secured from the Na—
tional Boys and Girls Week Committee, 35 East
VVacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois. '

Safety Education Association Meets—New
deveIOpments in safety education, driver educa—
tion, and school liability will be discussed at the
Second Annual Conference and Luncheon of the
Safety Education Association which will be held
on February 26 at the Ritz Carlton Hotel at At—
lantic City in connection with the annual conven-

692 I/VORLD A T PLA Y

Santa .
A.i“tt*1“.i;“¢

(A Journal of Ideas

and Projects for the School as ct. . .

CHARACTER and CITIZENSHIP
LABORATORY in which

4:

O
«1-
a)
III-4
as
.i «a _|
I2 in.

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,

Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics, As-

sembly, Financing Activities, and Social Functions

make democratic settings and life situations typical

of the American way of living and working together.

Subscription Price

t$2130

tion of the American Association of School Ad-
ministrators. The program will open at 9 :30 A. M.
under the chairmanship of Dr. Herbert  Stack,
director of the Center for Safety Education at
New York University, from whom further infor-
mation may be secured.

New Play Areas for Dubuque—Two proj-
ects long sought for by the citizens of Dubuque,
Iowa, became realities in November, 1940, when
the City Council meeting in special session passed
a resolution authorizing the purchase of the Bush
property for park and recreatiOnal purposes and
designating the property as a memorial of two of
Dubuque’s prominent citizens—the late William
B. Allison, United States Senator, and David B.
Henderson, at one time Speaker of the House of
Representatives. The tract, which includes a piece
of property purchased twenty-five years ago by
the city, now includes about five and a half acres.
This property is the second to be secured within
a period of six months, for in July the Depart-
ment of Recreation purchased fourteen acres in
the south end of the city for another major play-
ground. This will constitute the city’s third ma-

SCHOOL HCTIUITIES

1515 LHNE STREET

TOPEKH. KHNSQS

 

jor playground for all year-round purposes,
Comiskey Field having been purchased in 1928
for $28,500.

Detroit Goes Indoors to Play—More than
one hundred play and hobby centers have been
opened by the Detroit Department of Recreation
for the fall and winter season. The facilities of
fifty—nine schools, staffed by 265 trained leaders
and WPA assistants, are being used to supple-
ment regular community centers. Branch libraries,
church and settlement houses, hospitals and
orphanages will share in the city-wide recreation
program. Three cooperative hobby centers for

'adults provide classes in physical activities, crea-

tive work, hobby groups, and social recreation.
Special daytime classes are planned for mothers
whose children are in school. Recreation programs
in the schools include children, high school youth,
and adults. Activity begins immediately after
school hours and continues until 10 P. M. '

C. J. Atkinson Memorial—The Harlem Cen-
ter of the Children’s Aid Society of New York
opened on the first of May. As a memorial to C.

MRS. JOHN M. GLENN - 693

Mrs. John M. Glenn

 

} ERY MANY PERSONS have contributed to the

building up of the National Recreation As-
sociation. One of the early friends who stood by
through the years was Mrs. John M. Glenn, who
died in New York City on November 3, 1940. In
her own experience she had seen the part which
recreation plays in building gracious and perma-
nently satisfying living. Few persons possess such
riches of inner resources for living as she had, and
it was only natural that she should understand and
support the national recreation movement.

For nearly thirty-five years she was interested
nationally and locally. From 1908 to 1912 She
served as a member of the Board of Directors of
the National Recreation Association.

Because of her sympathetic support better work
was done by the Association. Mrs. Glenn’s deep
religious faith gave her a steadfastness, a courage,
a long time view which brought strength to those
who served with her.

J. Atkinson one of the pioneers in Boys’ Club
I‘. work in the United States and Canada whose
l. work inspired his Rotary associates to found the
 Boys’ Welfare Association) the Rotary Club of
New York and the Boys’ Welfare Association
contributed $11,400 to equip the physical educa-
.‘ tion division and the auditorium of the new center.

 

in Praise-Winning Use All Over the World

LOUDEN playground equipment is honor-

built from only highest grade materials
by master craftsmen; it is designed by experi-
enced engineers who know what playground
equipment mm: be; it is backed by the 72-
year-old reputation for quality manufactur-
ing and fair-dealing behind the J. E. Porter
Corporation. And yet—it costs the least be-
cause it outwears ordinary equipment by far.

Write for Our Catalog
Address: Dept. [(-1

11
THE 1. E. PORTER CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

OTTAWA 1|:

 

Manufacturers of the famous "Louden." "Chicago" and “Spaiding”
lines of playground. gymnasium and swimming pool equipment

Building Cooperation in
Education-Recreation

(Continued from page 642)

Human Needs, and has worked with the Chil-
dren’s Bureau Group Work Reporting Project.
Probably the best value has come through having
an easy avenue of communication where any
agency can present a particular problem or where
a new plan of work can be offered for discussion.
\Ve have tried first to get an understanding of
what each agency was doing and its essential ap-
proach to the field. In a series of meetings the
history and basic philosophy of each organization
was presented by the executive to show how this
philosophy was refiected in the present program,
and what changes were being made‘to meet pres—
ent—day needs under very greatly changed eco-
nomic conditions. Out of this we found common
problems which were discussed in detail: prob-
lems of support, problems of programs in local
areas, leadership training and the like.

Studies, both local and national, which showed
areas of need or where the findings were signifi—
cant in showing trends or changes in emphasis

694 THE ENGLISH VILLAGE AS A GENUINE EDUCATION CENTER

have been considered. The findings of the recent
Regents Inquiry, the American Youth Commis—
sion, the Policy Committee of the National Edu-
cation Association, and the White House Confer-
ence have been evaluated and considered in their
bearings to program and national strategy.

\Ve have considered the needs of rural youth, a
field in which the government agencies have made
the notable contribution. Our concern was how
to do what we could to interpret the government
program, to 'work with it and to make a connec-
tion between work in cities which holds most of
the attention of the private agencies and the rural
work. '

Many of the agencies represented by the Coun-
cil work closely with the governmental agencies
and turn to them constantly for help. The park
and forest areas have been used by many of the
local groups of the agencies represented here for
camping and hiking. Close relationships have ex-
isted between the local units of national agencies
and local N Y A and CCC groups.

Our concern is that the Council may do its part
in furthering interpretation and understanding,
and that through cooperation resources should be
used to the best possible advantage. If this avenue
of cooperation has value for the private agencies
it should be useful also to the public agencies.
There is a value in knowing what agencies in re-
lated fields are doing, and the sharing of informa-
tion about local situations is made easier. Co-
operation is not always simple, but it is more likely
to occur where there is first-hand acquaintance,
understanding and respect. We have differed
from one another, sometimes in philosophy, some—
times in method, and sometimes in attitude to-
ward current issues, but we have respected each
other’s right to differ and we have been willing to
subordinate our differences if there was a job to
be done.

That is the spirit with which we have opened
this meeting and we welcome the opportunity to
meet with you. We hope we may know each other
better and may come to frank and fruitful dis—
cussion of the major jobs to be done by all of us
together in the field of recreation and leisure life.
\Ne hope, too, that this cooperation may be re—
flected in the life of every city and country neigh—
borhood in which any of us are at work. The end
results of any program or any governmental plan
lie in the everyday lives of individuals in coun-
try and city neighborhoods. All of us are com-
mitted to making that life better, richer, and fuller.

The English Village as a

Genuine Education Center

NINE YEARS AGO the present Secretary for Edu—
cation for Cambridgeshire inaugurated the
first of the Village Colleges. The fourth, and
most recent, was completed at Impington this year,
beginning work shortly after the outbreak of war.

The Colleges attempt to meet educational and
cultural needs of modern rural life, to preserve the
village individuality which cheap transport facili-
ties and cheap commercialized entertainment tend
to destroy. The aim is to form a community cen-
ter which encourages village genius within the
rural area itself and to provide that combination
of intellectual training with corporate life and
recreation which is characteristic of a University
education.

Since this idea should be introduced in child-
hood, a portion of the College building has been
planned as a Senior School catering for the vil-
lage group. Besides being a Senior School, it takes
care of needs of the adult population of the group
of villages, providing adult evening instruction
and setting up facilities for education and recrea-
tion of adults.

At Impington, three hundred children attend
the Village College. Those living too far to walk
or cycle are brought free of charge in buses;
those living too far to go home for lunch are pro-
vided a two-course meal at threepence a head. The
grounds cover twelve acres; the classrooms are
bright, airy and colorful. In the laboratory, rural
science, biology, and (in the evening) agricul-
ture are studied. The Hall, which is the heart of
the College, used by day for school assembly and
singing lessons, is also a theater, cinema, concert
hall, lecture theater, palais de dance and (until the
new gymnasium wing is completed) the gym-
nasium for the nine villages. It is large enough
for an audience of four hundred people.

In winter, two hours after the children leave
school, evening activities begin. There is a can-
teen and a Common Room, beautifully decorated,
where students may visit. Buses bring students -
for threepence, irrespective of distance (balance '
paid by authority and school funds). Many do
not attend for instruction, but for recreation. For
a small fee one may join the Institute, which gives
access to game rooms for billiards, table tennis, ‘
darts, cards. Physical training is popular. Other
subjects are needlework, woodwork, metalwork, .

i—p—-——

RECREATION FOR THE ARMY 695

cookery, choral and orchestral classes, drama,
public speaking. From the group of nine small
villages, 440 are enrolled and the average attend-
ance is 400 a week. A Student Council, elected
from these, is responsible for control of much of
the social and educational activity of the College.

Despite the war, restrictions on transport and
materials, and storms last year, this work went on
with enthusiasm. Now that air-raid alarms are
almost a nightly occurrence in Eastern England,
it is doubtful whether the evening work can con-
tinue. But in a world at war, the staiT and stu-
dents see in its cultural work, its democratic ad-
ministration, and its free social life, a stronghold
for that spirit with which Britain is challenging
the powers of darkness that threaten the world.
Condensed from Christian Science Monitor, July

30, 1940.

Recreation tor the Army

(Continued from page 664)

Army Motion Picture Section. Management of
Army Motion Picture Service within continental
United States and Alaska.

Decorations Section. Administrative duties per-
taining to awarding and distribution of decorations.

Civilian Contact Section. Interviewing of visit-
ors; preparation of material for distribution
through appropriate agencies; camp and organi—
zation newspapers and publications.

The Army has accepted the responsibility for
looking after the recreation and entertainment
program for the soldier within the limits of the
various posts, camps and stations. Buildings to
house post exchanges, service clubs, theaters and
libraries are being constructed as rapidly as pos-
sible. Field houses for indoor athletic contests also
are contemplated.

Funds have been appropriated to equip these
facilities, to buy athletic equipment and to pur-
chase books for libraries. Hostesses are being
employed to direct social activities for the soldier
on the posts and qualified librarians will aid him
in obtaining books and reading matter. The Army
Motion Picture Service, a going business of two
decades operated without expense to the govern-
ment, is being expanded to meet new demands im-
posed by the accelerating national defense move-
ment.

Many commanders, however, are not awaiting
completion of the various buildings and the dis-

 

PLAY SAFE

WITH

SAFEBAT

PREVENT ACCIDENTS WITH THIS

RUBBER COVERED
SOFTBALL BAT

. Durable .

Write for Information

SAFEBAT COMPANY, Castile, New _York

. POpular

. Noiseless .

Safe .

 

tribution of equipment to inaugurate a recreation
program for their units. With the means at hand
and the aid of near-by cities and towns, they have
embarked on modest but sound programs which
may be enlarged when conditions warrant.

There are many civilian agencies that are
anxious and willing to do their part in assisting
with the welfare program for the soldier. These
organizations can render great assistance in pro-
viding recreation facilities for enlisted men in
towns and cities near which large bodies of tr00ps
are concentrated.

Many communities already have formed groups
to set up recreation centers within their boundar-
ies and to provide wholesome diversions for the
soldier when he comes to town. The War Depart—
ment recently named a civilian committee to as-
sist in this work and to serve as a liaison agency
with local groups interested in recreation and en-
tertainment for troops.

Creation of a high morale in the Army rests, in
the hnal analysis, on the commanders of the vari-
ous units. The Adjutant General’s Oflice is seek-
ing to coordinate activities that will assist the
commanders in developing their organizations into

(Continued on page 696)

From the Womans Press . . .

PARTIES fur YDUNG AMERICANS

Dorothy Gladys Spicer
$l .00

Eighteen gay party programs arranged according to the

calendar year and based on a seasonal or patriotic

theme. The parties are intended for young Americans

everywhere—boys and girls in school, at home, in

church or community groups. Each party is complete

from invitation to things to do and things to eat, with
recipes included.

600 Lexington Avenue New York. N. Y.

 

696

IN HONOR OF EDI/VARD L. BURCHARD

A
5 MONTHS9
TRIAL
0FFEB

. . . your opportunity

your name, address, and a dollar bill,
of the most stimulating and helpful
school magazines. 5 months’ trial
offer of the

Junior Arts and Activities
magazine for only



. . . our opportunity

to prove to you the reason teachers
are turning to this new type of crea-
tive schoolwork and methods. Un-
equalled in the amount of usable proj-
ect material in each issue. If not en-
tirely satisfied with first copy—your
money will be refunded. Mail today,
really to become acquainted with one

and receive the next five issues of

Junior Arts & Activities

DEPT. R

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

 

In Honor of Edward L. Burchard

HE JANUARY, 1941, issue of the “Community

Recreation Bulletin,” published by the Chicago
Recreation Commission, is dedicated to Edward
L. Burchard who has resigned as executive secre-
tary of the Recreation Commission, a position
which he held for six years.

For fifty years Mr. Burchard has served in
social, educational and civic welfare fields. From
the time he came in 1891, a young Beloit College
graduate, to Hull House, he has served many or—
ganizations and interests, among them the W orld’s
Columbian Exposition, the Field Museum, the
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, the
Library of Congress, the Chicago School of Civics
and Philanthropy, the Community Center Move-
ment, Chicago Youth Week, the Superintendent
of Schools Advisory Council, the Education Club,
and the Century of Progress Exposition.

During the coming year Mr. Burchard will
serve as consultant to the Recreation Commission.

Recreation for the Army
(Continued from page 695)
efficient, disciplined and high-spirited units, to see

that equipment and facilities are provided for the
benefit of the field forces, and to aid commanders
in the solution of their morale problems. The
principles on which the program is based have
been tested and proved sound.

This Way to the Tropics!

(Continued from page 684)
3. I dream of Jeannie with the light brown hair
Borne like a vapor on the summer air

4. There's a long, long trail a-winding
Into the land of my dreams

5. Sweet and low, sweet and low,
Wind of the western sea

6. Once in the dear, dead days beyond recall
When on the world the mists began to fall

The selections are all familiar ones, for this
game is not meant to test knowledge. The indi-
vidual team or all of the teams might sing each
song through after the correct response has been
given. Before long the guests will be rambling
from one old song to another, and even the most
realistic person will find it easy to imagine himself
at a beach party winding Up the evening with a
round of songs.

The perfect concluding song, of course, is
Aloha Oe. Then, when the final strains have died

[MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 697

Second Annual Contest tor
Recreation Literature

N ANNOUNCING its second annual Joseph Lee
Memorial Contest for Recreation Literature,
the Society of Recreation \Norkers of America
states that this year a plaque and certificates of
merit will be awarded winners of first, second and
third places. The contest will close April I 5, 1941.

Russell J. Foval, Superintendent of Recreation,
Alton, Illinois, won 1940 memorial award with
his paper, “Decentralized Recreation.” Second
prize went to Louis W. Kolakowski, Executive
Director, Central Community Center, Columbus,
Ohio, who wrote on “Creative Crafts for Recrea-
tion,” while third place was won by Hugo W.
Wolter, Secretary, Recreation Division, Council
of Social Agencies, Washington, D. C., whose
paper was entitled, “Making Use of That Corner
Gang.” The awards were made at the meeting of
the Society of Recreation ‘Workers of America
held at the National Recreation Congress at Cleve-
land, Ohio, in October, 1940.

Further information regarding the second an-
nual contest may be secured from \Vayne Sommer,
2121 East Dauphin Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 686)

tion Demonstration Area near Louisville, Ken—
tucky. The course will be taught by members of
the science staff of the University of Louisville.

“Tree Pussle for High School Students,” J. M.
Hitchings. Senior High, Davenport, Iowa, 26
pp. $.25. Calling it a “puzzle” instead of a “key”
makes it recreation!

Tuberculosis. An animated cartoon on public
health called “Goodbye Mr. Germ,” released by
the National Tuberculosis Association, 1790
Broadway, New York, for the asking to schools
and organizations.

away, the party is over. . . . And many of the
guests, taking leave of the lazy delights of the
tropics, will be startled to find March winds still
blowing outside! At any rate, they depart with
exceedingly pleasant memories to be happily
hoarded—until the time when. in the words of
Aloha, we meet again.

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
i Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 2

   

MAGAZINES

The Camping Magazine, December 1940

“Rooting the Camp in the Community” by Norman
Studer

The Grade Teacher, January 1941

“Creating with the Rhythm Band: A Method of
Sustaining Interest” by John Merlvin Hoffman
“Games Children Like” by Clara Evans

Hygeia, January 1941
“Six Rules of Play” by John Eisele Davis

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

January 1941
“Folk Dancing in City Recreation” by Maude N.

Parker
“Competitive Synchronized Swimming” by Katharine
W. Curtis

The Keystone (Boys' Club of America), Christmas 1940

“Cement Craft” by Robert Clemments
“Camping on a Shoestring” by Wade Hawkins

Parks and Recreation, December 1940

“Public Recreation Today” by William E. Wickenden

“Winter Sports” by Emily Merkert. A lengthy de-
scription of the extensive winter sports program
at Minneapolis, Minnesota

“Display Gardens for Public Instruction” by H.
Touscher

The R es earch O uarterly, Decembe r 1940

“The Survey of the Development of a Community
Recreation Program” by Carl L. Nordly. A paper
presented at the National Convention of the Ameri-

can Association for Health, Physical Education
and Recreation, Chicago, April 25, 1940

Safety Education, January ‘1941
“Safety in the Balance” by Rev. Arnold A. Fenton

Scholastic Coach, January 1941

“What Is the Best Playground Surface?” by John T.
Cate. Bituminous is recommended for intensively

used areas and for all special game courts
“Lighting Standards for Night Football” by Ralph
A. Piper
“Evolution of the Bank” by H. V. Porter. Discus—
sion of the fan«shaped backboard authorized by
the National Basketball Committee for optional use

School Activities, January 1941

“Seeking Avocational Aptitudes for Clubs” by John

H. Horrocks
“Making Up a Musical Program” by Julia W. Wolfe.

Discussion of.a musical program for a popular
concert

Service Bulletin (National Section on Women’s Athletics
of the American Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation), December 1940

“Play Day Review”

Survey Midmouthly, December 1940
“Co-ops as Aids to Social Work” by Rosalie Supplee

The W omans Press, January 1941

“A Greek Party for January First” by Dorothy
Gladys Spicer

698

Why We Behave As We Do

Two Books of Immediate Interest}

by Porter Sargent

Getting U S Into War

A Contemporary Record of changes of the
past three years in Public Opinion—An at-
tempt to throw light on the way Interna-
tional Affairs are presented, and on the little
known forces and innuences that use events
to alter our views—How with misinforma-
tion our emotions are stirred and we are
moved to war —-How the President has been
brought from his “fool’s gold” to “every re-
source” and the American pe0ple from “never
again” to “short of war.”

Getting U S Into War is based on the 100
Sargent Bulletins that during the past two
years have been issued to educators, supple-
mented by Notes justifying, elaborating, and
bringing up to date topics treated.

Introductory Chapters illuminate histori-
cal and political backgrounds.

Ready in February
Ca 480 pp., cloth, $3.00

What Makes Lives

Endeavors to answer “What Makes You
Think So” — Challenges “How Do You Know
You Are Right”—Attempts to explain how
we are shaped or misshaped by our changing
environments —— powerful personalities, pro-
paganda and teaching ——Interprets events in
terms of human motives of the chief actors,
perhaps violating some proprieties and tabus.

Published May 1940
224 pages, cloth, $1.50

Circulars, Table of Contents
of above on request

PORTER SARGENT

11 Beacon Street Boston

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Your Sport, Winter 1941

"Fun in the New Army” by Lt.—Col. F. J. Pearson
“Up Our Alley” by Graham Thomson and Morrill

Cody. An article on bowling technique

PAMPHLETS

Directory of State, County, and Municipal Training
Schools Caring for Delinquent Children in the United
States. Children’s Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor,

Publication 264
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,

price $.10

How to Play Tennis by Ellsworth Vines
Wilson Sporting Co., 2037 N. Campbell Ave, Chi-

cago, 111., price $.25

Living and Forest Lands. U. S. Department of Agricul-
ture, Miscellaneous Publication No. 388
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price $.10

National-Forest Vacations
Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. .C.

Pleasure With Plants -by L. R. Tehon. Circular 32
Natural History Survey Division, Urbana, Ill.

Problems of Rural Youth in Selected Areas of North

Dakota. Bulletin 293
Agricultural Experiment Station, Agricultural Col-
lege, Fargo, N. D.

What Forests Give by Martha Bensley Bruere
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,

price $.15

Woodland Improvement by Roy M. Carter. Circular 305
A handbook for farmers and others interested in trees
Bulletin Mailing thce, College of Agriculture, Madi-

son, Wis., price $.05

Youth—California’s Future by Claudia Williams, Drayton
S. Bryant, and Aaron E. Jones. A summary of the
Findings of the California Youth Survey

State Relief Administration, 741 S. Flower St., Los

Angeles, Cal.
ANNUAL REPORTS

Recreation Commission, Greensboro, N. C.; Controller,
City and County of San Francisco, Cal.

', How Does Your Garden Grow?
( Continued from page 688)

A N

Perennial borders will beneht by making a lib-
era] application of a complete fertilizer. This may
be worked in with the first hoeing.

Set up a weather bureau to study weather con-
ditions.

Hardy waterlilies may be put out now. Before
doing so be sure that all lily pools have been pro—
perly drained and cleaned.

Plan to have identification contests of flowering
shrubs and wild flowers.

Study control measures for insects and for plant

diseases.
Conduct bird studies and make a check list to

determine which birds are residents and which
are summer or winter visitants.

Wm— *——————— — ——

_ - .___ w._.

- w _._.... J-—..y -._......_....._._.L——u-—‘ Aw— — —

--_.._—_——

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Parties for Young Americans

By Dorothy Gladys Spicer. The Womans Press, New
York. $1.00.

HIS BOOK is intended as a guide for “modern young

people who have learned the joy that comes from
planning and carrying out their own good times.” It is a
collection of eighteen gay party programs arranged ac-
cording to the calendar year. The parties are intended
for young Americans everywhere—in school, at home,
and in church or community groups. Most of the parties
are based on some seasonal or patriotic theme, and each
is complete from invitations and decorations to things to
do and things to eat. Maximum effectiveness and mini-
mum effort and expense have been kept in mind in the
planning of these good times.

Pewtercrait as a Hobby

Byéz Emanuele Stieri. Harper and Brothers, New York.
.00.

IN THIS, the twenty-eighth in the Harper Hobby Series,

Mr. Stieri adds another to his popular hobby manuals.
Though primarily a manual with step-by-step instruc-
tions on how to ‘make useful objects, this volume may
also be used as a guide to the appreciation of the fine
examples of pewter ware exhibited in museums of art or
sold by dealers of fine wares. Instructions are given for
making ten useful and desirable objects ranging from
simple but .attractive paper cutters to .boxes, bowls, and
other articles requiring more practice and skill. Steps in
the making of the various projects are fully illustrated
with photographs and drawings.

A History of the Theatre

By George Freedley and John A. Reeves. Crown Pub-
lishers, New York. $3.00.

THE AUTHORS have given us in this volume of almost

seven hundred pages a fascinating and absorbing his-
tory of the development of the theater through the ages
from the drama of pre-Greek days to the days of modern
America. Every form, type, and artistic movement in the
drama appears here—Chinese and other Oriental drama,
the Elizabethan stage, romanticism, realism, expression-
ism, the Russian theater, the Irish movement, Workers’
Theater, Little Theater, and the movies and radio plays.
Through the pages of the book march all the great people
of the theater—a glamorous cavalcade of playwrights,
actors, managers, producers, and designers. There are
hundreds of illustrations with many rare and unusual
portraits, settings, and costumes by noted designers of
the past and present.

In compiling this amazingly comprehensive history, the
authors did an immense amount of research work in
theaters, collections, and museums of the world. The
result is a collection of accurate information and signifi-
cant data which make this volume outstanding.

 

New ldeas for Handmade Gifts

By Elizabeth Varick. Home Institute, New York. $.15.
EOPLE WHO WORK with their hands are constantly dis-
covering how many unusual things can 'be created

from bits of left-over material and other odds and ends.

Thirty-one such articles are included in this booklet, all

of them attractive and useful, and all easy to make.

Among them are serving trays, coasters for fruit drinks,

an appliqued bag and belt set, a tin smoking set, needle-

point book ends, a covered sewing box, pot holders, and
many similar articles.

Table Top Photography

By Norris Harkness and Ernest E. Draper. Harcourt,
Brace and Company, New York. $2.95.

AFASCINATING BRANCH of photography is practically

and thoroughly presented in this book, which de-
scribes in its opening chapters the necessary equipment
for table top, even to information on how to build a sim-
ple camera for table top and constructing supplementary
ten cent store lenses. The fundamentals of more ambi-
tious table tops are approached through general princi-
ples, and there are instructions for building a permanent
set-up if many table tops are contemplated. Backgrounds
of all sorts are discussed and materials for all purposes
are covered thoroughly. The book is profusely and at-
tractively illustrated, and the information given is clear
and concise.

Wings on My Feet

By Sonja Henie. Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York. $2.00.
IN THE FIRST PART of her book Miss Henie gives an inti-

mate picture of her life from her earlier years in Nor-
way, and she tells her story delightfully. Part II, en-
titled “Now It’s Your Turn,” gives instructions for the
basic fundamentals of ice skating. Each step of the
instruction is illustrated by action pictures of Miss Henie,
which show exactly how to perform each figure.

"We Sing”

Third book in the Singing School series of song books
for schools, published by C. C. Birchard and Co.,
Boston. $.80. Set of six records, $3.50.

WE WOULD LIKE to be able to describe this book ade-
quately, but nothing short of singing the songs
themselves and looking leisurely at each page for its illus-
trations or other ornament, or only the very attractive
lettering of its title, can give anything like an adequate
idea of this book. It is as far in every respect from the
old school singing books of the days when we were chil-
dren as is the present play program in the best schools
distant from the old calesthenics.

It contains about two hundred songs representing
almost every conceivable interest of children of nine or
ten years of age. There are twelve action, game and

699

700 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

dance songs with directions for the dance or other action.
Many songs are of the out-of—doors and of other inter-
ests close to the life of the playground. There are inter-
esting invitations to the children to make up their own
songs and aids for them to do so, and also a simple ab-
breviated but thoroughly alive adaptation of the ’I-Ium-
perdinck Opera, “Hansel and Gretel” that can be sung
and acted out by the children. Another distinctive thing
about the book is the large number of fascinating de-
signs that are based on rhythmic patterns in the songs
which they decorate.

Wherever this book and its two companion books, Our
Songs and .Merry Songs. are appropriately used in the
schools there will surely be singing and dancing of many
of the songs outside of school also. A fine thing it would
be if on every playground there were at least one copy
of each of the three books, most especially of this third
one for it would appeal to children of any age; and, for
the sheer pleasure of looking through it if not to sing
its songs, it would appeal to adults also.—A. D. Zanzig

Leadership for Rural Life.

By Dwight Sanderson. Association Press, 347 Madi-
son Avenue, New York. $1.25.

A simple, brief manual on discovering and training
leaders for rural life, this book is designed to meet the
needs of extension workers, rural ministers, educators,
social workers, and others engaged in developing pro-
grams to meet changing needs. It analyzes the nature of
leadership, the role of the leader in the group, and the
creating, developing, and training of leaders. Dr. San-
derson has rendered valuable service 'both to professional
and lay leaders in stating in so readable a way the funda-
mental principles involved.

Come Over to My House.

Cue Program Series. The Girls’ Friendly Society,
U.S.A., 386 Fourth Avenue, New York City. $.35.

At the Recreation Congress at Cleveland last Septem-
ber emphasis was laid on the need for activities for
younger girls which will 'be directed at homemaking.
The attractive booklet, Come Over to My House, re-
cently issued by the Girls' Friendly Society, will help
greatly in meeting the need for material of this kind. It
contains suggestions for such practical details of a child’s
life as choosing school lunches, cooking simple dishes,
playing games with the family, looking after the baby,
and selecting clothing. Each section contains references
to source material readily obtainable.

Basketball for Girls.

By Wilhelmine E. Meissner, M.A., and Elizabeth
Yeend Meyers, M.A. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.00.

This book, the twentieth in the series of Barnes Dollar
Sports Library, is an exeedingly practical one dealing as
it does with the fundamental techniques of the game.
Catching and passing, individual techniques or tactics,
shooting, offense and defense—all of these are clearly
described and illustrated. There is also a chapter on
officiating and an interesting section on the History,
Equipment and Teaching of Basketball.

Proceedingsiof the Forty-fifth Annual Convention.

American Association for Health, Physical Educa-
tion, and Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, North-
west, Washington, D. C. $1.00.

The report of the joint meeting of the American As-
sociation for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation
with the Mid-\Vest Physical Education Association at
Chicago, Illinois, April 24 to 27, 1940, is now available in
printed form. Included are general session addresses, dis-
cussions, and summaries of section meetings.

The National Ski Patrol System
and What It Does for You.

Edited by C .M. Dole. Order from John E. P. Mor-
gan, Treasurer, 155 East 44th Street, New York.
Cloth bound, $.50 a copy; paper Ibound, $5.00 per 100.

This booklet, which represents the annual report of the
National Ski Patrol System, contains much practical in-
formation on the work of ski patrols. It not only sets
forth principles and purposes, forms of organization and
functions, but gives information on how to form a patrol,
reviews 1939-1940 activities, tells the results of a survey
of accidents, and presents a roster of national patrolmen,
local ski patrol units, and leaders. Ski enthusiasts will
not want to be without this practical booklet.

America’s Children.

By Maxwell S. Stewart. Public Affairs Committee,
30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York. $.10.

This pamphlet is based on a series of government
studies and research documents assembled for the White
House Conference on Children in a Democracy. It pre-
sents graphically the problems brought about by bad eco-
nomic conditions and points out the dangers involved.
The recommendations of the White House Conference
for improving these conditions are summarized in detail
in the concluding section of the pamphlet.

America’s Children is the forty-seventh of the series of
popular, factual, ten cent pamphlets published by the
Public Affairs Committee.

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOIIN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. II. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MR5. ROBERT Woons BLIss, Washington, 11C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, ll].
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P.- DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I.. N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE I-I. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. I-Ichox, Michigan City, lml.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange. N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. II.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, New York. N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. VVADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

