Don’t Forget the Neighborhood
Recreation Leader

INCE PLAY LEADERS influence by example rather than by talk, since
S play. leaders have large responsibility for keeping a right atmosphere
in which all activities are carried on by keeping down bullying and
crabbing and maintaining a spirit of sportsmanship and good form—the
choice, the education, the guidance of recreation leaders is of the utmost
importance. The salaries ought to be at least equal to those paid teach-
ers. In reality, they ought to be higher because recreation leaders ought
to be qualified to select, train, and guide volunteers, and this requires
ability of a high order. Keeping volunteers going happily and wisely is
no mean task, requires personality and leadership qualities of a high order.

There should be not only adequate salary but also outstanding recog—
nition for the neighborhood recreation center leader, for he or she is cen—
tral to so much that happens in the neighborhood. So much of knowledge,

practical, usable, immediate knowledge of the world and of people—in
the past, the present and the future is essential if the recreation leader
really does his or her job.

, Though good recreation leaders must have the best of training and
the best opportunity to acquire experience, yet always the fact remains
that only a few persons out of each one thousand born have the natural
qualities for growing into good recreation leaders.

Such persons ought therefore from early years to grow into the
recreation movement, to prepare themselves for the exacting responsibili-
ties through many years as they take regular cultural courses in college
and later go on to secure graduate professional training.

We must award greater recognition to all our public servants——
mayors, city managers, school superintendents and principals and teach—
ers. But to the men and women in the locality who dedicate themselves
to the problems of living, of free activity, of recreation, who dedicate
themselves to building a happy free city in the leisure time, very special
recognition must be given if we are to hold for the all important task
leaders of such great natural gifts as are required.

 

OCTOBER, I94!

 

413

. "in,  q, "- 9'
Courtesy Department of Recreation, Miami Beach, Florida

 

414

l
l
l
;

Halloween in the Traditional Manner

HILE MANY of the origi-
wnal customs of All Hal-

lows Even, as it was
called, have been forgotten,
most of the things we do on
our modern Hallowe’en are derived directly from
countries across the sea or are adapted from ‘these
lands. Ireland, Scotland, and Britain are the
countries which have provided us with most of our
Hallowe’en traditions. And although, according
to some authorities, the origin of Hallowe’en goes
back more than 5,000 years to a time earlier than
3000 B. C., all through the ages the traditions and
superstitions have persisted and are today reflected
in many of the games and the fortunetelling which
are features of our modern Hallowe’en parties.

Hallowe’en is associated in the popular imagina-
tion with the supernatural influences and is clearly
a relic of pagan times. It probably originated with
the Druids who worshiped the sun. The last of
October was a time of grief for the decline of the
sun’s glory; hence the elements of the supernatural
when the dead wandered abroad together with
witches and devils. This ceremony was combined
with the harvest festival of thanksgiving to the
sun for having ripened the grain and fruit. In this
country we celebrate the harvest season the fol-
lowing month on Thanksgiving.

Our celebrations today reflect much of the
Druidical influence, such as the introduction of the
black cat which guarded the gateway to Apollo,
the bat and the owl, both sacred to the Druids
because they communicated with the dead, and the
lighting of the bonfires to keep the witches away.
It is on Hallowe’en, too, that many pe0ple per-
form rites and ceremonies '
to ascertain from the
spirits their fate.

Hallowe’en parties are
thought to date back to the
time of Charles I, when
lawyers of Middle Temple,
London, held an annual
mock parliament on the eve
of All Saints’ Day. Those
attending were dressed in
fanciful costumes and wore
masks. After the parlia-
ment there was dancing

"For 'you see. pastor. within every one
of us a spark of paganism is glowing.
It has outlasted the thousand years
since the old Teutonic times. . . ."

"However it came aboutI it is certain that
the evening of October 3lst is stamped with
a peculiar character by‘the popular imagina-
tion. The notion prevails that the supernatural
rules. Spirits walk the earth and ghosts haunt
all convenient places; spooks hide in every
corner and hobgoblins run wild. People court
these unseen creatures who have the reputation
of being friendly devils willing to give valuable
information on important subiectsI if approach-
ed rightly. The questions with which these in-
visibles are taxed usually refer to somebody's
love affairs, and that being settled. all minor
matters easily adiust themselves." —Brand
in Popular Antiquities of Great Britain.

and all kinds of revelry through-
out the night.

The eating of great quanti-
ties of nuts and apples and
other fruit has always been

_considered indispensable to the proper observance

of Hallowe’en; hence the names “Nut Crack

Night” and “Apple Snap Night.”

Revealing the Future

In every country young people look forward to
the coming of Hallowe’en, and various mystical
ceremonies are performed with a view to reveal-
ing future husbands or wives. From the myths
and superstitions surrounding All Hallows Even
have evolved certain symbols which have become
the basis for fortunetellin'g on the mystic occasion.
Among these are the pumpkin head, representative
of the harvest; cabbage heads, prognosticators of
the wealth, physical appearance and disposition of
a girl’s future husband; apple seeds, indicative of
the number of marriage offers a girl would have
or how soon she would wed.

There were numberless ways of foretelling the
future, and many of them are equally effective to-
day. If there are those who are skeptical, let them
try some of the simple tests which man and maid
have used since time immemoriall

It was an ancient Irish custom to collect two
chestnuts, name one for a man and the other for a
woman, then throw them into the fire. If one
hissed or, steamed, it denoted a fitful temper. If
both acted the same way, it argued strife, but if
both burned to ashes, a tranquil life was indicated.

Gay, referring to the nut—burning ceremony in

the Spell, says :_

“Two hazel nuts I threw
into the flame, and to each
nut I gave a sweetheart’s
name; This, with the loud-
est bounce me sore amaz’d
That, in a flame of bright-
est color blaz’d; As blaz’d

. the nut, so may the pas-
sion grow, For thus the
hazel nut did brighten
glow!”

In Scotland there was a
custom of pulling kale. A

415

416 HALLOWEEN IN THE TRADITIONAL MANNER

young woman, blindfolded, would grope her way
to the cabbage patch and pull the first plant she
stumbled against. The amount of earth clinging
to its root showed the amount of her dowry; the
shape and size indicated the appearance and height
of the future husband, while the flavor of the heart
and stem signified his disposition. According to
the old Scottish tradition, each took home the
stalk and laid it behind the outer door. The first

person to enter the next morning was to be the

future husband.

“Maybe you would rather not pull a stalk that
is’ straight and strong—that would mean someone
you do not love. Maybe you would rather find
you got hold of a withered old stump with a lot of
earth at the root—a decrepit old man with plenty
of money in the bank. Or maybe you are wishing
for one that is slim and supple and not so tall—
for that one might mean your desired.”-——-From
Black’s H allowe’en Wraith.

N 0 modern Hallowe’en party is complete with—
out apples. And there are many
old traditions to account for
this.

An apple paring was tossed
over the left shoulder to form
the initials of the future hus-
band. If the paring broke, the
man would have no true love.

I pare the pippin round and round again,

My sweetheart’s name to flourish on the plane.

I fling the unbroken paring o’er my head,

A perfect “L” upon the ground is read.

From Pastoral: by Gay

In England an apple seed was moistened and
placed on each eyelid. Each was named for a boy
or a girl, and the wearer would try to shake them
off by winking. If one fell immediately, it meant
that person was fickle. If it remained, it denoted
constancy.

Here is another use of apple seeds as a fortune-
telling medium. The seeds were counted as the
following verse was recited:

One I love, two I love, three I love, they say;
Four I love with all my heart, and five I cast away;
Six he loves, seven she loves, eight both love, nine
he comes;
Ten he tarries, eleven he courts and believes he
marries.

Shoes, too, played their part in fortunetelling
ceremonies.  shoe was thrown over the house to
see if one’s true love were to come riding out of
the North, East, South or West, or to see whether

I Hallowe'en was known by a variety
of names—All Hallowes Even. Night
of the Dead, the Eve of the Feast
of the Old FoolsI Nutcrack Night.
and the Vigil of All Souls Day.

one must ride into the North, South, East or West
to claim her.

Turn your boots toward the street.

Leave your garters on your feet.

Put your stockings on your head,

You’ll dream of the one you are going to wed.

—An Irish rhyme.

In Scotland, a handful of hemp seed was given
to a young woman with instructions to go out in
the field and sow it, repeating the following:
“Hemp seed I sow thee an’ he that is my true love

Come after me an’ draw thee.”
On looking back she would see her future husband.

Sometimes each guest would be sent home from
a party with nine grains of oats in his mouth and
instructions to keep them there until he heard a
girl’s (or man’s) name uttered. The name men-
tioned denoted the name of the future husband or
wife.

Another test made with oats consisted of pluck-
ing the heads of oats to find out how soon one is
to marry. The number of grains
denoted the number of years.
If the top of the stalk were
broken, single blessedness was
foretold.

Another method of fore-
telling the future consisted of
giving a boy and a girl a length of string. If it
broke easily their love for each other was weak;
if it resisted, their love was strong.

A ball of yarn was featured in an old Scottish
custom. The ball, one end of which was held by
a girl, was dropped out of a window. The girl
would begin to wind and continue until a man
caught hold of the ball. The girl would call out,
“Who holds?” and the boy would reply by calling
out his name in a weird tone of voice.

To find out the number of years which will pass
before you will be wed, runs another old tradition,
hold a piece of string over a flame, counting as
you do so. The number reached before the string
breaks indicates the number of years.

V’Vedded bliss or lonely bachelorhood was fore-
told by placing three bowls on the hearthstone—one
containing clear water; the second, dirty water;
the .third was empty. A young man or woman,
blindfolded, would dip the left hand into a bowl.
If in clean water, the future husband or wife would
be young; if in dirty, a widower or widow; and if
in the empty bowl, no marriage would take place.

Q A number of night spells are recorded. One was
to walk backward several rods out of doors in the

HALLOWEEN IN THE TRADITIONAL MANNER 417

 

When the night Hag wings the troubled air
Question three. when he speaks the spell
He may ask. and she must tell."

moonlight with a mirror or, if done indoors, with
a candle in one hand and a mirror in the other,
repeating the following rhyme:

Round and round, 0 stars so fair,

Ye travel and search out everywhere.

I pray you, sweet stars, now show to me

This night who my future husband will be.
A face will without doubt be seen in the mirror!

In Japan candles were placed in a boat and
made to float in a pan of water. If they clung to
the side, a quiet life was prophesied; if they floated
together, a harmonious life was promised; if they
collided, quarrels would be the outcome.

The crowning Hallowe’en test came when a girl
was required to go directly to her room without
speaking to any one and, kneeling beside her bed,
twine together the stems of two roses, repeating
the following lines as she looked upon her lover’s
rose:

Let my love be wholly mine.

If his heart be kind and true,

Deeper grows his rose’s hue.
If her admirer were faithful,
the color of the rose would
appear darker.

Games and Pastimes of All
Hallows Even

In many countries, particu—
larly in Italy, the night was
marked by the burning of
many tires to keep
the witches and evil
spirits away. The
country folk would
approach the fires by
coursing about the

Strutt. in Sports and Pastimes, writes:
"A pastime is represented by an engrav-
ing in the Bodleian Library, and the
business of the boy upon the form, with
his head over the vessel of water, is to
catch some obiect contained therein or
avoid being ducked when the other end of
the form is elevated by his companion."

  

 

"Bob-cherry teaches at once two noble ver-
ities. patience and constancy; the first
in adhering to the pursuit of an end' and

" the latter in bearing disappointment."

fields clockwise to insure good inHuence. There
was much competition to see who would have the
largest fire. Supper was eaten out of doors and
games were played. As the fires died down, each
person in turn took a burning fagot and told a
story. The story continued along as the stick
burned.

Exceedingly popular pastimes were wishing on
St. Swithin’s Chair, and bobbing or snapping for
apples.

Wishing on St. Swithin's Chair. In this game a
boy holding two candles—one of which is lighted——
would balance himself on a pole suspended between
benches. He would make three wishes while try-
ing to light one candle from the other. If he were
successful his wishes came true.

Snapping for Apples. An old British print shows
a difficult method of snapping for apples which
was indulged in more by boys than girls. Two
sticks about fifteen inches long were crossed,
lashed together in the center, and hung from the
ceiling on a piece of string.
An apple was tied to each end
of one stick, and “a lighted
candle was fastened to each
end of the other. The frame
was swung around, and the
efforts of the merrymakers
were directed toward snatch-
ing a bite from the apple. At
the same time they
had to avoid being
burned by the candles.

In Ireland this game
is played by substi-
tuting for the lighted

418 HALLOWEEN IN THE TRADITIONAL MANNER

candles slices of bread covered with thick molasses. It was at Hallowe’en time that servants changed
This method is less hazardous, but party clothes masters or signed up anew under old ones. It was
might suffer if the contestants become too inter- the custom to have a holiday declared before they
ested in the game! resumed work. Here is a song they sang:
This is Hallaeven,
A Few Traditions and Superstitions The mom is I-Iolladay.

There are many versions of the origin of jack- Nine free nichts till Martinmas,
o’—1antern, but the story generally accepted comes As soon they’ll wear away.
from Ireland. A stingy man named Jack was Instead of a rabbit’s foot the Romans carried a
barred from heaven because of his inhospitality Sprig of the Roman tree because it was the tree of
on earth. He had played many practical jokes magic. In England and Ireland, oak, ivy and ash
on the devil so he was also locked out of hell. served as charms. In Ireland if a boy would cut
Doomed to walk the earth until judgment day, he ten ivy leaves, throw away one and put the rest
carried a lantern to find his way. under his pillow, he would dream of his true love.

Using pumpkins for jack—o’-lanterns seems to Very much concerned were the country folk
be entirely an American custom. The original about keeping away the evil spirits! A traveler in
lanterns used in the British Isles were made from Ireland who could not avoid taking a trip on Hal-
apples and turnips, the eyes and mouth being put lowe’en “played boisterous tunes upon his pipe
on with black paint. and roared a lively song.” In Lancashire it was

believed that witches assembled on Hallowe’en to
perform wicked deeds, but if lighted candles were

Bobbing for Apples and Snapping for Apples. carried over the hills from eleven until twelve the
the latter a difficult Version of the old . flames would overcome the power of the witches.
game featured in every Hallowe'en program,

are both shown in this old Encjlish print. Feasting on All

Hallows Even

Eating and feasting
was an important part
of the All Hallows
Even celebration since
it lasted from sundown
until dawn. Among
some of the farm folk
of Scotland, Ireland,
and Wales a spread of
apples, pears, buns,
nuts, shortbread, and
corn was placed on a
table as a feast for the
hungry visiting spirits.
Those viewing this
spectacle could have
any wish they might
make.

Bread or cake was
as much a part of the
Hallowe’en tradition
as was plum pudding
at Christmas time.
This may have origi-
nated from the first
baking of bread from
the new grain. a

 

 

HALLOWEEN IN THE TRADITIONAL MANNER 419

In England it was the cus—
tom for the people to go “soul-
ing” on All Hallows Even. As
they went from house to house
they were presented with tri-
angular shaped cookies with
seeds on the top. Everyone
took‘ two cookies—one to eat,
the other to keep for good luck !
Children making their rounds on All Souls Day
in quest of soul-cakes, apples, and nuts would

', make this plea:

A song for a soul-cake,

A song for a soul.

Please give us a soul-cake,
For a year for a soul. I

Dumb Cakes. The dough was a stiff cookie
dough made beforehand. Each girl was given a
lump which she formed into a three-cornered cake,
marking it with her initial and that of her sweet—
heart. The cakes were then baked. If when done
the initials had split apart, it was decreed that the
two would not marry. If they had run together,
the couple would wed. If the initial of one were
crooked, he would prove false to the other; if
straight, he would prove faithful. The dumb cakes
were to be kept and taken home and eaten before
‘ going to bed, thus insuring lucky dreams.

Thumb Cakes. On the Isle of Lewis thumb cakes
were used. The girls were given small pieces of
dough which they kneaded in absolute silence with
the thumb. Before midnight the initials of a young
‘ man were pricked on the cake with a new pin and
’ placed in the oven to bake. At midnight each lover
, was expected to enter and put his hand on the cake
. with his initials.

Fortune Cake. A number of small articles baked
I in a cake indicated the following: ring—marriage;
: thimble-m—single bliss; nut in a shell—marry a
widow or widower ; dime—riches ; key-—-a journey;
speck of sunshine (spoon of yellow batter)—hap—
pmess.

Lamb's Wool. ~A drink made of milk in which
crushed apples are mixed.

Some Modern Adaptations

In our American Hallowe’en
decorations, the influence of
All Hallows Even are to be
found in the nuts, apples, and
other fruit used for table dec-
. orations, and the jack-o’—lan—

The modern prank of chalking the backs
of passing strangers is said to be the
outgrowth of an old English custom.
Boys would go through the streets of
the town marking with white chalk the
backs of passing pedestrians and the
doors of houses. thus signalling the

end of the reign of the "White God"

—-the harvest sun, the warm sun.

If you are interested in Hallowe'en
celebrations in the modern manner'
you will want to be reminded of the
Minneapolis Hallowe'en Fun Book pub-
lished under the sponsorship of the
Minneapolis Hallowe'en Committee
with headquarters at 325 City HallI
Minnea polis.Copies are available from
the Committee at twenty-five cents.

terns, black cats, bats, and owls
adorning the walls. America
has added two important motifs
for decorations that are her
own—corn stalks and jack—o’-
lanterns made of pumpkins. We
have also made yellow and
black our color scheme, a re—
flection, no doubt, of the bar-
vest season and the black magic and supernatural
influences of the occasion.

Many of our games remain much the same, such
as bobbing for apples and games played with nuts.
Some have been varied although the principle re-
mains the.same. For example, a variation of the
gameof the English Snap Apple consists of hang-
ing a hoop from the ceiling instead of the crossed
pieces of wood with the candles and apples at—
tached to the ends. At intervals around the hoop
doughnuts, apples, candies, cakes, and raisins are
tied. The string is twisted, then released, and as
the hoop revolves each contestant steps up and
tries to take a bite of whatever comes along. In-
stead of the snap apple a doughnut is sometimes
suspended by a string in a doorway. The players
must eat the doughnut without breaking the part
of the cake around the hole in the middle.

A single candle is sometimes lighted and swung
around on a stick. To blow a candle out as it re-
volves requires attention and accuracy of aim!

Instead of lighting one candle from another
while sitting on St. Swithin’s Chair, the contestant F
may be asked to thread a needle while sitting on a
round bottle or jug, with the heel of one foot on
the toe of the other. If he accomplishes this feat,
his three wishes will be granted. It is important
that the bottle or jug used be very sturdy as
broken glass or pottery might cause injury.

The test of placing apple seeds on the eyelids is
also used at modern parties, but it usually foretells
whether one is to travel or stay at home. Another
use of seeds is to place all the seeds from one
apple on the right palm and strike the arm with
the left hand. The number of seeds remaining will
indicate how many letters will
be received in a fortnight.

The midsummer wheel which
was rolled into the Moselle
River in France and meant, if
the flames that wreathed it
were not extinguished, that
the grape arbor would be

(Continued on. page 468)

 

A City-Wide Hallowe’en Celebration

ONTIAC, MICHIGAN, is plan-
ning for its eighth annual

By A. E. GENTER

are made for the funniest, most
original, and best character in

CitY'Wide Halloweien PartY- Before Pontiacl Michigan. had the eaCh age group-
Hallowe’en celebrations have happy thought of initiating a city- Following the parade a dance

become a permanent institution Wide Halloweien celebra’fion. “19 is held in one-half of the market

in Pontiac. The first celebration
was initiated in 1933 by Frank
B. Ruf, Secretary of the Y.M.
C.A., then Mayor of the city,

and it has continued ever since to be the “Mayor’s
party.” The unusual thing about the event is that
nearly forty organizations cooperate in putting on

the celebration, with very little cost
to any group. The Recreation De-
partment serves as the agency re-
sponsible for securing . representa-
tives from each organization and
getting them together to make plans
for the party.

A costume parade by children and
adults is the main feature of the
event. The parade is organized in
the city market, which provides pro-
tection from cold or rain. In case of
rain, the parade is held in the mar-
ket. When it is ready to start a
group of judges make their selec—

tions and give each winner an en-'

velope containing an order for his
or her award. The name of the win-
ner is reported back to the Recrea-
tion Department. Three judges are
assigned to each costume section in
each division according to three age
groups: juniors, eight to twelve;
intermediates, thirteen to sixteen;
adults, seventeen and over. Awards

420

Police and Fire Departments were
swamped with calls for assistance.
Now few such calls are reported.

 

and an amateur show in the
other half.

Everyone Helps

Last year favors and noise makers were pro-
vided by Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs. The judges
were furnished by Consumers Power, Northside

Community Club, Bell Telephone,
VVestside Civic Association, Ex—
change and Cosmopolitan Clubs.
Solicitation of prizes was in the
hands of the American Legion
Auxiliary, Zonta Club, and the Board
of Commerce.

Policing was done by the Police
Department assisted by American
Legion, Canadian Legion, and Vet—
erans of Foreign Wars. Decorations
were furnished by the Yellow Truck
and Coach, Fisher Body, and the

Pontiac Motor Car Company.

Entries were secured by the Par—
ent Teachers Associations, the
schools, and the Y.M.C.A. The city
engineer furnish lumber and labor
for the band platform and the ama-
teur contest platform, while the City
Electrical Department put up special
lights.

The Mayor, Hon. George Booth,
who was chairman of the party. gave

(Continued on page 468)

 

Recreation for Defense

VERY MOTHER in
America who has
had her son taken

from her and placed in
training wants to know
what is being done to
conserve the health and
happiness of her boy. To
her country she has given)
her most precious hostage to the future. Her boy
has manfully shouldered his new responsibilities
as an American, first, last, and always. However,
in this new environment, so different from any he
has ever known, he soon becomes homesick. The
world of home tenderness, warm friendships,
youthful pleasures, educational opportunity, and
remunerative occupation has been usurped by one
of constant drill, compulsory obedience, grueling
physical exertion, with different food, plenty of
dust, and slight financial compensation. Uprooted
from all that he holds dear, the lad naturally longs
for the surroundings from
which he has been deprived.
He is physically tired and in
dire need of re-creation in

O

.I P
IL‘ It".
.‘p‘t
Na

. 'w‘ . . I
‘ is? s.- *.-a  Mi a» v
I.‘ -‘ hr. ~ 9 ‘,Na.“.' k

i 0 ’v
..

The Regional Parks are doing their
utmost to serve the men in uniform

By ELBERT M. VAIL
District Manager
East Bay Regional Park District
California

The Brazilian BuildingI a survival of the
San Francisco World's Fair, which is be-
ing used extensively for dances and other
social gatherings held for men in uniform

the fullest sense. He needs
an environment where he
can .relax, rest, and visit '
with girls and their par-
ents who are like those
he has always known at
home.
Morale Building

I speak feelingly on the
recreational needs of the boys in uniform, for
when I organized the War Service Board of San
Antonio during the first \Vorld War, the purpose
was to bolster up the sorely sagging morale of the
men in khaki. I later became a private and then
an officer, so I know from personal experience
whata soldier craves as well as to What degree the
War Service Board met his needs.

One of the best services rendered by the War
Service Board was the opening of a six story
building which was donated for the free use of the
soldiers. It was called the "Tip Top Club” and
was their town meeting place.
It had an information bureau,
lounging .and writing rooms,
a social hall for the many

 

422 RECREATION FOR DEFENSE

entertainments and dances that were given, and
guest rooms where they could sleep when on
leave. The famous Fort Alamo, in the center of
the city, was turned into another bureau where
men in uniform could ascertain what the city of—
xfered them in the line of amusement, dances, and
sports. One of the large city parks was given over
exclusively to their outdoor recreation. Their
morale and their spirits suddenly zoomed upwards.
Individually and collectively, the army’s problem
of morale in San Antonio was no longer a problem.

The recreational needs of our armed forces in
this present defenseemergency are greater because
the boys have more leisure than they had in the
last World War. With this in mind, the Board of
Directors of the Regional Parks early offered the
recreation and rest facilities of these parks to the
boys in service. The Board realizes that whole-
some recreation is an antidote to the evil influences
that spring up around military encampments. Con-
sequently they have bent every effort toward pro-
viding our boys in training with agreeable and
wholesome entertainment.

The Regional Parks

The Regional Parks of California are strategi-
cally situated to meet the requirements of our men
in uniform. Located on the eastern shore of San
Francisco Bay, they are within easy access to the
young men stationed at Mare Island Navy Base,
the Presidio of San Francisco, Fort Barry, Fort
Manson and Fort Scott on the Golden Gate, Mof—
fett and Hamilton Air Fields, and at Fort Ord at
Monterey. The parks are logical playgrounds for
thousands of youths recently enrolled in the various
branches of the service.

The vast extent of the

paradise. Over 4,000 acres, in infinite variety——
rugged hills, redwood forests, wooded dells, jewel-
like lakes, and flower-sprinkled meadows, combine
to enchant the eye and refresh the spirit of the
beholder. From its lofty pinacles the panorama is
breath taking. .
Although there are fifty miles of boulevards,
sixty miles of trails, twelve playfields, two bathing
beaches, a casting pool, an archery range, a cham-
pion golf course, three club houses, thirty camp
sites, more than a hundred picnic grounds and two
lakes available for all kinds of aquatic sports, the
Regional Parks retain their wilderness charm. It
is still as naturally beautiful as it was whenthe
Spanish explorer, de Anza, told, in 1770, how he
hunted bear, deer and pheasants in its wooded val-
leys and high mountains. Since the parks have
been made a game refuge there has been a notice-
able increase in the wild life. Deer, raccoon, opos-
sum, fox, grouse, rabbits and mountain and val-
ley quail are now abundant. Song birds of both
migratory and resident varieties are likewise
thronging to this protected area. '

The Parks Meet Their Needs

It is to this_natural wonderland that our lads in
the service are flocking in their leisure hours. The
parks are just a step away from a great metropoli-
tan area. In a few minutes the bustle and confu-
sion of the cities can be replaced with the restful
lovliness and numberless diversions of the parks.
Singly and en masse, our sons in uniform have
been rested and strengthened by their visits for
their serious business of arms.

Cooperating with the Regional Park Board have

been the women’s organi-
zations, service clubs, fra—

Regional Parks leaves
ample room for that pur-
pose. A city or any army
might lose itself in
the twenty-two mile
stretch of natural parks
that lie back of the seven
east bay cities, Oakland,
Berkeley, Piedmont, San
Leandro, Alameda, Al-
bany and Emeryville
(which comprise the
Regional Park District).
They rise behind the
cities in all the noble
grandeur of a natural

Five short years ago the East Bay Regional Parks
narrowly escaped being subdivided into city lots.
Realty syndicates were bidding for the property
when a group of citizens secured the passage of
a bill through the State Legislature authorizing
the incorporation and management of park districts
in city and county territory to acquire. improveI
and maintain parksl playgrounds. beachesl park-
ways, scenic drives and all other facilities for rec-
reation. The newl -created Board had a beautiful
wilderness to wor with—nothing else. Today rec-
reation facilities of all kinds are available. The
natural charm of the wilderness has not been lost
but has been cleverly combined with a recreation
service which affords all the opportunities for out-
door enioyment the heart of a soldier could de-
sire for his leisure time. Too much credit cannot
be given the various federal agencies for their
contribution to the work of developing the parks.

ternal orders, American
Legion Posts, and the
churches. Within the park
they have held dances,
community sings, picnics,
swimming parties, camp-
fire frolics, horseback
rides, and weenie roasts
for boys in uniform
selected by their officers,
and young women select—
ed by the sponsoring
groups.

Our buildings in the
Regional Parks are well
equipped to handle the

groups of uniformed boys
1' and sun-tanned girls that
collect in them for the
i many dances and frolics
that are now being organ-
ized. Especially popular
has been the Brazilian
building, located back of
the University of Cali-
‘ fornia in the Charles Lee
Tilden Regional Park. All
the equipment of this

RECREATION FOR DEFENSE

"Practically every community." says Mr. Vail,
"has public buildings, churches. school gym-
nasiums and auditoriums. Many have privately
owned buildings with vacant floors or rooms.
They can be used in entertaining boys from the
neighboring encampments. The automobile
makes distances negligible.We all have our ser-
vice clubs, our Legionl our women's clubsl tra-
ternal orders and church groups. Through them
we can marshal the entertainment committees.
and their dancing daughters, the interested and
sympathetic listenersl the homes that would en-
ioy entertaining a lonely boy at a family meal."

423

With the unusual powers
granted the Regional Park
District, the Board has
called on all the mayors of
the seven cities within the
Regional Park District to
organize their recreation
facilities to meet defense
needs. They have cooper-
ated in a splendid manner
by instructing their vari-
ous recreation and park

 

structure, perhaps the love-

‘ liest in our parks, is a gift of the United States of
Brazil. The parquet Hoors, beautiful paneling,
huge plate glass mirrors, indirect lighting, exotic
plants and attractive furnishings, were all part of
the Brazilian building on Treasure Island when
i the VVorld’s Fair was held there two years ago.
Today our boys disport themselves not only under
the stars and stripes but beneath the flag of Brazil
. that fiies beside it—a symbol of friendship be-
‘ tween two of the United States of the Americas.
From another friendly nation came week-end
3 guests not long ago. British seamen of the Royal
_ Navy, staying at Mare Island while their ship was
i being put into commission, broke the monotony of
: their waiting as guests of the parks. We have
since been asked by the Commander and security
officer at Mare Island to allow numbers of our
. own sailors to spend periods of normal fun and
‘ relaxation in the Regional Parks.

Hundreds from near—by camps are being shel—
A tered and entertained in our parks. The swim-
j ming and other entertainment features of the parks
are placed at their diSposal, and arrangements have
 been also made for them to use the ice rink in
Berkeley and the Greek Theater on the University
of California campus. We have found that the
boys, after their strenuous life at camp, enjoy most
of all sunning themselves on the bathing beaches,
preferably in the company of some member of the
fair sex! They do not care for organized sports or
strenuous athletics. They want a respite from the
monotony of camp life. They want to gaze at the
blue sky, the green water, the trees, the hills, and,
above all, into the eyes of an attractive young
woman! These visits have been so successful that
arrangements have already been made for others.

Only the Beginning
This is just the beginning of our extensive rec-
reation program for young America in uniform.

departments to organize
their social centers, recreation grOunds and parks
for the use of the men in uniform.

The Chambers of Commerce, as well as the
mayors of the seven cities, are cooperating with
the Regional Park Board in getting a six point
program under way. It is, interestingly enough,
the identical program the War Service Board of

San Antonio found so helpful in World War I.

1. Opening of a central information and housing
I bureau for the convenience of the armed forces.

2. Opening of homes under proper leadership.

3. Publicizing of recreation facilities available to men
in training.

4. Use of churches, lodges, club rooms, schools, li-
braries, and public buildings for the men in uniform.

5. Encouragement of special programs on regular
week days so the soldiers may‘know where and
when they can attend concerts, community sings,
community gatherings and dances.

6."Obtaining the cooperation of the commercial rec-
reational establishments, such as skating rinks,
moving picture houses, and public beaches to give
special rates to men in uniform.

The Cost to the Community

The expense to the community, in supplying the
service men with healthful and happy leisure hours,
is mainly in effort and planning. It is not neces-
sary to spend huge sums of money for the erection
of new buildings, new parks and new amusements.
The parks are already made. The buildings built
for the CCC boys are vacant now and available for
the groups of soldiers and sailors when they are
staying in the parks. All the facilities for recrea-
tion are there and at their disposal. The indi-
viduals and clubs in the community are_most help-
ful in sponsoring entertainment. The women and
girls donate their company and time. Families are
opening their homes. As a result, boys who were
lonely and homesick are happier. They have gained

(Continued on page 468)

A Craft and Hobby Exhibit in San Diego

ODAY, MORE than ever be—

fore, handcraft and other

hobbies are proving valu—
able in combating tendencies
toward neuroses and hysteria
attendant upon the continu-
ous excitement of swift mov—
ing world changes. So the in-
vitation of the San Diego Recreation Department
for everyone in Southern California to visit the
Fair, and for every craftsman and hobbyist in San
Diego County to exhibit their wares, should at-
tract ari even greater number of exhibits and
visitors than it did last year, when 34,999 people
took time out to inspect more than 25,000 craft
and hobby items displayed at the Municipal Gym-
nasium in Balboa Park.

Craft shows are common affairs in the United
States, and occasionally hobbyists come together
to focus attention on the articles which are the result
of their particular diversion. However, it was left
to San Diego to discover how closely related the
recreation efforts of craftsmen and hobbyists really
are, and how well the products of those efforts can
be exhibited in a common fair.

It began as an experiment in 1939, when it was
decided to hold a fair in the huge Municipal Gym-
nasium, a former Exposition building. Although
it was then late June, plans were made to open
the Fair in August. A director was placed in com—
plete charge of the event, and lieutenants were
appointed to look after various details—one for
registration, one for plotting the door space, one
for decorations, and one to take charge of guides,
watchmen and caretakers. The Fair, attracting
nearly 18,000 people and thousands of exhibits,
proved so popular that the city decided to make it
an annual event. That decision was more than
justified in 1940 when both attendance and the
number of exhibits nearly doubled those of the
preceding year. Craft displays included paintings
on wood, glass, fabric, gourds, cork and paper
done with _oil or water color. Many crayon draw-
ings were in evidence, too. There were samples
of tile work, block printing, rubber craft, wood—
burning, crepe paper craft, puppet making, basketry,
nut craft, shell craft, leather work and wood fabric
flower making.

424

Since l939 the hobbyists and
craftsmen of: San Diego have
displayed their "wares" in a
yearly exhibition which has
become an outstanding event

   
   
   
   
  
   
 
  

Many playgrounds sent to
the Fair specimens of em~
bossed metal work in copper
and aluminum that woul
have been a credit to exper
artisans. All sorts of needle
craft, from simple doll dresses
made by young children to
most difficult embroidery and tapestry work, knit-
ting, crocheting, hand-weaving and bead work
also were brought from the playgrounds to corn
pete with exquisite Italian point lace which on
hobbyist displayed. Interpreting the various craft
were fourteen competent teachers who conducte
fifty-
sands of interested spectators on just what were

the best methods of accomplishing work similar to
that on display.

H.
S
O
O
5
('D
:5"
0
Cl
'1
O.
('D
E.
O
:3
CD
#
"t
p:
'3.
O
:3
CD
0"
(“D
H,
O
"S
('D
H
:5"
O
‘5

Hobbyists brought every conceivable kind of
exhibit, from a $2,000 display saddle and trappings
ornamented with sterling silver and pure gold to
clever little soap carvings that cost the exhibitor
no more than a five-cent bar of soap and his
patience. Collections of perfume bottles, buttons,
South Sea island curios, in fact, everything that

anyone ever thought of for a hobby, were displayed
somewhere in the great showroom.

A boy who had outgrown a stroke of infantile
paralysis contracted when he was eleven months4
old, exhibited a hybrid boat, half Eskimo kayak
and half canoe, appropriately named “Scrappy,”
which he had created from several pieces of scrap
lumber, picked up here and there, a few cents

worth of paint, a strip of canvas and lots of hard
work.

Another interesting children’s exhibit was an
ingenious “domicile” made by two boys. This
model house was made from ice cream sticks, pine
cones, cellophane and donated cement. A lawn was
made of crepe paper and clay. The effect was so
realistic that ants made a temporary home in the
lawn and raided the house for groceries, the boys .
said! Cones from a near—by pine tree were painted
and used for landscaping with flowers of crepe
paper. Donated by workmen on projects at school
grounds were handfuls of cement which were used
for walks, a fish pond, fireplace and chimney. Cel—-

(Continued on page 468)

 

- UILTING is enjoying a revival, with increas-
Q ingly large numbers of women adopting this
pastime to which the women of the nine-
teenth century devoted the greater part of their
leisure hours. This form of needlecraft, born of
the necessity of the pioneering housewife, lapsed
into an almost forgotten art with the advance of
modern machinery which displaced the need for
homespun and homemade house furnishings.

The life of America is written in the quilts.
Historical, biblical, geographical figures and names,
native American flora and fauna were the subject
of needlecraft study.

“Old Hickory,” one of the standard quilts, is
an excellent example of America’s contribution to
‘ quilting; the name and design symbolize the spirit
of America imbued into the design. “Rocky Road
to California” symbolizes the difficulties of early
pioneer travel. “Washington Pavement” is an-
other example of the early quilt pattern. Other
notable examples include such definitely American
designs as “Ohio Rose,” “Rebel’s Feather,” “New
York Beauty,” “Pine Tree,”
“Bear’s Paw,” “Log Cabin,”
“Colonial Lady,” “Big Chief,”
“Missouri Daisy,” “Little Red
Schoolhouse,” and “Burgoyne
-——to mention only a few.

Interspersed with these de—
signs are carry-overs from the

"Recreation and quilting were early
associates. QuiltingI although a
n necessary part of the early Ameri-
can housewite‘s chores. was never-
theless one of her most pleasant
tasks. and the quilting bee has
become a part of

GEORGE W. E. SMITH

Area Recreation Supervisor
WPA

Elwoodl lndiana

H

Fatherland with “French Bouquet, “Queen’s
Crown,” and other designs having as motifs things
that were familiar to the early settler’s life in the
Mother Country. 1

The early church social gatherings were ofttimes
centered about a quilt frame with members add-
ing lists of names to elaborate “Friendship” and
“Album” quilts that were presented as a memento
of the parish to some traveling evangelist. Quilts
were frequently auctioned to the highest bidder
to raise funds for church and schools and the
church bazaar was not complete without its quilt
auction.

During the post Spanish-American War period
there was a growing tendency to discard most of
the old ideas in furniture, furnishings and even
customs. New things were coming in, many of
them vast improvements over anything the world
had ever known. The automobile, the radio, elec-
tricity, modernistic furniture were new. There
was a tendency to discard or to abandon practi-
cally everything considered old-fashioned. But
with the return of interest in
many of the arts and crafts of
the past, needlework is now
coming into its own.

Today, although women are
engaged in archery, horseback
riding, swimming and a diversi-

Americana." (Continued on page 469)

425

The Mill Creek Park Art Exhibit

An exhibit, promoted as a
recreation activity, which
is making a definite con-
tribution to the cultural
life of an industrial city

By
KENNETH C. WIBLE

The author of this article. at the
present time Director of Activities
and Leadership, Recreation Depart-
ment, Highland Park. Michigan. was
formerly Director of Recreation at

Mill Creek Parkl Youngstown, Ohio.

3,000 visitors viewed 150 paintings of a great

nature park well loved by the citizens of
Youngstown, Ohio. Forty-five of the paintings
were done by adults and the rest by students in
the Junior and Senior High School art classes.
This was the third art exhibit in Mill Creek Park,
and each year the activity has shown an increase
in the number of paintings and exhibit visitors.

In 1938, Mr. Albert E. Davies, Park Superin—
tendent, suggested that a general exhibit of park
paintings might meet with public approval. The
idea was well received because the beautiful falls
and shaded trails and ravines of Mill Creek Park
had been the inspiration for local artists since the
founding of the park in 1891. One local artist had
painted a famous waterfall and Old Mill scene in
the park over a thousand times, having started
when a boy of twelve years. In 1937 the Buckeye
Art Club, composed of local business men inter-
ested in painting as a hobby, organized an “Artist’s
Day,” in which artists from eastern Ohio and west-
ern Pennsylvania were invited to paint in the park,

426

IN A THREE WEEK PERIOD in November of 1940,

 

Ever-popular subject for the amateur
artist's brush—the Old Mill with its
waterfall drop of twenty-three feet

on a Sunday in May. After the paintings were
completed a picnic dinner was followed by a judg-
ing of the finished paintings.

As is usually the case in the larger communi-
ties, interest in active art work and art apprecia-
tion is carried on by several art groups. At the
suggestion of the president of the Business Men’s
Art Club, each of the four art clubs in the city
was asked to help organize the first exhibit. From
the enthusiasm of the first meeting it was clearly
evident that every art group in Youngstown was
eager to make the venture a success.

Rules and Regulations
One of the hrst rules set down by the committee

stated that paintings must be only of the park and

painted in the park and no outside subjects were
to be permitted. Such a narrow regulation can be
understood only when one realizes that Mill Creek

THE MILL CREEK PARK ART EXHIBIT, 427

Park is one of the best known nature parks in the
United States, with 1867 acres of beautifully
wooded territory made up of three broad lakes
which are fed by a sparkling stream of water and
lined on either side by deep ravines, all heavily
wooded. The starting point of this nature won-
derland is one and a half miles from the central
square of Youngstown, and six miles is the farth-
est point away from the square. Since the artists
of Youngstown can all walk or drive to the park
in ten minutes, it is little wonder that the commit-
tee decreed that the park itself was subject enough
for the local endeavors.

The committee of four from the local art clubs
set up some very simple objectives for the exhibit.

The main endeavor of the exhibit would be to '

show the natural beauty of the park through the
artistic medium and skills of the individual artist.
Since art desires to free rather than restrict, the
artist was to be permitted to choose 'freely any
panoramic view or single tree or flower study for
his canvas. The committee then discussed the im-
portant question of the exhibit “jury.” The use
of the jury in the gallery exhibit is to select‘ paint-
ings which in their opinion are worthy of being
placed in the exhibit. In other words, in most
gallery hangings, an artist is rather “breathless
until his painting has been accepted. Frequently
as many as five hundred paintings will be sub-
mitted to a gallery exhibit, and the jury will only
accept seventy-five for hanging. The committee
quickly decided that the Mill Creek Park Art Ex-
hibit should possess broad community interest and
no rigid entrance conditions should be imposed.
In final conclusion, the general committee them-
selves agreed to serve as a jury and hanging com—
! mittee.

! The question of the judging of the outstanding
paintings was also an important matter for the
committee to decide. In most gallery exhibits art
critics are selected to decide which paintings of
those passed by the jury are outstanding and
therefore deserving of awards. However, the com-
niittee for the first Mill Creek Park Exhibit sensed
the need of stimulating public interest in this new
venture in the field of park activities, and'decided
that the award winners should be selected by a
popular ballot taken from visitors to the exhibit.
The awards were to be silver loving cups to those
artists whose paintings received the highest num-
ber of points in a preferential balloting. Each
visitor was to be allowed three favorite selections
on his ballot with first choice giving the painting

l

 

chosen three points, the second choice, two points,
and the last choice, one point. The painting re-
ceiving the highest number of points ,would be

. placed first.

Housing the Exhibit

After the types of paintings and judging was
decided upon, the date and location of the exhibit
was next discussed.- Since Youngstown possesses
a fine art gallery, some of the committee naturally '
felt that the exhibit should be held there, but after
deliberating for some time the committee agreed
that the exhibit should be held in a (park building.
The date for the exhibit was set for an early week
in November to permit artists to paint the brilliant
colors of autumn which so beautify our north-
ern parks in the month of October.

It was then decided to hold the exhibit in a
building known as Pioneer Pavilion. This build-
ing was a former woolen mill constructed in 1821,
but since its remodeling in 1891, the year of the
park’s establishment, it has been a favorite dance
and picnic center for the people of Youngstown.
Because of its antiquity, natural beauty, and prox-
imity to the populated sections of Youngstown,
the building made an ideal location for the exhibit.
The structure, however, was not well lighted and
this condition caused some anxiety at first, since
lighting is an all—important factor in an exhibit of
paintings. There was also the problem of building
a suitable background on which to hang the paint—
ings. The latter problem was easily solved by
placing several sections of wall board (6’ x 4’) on
a frame eighteen inches from the floor of the pa-
vilion. This background (brown at first and later
changed to neutral gray) was lighted by twelve
R-40 Mazda reflector lamps which were hung
from the ordinary ceiling outlets. This background
and lighting proved very satisfactory even to the
most exacting critic accustomed to the perfect
lighting conditions of the art gallery.

Arousing Interest

The problem of the mechanics of arranging the
exhibit was not nearly as difficult as insuring a
good participation on the part of the artists and
the spectators. Since the plan was new to the art
groups of the community, much of the publicity
had to be written in their direction, but the greater
part was directed towards the public at large.
Since the exhibit was to last only one week, the
park staff thought people would come to the ex-

'hibit only under the press of constant publicity.

428 THE MILL CREEK PARK ART EXHIBIT

Such reasoning was entirely justified because most
museum art directors know that one of their most
important tasks lies in getting people to visit dif—
ferent exhibits, in view of the fact that so many of
the American public feel that an art gallery is a
place to visit at least once in a lifetime and cer—
tainly never more than once a year.

" Since the pavilion lies in the main line of traf-
fic in the park, a committee member suggested that
' cards inviting visitors to attend the exhibit be
passed out to the hundreds of cars and individuals
that travel near the building every day. Two thou-
sand of these cards were distributed by the "park
police on the opening day of the exhibit with good
results.

Two days before the exhibit was to open, forty—
seven paintings were sitting along the pavilion
walls waiting to be hung. Now, most husbands
who have been given the unwelcome job of hang-
ing a dozen pictures and mirrors on moving day
would recognize the mood of
the exhibit committee when
they tackled the job of hanging
forty-seven works of art! As
a matter of fact, the exhibit
would probably have opened
at least three days late had not
the chairman in desperation
summoned the curator‘of the
local art museum who came
posthaste, and in no time the
big frames were going where
they should, the little ones in another location, and
our exhibit was finally taking form. But after the
paintings were hung on the wall a quick check had
to be made to place all paintings in the exhibit
catalogue which lists the number, title, name of
artist and sale price of each painting.

And Finally the Exhibit!

Saturday was chosen as the opening day be-
cause of the large numbers of people who visit the
park on that day during the autumn color period.
All day, on Saturday and Sunday, the exhibit room
was thronged with people, some from the regular
art patrons group, but by far the larger per cent
from the casual Sunday hiker or tourist who just
happened to pass by. All visitors stayed for a very
thorough study of the paintings, and all were sur-
prised at the amount of familiar beauty reflected
from the canvases on the temporary exhibit frame.
People saw trails they had followed as children,
great towering trees reminding them of the strength

Youngstown's Mill Creek Park Art Ex-

hibit means many pleasant hours spent
in the beautiful surroundings of the
park creating each work of art; many
school children brought into contact
with the out of doors in a delight-
fully different way. and thousands of
visitors made intimately aware of the
beauty of the park through the crea-
tive activity of the amateur artist.

   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  

of their forest friends, wide serene lakes where
they had fished in boyhood, huge sections of sand-
stone rock outcroppings, the cool fern-lined walls
of the ravines, and the best known beauty spot of
the park, the Old Mill with its twenty-three foot
waterfall drop and deep grottoes undercut by
20,000 years of geologic action. And in addition to
the scenic beauties shown by the oils and water
colors there were also many studies suggesting the
activities of the park: a gay scene of a family pre-
paring a picnic dinner above an open grill, an old
man with cane sound asleep on a park bench, chil-
dren dragging sleds across a snow-covered park
bridge, an artist painting while surrounded by
curious and somewhat meddlesome bystanders, and
children dancing and playing in a park meadow.
Everyone saw, pictured before him, some view or
aspect of the park which he had enjoyed for
many years.

The exhibit lasted ten days culminating in a
presentation of awards when
engraved loving cups, bought
from a small registration fee
collected from each artist, were
presented for the most popular
paintings based on the ballot
taken during the exhibit. After
the exhibit was completed, the
three winning paintings were
retained, with the artists’ per—
mission, and exhibited for a
year in a public building in
the park.

Progress from Year to Year

A total of three art exhibits has been held in
the park with increasing success. For example, in
the second year it was decided to emphasize indi-
vidual studies rather than panoramic or vista
scenes. Consequently, awards were established for
the best Hower and foliage painting as judged by a
committee. The exhibit the second year, there-
fore, possessed a much broader subject matter with
many views of summer Howers, ferns and leaf de-
signs. This type of painting attracted the interest
of garden club groups and the central forum gave
a monetary award to the winning artist in the
flower group.

During the second year awards for all winners
were of an entirely different type than those of the
previous year, and to this change any recreation
leader considering the organization of an art ex-
hibit should take heed. Contrary to all rules or

theories of the correct and desirable awards for
contest winners, the artist prefers a monetary
award or one of monetary value! One can best
understand this preference when one knows that
most large art exhibits throughout the country
have offered money prizes as awards for many
years. The awards for the second art exhibit at
the direct request of the committee were art mer-
chandise articles which were donated for the most
part by the local art dealer.

In the third year two important improvements
were made. In the first place, an expert judging
committee selected the winning paintings and,
secondly, art classes from the junior and senior
high schools were asked to send pictures to a
special school exhibit. Since the committee has
full sway in planning theaexhibit it is only natural
that the rules covering the exhibit will follow the
wishes of these leaders. Whereas the committees
for the first two exhibits were satisfied to let the
winners be chosen by popular ballot, the third year
committee requested the use of expert critics with
the balloting retained with only secondary empha-
sis. Surprisingly enough, two very well qualified
professors from near—by colleges consented to do
the judging simply by having their traveling ex—
penses paid. Both men were making concessions
because of the type of exhibit they were called
upon to judge. '

Unquestionably the use of judges in the third
exhibit aroused the interest of the better artists of
the community. Not only did the judges help in-
dividual artists by helpful suggestions, but they also
rendered the general committee valuable advice for
future exhibits.

The judging of the school exhibit was done by
the assistant director of the Butler Art Institute of
Youngstown. One hundred and five paintings from
six junior and senior high schools made up the
first school exhibit. The freshness and vigor of the
school paintings elicited very favorable comment
from the visitors. Art teachers were pleased to
have the opportunity to show class work in a pub-
lic exhibit. One of the art classes combined a pic—
nic outing in the park with a session of painting
and sketching to prepare for the park exhibit. The
art supervisor had an opportunity to interest her
staff in outdoor and park subjects.

As proof of the growing interest of art patrons
in the Mill Creek Park exhibit, two paintings were
sold during and immediately after the 1940 exhibit.
Letters were sent to P.T.A. organizations suggest-
ing that some paintings from the exhibit might be

   

THE MILL CREEK PARK ART EXHIBIT 429

a Suitable presentation for their school, since the
community has so much love for the park. One
park painting now hangs in a school, and it is
hoped that more park scenes will grace the walls of
private homes and public buildings in Youngstown.
Plans are already being made for the fourth art
exhibit to be held in the autumn of this year. Par-
ticular interest is attached to this 1941 exhibit be-
cause it comes during the fiftieth anniversary year
of the park’s establishment. Without doubt these
three previous exhibits have done much to stimu-
late interest in the painting of nature in this fine
park which was described by the late Charles
Elliott, Jr. as “a bit of Switzerland set down in
Ohio.” Thousands of individuals have been im-
pressed by the fascinating interpretations of the
skilled craftsman and many of these individuals
had never before visited an art exhibit. Art shows
such as this bring’ out not only the better‘artists in
the community but also the purely amateur artists;
many of whom had their paintings hung in a pub-
lic presentation for the first time in a park showing.
The real future of this exhibit, however, lies in
the fine artists now being trained in our public
schools. In 1939 a little fifteen year old boy
knocked at the door of the exhibit room and asked
if he could show his picture to us. The painting of
rocks and trees along the stream bank was done on’
heavy brown cardboard and encased in a frame
made by the artist from the ends of a packing case!
After grave deliberation the painting was given a‘
place of honor on the piano near the adult exhibit.
However, 105 excellent park scenes by school
artists were hung the following year, and many
spectators spent most of their time enjoying the
creations of these students. Unquestionably the
school exhibit gives much‘ promise for the future.

A Word of Caution

In planning such an exhibit there are some words
of caution for the activity director. For example,
because of the wide division between the various
schools of art, theory committee meetings can
easily slip into an unending contest between the
values of the so-called “modernists”. and “realists.”
The director must deliberately steer his committee
from such controversial subjects to the real job of
developing interest in the activity. Secondly, in-
terest in the art exhibit will not come of itself but
must be created even to the point of carrying the
exhibit to the public. As an instance, in the 1940
exhibit only 1,200 people saw the exhibit in the

(Continued on page 472)

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column oi Nature-Grams

I ORN NATURALIS T. Frank E. Elliott in
1935 and 1937 took a course in Nature Rec-
reation offered by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation. He was elected to the office of Naturalist
for the Cincinnati Municipal Recreation Commis-
sion. Today he is author of “Nature Trails,” a
66—page pamphlet compiled by workers of the
Writers’ Program of the Ohio WPA.

California’s Natural l/Vealth. A Conservation
Guide for— Secondary Schools. State Department of
Education, Sacramento, California. $.25.

Community Nature Program. “A Guide to
Community Coordination” for coordinating com-
munity and neighborhood councils may be ob-
tained from Coordinating Councils, Inc., I45 West
12th Street, Los Angeles, California. 28 pp. $.25.
Useful for a community nature guide.

Conservation Education. “Wildlife Conserva—
tion,” Ira N. Gabrielson. $3.50. 250 pp. 1941.
Macmillan Company, New York. Prepared as
secondary school text but should be valuable shelf
book for anyone.

Conservation in Rhode Island. Twelve point
program presented by Burton K. Harris, Presi—
dent of the Rhode Island Wild Life Federation:
(1) To arouse the public to the ills of pollution ; (2)
To make available colored films and slides; (3) To
provide a loan projector; (4) To provide scholar-
ships for leadership training; (5) To provide a
practical state conservation program; (6) To pro-
vide suitable book‘ material peculiar to Rhode
Island; (7) To help underwrite a state nature
study course; (8) To back
legislation; (9) To publicize,
need of divorcing from poli-
tics; (10) To help enforce
conservation of wild plants;
(II) To provide fellowships
for graduate work; (12) To
edit records of state federa-
tion.

Conservation. “Opportuni-
ties for Farm Youth in Wild-
life Conservation,” the
Edward K. Love Conserva-

430

"Nature-grams." says Cap'n BillI "are
ideas for 'getting down to brass tacks.l
Storekeepers drove brass tacks into the
counter for use in measuring goods for
their customers. Nature-grams are brass
tacks for the clientele of a recreation
department. It you are looking forward
to a career as professional nature lead-
er. learn to look at Nature-grams as
job patterns for the future. Some phases
of nature lore grow while others shrink.
Get the habit of uncovering future
naturalist hints in Nature-grams."

tion Foundation, Missouri Conservation Commis
sion, Jefferson City, Missouri.

Fire Fighters’ Training Schools for the 1941

fire season were held at Beavers Bend State Park, -

Oklahoma, at Mammoth Cave National Park, and
at California Redwoods State Park.

Fish. “Game Fish of Missouri” is the title of a
194x Missouri Conservation Commission publica-
tion. It not only gives an open season table indi-
cating when fish may be taken but also prints a
chart with the names of the parts of a fish and an
illustration of each species with a key description.

Forestry, Careers in. Charles N. Elliott. 48 pp.
Science Research Associates, I700 Prairie Avenue,
Chicago.

Fur Trapping and Management. A project for
4-H Club members distributed from Michigan
State College. This is an opportunity for farm
boys to learn.

“Gardening for Young People,” M. G. Kains.
Greenburg: Publisher, New York. 280 pp. $1.50.
By author of “Five Acres and Independence.”
Gardening in the language we all like and satisfy-
ing to the hobbyist. '

Herbs. The University of New Hampshire dis-
tributed 62,000 spearmint, sweet basil, and other
herb plants last summer to New Hampshire farm—
ers to test the state’s adaptability for marketing
herbs.

Highland Hammock State Park, Sebring,
Florida, has Sunday afternoon outdoor programs.
Community singing or a band
concert precedes a talk. The
audience runs up to a thou-
sand. Donald K. Plant has
been appointed park natural—
ist. He is a graduate in for-
estry, University of Florida.

“Humane Education, The
Place of, in the Total Educa—
tional Program” (with par-
ticular reference to the ele-
mentary school). Professor

Julia E. Dickson, Teachers

  
  
    

 

I“ College, Boston. Also “Daily Experiences in the
 Third Grade Which Contribute to Humane Edu-
; cation,” Edith M. Holway. These are publications
of the Alpha Circle, Educational Extension Ser-
’ vice. Professor Dickson, Editor-in-Chief.

Indiana has fifteen park naturalists and two
,: trailside museums. They estimate that the state
sells its nature service at less than five cents per
person. Howard H. Michaud is Chief Naturalist
for the Indiana Conservation Department and in-
‘ cidentally a biology teacher at North Side High
School, Fort Wayne.

Indians “Taos Tales,” Elsie Clews Parsons,
. Augustin. 185 pp. $3.50. Pueblo stories.

‘ “Insects and Their Stories,” Harry Hoogstraal-
l Cro.well. 144 pp. $2.00. Readable when meeting
’em on a camping trip.

Mesa Verde Club is a recreational association
recently organized in Mesa Verde National Park.
' Thomas J. Williams is president.

“Mountains, Ten Great,” R. L. G. Irving. E.
P. Dutton and Company, New York. 213 pp.
$3.75. Anyone wishing. to give personality to a
specific mountain would do well to read about
these ten outstanding mountains.

Museums. The staff of the Missouri Resources
Museum, Alfred C. Burrill, Curator, has pub-
lished a “Revised Report for New State Museums
and Office Buildings.” “Only the museum brings
a major emphasis on the beauties of creation,
esthetics of life seldom dwelt on outside of Psalms
(Bible).” The plan calls for large building units,
through a long period of years, around a quad-
, rangle. Instead of architectural lore from Rome
and Greece it is asking that common fossils be
used as sources of designs. This is unique in
museum procedure. A modern museum can be?
ingenious and still have the highest type of art.
Beautiful colored plates of designs froma sea lilies,
trilobites, and other fossils to be used for tiled
floors, ceilings, and walls appear in the book.

“National Parks, Exploring the,” is the title of
a course being given as part of the adult education

 

author “Handbook of Yosemite,” is well qualified
to conduct the course.

Natural Scenery. Excerpts from statement by
Frederick Law Olmsted regarding governmental
preservation of natural scenery. 4 pp. National
Park Service. e

Nature Recreation for children is recognized as
a function of a public recreation system. The
service endeavors to make available to children the

program in Oakland, California. Ansel F. Hall, .

IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION 431

best available natural environment in a friendly
informal way, to create an appreciation for the
outdoors, to cultivate discriminating taste, and
to develop intelligent outdoor habits that will
equip children to live more enriching lives. Nature
clubs, nature books, summer camps, and vacation
trips are media to this end.

Owl Houses. Lawrence Hantz, Izaak Walton
League, Milwaukee, has fifty owl houses for rent.
He reports that a concentration of owl pellets indi-
cates a likely spot to set up a house. The owls are
guaranteed to pay rent by catching mice. This
“ad” is copied from “Muni Hiker—Biker,” Mil-
waukee Department of Municipal Recreation.

Ranger Naturalist Program. Lest we forget:
1918—California Fish and Game Commission ac-
tivities begun in Yosemite with lectures by

Dr. Harold C. Bryant.

1920—Yosemite Nature Guide Service started by
vision of Dr. Harold C. Bryant. Private
funds paid for the service.

1923—Chief Naturalist Office of U. S. National
Park Service established.

1941—There were thirty-four permanent natural-
ists in the National Park Service following
essentially the earlier program.

“Scouting in the Schools,” by a committee,
Daniel  Kelley, Chairman. Ideas that might help
in the relationship of scouting and recreation de-
partments. Catalogue No. 3117. $.20. Boy Scouts
of America. '

Telescope. The largest in the world is being

' installed on Mount Palomar, 69 miles north of

San Diego, California. The mirror is 200 inches.
The surface of the moon will be magnified 1,320
times.

Trees. “He Studies Tree Rings So That He,
Too, Can Grow,” was the title of a feature article
in the Philadelphia Evening Public Ledger, Janu-
ary 8, 1941. Hans Burkhard, a Swiss immigrant
in 1923, found no free time as a dairy hand. Now,
as a stock room clerk in a radio shop, he is an
amateur nature photographer. He became inter-
ested in tree rings, made a graph of the weather
(1820—1939) and is now photographing cross-sec-
tions of timbers of ancient buildings. He believes
in happiness through an interesting and instruc-
tive hobby. Dr. E. E. Wildman’s tree ring project
for amateurs was made possible through the cam-
paign for laymen volunteers by the American
Philosophical Society, 104 S. Fifth Street, Phila-
delphia.

Lakeland's Nature Study Club

HE LAKELAND Nature Study
Club recently closed its sixth
season.

With the purpose of increas-
ing interest in the natural his-
tory of Florida, the club was
organized in the Lakeland Pub-
lic Library, in the winter of
1935, by two scientists, Mr.
'Roland E. Hart and Mr. Berlin
Hart Wright, and the author of this article. Early
meetings of the club were held in the small lecture
room in the library. Immediately p0pular, espe-
cially with visitors to Lakeland, the club soon be-
came a feature of the winter life of the community
and a real asset to the city.

The organization is sponsored by the Lakeland
Public Library, whose sponsorship consists chiefly
of advice to the officers from the librarian and
other staff members and the payment by the Library
of rentals for the City Commission room for night
meetings. (In the afternoOns use of the Commis-
sion room is free.) Occasionally the Lakeland
Garden Club has shared the expense of a night
entertainment. The Library has given additional
help by providing two secretaries for the club.

There is a minimum of red tape in connection
with the organization, and there are no member-
ship requirements and no fees of any kind. Of-
ficers serve without compensation, lecturers give

freely of their time and talents, and members of
the library staff consider the

club work a part of their reg-
ular duties.

Each year the
club has presented
many fine lectures
by members of the
Lakeland winter
colony, local resi-
dents, including sev-
eral members of the
faculties of the
Lakeland High
Schoolandthe
Florida Southern
College, the Polk
County Conserva—

432

A public library in a city
of Florida serves as spon-
sor of a nature study club

By SERENA C. BAILEY
Librarian

Lakeland Public Library

The library building and grounds provide
an ideal setting for the club's meetings

 

tion Club, the Florida Forest
Service, the Florida Audubon
Society, and the National Rec-
reation Association. Several in-
ternationally known 5 c i en t i sts
have addressed the club,‘ among
them Dr. Russell Henry Chit-
tenden, Dr. Charles Schuchert,
and Dr. Charles Kruck Cherrie.

Formerly nature excursions
and lectures were held on alternate weeks. Long
excursions have been dropped, however, lengthy
automobile trips having appeared to compete with
the common carriers, although no fees were
charged for the club trips. Another disadvantage
of these trips was the possible liability of car own-
ers and of the city in the event of an accident. But
in the past, fascinating excursions were made to
points of interest in Polk County and far beyond,
one of the longest and most memorable having
been to Sanibel Island.

Nature walks and trips to local gardens and
other beauty spots continue to be features offered
by the Club, although during the season just ended
interest was centered on the excellent lectures, '
motion pictures, and other entertainments arranged
by Mr. William H. Crapo, serving his third year
as president of the Club.

New this year, and a popular addition, was the
astronomy class, organized and conducted by Mr.
John J. Barron. Most of these classes were held
in a room in the Community

Building.

 

The Library

  _. grounds, occupying
 {a}. '    a city block on the

I.

l' .q.  i
w
5 ‘

shores of lovely
Lake Morton, af-
ford an ideal setting
for outdoor meet-
ings. One such meet-
ing was held in
February, I 938.
S eats had been
placed on the lawn
under the palms and

p

(Continued on
page 469)

 

Indian Music
and

Dances

HE SUBJECT of Indians

holds a fascination for

all whether young or
old. To the young it means
adventure into the unknown ;
it means the Indian bonnet,
.war paint, the peace pipe,
the tomahawk, the war
dances, and it often makes
its way into the dramatic
play of boys and girls alike.
Adults rarely miss an op—
portunity to visit an In-
dian reservation, to see a
“real” Indian festival, and
to buy the Indian folk crafts.
Americans all have a curi-
ous respect for the customs
of the Indians and their
ceremonies, but in spite of
this they, know very little of
their customs, their arts and
crafts, their rituals and,
above all, their music and
dances.

Our limited knowledge of
the songs and dances of the
Indian may be due in part
to the fact that their music
is built on the five tone
scale, an idiom which our
modern ears do not under—
stand. Their rhythm, too, is
complicated and not easily
recorded in modern nota-
tion. As a result, most In-
dian songs sound monoton-
ous and incomprehensible to
the modern American ear.
It is. very possible that even
the younger generation of
Indians who had not been
nursed t0 the tune of Indian

 

lullabies would find it just as difficult to
enjoy as we find it. a

T0 the Indian music is part of his very
existence. He has songs f0r every phase

Miss Lee points out that much has been
written on the subiect of Indian music
and dances by such authorities as Alice
Fletcher. Natalie Curtis. Frances Dans-
more. Julia Buttree and others who have
done careful research to make available
authentic information. It is her purpose
in this article merely to summarize a
few of the more interesting facts for
the benefit of those recreation workers
making use of Indian projects in their
playground. camp or club programs.

By
SYLVIA LEE
of living — lullabies, love

songs, war songs, hunting
songs, as Well as songs
calling to nature for help
and songs to heal the sick.
The drum accompaniments,
oddly enough, do not coin-
cide with the songs. Some-
times the drum beat is slower
than the voice and some-
times it is faster. This, of
course, is very difficult for
us to understand and even
more difficult for us to do.
The drum was the first
American instrument. It was
conceived by the Indians
after many years of experi-
menting. The Indian wanted
something he could carry
with him at all times—to
war, to the hunt, and to
ceremonies. Here is a phase
of. Indian life that can be
translated with great inter—
est into the Indian pro ject—
the making of Indian drums
as an introduction to the
playing of them. It’s great
fun to stretch a wet drum
skin or wet muslin across
the opening in a butter tub,
a cheese box, a small nail
keg or even a chopping
bowl and, after fastening
tightly in place, to find that
when the head is struck it
rings with the same clear
quality as a real Indian
drum. Of course, muslin,
being an inexpensive substi-
tute, must be shellacked sev-
eral times after it is dry.

433

434 INDIAN MUSIC AND DANCES

And now for decorat-
ing the drum. This is
where the music and art
leaders can work closely
together. Visits to the
museum to see the old
Indian drums and to

'study Indian designs are
an important step in the
completion of the drums.
What a feeling of
achievement when a
drum has been com-
pleted and when it takes
its rightful place in a
developing Indian proj—
ect!

The rattle, too, is an
instrument dear to the
Indian. It is of all sizes
and shapes, and there is even
a type that is worn on the
wrist or around the knee.
Rattles can be "made simply
by filling spice boxes with pebbles. This should

be fun, especially for younger children.

Another instrument very important to the In-
dian is the flute. The young lover serenades his
loved one with this sweet instrument; the medi-
cine man uses the flute, as well as the drum, for
the mellow healing quality of its tone in his at-
tendance upon the sick.’

The medicine man was a very important mem-
ber of the tribe. He had to have a cure for every-
thing, whether sickness or love. He had songs for
every occasion; some of them he composed and
others he bought from other tribes or other mem-
bers of his tribe. This custom of purchasing songs
may be the origin of our present music copyright
laws. For every song there was an herb, and it
was believed that it was the song that made the
medicine effective. Here is a part of an Apache
medicine song as recorded in the I ndian Boole by
Natalie Curtis.

 

Songs were sung only on occasions for which
they were intended. An Indian would not sing a

 

It's great fun to make and decorate an
Indian drum. and there's a feeling of
real achievement associated with it!

hunting song unless he
were going hunting, or
a love song unless he
were wooing his belov-
ed. And he would not
sing a song he purchas-
ed from another with-
out giving due credit to
the source of the song.

  
   

Dancing among the I
Indians was always as-
sociated with their cere-
monies, each dance hav-
ing its special purpose:
to celebrate a victory in
war; to mark the end of ‘
a bereavement; to call
_ on nature for good
 crops, for rain, and for

the animals they needed
for food. During the nature
dances they usually imitated
the birds and beasts. With
the passing of time dancing
has become more and more a social activity among
the Indians, and the custom of using dances only
in connection with ceremonies is fast dying out. In
spite of this, however, the ceremonial dances are
still used in celebration of special events and con-
tinue to be handed down as tradition to the
younger generation of Indians.

 

 

These dances and ceremonies are colorful and
make good dramatic material for the recreation
program. We recreation workers should be rea-
sonably sure of the authenticity of the music and
dances we use in our Indian projects. Every dance
has its definite step and rhythm. The steps of a
war dance, for example, are different from those
of a rain dance and should not be confused with
them. Helpful information on the dances and cere-
monies of the Indian will be found in The Rhythm
of the Redman by Julia M. Buttree. Here is the -
music of the Moon Dance taken in part from Miss
Buttree’s fine study. Notice how frequently the
time signature changes in this dance. One of the
interesting facts about Indian dances is that the
time signature rarely remains the same throughout.

 

(Continued on page 473)

Recreation Centers for Indians

ECREATION, as such, was not
R a problem to the aboriginal

American Indians. Life
was not then sharply divided into segments de-
voted to Work, Play, and Religion, as it is today.
In a primitive hunting or agricultural group, the
three merged until the lines of division were
almost indistinguishable. Especially did religion
play a larger part, so that many of the activi-
ties which today are considered solely recrea-
ational, such as dancing and singing, were then
a part of religious ritual. Furthermore, Indians
‘as a whole like to be with others, to do things
together, whether it be working, playing or pray-
ing. The Indian life of the old days was very
full indeed; from dawn to dark and after there
was a succession of patterned activities: hunting,
ceremonies, meetings of the tribal council, clan
activities, meetings of the secret societies, races,
archery competitions, and feasts.

Then, when the coming of the white man and
the reservation system broke up the old patterns
of Indian occupations and religions, the recrea-
tional pattern, so closely woven in
with the rest, also disappeared.
The whole machinery of Indian

. Communi-
11fe was thrown out of gear. Pov- iy

By MARY KING ROWELL
Waynesboro. Pennsylvania

The Tonawanda Reservation
Cen’rer. built by
WPAl maintained by NewYork

erty took the place of abund—
ance, and leisure took the place
of work. The Indian sought for-
getfulness of his plight in the liquor bottle, in
ceaseless gambling games, in pool rooms, taverns,
dance halls, cheap movies which dotted the sur-
roundings of the reservation. Country fairs, camp
meetings, revivals, and rodeos took the place of
the old religious ceremonial gatherings. That was
all, lots of time in which to do nothing, and no
reason to employ it to build for the future.
During this time, when perhaps recreation of a
healthful and satisfying sort would have helped
to introduce the Indian to the white man’s ways,
the government and other interested agencies were

» very soberly absorbed in the problems of food,

shelter, clothing and land, the barest necessities of
Indian life. To them, as to many people in modern
American society, “recreation” was far down on
the list of the vital necessities of life, if it were to
be allowed a place on that list at all.

Organized recreation centers on Indian reser-
vations, therefore, are for the most part fairly
recent. On some Indian reservations
there are new modern buildings to
house recreation activities, as well
as some traditional crafts and

S'l'a‘l'e Social Welfare Dept.

 

’ b

. .._.
¢  ~
'  ‘_ _ '

C ourtew Work Project: Administration

43

F

D

436 RECREATION CENTERS FOR INDIANS

native ball games. On other reservations the day
schools also carry the burden of adult recreation.

A survey has been made of twelve of these
recreation centers located on different Indian
reservations throughout the country. The pur-
pose was to see what these centers offered to the
Indian community, what sort of a need they iilled
in their community, and also what they lacked.
The centers surveyed were: the Tonawanda Com-
munity Building, Tonawanda Indian Reservation,
near Akron, New York; the Brighton Day School,
Seminole Indian Reservation, Brighton, Florida;
the Cherokee Community Center, Cherokee Indian
Reservation, North Carolina; the Papago Com-
munity Center, . Sells, Arizona; The Onondaga
Youth Center, Onondaga Reservation, near Syra-
cuse, New York; the St. Regis Reservation Cen-
ter, near Hogansburg, New York; the Choctaw-
Chickasaw Center, Oklahoma; the Pamunkey
Community House, Pamunkey reservation, near
West Point, Virginia; the Reserve Community
and the New Post Community Building, both on
LacCourte Oreilles Reservation in Wisconsin; the
Odanah Community Building, Bad River Reser-
vation, Wisconsin; and the Lac du Flambeau In-
dian Day School, Lac du Flambeau Reservation,
Wisconsin.

Native Leadership

Perhaps the most significant fact revealed in
the survey was that of these twelve community
centers, seven were under all-Indian management.
That is, the activities and programs of the center
are subject to the rulings of a committee or board
of Indians who are members of the reservation,
even though white people may be employed in
some capacities at the center. This high percen-
age of Indian managements is compatible with the
avowed policy of the government to put Indians
in positions in Indian reservations wherever pos-
sible, and develop native leadership.

As to activities, athletics, of course, comes first,
with arts and crafts a close second. Dancing (In-
dian and otherwise) is third, and home economics
(sewing and cooking classes) fourth. One of the
new activities, especially in a grazing country, is
furnishing livestock and supervising its care. In
only two of the centers are there community
shower rooms, seemingly rather a small number,
as most Indian reservations have no running wa-
ter in the homes, and on the Tonawanda reserva-
tion in New York the showers were among the
most used of all the facilities in the community

building. On three of the reservations there was
a‘ periodical published from the community center.
Movie facilities are present on live of the twelve.

It is interesting to note that on none of the res—
ervations were such pastimes as card games, either
bridge, whist, live—hundred, or others, mentioned,
nor were there chess, checkers, dominoes, parchesi,
or any other of the several score games of that
type available commercially. Leaders of Indian
recreation activities seem to have found that the
athletics are dearest to the Indian heart, that he
loves to dress up and dance and sing and have
feasts and “get-togethers” on the slightest provo-
cation, that he will stake his possessions on the fall
of a die, but that he probably won’t care very
much for a quite sedentary game of chess, or
bridge, or anything else that requires a great deal
of studious concentration.

In general, the presence of an organized recrea-
tion center on a reservation presupposes a degree
of economic advancement in the white man’s way .
to the point where leisure time becomes available. '
It is evident that fundamental problems of edu-
cation, livelihood, even political organization,
probably should come before purely recreational '
considerations. On the other hand, many times, on
Indian reservations, the recreational activities and
the community development programs merge so
that it is difficult to separate them. For example,
to most of us the making of pottery or baskets I
comes under the heading of hobbies, of leisure-
time activities. To many Indian women these
activities are carried on in leisure time, to be sure,
but they serve an economic purpose in that the
objects are offered for sale, with the money going
to the family fund. Club organization is gener-
ally included as “recreation” pure and simple in
our European society, yet in these Indian com—
munity centers clubs such as the 4-H, Scouts, and
others stress gardening projects, home improve-
ment, and other programs more educational than
recreational. Therefore it cannot be said dogmati—
cally, that economic advancement must necessarily
come before an organized community recreation
program, for the latter may effectively lay the
foundation for community economic progress.

Many different agencies are involved in recrea-
tion programs on Indian reservations. On many
reservations, as has been pointed out,’ the only
community centers are the schools. On others, the
matter is handled to some degree by the churches.
Recently the Indian Division of the Civilian Con-
servation Corps has become active in the recrea-

 

RECREATION CENTERS FOR INDIANS 437

tion field in two ways—constructing facilities for
Indian communities at large, and providing facili-
ties in the camps for its own employees.

Another agency of the government which has
widespread importance in Indian country is the
National Youth Administration. In every state in
which there is a large Indian population there is
an active NYA program to help the young people
of the reservation to find themselves. The United
States Department of Agriculture, which usually
cloaks its activities under the less formidable title
of the 4-H Clubs, is another agency of ever-in-
creasing significance. In many of the states with
large Indian groups, its agents cooperate with the
extension service of the various agricultural col-
leges to offer the 4-H Club program to Indian
young people.

As one might expect, it has been found that
organized recreation facilities for Indian reserva-
tions, to be effective, must spring from a definite
and fundamental need within the Indian society,
and not be superimposed from the outside. At
many of the centers it has been noticed that those
projects thrive most healthily which were con-
ceived and carried out by Indians for Indians. It
has been found time and time again that if the
people of a reservation want a community center
recreation program enough, as did the young peo-
ple of St. Regis in New York, for example, they
will establish one for themselves. If, on the other
hand, they do not want one, as in Pamunkey in
Virginia, a community building will stand unfin-
ished and unused, with the paper hanging in tat-
ters from the unfinished framework.

For many Indians the question of economic de-
velopment involves learning to live like white men
in certain respects. In this connection the com-
munity house, or the school as a community cen-
ter, should provide opportunities for the Indians
to familiarize themselves with the the white man’s
showers, laundries, and other sanitary facilities
which can then be copied as well as possible in the
home. Classes in cooking, sewing, gardening, and
live-stock raising will provide starting points for
improving food, clothing, and income.

Although only four of the twelve recreation -

centers considered here had a library, it would
seem that this is a very important function of any
community center on an Indian reservation, for
there, far from the conveniences of city areas, the
Only available place for a collection of new and
important books might well be the center. Perhaps
it was felt that the schools could provide for the

reading needs of the Indian community, but gen-
erally schools have-only the books needed for the
textbooks and required reading for the children;
and school teachers, especially on Indian reserva-
tions, lack the time and energy to institute a cam-
paign to make reading more attractive to teen age
youngsters and to adults.

The American Indian of today is in a precarious
position of transition; he has lost the traditional
activities of the old days, in which every waking
moment brought its own activities, and he has not
yet become accustomed to the ,interest-habits of
the white world. To too many Indians “recrea-
tion” means simply filling in large gaps in time
with anything at all. The problem of Indian rec-
reation is shared by all the states in the country
which have an Indian population, either on actual
reservations, or on traditionally Indian-held lands.
It is a rural problem, both because there are more
rural Indians, and also because they do not have
the same advantages as do city Indians.

Lacking the facilities of a recreation center, and
except for the organizations like the 4-H clubs,
the Indian cannot benefit from organized pro-
grams available in the cities through hobby clubs,
commercial amusement places concert halls, and
the like. On the reservations, far from large set-
tlements, the recreation center must be all of these
and more—the social and economic heart of the
community life.

It is well for us to remind ourselves from time
to time of the activities of the federal govern-
ment in behalf of the Indians. The Office of In-
dian Affairs, under the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior, has responsibility for the manage-
ment of all Indian Affairs and of all matters aris-
ing out of Indian relations. These include the
economic development of the Indians, both tri-
bally and as individuals.

The Office is responsible for the operation of
boarding and day schools, and of community cen-
ters for adult as well as juvenile education, and
guides to supervise the education of 36,000 Indian
children in public schools. The operation of hos-
pitals and other activities for the improvement of

,health and sanitation on the reservations is also

under the direction of this office.

In 1935, the Indian Arts and Crafts Board was
created in the Department of the Interior to estab-
lish standards and create government marks of
genuinehess and quality for Indian handmade
products.

What They Say About Recreation

rich in the elements from which to weave

a culture. We have the best of man’s past
on which to draw, brought to us by our native folk
and folk from all parts of the world. In binding
these elements into a national fabric of beauty and
strength let us keep the original fibers so intact
that the lineness of each will show in the com-
pleted handiwork.”—Franklin Delano Roosevelt.

"WE IN THE UNITED STATES are amazingly

“At this time, education’s most important con-
tribution to national defense is the building of
the morale of our young citizens.”—Graharn.

“Play and joy make good companions, because
when a game is pursued for its own sake, with no
end in view but the game itself, the element of joy
is usually present. . . . America needs to cultivate
and retain the play element in games and keep the
spirit of joy in competition.”—Alice A. Sefton in
The W omen’s Division, N .A.A.F .

“\Ve may not be able to determine the degree of
success we can attain in the fulfillment of our
purposes. But we can at least make sure of the
quality of living with which we attack the task
that comes to us each day.”—G. C. Einmons.

“The planning of the use of our resources in the
national parks is not based on the greatest num—
ber of dollars which may be taken off the land,
but is based upon the amount of mental and phy-
sical up-building it will produce.” -—Frank A.
Kittredge in American Planning and Civic Annual.

“Recreation contributes directly to the physical
and mental health of those who participate in its
various forms. Good health and intelligent recre-
ation complement each other; for without the
former, recreation cannot be fully enjoyed, and
without some systematic form of recreation one is
not likely to remain in the best of health.”——From
Florida Parks and Recreation.

“Through membership and leadership, boys and
girls may learn what democratic living is, not by
talking about it but by living it, by having it be-
come a part of themselves.”—Collins and C assidy
in Physical Education in the Secondary School.

438

  
 
 
  
    
    
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  

“W e have some things in this country which ar
infinitely precious and especially American —
love of freedom, a feeling for the equality of op
portunity, a tradition of self-reliance and ind
pendence and also of cooperation.”—Henry
Luce in The American Mercury.

“Through the development of manipulati

couraging social understanding. People who enjo
working with their hands and creating from m
terials not only enrich the art phase of our cu
ture, but in doing this reach common understan
ings. In this sense manipulative skills can be sai
to contribute to democracy.”—George M. Gloss.

“Maintaining the standard of living, trying t
keep life as sound and as line-as it can be, an
trying to improve it is part of our work alon

with defense.”——Lillie M. Peck.

“The anonymous freedom which modern con-
ditions give the individual creates new problem
for social control and makes more necessary th
supervision of many forms of recreation. Thos
agencies, both public and private, which provide
wholesome opportunities for. study and play of
one type or another, protect the community a
well as individual” children from costly and per
haps disastrous social experiences.”—Cheney C.
Jones in Social Work Year Book, 1941.

“Provision for leisure is as necessary to com-
munity well-being as education, care and mainte
nance of the needy, or any of the other underly
ing services which constitute the underpinnin
structure of an organized community.”.—The

Honolulu Plan.

“Today art is recognized as anoimportant phase
of everyday life. It now plays a greater role in!
the activities of the average man, woman, and
child than it ever did when confined within the-
galleries. Modern education, recognizing the im-'
portance of art in everyday living, endeavors to.
promote the use and enjoyment of ‘art without
frames.’ ”-—From Art Without Frames, produced
by the Senior Class of 1940, Pratt Institute.

Facilities Available to Colored Citizens

 

ll RE ADEQUATE recreation facilities available

A in your community for the use of colored
people?”

This pertinent question was listed for considera-
tion during the past year at recreation conferences
throughout the United States. Of course the ques-
tion involves the interpretation of such words as
“adequate” and “available,” but the statement as
a whole brings a serious problem to the forefront
in recreational planning.

Today, we live in an acting rather than a talking
world. This article, therefore, invites a recital of
how difficult situations in many communities have
been overcome and needed recreation facilities
provided through community action!

The number of communities served by the Bu—
reau of Colored Work of the National Recreation
Association began multiplying shortly after the

World War, some two decades ago. The Bureau’s

p director stated at that time: “War Camp Com—
| munity Service, the war-time recreation program

directed by the National Recreation Association,
awakened many communities to their recreational

l needs and particularly to the fact that, for the

colored soldier, the facilities were, at first, zero.”
The return to peace found the average colored

By
E. TEN EYCK

Lincoln Center. in
Troy. Ohio, is out-
standing among the
recreation centers
for colored citizens
in smaller communi-
ties of the country

residential section, urban and rural, lacking in any
type of provision that could be said to approach
adequacy. In many cities, of course, there is still
evidence of backwardness in caring for the recrea—
tional needs of any citizens, young or old, white or
colored, native or foreign-born. But current trends
show gradual recognition of a community respon-
sibility to provide safe, attractive facilities for the
wholesome recreation of children, young people
and adults as a means of building morale and
thereby rendering a service to itself. Crime bills
and public health worries, social ignorance and the
need for worth-while, loyal citizens are good rea-
sons for investment in wholesome recreation op—
portunities. "

Any recreation program has several elemental re-
quirements similar to other basic community agen-
cies, such as schools, churches, or industrial organ—
izations. These involve a need for leadership, pro—
gram, and facilities. Developments in facilities for
colored citizens have come along more slowly than

-in the other fundamentals. Here and there, how-

ever, a community discovers that the colored citi—
zen’s imagination does not excel that of other
races when it comes to shelter houses and play
fields! Dramatize as they will, no substitute satis—

439

440 FACILITIES AVAILABLE TO COLORED CITIZENS

factorily takes the place of a regulation ball dia-
mond, a year-round building for indoor assembly
and games, and a platform or stage for acting.
The colored leader has had a difficult time con-
vincing his economically stronger brother in the
“majority” group, or those who control tax fund
expenditures in his town, that adequate facilities
are real needs in his effort to keep wholesome

recreation p0pular.

Recreation Facilities Increasing

The past year has witnessed a new interest on
the part of municipal departments in the acquisi-
tion of recreation facilities. This development pre-
ceded the plans announced for community center
“huts” and service club buildings for men in U. S.
army and navy uniforms and for industrial de—
fense workers. As was true in the previous war,
there will be hundreds of thousands of young
colored men registered for military service; and
unless the training camps are conveniently close
to one of our regular centers, no community rec—
reation services or facilities will be available for
them. The dangers in such a situation are self-
evident.

Not all army groups will be as fortunate as the
all-colored army unit at Fort Ontario which is
near Syracuse, New York, home of the Dunbar
Center. This building, a former church, has been
completely remodeled and is now a first-class rec-
reation building whose functional design is out-
standing. Not only does the center lend itself to
social recreation activities, but its revamped in-

terior offers facilities for games, recreational. ath-'

letics, drama, music, crafts, and men’s and women’s
club organizations.

Another outstanding center is that of the Doug—
lass Community Association of Kalamazoo, Mich—
igan, an outgrowth of one of the service centers
for colored soldiers developed by the War Camp
Community Service during the last World War.
As a result of their experiences with this war-
time center, white and colored leaders in Kalama-
zoo became aware of the normal recreational needs
of the colored citizens? As the .program developed
the old rented quarters were found inadequate,
and, except as a sentimental rallying point, were a
poor investment even as a shelter. The city was
asked to sponsor a W.P.A. building project which
would not. only provide a public building but
would also house the Douglass Center recreation
program. Funds from an interested citizenry were
presented to the city, land was dedicated, and a

building erected which is outstanding in the state
as an artistic and attractive recreation center. The
structure and land are valued at well over $75,000.
It is a combination gym-assembly room type in
design, with club, reading and game rooms. In-
terior decorations and furniture equipment are
very impressive. The center is administered by a
community organization, bi-racial in character,
with the highest type of citizen leadership and a
trained director.

The building was dedicated February 16th of
this year with the director of the Bureau of Col-
ored Work of the National Recreation Associa-
tion as the dedicatory speaker. The Mayor, local
and federal representatives, and a “standing-room
only” crowd attended. There have been many con-
ferences and discussions by interracial committees
and commissions, but here, at the JKalamazoo dedi- l
cation, was~ racial amity in action—a concrete
demonstration of neighborliness memoralized in
brick and mortar.

The Frederick Douglass Community Center in
Toledo, Ohio, is a building of somewhat larger
dimensions. The need for a recreation center in
this city was recognized some nineteen years ago
by the late Albertus Brown. Mr. Brown was a
prominent Negro lawyer whose contact with the
law made him realize the lack of wholesome oppor—
tunities for young people and its unfortunate re—

'sults in his town. The National Recreation Asso-

ciation and other national agencies focused their
attention on this center’s program and cooperated
with it. The ' entire population of Toledo has
access to the Douglass Center facilities but its loca—
tiOn best serves the seven thousand colored citizens

.in that section.

One of the smaller communities, Troy, Ohio,
(see page 439) has perhaps furnished the most
complete'example of “men of good-will” and rec—
reation. In an initial visit by a representative of
the Bureau of Colored Work, the interested col-
ored leaders were told that if they really wanted
a building to house the Lincoln Center activities,
the primary requisite would be that they “love
each other for ninety days.” This, in order to
convince the community that they were in earnest
and willing to sacrifice to secure a building! The
suggested spiritual formula was adhered to and,
as a result, they have a $50,000 plant providing
year-round recreational Opportunities including in-
door swimming, gymnasium-auditorium, reading
room, craft and club rooms. Not only did the
president of a great manufacturing company, with

FACILITIES AVAILABLE TO COLORED CITIZENS 441

his wife, cooperate in securing land and equip-
ment but the sponsoring Park Department, the
Board of Education, City Council, PWA and
local citizens all made some contribution to the
project which now is a show place in recreation
center buildings for a city of its size.

It is impossible in this article to list the many
other buildings, some of larger type developed in
areas of concentration of colored citizens in such
cities as Detroit, Michigan, with its center valued
at over $400,000; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, with
a structure and layout estimated at $288,000; and
the outdoor swimming pools of tremendous cost
and dimensions in Chicago and elsewhere. Men-
tion should be made of the community buildings
and recreation provision developed as a part of
low-cost housing projects in cities all over the
nation. In projects allocated to colored tenants,
recreation or community buildings available to all
in the area whether housing tenants or otherwise
have been a sort of civic blessing! outstanding
facilities of this type are located in Columbus,
Ohio; Cincinnati, Ohio; Louisville, Kentucky, and
Birmingham, Alabama. In these cities the project
provided the building, the city government,
through its park or recreation department, sup—
plied the leadership for such activities as usually
obtain in recreation centers. .The Louisville and
the Birmingham planning offer line examples of
cooperative methods and splendid functional de-
sign of facilities embodied in
housing units.

Douglass Center. Kalamazoo. Michigan.

With increased recognition of the wisdom of
city planning and with the increasing receptivity
of school boards to professional recommendations
for modern rather than traditional design in public
school buildings and for more adequate space
standards in school sites, there may later be more
to report in many neighborhoods still neglected so
far as provision for play activities are concerned.
The lack of these modern considerations is still
a problem and a defect in neighborhoods and city
districts, particularly where colored people live.

Park and Outdoor Recreation Areas

In the provision of camp facilities, now an
important activity on the recreation horizon, there
has been a beginning in the supplying of public
recreation areas controlled by the state, county
and federal governments which serve also the re-
quirements of colored citizens. The Division of
Negro Activities, United States Travel Bureau,
recently provided information covering the state
park and Other recreation areas. The statement is
not embodied here in full but excerpts from the
public record as to these areas are employed' with
necessary condensation.

The statement reports no state-owned recrea-
tion areas yet developed for colored citizens in
Alabama. However, there are three federal areas:
the VVilborn Picnic Area, the McIntosh Dam Area
in the Tuskegee Resettlement Area, and a 70-acre

area near Wilson Dam at
TVA Nitrate Plant Reserva-

artistic and attractive in every way

“Cf-'- - w . - ,- - _, .  ... _ - c _ .
., . _ .‘9 >. ' _
- - ‘ ._‘. " - ' ,
x '-

 

; .n
a‘_",.5¢.x-.+
.n .--.

 

442 FACILITIES AVAILABLE TO COLORED CITIZENS

tion No. 2. Wilson Dam is just east of Florence,
Alabama.

The Arkansas State Park Commission reported
that the Watson State Park located seven miles
northwest of Pine Bluff was being developed by
N Y A workers as a recreation area for Negroes of
Arkansas. This park, which has an area of a hun-
dred acres, was donated by Dr. J. B. Watson,
President of the A. M. and N. College at Pine
Bluff. Picnicking, group camping, softball, base-
ball, and playfields are facilities and activities
which are being provided at Watson State Park.

Patterson Lake in the northeast Mississippi
Land Use Project is an artificial lake of about
twenty-eight acres stocked with fish and equipped
for swimming and boating. The developments on
the project include a bath house and a pavilion.
The State Park Board is cooperating in the de-
velopment of a recreation area, located approxi-
mately twelve miles from Jackson, Mississippi, on
' property belonging to the town of Clinton. A
picnic area, on the Natchez Trace Parkway, near
Jackson, is being developed.

Jones Lake, a 230 acre recreation area in North
Carolina, is maintained and operated for colored
people. On this natural lake are excellent oppor—
tunities for bathing, boating and other water
sports. Jones Lake is located in Bladen County
near Elizabethtown. A large modern bath house,
a board walk and a sand beach are included in
the bathing area. Life guards are always on duty
during the summer season. Outdoor fireplaces,
shelters, tables and benches are available. There
is also available an organized camp in the western
part of North Carolina at the Crabtree Creek
Recreation Demonstration Area.

The Oklahoma Planning and Resources Board,
Division of State Parks, has developed an orga-
nized camp available to Negroes at Lake Murray
State Park near Ardmore, Oklahoma. The camp is
constructed in accordance with the standards for
organized youth camps as set up by the National
Park Service. The capacity of the camp is seventy—
two campers. One season the camp was leased for
the ten weeks’ summer season to the Oklahoma
Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs, and they
in turn subleased to various organized groups in
Oklahoma and Texas.

In the State of South Carolina, the northern end
of the 5,000 acre state park property comprising
all of Hunting Island, off Beaufort, has been set
aside as a Negro State Park. The State Commis-
sion of Forestry has set aside a very desirable

  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
 
 
  
 

portion of the Greenwood State Park as a par
facility for colored people. Assistant State Foreste
suggests: "If we are able to operate these tw
parks in a satisfactory and economical manner
other sections will provide suitable areas an
ways and means will be found to finance the opera
tion of additional parks.”

The Booker T. Washington State Park fo
Negroes, as the U. S. Travel Bureau reports, i
being developed by the State of Tennessee 0
property leased from the TVA. This park co
prises 3 50 acres of land on the southeast shore
Chickamauga Lake, about eight miles from Chatt
nooga. It is located near a large and concentrate
urban Negro population for whom it will provid
a day-outing area, a group-camp area, and faciliti
for swimming and boating. This will comprise a
unusual and outstanding recreational area'availabl
not only to all sections of the State of Tennesse
but to large sections of adjacent states as wel

ing facilities for boats on Chickamauga reservoi
owned by colored people; trails for hiking an
riding; fishing; an amphitheatre; a playfiel‘d Wit
baseball diamond; cabins; and general group ca
facilities. The writer went over this land site wi
TVA oflicials in the initial stages of the Admi1

istration’s planning of the property for recreatio
purposes.

Shelby Negro State Park, near Memphis, Te
nessee, is being developed to include playfield

playgrounds, foot trails, amphitheatre, bath hou
and swimming pool.

In the Jefferson National Forest between Lex—
ington and Clifton Forge, Virginia, is located
Green Pastures Recreational Area. This area afl
fords picknicking, swimming, camping, and gel]:-
eral outdoor recreation facilities. The area is op-
erated by the United States Forest Service and is
open free to thepublic, subject to certain regula-
tions. There are no cabins for rent at Green Pal.-
tures Recreation Area, but tent and trailer camp-
ing facilities are provided to a limited extent. .

At the Recreation Demonstration Area, Chopa-
wamsic, Virginia, an organized camp has beeln
established and on the Blue Ridge Parkway, south
of Roanoke a recently completed picnic area was
developed to provide Negro recreation. The Lewis
Mountain area along the Skyline Drive, Shenan-

(Continued on page 473)

. RecreatiOn Advances in Kansas City

ITI-I THE strong sup-
 port of the new city

administration, pub-
lic recreation in Kansas City,
Missouri, has been reorgan—
ized and its scope has been
greatly enlarged. In accord-
ance with the municipal charter, responsibility for
the program is vested in the Division of Recrea-
tion of the \Nelfare Department, but close cooper-
ation is given by the Park Department and the
'Board of Education. Dr. Hayes A. Richardson,
Director of Welfare, is enthusiastic in encouraging
the expansion and improvement of the recreation
service.

For a few years prior to April 1940, the city’s
ecreation program had been cooperatively carried
[)ut by the Park Department and the Board of
Education with the backing of a citizen’s recrea-
tion committee affiliated with the Council of Social
Agencies. This policy was continued in the sum-
mer of 1940, but the Citizen’s Committee was
supplanted by a Mayor’s Advisory Committee on
Recreation. As in previous years, the Board of
Park Commissioners made available playgrounds,
ball diamonds and other facilities for the summer
program. It appropriated $25,000 to conduct the
summer program on the playgrounds and at the
swimming pools. The Recreation Division of the
\Velfare Department appropriated $20,000 for
public music in the parks, and the Board of Edu-
cation contributed salary costs of $2,250. Les L.
\Varren, Supervisor of Recreation and Community
Use of Schools, was in charge. Thirty-two sum-
mer playgrounds were operated, an increase of
eleven over 1939. The city—paid staff was supple-
mented by 109 VVPA recreation workers.

In addition to the playgrounds, eleven baseball
diamonds, two golf courses, two indoor and three
outdoor swimming pools, fifteen wading pools,
twelve horseshoe courts, eight softball diamonds,
I30 tennis courts, and seven
shuHieboard courts, virtually
all Park Department pr0perty,
were available in the summer
recreation program. The total
expenditure by the Park De-
partment and the Board of

of the city
Education for recreation dur-

the program

Kansas City reports progress in
its recreation developments and
promises a greatly expanded pro-
gram within the next few years.

In I940I Kansas City had thirty-two
playgrounds. In l94l, this number was
increased to titty-three and improve-
ments costing $42,000 were made.
It is planned ultimately to construct
a major recreation center in each
's twelve districts to which
IS

being extended.

ing the summer, exclusive
of general park functions,
was $27,833 of which
$19,640 was for personnel.

Beginning in September
1940, the Division of Recre-
ation of the Welfare De-
partment assumed charge, but the policy of co-
operation with other agencies was continued.
Starting on a small scale, the Division employed
four full-time workers for the remainder of the
1940 fiscal period and Operated seventeen after-
school playgrounds. In December, a new commis-
sioner, Glenn H. Park, was employed and plans
were made to operate six indoor recreation cen-
ters—one on School Board prOperty, two on Park
Board property, and three recreation buildings
operated by the Recreation Division of the Wel—
fare Department. Under this c00perative arrange—
ment three municipal departments collaborated
and during the year 1940 expended $66,283 for
organized recreation.

Further advances were made in 1941. After a
study of the city, the Recreation Division of the
Welfare Department made plans to develop its
community program through twelve districts, each
one to have ultimately a major recreation center
for year-round service. The Board of Park Com-
missioners completed the construction of a large
modern swimming pool in Swope Park, installed
lights at fourteen tennis courts, and almost doubled
the amount of new playground equipment for the
entire park system. Fifty-three supervised play-
grounds located both on park and school proper-
ties were operated for the 1941 summer season, or
twenty-one more than were conducted in 1940. In
addition to the usual playground program and the
band and orchestra concerts, a wide variety of
Special activities was promoted by the Recreation
Division during the summer, among them being
street dances, community sings, amateur radio
contests, and area fairs. The
community sings and street
dances proved especially popu-
lar and enjoyed a combined
attendance during the summer
of 61,450.

In order to carry 'on this

(Continued on page 468)
443

Bicycling’s Fun!

The bicycle started its amazing comeback
in I934. It is estimated that today there
are 9.000.000 wheels in the United S'I'a'lesI
about one to every three mo’ror cars, and
one to every fifteen population. This
means that cyclists are traveling far and
wide. and special bicycling trains are falc-
ing hundreds of these enthusiasts into the
country where they may enioy the sport
in safe‘l . For those who must stay in large
cities. bicycle trails are the answer to

traffic hazards. There are people, not
active cyclists themselves. who enioy look-
ing up the literature on the subiect.
And so bicycling's fun for many people!

The Bicycle Special

By ROBERT L. LUTTON
Los Angeles Playground and Recreation Department

UNDREDS OF PEOPLE everywhere, eventually
becoming weary of Sunday traffic jams and
gasoline permeated highways, are climbing
aboard bicycles and resorting to the side roads
and bypaths for their week-end fun and exercise.

Awakening from an obscurity of almost thirty
years, the bicycle is once more coming into its
own as a medium of transportation for recrea-
tional purposes, and public recreation depart-
ments are discovering that the encouragement and
promotion of this activity will help to Widen the
scope of individuals Who are contacted by the
municipal recreation service.

In Los Angeles, 1940 has been a big year as
far as recreational cycling is concerned. Early in
the spring a bicycle hesta attracted thousands of
spectators and, participants and provided an eye-
opening demonstration of the fact that large num-
bers of people are taking up bicycling as a sport.
The fiesta, held in the Rancho Cienega playground
stadium, offered the customary track races and

444

 

many feature events, one .of the most impressive
of which was a parade of cycles of many varie-
ties. Ancient high wheelers and even the old-
fashioned wooden wheel bicycles which were
pushed along by the application of feet against the
ground made their appearance in this surprising
display. .

With this program as a start the Los Angeles
Recreation Department, through its Municipal
Cycling Association, organized a number of Sun-
day rides in combination with picnicking and rac—
ing which immediately won popular favor. The
high point of the year’s activities was reached
When a special Santa Fé train was chartered one
Sunday late in August and steamed out of the
Los Angeles Union Station with nearly 400 cycl-
ing enthusiasts aboard bound for San Diego.
Made up of seven coaches, this special train also
carried a club car serving beverages, sandwiches,
candy, and periodicals, and three baggage caI‘S
chock full of stacked bicycles.

A half hour before the train left at 8:00 A. M.,
bicycle riders of every description began stream-
ing in with their wheels, eager for a day of fun.
Young people predominated, of course, but there
was a good proportion of middle—aged and elderly
folks and quite a few bicycle-riding families. In
a half hour of happy confusion the wheels were

 

. 31m. 

Courtesy Playground and Recreation Department, La: Angele:

j somehow all stacked away in the baggage cars with

i' the aid of many volunteer helpers, and the crowd

I was safely stowed away in the train ready for the
excursion to begin.

‘ The fun began the moment the train was under
way. Bridge games, group singing, picture tak-

: ing by amateur hobbyists, friendly greetings to

riders who had wheeled in to Los Angeles from

i distant points (one had ridden in 100 miles from

v Santa Barbara), and pow-wows of old-timers
brought together for the first time in years were

lI among some of the activities which kept the
throng occupied. Of course there were many peo-
ple enjoying not only their first bike ~train but

l their first train ride of any kind, and these just
sat and looked with wide open eyes.

. A self-appointed welcoming committee took
care of newcomers boarding the train at the vari-
ous towns en route, stops being made at Fullerton,
Santa Ana and Oceanside.

On arrival at San Diego, a famous Southern
California resort and Naval Station, bikes were
retrieved from the various baggage cars while a
Mexican Tipica Orchestra played native tunes
and a speech of welcome was given by the Mayor,

I Percy J. Benbough. General felicitations were

- exchanged, and then the invading army of cyclists,
augmented by a contingent recruited in San Diego,

 

The popularity of bicycling
extends From the Atlantic to
the Paci ic—lrom New Jersey

to California. You'll Find

the evidence in this article.

moved off under police escort through the down-
town streets of the city to Balboa Park, a distance
of six miles, with the parade stretching out over
four and a half blocks. A large bus was pro-
vided for those aboard the train who had not
taken their wheels along.

Under the famous elms of Balboa Park a bar-
becue lunch was served. This was a personal
triumph for the San Diego Recreation Depart-
ment and its Cycling Committee, as were all other
events arranged by them for the day. Amazed
onlookers gazed with interest at the stacked bi-
cycles standing row upon row on the green verges
and even hanging from trees—and with envy at
the plenteous supplies of appetizing food and cool
drinks.

Thoroughly refreshed, excursionists then rode
off to visit the zoo, with the line of cycles ex-
tending at times to nearly half a mile. Ambling
lazily around the beautiful grounds of this, the
finest zoological park in the West, an hour passed
all too quickly. One of the high points of the
visit was the opportunity to observe a new family
of baboons just brought to the United States and
exhibited for the first time in this country.

From this point the expedition was given two
alternatives: either to visit a nearby building in
which there was a curr_ent exhibition of hobbies,
or to go to a bicycle race track where a cycling
meet was to be held. Those who chose the hobby
exhibit were able to see all manner of “gadgets”
from a pocket cycle pump to a new type of saddle.
The contingent who went to the races enjoyed
themselves as contestants or spectators and were
able to see one of their number, three times ama-
teur champion of California, in an exhibition.

Finally, all converged at the American Legion
Hall in the park where, on one of the finest and

445

446

largest floors in the West, to the music of an
excellent band, dancing continued until dusk.
Soon afterward the return train ride was started,
with all hands present plus two extra riders who
had cycled down from Santa Monica. Much to
the SUrprise of everyone who expected to find a
tired out, sleepy crowd, the fun started all over
again and did not stop until the train reached
home at 9:00 o’clock in the evening. Farewells
were said, and the happy cyclists took themselves
off to their homes after having spent one of the
grandest days in their cycling “history” on a trip
that all agreed was worth repeating frequently.
The cost of the trip was only $2.50, of which
$2.00 covered the train fare and fifty cents helped
to take care of the lunch and other incidental
expenses. Responsibilities were shared between
the Los Angeles and San Diego Recreation De-
partments and the Cycling Committees of both
cities, while the Santa Fé Railroad cooperated in
publicity arrangements. A new all time “cycling
record” was established when, even though wheels
were loaded sidewise, frontwards and backwards
in the baggage cars, not a single one was scratched l

A Bicycle Rodeo

By LORNE C. RICKERT
Superintendent of Recreation
Ocean City' N. J.

K

HE AVERAGE 130v likes to do stunts with his
bicycle. This includes anything from riding
no hands and standing up on the saddleto riding
backwards—all of them conceded to be unsafe
practices. Perhaps it is the old frontier spirit
which gives most boys an urge to “bite the dust,”
or see how close they can get to it. In any event,
the bicycle rodeo at Ocean City, New Jersey, had
all the “Wild West” fiavor imaginable.
The bicycle rodeo at Ocean City, New Jersey,
was conducted as a special

BICYCLING’S FUN!

a climax to the season’s activities of this boys
biking club.

a

Safety First !

Both the sponsoring committee of the Rotar
Club and the Recreation Center, who were part
ners in conducting the event, were eager to mak
the contest safe without diluting the events to
much and taking the spice out of the affair. Be
sides the hazards of having highly-excited boy
darting through city streets and taking corners a
breakneck speed, there was considerable dange
of accidents through “bunching” on the turns an
crowding. '

These dangers were both eliminated in the rodeo
and the morning’s fun was conducted without
single accident or mishap. All the events wer
held on the Recreation Center’s athletic field. I
the individual event, the Steeplechase, the dan
gers of bunching and crowding were eliminate
through staggered starts. There were never mor
than three on the course at a time, with a separat
stop watch and timekeeper for each boy. It was
race against time, yet the fact that there were
several on the comse at a time gave each boy the
stimulus of direct competition. The course itself,
which is described later, contained all the chal-
lenge needed to make the participants feel they
were “taking it.” '

 

A Bike Rally

As a special feature of the rodeo, a Cycle Trades
of America representative, a former six-day bike
rider, was able to be in our city the evening before
the contest to appear at a bike rally, to which all
those in the rodeo were invited, with the Satur-
day Morning Bikers as hosts and the Hikerettes,
a girls’ hiking club, as special guests. A picture
review of the hosts’ activities greeted the bike
busters on their arrival at the rally, and the Hik-
erettes showed what they could do in building

model campfires.
Where you could go and

feature of National Youth
Week, sponsored by the
Rotary Club. Organized bik-
ing has enjoyed considerable
popularity in this beach re-
sort, with a summer “Break-
fast Bikers’ Club” for adults,
and a flourishing “Saturday
Morning Bikers” club for
boys. The rodeo was to be

Since I932 the number of bicycle deaths
has doubled; in I939 seven hundred fa-
talities resulted from bicycle-automo-
bile collisions. Safety education is
recognized as one of the most vital fac-
tors in cutting down these cycling
casualties. Recreation leaders in Ocean
City. New Jersey. have found a painless
method of safety instruction at the Bi-
cycle Rodeo where stunt-loving young-
sters can combine thrills with safety.

what you could do in recrea-
tion with a bicycle was the
theme note, with the latest in
touring models from several
different countries displayed
by a local bike dealer in the
hallway leading to the audi-
torium, where a movie on
hosteling was shown.

Safety was a prominent

._-A - -4 ‘

BICYCLING’S FUN! 447

feature of the rally with a safety
f‘llITl focussing attention on the
right and wrong way to ride
through traffic. The director of
recreation gave a brief review of
lthe six hazards to be found along
x the steeplechase course the fol-
llowing day, telling of the possi-
ble dangers and'how to avoid
‘them. The other features of the
rodeo, the team potato relay and
the slow race, were also ex-
lplained. Enthusiasm was thus
pointed toward the following
.day’s events. Through this pre-
liminary instruction contestants
knew what to do at the rodeo
‘next day, and much of the con-
fusion often attending such events
was thus eliminated.

A great deal of organization was required to
facilitate the events. Each contestant was given a
number at the rally to pin on at the rodeo next
day, as an aid in scoring and to enable the an—
nouncer to follow the rider’s progress over the
amplifying system. This also gave the boys a
'feeling that they were entered in a “big time”
feature.

 

The Rodeo Program

Scoring. Boys fourteen years old and under
«were eligible to compete. To permit expression of
the team spirit prevailing among boys of that age,
team as well as individual prizes were given. Boys
could enter with a team or “unattached.” The
events were a team potato relay, a slow race, and
the steeplechase, which was the feature event.
Each team could enter not over three in each
event, with a team of four in the team potato
relay. Not over eight were permitted on a team.
Scoring was on a 5 - 3 — I basis.

Team Potato Relay. Each team lines up in relay
formation with a potato for each team member
placed at the far end of the field. The first team to
carry its potatoes back one at a time and place
them in its box wins.

Slow Race. About thirty yards is a good dis—
tance for this event. A hard-surfaced area is per-
haps the most suitable, with five-foot lanes marked
out for each contestant. The lanes are important
to keep the contestants from interfering with one

 

A tense moment in the Slow Race, one of
the events in the Bicycle Rodeo program

another and to prevent undue curving, which in—
creases the distance. Any contestant “touching”
( putting his foot to the ground) is disqualified.
Last to cross the line wins. The slow race has
possibilities for humor.

Steeplechase. Six hazards are arranged along
the course, which is a little over a quarter mile
long. Each hazard is numbered and appropriate
signs adding to the spirit are placed along the
way. The ground should be quite rough. This
adds a broncho touch, cuts down the contestants’
speed, and makes for greater safety. Stakes and
ropes are placed along both sides of each hazard
to make sure every rider goes through the desig-
nated area. The following hazards are used:

(1) Low Bridge—Two uprights about four
feet apart, with evergreen branches placed so low
rider must duck to get through. Sign—“Low
Bridge Ahead.” '

(2) Balloon Barrage—Two rows of balloons
about three feet off the ground on ropes about
eighteen or twenty feet long, fastened so that con-
siderable skill is required to go through without
breaking them.

(3) Breakers—A roped-off area with a maze
of rocks placed about in such a way that the rider
must wind his way through. Sign—“Breakers
Ahead,” placed near the hazard.

(4) Hurdle—A ramp about four feet high.

448 BICYCLING’S FUN!

Make sure the up and down grades are not too
steep, or the pedals will fail to clear the hump.
A strong, wooden rail must be placed along the
ramplas well as the up and down grade for safety.
The approach should be over a roped-off path
about four feet wide. This will result in a straight
course to the hurdle, making it less difficult for the
rider to take it safely. If the course is laid out
in such a way that a turn must be made just be-
fore the rider enters the approach, his speed will
be reduced to the desired rate.

(5) Sand Trap—This should be placed just
beyond the hurdle, with a sign, “Sand Trap,”
near by. There should be enough loose sand there
to make it possible, but difficult, to get through
without dismounting.

(6) Bushwhacker—Place two rows of bushes
about fifteen feet long, four or five feet apart, with
the branches interlacing. A concealed garden hose
with a Spray nozzle is placed in the bushes and the
rider is given a mild ducking as a parting shot.

(7) To the Finish Line—The course “from the
last hazard to the finish line is a loose cinder track
where traction is poor and little speed possible.

The contestants felt they had gone through a
grind when they finished. To them it was as much
a question of stamina and bicycling skill as of
speed. No racing or small tire bikes were entered.
The course was designed for the average boy’s
stock balloon tire bicycle.

The course should be thoroughly tried out be—
forehand. If carefully laid out, sponsors of the
event can cut down the speed to a desired rate in
various ways. We accomplished it through the
use of caution signs, a bumpy course, curve fol—
lowed by a short approach, and sand and loose dirt.

Combining Daring with Safety

The sponsors felt that the rodeo was eminently
successful, since it combined thrills and bicycle
daring with safety, and satisfied every boy’s basic
desire for doing stunts with his bicycle. Safety
was taught the contestants without their feeling
too conscious of it. Bicycles are ordinarily not
permitted on the grounds.
Perhaps the opportunity to
come in and put wheels
through the paces once a
year will make for more
safety both on the grounds
and in the streets during
other times.

Completed bicycle paths are now taking
thousands of New York City's "cliff-dwell-
ing" boys. girls, and adults out into the
openl giving them healthful exercise that
is also safe. Other communities through-
out the country, growing more conscious of
their own bicycling problems. are watching
the New York experiment with interest.

Bicycle Highways

NEW TYPE OF HIGHWAY, the bicycle trail, i
being added to the map of New York City
Hard-surfaced and twelve feet wide, these trail
wind through the parks and park lands for th
exclusive use of bicyclists. For another generation,
the country over, has discovered the delights and
benefits of cycling recreation. In New York City
alone, 150,000 boys and girls take to their wheels:'
to taste refreshing seafronts, lovely woodlands,‘
and explorations of city and suburbs. All otherl
traffic is barred from these trails, and the cyclist
can race along without fear of traffic mishaps. A?
least eighty-five per cent of the riders are under.
eighteen, and a considerable number under fourT
teen.

In New York City the Work Projects Admin-l
istration, under the City Department of Parks,
has begun one of the first large-scale solutions of
this problem by undertaking the construction of a
system of fifty-eight miles of concrete bicycle
trails that will be city-wide. In the construction
emphasis was laid on having a paved trail twelve
feet wide, since most cyclists prefer to pedal along
together. The courses run through miles of land-
scaped parkland, with views of ponds, streams,
and hills in infinite variety. They are completely
separated from traffic lanes, barred even to pedes-
trians, and designed wherever practicable to give
the rider uninterrupted miles of pedalling. The
trails are hard-surfaced to afford good riding in
all kinds of weather. Their use is, of course, free.
An appropriation of $870,000 of WPA funds has '
been provided up to date, and an average of 1,700. ‘
men have been employed.

The most spectacular part of the new system is
that being built along the city’s recently completed
Belt Parkway. As much of thisrparkway skirts
the waterfront of Brooklyn and Queens, and the
remainder cuts across Long Island through out-
lying sections of the city, it is here possible, even
in the nation’s largest and most congested city, to

create miles of bicycle and pedestrian paths, as
well as motor lanes, with-

out serious interference
from cross traffic.

The WPA has been car—
rying out the city Park Dc-
partment’s plan to open
“this dream parkway,”
which is thirty—three miles

BICYCLING’S FUN! 449

1n length and entirely with-
in the city limits, to the non-
motoring public. A total of
71,700 lineal feet, or about
thirteen and a half miles, of
the broad, hard-surfaced
cycling paths have been con-
structed to date along the
parkway. The larger part of
the mileage is along the
Brooklyn section of the park-
way, as most of this section adjoins well-built-up
communities where the need for such facilities is
most acute. The route passes through many park
and play areas and offers a practically uninterrupted
stretch of nearly nine' miles of path. Connecting
with it at Coney Island is a five and a half mile
stretch of path running north along Ocean Park-
way to Prospect Park, in the heart of Brooklyn,
and tapping neighborhoods where thousands of
cyclists live. This section was completed by the
WPA as one of the first projects in the path—
building program, and immediately became so
popular that construction of other paths was
hastened.

In conjunction with the building of the bicycle
paths, asphalt walks have been constructed along
nearly the entire mileage of the parkway, and con-
crete benches installed at convenient intervals.
Guardrails have been provided, where necessary,
to keep cyclists out of motor lanes, and also to
keep cyclists and hikers from wandering onto the
wrong paths. Extensive landscaping and grading
completed along the entire length of the parkway
will, When the trees, shrubs and vines have ma-
l tured and bordering parks have been developed,
' make the route extremely picturesque. ,

Though the Belt Parkway paths, because of
their length, are the most spectacular feature of
the plan, they are only one link in the vast chain

hand bookstores

of completed and contemplated paths for cyclists .

and hikers. One of the most popular and pictur-
esque bicycle routes now in use is a three and a
half mile stretch of macadamized road which used
to be part of the old Long Island Motor Park-
way, scene of the hiStoric Vanderbilt Cup Races.
This runs through woods and fields, just within
the city limits, and may, in the near future, be con-
nected up not only with paths along the Belt Park-
way but also, through existing parks and contem-
plated park corridors, with paths in Flushing
Meadows Park, now being built on the site of the
World’s Fair. Many miles of hard-surfaced walks

Now that cycling has again become so pop-
ular a sport' books on the subject are
much in demand. For the information on

"cyclana" presented here. we are indebted
to Roland C. Geist. author of "Bicycling

as a Hobby." published by Harper and
Brothers, New York Ci

us that at least a hundred books and

more than titty paper-covered booklets
are available through libraries and second-

in the United States.

ty. Mr. Geist tells

used by millions attending
the Fair will be turned into
bicycle paths as part of the
city’s chain.

In congested Manhattan,
where the need for cycling
facilities is greatest, the
problem of providing them
has been most difficult.
However, the WPA has

built short stretches of path
for the Parks Department along the new East
River Drive, in Riverside Park on the Hudson,
and elsewhere. Short sections of road in Central
Park have been taken over for bicycle use, and
existing running tracks at stadia and playgrounds
have been pressed into use.

Extensive construction of bicycle paths in the
Bronx, jointing Van Cortlandt, Bronx and Pelham
Bay Parks by way of Mosholu and Pelham Bay
Parkways, is planned for the future. At present
the VVPA is constructing about two miles of
bicycle paths in the southern part of Pelham Bay
Park as part of a play area development project.

Eventually the New York cyclist may be able to
take a practically uninterrupted ride from Yon-
kers, on the Westchester County border, through
the parks and parkways of the Bronx, over the '
Bronx-\Vhitestone Bridge of Long Island, and
thence along the entire length of the Queens-

Brooklyn Belt Parkways, with many possible side
trips.

Books on Bicycling
By ROLAND C. GEIST

O’I‘ ONLY BICYCLING itself has become a tre-

mendously interesting hobby, but research
into the literature on the subject is' also claiming
its enthusiasts!

For those who wish to read and look over old
and recent books, the best collections are probably
to be found in the New York Public Library and
the Library of Congress at Washington. The
New York library also has a splendid collection of
bicycling catalogues and scrapbooks of the 1880-

1900 period. Every publication is card catalogued
for quick reference.

For those who enjoy collecting, the second-
hand book stores of all cities offer many oppor-
tunities for browsing around on the sport and
travel shelves. Sometimes these old volumes may
be purchased for as little as ten cents. Magazines

450 ’ BICYCLING’S FUN!

dating from 1880 to 1910 often carry interesting
articles and pictures on bicycling. English periodi-
cals, such as Fry’s Magazine, contain cycling
articles in almost every issue. The key to old
cycling publications is International Bibliography
of Sport, 1890—1912. This has been systematically
classified for books in English, German, French,
and Dutch. The author is C. M. Van Stockum.
The book was published by Dodd and Livingston,
New York City, in 1914.

New books on cycling are listed in the Cumula—
tive Boole Index, which contains pertinent infor-
mation on all books published in the English
language. Recent magazine articles are indexed
by the Readers’ Guide, which may be found in
practically every library.

Another fascinating indoor pastime for the
cyclist is the making of scrapbooks. Scrapbooks
of bygone cycling days are in great demand and
bring as much as $10 in second—hand book stores.
Old newspaper and magazine clippings, programs

.of bicycle meetings and shows make up these in—

teresting volumes. A few of the old magazines
which carry pictures and articles include The
Wheel, The l/Vheelman, Metropolitan Magazine,
Harper’s, Century, Pearson’s, The Quaker, Con-
temporary Review, Outing, M unsey’s, C osmopoli-
tan, and Scribner’s.

In addition to programs from the League of
American Wheelmen and sheet music of the Gay
Nineties, cycling parades and other festivals af-
ford a unique collector’s item. “My Bicycle Girl”
from the American Jubilee at the New York
\Norld’s Fair is now available. Old prints may be
purchased at some second-hand shops from ten
cents to a dollar.

Beyond the scope of this article is the collection
of old bicycles, tricycles, unicycles, etc., as well as
club uniforms, buttons, badges, medals, sashes,
batons, and bugles. ‘

For those wishing to start a collection of cycling
publications the following are suggested:

Books

A Thread of English Road and
Roads to the North, by Charles
S. Brooks. 1924. Harcourt,
Brace and Co., New York City.

Around the World on a Bicycle,
by Fred. A. Birchmore. 1939.
University of Georgia Press,
Athens.

Pedalling to Adventure, by Doro-

thea M. Fox. 1941. Torch Press. other su

° Safety for Cyclers, by Jessie Schofield. January, 1940

From the Cycle Trades of America. Inc..
Chanin'Building. New York City. may be
secured. tree of charge. a booklet en-
titled "Bicycling for Health and Pleas-
ure." There are also available a number
of mimeographed bulletins on such sub-
iects as Historical Facts. Cycle Trans-
portation. Safety. Riding and Inspection
Tests. Selecting Your Bicycle. Riding
Your Bicycle. The Woman Cyclist. and

iects of interest to cyclists.

Bicycling as a Hobby, by Roland C. Geist. 1940. H
per and Brothers, New York City.

Historic de la Locomotion Terrestre, by Baudry Saun'
(Voiture, Cyclisme, 'Automobile) L’Illustration, Par
1936. (This is probably the most complete and bea
tiful volume on the history of the bicycle that h
ever been published.)

The Fastest Bicycle Rider in the World, by Marshall
Taylor (Major). 1928. Wormley Publishing C
Worcester.

Bicycle Built for Two, by Jim and Elizabeth You
1940. Binfords and Mort, Portland, Oregon. (
scribing a honeymoon tour from Coast to Coast \
tandem.)

Pamphlets

Bicycling for Health and Pleasure. Norman Hill, edit
Cycle Trades of America, New York City.

Periodicals

American Bicyclist and Motorcyclist. The Cycling Pre
New York City.

Toys and Bicycles. Toys and Bicycles Publishing C
Chicago.

A Few Magazine Articles on Bicycling

What, Bicycle Licenses? by H. A. Woodmansee. Scri
ner’s Commentator, January 1941.

Going Somewhere and Doing Something, by Henriet
Ripperger. Good Housekeeping. July 1940.

Bicycles and Velocipedes. Consumers Union Report
November 1940.

Bicycling in Our National, State and Municipal Park
1940 Yearbook of Park and Recreation Progres
Washington, D. C.

The Revival of Bicycling Education. High Points Mag

zine. Board of Education, New York City. Decembe
1940.

  

Articles on Bicycling in Recreation

“Merrily We Roll Along!” by Marion Shelmerdin
March, 1937. Bicycle clubs in Reading, Pennsylvania.

The Wheels Go Round and Round. July, 1938. A résum
of bicycling throughout the country.

Biking M alees the Headlines, by Lorne C. Rickert. Janu
ary, 1940. A description of the cycling program i
Ocean City, New Jersey.

Salt Lake City safeguards the city’s bicyclists.

Cycling for S ociability, by Rozelle'
Holman. July, 1940. Oganil
zation and program of th
Cycling Club of Athens, Georgia

Bicycling—A New Extracurrici
lar Activity, by Roland C.

Geist. October, 1940. Schoo‘
bicycle clubs.

“Let’s Go Wheeling,” by Victor
J. Di Filippo. October, 1940.
An account of a bicycling club
at a high school.

 

Prison Recreation Today

IFE IN PENAL and cor-
rectional institutions
in former years was,

by necessity, limited to

eating, sleeping, and in
some instances, working.

Today, however, the insti-

tution seeks to approach a

A community setting through

 a complete program of ac-

,‘ tivities chosen to satisfy

‘ the inmate body’s group

and individual needs. The

i reason for this approach is

to prepare the inmate, upon

release, for life’s normal
activities.
Recreation activities have

j always been vitally neces-

' the present time recreation is assuming its rightful
~ position in the treatment process because of the
current trend for organized leisure—time activities

and the recognition of its values as demonstrated.

in prevention work with delinquents.
In order to secure definite information about the

recreation programs in penal and correctional in-
I stitutions in the United States and Canada in 1940,
157 representative institutions in all portions of
i this country and Canada were approached in an
effort to obtain information regarding their recrea-
tion, physical education, and
health education programs.
Responses were received
from 94 of those receiving
requests for information. A
summary of the findings
follows:

  
       
 
   

Ratings of Recreation
Programs

The replies from most of
the 41 states an-
swering are repre-
sentative of the fed-
eral, state, and
county types of in- O'IO

By NORMAN M. STONE, B.Sc., MA.

Director of Recreation

Rikers Island Penitentiary
New York City

Much has been said about the mental. social.
physical and emotional values of recreation
activities in penal institutions. In I938 a
beginning was made toward evaluating these
activities scientifically when. in June of that
year' the Regional Recreation Association of
Correctional Institutions was organized at the
WaIIkiII Prison in New York. Recreation di-
rectors trom institutions in New York. New
Jersey and Connecticut attended the initial
conference. Now the Association holds meet-
ings every year. Its obiectives are to pro-
mote better organized and all-inclusive insti-
tutional programs. to exchange experiences.
and to discuss pertinent progessive measures.

“'20 2|- 30 Jl-éo

stitutions. Each institution
is rated by objective evalu-
ation. Types of activity, or-
ganization, facilities, per-
centage of program partici-
pation, and personnel are
rated high in determining
the institutions’ score. Rat-
ings are on a percentage
basis, with 100 as a possi-
ble maximum score.

As shown by the accom-
panying chart giving the
ratings of the institutions’

- recreation programs, the
provision thus far made is
exceedingly inadequate.
Only hve institutions are
rated above 50%, and 89

are below that mark. The average rating of all
institutions heard from is 23%. These figures
speak for themselves.

Institutions in the eastern portion of the United
States lead all others upon the basis of the scoring
method used: East—.251; Central—.24; West-—
.223; Canada—.114. I

By the division of the United States into three
map areas (east, central, and west) an average
rating of those institutions considered in each sec—
tion has been determined. Eastern institutions lead
the central and western by small margins and are

rated more than twice as high as the Canadian
institutions.

Comparative average ratings of the different
types of institutions in regard to their. recreation
programs indicate the following: Reformatory
Institutions—.342; Juvenile Schools—.287; State
Prisons and County Institutions—.24; Federal In-
stitutions—. I7 5 ; Canadian Institutions—. I I4.

Reformatory prisons show the most complete

In this table showing the percentage ratings of
recreation programs in institutions. the numerals
indicate the number
of institutions in each
percentage group

451

452 . PRISON RE C REA TI ON TODA Y

and diversified programs.
Federal institutions rate low ‘
because many of their num-

ber are new and have not as
yet evolved their full pro-
gram. Though some state
prisons have high individual
ratings, the average is low-
ered by the number that
possess very poor programs.

Canadian responses indicate
a belief in a limited program of recreation and the

extraction of the inmates’ excess energies through
arduous work schedules.

No provisions have been made for recreational
activities in two of the institutions replying.

The Recreation Program

Sports and Games. From an analysis of the
material received, the following is the complete
list of active, semi-active, passive, team, group,
and individual sports and games. This wide list
demonstrates the varied interests of administra—
tors and inmates throughout the United States and
Canada:

"Today recreation in prisons is in its in-
fancy. There are many opportunities for
trained workers to enter this type of work
and to give constructive help to inmates
by educating them for participation in so-
cially valuable leisure-time activities. If the
inmates of today could be taught to ap-
preciate the values of good leisure habits
and to apply these values in their post-in-
stitutional lifel recreation would truly be
a part of the process of rehabilitation."

No. of No. of
Activity Institutions Activity Institutions
Aquatics . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 Ice Skating . . . . . . . .. 2

Apparatuswork . . . . . .. 6 Jumping events . . . . .. 1

Badminton . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Kittenball . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Bag striking . . . . . . . . . . 4 Medicine Ball . . . . . . . 7

Baseball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Marbles . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Basketball . . . . . . . . . . . .47 Paddle Ball . . . . . . . . . 1

Bean Bag . . . . . . . . . . . .. l Paddle Tennis . . . . . . 3

Bocci . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Ping-Pong . . . . . . . . . .14

Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Bowls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Puzzles . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

Boxing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35 Quoits . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

Card playing . . . . . . . . . .27 Ring Pitch . . . . . . . . . . 1

Chinese Checkers . . . . .. 5 Roller Skating . . . . .. 1

Checkers . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25 Shufijleboard . . . . . . . . . 6

Chess .  . . . . . . . . . ..16 Soccer . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Croquet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Softball . . . . . . . . . . . .47

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 Tag Football . . . . . . .. 2

Deck Tennis . . . . . . . . . . 2 Tap Dancing . . . . . . . . 3

Diamond Ball . . . . . . . . . 1 Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

Dominoes . . . . . . . . . . . . .18 Tobogganing . . . . . . .. 1

Field Events . . . . . . . . ..16 Touch Football . . . . . . 7

Football . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33 Track Events . . . . . . .24

Foul Shooting . . . . . . . . .10 'Tum‘bling . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Golf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Volleyball . . . . . .  . . 50

Handball . . . . . . . . . . . ..43 Weight Lifting . . . . .. 4

Hand Soccer . . . . . . . . .. 1 Wrestling . . . . . . . . . ..10

Horseshoe Pitching . . .41

Zell Ball . . . . . . . . . .. 1

Most popular among the team sports is base-
ball, with volleyball second and basketball third.
Handball and horseshoe pitching lead in the in-
dividual sports group. Ping-pong is first in the
semi-active division, while card playing and check-
ers lead the passive activities.

Other Activities

Physical Education. Ni
institutions have orga
ized physical educatio
programs supervised b
their respective state (1
partments of educatio
Individual physical ed
cation programs for th
correction of function
physical defects are ca
ried out in eight other institutions. Two reform
tories boast of swimming and life saving classe
Military training is mandatory in eleven institu
tions, while fifteen others have compulsory dail
calisthenic drills.

   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

Health Education. The health education pro
grams in eight of the institutions include classes i
personal, social, and community hygiene. Periodi
health examinations with complete follow-up fo
the improvement of health habits and defects ar
administered in three institutions. Two prison
hold regular first aid classes under the leadershi
of a qualified American Red Cross instructor.

Library. Libraries containing fiction, education
science, and biographic volumes are an importan
part of 54 institutions. The prOgrams of most 0
these libraries also include regular distribution 0
current periodicals and daily newspapers. Readin
rooms for the use of the inmates are provided in 3
number of these places. Directed reading course
for educational, vocational, and cultural purpose
are carried out by the directors of education an
librarians in IO institutions. .

Music. Over 35% of the replies indicate that
some type of musical activity is incorporated id
the institutional programs. Prison bands are the
most popular unit, followed closely by orchestras
for jazz renditions. Other types of musical groups
included in many institutions are: instrument and
vocal classes, choirs, choruses of varying sizes, and
community singing groups.

Entertainment. Motion pictures are shown
weekly throughout the late fall, winter, and early
spring months in 49 institutions. More than 50%
of the institutions have some type of radio receiv-
ing sets for the inmates’ use. Dramatic, comedy,
and musical shows put on by the inmates are rou-
tine practice in 19 institutions. Concerts for the
prison population by their own band or orchestra
are held periodically in 13 institutions. Outside

 
    
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
   

. nterested organizations send visiting show troupes
,o 5 prisons. Other types of entertainment pre-
ented are: professional baseball and boxing ex-
ibitions, inmate radio broadcasts, and the use of
lectric recording machines for musical presen-
ation.

Institutional Publications. Publications of the
agazine and newspaper type, written and pub-
ished entirely by inmates, are issued regularly in
15 institutions. Most of these publications are
ubject to examination, before printing, by prison
authorities. Inmates are permitted to mail these
eriodicals to their relatives. Institutions exchange
publications and offer '
constructive criticism to
each other relative to
their journalistic effort.

Inmate Committees.
Forms of inmate com—
mittees organized by the
inmates to act in advis-
ory capacities to insti-
tutional administrators
for facilitation of rou-
tine regulations and pro-
gram participation are
permitted in 12 prisons.
These committees also
aid in the Organization
and direction of the rec-
reation programs. The
various names of these
bodies are: inmate ad-
visory council, inmate recrea-
tion council, motion picture
committee, athletic association,
' athletic commission, and in-
mate recreation committee.

Institutional Clubs. Club activities are a part of
the recreation program in 20 institutions. These
clubs are vocational, educational, social, and cul-
tural in nature. Glee, debate, forum, and drama
clubs are the most popular. Other types of club
organizations are music, Boy Scouts, athletic,
games, bookbinding, belt, crafts, hobby, mechani-
cal, archery, boxing, radio, woodwork, darts, book-
keeping shuffleboard, current events, writers’, iirst
aid, public speaking, and Spanish.

Miscellaneous Activities. Visiting speakers and
Specialty lecturers are routine practice in 7 insti-
tutions. Annual gala lield days with athletic and
novelty events planned for Wide participation are
permitted in 6 institutions. Some of the other mis-

 

Some of the types of activities found
in the recreation programs of the 94
institutions furnishing information

PRISON RECREATION TODAY ' 453

cellaneous activities in use are art groups, picnics,
directed handcraft groups, and supervised hobby
workshops.

Facilities

Seventy—iive institutions reported that their phy—
sical plants include at least one type of play or
athletic iield. Auditoriums for inmate use are
present in 36 prisons, while only I8 institutions are
forunatei enough to possess gymnasiums. Two in-
stitutions indicate that they have real stadia, while
9 have some type of outdoor and indoor natatori'a
for swimming. Eighteen institutions have yards,
recreation rooms, cell
block floors, and halls
for the leisure-time ac-
tivities.

Program Participation

The segregation of
white and Negro pris—
oners in recreation is a
practice in three insti-
tutions. Only 6 of the
94 institutions report
program participation
of 85% or higher by
their inmate bodies.

. Personnel

There are four types
of personnel used in the
direction of the recrea-
tion programs. These four
classifications are: trained and
qualified civilians, custodial,
WPA aids and inmate workers.

RECREATION AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

v""‘i4'-~wiin.l

Trained directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. l7

Chaplains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Other employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9

Voluntary workers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

thcers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20

WPA leaders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

Inmate leaders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12
LIBRARY
Trained librarians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 16

Part—time librarians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

WPA librarians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

OHicer-librarians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

Inmate librarians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 24
MUSIC

Trained directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8

'OHicer-music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

WPA directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

Inmate directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10

Numerals indicate number of institutions utilizing
specialized type of personnel.

454 PRISON RE C REA TI ON TODA Y

Over 65 institutions have at least one type of
recreational leadership. Library supervision is
present in 40 institutions, and 22 prisons have or—
ganized types of music direction and teaching.

What They Say About Recreation Programs

The following opinions chosen from various
parts of the United States are typical of the views
expressed by the most progressive administrators
relative to their institutional recreation prbgrams:

Florida: “It has been our opinion that no pro-
gram of correction could be complete without
great emphasis being placed upon physical health,
’ physical education, and recreation.”

Nebraska: “We believe that a satisfied, tired lad
each evening will help make a cleaner and better
boy when the time comes for him to take his place
again in society.” '

N ew Jersey: “The recreational program at this
institution has been found to be indispensable be—
cause of its values and benefits from the individual,
institutional, and social point of View.”

Indiana: “The full athletic program to which
we subscribe has been of great help in our main-
taining discipline.”

Minnesota: “We believe that the program of

supervised physical education and recreation has
made for a better morale among the inmate body.”

California: “My purpose has been not to en—
tertain the inmates but to make it possible for them
to entertain themselves during the hours away
from regular work and to keep both mind and
body active.”

Connecticut: “Recreation attempts the delicate
task of coordinating and developing a complete
individual—a social being.”

Washington: (Using Sheldon Glueck’s state-
ment as criterion) “The greater the number of
legitimate outlets for mental, emotional, and-aes—
thetic energy that can be acquired by a prisoner
the more likely is he to expend his efforts, when
free, in socially acceptable channels.”

Winconsin: “A result in the field of recreation
is the creation and development of new, better, and
more desirable attitudes on the part of the men
toward fellow inmates, towards officials of the in—
stitution, and toward society at large.”

Conclusions

In spite of the many good recreation programs
in institutions there is still much room for im-
provement. There is a definite need for the pro—

‘ stitutions. This clearing house could publish ped-

   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  

granls as a whole to be better organized, supe
vised, and directed. Activities to meet the need
of the individual prison population should b
chosen by a sound method of determination. Ph
sical and health education programs designed t
meet approved educational standards are a defini
necessity in most institutions. Many prisons ar
without libraries and musical activities. From th
educational and cultural vieWpoints these two ac
tivities are vital.

Though many forms of useful entertainment ar
included in the programs, there seems to be
dearth of original inmate participation due part1
to the opinions held by some administrators and t
the lack of inmate body organization. A step i
the right direction has been taken in twelve priso
where inmate advisory committees are permitte
A recreation program is aided considerably whe
the inmates are partly responsible for the organiz
tion and direction. Naturally the greater the facil'
ties of the individual physical plant, the great
are the chances for a full leisure-time progra
Adequate facilities are very important factors fo‘
the achievement of successful programs. Approx'd
mately twenty per cent of the reporting institu
tions have trained personnel to administer an
direct the programs. If the remainder of eigh
per cent of the institutions had trained personn ,
the average rating of all institutions would un'
doubtedly be much higher. '

A national clearing house could well be esta -
lished by some public or private agency interest
in this particular field. The two most import t
duties of this organization would be to define the
philosophy for recreation in prisons and the aims
for programs. These aims would be elastic enougl
to permit their near attainment by all types of ii-

   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
    

odic bulletins for all trained recreation personnel
in prisons. Through the medium of these bulletins
the latest data and solutions of specific problenfs
submitted to the clearing house could be publicized
for the benefit of the various member institutions.

“A well-known educator promised a decade ago
that with the opening of every school he would
close a jail. His promise has not been fulfilled.
He did not appreciate the importance of regulated
and well—supervised leisure. He did not appreciate
the fallacy of an education that taught the child to
read but neglected the opportunity to teach him to
work or even to play.” —Lewis B. Lawes in

wenty Thousand Y ears in Sing Sing.

I low ABOUT IT, boys and

girls, shall we try some-
thing new? Let’s fence!
=Actually, fencing it not very
' new. It probably has the long-
est tradition and background
of any modern sport. But the
way we’ll go at it, there’ll be
nothing old about it. Here
we go! All the equipment that is necessary is a
jacket, mask, and either a foil, sabre, or epee de-
pending upon the individual’s knowledge and
interest. The differences between these three
weapons are many. In foil fencing the entire body
from the hips up excluding the face and arms is
fair target. Some even consider the groin region
as part of the target. To score a touch with the
foil, only the point touching the fair target may
be considered as such. In sabre fencing the target
is the entire body from the hips up, and to score
a touch the point or the “cutting” edge of the
sabre may be used. While in epee fencing, the
target is the entire body from the toes to the top
of one’s head, and only the point of the epee may
be used to score touches.

“Where can we go to fence?” you’re probably
asking yourself. You can either fence indoors or
outdoors, the locale depending
upon the weather. And for
space you do not need acres of
land. A narrow al-
leyway of the base-
ment of a building
can be utilized and
frequently is. You
I can even push back
several pieces of
furniture and fence
in your own room
if you have neigh-
bors below you who
won’t mind the
noise!

Having clarified a
few points let us
now fence and see
What there is to the
SPOrt that seems to

 

a

By MAXWELL R. GARRET
Varsity. Fencing Coach

University of Illinois
Urbana. Illinois

It the reader is doubtful about the
claims made here for fencing. he is
urged by the author to "pick up a
foil and mask and try it for himself.”

In scoring a touch in sabre fencing
it is permissible to use the point
or the "cutting" edge of the sabre

 

Fencing as Recreation

intrigue us. The first thing
that we notice is your initial
and generally your perpetual
position, which is known as the
“On Guard” position. This
position, coupled with the fact
that you’re always moving for
periods lasting from a few
minutes to fifteen or twenty
minutes continuously, clearly indicates that en—
durance is very much part of the game. Endur-
ance, therefore, being very closely related with
fencing, the game can’t be “sissy stuff” as some
uninformed and unthinking people would have us
believe. Why, even youngsters frequently fashion
crude wooden sabres and try to emulate the super-
colossal duels of such Hollywood adventurers as
Errol Flynn, Frederic March, Charles Boyer,
Douglas Fairbanks, and Ronald Colman! Obvi-
ously, there is a world of motivation possibilities
inherent in the sport. However, to certain groups
of broad—shouldered young men in our educa-
tional institutions fencing is not considered a sport,
but the most deep-chested skeptic among them

’would gladly yell “Uncle” after a ten-minute

fencing lesson.

While fencing we continue to notice its numer-
ous advantages, not the least of
them being the fun that is de-
rived from fencing. You obtain
sincere enjoyment
in working out vari-
ous strategies
against your oppo-
nent. Sometimes
these strategies
come by inspiration
on the spur of the
moment in the hotly
contested fight or
s o m e t i m e s b y
watching your op-
ponent from the
sidelines and noting
his weaknesses. No
matter how you

(Continued on
page 472)

455

Home Play Groups in Baltimore

    
   
    
  
  
  
    
 
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
 
  

By BERTHA G. KYLE What Children? What Ag
Executive Secretary

Ill IOME PLAY GROUPS” origi-
Home Play Groups Association

nated in Baltimore, The children who make up t
Maryland, in 1923 in groups are those in the ho
connection with the program plus any friends the fam
then under way to provide a "The principles on which you are bunt]- wishes to include. No oneo
normal play life for children ing Home Play Groups are sound. It is side the family suggests w
of foreign born families. aekNOWIedged bY 3" edueaiors “16* CHI" guests may be invited. T

The young volunteers who dren need Playma+es °f H'elr °wn age: size of the group depe

. . . d h t that they need directed as well as free d.t. i th h
initiate t e groups were no play. and Hm. for “me children +he upon con lions n e o

able for various 'reasons to home environmenf is “,6 mos]; sunable The same children m

continue their activities over place +0 develop +he righf play habi+s,"_ each time during a iive w
a long period, but the work Mrs. Carl L. Davis, Supervisor of Par- period, and all of them se

was so successful that in 1927 sm‘ Educallml Balilmm’e PUbllc S°h°°|5° to understand that altho

I
t

  

leaders were obtained from when out of doors other c '
the Playground Athletic League (now the Depart— Q dren may join in the games or listen to the sto
ment of Public Recreation). The tact and re- when inclement weather makes it necessary to pl
sourcefulness of these trained leaders, together inside only the smaller group takes part.

with their enthusiasm, resulted in developing the The leader varies her program to suit the grO
project to a point where social workers of the city and the Play SPaee- Older boys and girls in t ‘

suggested a formal organization be developed. family are welcome to 100k on 01' t0 Pertieipat
This they sometimes do.

What Homes? And Where?

During the eighteen years the Home Play
Groups have been in operation activities have been.
conducted in many types of homes—tenements,

apartments, and cottages among the foreign born;
in pleasant suburbs and in crowded sections; and
in Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant homes. The
groups have met in kitchens, living rooms, cellars,
sheds, in yards—large or small—in play space
confined to walks between flower beds or on
lawns, and sometimes in vacant lots. In short,
wherever children play, in or near the home, and
always out of doors when weather permits.

How Financed?

From the first individuals who saw the val
and soundness of the project have without soli '
tation contributed small amounts regularly. Club
D.A.R. chapters, church groups and members, a I
board of directors have given suflicient support -
keep Home Play Groups in operation in some se -
tion of the city. There is no overhead eXpense
we except the very small amount for handwo
material. Much of the handicraft materials use ,
however, are salvaged by the leader or the ho

In one community, when Home Play Grou
were carried on continuously for eight years a I

Sometimes a social worker requests a leader; a more, we instituted classes. We found that t ‘
church worker gives us a list of families to call incentive of prospective “helping leadership” r —
upon; or a teacher of parent classes in our public sulted in self-discipline even on the part of a wa -
schools interests her pupil- ward child in her eagerne s

mowers in the Home Play "For seven or eight years at least I have to be a gOOd playmate'help '

Group Preleet: and requeStS been a regular contributor to the Home In addition to the l‘eCIUire‘
for groups in their homes re- Play Groups Association. Needless to ments that the mother of
sult. Homes have always been say. i never allow my name +0 [.39 used: guardian shall be in the home
available, though some to For d° LTP”+rib‘,’+e ,+° a .PmJeld ""1 each time the leader is pres-
which the project has been Esgrolghlye f;?ev;nin'+:he  of ent with the group and that
Offered have 11“ been able to the Home Play Groups Association." She Shall be reSP0n51ble for
accept it. Comparatively few, _. Esther L, Richards, M, D,I Psy. the group in her home, there
however, have refused. . chiatristI Johns Hopkins Hospital. (Continued on page 469)

456

 

' N HISTORIC Temple Square in Salt Lake
City, Utah, there has been placed, during
the past year, a Sundial. While other mark-

ers on these grounds commemorate important

events in the lives of Mormon men and women,
this sundial is a symbol of the youth of Mormon-
ism. The face of the dial is a hexagonal cell, and
on it appears a bee-hive and the inscription,

. “Knowledge is sun of youth’s bright day.”

This marker commemorates the twenty-fifth

. year of the Bee—Hive Girls’ Organization of the

Church of Jesus Christ of Latter—Day Saints.
This organization is similar in purpose and pro-
gram to such movements as the Girl Scouts and
the Campfire Girls. At the present time it has a
membership of over twenty thousand girls twelve,
thirteen, and fourteen years of age. The groups
are known as Swarms, and the leaders as Bee-
Keepers. There are nearly twenty-live hundred
groups throughout the United States, as well as
several in Canada, Mexico, Hawaii, and the coun—
tries of Europe. The reports of the Silver Jubilee
Year, which have just been compiled, indicate that
the Bee-Hive Girls’ Organization ranks among the
outstanding girl movements of the United States.

In addition to the sundial, many other markers
have been placed as symbols of the opportunities
and accomplishments of Jubilee Year: twelve out—

Their
Silver Jubilee

By ILEEN A. WASPE

The story of the activities
and program of an organiza-
tion numbering 20,000 girls,
as it is told by the chairman
of the general committee

door fireplaces have been erected; over fifty trees
and an equal number of shrubs have been planted;
living Bee—Hives of plants and flowers have been
placed on church grounds; Flags and Flag poles
have been added to equipment; and, in Wyoming,
girls and leaders are erecting a monument to com-
memorate the achievements of their pioneers.
Among the outstanding memories which these
markers symbolize will be those of summer camp
experiences. Last year approximately nine thou-
sand Bee—Hive girls participated in summer camp—
ing. The established summer homes of the Church
in Utah and Idaho were in constant use. The girls
of Canada spent two weeks at Waterton Lakes.
The girls in Arizona were in the White Moun-
tains. Many groups in the vicinity of Los Angeles
had the opportunity of using the Girl Scout Camp
in Griffith Park. Other chosen spots included a
desert ranch in Southern California, Eagle Fenn
Park near Portland, a spot on Puget Sound in
Washington, Bryce Canyon in Southern Utah, and
innumerable sites in the many canyons and on the
shores of the many lakes of Utah and Idaho.
While hundreds were able to use the established
girls’ summer homes maintained by the L. D. S.
Church, others had the opportunity to use facili-

( Continued on page 470)
457

When Collecting Books

collecting first editions as a
leisure-time activity, the fol-
lowing points may be helpful:

Do not be discouraged because
you read in yesterday’s newspaper
that some financier paid so many
thousands of dollars for a moth-
eaten copy of Such and So’s
“What and Such.” Someone at
some time probably bought the
same item for fifty cents. Anyone buying and sav-
ing a book that pleases him, preferably in its first
edition state, is a collector in the best sense. One
need not be a millionaire to satisfy this simple
condition.

Do not underestimate the value of works by
contemporary writers. Remember that if presently
valued books of the past initially cost little, there
are current works on your book seller’s counter
today that will have increased value in the future.
Of these, books by eminent writers at their best
and titles enjoying a large volume of sale repre-
sent the most desirable items to own in their
original condition. Current books having an un-
mistakable note of prominence can be detected by
the discerning collector from among the countless
volumes issued annually. The works of Martin
duGard are illustrative of this point.

IF YOU HAVE-ever thought of

Leave the highly sought-for volumes to those
having a fuller purse than you. Instead, develop a
collection of books which interest you. Briefly,
everyone knows that author prominence and sales
volume enhance the desirability of owning a given
work, but unfortunately- the last factor is not
always known until the less shrewd collector finds
himself paying his more astute brothers four dol-
lars for a two dollar volume published three
months ago. The real test comes in evaluating the
pre-publication remarks of the critics, personally
reading the new author’s work (or author’s new
work), and liking it well enough to purchase. By
such a procedure one might have chosen James
Hilton and John Steinbeck, to name but two au—
thors whose works may later cause as much furor
as first edition copies of Dickens or Dumas do today.

Having chosen your favorites, keep them by you
because they afford pleasure to you alone. Stimu-

458

By BERNARD H. PORTER
NewarkI New Jersey

The collecting of first editions
is a hobby generally regarded as
far too expensive for the maior-
ity of book lovers. In this arti-
cle the author points out that
one need not be a millionaire to
pursue this fascinating hobby.

  
   
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  

late this interest by subscribing t
book collectors’ publications an
catalogues from local book shops
Making cellophane or pape
wrappers and slip cases will pro
vide added enjoyment as well a
serve the practical function 0
preserving books from dust.

Do not assume that the pur
chase of a volume at a bargain i
always your gain; possibly t
book could command no higher figure. Ofte
times a book that has fallen in price is destined t
go lower, while a superior work increases in val
even though at the time of sale it has depreciate
somewhat. In the latter class one might mentio
the early works of Cabell and Wilder, which m
frequently sell below their initial publication co
but later recover because these writings are valu
able contributions to literature.

Do not develop too high a fervor over han
made paper, hand-set type, hand-press printin
and hand-pulled illustrations. Collect some of the
de luxe volumes, but do not overlook the fact th
early printers would have been all too pleased
use the modern techniques of paper machin
linotypes, and rotary presses had they been ava'
able. As a result of technological progress, pa
stock is today more homogeneous. Machine ty
now permits ever-changing designs that are d
structible. Press printing is more uniformly ink;
and spaced to promote ease in reading.

Do not permit the possibility of financial gain h
book collecting to overshadow the more valuab'e
aspects of personal happiness, entertainment, a
interest in living. Actually these should come fir ,
leaving the profit factor to itself. Among the oth r
features accruing from this hobby are: first, r —
spect for the true book lover in contrast to t e
person who considers a book an object of finan-
cial speculation and, therefore, limits, reproduc .
and pirates it for selfish purposes; second, tlle
simple satisfaction of owning artistically and tech-
nically good literature in its original state; third,
the pleasure in talking about a collection with one’s
friends. Critical acumen and good taste thereby

evolve gradually. And there is the greatly to be
(Continued on page 467)

How

0 E CERTAIN when No-

B vember comes that all
i the gardens are prop-
< erly prepared now for the
’ winter months. Winter
mulches are applied when
‘ the ground becomes frozen.

  
   

If the weather is rela-
tively sunny paper-white nar-
i cissi that are planted early this
month should come into bloom
. for Christmas.

i All outdoor bulb planting should be completed

during this month before the ground freezes.

l Make an extensive study of tr0pical plants, espe-
cially those used for food and medicine.

Become acquainted with trees and shrubs that
.. produce berries which may be used by birds for

food.

( Gather nuts and seed pods to be used in mak-
' ing up winter bouquets and wreaths.

Encourage basket weaving, construction of bird
houses, pottery and other related craft activities.

Write a story of the garden including the vari-
ous activities that were carried on during the year.

Have junior garden club members dramatize
L garden stories.

‘ Sweet potatoes, horse radish, beets and carrot
tops can be sprouted for dish gardens.

In December

Plan to have an authority give an instructive
talk on the conservation of Christmas greens.
Urge everybody to observe conservation rules.

Make up wreaths and other Christmas dec0ra-
'tions for the school and home.

All bird feeding equipment should be in place
a ow with an adequate supply of bird food on hand.

Plan to have a Christmas party for junior gar-
en club members.

See that all house plants are receiving the proper
ttention. Excess watering late in the day has a
endency to promote plant dieases.

Perhaps you think that during the
winter months there's little to be
done about gardening. But you'll
find many fascinating things to do,
and there's always spring planning!

By JOHN CAMPBELL
National Recreation Association

Does Your Garden Grow?

Placing the Christmas
tree into a container of
water helps the tree to re-
tain its needles longer
under adverse house con-
ditions. If the foliage is
sprayed with a transparent
wax excess drying out
may be prevented.

Make cuttings from healthy
plants. Do not fear cutting plants

back for the treatment aids them.

Make an interesting display of gourd articles.
Conduct hikes to observe the seasonal changes
at this time of year.

Begin to formulate plans for next year’s garden
club meetings and activities.

When January Comes

This is the month to secure new garden club
members and to organize other garden clubs, if

necessary.

Order seed and nursery catalogs now—read,
mark, and inwardly digest them!

Secure the cooperation of the local librarian in
setting up a garden book shelf at the library.

A garden notebook kept religiously throughout

‘the year is invaluable for succeeding garden

seasons.

Take inventory of all garden tools and supplies.
Send now for anything that may be needed and

repair faulty equipment.

Stimulate interest in new junior garden club
members through garden stories, poems, songs,
myths and legends.

Obtain garden slides and movies to show at club
meetings.

Have garden club members read and report on
current garden developments.

Erect a special garden bulletin board for posting
colorful, illustrated and interesting announcements
during the year.

See that articles and editorials on gardening ap-
pear in the school and local papers.

459

Recreation in a Mining Town

IBBING is in the cen-
l—l ter of the great Me-

seba Range in north-
ern Minnesota where lie
the biggest and richest
iron ore deposits in the
world and where live side
by side, in- a small town of
18,000 persons, a mixture
of peoples of twenty-seven
different nationalities.
Here came adventurous
men from all parts of the
country, Americans tired .
of the even, settled way of life in their home towns.
And along with them came men fresh from the
fields of Europe with their peasant ways and their
foreign languages, all answering the call of iron.
In those early days the. largest business of the
town outside of mining ore was, the selling of
liquor. Killings were almost daily occurrences;
gambling and vice were the biggest recreation; and
such’sporting events as were held were without
observance of even the most rudimentary princi—
ples of sportsmanship.

Into this village, in the year 1925, came the
'Recreation Department. By this time Hibbing had
lost many of its rough edges and it had assumed,
superficially at least, some of the outward aspects
of the average city of its size. But though Hib—
bing, self-styled iron ore capital of the world, in
some respects was becoming more conservative,
underneath there were still very definite indica-
tions of a wild yesterday. It was in attempting to
cope with these that the Hibbing Recreation De—
partment had the experiences which have made its
history so different and so interesting.

How It Began

The Hibbing Recreation Department is one of
only two officially organized recreation depart-
ments functioning in Minnesota’s Mesaba iron
range. It came into being through the efforts of
the underprivileged children’s committee of the
Hibbing Kiwanis Club. An organization meeting
was held attended by representatives from Hib-
bing’s sixty-seven fraternal and civic groups. As
a result of this meeting, an organizing committee

460

By FRANZ NAESETH

There are few recreation bodies in the country
which have had the colorful and romantic
growth which has characterized the Recreation
Department of Hibbingl Minnesota. In a min-
ing town whose span of lite is shorter and
more intense than that of the average com-
munity' the recreation department must be
something more than just a recreation depart-
ment. In addition to inaugurating and con-
ducting organized recreation, it must help edu-
cate and modernize a town which in its day was
as carefree as any mining town of the Old West.

  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

was set up composed of
one representative eac
from the Kiwanis, Rotary
and Lions Clubs, and from
the Chamber of Commerce.
This committee in tur
authorized a selected com
mittee of forty to super-
vise the work of the De-
partment. However, a com
mittee of forty individual
proved too unwieldy, an
to an executive committe
of seven was delegated th
responsibility for overseeing the Department’
work. Little difficulty was experienced in secur
ing appropriations, and in a year’s time a definit
recreation program had taken form.

The present director of the Department, 
Porteous, and its first director, B. G. Leighton
both recall the amazement with which the chil
dren first-regarded play leadership. They ha
always played their games by themselves unde
their own rules. Who was this intruder trying t
tell them what to do? What was the point of i
all? These were some of the questions which lit-
tle and big Austrian, Italian, Crotian, Swedish.
and Finnish boys and girls asked themselves when
for the lirst time a recreation worker appeared.
Mistrust, resentment, and complete misunder-
standing greeted early elforts of the leader.
Nevertheless from such beginnings the boys an;

I
girls were so completely won over that today theiv

     
      
  
    
 
       
  
 

vie with each other in taking part in the Depar —
ment’s activities.

From the very beginning the Department was
faced with two problems which other departments
did not have. The first was the administration of
the big Hibbing Memorial Building used by vil-
lagers fdr meetings, dances, parties, hockey and
basketball games and similar activities, and sec-
ond, the extension of recreation work to include
not only the village proper, but the outlying min-
ing “locations” as well. A location, so-called, is
the name given a small group of homes built near
a mine, affording convenience to miners so that
they live near their place of work, eliminating
transportation costs. These locations were usually

RECREATION IN A MINING TOIVN 461

from one to three miles out of the village but
bound to it in almost every respect.

The Hibbing Recreation Department has thirty-
five different geographical centers in each one of
which it operates a playground. Five are in Hib-
bing proper; twenty-three are in the locations and
seven are in the rural districts. The area covered
by the Department is twelve miles wide and twenty-
five miles long, comprising the whole Hibbing
school district. For many years it was the largest
single recreation department territory in Minne-
s'ota, larger even than that covered by the Minne-
apolis Department, though this is not so today.

The first major obstacle to the Department’s
growth occurred in 1929 when objection was
voiced among some of the townspeople on the al-

. lc‘ged ground that the cost of maintaining the De-
' partment was excessive. As a result of this, a
I special election was held at which the people were
given ballots which read: “Are you in favor of
1 continuing organized recreation in Hibbing ?”
l Two-thirds of the voters were, so, following com—
9 plete reorganization,'the Department continued to
function. Under the revised setup, which still
' operates today, the Recreation Board is made up
l of two members each from the school board, the
village council and the township of Stuntz.

Difficulties Met and Conquered

Arthur Gabardy, accountant in the Hibbing re-
corder’s office, has umpired softball games for the
I Hibbing Recreation Department ever since it was
founded sixteen years ago. Gabardy recalls that
sometimes it was a dangerous job to attempt to
umpire games between rival gangs in Hibbing.
Many times, he says, the only thing which saved
him from a threatened physical beating was the
fact that he was known to be adept with his fists
and because he was a respected adult citizen of the
Village of Hibbing. He remembers in those early
days of department struggle, that pebbles and
stones were thrown at him by displeased fans more
than once and that once he was forced to stop the
players of a losing team from attacking the win-
ners with lists and rocks.
Mr. Leighton, Hibbing’s
first recreation department di-
rector, recalls that some of
the tougher teams, when an-
gered, tore out bases, attack-
ed umpires, stoned opposing
teams and swore. Mr. Por-

The community house in this village of
l8.000 people is an exceedingly elabo-
rate and expensive structure such as'one
would expect to find in a community of
from 500.000 to l.‘000.000
An interesting fact is that all of the
labor unions in the vicinity have their
headquarters in the community building.

teous, the present director, remembers when irate
boys, members of a losing team, stormed into his
office on the verge, he claims, of attacking him for
some Department policy which didn’t fit into that
team’s plans. Calm, even talk overrode their tem-
pers on that occasion. Such incidents weren’t
everyday ocurrences, but did happen often enough
to make difficult the Department’s work.

Today such things happen no more. One of the
reasons why they don’t is the Amateur Athletic Com-
mission, made up of representatives of every team
taking part in recreation athletic tournaments,
whose job it is to consider rule infractions and to
punish those who have caused them. Under such
a setup violations are infrequent and violators are
dealt with more severely than they would be if
handled by Department officials.

It is agreed that there is now among Hibbing
amateurs a relative consideration for the other
fellow, a respect for rules and umpires, an evident
sportsmanship which there never was before. “This
is due, in my mind, to the patient work of the
Recreation Department,” is the observation of a
field worker of the National Recreation Associa-
tion. The accomplishments of the Hibbing Recre-
ation Department as viewed by this worker include
the following:

The freeing of athletics from virtual gang rule

The fostering of sportsmanship

The supplying of supervised play programs to

Hibbing and near-by locations

The Americanization of the children of the for-

eign born

The encouragement of .those who have definite

athletic ability

From 1930 on the story of the Hibbing Depart-
ment is roughly that of all recreation departments.
By that time it had a year-round program under
seven sub-divisions: athletics, social centers, sum-
mer playgrounds, winter sports, social service,
special features and administration.

Accompanying the growth of the Recreation De—
partment has been a noticeable decrease in the
number of reported juvenile delinquencies in the
Hibbing area. Figures submitted by the Hibbing
office of the St. Louis County
Juvenile Department show
that the average number of
cases handled yearly before
1925, when the Department
was organized, was 108. Since
that year the annual case

(Continued on page 470)

population.

Parks and Playgrounds in a. City of Brazil l

HE PROGRAM for beau-
Ttifying Sao Paulo City

features large and
well-equipped parks and
playgrounds for children,
not only in the residential districts but also in
factory sections. In beginning park developments
during the past year, a study was made of the
methods used in other countries, and a library of
several hundred modern books on park and play-
ground planning has been accumulated.

Special provision for children has been made in
the new parks opened in the industrial areas. In
the charge of trained play leaders, these parks
are open to children of all ages and social status.
The attendance ranges from three hundred at the
smallest playgrounds to a thousand at the largest,
while on Sundays and holidays there are as many
as six thousand at some of the parks. The park
facilities include a shelter with offices for in—
structors and doctors, shower baths and sanitary
plumbing, a small tank'for paddling, a grassy
lawn, .swings, seesaws, slides, “turnabouts and
sand-traps.”

Careful records are kept of the children, and
when playground leaders find that medical treat-
ment is needed, they visit the parents of the child
and advise them of the situation. Free medical
service is given those who require it through the
health centers, clinics, and posts of the State
Sanitary Service.

Each day about 1,400 glasses of milk are dis-
tributed on the playgrounds through the gener-
osity of the Cooperativa of Lacticinios. Fruit,
sandwiches, and lunches are also supplied, as well
as jerseys, knickers, “singlets,” and tennis shoes.
Over ten thousand play uniforms, in red and
White with a black stripe (representative of Sao
Paulo colors), have already been furnished.

The children learn games and organize teams to
compete with children in other parks and public
and private schools. Systematic exercises and
drills are given. In each park
the boys and girls edit and il-
lustrate a small mimeographed
magazine and cut out pictures
for making albums. Other
handcraft projects include

462

By NICANOR MIRANDA .
Chief, Division of Education and Recreation
Department of Culture

560 Paulo, Brazil

We of North America pride ourselves
on the beauty of our playgrounds and
their services. But our South Ameri-
can neighbors are also 'ustitiably
proud of their fine accomp ishments.

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

plastic modeling, elemen- .
tary carpentry, weaving
knitting, raffia work, and
the making of game equip-
ment such as bats and nets
There are lessons in musical notes, folk dancing
choral practice, and whistling. Playlets from th
fairy tales of Anderson and Grimm and othe
popular folklore have been successfully produced,
and the children are encouraged to give recita-
tions, poems, and musical selections.

They enjoy picnics and excursions to suc
points of interest as the state museum, the an'
park, the flying field, and large industrial plantsi
They have access to the small libraries, each con-
taining over four hundred juvenile books, estab-
lished in every park. All this literature has beenj
donated by the public.

Talks are given on civic subjects, and the prin-I
ciples of representative government are demon-
strated in a practical ‘manner by an interesting
system of child government. Elections are held
for officers to administer the libraries, team cap-
tains, the staff of the mimeographed newspapers.
A miniature court settles any small disputes.

B
SD
y-a

All of these playground activities are conducted
in cooperation with the Municipal Department of
Culture, the State Sanitary Service, the Institute
of Education, the Department of Physical Educa-
tion, and other private and public institutions for
the care of children. The program will be ex-
tended as rapidly as possible to all factory districts
in the cities. Several municipalities in the interior
have applied to Sao Paulo for aid in developing
playgrounds, and film strips have been prepared
to help in spreading this city’s playground infor-
mation more Widely. The communities which have
signified their intention of developing recreation
programs are Santos, Campinas, Araraquara, Séo
Carlos, Marilia, Santo Amaro.

Physical education for children in Buenos Aires
aims toward a healthy physical
and moral life. Youths and
adults hnd many activities to
interest, divert, and benefit
them.—From a Bulletin issued
by the City of Buenos Aires.

WORLD AT PLAY

 

OAK PARK, Illinois,
has a Borrowed Time
Club made up of el—
derly people most of
whom have rounded their three score and ten
years. The club meets every Wednesday afternoon
at the First Presbyterian Church which gives the
use of it‘s chapel for the program consisting of
vocal and instrumental music, plays, moving pic-
tures, and addresses by guest speakers. Members
of the club interested in playing games have the
use of club rooms provided by Oak Park. Women
members of the club use the rooms the second
Friday of every month. On Easter, Christmas, or
other special days the club has get-together parties.
There is an annual picnic in the summer.

“Borrowed Time” Club
in Oak Park

IT Is interesting to
note that in a case be-
fore the United States
Supreme Court which
involved the federal gorvernment’s authority to
regulate development of hydro-electric power re-
lsources, the federal government .contended the
development of water resources was a national
7 problem which should be regulated in a manner to
obtain the maximum benefit for navigation, flood
control, power, irrigation, and recreation. The

' Supreme Court upheld the Federal Government
in its decision.

Water Resources for
Recreational Use

 

 

 

THE RURAL chorus
sponsored by the Uni-
versity of Illinois
started in a small way
when four years ago nine counties took part. Now
there are thirty-eight counties participating. Any—
one who loves to sing may belong to the chorus.
Each county chorus sets up its own administrative
officers and selects its director and accompanist.
Each director in turn works with the state director
to make a unified ensemble. Remarkable effects
.‘are secured after a single combined rehearsal.
This year the state rural chorus sang in August at
the Chicagoland Music Festival at the Illinois
State Fair, and it will also have a part at the

national corn husking contest to be held in
November.

Rural Choruses in

' Illinois
.________________

 

VOLUNTEERS at the
Buffalo, New York,
Garden Center are
conducting an inter-
esting project at the Children’s Hospital. Eight
children between the ages of twelve and sixteen
were discovered to be intensely interested in gar-
dening. The soil is brought into the hospital and
mixed by the garden leaders. Each step in the
operation is explained as the children watch from
their beds. Trays are then placed over the beds so
that the children are able to plant seeds or trans-
plant seedlings. They also test soil, make garden
scrapbooks, study seed catalogues, make dish gar-
dens, and conduct special studies of their favorite
flowers.

Experimenting with
Bedside Gardening

THE CITY of Danville,
Illinois, in June, 1941,
dedicated a recreation
center at Garfield Park
which was the gift of Sears, Roebuck and Com—
pany to the youth of the community. This center
is one of eight built by the company in communi-
ties throughout the United States.

A Recreation Center
for Danville

THE Department of
Public Recreation,
Baltimore, Maryland,
has conducted a train-
ing course in social recreation for adult leaders of
church groups. The course included material on
leadership, programs, and demonstrations. It was
hoped that the leaders attending the course would
be stimulated to organize and make possible social
recreation programs for the people of their own
churches.

An Institute for Church
Leaders

PLANS for a new build-
ing to house the Albany
Park Branch of the

Jewish People’s Insti-
tute have been announced by Dr. Philip L. Seman,

general director of the Institute. The structure
will be known as the Max Straus Center, and the

cost of the building together with the lot will be

approximately $1 3 5,000. The new center will have
three stories and a basement. Its lines and fur-

463

Max Straus Center
in Chicago

 

464 WORLD AT PLAY

Here’s the

New
DIAMOND

O

    
  
   
 

   

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
madel Aluminum and bronze. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. hea’r-
irea’red steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
men’t shoe. Write for complei’e infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE 80.

46|0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTHI MlNN.

 

nishings will be simple, and fluorescent lighting
will be used throughout. According to present
plans, the first floor will include a general lounge,
a library, game room, a community hall convertible
into a gymnasium, kitchen, and several special
rooms for boys and girls. On the second floor will
be domestic science, fine arts club, crafts, and play
rooms, with ten club rooms on the third floor. Ar-
rangements have been made with the Young Men’s
Jewish Council to house in the new building the
Albany Park Boys’ Club which it sponsors. The
entire basement will be given over to the activities
of this group, providing the members with quar-
ters for arts and crafts, photography, radio work,
and games.

Palisades Interstate Parkway—Requests are
before the legislatures of New York and New
Jersey for funds to provide money for surveys and
estimates for the construction of a parkway to con—
nect the New York metropolitan area with Bear
Mountain-Harriman State Park, a part of Pali—
sades Interstate Park. According to the Palisades
Interstate Park Commission, as many as 20,000

motorists have visited the park- in one day even
midwinter, causing severe traffic problems on t
one available highway along the west shore of t

Hudson. The new highway would provide citize
of New York City and New Jersey easy access

summer and winter facilities provided at Be
Mountain-Harriman State Park.

Paddle Tennis Tournament to Be Held
The Men’s National Open Paddle Tennis Cha
pionship Tournament will be conducted by tl
United States Paddle Tennis Association begi
ning Saturday, October 18, 1941, at the Sterling
Tennis Club, 1000 Franklin Avenue, Brooklyn,
New York. Paddle tennis players throughout tlje
country are cordially invited to take part in t
tournament. Entry blanks may be secured fret
the U. S. Paddle Tennis Association, whose hea -
quarters are at the Madison Square Boys Clui
301 East 29th Street, New York City.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

One important change in the rules (for senio‘r
players only) has been adopted by the National
Rules Committee, which will go into effect with
the tournament. One serve only is allowed. If the
serve should be a fault, the server loses that point.
This rule has met with almost universal approval
for it speeds up the play and tends to balance the
advantage between server and receiver, thus avoid-
ing domination of the game by the server.

For further information regarding rules of play
write Murray Geller, Chairman of Rules Commit-
tee, 10 Argyle Road, Brooklyn, New York.

The Dance Archives—«To meet the ever-
growing interest in the dance in this country, the
Dance Archives was established in October, 1939,
as a branch of the Museum of Modern Art in
New York City. Numerous collections of 1112}-
terial have been gathered together into the
Archives for the use of the public: books, pic-
tures, sculpture, costumes, drawings, documents of
all kinds intended to serve as source material for
contemporary and future inspiration rather than
as a musty record of the past. The Archives is
now the most comprehensive dance collection in
the world, according to The Bulletin of the M11-
seum of Modern Art for February—March, 1941,
except for two notable European collections which
may or may not still be intact. The Dance
Archives is described in detail in this issue of
The Bulletin. The Museum of Modern Art is
located at 11 West 53rd Street, New York City.

WORLD AT PLA Y 465

Volunteers in Lincoln, Nebraska—The re-
port of the Lincoln, Nebraska, Recreation Board
for 1940 makes the statement that a number of
graduate students who had participated in the rec-
reation program at Havelock High School in 1940
served as volunteer assistants in the different
activities.

Country Dancers Give Annual Festival—-
Gay music and bright colors ushered in the fif-
teenth annual Spring Festival of the Country
Dance Society presented in April at the Royal
\Vindsor Ballroom in New York City. More than
500 men and women, boys and girls, followed the
ten foot Maypoles out onto the huge dance floor
where they twirled and jumped, marched and curt-
Sied in authentic country patterns. The dancers
came from all parts of the United States and rep-
resented schools, colleges. nurses homes, and com-
munity groups. Morris dancers energetically
waved their white scarves, and dignified court
dancers stepped stately. Sure-footed children
went through the intricate steps of the sword
dances and with the older dancers locked their
imitation swords into the symbols of sacrifice.
Century-old rounds, reels and square dances com-
pleted the program. All these dances were col-
lected or transcribed by members of the Society.

Children’s Book Week—November 2 to 8,
1941, are the dates which have been" set for the
twenty—third observance of Children’s Book Week
this year. The slogan which has been selected is
“Forward with Books.” Miss Marion L. Wood-
I burn is associate director of Children’s Book
' Week this year. Her office is at 62 West 45th

Street, New York City. A manual of suggestions
. for the planning of programs, exhibits, etc., and

other information concerning the week is available
from Miss VVoodburn’s office.

In North Carolina’s State Parks—The state
parks of North Carolina last summer embarked
on a very intensive recreation program. Approxi-
mately forty workers, including nine naturalists,
were employed to conduct the program of nature
instruction. Through school cooperation and the
use of school busses, children were brought to the
parks during the forenoon for a day camp pro—
gram. This service was inaugurated the previous
summer in Cheraw State Park and proved so suc-
cessful that it has been extended to other parks.

    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

As Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University at Kansas
Lawrence. Kansas

  

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play—game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive License mgreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO-
3524  Street 3 a a n a D St. Louis. Mo..

Authorized Sales Representative in Yoar Locality

 

 

A Transportation Parade in Detroit—"At the
invitation of the Mayor of Detroit, Michigan, the
Department of Parks and Recreation took part in
a parade marking the opening of wider Gratiot
Avenue. The Recreation Boys’ Band led this sec-
tion of the parade, followed by a float made in the
Recreation Department’s workshop and carrying an
Indian canoe and several Indians beside a tepee.
This exhibit of the earliest form of transportation
was followed by the pony express, stage coach,
horse and buggy, the forty-and-eight locomotive,
old-fashioned bicycles, a horse drawn street car,
Fords of an early vintage, present day cars, motor-
cycles and motor coach, ending with an airplane.
The Ford Motor Company and the Department
of Street Railways helped by furnishing vehicles.

A Legacy for Allentown’s Playgrounds—The
city of Allentown, Pennsylvania, this year will re-
ceive $78,231, representing a fourth of the income
of the estate of General H. C. Trexler, for use in
the maintenance, improvement, and extension of

its park and playground system. The city also

466 WORLD AT PLAY

PLAY MINI-GOLF

Teaches Novice O Lowers Score of Dub Golfer

Mini-Golf and Shufi-OE is playable in the recreation hall,

gym, church, parlor or on any smooth surface. Why not
start a small class in the rudiments of golf. Inexpensive
and simple to demonstrate.

You taught tennis through my game of Paddle Tennis.
Now try MINI-GOLF.

Send for catalogue of Paddle Tennis, Rounders, Pad-
minton, (Chinese) Chungua Chess and Shove Ha'Penny.

BEAL'S GAMES. Inc.
277 FIFTH AVE" NEW YORK CITY MUrra'y Hill 4-7239 -40

For information concerning

The Scottish Country Dance Society of the United States.
write to Beal's Games, Inc., 277 Fifth Ave" New York City

received $50,038 for the maintenance of Trexler
Memorial Park, and Lehigh. County received
$28,043 for the maintenance of the Trexler-Le-

high Game Preserve.

Nature Activities in West Hartford, Con-
necticut-——A large number of groups are co-
operating in the development of Beach Park as a
nature area, according to the first annual report
of the, Department of Recreation of West Hart-
ford. The first and second grades of Beach Park
School will feed the birds; the third grade will
develop a special nature project; and the. fourth,
fifth, and sixth grades will work at the area and
bring in specimens to plant. The science classes
of the Alfred Plant School will make signs to be
placed in the area. The garden club of the Wil-
liam Hall High School will develop a rock garden
in one section ‘of the tract, and the Edward Morley
School will donate plants. The Boy Scout troops
will do physical work on the area, building two
rustic bridges and laying out and clearing the
nature trail, and a Cub Scout pack will make bird
feeding stations and nests. The Girl Scouts, too,
will have a part in the project as the leaders of
the Brownies have been organized in a nature
study group, and leaders are meeting twice a month

 

 

With Apologies!

It was incorrectly stated in the September issue
of RECREATION that Louis W. Kolakoski, whose
article on creative crafts appeared in that number,
had won first place in the 1940 Joseph Lee
Memorial Contest for Recreation Literature. Rus-
scll J. Foval, Superintendent of Recreation in
Alton, Illinois, was the first place winner in the
contest; Mr. Kolakoski won second place.

 

to study the area. The WPA has given the service
of a naturalist to develop the area.

Twentieth Annual Youth Week — Seve 4
primary needs of youth were emphasized thi |
year during Chicago’s twentieth annual celebr
tion of Youth Week. Programs demonstratin
the problems and activities of young people wer
conducted by parks, playgrounds, churche
schools, business and industrial organization
civic, social and recreational agencies, in each 0
the city’s seventy-five communities. As outlined
the seven needs of youth are training for demo*
cratic living, sound educational opportunities, sati
isfying recreational experiences, adequate healtl
programs, opportunities for economic securit
racial and religious tolerance, and furtheranc
of world peace. From Community Recreatio
(Chicago Recreation Commission). '1

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

Attendance at the Union County Parks
Although baseball and softball drew the greatest
attendance in the Union County, New Jersey,
Park System during the month of May, with
totals of 91,118 and 52,913 respectively, picnick1
ing showed the largest increase as compared wit
the same month in 1940. In May, 1941, 42,99
people made use of the picnic facilities provide
in the parks. This figure represents an increase 0
14,604 over May, 1940. Boating figures increased
from 8,592 to 14,364, while the attendance a
children’s playgrounds rose from 2,023 to 8,842!
The attendance report for May, 1941, shows par-
ticipation in 36 organized activities, seven more
than for the same month last year. Total attend+
ance was 318,158 as compared with 287,933. This
does not include totals for hikers and walkers, nor
persons parked or driving through the park areas.

An Experimental Camp—According to an
Associated Press dispatch from Durham, North
Carolina, dated June 17, 1941, the National Youth
Administration plans to open a camp on an ex-
perimental basis to give courses in physical train-
ing to twenty-six youths rejected by selective ser-
vice officials because of physical defects. In addi-
tion to the physical training, the young men will
also be given instruction to fit them for work in
defense industries when they are released from
camp. While at camp the men will receive $35 a
month plus maintenance and medical and dental
service.

Making Golf Everybody’s Game—Last May

sion opened at the Airport Recreation Field its
eighteen hole “pitch and putt” layout or “the be—
ginner’s golf course,” as it is called. Its purpose
was fourfold: to reduce the green fee; to cut by
one half the time required to play eighteen holes;
to provide a golf course that would be ideally
y suited to beginners; and to furnish eighteen holes
‘ of golf for men and women who cannot play until
‘ after work or spend more than two hours at the
'game.

  

During the first season every goal was reached.
'VVith a green fee of only 15 or 25 cents, with
clubs and balls furnished, the golf course was self-
supporting. With no hills or difficult shots, it was
suited not only for the beginner but for family
groups and for individuals whose physical condi-
tion permitted only mild exercise.

It should be emphasized that the Commission’s
golf course is in no sense a substitute for the reg—
3 ulation municipal golf course. The “pitch and
. putt” course has its own unique function, which is
a to serve a purpose not fully achieved by the

. regular course.

  
 

Pioneering in Teaching Democratic Princi-
. ples Through Experience—As long ago as 1907,
Hiram House in Cleveland, under the leadership
of George A. Bellamy, was pioneering in teaching
I principles of democracy. That year Hiram House
on its public playground established a municipality
with a bank, a fire department, a police depart-
ment, courts and other branches of city goyern-
: ment in order that the children might learn what a
city does for them and how a city carries on ac-
tivities in behalf of its citizens. _

It has been stated that individuals remember only
7% of what they hear, 12% of what they see, but
80% of what they do. The plan started in 1907
on the Hiram House playground is still continuing
in this year 1941.

Role of the Artist in Defense Program—The
role of the artist in national defense was demon-
- strated in a unique contest sponsored by the Arts
and Crafts Guild of Westchester County, New
York, and allied groups. County artists were asked
to submit posters describing graphically “Come
Wind, Come Weather,” Daphne Du Maurier’s
new book on England at war. The project was
designed to demonstrate how posters and drawings
can be used to bolster the civic morale in times of
national emergency.

the Cincinnatti, Ohio, Public Recreation Commis- '

 

 

WORLD AT PLAY 467

For Hilarious
Entertainment

TR Y

THIS ONE!

The New Book By
ALEXANDER VAN RENSSELAER

Can you cut a piece of paper in half and still have only
one piece of paper, or pour the entire contents of a coca-
cola bottle Into an ordinary baby’s bottle nipple? These

 
 

tricks and 100 other stunts and practical jokes are in this

lively companion piece to last year’s party pepper-upper
“Betcha Can’t Do It.” $2.00

D. APPLETON-CENTURY CO.
35 West 32nd Street, New York

When Collecting Books

(Continued from page 458)

desired mental growth that results from associa-

tion with books by authors who have lived and

imagined rich experiences.

Begin your collection now. First'edition prices
are and have been in the recent past much lower

than usual. The present is an opportune time for
the not too wealthy beginner.

Good Morning, the dance manual which
has met with unusual popularity, has

been supplemented by our latest release.
October 1, 1941:

RECORDS OF EARLY
AMERICAN DANCES

Ten of these Early American Dances recorded
by Henry Ford’s old-time dance orchestra, playing
a popular form of American folk music, are now
available with or without calls.

These numbers -are taken directly from the Good
Morning book, and chosen for their rhythm. sim-
plicity, and popularity, with a variety of quadrilles.

circles. and couple dances, including a number of
singing calls.

Please 1511 out the following blank for a catalog
listing all of the above-mentioned records:

HENRY FORD
Dept. R—Box 100

Dearborn, Michigan

Please send me a copy of your catalog listing
Early American Dance Records.

Name .................................................................. ..

Street Address .................................................... ..
City ........................................ .. State ................ ..

468 HALLOWEEN IN THE TRADITIONAL MANNER

“LET’S PLAN A PARTY"

o The first of Jrhe new "Parties Plus"
series of books by Ethel Bowers is
just off Jrhe press. It deals with
problems of planning and prepara-
Jrion: outlines four parties for large
groups and describes Jrhe activities
involved: suggests some social rec-
reation activities for small groups:
and offers a few banquet games
and s’run’rs.

If you are looking Jr'or new material
on parties for all occasions. order
Jrhis booklet now.

Price $.50

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY

A Craft and Hobby Exhibit in

San Diego
(Continued from page 424)

lophane made windows completed the scene. The
boys are ready to start another this year, if some-
one will guarantee them plenty of loaded ice
cream sticks!

Recreation workers from the WPA Project as-
sisted in the event.

Hallowe'en in the Traditional Manner
(Continued from page 419)

abandoned, survives in the fortune wheel which is

rolled from guest to ‘guest, bringing a gift to each.

A variation of ducking for apples is to hide a
number of dimes in a pan of flour from which the
competitors are required to pick them up with
their mouths. Before they have finished the faces
of the participants resemble ghosts!

The food served at parties today has little re-
semblance to that of early days in other countries.
Doughnuts, mince pie, and fruit cake have re-
placed the custom of serving mashed turnips and
other foods with a Hallowe’en significance. Cider

 

. .
has becomevthe universal beverage, replacing the I
Lamb’s Wool so popular in the British Isles i
Cookies may be cut in the shape of bats, cats
owls, or witches for use as Hallowe’en favors, bu
they are not served with any thought other tha
their use as part of the decorations. We have noth

i
ing that resembles the Soul Cake or Dumb Cak I
so popular in Scotland and Wales. I i

 

Some Hallowe’en Bulletins

(Available from the National Recreation Association)
The Community Celebrates Hallowe’en . . . . . . .14

Ways in which a number of communities have
celebrated Hallowe’en

Fun for H allowe’en . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25

Suggestions for activities and stunts sufiicient
for several Hallowe’en entertainments and parties

H allowe’en Gambols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
An entertainment for a large number of children
Peter, Pumpkin Eater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

A play for children

Recreation Advances in Kansas City
(Continued from page 443)

very much expanded program the Park Depart-
ment made many improvements to the various
facilities, including the rehabilitation of I 30 tennis
courts and the complete reconstruction of two play-
grounds. The total cost of these improvements
was approximately $42,000.

A City -Wide Hallowe'en Celebration

(Continued from page 420)

a short talk. He was assisted by City Manager
W. P. Edmonson. A. E. Genter, Director of Rec-
re'ation, served as secretary.

Over ten thousand people attended the 1940
celebration, and it is expected that the attendance
will increase this Year.

Recreation for Defense
(Continued from page 423)
new friends and new strength through the whole-
some enjoyments offered them.

Individually and in groups we can all see to it
that our boys can make desirable, enjoyable con-
tacts. \Ve can supply them with wholesome gaiety
and amusement. It need not be costly. The main
thing is the effort we all must expend if we are to
make our armed forces strong and our boys happy.

 

HOME PLAY GROUPS IN BALTIMORE , 469

Lakeland's Nature Study Club

(Continued from page 432)

oaks near the bird bath. The audience faced'the
lake, where gulls, ducks, and swans added beauty
and charm to the picture. After hearing lectures
on Florida wild flowers and palms, the Club mem—
bers went to the lake shore, where they fed the
birds and a scientist identified them.

Home Play Groups in Baltimore
(Continued from page 456)
is one other—that the children and young peOple
of the groups and classes shall use what they
learn and enjoy. “Pass it on,” is our motto!

For a continuation or follow-up, Boy and Girl
Scouts or adults in the neighborhood may encour—
age and assist the children who have access to a
public library to sign the Library League card and
carry out its suggestions. Thus it may become a
community play program.

There never has been, nor should there be, any
compulsion associated with our program. This is
a play program, and for its success willing partici-
pation under tactful guidance is necessary. No
prizes or awards are given nor are clubs formed.

Libraries which have assembly halls are glad to
have them used by us. Some churches, too, have
opened their doors to us.

Since we make no charge for our services, all
are on the same level and each has equal oppor—
tunity. Of course residents of any neighborhood
may raise money for a group in their locality, as
was done in one instance when incipient delin-
quency was successfully combated by means of a
play group in a neighbor’s home.

Observers competent to judge have noticed in
the young people affected by this program some-
thing indeflnable. Children in our kindergarten
groups are different from others, they tell us—
happier, more capable. A teen—age girl in the
absence of her mother cares for her family, includ-
ing seven children and a sick father. “That ex-
plains her,” said the social worker. “You can trust
that boy,” said a mother of girls. “He takes an
interest in all the children.”

The fact that this project could not be widely
advertised without injuring it, since people need
to see in order to be convinced, has to some degree
retarded its development. We have protected the
families served by us from exploitation. Leaders,

understanding our attitude, have been unhampered
in their work.

 

RECREATION
EQUIPMENT
BY PORTER

  
 
 
 
 
  

Complete line of gymnasium.
playground and pool equip-
ment. Famed "Iungleqym"
Climbing Structure — illus—
trated —as low as $50.40
P. 0. B. Factory. Write for
literature.

11
THE I. E. PORTER CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

OTTAWA t

The entire project has grown in the most nat-
ural way to fill a need. No complete plan was
worked out in advance. \N e had the vision, fitted
the work to the need, and finally typed the method
and results. '

Let's Have a Quilt Show

(Continued from page 425)

fled range of recreation activities, it is not unrea-
sonable to say that needlecraft provides the great—
est number of recreational hours spent by women.
Quilting probably provides the widest of the many
fields of needlecraft and a quilt show is properly
a recreation activity.

With all the color of a Hower show and the
artistry of a fine arts exhibit, a quilt show offers
an opportunity for any active club or organization
to present a display that will make one of the out-
standing special events of the season. No matter
how small the community, sufflcient material is
near at hand which needs only to be assembled to
present an exhibit that will be commended for
weeks afterwards.

In one community of 10,000 population a quilt
show with 200 quilts in I 5 5 different patterns, in—
cluding both new and antique entries, gave I 50
women a much—appreciated opportunity to dis-
play their needlecraft.

At this show both appliqued and pieced quilts
were received. Unusual patterns were many—-
“Little Red Schoolhouse,” “Ocean \Nave,” “Old
Hickory,” “Indiana Rose,” “Devil’s Puzzle,” “Log
Cabin,” “Wild Goose Chase,” “VVashington’s
Pavement,” “French Bouquet,” “Trip Around the
World,” “Postage Stamp,” “Drunkard's Path,”
and “Mexican Feather”—in all I 55 different pat-
terns. Outstanding quilts included antique “Log
Cabin,” “Starfish,” “Rebel’s Feather” and many
others, including a quilt 240 years old made in the
north part of England and brought to the United
States by early colonists to whom it had been
handed down through several generations. A

470 RECREATION IN A MINING TOWN

“Hawaiian Pineapple” quilt made by a native Ha-
waiian was also exhibited. A special display of
twenty heirloom quilts was offered. Attendance
at the exhibit exceeded 4,000, with visitors from
neighboring cities and towns, and photographers
from the capital city paper. Praise was high from
needlecraft editors and quilt experts.

Publicity has been found to play an important
part in making the show a success and is of im-
mense value in the solicitation of quilts. All news-
papers will use interesting stories about your quilt
entries; research and history of quilts and pub-
lished lists of desirable and unusual quilts will
bring results. Antique quilts always make good
“copy” as does any unusual history or oddity con-
cerning particular quilts. Merchants selling prints
gladly cooperate through window-card space.

The solicitation of quilts may be carried\out in
addition to printed publicity by personal contact.
Most people either have quilts or know of per—
sons who possess them. Phone calls and postal
cards may be used in getting registrations. How-
ever, care should be taken to avoid recurrence of
similar patterns in quilts and of course a file must
be kept of the name of each exhibitor, with ad—
dress and names and number of quilts. It takes
courage for women to bring their quilts out for
public display. Assure them at all times, and show
them as well, that their quilts are being handled
with great care. This done, you will have an even
bigger quilt show the second year.

Recreation in a Mining Town

(Continued from page 461)
average has dropped to 76. Juvenile Officer C. E.
Everett believes that the recreation program is
partly responsible for the decrease, though he adds
that the churches, Boy and Girl Scouts, the Y.M.
C.A., Y.\V.C.A., and other such agencies probably
have had an equal influence in cutting down
juvenile delinquency.

Testimony in behalf of the recreation depart-
ments on the iron range recently was given by
Frank McCormick, athletic director at the Uni—
versity of Minnesota, who told a legislative com-
mittee investigating the iron country that “Range
recreation programs are largely responsible for the
low rates of juvenile delinquency in that area.”

The Setting Today

Today the department operates in a setting much
different from that of 1925. Hibbing is a little
slower today, a little more mellow, a little chas-
tened from the batterings of economic hardship and

   
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 

from the realization, reluctantly arrived at, that t
iron ore can’t last forever, that even the “bigg
little village in the world” must one day lose i
youth. The booming, zestful, pioneer days a
gone. Endless public spending no longer is t
rule. The tax rate has been hammered down
today municipal tax income is decreasing. A
after many years of trying, down-state legislato
at last have a good opportunity of putting throu
a law which will divert mining tax funds direc
into the state treasury instead of into the coffers
the local mining towns as is now the case. Th
in Hibbing and in other Mesaba Range mini
towns today the watchwords are economy, r
trenchment, conservatism instead of taxing, spen
ing, expanding. Now the Recreation Departme
having won one battle in helping educate a
Americanize the town, must fight another, mu
resist alleged economy demands against recreati
department appropriations.

So far these demands have not been very v
In fact, no outright cuts have been asked for b
if unspoken, they are there just the same, they a
implied. If municipal tax income is on the dow -
grade, it follows that the municipality must cut i
department appropriations. Thus, the ultima
future of organized recreation on the Mesa
Range is not a bright one.

Nevertheless, it is estimated that high grade 0
will last for another thirty years and that the ran
towns, while perhaps slowly declining, will on t
whole continue as they are for a long time to con .

And when the saga of Hibbing is finally wr -
ten; when its book is closed once and for all, it s
certain that the Recreation Department will figu
largely in the story. Its function as amalgamiz
as Americanizer, as mixer in the uneasy melti
pot which is the Mesaba Range is one which ca -
not be lightly passed over.

Their Silver Jubilee

(Continued from page 457)

ties provided by the government or other organi-
zations.

To provide funds for summer camping, the
girls, each year, conduct “camp-fund drives!”
These include sales of candy, pop-corn, pastry,
and doughnuts. Aprons, flowers, and quilts are
made and sold by many groups. Baby tending IS
always found profitable, as is also preparing and
serving plate lunches. In rural communities, thin-
ning beets, picking fruit, and even planting and
tending a potato patch have provided the neces-
sary funds. Penny drives and silver showers are

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 471

sometimes used as more direct methods for obtain-
ing the needed help.

Another occasion which will long be remem—
bered by the three hundred girls who participated,

and the eight thousand spectators, was the folk I

dance festival held on the famous dance floor at
Saltair On the shores of the Great Salt Lake.
Three hundred girls in colorful, bright costumes
presented Swiss, Norwegian, and Czechoslovakian
natives dances. Folk dancing has always been a
I feature of the Bee-Hive Organization, and the
I Jubilee Year presentation has given this activity
a new impetus which is finding eXpression through-
out the many states wherever there are active
Bee-Hive groups.

In addition to these events, the Jubilee Year
was filled with a great variety of monthly events.
Over 38,000 guests attended receptions. Thirteen
thousand girls participated in Fun Frolics, five
thousand enjoyed the May Day Breakfast. Sixty-
seven hundred children were entertained at story
festivals. Each group in its own community pre—

‘ sented at least four public programs, and in many
l instances their audiences included a thousand
’ persons.

An Honor Service climaxed the year’s activi—

ties. Over seven thousand girls received the spe— '

cial Silver Jubilee Honor Badge on this occasion.
From Me5a, Arizona; Pocatello, Idaho, and many
f other localities come reports of thrilling evenings
I in which hundreds of girls participated, and where
. audiences often approximating a thousand paid
tribute to the accomplishments of the Bee-Hive
Girls and the opportunities provided for them
daring the past year. This has indeed been a
memorable year in the lives of these adolescent
girls and has been a fitting tribute to a girls’
movement which is enriching the lives of thou-
sands of girls, training them for service to their
fellowmen, and building in their hearts a faith in
their God.

The leadership of the Bee—Hive Girls’ Organi—
zation is all voluntary service. A general com-
mittee of six members in Salt Lake City plan the
program in general. It is then interpreted and
applied in over one thousand “ward” units by over
three thousand Bee-Keepers. This organization is
part of what is known as the Young Women’s
MutUal Improvement Association of the Church
Of Jesus Christ of Latter—Day Saints which di—
rects a recreation prOgram for youth and adults.
The leaders of the Bee-Hive work are grateful
for the inspiration and help which they receive
from the other youth movements of our country.

  
  

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
2 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 1

 
     

MAGAZINES

The American City, August 1941
“Seashore P001 in Sioux City” by Keyes G. Gaynor

The American City, September 1941
“New York’s Marine Amphitheatre”

The Crippled Child, August 1941
“Polio Swimming Clubs in the United States” by
Francis M. Dunford

Journal of Health and Physical Education,

September 1941
“The Dance Section—Questions and Answers” by

Lucile K. Czarnowski
“Whom to Train for Recreational Leadership” by

Elizabeth E. May

National Parent-Teacher, September 1941
“Beautiful for Spacious Skies” by Howard Braucher

The Nation’s Schools, September 1941
“Recreational Areas” by C. M. Miles

Parks and Recreation, August 1941
“Parks and Recreation in Wartime” by A. T.
Whitaker

Youth Leaders Digest, June 1941
“Camp Activities”

PAMPHLETS

Adventures of Annabelle. Safety for night drivers.
Highway Education Board, Washington, D. C. Sin-
gle copies free; in quantities, price $.05

A Civilian Defense Volunteer Office. How to organize
civilian defense groups in recreation and many other

fields
Office of Civilian Defense, Washington, D. C.

Education Under Dictatorship and in Democracies. Edu-
cation and National Defense Series, U. S. Office of
Education. Pamphlet No. 15

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,

price $.15

Enlist for Safety. A program of practical measures for
meeting the national accident emergenCy
National Safety Council, Chicago, Illinois

Games for-Small Spaces and Small Groups by Ella

Gardner .
Extension Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture,

\Vashington, D. C.

Night Lighting of Recreation Facilities. WPA Recreation
Project for Northern California, San Francisco, Cali-
fornia

Pathfinder for Day Camps. First and second quarter
W'PA Recreation Training and Demonstration pro-
gram, New York City

Play Spots. Akron and Summit County
Community Chest, Akron, Ohio '

Selected Motion Pictures
Motion Picture Bureau, National Council, Y.M.C.A.,
New York City

Tournaments. How to organize them
WPA Recreation Training Program, New York City

472 NEW YORK’S AQUACADE

What To Do-——Where To Do It. A few suggestions for

free time summer activities
Council of Social Agencies, Buffalo, New York

0

ANN UAL REPORTS

Juvenile Court, Durham, N. C.; Community Music Asso-
ciation, Flint, Mich.; Lake County Department of Pub-
lic Welfare, Gary, In-d.; Interstate Commission of Dela-
ware, Philadelphia, Pa.

Chicago Park District, Chicago, 111.; Public Recreation
Department, Cincinnati, Ohio (13th Annual Report);
Recreation Commission, Clairton, Pa.; Central Com-
munity House, Columbus, Ohio; Recreation Depart-
ment, Union County Park Commission, ‘Elizabeth, N. J.;
Fenton Community Center, Fenton, Mich.; Physical
Education Department, Minneapolis Public Schools,
Minneapolis, Minn.; Oklahoma City Park Department,
Oklahoma City, Okla.; Bureau of Recreation, City of
Scranton, Pa.

Fencing as Recreation
(Continued from page 455)

work out your plans against your opponent, the
skills, which are generally developed within several
months, are all subject to the cleverness of an
active brain which must be on the alert at every
moment if they are to score on your colleague and
at the same time counteract the latter’s attempt to
do the same. These skills, which are mentioned
herein, include split-second timing and agility and
ability to obtain perfect coordination of the vari-
ous fencing movements between the arms, legs,
body, and mind. Athletes who specialize in other
sports find fencing excellent as a conditioning
sport between seasons. Don McNeil, National
Tennis Champion of 1940, publicly stated that
fencing is a fine conditioning sport and recom-
mended its use to others.

When you get on the floor to fence your op-
ponent, all thoughts are cast out of your mind ex-
cept, “How can I beat him?” “Will I be success-
ful if I try this movement against him?” “Where
is he vulnerable?” and so on. All these thoughts
center on your opponent and indicate your desire
to beat him. But isn’t this true in the other sports?
It is quite true, but how often in the other sports
do you go out by yourself, think for yourself,
struggle for yourself, and finally win for your-
self? There aren’t many sports in which you will
find this occurring. Tennis, boxing, wrestling,
handball, and badminton, however, are several ex-
ceptions which fall in the same class as fencing.
This class of activities stands on common ground
—-——they all tend to produce individuals with indi—
vidualistic ideas. Since one measures man by what
he is and what he can do, the individual is under
the duty of making the most he possibly can out

New York's Aquacade

N JULY 26, 1941, the Department of Parks 0

New York City reopened the New Yor
State Amphitheatre, located in Flushing Meadox
Park, Queens. This was one of the few perma
nent structures at the World’s Fair and was
contribution by the state to the recreation syste
of the city. Since the close of the Fair workme
have been busy dismantling the old temporary

_Aquacade tank, remodeling the stage, providin

dressing room facilities, and constructing new
permanent, modern outdoor swimming and divin I
pools between the amphitheatre and the stage.

The new pool, which is of concrete faced wit
tile, is 300 feet long, 33 feet in width at th
ends, and 70 feet in the center. At each end ther
are diving pools II feet deep and diving tower ‘
with 3, 5 and 10 meter platforms. The depth 0
the pool is 3 feet 6 inches at the edges to 4 feet i
the center. It will be fioodlighted at night. I
addition to providing public swimming facilities
the pool with the stage and 8,500 unobstructe
tiered seats, will be used to offer water carnivals.
pageants, concerts, and other spectacles.

Starting on July 27th the pool was open to the

'general public. On week days and Saturdays from

10:00 A. M. to 12:30 P. M. there is a free period.
for children under fourteen years of age when no
adults are admitted to the pool. After I :00 P. M.
on week days and Saturdays and all day on Sun-
days and holidays, a ten cent charge is made for
children under fourteen and a twenty cent chargd
for adults.

_—____J

of himself. Initiative, enterprise, self-reliance,'
perseverance, and self-confidence, which are the -
natural outcomes of fencing, are therefore traits I
obviously ingrained into its students. '

Nowhere has the writer presented a point for
fencing which he didn’t sincerely feel was true.
If the reader is the least bit doubtful of the claims
herein made, he is cordially invited to pick up a
foil and mask and try it for himself.

The Mill Creek Park Art Exhibit

(Continued from page 429)

park, but double that number viewed the paintings
in the lobby of the Central Y.M.C.A. during Na-
tional Art Week.

Mill Creek Park’s Art Exhibit is now a perma-
nent part of the park’s recreation program.

A New Memorial Park

HE TWENTY-ACRE Beekman estate on Long
Island overlooking Oyster Bay harbor has been
transferred to the township of Oyster Bay. The
property, donated by the Beekman Family Asso—
ciation, Mrs. Burgess Gurnee, and Arthur A. Bal-
lantine, former Under-Secretary of the Treasury
under President Hoover, is the largest outright
gift ever presented to the township.

1 Private ownership of the property dates back to
1653 when Henry Townsend received it from the
township with the stipulation that he maintain a
Imill there. The Beekman family purchased the
roperty from the heirs of Mr. Townsend thirty
ears ago.

.The ancient “turf—and-twig” ritual of Anglo-
Saxon days was used in the formal transference.
r‘ representative of the family dug a piece of turf
nd cut a twig from a tree and presented both of
'hem to the Town Supervisor.

The park, which will have a thousand feet of
jeach front on the harbor, includes Mrs. Gurnee’s
home and the Ballantine estate. It will be known
-s the Gerard Beekman Memorial Park.

  
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
   

Indian Music and Dances
(Continued from page 434)
An awareness of the fact that Indian songs and

ances are not simple should not deter us from
15ing them in our programs. Some of the songs
re more melodic than others, and some of the
ances are more consistent rhythmically than
thers. It is these songs and dances we should
eek out when planning an Indian program. Mrs.
Florence H. Botsford, in her collection of Folk
‘ongs, Vol. I and in her Folk Songster has given
. 5 several Indian songs with fine translations for
ur practical use. Julia M. Buttree, in her Rhythm
f the Redman, gives us the authentic dances step
by step with the appropriate music, pantomime
nd “props.”

These are but some of a great multitude of in—
eresting facts about the musical tradition of the
Indian, and although most of the facts stated here
ay be applied generally to all the tribes, each
tribe is a study in itself with its own songs, dances,
ustoms, traditions, and ceremonies. The study of
ne tribe will lead you on and on into an all-
bsorbing adventure—an adventure that you will
ovant to share with your groups, an adventure that
IS truly American!

NOTE: A number of cities have introduced the
Indian theme into their playground programs.

A NEW MEMORIAL PARK 473

 

More durable and
sturdy. more con-
venient. easier to
handle. better ap-
pearing and re-
quire 300% less
storage space. The
new Mitchell Fold-
O-Leg Table. with
its smooth, tubular,
stee1.set-back legs,
assures greater
seating capacity
and long life. Used
in hundreds of
schools and rec-
reation centers
throughout the

country.

Mitchell Products include Playground and Swim-
ming Pool Equipment. Dairy Barn Equipment

and Folding Stages for Music Groups.

MI'ICHELI. MFG. C0.

3034 w. ronnsr HOME ave. MILWAUKEE, wrsconsm
— SINCE 1896 —

 

The experience of Reading, Pennsylvania, has been
recorded in a bulletin entitled “An Indian Sum—
mer in Reading” obtainable from the National
Recreation Association for ten cents. Another
bulletin, “Indian Lore in Recreation Programs,”
contains a list of source materials for Indian
music, dances, handcrafts, plays and ceremonials.
Price, five cents. Complete directions for making
an Indian bonnet will be found in a third bulletin.
Price, fifteen cents.

Facilities Available to Colored Citizens
(Continued from page 442)

doah National Park in Virginia, provides a num—
ber of recreational facilities.

The Bureau of Colored Work

Some time ago RECREATION carried an observa-
tion which may well be referred to:

“Many communities have not yet learned of the possible
help in developing a program available to colored groups
and are unacquainted with the activities of the Bureau of
Colored Work of the National Recreation Association
and with the various plans and studies made by this or-
ganization. such communities or organizations within
such communities, as well as already established recrea-
tion departments, will lind valuable sources of aid in
meeting the problems involved. One thing the Bureau of
Colored Work has learned, and that is that in nearly
every section the Negro group, so far as much of the
program of activities is concerned, represents a commu-
nity within a community. That is, a general city pro~
gram may be ever so good intentioned, but it does not
reach far enough to include colored groups. Special
planning to reach them and make available the program
seems a need everywhere.”

474 FACILITIES AVAILABLE TO COLORED CITIZENS

Join the
INNER CIRCLE

OF HAPPY
TEACHERS

who make their work
EASIER and more
RESULTFUL THROUGH

the USE of

Junior Arts and Activities

There are 915,000 grade teachers in the United States.
Within this great group is an inner circle of conscien-
tious, serious-minded teachers who make their work
more enjoyable and more effective for their pupils by
utilizing the wealth of valuable project material, units,
and ideas that come to them each month in JUNIOR
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES—the fastest growing elementary
teacher’s magazine in America today!

. . . in fact, THIS is the ONLY teacher’s magazine that
contains such a storehouse of practical,usable material
and information presented in a way that captures the
interest of every pupil.

NEW FEATURES, in addition to the departments
already established (music, safety, classroom methods,
correlations of art and crafts with the other subjects
in the curriculum, articles on art instruction, and
units) will be added in September. Among these will
be creative writing in the elementary grades, new
methods for integrated programs for school work,
plays, programs, travels, etc.-——all designed for ONE

purpose—to HELP YOU.

Every issue contains material for the primary, inter-
mediate, and upper grades covering regular and
special subjects.

SUBSCRIBE NOW! 0 PAY LATER!

Join the Inner Circle-of teachers who subscribe for
JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES. Don’t miss a single issue

—10 BIG ISSUES ONLY $2.00. No need to send

money now. If, for any reason, you are not entirely
satisfied after you receive your first copy (the big
September issue) you may cancel your subscription
within 10 days.

MAIL COUPON TODAY
I'll-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlI-IIII-Ilmlllllllnlllllll

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES R—9-41
740 Rush Street. Chicago. Illinois

Please enter my subscription for JUNIOR ARTS AND
ACTIVITIES for

E] I year at $2.00 E] 2 years at $3.00 (a saving of $|.00)

If I am not satisfied I may cancel my subscription within
10 days after receipt of the September issue. Otherwise
I shall remit on or before October 6.

 

Name ........................................................................................ ..

Address .................................................................................... ..

City ................................................ .. State ............................ ..
m

Sometimes the problem of race adjustment pre—
sents seemingly insuperable obstacles. The prob
lems involved in developing participation or avail
ability for colored groups are difficult. Too ofte
services are walled in by limitations and menta
attitudes which leave the colored citizen quite re-
mote from benefits created by public and private
recreation facilities and programs. His opportunit’
for exposure to their character-building an
morale-building values remains unassured. It is
encouraging, however, to note a steady increas I
in opportunities for colored boys and girls an -
adults made possible by the national recreation“
movement. I

The part played by the Bureau of Colored Wor
of the National Recreation Association, in stimuli
lating interest in recreation, covers many phases
quite aside from developing facilities, especially
buildings. The problems faced involve the secur-
ing of the right kind of leadership in the group
itself, or perhaps such matters as how to financ
a program. Herein lies the advantage of a nationaj
staff experienced in interracial relationships, or
ganization and educational activities related to a
phases of community recreation, such as the Na
tional Recreation Association has maintained.

Assistance is also rendered when requested by I
sharing the information already classified regard-
ing competent colored recreation workers. The
Association keeps a record of available persons on
request. No charge is made for such service either
to the community or to the persons registered.

The leaders fostering recreation recognize there

'are contributing factors in the development of

useful citizenship and sane living other than play
programs. Nevertheless, a very definite conviction
obtains that adequate' provision for community
recreation represents a fundamental element in-
fiuencing for good the people of any creed or
color given the opportunity to use standard recrea—
tion facilities. .

As a nation, planning to face realistically the
social problems of defense, we may find it advan-
tageous to “step up” our efforts to provide whole—
some recreation opportunities for our colored citi-
zens who represent ten per cent of our potential
defenders in uniform and in industry, and their
families. To disregard this responsibility or strategy
will impair both the morale and the morals of just
that proportion of our nation’s service and civilian
strength. Defense or peace, the need for basic rec—
reational balance, if recognized, will mean much
to our common welfare.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Model Plane Annual l94l-l942

Edited by Frederick P. Graham and Reginald M.
Cleveland. Robert M. McBride and Company, New
York. $2.00.

IN TEXT and pictures this book presents a comprehensive
description of the latest developments in the making
and flying Of model aircraft. It contains a consecutive
account Of every phase of this fascinating hobby. The
various types of model planes which have been both
manufactured and privately built during the past decade
are shown in construction and in Hight, and the detailed
steps in present-day construction are described. The
high points of important meets are analyzed in one
chapter. There are profuse illustrations.

The Amateur Photographer's
Handbook

By A. Frederick Collins. Revised by Aaron Sussman.
Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New York. $2.50.

UBLISHED FIRST in 1925 and reprinted a number of

times, this widely used handbook has now been
completely revised and a number of new chapters have
been added. It is designed “to help everyone who wants
to make pictures and doesn’t want to spend years or a
fortune to get them.” Even though you may not be one
of this group, you cannot fail to be interested in the
Opening chapter telling of the growth of photography.

Start Today

By C. Ward Crampton, MD. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $1.75.

UNDER PRESENT WORLD CONDITIONS it is of the greatest
importance that every good citizen in the United
States keep himself or herself physically prepared for
effective service to the nation. Dr. C. Ward Crampton
out of his long experience has prepared “Start Today—
Your Guide to Physical Fitness” to help meet this uni-
versal need. Recreation systems and other groups which
are trying to help in making men and women physically

fit at this time will want to face the issues raised by
Dr. Crampton.

Working at Play in Summer Camps

By Abbie Graham. The Womans Press, New York. $1.50.
MISS GRAHAM WRITES delightfully here on making the

summer camp a truly enriching experience. The
book is addressed primarily to the younger counselors in
a summer camp, and its purpose is to help such coun-
selors become more skilled in working at other people’s
Play. In this, as in her other books on camping, Miss
Graham shows that sympathetic understanding Of life
Situations which makes the simplest experience important.

Start 'Em Sailing!
By Gordon C. Aymar. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.00.

THE NOVICE WHO USES this book as a guide can readily

learn the fine points of sailing a small boat. In ad-
dition to the actual operation of the boat, such subjects
are discussed as Meeting Squalls, Care Of the Sails,
Capsizing, Rules Of the Road, Fog Signals and Lights,
and Putting Up fer the Winter and Fitting Out in the
Spring. The volume is illustrated with sixty-two photo-
graphs and forty-four diagrams.

Games the World Around

Four Hundred Folk Games for an Integrated Program
in the Elementary School. By Sarah Ethridge Hunt

and Ethel Cain. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.50.

ACOLLECTION 0F PLAY ACTIVITIES from thirty—five coun-
tries, this book is in reality a practical interpretation
of the folklore of these countries which will help children
understand and appreciate the customs Of these various
peoples. Much Of the value of the book lies in the dis-
cussion of folklore and the interpretive material which
precedes the description of the games.

Time on Their Hands

A Report on Leisure, Recreation, and Young People.

Prepared for the American Youth Commission by
C. Gilbert Wrenn and D. L. Harley. American Council
on Education, Washington, D. C. $2.00.

IN THIS NEW VOLUME on the needs Of youth the authors

consider speciAcally the problem of their leisure and
of their recreational status. The discussion of a new
meaning Of recreation which prefaces the book is fol-
lowed by an appraisal of the kinds and amounts of
recreation available to youth in relation to their real
needs and environment. Finally the volume is concerned
with the part agencies, both public and private, have in
seeing that these needs are met. A summary chapter
lists the major Objectives and recommendations for
recreation planning.

This is a significant and timely book which recreation
workers will welcome. ‘

It's Fun to Make Things

By Martha Parkhill and Dorothy Spaeth. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $2.00.

ANY OF THE ARTICLES described in this book are

made from scraps and samples given the'authors
by stores and manufacturing plants, and none costs more
than a few cents. The instructions given for making each
article are supplemented with working drawings and
photographs of the article as it should look when com-
pleted. Materials and their sources are listed.

475

476 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Digest of Laws Relating to
Local Parks and Recreation.

United States Department of the Interior, National.
Park Service, Washington, D. C. $1.00.

The National Park Service has rendered a valuable
service to the recreation movement in the preparation
of this digest. There has long been a need for a careful
analysis of state legislation relating to local parks and
other recreation services. In this comprehensive volume,
such legislation is summarized state by state. The digests
of laws within each state are grouped for easy reference
according to the class of city or types of local govern-
mental units tO which they apply. Separate sections are
devoted to laws relating to schools and school districts,
to regional park districts, to special facilities such as
swimming pools or public forests, or to special agencies
such as park and playground associations. In every
instance, citations accompany the digest so that the
reader may readily find the complete text of a particular
law. ..

The volume does not contain references to legislative
acts granting powers to individual cities nor is any
attempt made to summarize various types of park and
recreation legislation for the country as a whole. The
volume affords a ready reference, however, to any
locality desiring to know the powers under which it
may provide park or recreation service.

The Municipal Year Book 1941.

Edited by Clarence E. Ridley and Orin F. Nolting.
The International City Managers’ Association, Chi-
cago. $5.00.

The eighth edition of The Municipal Year Book has
a number of features which will add to its usefulness.
The first of these is population data based on the 1940
federal census. A number of new sections and articles
have been added, such as statistics on municipal health
departments. Other sections have been expanded to in-
clude new information. At the same time such valuable
sections have been retained as a listing of municipal
officers and, in common with previous issues, the 1941
edition contains data on developments in 1940 in parks
and recreation, schools of education, public libraries,
public works, and similar services.

American Youth Hostels Handbook 1941.

Edited by Isabel and Monroe Smith. American
Youth Hostels, Inc., Northfield, Mass. $50.

This attractive booklet is full of information for those
who would make hosteling the open road to the open
spaces. A list of hostels is given with directions on how
to reach them. There are a number of articles Of general
interest.

Federal Aids to Local Planning.

National Resources Planning Board. U. S. Govern-
ment Printing thce, Washington, D. C. $.30.

Here is a guide to the services and data available in
the federal government for use in connection with local
planning. The statement contains information about the
activities of forty-six Federal agencies whose work is
most directly related to the activities of local govern-
ments. This book of 152 pages represents a valuable
source of reference material for individuals and local

groups wishing to know of the services of the national
government.

Meet the Gang.

By Charlotte Himber. Association Press, 347 Madi-
son Avenue, New York. $.50.

This booklet tells how the Y.M.C.A. by its family
polic1es and gang programs is serving boys forced to
live in underprivileged neighborhoods. Out of its experi-
ence the Y.M.C.A. lists the principles it considers basic

to a constructive program of activities for underprivileged

boys.

Teach Yourself to Play the Guitar.

By Nola Arndt. Home Institute, New York. $.15.
Another in the series of Home Institute booklets, th
very practical publication represents a simple home stu
course designed to give the would-be player a corre
foundation in guitar playing.

Studies in Topological and Vector Psychology I.

By Kurt Lewin, Ronald Lippitt, and Sibylle Korsc
Escalona. Obtainable from Iowa Child \Velfare R
search Station, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iow
Paper bound, $1.35; cloth bound, $1.70.

This study, I of the series Iowa Studies in Child We
fare, contains in Part Two the report of a study by M
Lippitt of the effect of democratic and authoritari
group atmosphere. It is an account of the first exper
ments on “social climate” carried out with two clubs
eleven-year-old children—One under authoritarian leade
ship, the other under democratic leadership. The co
clusions drawn as a result of these experiments will be
interest to recreation workers, club leaders, and othe
working with children. The authors warn against t
hasty generalizations. The result of this prelimina
survey, however, has seemed to them fruitful enou
to warrant further development of the experiment
methods and techniques involved.

 

Oflicers and Directors of the Nationa
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the B0
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F.,GREGG BEMIS, Boston, MaSS.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore. ‘
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, W'ash. l

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.

.4-

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.

MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.

ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa. 1
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa. '

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me. _ ,
MRS. OGDE‘N L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

MRS. JAMES \V. \VADSWORTH, Washington,, D. C.

J. C. WALSII, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY \VOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

