Recreation Workers Help to Win Victory
WE are all in the war.

All must work at a real job or light.
Victory is now our goal.
One of the central jobs is recreation.

Recreation is central for physical litness, mental litness, ability to live comfortably with
others, keeping thumbs up.

There is no gain in stopping living because we are lighting, or our sons have gone to
one of the fronts.

You can't work all the time, light all the time.
You work better, light better if you relax in between and get as little tense as may be.

And then, anyway, for the future you want to keep up the habit of living a little each
day.

When black-outs come, much may be crowded back into the home. Then music, songs,
games, social activity become important. As in times of infantile paralysis and other
epidemics municipal recreation systems have accepted heavy responsibility for
broadcasting and advising on home recreation activity, so now the need is similar.

In air raid shelters recreation leaders, club leaders have great importance, particu-
larly for active boys upward of sixteen years of age. The devil linds much for idle
hands to do. Older boys to save their lives cannot long sit still in complete idle-
ness. Wise leaders must give a certain minimum amount of guidance in free time
activity in the air shelters, if we are to keep our boys from delinquency.

In war time, in emergencies, physical activity, conditioning, keeping lit are important.
Recreation leaders must take the lead for those who turn to the community centers.

English children, we are told, have been taught to play Run, Rabbit, Run as they duck
under seats and benches in schools when the air siren sounds. And they play their
little game and call back and forth to each other as they wait for the all-clear
signal. Sometimes they even want to go on lying under the forms after the need
has passed.

English children have been taught to skip and sing when it is necessary to march to
an underground shelter, and all this helps to minimize the shock.

Our children must_be protected as far as may be from war—shock.
Keep cool and sane through a certain minimum amount of recreation.

Buying war bonds will not leave as much money to pay for commercial recreation.

Municipal recreation systems can help families lind inexpensive community and home
recreation.

If the war continues for a long time probably at least a half million volunteers should
be trained to serve their country through recreat10n.

Municipal recreation systems can help and are helping in training volunteers.

These tasks are over and above the effective services being rendered by municipal recre-
ation departments to men in uniform and to workers in war industrles.

When victory comes, as come it must, recreation workers Will be proud of the part

they have played.
W 6W06u/1/

 

JANUARY, I942

 

589

JAN 131942

590

"Winfen‘imeI which formerly closed ifs heavy manfle on oufdoor
acfivifies of fhe people of fhe snowlandsI now opens a visfa
comparable fo fhe summer season. Winfer vacafions are now
being faken by business and professional people: fhe summer
family week end af fhe shore now has ifs complemenf of fhe
family oufing af fhe ski resorf or a snow carnival. Oufdoor exer-
cise in fhe sun. much needed in wim‘erl has ifs answer in skiing.
a sporf in which anyone can find fun and good healfh in ifs
parficipafion."—From The Complete Ski Guide.

5'
4

d'Ii
’.

a. n .—
. W...- ,, ,dh—

Photo by Ray Farsber

i
l
l
I

 

 

A Tradition That Never Grows Old!

HE PLACE was ancient Rome ;
Tthe day, February 14th ;_the
year, 271 AD. There was

an air of excitement in the
streets as people congregated in
small groups to discuss an event
that had taken place on one of Rome’s seven hills.
Rome’s city fathers were divided in their opin-
ions, for on that morning a man had been con—
demned to die because he had held fast to an ideal.
Valentine, Bishop of Spoleto, was burned at the

stake because he believed love was sufficient unto

‘itself and that neither rank nor wealth, poverty
nor lowly station, should be considered when mar—
riage vows were to be taken.

The week before this fateful February morning,
Valentine had married the son of a famous Roman
senator to the daughter of a poor miller. This so
infuriated the senator that he had the priest ar-
rested, chained and dragged through the streets,
and later burned at the stake.

For nearly seventeen hundred years that fate—
ful day has been celebrated in all lands as the
Feast of Romance to commemorate the martyr-
dom of young love’s patron saint.

Several other explanations are given for the
familiar custom of sending love tokens, cards of
greeting and the like, and for the various social
activities associated with St. Valentine’s Day. One
legend has it that St. Valentine was accustomed to
going about from house to house leaving food on
the doorsteps of the poor and that the custom of
sending Valentine greetings, at first anonymously,
grew out of that custom. Another explanation
connects the modern celebration of the day with
the survival of the Roman festival, Lupercalia,
which occurred on February I 5th. A festival of
similar nature was observed in old England and
Scotland and to some extent in other European
countries.

Both Chaucer and Shake—
speare refer to the observ-
ance of the festival on the
day in early spring when
birds first choose their mates.
The custom long prevailed
on that day of drawing lots
to decide which young men
and young women should be

There are many legends concern-
ing the origin of St. Valentine's
Day. We give you the one which

without doubt has the greatest
significance for

"Perhaps St. Valentine's DayI more than
any other holiday. retains the spirit of the
original rites and festivals. Hang up your
cardboard hearts and festoon your colored
paper! Pan hides behind each gay trifle
and Juno smiles on the party! The shades
of Roman youths and maidens linger
about. warming themselves at your feastI
while good St. Valentine no doubt looks
on in consternation and embarrassment."

each other’s Valentine during
the ensuing year. The couples
thus drawn exchanged gifts, and
in some cases they were re—
garded as betrothed. Later the
custom of making presents on

young lovers!

St. Valentine’s Day was confined to the men. It "

has fallen into disuse in Great Britain, but the
sending of sentimental valentines and gifts of
flowers and candy on February 14th is still com—
mon in America.

Some Suggestions for the Observance of
Valentine’s Day

Valentine’s Day affords the recreation leader an
excellent opportunity to impress upon children the
lessons of friendship, unselfishness, and good will.
The sentimental associations of the day may easily
be kept in the background. For days or even
weeks beforehand, valentine—making may engage
the attention of younger children, and much of it
may be correlated with recreation activities. What
is more attractive than bird valentines? The
nature study class may well give some time to
coloring bird pictures, which may then be cut out
and pasted on the valentines. Flowers may be
treated in the same way, and in both instances
care should be taken to have the coloring true
to life.

The sewing class may make heart-shaped
sachets, pin cushions, and even scrapbooks. The
manual training class may fashion simple wooden
toys, while the cooking class may produce heart-
shaped biscuits, candies, or cookies. Even the very
little children can make valentines that will be a
delight to father or mother or teacher. They may
cut from red paper ten or a dozen hearts, print on
each one “Good for a half hour of work,” and
seal them in an envelope. The work done in re—

sponse to these “promissory

notes” will probably be the
most cheerful ever perform-
ed by the little valentine
makers ! Blotting pads of red
ornamented with white
hearts, and bookmarks and
napkin rings similarly dec—
orated are all very simple
to construct. Parents or

591

592 A TRADITION THAT NEVER GROWS OLD!

other adults to whom such tokens are given should
take care to make use of them, as nothing so
pleases a child as to believe that he has made
something which someone cannot do without.

On the afternoon of St. Valentine’s Day, after
the leader had discussed valentine legends and has
emphasized the doing-for-others idea, an exhibit
of valentines may be arranged to which each child
may contribute his best work.

The suggestion has been made by a recreation
worker that soon after the Christmas holidays
children might well examine their greeting cards

 

with the idea of salvaging bits of red and white,
silver and gold which might be used in making
valentines. The attractive paper which is used to
line some Christmas card envelopes should also '
be saved. Pictures cut from magazines and seed
catalogues are important supplies, as is colored
paper-——-red is always popular. Invaluable to the
valentine supply box are the paper lace doilies
which may be secured in packages. A pair of
scissors, a pencil, and paste should be at hand.
Here are a few suggestions which may help you
in making some simple but attractive valentines:

A paper heart is folded accordion

tashion. and gaily colored streamers are
attached at the bottom.

Slash paper heart on broken lines. Open
out the two halves. Fold a strip of paper
accordion fashion. Mount the heart on
a lace doily and paste the tolded strip
on the center. When the two halves are
opened the steps will untold.

Cut flowers from colored construction
paper. Attach to strip of gilt paper and

paste to center of tolded doily. When
opened. the flowers will pop up.

Slash a piece of red paper 2” x4”
through the center to within a halt inch
of the edges. Roll it around a pencil
tightly. Fasten the marked ends together
with pastel and paste on a white paper
doily. You will have as a result a nose-
gay which, it smalll may serve as a bout-
toniere; it large' as a centerpiece.

Fold a piece of paper accordion tashion.
On tront told draw a halt heart and
strip as shown. Cut around the heart.
leaving tolds (x) uncut. When opened
up. strip acts as connecting link for
hearts. Join series of hearts together
and paste on square base.

 
   
   

II

III -

l
'I

ill
I

  

—
a... .
E"
:‘n

  

* \/ /\
IE

Vex

   

arm

HEWMEXICO COLORADO ARKANSAS TENNESSEE

 

CONFEDERATE BETSY ROSS

February Furlough

, ERE ARE suggestions for
‘ a party with a military

‘ atmosphere (farcical,
l we need not add I). Since sol-
.. diers, sailors, and marines
are sharing honors equally,
decorations should feature all
three services impartially.

Lights are made to resemble searchlights ; walls
are hung with flags——-the Betsy Ross flag, the Con—
federate flag, state flags, and Old Glory. These
may be easily made of paper. Located at strategic

points are such symbols as the goat, donkey and
bull dog.

At the entrance of the hall is a gangplank made
of boards placed at a slant of about six inches so
that it will be necessary for the guests to step down
into the hall. Rails make the gangplank more
realistic. This end of the hall is devoted to the
Navy and is decorated with ship’s bells, anchors,
mariner’s wheels, compasses, and life preservers.
A string of Navy signal flags spelling some suit-
able word adds a touch of realism.

The opposite end of the hall belongs to the
Army, and here appropriate effects are obtained
through the use of a back drop painted on wrap—
ping paper fitted together as a mural and featur-
ing pup tents, airplanes, and the like. Refreshments
may be served here either from a canteen or mess

tent. (The dispensers of the food wear K. P. arm
hands.)

If the hall is very large and requires more dec—
orations, varicolored triangular pennants may be
cut from crepe paper, pinned on lengths of rope

or wire and looped from wall to wall at least eight
feet above the floor.

Favors lend a festive air and at the same time

This party has been planned
for the men in uniform and is
dedicated to their enioyment

By RUTH BACHMAN

serve as excellent devices for
mixing people and breaking
the ice. Paper hats or lapel
hats or chevrons may be
passed out at the door. In
this way each participant will
be provided with a partner.
The hats suggested as favors
are patterned on those worn by sailors (white),
marines (blue), and the doughboy in the Army.
Each has an appropriate name attached such as
Admiral Dewey, General Butler, or Washington.
The girls also have hats of the same models bearing
the names Mrs. Dewey, Mrs. Butler, or Mrs.
VV'ashington.

“Captain’s Orders”

As each person enters he is given a typed sheet
of paper containing “Captain’s orders” including
such commands as:

(1) Introduce yourself to the first lady you meet.

(2) Collect four autographs of persons named
Smith.

(3) Introduce two people and ask them to dance.
(4) See that all seated ladies meet their partners.

(5) Persuade three men from the Army, Navy,
and Marines to sing a trio.

(6) Find the tallest person in the room.

At a specified time everyone will be asked to
prove that he has followed “Captain’s orders.”

Those who have not will be required to pay a
forfeit:

Forfeits

(I) Talk for three minutes on a crow’s nest.

(2) Walk the plank. (Walk along a chalk line
looking down through spyglasses.)

593

594 FEBRUARY FURLOUGH

(3) Blindfolded, stand on the plank while two
people lift it. (They actually raise and lower
'it a few inches, then place it on the floor.)
The blindfolded person has placed his hands
on the shoulders of another who stoops way
down, giving the blindfolded person the feel—
ing of being high in the air. He is then told
to jump off.

 

(4) Sit on a bottle with the heel of one foot on the
toes of the other and light a candle.

( 5) Describe a top sergeant.
(6) Sing a song.

The party is opened by the playing of reveille
on a bugle. A fife and drum corps made up of a
soldier, sailor, and marine lead the grand march.

Refreshments are announced by mess call. Taps
notify the guests that the party has come to an end.

Special Dances

Elimination. Paul
Revere astride a
broomstick elimi—
nates couples by rid-
ing up and saying,
“The enemy has
come 1”

Lincoln's Civil War
Tag Dance. The ladies
are “Southern belles,” the sailors are Confeder—
ates. It is up to the Yankees (soldiers and ma—

rines) to cut in and keep the Confederates from
dancing.

 

Enemy Territory Elimination. Post three or four
men around at different spots where they decide
upon a definite area about three yards square.
(They must shift their area each time.) When the
music stops, any dancers standing in these areas
' are considered in enemy territory and are captured
or eliminated.

Sham Battle. Each girl ties a balloon on her
ankle and all couples dance. The object is to

break everyone

else’s balloon in

the course of the

" dance and keep
your own intact.
M e s s C a l l

(Elimination

Dance). Chairs

are placed in a

row down the
center of the room, alternate chairs facing in op-
posite directions. There is one chair less than the
number of couples dancing. When mess call is
blown on the bugle, every girl must find a chair.
(Her partner may reserve it for her by placing
his hand on one.) Those who do not succeed in
reaching a chair are eliminated, and one chair is
removed each time the bugle blows.

Accumulation ("Girl in Every Port"). If there is
difficulty in getting the dancers on the floor, choose
a man from the Navy. Have him find a partner
and dance with her until the music stops (sixteen
measures), when each takes a new partner and
dances for sixteen measures, and so on.

 

Charades

 

Charades may portray historical events such as
Washington crossing the Delaware, Paul Revere’s
ride, Sherman’s march, the Boston tea party, and
so on.

Songs

Singing is of course important. Songs may in—
clude “America,” “The Star—Spangled Banner,”
“Marching On,” “Marching Through Georgia,”
“John Brown’s Baby,” “Anchor’s Aweig ,” “U.S.
Marine Song,” “Tipperary,” “Over There,” “Long,
Long Trail,” “My Buddy,” “Alouette,” “Parley
Vous,” and “Shipniates Forever.”

Groups interested in securing material on the
celebration of the holidays and special days occur-
ring in February may secure on request from the
National Recreation Association a list of the inex—
pensive material it has issued. Ask for a copy of
“Suggested Program Aids for St.Valentine’s Day,
Lincoln’s and VVashington’s Birthdays.”

   
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
    
  

ILLIONS of books
M will be provided
for men in the
armed forces of the
i United States and the
Merchant Marine through a
, National Defense Book Cam-
paign sponsored by the Ameri—
can Library Association, the
American Red Cross, and the
United Service Organizations.

" The date for the opening
of the book drive, which is
expected to provide between
five and ten million volumes for men of the armed
services and of the American Merchant Marine,
will be January 12, 1942.

Books obtained in the drive will be used to sup—
plement the library services provided by the gov-
ernment.

Miss Althea Warren, chief librarian of the Los
Angeles Public Library has been appointed as na—
tional director of the National Defense Book Cam-
paign, and will serve as secretary of the executive
board which is made up of representatives of the

National USO headquarters in the Empire State
Building in New York City.

The following eight national organizations have
each appointed, at the invitation of the executive
committee, a representa-

!,0

IS the slogan of a
campaign in which recreation depart:-
ments will want: to play'their parl;

"We Want: Books

By SUSAN M. LEE

Miss LeeI who is Third Vice-President
and Secretary of the Board of Directors
of the National Recreation AssociationI
is serving as the Association's repre-
sentative on the Advisory Committee
of National Defense Book Campaign.

three sponsoring organizations, with ofhces at-

National Defense Book Campaign

The collection cam-
paign is to be organized
on a state plan with a
director and executive
committee for each state,
and a local director and ex-
ecutive committee for all
cities and towns where book
gifts are to be collected.

Civilians throughout the
nation are asked to cooperate
in the campaign, delivering
whatever books they can give
to the nearest library, school,
or other collection center designated by the local
committee.

After books have been sorted and classified in
the local centers, reports will be sent to national
headquarters of the campaign where a central con—
trol system will assure equitable distribution. In
most instances books will be sent direct from the
local center to the nearest military base or service
club. Unbound magazines or newspapers will not
be handled in this campaign.

Oflicials associated with the campaign stress the
fact that the interests of service men cover a wide
range of reading interests, including technical and
professional as well as general recreational material.

A number of communities, among them New York
City, have already con—

tive to assist in the cam-

paign:

t The American Merchant
Marine Library As—
sociation

Boy Scouts of America

Camp Fire Girls, Inc.

Girl Scouts, Inc.

. National Congress of

Parents and Teachers

|_| National Recreation As—

    
 

ciation

Work Projects Admin-
istration —— Library
Service Division

HOW COOPERATING ORGANIZATIONS
CAN HELP

At a meeting on December 3rd at campaign head- 6

quarters. it was suggested that advisory and co-
operating groups might help in the following ways:

I. By contributing workers to local campaigns

2. By having officers and workers prepared to serve
on state and local executive committees

3. By allowing their offices or headquarters to be
used as collection centers

4. By displaying in their offices or headquarters
posters and other publicity material supplied by
headquarters of the campaign

5. By encouraging publicity proiects such as the
making of posters in their organizations

6. By making announcement of the campaign to
their groups. and in club bulletins and magazines
asking their members to give books

ducted campaigns to col—
lect books for the men
in service. An article by
Charles H. English in
the April 1941 issue of
RECREATION tells of the
book showers _held in
Philadelphia. Here 197
public and parochial
schools took part in the
campaign, which result-
ed in gathering ap—
proximately 200,000
carefully selected maga—
zines and books for the

Navy Yard and for
camps in the vicinity.

59S

Service Men's Clubs as Hospitality Centers

From all parts of the country come accounts of the clubs and hospitality
centers being established for service men. New buildings are being erected.
Old stores, warehouses, schools are being reconditioned through community
effort and put into all-day, and often all-night use. Many stories could be told
about these centers which, to men in all branches of the service, are the symbol,
of the communities’ interest in them. A few typical instances are given here.

"The Golden Gate ls
Open Wide" -

By JOSEPHINE RANDALL

Superintendent
San Francisco Recreation Commission

AN FRANCISCO, strategically centered on our
Pacilic Coast, is a natural military defense
area. A city of supreme and exotic beauty,
situated for the most part on the slopes of seven
hills which rise above the historic bay on one side
and the vast Pacific Ocean on the other, San Fran—
cisco now delights in playing host to the thousands
of soldiers, sailors, and marines stationed at the
twelve large military bases in the Bay area.
Sixteen thousand soldiers are quartered in the
famous military Presidio by the Golden Gate and
at other forts around the bay, while 35,000 more
men are within a few hours’ ride of the city by

 

army caravan. These men in the service of Uncle
Sam are finding the romantic home of the Spanish
Dons a place of beauty and adventure.

Priding herself on the spirit of rwelcome and
hospitality extended to visitors in this historic
metropolis, San Francisco immediately set about
helping the fellow citizens assigned here for duty
in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast
Guard enjoy their stay.

In December, 1940, Mayor Angelo J. Rossi
called together a representative citizens’ commit-
tee composed of leaders in civic, social, military,
and educational organizations, to discuss the needs
and to formulate plans for providing the trainees
not only a hearty welcome but a sustained-pro-
gram of worthwhile recreation and entertainment.

Number One accomplishment was the “go-

.ahead” signal on the nation’s first municipally—

owned and constructed Hospitality House for the
exclusive use of men in the service. All building
materials were supplied by the city; local union
labor volunteered its time, and carpenters, paint-
ers, plumbers, and plasterers as-
signed by the Building Trades
Council worked in their off-hours
and late at night to complete the
structure absolutely free of labor
costs. Located at the Civic Center,
in the very heart of the down-
town district, Hospitality House

.-' -
, _

True to its name. "Hospitality
House" is offering the service
men the opportunities for social
recreation which they crave.
Games and dancing, music. an
tools and materials for making
thingsl if their tastes lie in
that direction' are all here.

SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS 597

Local union labor
built this center
I as its contribution
to the service
' men. Members
volunteered their
time, working in
their free hours
and often late
into the night to
finish the build-

ing in record time.

.5, n
 'i u Gr.

' . z
 f p «1-19 .' 7'
1’ J p , (
., v I

"t

i?

I9
'I

l l
u
l

;.‘ is a place where the men can gather as at their
I. own club, relax, refresh themselves, and make ar-
} nangements and plans for their time when away
from the Post.
, q The main feature is a large lounge, which has
' hardwood floors and is furnished with light, com-
fortable furniture and small rugs which can be
" rolled back to provide for impromptu dancing. A
f large radio phonograph and piano furnish music.
here are reading, writing, and library rooms,
. bles for cards and other games, daily newspapers
' f all major cities, private telephone booths, locker
nd rest rooms. One of the most important and
popular rooms is the kitchen where refreshments
issued without charge to the service men are pre-
pared. Assignments are made to the hundreds of
clubs and organizations to act as hostesses and
take charge for a particular day. Each enlisted
than on entering is given a booklet containing de—
ritailed information about
places to go and things to

see, entertainments, facili— " The Service Man's,.Guide which Miss Randall
mentions in her article is an attractively illus-
trated booklet of information regarding places
of interest in or near San Francisco. At the
back of the book are several pages of detach-
able coupons entitling men in uniform to free
admission to a number of local theaters and to
wrestling matchesl swimming pools and other
sports centersI and also to a twenty-five per
cent discount on hotel rates. Two detachable
post cards and a blank page for "Important
Notes" complete this bookletI which bears'
the title. "Something Doing in San Francisco.‘I

' ties available, and included
is a Script of compliment-
ary coupons to shows, res-

taurants, dances, and
sports events.

Completed in record
time, Hospitality House

.opening‘ was a gala one—-
'a gigantic week-end cele-
‘ bration, a huge invitational

 

 p  _:_   . .. . ,.  . ,1. “'   4- __ 
. . .  .. ,1. . 
' is?  :3: ‘ - JEN-14? , ’

\ , f ..  ‘xsew ‘omWJ-cgtw,%wwy“WtswwteAmwas Ag;.¢.¥$§a.;d  ‘_ {I A

Courtesy Redwood Empire Association

all-star Hollywood stage show in the Civic Audi-
torium with 10,000 soldiers as guests. On the fol-
lowing day a conducted tour of the city’s forty-
nine mile scenic drive saw thousands of persons
chauffeuring service men in the family car. Singu-
lar, indeed, was the sight of lads from the Middle
West or inland states, who, on first glimpsing the
vast Pacific, were so impressed that they dashed
shouting from the cars, sped across the sands, and
rushed right into the surf! After the drive these
boys were dinner guests at the homes of those
whose cars had made the tour. 'These forty-nine
mile guest tours are now a regular Sunday feature.

Following the fanfare of an official welcome, the
committee, with wholehearted civic support, en—
thusiastically tackled the task of continuing a good
job. Working hand in hand with commanding

officers of the various posts, the things most needed

and desired were provided.

The San Francisco Rec-
reation Department placed
its outstanding athletic
unit, the twelve—acre Funs-
ton playheld and club-
house, at the disposal of
the enlisted men stationed
at the Presidio, only a few
blocks distant. Here they
engage in nearly every
sport —— baseball, softball,
tennis, basketball, volley-
ball; golf driving cages,

598 SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS

putting greens, and horse—
shoe links are available,
and there are many night
activities as well. In addi-
tion to the regular munici-
pal athletic leagues in-
which the service teams
take part, there are special
tournaments conducted by
the Recreation Depart-
ment exclusively for teams
from the camps.

A series of Thursday evening dances in the
Funston Recreation Center have proved tremend—
ously popular. The girls are chosen from the long
list of industrial and commercial firms taking part
in Department athletic and social activities, and
from memberships of various playground and
community center clubs. The soldiers are invited
through the commanding officer, each company
receiving its' invitation by turn. Music of the eight
piece W PA orchestra starts at eight 'o’clock and
continues until twelve. The recreation leaders and
hostesses introduce the service men .to the girls,
and through informal dances and games keep them
happily engaged finding new partners or seeking
favorites among the dancers.

Hallowe’en was the occa-
sion of a costume party with
papier-maché goblins
and witches gazing down
from the blue shadows
of the gymnasium raft-
ers on scenes of festive
broom dances, apple
bobbing, and forfeit
games. The boys, gen-
erally, give little evi-
dence of shyness when
seeking a partner from
amongst the many pretty
and attractive young
ladies. It is at these
dances that many of the
boys and girls have
made acquaintances that
now are treasured.
Often the young men
receive invitations to the
homes of the girls and
enjoy the pleasure of
dinner and a social eve-
ing with the family.

"Service men. meet your friends here!ll This

is the invitation appearing on a card issued
by the Recreation Committee of the Philadel-
phia Council of Defense. and the "here" re-
ferred to is the Hospitality Center for ser-
vice men. The card, printed in red and blue
and carrying the insignia of the Center—two
clasped hands—also contains a map showing
.the location of the Center. An interesting
feature of the Philadelphia program is the fact
that the cards are given service men by
policemen as they meet them on the streets.

The Thursday night dances at Funston
Recreation Center are so popular that
invitations to them are highly prized

 

Rumor has it that bids to
these dances are in great
demand, and barter at the
army post has brought
high prices for some of the
highly prized pasteboards!

Besides athletics and
socials, the trainee finds
many opportunities for
self - expression t h r 0 u gh
hobby and craft activities.
A photography center,
open daily, evenings, and week ends, finds the men
engaged in using the camera and dark room fa-
cilities, the enlargers and the library; field trips
and studio work are enjoyed by the more ad-
vanced_army photo fans.

The director at the Drama Studio gives instrch
tion in the making of puppets, shepherd pipes,
string belts, and purses. Opportunities to take
part in plays, choral groups, vocal or instrumental
music~are provided. Bulletins of additions to the
regular programs are posted throughout the camps,
as well as at the Hospitality House and other ser-
vice headquarters.

One hundred and thirty miles south lies Cali-
fornia’s largest army train—
ing camp, Fort Ord. Here
32,000 soldiers away from
any city or town must
fill their entire leisure
time at the post. Just
before war maneuvers
week—end dances have
been held at Ford Ord,
the trainees inviting the
girls of San Francisco
to be their guests. The
Southern Pacific offer-
ed special rates for the
trips, a set of barracks
were converted into
girls’ dormitories, and
the city shared in solv-
ing the problem of the
smaller communities.

During maneuvers
and war games, as many
as 15,000 enlisted men
have at one time- en-
camped in our Golden l
Gate Park, on our play-
fields and our beaches.

SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS 599

The residents near these bivouacs welcome the
boys who are off duty into their homes for dinner
and the evening.

Marching units, starting from the Presidio,
cross town to the forty-two acre .Crocker Amazon
Playtield, and pitch their pup tents on the turf for
an overnight stay. In the morning they compete
in games of baseball, pushball, and soccer, take
refreshing showers, and prepare for the return hike.

Dances at the Aquatic Park are open to all ser-
vice men, and while accommodating huge num-
- bers, are not as
satisfactory as the
more informal,
smaller dances
with a limited
number of guests.

Every other
Tuesday ’evening
the famous old
pioneer Trocadero
Rancho, now the
Sigmund Stern
Memorial Grove,
is the setting of
parties for groups.
of as small as fifty

to seventy—five
trainees. Here the
boys and girls
d a n c e t o t h e
strains of recorded
music and enjoy
the homelike at-
mosphere of games
in the parlor and
the singing of fa-
lvorite songs
around the piano.
On warm evenings
the barbecue pits and picnic grounds are used for

weiner roasts, popping corn 'and toasting marsh-
mallows.

 

l Thanksgiving week the phones of the army
camps were deluged with calls from all over the
city inviting the boys away from home to come
out to the house for a turkey dinner with all the
i‘trimmings. So many invitations were extended

qthat there were not enough of service men to go
:“round”!

Instances of individual enthusiasm are exem—
[plifled by the generous action of a lady who filled

her box in the diamond horseshoe during evenings
of the opera season with trainees from the camps,
and furthermore, insisted that all her guests be
privatesl. There are, too, the ticket committees
that obtain reduced rates or free admissions for
the men in ,uniform and send them to the com-
manding officer to distribute to the men in the
camps.

Much has been said of the federal financial as-
sistance given to communities whose location and
industries are directly related to national defense.

 

Courtesy Chicago Park District

Most of this money has been allocated to the
smaller communities which would otherwise have
no way of providing recreation or wholesome en-
tertainment to the men stationed near those towns.
Up to the present time this city has had no funds
from such a source, but is meeting the influx of
thousands of troops in its own way and through its
own efforts. There is much to offer here, and. from
all indications Uncle Sam’s boys are accepting the-
offers; morale is considered extremely high and”
with everybody eagerly doing their utmost for
“our boys,” it is destined to stay high.

SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS

 

A Service Club in the Heart
' of Chicago
By V. K. BROWN

Director of Recreation Division
Chicago Park District

HICAGo’s THREE MILLION people are turning
C this mid-west metropolis into just another
home town for thousands of men in uniform.
Members of civic groups, service clubs, churches,
school and municipal departments are entertain-
ing 7,000 soldiers, sailors and marines each week
at the city's oflicial “open
house.”

An abandoned fourteen-
story building which once
housed the Elks’ Club has
been transformed into a cen-
ter for the service men who
spend their free evenings and
week ends in the “windy

The story of Chicago's program for the
service men developed through the co-
operation of public and private agencies
is a stirring one. It bears evidence to
the fact that the people of America's
second largest city are extending a gra-
cious welcome to the boys in uniform who
know they will always find an open door
awaiting them in the heart of Chicago.

city.” The Mayor’s Committee on National De—
fense has established a sub-committee under the
direction of Frank Loomis to operate this cen-
trally-located club with the cooperation of many
civic organizations.

The Service Men’s Center was originally
financed by a fund which remained from war
camp community operations of the last war. Since
the fund was not adequate, however, the city of
Chicago has helped to finance the work. Extensive
reconditioning was necessary before the building
could be put into active use, but this problem was
solved when technical workers on city pay rolls
contributed labor for painting and repairs. Fur-
nishings for the Center have
been the gifts of local mer-
chants and manufacturers.

Mayor Kelly has adhered
to the policy of making this
a completely municipal proj-
ect operated by personnel
from public agencies, with the
exception of an information

SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS 601

' desk manned by the Tra- _
. velers Aid. The USO pro-
p‘ vided some limited funds
h, for a staff while the WPA

i
l
I

l

' operations of the build-

assigned a number of«its
remaining workers to the
Center. The Park Dis—
trict has supplied the full—
time services of Ralph
Nelson, one of its most
capable leaders, and the
daily part—time service of
District Executive 0. C.
Rose who has also vol-
unteered many week-end
and holiday hours.

The city of Chicago
has now appropriated
$125,000 from municipal
funds and is underwrit—
ing all of the repairs and

ing. President Dunham

. has authorized the Park District to operate the

Center as a park fieldhouse, assuming. responsibility
for leadership, janitorial service, heat and light.
Eight floors of the building are used for recrea-

. tion of all kinds. Each Saturday night finds soldiers

and sailors waltzing or “jitter-bugging” on the
fourth Hoor to the rhythms of a modern swing
band, while up on the eighth floor strains of hill-
billy music can be heard between husky square
dance calls.

In the fifth floor canteen little groups of men
are watching an entertainment and leaning hun—
grin over the cookie jar. Others are amusing
themselves with billiards, archery and even pitch—
ing horseshoes in the sixth and seventh floor game
rooms. The quiet third floor lounge is reserved
for those who want to curl up and read a book,
write a letter home, or just hold hands with their

; girl friends.

Local girls who are invited to the Center’s
parties and dances have been carefully investigated

4 and selected. Some responsible citizen must spon-

sor each girl who is then interviewed and pro—

_ vided with card credentials hearing her photo-

graph. The women’s division of the defense com-

. mittee has given many days of work to this

registration.

Movies and amateur shows are given at the
Center every Sunday afternoon. The theaters of
the city have joined together to present a weekly

 

professional variety program on Saturdays with
the best stage and radio talent. Legitimate thea-
ters have also responded weekly with passes for
the men, and tickets are sent to the Center for
operas, college and professional football games,
moving pictures, and special sporting events.

The VVPA tour service is arranging Saturday
afternoon tours to Chicago’s large department
stores, museums, industrial plants, and other points
of interest. A special trip to Chinatown is con-
ducted on Saturday nights.

Saturday night and Sunday attendance at the
Center sometimes reaches 4,000. The Saturday
crowd is already taxing the building’s facilities to
the straining point, but program changes are being
made to take care of the“ rapidly increasing
numbers.

Upper floors are being transformed into dormi-
tories. A system of hotel operation will be put into
effect so that men in transit and on convoy can be
provided with a night’s lodging. Dormitories will
accommodate approximately 200 men at a proba-
ble laundry fee of twenty-five cents. The hotels of
the city have arranged a dormitory system at
minimum cost for boys from near-by camps week-
ending in town, and the Center’s rooms will prob-
ably be reserved for special convoys forced to
spend the night in Chicago.

No charge is made to the men for either ,recre-
ation activities or canteen supplies. The free can-

602 SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS

teen service costs $800 a month, most of which
is donated by service, community and civic or-
ganizations volunteering to provide coffee. sand-
wiches and other refreshments for the men.

If a women’s club agrees to provide canteen sup-
plies for Sunday afternoon this may mean coffee
and cakes for more than 2,500 boys. On Satur-
days an average of 3,000 service men stream
through the building. and many baking hours are
needed to keep the cookie jar filled or to provide

doughnuts for even one evening.

Girls of a telephone exchange located two blocks
from the .Center have recently organized their
4.000 operators into a cookie-jar brigade. The girls
will regularly supply the canteen with batches of

cookies and small cakes.

The Center’s canteen book is open for reserva-
tions until January I, 1943. Groups have already
signed up to provide food for every Saturday in
the coming year. Not until every week night and
Sunday throughout the year has been reserved will
the book be closed for 1942.

A sign on the canteen indicates the name of the
organization which is furnishing the evening's
food. Chicago Park camera clubs are donating a
camera and flashlight to take pictures of the can-
teen in order that women who have worked on
the project can have pictorial evidence of the hun-
gry soldiers and sailors in action.

The staff of the Chicago Park District is cam-
paigning to enlist every racial, social, or civic
group in the‘ work of the Center. Some of the
active members of each club are taken on a tour
of the building and told how their group could
contribute to this community-wide program. One
club may, for example, organize an old-fashioned
taffy pull, corn popping party or peanut roast.
Another group may.round up talent and supply
an evening’s entertainment or perhaps introduce
some new game equipment or activity for the boys.
Suggestions are always welcome, since novelty has
the same important place in a service men’s center
as in a' recreation program.

Chicago’s boat building fraternity has offered to
build a large number of cutters to be presented to
the Naval Training units located here in the city.
SOme of the boats may be reserved in our park
harbor for recreational use by men in uniform as
supplementary equipment of the Service Men’s
('enter.

The city's photographic clubs are setting up a
dark room and complete photographic equipment

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

at the Center. This will be used by men in uni
form who have camera hobbies.

Park centers throughout the city have bee
active in organizing their communities to cooper
ate with the Center in extending Chicago's hospi
tality to visiting men in uniform. Recreation cen
ters are sending entertainment talent downtow
for the amateur shows, with many of the play
ground children helping to put over these pro

ends, many of the parks are sending buses to pic
up about 100 men and take them out to a par
center for an afternoon or evening. The men ar
guests at a community dinner and special enter
tainment is planned for them in lieldhouses equip
ped with gymnasiums, assembly halls, craft shops
libraries and club rooms. As the municipal pro
gram develops, this will be an expanding featur
supplementing the operation of the Center itsel
with further community participation throughou
the city.

The community centers have also been drafte
for civilian defense work. One room in each field
house is set aside for the use of volunteers. W omei
are invited to come to the park with their knitting
and sewing for the Red Cross and other war re
lief groups. Here they can work with their neigh
bors, listen to music and hear lectures. Plans ar
under way to have representatives of Sout
American republics come out from consular office
to speak to the workers, perhaps describing th
people and customs of our continental neighbor
This informal, neighborly federating of forces i
making an active contribution to the national caus

The Christmas program at the Service Men’
Center climaxed the work for 1941. Holiday fe
tivities were planned for the boys who could u
go home. The neighborhood group winning la.
year’s prize for the best decorated communit
Christmas tree asked for the privilege of suppl
ing and decorating the Christmas tree in th
Center.

Children in craft classes set aside one day fo
making Christmas gifts for the men—leather t
bacco pouches, keyring holders, card cases, bi
folds, silk scarves and handkerchiefs. A foldin
Christmas card was designed, mimeographed an
labeled “the work of the children of Chicago.
Another day was spent by the children in colorin
these cards with crayons and water colors. Eac
child attached a stamp to his card so that it was
ready for addressing and posting. The greetings

SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS 603

were then taken to the Center for any of the boys
who wanted to send them to friends at home.
Thus the Service Men’s Center has become truly
'a community affair. The mayor and his wife have
taken an active part in the work and are leading
the city in this gesture of cooperative hospitality.
Men, women and children are working and plan—
ning. Many of them have sent gifts—a carload of
coal, 50,000 sheets of stationery, 10,000 envelopes.
Others are giving their time to talk or dance with
the soldiers, to act as hostesses, to bake cookies.

A Town Club in St. Louis

By PAUL B. MCNAMARA

THE ST. LOUIS Service Men’s Center, operated
' under the auspices of the United St. Louis
Organization for National Defense, is a vast city
recreation spot of approximately 75,000 square
feet of hospitality for soldiers, sailors, and marines
stationed in or passing through St. Louis. Visited
by more than 8,000 service men per week,
the center is operated in conjunction with
the United States Army Recreational Area
in St. Louis Forest Park. It is capable of
providing housing and sleeping accommo—
dations for more than a thousand men in
uniform who may be in the city over night.

The Facilities

Facilities include a main lounge equipped
with comfortable furniture in a modern
style, up-to-date periodicals, local and out-
of-town newspapers, writing desks and sta-
tionery, and the various things_which com-
bine to make life comfortable and pleasant
for the service man who stops at the center
to pass an hour or an entire evening.

There is a bridge lounge at the disposal
of the service men and their friends for card
parties. An informal dance lounge in which
music is provided by the “juke” box can he
used only by men in uniform and their
friends. Good fellowship has not been for-
gotten, for there is the community singing
corner where “good fellows get together,”
and the walls resound with harmony.

For those who are hobby—minded there is
the hobby lobby in' which materials such as
leather, wood, and metal are provided at
cost and the service men can use the tools
and facilities of the lobby to make simple

gifts for those at home or articles for their per-
sonal use.‘

The “inner man” receives careful consideration
at the snack bar where an entire corner of the
huge hall is given over to a refreshment bar with
about fifty tables. More than two hundred pe0ple
can be seated at these tables and the refreshments
are reasonably priced. The _ travel-tired soldier,
dusty and perhaps unshaven, can repair to the
center for a shave, shine, and shower and can take
advantage of the cafeteria valet service where irons
and ironing boards for pressing are provided, and
the men themselves 'provide the “elbow grease.”

F or those of a graphic turn of mind the center of-
fers a camera club corner where the amateur camera
hobbyist can have the advantage of the services of
experienced instructors to aid him in developing
and printing his own pictures, planning photogra-
phic tours, and receiving general instruction.

It's made very easy for the service man
stationed near St. Louis to find an answer
to the question. "Where shall we go?"

 

(‘aurtmy St. Louis Post-Dispatch

()(H SERVICE .lIEN’S CLUBS/IS HOSPITALITY CENTERS l

Social Activities

Every Saturday afternoon there
is a bridge party, with young
women drawn from local groups
volunteering their services as partners. Every two
weeks a dance is held at which formal dress is
optional, thus giving the girls a chance to appear
in their finest before the service men who make
an extremely colorful picture in their full dress
uniforms. These dances, which have been a great
success, have an average attendance of from 1,2
to I. 500 couples.

Other activities include the Sunday afternoon
serenade which regales its listeners with semi-
classical, chorus. and orchestral music, and musi-
cal shows closely rivaling the best the town af—
fords in night club fioor shows. These are being
held every other Saturday night, alternating with
the dances. The musical shows have been received
with great interest and enthusiasm by the service
men visiting the center. The talent for the shows.
lmth professional and amateur, is donated by

   

A single glance will show you
why the Pantry
Service Men's Club in Indian-
apolis always has its patrons!

Shelf in the

 
  

g.

3-4 w

WW°w a“? was» » v~— w

- a d. . .4; . '3"
«saw  V"w¥§§§"¢¥‘§§¥
wwaxm as

,9 5\m Asia

35‘

  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  

volunteers. On Saturday after-
noons and Sundays there are tours
starting from the center and cov-
ering points of local interest
under the direction of experienced guides.

Men in uniform who enjoy competitive events

may find an outlet for their energy at table tennis,
shuffleboard, shuffle bowling, badminton, and nov-
elty games provided for their enjoyment.
' In close conunction with the Army Recreational
Area at Forest Park the center operates informa-
tion booths at Union Station and other transpor-
tation centers in the town, offering information re-
garding housing, eating, recreation facilities. and
home hospitality.

The administration of such a large organization
is complex and detailed, but is effectively handled
by the administration director, William Goodall, I
who with his associates is successfully avoiding
any feeling of obligation on the part of the boys I
visiting the center and, as far as possible, eliminat-
ing regimentation and regulations. It is thought

I
i
I
|

 

SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS 605

that if the boys are made to_ understand that the
center and its facilities are their own, they will give
them careful treatment. This has been borne out
by results. Breakage, misuse of equipment, and
lack of consideration for the furnishings of the
center have been at a minimum since this “club

I city” was opened formally by Mayor Becker last

_Iuly.

The young women who have been given the for-
mal title of “receptionists” are providing the all—
important company for the boys through the vari-
ous organizations which have volunteered to aid in
the social life of the center. '

Our center, as in the case of others similar to it
throughout the 'country, was at first regarded
rather skeptically by those who wondered if such
an organization could be successfully conducted.
They were dubious about an undertaking so large
and so new in character. The outstanding success
of the center, however, its immediate acceptance
by all service men who have visited it, its amazing
record of “satisfied customers,” and the position
which it is occupying as a dignified gathering place
have proved that our new army is made up of a
multitude of young men who know and appreciate
wholesome surroundings and good entertainment.

Ping-pong on a co-recreational basis
has an important place in the program
of the Service Men’s Club in Indianapolis

 

The Service Men’s Club
Grows Up!

By HELEN BOYD HIGGINS
Indianapolis. Indiana

EN COOKIES to one man is the ratio maintained

by the Army, Navy and Marine Service Men’s
Club in Indianapolis, which since last May has
been the symbol of the friendliness Indianapolis
feels for the men in uniform.

The Indianapolis Park Board (Jack Joseph,
President), which is financing the center for the
first year, began last January to make its plans.
The old freight and baggage warehouse belonging
to the Indiana Railway was rented for a dollar a
year, and plans were immediately made to remodel
the building. \Vhen the floors had been strength-
ened and painted and some needed carpentry done,
six men, three of ‘them recreation leaders and
three janitors who had been furnished by WPA,
went on duty.

Early in the spring a city-wide appeal was made
for equipment which would make the building a
homelike place. Donations began to pour in as the
result of which the building is becoming increas—
ineg attractive. Upstairs, where no visitors go
except at times when the men are not there, is a
tribute to the
generosity of
many groups and
individuals. The
library, a quiet,
and restful room
at the head of the
stairs, was equip-
ped by the Na-
tional Society of

Colonial Dames
in the State of
Indiana. Books,

magazines, easy
chairs, and good
light await the
men. The State
Library sends
lifty books once
a month to aug-
ment those given
by members of

(Continued on
page 642)

What They Say About Recreation

great scientific centers, all for one purpose
-——-that the men and women of tomorrow
may be better equipped to meet the problems of
life and thereby achieve worth and dignity.”-——-

Gerald S alters.

N we HAVE BUILT schools, colleges, playgrounds,

“One of the underlying causes for the present
war is that people have been living under too much
tension. They need to learn to play, to relieve ten-
sion either through physical exercise or creative
arts programs.”———M rs. Harrison Elliott.

“Many people have proven that without art or
phantasy they can live dull but decent lives.”—--
Joep Nicholas from the Survey Midi'nonthly.

“To build and maintain better parks we have to
do a little more educating. We must educate our-
selves and our employees; we must educate the
scientists by acquaintng them with our problems;
and we must educate the public that pays the bills.”
—~lVilliani E. Frost in Parks and Recreation.

“Partnership, (to-sponsorship and team work pay
good dividends in service, in friendliness, and in
filling the gaps in public needs which could not be
met by one agency alone.”—-—From Annual Report,
Philadelphia Playground and Recreation Associa-
tion.

._-.,

“Community recreation programs are an essen-
tial social service and one needed even more at
present than in times of less strain and stress.
The existing community programs should. be vig-
orously maintained and wherever possible ex—
panded.”—The American Youth Commission in
Your]: lVorlc Programs.

“You cannot build a line recreational plant and
then let it just run itself and run itself down.”—
Allyn R. Jennings, Park Department, New York
City.

“Permanent escape from the cares of the world,
or even from the personal cares that infest the
day, is impossible. But temporary escape, whether
by book or play, or by games, is an excellent thing,

and never more important than at present.” —
Franklin P. Adams in the New Yorle Post.

606

“We can never achieve a perfect and finishe
form of society. We do not even want to, for t
do so would be to arrive at stagnation and deat
in life. We seek for the ultimate justice. We mov
toward it. We never reach it.”-—-From Editori

in The N ew York Times.

“The finest prison is but a monument t
neglected youth.”——]ames A. Johnson, Warde
Alcatraz Penitentiary.

“It is the duty of the park and recreation sy
tems of this Nation to provide the necessary are
and leadership so as to make the ‘pursuit of ha
piness’ possible for all of the pe0p1e, no matter '
what walk of life they may be.”-—Conrad lVir‘
in I 940 Yearbook, Park and Recreation Progresg.

I

“Let us teach new meanings for the use of or;
glorious out of doors, for the use of the wealth
its hills, valleys, rivers and streams, and for t
care of our fertile fields and grasslands.”———-Har
.S‘. Hill, County Superintendent of Schools, Mere
County, New Jersey.

“It is civilization’s task to raise every citiz 1
above want, but in doing so to-permit a free (1 —
velopment and avoid the slavery of the beehive a
the ant heap. A humane economic policy must
be allowed to diminish the stature of man’s spiri

—Il/Iajor Nichol.

  
 
  
  

“Public recreation programs have helped
bring greater appreciation of different national'
cultures on the one hand, and on the other, full
acceptance by these nationality groups of Ame -
can culture.”-——-fane H oey in her Presidential A
dress at the 1941 National Conference of Soc 1

\Vork.

“Recreation makes a vitally important contrib -
tion to conservation of the human wealth of t e
United States. Proper use of our increaSing leisu 6
time is the safety valve of modern life, and on —
door recreation amid surroundings inviting a frdh
grasp of fundamental human requirements pro-
vides the opportunity.”—From The Civilian C :-
servation Corps and Public Recreation.

   
 
  
  
   
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
  

mpling, 450 people
nging in ages from
'ty-frve to ninety-eight
re selected and inter-
wed.
The old people who
ve developed hobbies
re found to be better
justed than those who
ve no hobbies. In gen-
1, men are interested
hobbies which require
ysical strength, such
hunting, iishing, and
letic sports. \Vhen
y grow older they
st give up these ae—
t ities and shift to some
w interests. Many
11 never satisfactorily
ft to new interests
thus find it difficult
t adjust as they grow
0 er. Men are often
l ced to retire from

~obbies and Happiness

Old Age'

The general conclusion of a recent study

is that those individuals are well ad-

justed to old age who are busy. have

hobbies and group interests. and who

maintain their interest in the present
and in planning for the future.

NE VERY IMPORTANT factor contributing to
happiness in later life is the development of
interests in hobbies and activities which may
pursued after physical strength is on the de-
'ne. A recent study conducted by members of
e Sociology Department at Iowa: State College
oduced evidence emphasizing the importance of
bbies in the lives of old people. By random

WORKING PEOPLE ARE HAPPIER

Em.aeaeeenuua
.m.eeeuuuuuia

PEOPLE WITH HOBBIES ARE HAEPIER

.. endogenous
mm,eenuuuueee

PEOPLE WITH GARDENS ARE HAPPIER

 @‘EOOE‘E 33
 @‘EE 13????le 

Each Symbol represen's' IO7. 0' me We!

 

MEN's HOBBIES CHANGE AFTER 65
\H, 
ei>§ee*
Before 65 I
Sean's

Hunting 094 anmq a .n

Each unit represents 107. 01 total

 

Courtesy Iowa State College

    

  
  
 
    
 
  

a

Courtesy Iowa Slate College

By J UDSON T. LANDIS, Ph.D.

Professor of Sociology
Southern Illinois Normal University

their regular work at sixty or sixty-five, and if
they also have to give up their life—time hobbies
at this time it is very difficult for a good adjust-

ment to be made.

For women the prob-
lem is less serious be-
cause their hobbies are
often ones which may
be pursued throughout
life. In the past women
have been more inter-
ested in needle work,
quilting, making rugs,
and such activities. Fail-
ing sight may force
women to give up these
hobbies but usually they
are able to continue them
on into old age. \Vomen
have another advantage
in that they seldom have
to give up their regular
work entirely ;'they can
always continue with
some household respon-
sibilities.

Life expectancy tables

(Continued on page 641)

607

Hobby Windows

U IFE BEG‘INs with a Hobby”
L is the placard which
greets one from the
windows of the Lincoln Tele-
phone and Telegraph Com-
pany at Fourteenth and M
Streets.

For over a year the people
of Lincoln, Nebraska, and
visitors to the city, have en-
joyed the changing exhibits
which the hobby windows
feature——a continuous hobby

show with educational, timely and stimulating

displays which are changed at intervals of about
three weeks.

Everyone who has a hobby likes to share it, to
show it, and to talk about it. Local and state fairs
do not cover hobbies, and frequently very line col-
lections are unknown and unseen except by im-
mediate friends. It was this thought which
prompted a six weeks’ search for a window avail-
able for the display of hobby collections. The win-
dow found, it wasn’t an easy task to get the first
exhibit. The risk of breakage or loss seemed too
great. Assured that every precaution would be
taken, the owner finally gave her consent and the
two hundred and fifty vases
were packed and placed in the
window. Her name, Hobbies
Magazine, and a “Lin-
coln Hobby Window”
sign completed the pic-
ture. It was an unforget-
table display—Parian
hand vase, Venetian glass
peacock, and a purple
ribbon hand-painted
“State Champion \Nin-
ner.”

The next exhibit came
more easily. The window
changed from vases to
Chinese art, Mexican
treasures, and Indian
dolls. At Christmas time,
two hundred old china-

608

By NELLIE MCVEY KUSKA
Lincoln. Nebraska

Mrs. Kuska. who is known as the "hobby
lady." makes it her hobby to tind out
what other people's hobbies are and to
display them where they may be enjoyed
by all. She herself collects old but-
tons. bottles. dolls and dishes. and ap-
preciating as she does the value of the
treasures she handlesI it is her desire
to instill in those who see the displays
a love for things old and traditional.

The "hobby lady" holds up for dis-

play a Sandwich glass decanter taken
from her own collection of bottles

 

headed dolls, large and small,
reminiscent of our grand-
mothers’ day, greeted the
holiday throngs. A small cor-
ner window which had housed
various advertising material
had now been outgrown, and
the dolls occupied the larger
window which had been pre-
viously promised. Subsequent
collections have continued to
keep them all filled. Each
change is announced by the

local radio station.

Dolls were replaced by bottles, two hundred and
thirty-four of them, the smallest, one inch high
and three-sixteenths inch in diameter; bells of all
kinds—church, school, mission, Chinese, camel,
elephant and amberina; a high school boy’s minia-
ture navy fleet cf cruisers and bombers to the num-
ber of 190; eighty old individual salts; old pic-
tures; samplers; stamp collections; early Ameri-
can pattern glassware; 500 salt and pepper sets;
and a university student’s ninety-five pen and ink
portraits of famous people autographed by the
celebrities themselves, including Will Rogers,
Madame Schumann-Heink, Neville Chamberlain,
Amelia Earhart, General Per-
shing and others.

Large and small collections
fit in the windows, and
they come from all ages.
Preschool children exhibit «
their hobbies of buttons“
belt buckles, statues, china
dogs, glass slippers.
pitchers. From older peo-
ple come the heirlooms of
earlier generations, such
as clover leaf dishes,
Wedgewood, Spode,
Royal Doulton, Benning-
ton, teapots, jugs, Ma-
jolica, colored glassware,
Tiffany, teakwood, valen-
tines, button charm

(Continued on page 637)

 

Treasures Everywhere!

HE RUMBLE of the
Tcement mixer droned

on endlessly. Sweaty
men shoveled batches of
sand, gravel, and cement
into its turning maw.
Other men with wheel-
barrows rolled the fresh—
1y mixed concrete to the
waiting forms. And
around the edge of activity, gathered in a con-
stantly maintained though ever changing line, was
the inevitable company of onlookers—the curb-
stone superintendents and straw bosses who are
a part of every construction job.

Like all of its kind, that line of spectators was a
cross section of the youthful, the idle, and the
curious: It was a veritable forum of political and
economic discussion, village wit, and adolescent
enthusiasm.

Outwardly, it was no different than any of the
dozens of other groups which had watched me
during my days as a construction worker. Yet
within its ranks was the one individual who stood
. out above them all.

One day he said to me:

“You young fellows, 1 know how you feel. I
was twenty once, myself. But you want to get
over that habit of legging it down the street with
no time or interest for anyone but your girl friends.
You’re missing too much.”

In a few brief conversations with this man—he
was an almost constant watcher on that job—I had
already learned not' to be surprised at anything he
said. So I merely smiled and nodded that I under-
stood. W hereupon he continued with this further
advice:

“When you see an old man standing on a street
corner‘ looking up into people’s faces, st0p for a
few minutes and talk to him. He’s all alone and
lonesome. He’s hungry for someone to talk to.
Life isn’t as bright for him as it used to be. He
needs someone to cheer him up. Swing up to him
and say, ‘Hello there, Dad. What d’ya know to-
day?’ Those old fellows haven’t been in cages all
their lives. There’s things they can tell you young
bucks. Some of those old fellows are veritable
gold mines of interest.”

Unusual advice, wasn’t it, considering the cir~

"There are so many, many wonderful
things in the world; so many beauti-
ful and mysterious things. But not
many pe0ple like to talk about them."

By SANFORD T. WHITMAN
Hillsboro. Oregon

cumstances ? Good advice,
too, as my immediate and
continued investigation
proved. Good advice
every day of the year.

Looking about me, I
found on every side an
astonishing amount of the
substance of human
drama —. bits of descrip—
tion, brief narrations, hot coals of argumentation,
and at times beautifully terse expositions. ’

There was, for instance, the weathered, seventy
year old foreman on that very job. I knew he had
been a wanderer in his earlier days, and concluded
he would be a good subject on which to start my
investigations. I was not in error. Responding to
my interest with an eagerness I had never before
seen in him, he drew back the curtain covering
fifty years of roaming through the states of the
Southwest.

“One time I was taking my family through the
badlands of west Texas,” he told me. “We hadn’t
had a drop of water all day, and towards evening,
knowing we had to have it soon or die, I let the
horses have the lines. If there was water anywhere
around, I knew they’d find it.

“For hours we sat in the wagon and let the
team drag us over the wilderness. Darkness came
and still no water. We were in strange country,
but we didn’t dare stop.

“Sometime that night we felt the wagon hit soft
ground. Presently we heard the horses’ feet
splashing in water. Somewhere, in the way that
horses do, my team had found a water hole.

“We were too far gone with thirst and sleep to
care about anything but getting a drink. We sat
there in the darkness, dipping the water up over
the side of the wagon, trying to drink it slowly
when we were dying to gulp it down.

“When the horses had had their fill, I tried to
turn them around and pull up to dry ground. We
finally made it, or I wouldn’t be telling about it
today, but the team and wagon were so nearly
mired down I hate to think about it even now.”

He paused, and I thought the story was ended.
Just as I was about to remark on his eXperience,

he finished:
“Our beds were in the wagon, and we unhitched

609

610 TREASURES EVERYWHERE!

the horses and turned in without bothering to
light the lantern. Next morning, when we got up
and looked at the water hole in daylight, we could
see the bones and carcasses of dead cattle sticking
out of the water. They had waded in for a drink
like we 'had, and mired down.”

From a neighbor, a near centenarian who lived
next “door, I heard a first—hand account of a trip
across the plains in an immigrant train. Because
her father’s wagon was loaded with tools and sup-
plies' for their new home in the West, this woman,
then a small girl, walked the entire distance from
their starting point in Indiana to the eastern foot-
hills of the Cascade Mountains. The amount of
that trip and the days of her young womanhood on

her father’s donation land claim were a living, '

pulsing part of one of the great development eras
oftthe continent. And not a day passed without its
scores of thrill-hunting travelers rushing madly
along the highway which passed her home.

Then, as if to show that no one year has an ad-
vantage in this respect, there was the bearded gen-
tleman who only a few days ago walked up to the
threshing machine where I was sewing sacks and
for half an hour entertained the separator crew
with his lively manner and interesting stories. Very
clearly he was not only a part of another genera-
tion, but one who stood apart from the mass.

With his blue eyes smiling and his very promi-
nent teeth showing, he jovially informed us, and
this in this wearisome year of 1941, that his good
suit of clothes, ,which he still wore, had been pur-
chased in—yes, in 1912! Moreover, it had cost

him all of $13! Such facts and figures not only'

give a clear insight into human character; what
they stand for in wear and cost is meat for com-
parative meditation.

Dull people? Boring conversations? Yes, dull
and boring as—well, say, as finding a ten dollar
bill! “Veritable gold mines of interest” my ad—
viser had said they were. And veritable gold mines
of interest and information I have found, and am
still Finding, them to be. Are all elderly pe0ple
such troves of°treasure?

My experience has been that
every old person has a streak
of interest somewhere, though
at times it may be deeply
buried. One such was a skilled
tradesman of an earlier day.
He was a splendid neighbor,
kindly, generous, and talkative.
That was the trouble. He liked

"Riches of genuine and lasting enter-
tainment are everywhere around you.
No matter where you are. right there.
lying about on every hand. are huge
nuggets of adventure. bright iewels of
romance and narrative. complex pat-
terns ot mystery. and vast stores of
humor. They are there. all of them. and
there in abundance. And they may be
yours for surprisingly little effort."

 
    
   
    
  
  
   
 
 
   

to talk too well, or so I thought, anyway. And he
had a seemingly iron-bound habit of jumping the
track, changing directions, and arriving at an un-
foreseen destination.

Admittedly, it made for bad listening. For sev-
eral years I visited his home only rarely. But that
was before I asked him about compass saws!

For some reason the compass saw I had jus
purchased had no set. Knowing nothing at al
about such saws, I was stuck.

One day I asked this neighbor if a compass saw
could, or should, be set.

“Why—a, yes. Yes,” he said, his expression
brightening rapidly.

He explained further, with words and gestures.
“They’ve got to have quite a bit of set. Otherwise
how you going to turn?”
I That’s what I wanted to know. Seeing I was
interested, he said, “I’ve got several of them here
in my tool chest. I’ll show you” —— he half turned
hesitated between the chopping block where he ha
been resting and the big chest of tools on the wor
bench — “if you have the time?”

Have the time? With that expression of child-
ish enthusiasm on his face? With that boy-off-on-
a-fishing—trip tone in his voice? I had the time,.
yes. Plenty of time. All afternoon, if necessary.

Entirely by accident I had found the way to
this man’s inner self. Swiftly the years rolled
back. One by one he showed me his tools, many
of them long out of date. He told me where many.
of them had been bought, what they had cost, anc‘_
related some of the circumstances which sur-
rounded their purchase.

With his tools in his hands, his habit of mental
wandering vanished. The stories began to flow,
orderly, full of spice—character sketches of may
he had worked with and for, bits of adventure,
narrative, mystery, all etched on a background oi
humor. Instead of being the pointless talker I hadl
thought him to be, he proved a fetching storyteller.

Occasionally these treasures of homely enter-.
tainment are not only deeply buried, but come out:
of the ground with all the earthy
appearances of the basest ore.
While some require digging
and some must be sought be-
hind unpromising exteriors,
others lie abbut on the surface
awaiting only to be claimed.

An old man who once moved
into a dingy two room apart—
ment near my home fairly

TREASURES EVERYWHERE! 611

‘ ".~$§Vsrg~a;év~vc

.v v 5n! frg,4~-§"‘
at; ~

 

 

Steel“ "’ ~

f' .
. w _,..' v
‘ Q

I  _ .0 _  "z: r , .._!~:.. -. Emmet; A. fawn,  2.  
Courtesy Girl Scouts, Inc.

 

Old age is a treasure store of skills
as well as of interesting information

bulged with such valuables.

Night after night I passed his

place and saw him through his curtainless window,
sitting silently by his lire, his room dimly lit by the
yellow light of a low—burning kerosene lamp.

A few days of it was all I could stand. Knocking
on his door, I introduced myself as informally as
I could. As I suspected, he was an intensely
lonely old man, a Norwegian who. had come to
America in his youth. In his life he had made and
lost three fortunes, and now subsisted on county
support.

Visiting him frequently, I learned that his long
life had been crowded with triumphs and defeats.
He had been a mill man, a homesteader, a timber
cruiser, and had done considerable prospecting.
His tales of homesteading were to me particularly
vivid and drawing: the locating of the claim, the
construction of the cable bridge over the roaring
mountain river, the building of the log cabin and
the road in to the claim, the clearing of the land,
and finally the intrigue wherein he lost the whole
effort. A saga it was, of an era that will never
return.

He wove many fine stories around several gold
bearing rivers of the West, and his accounts of his

days as a cruiser in the forests
of the Northwest were all that
any boy of twelve could wish.

One day while talking about compasses—“we
talked of the most unusual things ! — I made some
minor reference to the difference between a mag-
netic and gyroscopic compass. Instantly he seized
upon my words, and for two hours we kept up a
rapid fire discussion about such phenomena as
magnetism, electricity, and light, touching such
specific yet imponderable details as the magnetic
pole, polar lights, and cosmic radiation.

At last I had to go. My host followed me to the
door, then into the yard. He insisted again and ,
again that I must come back soon. When he could
hold me no longer, he said, and his whole being
was aquiver with enthusiasm:

“There are so many, many wonderful things in
the world. So many beautiful and mysterious

things. But not many people like to talk about
them.”

Could I do otherwise than cherish the memory
of such a visit, and such a man?

Of course it is a mistake to assume that such
treasures repose only in the aged. The old folks

(Continued on page 638)

Recreation 'in a State Hospital

RECREATIONAL therapist
A working with patients in

a mental institution must
be willing to give herself en-
thusiastically and joyously
every day to the group, for the
individual in an institution of
this type looks forward eagerly
to the time when he may take
part in some form of recrea-
tional activity.

During the winter months a
recreation room capable of ac-
commodating an audience of
from 550 to 600 provides the
facilities for the classes held each morning at the
State HOSpital at Trenton. The men in groups of
from twenty to twenty-five enjoy ping-pong, shuf—
fleboard, ring toss; volleyball, and badminton.
Similar classes for “women provide table polo and
bowling in addition to the games mentioned.
Groups of depressed people are given simple calis-
thenics and singing, while manics use less active
games.

All groups, we have found, respond to folk and
creative dancing; music and figures in some form
make a strong appeal. Music has a pronounced
lifting power; it fills a place in the hearts of our
people that nothing else does. The latent artistic
instinct is brought to the surface, and the incen-
tive to do his best is strong in whatever endeavor
made by the individual whether listening or taking
part in some form of activity involving music—a
community sing, a short'drama, a folk dance, or
social dancing.

It is always possible to stimulate interest by
beginning a class with music; with groups of older
folks a familiar hymn, folk song, an old southern
melody or one of Stephen Foster’s tunes of which
they are all very fond. Then may come a simple
game of ball catching, followed perhaps by the less
difficult steps of a folk dance.
Younger people will engage in
lively games of indoor bowl-
ing and table polo, while popu-
lar songs of the day are sung
with enthusiasm and spirit.
Through these contacts on the

612

Eisele Davis

By ANNA H. FURMAN
Director of Recreational Therapy
State Hospital
Trenton. New Jersey

"As a form of situational therapy in
its capacity to assist the patient to
form more acceptable personal habits
and more socialized intra- and extra-
mural readiustmentsl recreational ther-
apy will very probably develop its
greatest possibilities in the modern
treatment of the mentally ill."—John
Principles and

Practice of Recreational Therapy.

in

"Music serves as a dynamic emotional
approach to individuals and groups.
and as an educative treatment of the
effectivity for individual and social
integration.ll — Dr. William van.
de Wall in Music in Institutions.

wards we try to maintain the
same interest on the part of the'
patient in the world outside as
he had before his admission to
the institution.

A most delightful outdoor
recreation center has been com-
pleted about half a mile from
the dormitories. During the
summer the walk .to and from
the center is greatly enjoyed.
There on the greensward, sur-
rounded by charming -old trees,
our people spend some‘of their
happiest moments taking part
in games of shuffleboard, ring toss, rubber dart
throwing, Swedish ring toss, and bowling on the
green. Our outdoor fireplace affords a vast-amount
of pleasure when groups of forty or fifty people
gather around it for a feast of hot coffee, rolls.
frankfurters, and bacon served right off the grill.

Some Outstanding Programs

A very inSpiring and educational evening was
spent with Ted Shawn, famous dancer. The com—
ments written by a number of the individuals after
Mr. Shawn’s program showed the joy everyone
experienced in the unusual privilege they had en-
joyed. Elizabeth Burchenal has taught several
classes, and all have taken part with fine spirit in
the delightful folk dances. Three concerts and a
play listed by the Antrym Bureau in Philadelphia
were found to be very entertaining and benehcial
to our groups.

Our Christmas party was attended by about a
thousand people. First a religious cantata was pre—
sented by members of the recreation classes in our
delightful old chapel. Afterward all were invited
to come to the recreation room, decorated appro-
priately for the season, to enjoy hot chocolate.
sandwiches, cookies, and candy served by mem—
bers of our board of managers
and wives of the staff doctors.
During the afternoon Santa
and his reindeer appeared
laden with gifts to cheer every-
body. Happy and proud in the

( C ontinucd on page 638)

Service to the Church

Through

INISTERS TODAY are learning the importance
M of the fact that religion is closely tied up
with the social interests of young people.

They are discovering that these social needs must
be served in the church if participation in the

church program by large groups of young people

is to be hoped for. However, pastors are finding it -

increasingly difficult because of the demands on
their time to give this phase of their religious work
the necessary attention.

The church needs leaders who are members of
the church and who take part in its program.
Every church has young people with potential
ability for leadership in the social program. These
leaders, however, do not know how to go about
planning a social party that will interest and at—
tract the young people of the church.

The organization of a well planned social recre-
ation institute is an effective means of serving this
need. The institute programs must be interesting
to encourage regular attendance, and they must
be more than mere social parties. The young peo-
ple and adults who enroll in the institutes must
have a broader interest than just that of having a
good time.

In achieving the purpose of the social recreation
institute the training of leaders to conduct socials
and parties for young people and adults in the
church, school, college, and home, careful organi-
zation is necessary.

Committee Organization and Leadership

The Executive Committee. The success of this
entire project lies in the com-
mittee organization and

Leadership Training

C

By E. R. HALLOCK

Director
Health and Recreation Department

Central Y.M.C.A.

Indianapolis. Indiana

on the committee as possible. Experienced recre—
ation leaders’from the churches, Y.W.C.A. and
Y.M.C.A., were ’also appointed to serve on the
executive committee.

The function of the executive committee is to
determine the policies of the institute, to set im-
portant dates, to serve as a clearing house for all
important issues, and to aid in avoiding any con-
flicts with other organizations and the churches in
respect to scheduled dates, program content and
local policies.

This committee holds three meetings during the
Lenten period in the spring. At this time an insti—
tute is organized and set up for twelve months in
advance. The executive committee also holds a
meeting in the fall for a mid-season evaluation of
the project.

Registration and Attendance Committee. Mem-
bers from the executive committee are appointed
by the chairman to serve on the registration and
attendance committee, which
has ten members including a

leadership. In our training
experiment the pastor best
informed on yOung people’s
socials was appointed to
serve as chairman of the
executive committee. A com-
mittee of twenty members
was selected with the pur-
pose of representing as
many church denominations

This article has been written in consider-
able detail so that leaders interested in
conducting social recreation institutes may
benefit fully by the experience of the
Y.M.C.A. of Indianapolis. The suggestions
offered will be helpful to any community
group organizing institutes though the par-
ticularireference here is to churches. There
is great need for the training of leaders
within the churches at a time when these
institutions are doing so much to help pro-

‘ vide recreation for the men in uniform.

chairman.

This is a very important
sub-committee since it is re-
sponsible for the quantity
and quality of leaders that
are selected for enrollment
by church pastors or church
young people’s directors.
Each member of this com-
mittee ” is assigned one or

613

614' SERVICE TO THE CHURCH THROUGH LEADERSHIP TRAINING

more church denominations for which he is re—
sponsible as far as enrollees are concerned. The
attendance records and registration fees are handled
by this committee.

Two members of the committee are assigned to
each institute program to take the attendance and
to collect all fees. On the evening of the institute
program, a form postcard is filled out and mailed
to all absentees reminding them that they were
missed and urging them to attend the next pro—
gram. In case no enrollees are present from any
one church, a member of the attendance committee
makes a personal contact with the pastor or young
people’s director of that church. This systematic,
repeating method of checking on absentees may at
first seem unnecessary. However, it has been the
experience of this institute that all methods of en-
couragement should be used to obtain a regular
attendance throughout the course of the year. It
is imperative that each enrollee attend at least
eighty per cent of the programs offered in order
to obtain a complete training course.

Program Committee. The program committee is
made up of eight experienced recreation directors
and a chairman. The members of this committee
are also members of the executive committee.
These experienced recreation directors are drawn
from the Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., City Recreation
Department, and the churches.

The function of the program committee is to
plan the theme and title and content of each party
program. Each member of the program committee
is responsible for directing one of the eight social
recreation institute programs that are scheduled
over a period of twelve months. The Indianapolis
Church Social Recreation Institute training courses
for the seasons—April I, 1940 to February 6, 1941,
and May 6, 1941 to February 9, 1942, are sched—
uled as follows:

1940—1941

April lst—Leap Year Mixer

May 6th—Tramp Picnic

June 3rd—Beach Frolics

October 7th—Hallowe’en Programs

November 4th—Thanksgiving Party Program
December 2nd—Christi'nas Socials

January 4th—Games for Parties

February 6th—Pitch-in-Banquet

1941—1942

May 6th—May Festival

June 2nd—Pitch-in-Picnic

September 8th—Eat and Hike

October 6th—Creative Party ( Panto mimes-Charades)
November 3rd—Old Settlers’ Reunion '

December lst—Christmas Socials
January 12th—Twelfth Nite Jamboree
February 9th—Singing Tables

Insofar as possible, the theme of the program is i
seasonable. However, the program content is I
varied from year to year to avoid repetition. '

Each enrollee of the institute is requested to
assist on a committee for the promotion 0f at least
one program. Each enrollee is given a ballot to
fill out, indicating his first, second, and third
choice as to the program on which he wishes to
serve. Through this method each recreation di-
rector has ten or more members on his committee
to assist in the conducting of the social.

It is the responsibility of the program commit¥
tee chairman to get in touch with the recreation
director six weeks before his program is due, re-
minding him that he should make contacts with his
special committee and should attend the social
scheduled previous to his own so that he may pub-
licize his program in advance. This method of pro-
motion gives the director an opportunity to be-
come better acquainted with the group he is to
serve.

Refreshment Committee. At the end of each eve-
ning’s program and discussion period refreshments
are served. A chairman of the refreshment com-
mittee is appointed for the duration of the insti-
tute training course. The special committees that
are selected to assist the recreation director are
also responsible for the serving of the refreshments
under the leadership of the refreshment commit-
tee chairman.

The refreshment expenses are defrayed with a
ten cent feethat is collected each night.

Method of Promotion and Techniques

Enrollment and Attendance. A maximum enroll-
ment of four leaders from any one. church or or-
ganization is accepted. The enrollment fee is fifty
cents per person for the complete series of eight

programs.

Each church and organization is asked to select
a boy and a girl of high school age and a young
man and young woman twenty years of age or
over. This plan of selection of leaders makes it
possible to train mature leaders and at the same
time train leaders that understand the needs and
desires of the teen-age group of young people.

Method of Enrollment. A special letter signed
by the chairman of the executive committee is sent
out to all pastors, informing them that a letter

 

SERVICE TO THE CHURCH THROUGH LEADERSHIP TRAINING 615

enclosing the institute program folder and entry
blanks has been mailed to the young“ people’s di-
rector or the Sunday School superintendent of his
church. In the case of small. churches, this material
is sent directly to the pastor. A deadline is set
for all entries at ten days in advance of the first
program of the year. Each church is urged to
select young people carefully on the basis of their
potential leadership ability.

Recreation Library Booth. The recreation library
booth is a new feature of our institute inaugurated
this year. The purpose of this booth is to furnish
a supply of recreation pamphlets, booklets and
books that are especially designed for young peo—

ple’s social party pr0grams. Some of the pamphlets ‘

are free. Books and other literature are sold at the
booth at cost.

Program Folder. A program folder is printed by
the publicity committee which is used throughout
the year as a source of reference. This folder in—
cludes the purpose of the institute, enrollment re—
quirements, lists of the executive committee and
the churches they represent; the program schedule
for eight months, including date, place and title of
programs; registrations and attendance committee
names, program committee and entertainment com—
mittee names, an announcement about the recrea-
tion library booth, and the schedule of the regis-
tratlon commlttee’s as-
signments to the program.

The Social Recreation
Kit

The recreation director
who is assigned to the
first party program of the
year is requested to write
general “hints to leaders”
which is attached to the
mimeographed copy of the
first party program. The
members of the institute
are asked to study these
hints so that they can use
them when they assist
with the directing of
future institute programs.
The seven remaining pro—
grams also include hints
l to leaders. However, these
' hints pertain to the spe—
oihc program.

Each party program is written up in detail so
that it includes suggestions to leaders, pre—party
games or mixers, as well as the party details. Any
competent young person or_adult can arrange and
direct a party for his church or club through the
use of one of those programs. Program copies are
also mailed each month to the pastors of the
churches that have enrollees in the institute.

-At the end of a year, the eight programs are
bound together into packets. These social recrea—
tion kits are sold at cost to churches and organi-
zations.

Participation

During the first year this project was conducted
on an institute basis, ninety-seven selected leaders
enrolled in the institute. These leaders represented
twenty—six different churches. The average at-
tendance at each program was about fifty. During
the second year of this institute 105 selected lead~
ers have enrolled in the institute. The average at-
tendance to date is sixty—five.

Young peOple or adults are allowed to enroll in
the institute from year to year. In spite of this
fact, the per cent of turn over is about two thirds
of the total enrollment.

(Continued on page 038)

No social recreation leader has had
adequate training unless he can con—
duct a Hallowe'en party successfully!

 

Courtesy Madison Square Boys’ Club, New York City‘

 

Teen-Age Fun in Conservation Camps

ACK IN 1934, Minnesota,
B through T. A. Erickson, State

4-H Club leader, persuaded
43,000 boys and girls to take up
conservation projects, and thus there was initiated
a youth activity which became a national habit.
There was a wide variety of these projects, each
young person selecting the one which appealed
most strongly to him. One boy would hatch and
raise quail or pheasants in his own backyard.
Another would select a game preserve for his pro j -
ect, taking over a piece of worthless land on his
father’s farm, planting game covers, sowing seeds
for the birds, and closing the area to hunting while
the game population restocked itself. Still another
would take up the winter feeding of birds and
would build birdhouses.

 These activities not only served a constructive
purpose but they gave each boy the thrill of a new
and interesting experience. It was great fun to
fraternize with birds he had always associated
with weed patches, brush piles, all-day hunting,
and quick trigger work, and it was thrilling for
him to think of himself as a producer instead of an
exterminator. 1

But while these forestry and game projects were

616

Nashvillel Tennessee

By ROSS L. HOLMAN in themselves interesting, Mr.

Erickson combined with them a
large amount of recreation. A busi—
nessman of the Twin Cities donated
$1,000 for educational and recreational trips which
included county outings and an annual state-wide
camping trip to Itasca State Park. On this yearly
frolic every county was allowed to send one or two
boys. In order to earn a trip to this three-day
camp with all his expenses paid, a boy had to be
the conservation winner of his county. His work
was scored on actual accomplishment plus a nar-
rative report entitled “My Contribution to the
Conservation of Wildlife in 19—.”

Minnesota’s program was so successful that one
state after another took it up. To a state-wide jam-
boree held. recently in Montgomery Bell Park in
middle Tennessee, under the leadership of G. L.
Herrington, State 4-H leader, there came sixty-
two county 4-H winners, who enjoyed a program
of games, swimming, forestry classes, fish and
game studies, and conservation movies.

.T he railroads gave free transportation to the
location, and federal funds met all camp expenses
with the exception of a dollar registration fee.
The importance of the federal contribution might

- there were conser—

TEEN-AGE FUN IN CONSERVATION CAMPS 617

well be measured in terms of food consumption!
What sixty—two teen-age appetites could do to a
pile of steak, onions, and spinach after a day of
sports must be seen to be appreciated! Food of
every variety came off the griddle to the twelve
tables over a ceaseless line of communications as
long as an appetite beckoned.

The camp was in the center of a 3,200 acre na-
tional forest—an ideal location for hikes, nature

study, and games. The cabins where the boys.

slept were in a dense section of the woodland with,
trees and jungle coming up to window sills. The
daily program consisted of classes of study in for-
estry, wildlife, trees, and note taking. There were

winter feeding demonstrations, horseshoe pitching, .

dart throwing, and table tennis. Following more
classes came baseball and
more swimming until sun—
down. After supper

vation movies,
slides, and lectures.
At this meeting
each boy got a pic-
ture of the work
being done in other
parts of the state
which he carried
back to his own
community. Club
members and lead—
ers swapped experi—
ences. The assist—
ant county agent
from Jonesboro told
of the 7,000 acre
game preserve in
Washington County
made possible by a
number of farmers
who signed up their r
lands for "a protect-
ed game area and
closed them to hunt-
ing. The sons of
these farmers and
others carried on
forestry and game
projects of every
description. 
There was Billy
Brummitt who, in
his own brooder,

4-H Club boys learn to make fire breaks
to prevent the spread of forest fires

 

raised to the age of six weeks seventy-six quail

 which he had secured from the State Conserva-

tion Commission as day—old chicks. He made his
own brooders, with the exception of the heating
unit, from plans furnished by the Commission. He
fed -the birds a turkey mash and literally lived
with them until he turned them back to the state
for restocking. Other thirteen and fourteen year
old boys were cited as having achieved great suc—
cess. Some had taken fifty and sixty acre game
preserves for projects. Still others had planted
game covers and engaged in winter feeding to
save game birds from starvation. 

The annual state—wide camps are an example of
what each county is doing on a smaller scale. At
all of them there are plenty of activities in which
fun and recreation are min-
gled with hard work and elbow
grease. Many of
these local camps
last from three days
to one week and
may be attended by
boys from one or
two counties. Others
are one—day affairs.

The Wisconsin
Service Director in
one of his reports
describes the kind
of one-day mee‘ts
they have in his
state:

“The one-day
camp consists of a
complete day’s pro-
gram beginning in
the early morning
and continuing until
late at night. The
club gathers at some
suitable camp
ground at the hour
planned. The fore-
noon is given to
project instruction,
demonstrations, na-
ture study and
hikes, and the after-
noon-«to games,
stunts, swimming,

( Continued on
page 640)

A Recreation Center for Pueblo, Colorado

HE COMPLETION of the

first community center .

building to be constructed
in Pueblo, Colorado, is an—
nounced by John A. Getts, Juvenile Recreation
Director in the Pueblo Recreation Commission.
Fulton Heights, a highly congested Spanish-
American section of the city, with a total popula-
tion of 1,015, was chosen as the site for the build-
ing. In this area sometimes as many as fifteen
persons reside in adjoining adobe huts on one lot
of ground. The majority of residents are children,
and guidance in wholesome recreation activities is
needed for them, as well as for the youth and
adults.

Dedication exercises, which took place on No—
vember 23rd, were arranged by the Pueblo Recre—
ation 'Commission, and included a well-rounded
program of recreation events, among which. were
musical and dance numbers, performed in native
costume and a concert given by the WPA band
and orchestra. Participating in the exercises were
representatives from the community itself, Recre-
ation Commission officials,"city and county officials,

PTA and W PA representatives, and members of '

the Chamber of Commerce.
Significant in this development is the fact that

the center was built through cooperative efforts:
the Pueblo Recreation Com-
mission purchased the land for
the building, after the owners,
in consideration of the pur-
pose which the community

"V'.

A new recreation center which
IS a genuine community venture

Residents of Fulton Heights have a
very real feeling of ownership in
this center since they themselves

molded and donated the 8,000 adobe

bricks which went

center was to serve, had low— 
ered the original price; th .
Board of Pueblo County
Commissioners, through th
VVPA, furnished the materials and constructed the ;
building; the residents of the Spanish-Americai
community molded 8,000 adobe blocks which they
donated to the project to form the walls of the
building. _ ‘

The building itself is of frame and stucco with
an interior 88 x 48 feet. It includes a large gym— '
nasium, small game rooms, ticket office, stage, two I
dressing and shower rooms, and a basement in
which a well has been dug and a heating plant I
installed. . _ ' u

Authority for building administration and pro-
gram responsibilities has been placed in the Pueblo ..
Recreation Commission. The building is unde l
the general direction of a director from the Com—
miSsion. W PA recreation leaders and community .
leaders are to be used' for programs at the center.
An effort will be made to develop community
leaders among the residents of the district itself.

In daily operation at the center are table tennis,
shuffieboard, gymnastics, dramatics, checkers,
badminton, and other seasonal sports. The build-
ing will also be available for meetings, concerts,
dances and various entertainments. Recreatim
Commission officials are anx
ious that Pueblo’s first com
munity center building will b
developed along complete pro

(Continued on page 641)

 

into its walls

 

618

The National Recreation Association
and

defense recreation program its resources and
experience, the National Recreation Associa-

tion took the following steps:

IN ORDER TO MAKE AVAILABLE for the national

'Detense Recreation

1. Immediately sent certain of its best field workers out
to help communities near training camps to organize
to help the men in uniform.

2. Stood for giving all groups in the United States an I
equal chance to- help in service for the men in uni-
form and the men in defense industry.

In response to requests made at the National
Recreation Congress at Baltimore' we pub-
lished. in the December issue of Recreation,
a statement telling of the part played by
various agencies in the defense recreation
program. This month we are answering the
questionI "What has the National Recreation
Association done for defense?" We are also
presenting letters received from officials
of the Federal Security Agency with whom
the Association is closely cooperating.

3. Made its knowledge and experience, available to the
leaders in the Federal Government at Washington.

4. Gave time and service in connection with the Na-
tional Education-Recreation Council in an effort to
have the education—recreation agencies work co-

 

operatively in the defense emergency to help deve10p
national unity and morale.

5. Reprinted thousands of copies of various reports
and documents used in the last World War and dis-
tributed them widely to Government departments, in uniform. This was desired by many working in
military authorities and community leaders as a pos- localities, trying to help men in the Army and the
sible guide of action in the present emergency. Navy. ' ‘

6. Secureda loan to enable the Federal Security Agency 14. Loaned A. D. Zanzig, music specialist of the Na-
to immediately send out coordinators to communities tional Recreation Association, to help the War De-
near camps. partment in planning with reference to music within

7. Released on leave of absence certain of its best work- the Army.
ers, who could ill be spared, to help under the 15. Brought together special information on recreation
Federal Security Agency in the defense community service with reference to defense industrial com-
work in localities. munities.

8. Prepared a special pamphlet, “Music and Men,” and 16. Compiled statement giving suggestions for effective
with the approval of the War Department dis- use of volunteers in defense recreation program.
tributed it widely to the recreation oHicers. morale 17. Arranged at Cleveland National Recreation Con-
Ofticel'sr Chaplains: and community leaders-“ gress, October 1940, for general discussion and pool-

9. Loaned Thomas E. Rivers, a staff worker of the ing 0f experience on defense recreation-

National Recreation Association, to the Federal 18. Arranged also for general discussion of defense rec-
Security Agency to take responsibility for helping reation problems at each of the 1941 District Con-
to recruit some 70 to 80 community organizers. ferences of recreation executives.

10. Kept a staff representative in Washington, D. C., 19. Arranged for many hours to be given at Baltimore
much of the time to make available the Association’s Recreation Congress, September 29—October 3, 1941,
experience. to recreation problems related to defense.

11. Through regular district representatives gave ser- 20- Gave War Department .and Navy Department de-
vice to many local city government recreation sys- tailed information on training and experience Of cer-
tems in serving men in uniform. tain men qualified to help with recreation within the

2. Helped mobilize the recreation movement through- Army and Within the Navy'
out the country for service in defense preparation5_ 21. Worked to get local communities themselves to take
through editorials, RECREATION magazine, special responsibility for meeting recreation needs of men
leaflets, bulletins, pamphlets. in uniform-

3_ prepared and printed “He Will Go to Town,» now 22. Answered inquiries from morale officers, chaplains,

widely used by state and local defense committees,
to provide practical suggestions for organizing and
conducting service and recreation programs for men

hostesses, Red Cross hospital recreation workers, and
others working inside the camps.

(Continued on page 636)
619

Gardens tor Recreation

IVILIZATIUN follows the
C furrow. The conquest of

the soil is the basic oc-
cupation of the race. For that
reason, gardening embraces
the most cherished activities
of man. Cultivation of the
varied forms of gardening
has always motivated our
playtime.

The popular evaluation of
gardens for recreation has
been given marked proof in
the November issue of RECREATION. The physical
education survey of James P. Iams shows that gar~
dening, among the graduates of Antioch College,
was one of the most popular recreations. Very
popular with the men but, with the women, it
stood next to the highest of eleven recreation ac—
tivities. But above all, Mr. Iams relates that gar-
dening was not taught to the undergraduates of
Antioch‘College as were many of the Other rec-
reational activities.

Can we have fun with gardening in the winter?
Certainly. Some of the old-fashioned, indoor-

By VAN EVRIE KILPATRICK
 Executive Vice-President
School Garden Association of New York

In answer to the query. "Can we have
fun with gardening in winter?" the
writer tells of dozens of diFferent kinds
of home gardens which are great fun
to make——-trom a suspended and in-
verted carrot allowed. like Topsy. to
"just grow," to dish gardens in which
your imagination may run wild! ls it

fun? Why not tind out for yourself?

plant effects are ever new. In
visiting some friends recent-
ly, the lady of the house
showed us, with great delight,
a sweet potato in a pickle jar
of water that had grown
beautiful, wavy vines. After
telling of her pleasure in this
garden pastime, she exhibited
a large sponge sown with
grass seed that decorated the
center of her dining room a
window.

And all this will remind you of many more of
these little home gardens that have come down to
us from our great—grandmothers.

There is the suspended and inverted carrot; the
beet, turnip, or rutabaga growing in water or soil
to yield their second year’s growth; the paper
white Narcissus, Chinese sacred lily, colchicum
and autumn—blooming crocus set in gravel or fibre;
the fern ball, the hanging basket; the plants in
window boxes; English ivy twigs in water, and a
Redwood Burl growing in a shallow bowl of water,
all the way from California.

 

GARDENS FOR RECREATION 021

T o the ama-
teur gardener,
however, the
most attractive
forms of winter
gardens are such
indoor hobbies as
the following:

Glass Gardens.
During the win-
ter a terrarium
or glass garden
makes an effec-
tive miniature
greenhouse. A
fish globe, an
aquarium tank, a
cracker jar or any
glass container with a glass cover may be used.
You will enjoy constructing one by cutting window
glass to the desired size and setting it up on a
rectangular planting pan after binding the edges
with adhesive tape. The glass cover should not be
fastened. \Vhen a terrarium can be kept in a cool
place, such woodland plants may be used as
mosses, lichens, violets, trilliums, fErns, and par-
tridge berries. But in the usual steam-heated rooms,
tr0pical plants found at florist shops are best.
Table ferns, begonias, African violets, peperomias,
selaginellas, and helxine are among the many
plants good for glass gardens in winter living
rooms. The plants should be set in
soil at leastone inch deep of humus,
loam and sand mixed in equal parts.
Under the soil place a handful of
charcoal to keep the soil sweet, then
a half inch of gravel or broken crock
for drainage. If the garden is well
watered when it is set up, it should
not require more for a month. \Vater
requirements depend on tightness of
cover and temperature of room.

Dish Gardens. Any deep dish, eight
to twelve inches in diameter, will
serve as a dish garden. The drainage
and soil should be placed in the
dish in much the same way as
in glass gardens. You will wish
to make suitable structure
changes according to your mo- 5
tif, which may require stones,
sand, gravel, and cement to
simulate the landscape picture

  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  

 

you fancy. For this is the joy of dish gardening.
Building your ideal landscape, laying out the lake,
the river, the hill, the valley, the desert, the prai-
rie, or whatever you may vision. A sort of dream—
land in miniature! Then you furnish it with
dainty trees, vines and other plants from the
woodlands or the florists. Mosses serve for pas-
tures, sea sand for shores, gravel for brooks. Then
come the tiny castles, or the cottage with gate and
fence. In short, what imagery this is for your
leisure hours! Even when deep snows cover the
landscape and chill winds shriek by the window,
“gardens for recreation” can be made most at-
.“ tractive. Any light window away from
the heating radiator will supply the

setting for this recreative pastime.

Mr. Kilpatrick is widely known for
his activities in connection with the
school garden movement and for the
part he has played in the development
of school gardens in New York City.
Readers of RECREATION interested in
securing further information on this
subject are referred to the manual
prepared by Mr. Kilpatrick under the
title. “The School Garden—A Labora-
tory of Nature.” Copies of this
interesting and practical book-
let may be secured at seventy-
five cents each from the School
Garden Association of New
York, whose headquarters are
at 121 East srst Street.-——Th('
Editor.

They’re Playing Basketball in New York City!

UST AS SOFTBALL in the past

few years has seized the

popular imagination dur-
ing the spring and summer
season, so it is with outdoor
basketball during the autumn
and early winter—especially
on the playgrounds of New
York City. From the moment
school is out at three o’clock
until the fioodlights are turned out at ten every
available basketball and backboard is being used.

Easily recognizable to the layman is the regula—
tion game of basketball and the modified games of
two or three man basketball. But what about those
large groups of boys and girls gathered about in—
dividual baskets having a most hilarious time with
the basketball? These young people are playing
games in the originating and developing of which
they had a great deal to do; and both girls and
boys, young and old, are playing them. A great
deal of fun and sociability is resulting from this
activity, and the games are health building but not
too strenuous for the average child.

Each game needs only one backboard. The most
popular feature is that many more players can
take an active part in comparison with the limited
number of ten in the regulation game. This as—
sures a larger number of participants. Many of
the fundamentals of the regulation basketball game
a'l'e used—passing, shooting, dribbling, and run-
ning. They are all definite lead-ups to the official
game itself.

Game Adaptations

Knock-Outs and Freeze-Outs. This game can be
enjoyed by the many as well as the few. It takes
only three participants to start the game; there is
no maximum. Also, there is no limited time for
this game. The object is to attain the number of
points agreed upon before the actual start of the
first game. A point is won by the player winning
each individual game. The first participant shoots
from the 15-foot foul line, and thereafter each
player must shoot the ball from the spot where he
retrieves it after the shot of the preceding player.
If the previous player shoots the ball through the
basket, the next in turn must catch the ball before
it strikes the ground. A player who fails to catch

622

By MAX VOGEL

It's an encouraging sign when young
people themselves begin to make
game adaptations and even to origi-
nate new games. In New York City
baskets and basketballs are providing
the take-off to all kinds of fascinat-

ing innovations and adaptations.

the ball before it hits the ground
is automatically “knocked-out”
of this particular game. Each .
succeeding player must make
the ball go through the hoop.
If he does not succeed in this I
he is a “freeze-out,” and he too
must wait for the next game. I
The game continues at a swift 
pace until the winner of this '
particular game is acclaimed. He receives one l
point. After the very first game the winner of each
succeeding game gains an advantage. He may win
an entire game by successfully shooting the first
shot from the I 5-foot line.

Frame (a variation of “Knock-Outs and Freeze—
Outs”). Instead of making it compulsory for every
contestant to shoot ,the ball successfully through
the basket, as in the preceding game, the players
need only make a successful throw at the basket

.after two consecutive players have made their

tosses good. When this is done it becomes a
“frame,” and the next participant missing is auto—'
matically eliminated from this particular game.
Once there is a miss by a player, the remaining
contestants will then try to make it “frame” all
over again. When there are only two players re—
maining the one missing first is eliminated and the
other, who is acclaimed the winner, receives a
point. The total number of points winning the
entire game should be decided by the players be-
fore the start of the first game.

This variation lengthens the game and does not
call for as much skill as “Knock-Outs and Freeze—
Outs.” There is a great deal of excitement and
cheering during the game especially after the ball
is “framed.”

Twenty-One. This game is played with two
teams, each team consisting of two men. Twenty—
one points win each game. The No. I man of each
team will shoot from the 15—foot foul line. No
2 of each team will shoot from underneath the
basket. Team A shoots first. If the basket is
made, the team receives two points, and No. I
continues to shoot until he misses. When he
misses, No. 2 of the B team will then try fort
basket. If successful from underneath the basket,
he receives one point. He then throws ball to hit

(Continued on page 641)

Hit: the Nature Trail

0 FIND reSpite from nerve-
jangling war news. Ameri-

cans by the
housands are fol-
owing William
ullen Bryant’s
dvice to “go forth
nder the open
ky and list to na-
ure’s teachings.”
ramping along
ountry roadsides
nd woodland
aths, these out—
oor enthusiasts
eturn home with
ngling blood and
efreshed perspec-
ves. They go back
a their jobs with
enewed energy
nd a zest for work
hat mystifies their
ss active associ-
tes. I have met
I em in the Min-
esota River val—
y, along the clay
ails that pene-
rate the back
ountry of the
i ysterious Florida
verglades, up in
e clouds along
inding paths in
e Cumberland Mountains of Tennessee—wher-
er they are, these clean-cut robust men and
omen seem to be in search of the America that
beyond the ken of flashing neon, subways and
affic jams.
These modern disciples of Burroughs and
horeau tell me that this nation can get its “sec—
W 1 (1 wind” out in the country. They contend that
I 0 many boys and girls are growing up thinking
nature as something that is isolated in Central
rk or that lurks menacingly behind the bill-
ards along our federal highways. They are so
thusiastic about the America they have discov—

By KENNETH D. MORRISON
Minneapolis. Minnesota

 

ered under the Redwoods of
California and in the wood lots
of Indiana that
they are anxious
to share their new
formula for happi-
ness with others.
Here are the items
that most of them
stress:

Get away from
the city. To really
appreciate nature,
you have to locate
spots that are less
civilized than city
parks and state
highways. If you
have a car, you
can inaugurate
Sunday expedi—
tions in search of
“little wilder—
nesses.” Some—
times they are
nearer than you
think, and can
easily be reached
f,  . . by bus or street
 . car. Minneapolis
 ‘- nature enthusiasts
  were amazed to
discover a tamar—
ack bog within the
city limits. They
were even more delighted to find that it supported
a large and varied bird population, including such
unsuSpected nesting species as the Cooper’s hawk
and long-eared owl. The hikers who “discovered”
the bog have started action to have the city pur-'
chase the area and designate it a bird sanctuary.

Let nature be a teacher. Most of the amateur
naturalists regard their fellow outdoorsmen who
get out into the country just in order to hike for
exercise as lit subjects for conversion. Their argu-
ment is that nature is a jealous guardian of chal-
lenging mysteries that every man should seek to
solve for himself. Only thus, they say, can a

623

: a
VI:
'58

if
our it v 7!.

. sci/3a .. .

Photo by Reynold Carlson

624

person entirely escape from every-
day worries and problems.

Don’t remain aloof from nature
is the secret. When you are hik—
ing and hear a strange bird call,
unlimber the field glasses and
plunge into the underbrush, if
necessary. Follow that bird until
you get a good view of it and can identify it from
your field guide. Any unrecognized bird or ani-
mal call should be regarded as a challenge. If you
answer the challenge and follow in hot pursuit,
you won’t be bothered by income tax blues or
worrying about how you’re going to serve thirty-
five women at next Tuesday’s bridge luncheon.

Be a spectator at nature's pageant. There is a
difference of opinion here. Some units of the out-
doorsmen’s army carry guns, but close observa-
tion indicates to me that the larger number do
not. This does not mean, however, that they are
“unprepared.” The serious recruits carry field
glasses. They say that you can’t observe nature
more than superficially without them. Others,
who have merged their nature and photography
hobbies, carry cameras, and a few more are decked
out with movie equipment.

So it must not be thought that to leave the gun
at home is to abandon the spirit of the chase. The
only difference is that the object of the- chase lives
to be pursued another day. Can it be said, then,
that man’s urge to bring back trophies of the hunt
is growing weaker? Perhaps, but many campfire
philosophers believe that the rattling of sabres in
Europe has become so loud and insistent that
when man seeks relaxation and contentment out
of doors, he is now more inclined to leave the gun
at home. It is more likely that he will seek a
vantage point on some fallen log from which he
can be a spectator at nature’s pageant. After he
has observed the chipmunks scolding and frisking
about in the sun, and the song sparrows bubbling
over in the thicket, the onlooker will be ready to
agree with Archibald Rutledge that “life in the
wilderness is not all a grim and constant battle
between the forces of life and death. There often
come times of relaxation, of playfulness, of airy
joy, of drollery, and of the spirit of festival and
fiesta. And it is then that nature may be said to
doff her somber garb to don her cap and bells.”

The evidence that America’s often unrecognized
“back to nature” trend has gained momentum is
apparent on all sides. The Youth Hostel move—
ment has done much to interest young people in

"Fate plays many tricks in its
division of worldly goodsI tak-
ing from some while giving gen-
erously to others; but natureI at
least. tries to play no favor-
ites by offering lakesI fields
and mountains to everyone."

HIT THE NATURE TRAIL

finding recreation in the outdoors
rather than in theaters and smoke—
filled rooms. A seventeen year
old Alabama high school boy de-
scribes his 130 mile hiking trip
through the solitudes of Great
Smoky National Park in an essay
published in Scholastic magazine.
He refiects his new-found philosophy in these
words:

“Sometimes at night we would lie out by
our dying camp fire after dinner and enjoy the
peace that only campers know. The night at
Indian Gap was one of those occasions that
bore deep enough into the memory to last a
lifetime. There, above the haze of lower alti-
tudes, watching the sparks from our fire
wander up among the stars, we seemed to
have lost all connection with the feverish
world. The Milky Way was an arch bridg-
ing two spruces, and the surrounding multi—
tudes of suns, plants and nebulae were a
mantle that seemed just to skirt the tree-tops.”
Who can deny that this Alabama lad is building

up a backlog of down-to-earth values that will
serve him long after the lessons of the classroom
have been forgotten?

In 1937, the Dean of Dartmouth College called
a group of faculty members together to discuss the
possibility of starting a movement that would get
more of the students out of doors and interested
in natural history. Subsequently, Richard Lee
Weaver was appointed college naturalist. He was
given the rank of instructor in the regular faculty,
yet has no classes and is free to be in the field at
any time. Student response to the new opportuni-
ties has been gratifying. Within a short while
after Mr. VVeaver’s appointment, a number of
students asked him to help them form a natural
history club. The group takes week-end excur-
sions and sponsors popular afternoon hikes into
the countryside around Hanover.

Hiking is not for the young folks exclusively,
however. In Minneapolis alone, every month
thousands of amateur naturalists from eight to
eighty, years of age go on specially conducted
field trips that are sponsored by such diverse in—
terest groups as the Geological Society, the Field
Naturalists’ Club, the Audubon Society, the Min—
eral and Gem Club, the Minnesota Bird Club, and
the Botanical Society. One organization, the
Municipal Hiking Club, has over 350 members.

(Continued on page 637)

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

'Cap’n Bill’s Column of Nature-Grams

LASKA Recreation C amp has been set up for
soldiers in Mount McKinley National Park.

Soldiers pay their own transportation, but com-
panies offer reduced rates.

“Appalachian Trail Users” is new Publication
No. 15, Appalachian Trail Conference, 1624 H
Street NW, Washington, D. C. 67 pp. 25 cents.
An extremely practical book.

“Auto Caravan Trip” over Mt. Greylock, Mas-
sachusetts’ highest peak. 8 pp. Send 10 cents to
Cap’n Bill to cover mailing. This is a conservation
trip which you might like to try out at home.
Several reprints of editorials on nature education
will be included.

“Bird Houses, Baths and Feeding Shelters,
How to Make and Where to Place Them,”
Edmund J. Sawyer. Third Edition. Cranbrook
Institute of Science. 35 pp., diagrams. 20 cents.
Excellent.

Bird Sanctuary, at Lakehurst Naval Air Sta-
tion, is thoroughly enjoyed by the enlisted men
who conduct it. Recreation is more than boxing,
basketball, and park benching.

“Birds of America,” John James Audubon.
Macmillan Company, New York. Colored illus—
trations. $4.95. Reproductions of the famous “e1e-'
phant folio” plates which sold for $12. 50 are now
within reach of all bird folks.

Brooklyn Botanic Garden describes its work in
a new booklet which is dedicated to the Director,
Dr. C. Stuart Gager, and written by Ellen Eddy
Shaw, Curator of Elementary Instruction. We
quote from its crisp pages which start with the
belief of Comenius: “As far as
possible men are taught to be-

attend and see that he has his money’s worth. We
always plan to raise extra material to give away.
. . . \Ne view our work with sentiment but not

with sentimentality.”

Conservation. “The Wildlife Conservation Pro—
gram of the 4-H Clubs in North Carolina.” Di-
vision of Game and Inland Fisheries, Raleigh,

North Carolina, April 1941. 16 pp.

Defense and Nature Recreation. The National
Park Service Ranger Naturalists tell the story of
conservation to thousands, every day. Recreational
area maps have been prepared for the Morale Di-
vision of the Army. Nature hobbies for men in
service are being studied with a view to organiz-
ing programs. The proposed great international
park on the Mexican border and the Waterton-
Glacier International Peace Park on the Canadian

boundary are significant.

Desert Recreation, according to George H.
Hillis, superintendent of parks and recreation,
Phoenix, Arizona, offers 84 per cent of possible
sunshine, and secures Vitamin D—essential for
teeth, bones, and general growth. With no fire
hazard, chuck wagons with western trimmings,
eleven species of rattlesnake, greasewood, giant
cacti, the mesquite of stories of the West, and
Indian petrogylphs—there is a wide range for
desert hobbies.

Forest Fires. Oregon has a “Keep Oregon
Green” campaign, according to Current Science,
a weekly publication for junior scientists. For
every acre of forest burned in 1940, there were
two in 1930, four in 1920, and live in 1910. Over

90 per cent are man-caused.

There is still room for im-

come wise, not by books, but
by the Heavens, the earth,
oaks, and beeches. . . .” “There
has never been any course -of
study. . . . The grounds are a
living laboratory for work, an
opportunity to discover the
laws and plan of nature. . . .
One cannot invest even ten
cents . . . without having to

Cap'n Bill says: "The professionally
well-prepared leader knows his com-
munity. The good recreation program
gives evidence that its roots are in
the forests. fields, streams and in the
parks, and shows awareness of the
numerous ways in which the natural
world influences child growth. The
child must be sensibly guided in this
maze of possibilities for experience.
Nature-grams are tested experi-
ences put on record in Recreation.”

provement.
Forest Products Laboratory

(1910), Madison, Wisconsin,
has 200 scientists on four acres
of floor space, experimenting
with wood, plastic buttons,
Hoors, decks of ships, and even
costume jewelry. Making
wood insect-, fungus-, and fire-
resistant is another challenge.

625

626

Humane Education. “The Home for the Animal
Away from Home” has been operating at 366
Albany Street, Boston, since February 15, 1941.
One feature is a tub, plus soap and instruction, for
boys and girls who are handicapped in bathing
their dogs. The Animal Rescue League, 51 Car-
ver Street, Boston, has also maintained a free
clinic for animals for more than thirty years, a
“Home of Rest for Horses,” a corps of ten motor
ambulances, and thirteen agents.

IlIaseu-m News. “Taproots” is the title of a
publication from the Trailside Museum, Chicago
and Thatcher Avenues, River Forest, Illinois.
Virginia Moe is editor. Anyone getting out a
trailside publication should put “Taproots” on
his exchange list. It is written for those who are
neither bontanists or zoologists but who enjoy the
flowers and the birds.

Nationality Parties, Camp Fire Girls, Lowry
School, Dearborn, Michigan. For example: An
Italian Night, with an Italian girl as guest, selec—
tions by Italian composers, and all decorations,
food and music in Italian style. Appreciation of
the cultures of other folks is practical.

)

“Nature Games,’ a valuable way of presenting
the outdoors. Eighty-seven games in 32 page
pamphlet, 10 cents postpaid. Write Cap’n Bill.
Also the Nature Guides Dictionary for making
nature trails, 17 page pamphlet, 10 cents.

Par/es, State. Reports are becoming less for-
mal, more attractive, and interesting reading. The
following notes are taken from the report of Albert
M. Turner, for twenty-six years the secretary of
the Connecticut State Park and Forest Commis-
sion. The report covered the fiscal term ended in
June 1940. “The primary purpose of forestry may
be economic. Provision must be made for out-
door recreation if the stockholders are to remain
happy. If man forgets that he is a child of nature,
he is in deadly peril. The Indian was a confirmed
camper and trailer, but lacked all sense of the
private ownership of land. He wouldn’t take the
land back as a gift. There were only four Indians
to the square mile as against our latest count
(1940) of 350. The recent trend toward a com-
mon holding of large areas of forest is a simple
manifestation of a natural revulsion from the arti-
ficiality of our present way of life. The sooner the
planners recognize the controlling forces at work,
the sooner the stockholders are likely to approve
the plan.”

IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

_ shoe hares, the gray fox and redbacked mouse in

Penn’s lVoods. In the Allegheny National For-
est near Ludlow, Pennsylvania,_ 4,131 acres of
virgin hemlock-beach forest have been set aside for
the education and enjoyment of the public. It will

remain undisturbed by motor roads or picnicking. 3

Primeval trees, 300—500 years old, and an inter-
esting animal population including bobcats, snow-

an unspoiled environment.

“Plants in the Home,” Frank K. Balthis, Mac-
millan Company, New York. 172 pp. $2.50.
Timer and practical. Includes miniature hot-
houses, indoor rock gardens, and even plants for
men.

Public School Cam ,0, Atlanta, Georgia. Accord-

and superintendent of schools, the organized camp
as an adjunct to a public school system, held in
Hard Labor Creek Recreational Area, proved a
tremendous success. Better student‘s, happier citi-
zens, less delinquency and better physical and
mental preparation resulted. “The effect on the
lives of the children was electrical.”

Science Clubs of America are now sponsored by
Science Service, the institution for popularizing
science. Amateurs, high school clubs and groups|
of all ages will participate. The American Insti-
tute of the City of New York organized 800 junior
science clubs in the past fourteen years. The
Junior Science Fair and the Junior Science Con-
gress are a part of the movement. Broadcasts from
Boston Station WRUL, 9:30 P. M., EST, Mon-
days. Further information from Science Service,

1719 N. Street, NW, Washington, D. C.

“Science Interests and Activities ofAdolescents,”
Herbert S. Zim. Ethical Culture Schools, New
York. 256 pp. $2.50. Research based on study 0
students.

“Science on Parade,” A. F. Collins. D. Appleton
Century Company, New York. 1940. 314 pp. Il-
lustrated. $3.00. The author is called the “maste
hobbyist” by his publishers. Recommended fo
amateurs.

Trail M arleing. A lumberman’s crayon has been
successfully used for blazing trails. It is “out” for
next year. Red or white paint is good for red
dot or white dot trails. It is no longer good form
to blaze with an axe.

Trails. “Footpath in the Wilderness.” Middle
bury Press, Middlebury, Vermont. $2.50. A story

(Continued on page 636)

   
  

I
ing to Willis A. Sutton, past president of the NEAl
I

   
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 

Where Do We 60 from Here?

ELEN MURRAY, a young
business girl, was feel-
ing. pretty down in

-dumps at the beginning of
one Labor Day week end.
She had wanted to Spend the
last holiday week end of the
' season in Chicago, and then
just a few days before she
. was supposed to leave, along came a dentist bill
.that knocked her plans in the head, leaving her
about half of the money she needed for her trip.

Late Friday evening she wandered down to the
corner drug store to drown her sorrows in a soda,

and ran into a girl friend. They were both mildly
surprised.

“I thought you’d be out of town, Helen!”

“So did I, Joan, but my finances wouldn’t per-
mit it 1”

“That’s my trouble. My cousin and I were

going to drive up to Chicago, but we couldn’t
quite make the grade financially.”

“I wish I had known that before! That’s where

I was going, too, and maybe if we had all chipped
1n on the gasoline, we could
have gone.”

“Why, I suppose we could
have. I wish

that I had

k n o w n y o u
I wanted to go!”

They were
both gloomy
for a moment
and then Joan
had a thought.

“Why don't we
t r y t o g e t a
crowd together
and go down to
the State Park
at Jeffryville,
M on d ay ? It
wouldn’t cost
any of us much
if four or five
went.”

By RUTH CAIN FARRELL
Covington. Kentucky

Shop around a little when you're
planning your trips! There are
often real bargains to be found.

Trips in special trains run for the
benefit of hikers and cyclers are in-

expensive' and they're great funI too ""

 

They called several
friends, explained their plan,
and asked them to join the
party. On Monday morn-
ing eight young people set
out for the State Park in
two ‘cars. The cost of the
gasoline for the two cars
was split eight ways, each
person paying fifty cents; the cost for the lunch
and the beverage was divided in the same way,
with a tax for each of fifty cents. Thus for $1.00
apiece eight people had a most enjoyable picnic
in a delightful. spot instead of spending their
precious holiday at home.

Since then they have gone many places and
seen many things that it would have been almost
impossible for them to have done or seen alone.
It’s a fine plan for young people without a great
deal of money to spend on recreation and travel.

It pays to shop around a little when planning
an excursion that seems a bit too costly for the
pocketbook, for usually there’ll be two or three
other people close at hand who are in the same
boat. You can help each other
get where you want to go for
less money, and have more fun

getting there.

“We choose in
leisure those
things that in-
terest us, and
for active par-
ticipation the
things in which
we are skilled.
There is much
greater satis-
faction in ex—
celling than in
failing, par-
ticularly if we
are sharing our
leisure with

friends.” —
Helen Fender-

Cour!c.¢_\- [.03 Angelo: Playground and Recreation Department gast'

627

Paddle Tennis Grows Up

0MB CHANGES had been

made. That was quite

obvious to the several
hundred spectators gathered
in Central Park to witness the thrilling paddle
tennis match between Bobby Riggs and his doubles
partner, Gene Mako,-and the New York City
Park Department playground champions, Nat
Baron and Jack Slotnick.

Something new had been added! By simply
raising the height of the net four inches; by add-
ing five feet to the length and two feet to the
width of the court; and by allowing only one serve
instead of two (for adults), thus balancing the
advantage between server and receiver, paddle
tennis has grown to be a most fascinating all-year-
round sport attractive to the champion as well as
to the novice.

Bobby Riggs is an enthusiastic paddle tennis
devotee. He claims that it
improves his net game and
footwork. The exhibition
match at Central Park was
played two weeks before he

By MURRAY GELLER
Chairman of Rules Committee
United States Paddle Tennis Association

Bobby Riggs. American Davis Cup starI is
shown playing in the paddle tennis exhibi—
tion match at Central Park. At the age of
fifteen he was the boy champion in pad-
dle tennis on the Los Angeles playgrounds.

won the national lawn tennis
championship at Forest Hills
in September. Although the
development of champions is
desirable from the standpoint of arousing interest
and the satisfaction of that most wholesome phase
of democracy, the ambition of the youngster (from
both sides of the railroad track) to become a
champion, paddle tennis is a game for the player
rather than for the spectator.

Paddle tennis is the natural answer to the play—
ground, industrial, housing, military, and naval
recreation directors’ desire for an all—year-round,
highly competitive, inexpensve, easily constructed
activity that keeps its players in top physical con-
dition and is lots of fun. The 377 paddle tennis
courts in the New York City Park Department
playgrounds, many of which are floodlighted for
night play, are in great demand by children and
grown-ups alike. Many
more courts are being con-
structed. Parkchester, the
world’s largest housing de-
velopment, owned by the

 

PADDLE TENNIS GROWS UP 629

Metropolitan Life 111—
surance Company, has
seven 44’ courts in con-
stant use. It is by far
the most popular win-
ter and summer sport‘
among their 34,000 ten-
ants. Harland Sickman,
Manager of Recreation,
brought a strong dele-
gation of paddle tennis
players from Parkches-
ter for a very success-
ful invasion of our 1941
national outdoor cham—
pionship tournament.
Recreation officers
are faced with a difficult
situation in supplying
expensive lawn tennis equipment for the many
tennis enthusiasts in our armed forces. Paddle
tennis is the answer to their problem. Veteran
tennis“ players love the game, with its fast returns.
accent on net play, and lightning footwork. The
44’ court permits artful lobbing and hard driving.
It is no “sissy’s” game. Although anyone can en-
joy a game of paddle tennis the first time he gets
on a court, it takes a real athlete to play in cham-
pionship company. Indeed, many players prefer
paddle tennis to lawn tennis.
' The questions and answers which follow the
official rules will, it is hoped, dispel the confusion
which seems to exist among many recreation di—

211'K— mg; —a

rectors and players concerning this rapidly grow-

Ing game.

Official Paddle Tennis Rules

(as adOpted by the rules committee of the
U. S. P. T. A.)

The playing rules of the United States Lawn
Tennis Association shall govern except as follows:
DIMENSIONS OF COURT

Junior Court—~—for players up to 16 years (see
diagram)

Singles—13%’ x 39’ Doubles—18’ x 39’

Height of net, 2’ 2” at center; 2’ 4” at posts.
l’osts shall be 18 inches from
side lines and there shall be a
space behind each baseline of
not less than 10% feet, and at
the sides, of not less than 6 feet.

Senior Court—for players 16
years of age and over. (see

 

:1'ft—— 16' ——‘———)1

Inquiries dealing with the interpre-
tation of rules and similar matters
should be addressed to Murray Gellerl
United States Paddle Tennis Associa-
tion. Madison Square Boys' Club. 30|
East 29th Street. New York City.

diagram)

Singles-—I6’ x 44’

Doubles—20’ x 44’

Height of net 2’ 6”
at center; 2’ 9” at posts.
Posts shall be 18 inches
from side lines and
there shall be a space
behind each baseline of
not less than 13 feet,
and at the sides of not
less than 6 feet. In the
case of U. S. P. T. A.
championship tourna-
ments there shall be a
space behind each base-
line of not less than 15
feet, and at the sides of
not less than 8 feet.
PLAYING RULES AND SCORING

For Juniors—Exactly as in lawn tennis.

For Seniors—Exactly as in lawn tennis with
one exception. Only one serve shall be allowed.
If for any reason the serve be a fault, the server

loses that point.

EQUIPMENT

I. Paddle tennis paddle — laminated hardwood.
Paddles may be metal-bound (optional). Pad-
dles must not be more than 15 inches in length
for junior court; 17 inches in length for senior
court. "

IQ

. Paddle tennis net.

3. Official Ball-——light sponge rubber approxi-
mately 2% inches in diameter.

Questions and Answers

Question: W 11y was the one service rule adopted?

Answer: To prevent domination of the game by
the server, as frequently occurs in tennis. The
size, of the paddle tennis court made it especially
necessary to curtail the great advantage the
server had when permitted a fault.‘ However,
the rules committee has adopted the one service
rule for senior players only. Children fifteen

years of age and under are per-

mitted two serves. The Associ-
ation was guided in this mainly
by the fact that paddle tennis is
employed by many playground
directors in teaching children
the rudiments of lawn tennis.

630 PADDLE TENNIS GROWS UP

Question: Why Junior and Senior courts?

Answer: The original paddle tennis dimensions
were arbitrarily arrived at by halving the di-
mensions of a regulation lawn tennis court.
There are thousands of these junior courts
throughout the country. While these courts
are ideal for young children, older boys
and men (women, too) feel constricted. The
additional five feet in length of the senior court
encourages hard driving and brings into play
the high lob, which is a very effective shot when
skillfully executed. Adult players universally
agree that the 44’ court has made the game
much more enjoyable and attractive to the lawn
tennis player. Of course, where limited space
does not permit the construction of a senior
court with the necessary back space, it is en-
tirely proper to use the junior court for all age
groups.

Question: 'Are paddle tennis court dimensions and
rules changed every year?

Answer: Decidedly no. No change whatsoever
has been made in the junior game since it was
originated by Frank Peer Beal twenty years
ago. The national rules committee believes that
the senior game is now standardized in its best
form, and expects to make no changes. .

Question: th0 are members of the rules com-
mittee?

Answer: Cecil C. Agate, Henry Hall Bassford,
Frank Peer Beal, Murray Geller, Helen Hull
Jacobs, Frederick L. Pond, and Robert E. Riggs.

Question: Aside from the one service rule for
seniors, is paddle tennis played and scored ex-
actly like lawn tennis?

Answer : Exactly.

Question: 1 have seen many paddle tennis courts
that were 39’ .1: 18’ with no doubles alleys; that
is, the service boxes were 9 feet wide. Are these
dimensions official?

Answer: No. They are not official and never
were. Many courts have been so constructed
because of a typographical error in early “of-
ficial” paddle tennis rules that were inadvert—
ently circulated by a manufacturer of equipment.

Question: Does the United States Paddle Tennis
Association sell or manufacture paddle tennis
equipment?

Answer: Emphatically no! The membership of
the U. S. P. T. A. is made up of recreation

leaders and paddle tennis enthusiasts from all
parts of the United States, and it is not con-
nected with any commercial enterprise. The
Association is solely concerned with extending
the popularity of paddle tennis, standardizing
the dimensions and rules of play, organizing and
conducting local and national tournaments, and
doing all it can to develop the recreational
features of the game.

Question: May the overhand service be used?

Answer: Of course. Some local tournament of-
ficials have erroneously compelled players to
serve underhand. Players may serve as they 1'
please. It is very important however, that the
footfault rule (the same as in tennis) be rigidly
observed.

Question: What is Platform Paddle Tennis and
how does it differ from regulation playgroundi

paddle tennis?

Answer: Platform paddle tennis, a variation of
the playground game, was devised by F. S.
Blanchard and his Scarsdale, New York, neigh-
bor, James K. Cogswell. The game requires a
rather expensive wooden platform 60’ x 30’,
costing about $700 for each court, surrounded
by a one inch mesh wire fence 12’ high. The
ball may be taken off the back and side wiring,I
as in squash, provided it has first struck inside
the proper court. This feature of the game
makes for much excitement and prolonged ral-
lies. The net is 2’ 10” at center and 3’ I" at
posts Since the court dimensions of the plat-
form game and the senior playground game are
identical, some confusion has resulted On the
part of architects and designers of playground
facilities. The platform game requires back.
space of only 8 feet, as the ball can be played
off the back wiring. In the playground game,
which is played like lawn tennis, at least 13 feet
are required behind the baselines. Insufficient

_ back space spoils the game. Platform paddle
tennis has found great favor, particularly with
the “station wagon set” in suburban New York
and Connecticut. The game is becoming in-
creasingly popular. Platforms are being con-
stantly improved; the tension of the wire can be
regulated to provide accurate bounces off the
backstops. A new method of “sanding” the
platforms as they are being painted makes i
possible to play even during the rain withou
slipping. I’ve seen rabid paddle tennis enthusi

(Continued on page 637)

WORLD AT PLAY

INDIVIDUAL sports as

an important aid in de-

fense for America were
- stressed at the civilian
ldefense exercises held at the Mall in Central Park,
New York City, on November 14, 1941. Talks
land exhibitions by champions and sports leaders
made up the program. Miss Alice Marble, tennis
champion, opened the exhibition with a demon-
stration of tennis practice against the walls of the
music stand. This was followed by exhibitions of
bicycle riding, table tennis, and badminton, and by

Individual Sports
for Defense

talks on the value of sports in keeping fit. After'

the demonstrations and talks Mayor LaGuardia
led a hiking parade to 59th Street. At the end of
the parade came the cyclists headed by a trick
bicycle rider. Many well known cyclists were
present.

“\an 11M) no money
for play equipment so
we made it 1” Thus
writes Josephine Pin-
son, who tells of her experience in Breckenridge,
Texas, where she taught last year. Bows, arrows,
)ing—pong and badminton paddles, and tables were
ll made by the girls under Miss Pinson’s direc-
ions. But the really big idea came when the girls
vanted to play field hockey but no funds for equip-
nent were forthcoming. Twenty—two plow handles

Equipment in Spite of
Lack of Money!

vere bought for twenty-five cents each, and boys-

11 the school workshop turned them and shaved
hem down. The girls then varnished them and the
esulting hockey sticks were highly successful both
rom the point of view of appearance and utility.

 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
  

UNDER the sponsor-
ship of the Louisville,
Kentucky, Safety
Council, according to
afefy Education, the students in the public
hools of Louisville have written, illustrated, and
ublished their own safety calendar. The pages,
leasuring approximately 7%}: 11% inches, are
ppropriately illustrated and contain a calendar for
ach month and a safety lesson in verse. The pub-
cation is the work of junior and senior high
hool students, under the guidance of the super-

isor of health and safety education and the super—
isor of art.

I hey Make Their Own
Safety Calendars

 

 

BADMINTON was very
successfully promoted
on the playgrounds
maintained by the
Union County, New Jersey, Park Commission by
using rubber sponges and outdoor feathers as sub-
stitutes for the regulation shuttlecocks, and wooden
paddles instead of rackets.

County Playgrounds
Enjoy Badminton

CALIFORNIA observes
Conservation Week
each spring. The week,
which was established
in 1935, is sponsored by the California Conserva—
tion Council and included in it is California’s Bird
and Arbor Day. The week also marks Luther
Burbank’s birthday. In its celebration of the week

Conservation Week
in California

- the Department of Recreation of the County of

Los Angeles urged that suitable poster material be
given prominence at the playground and recreation
centers and that contests be held featuring the
names of the state’s flower, insect, bird, and animal.

RETURNS from a pic-
nic in the middle of
july are used to pay
for the annual Christ-
mas party for children given by the W ilson Avenue
Community Association of Chicago. Members of
the twenty one year old association went to Des
Plaines for their Christmas picnic last year.

Summer Picnic Pays
for Winter Party

“CIIICAGo’s public and
parochial school chil-
dren didn’t all go out
to play after school
hours last year. Witness these statistics released
by the Chicago Association of Commerce on the
results of its clean-up, paint-up, light-up cam-
paign. The children tidied up 19,761 alleys and
streets, 199,558 basements, attics, and storerooms,
9,273 vacant lots, and 15,104 backyards. In com-
pleting 443,134 clean-up chores, they burned 72,087
rubbish piles, scoured 228 street signs, and bought
9,044 garbage cans. As a reward for their work,
the association presented five trophy cups, 114
community service plaques, 121 certificates of
merit, and two art school scholarships."-——F r0111
Chicago Tribune, January 30, 1941.

They Work as Hard
as They Play!

631

632 . WORLD A T PLAY

Here’s the

New
DIAMOND

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Aluminum and bronze. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
irea’red steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
menf shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHUE 00.

4bl0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

 

A Hiker at Eighty-five Years of Age—James
H. Hocking of Teaneck, New Jersey, on October
15, 1941, was 85 years of age. Between the hours
of 5 A. M. and 5 P. M. to celebrate his birthday he
walked fifty-five miles from his home in Teaneck
to Bear Mountain, New York. On his 70th birth-
day he had walked seventy-two miles. When he
was 72 years old he walked one hundred forty
miles in 29 hours 30 minutes. Several years ago
Mr. Hocking with Dan Beard accompanied Dr.
John H. Finley on one of his birthday hikes around
New York City. Leaving the Hall each had a
pedometer. At the end of the trip Mr. Hocking
registered 31%,, Dan Beard 30% and Dr. John H.
Finley 31. The trio were seven hours and twenty-
five minutes in making the trip around New York.
All finished in fine shape.

Mr. Hocking writes: “At 85 I am feeling fine.
I often wonder when this old age bug will get hold
of me. I am looking forward, never backward, to
my 90th. It seems to me I will be going just as
good as on my 85th.”

Christmas Toys for Wilson’s Children—Ap-
proximately 2,400 toys, some new and some old,
were collected for underprivileged children of Wil-

 

son, North Carolina, in two drives. At a special
matinee of the local moving picture theater a toy,
old or new, was the price of admission. In this
way about 500 toys were collected. In the second
drive the Junior Chamber of Commerce toured the
town in automobiles to collect toys from local resi-
dents, some of whom donated money with which
to buy new toys. The toys were turned over to
the Department of Recreation where they were
repaired and given to the children at Christmas
parties.

Landscape Gardening Classes Popular ——
More than five hundred women and a few men in
a dozen communities in King County, Washing—
ton, are learning the fine points of landscape gar-
dening through instruction provided by WPA.
Subjects of instruction cover whatever gardening
activity is of special interest at the time the classes
meet. Among these subjects are soil chemistry and
preparation, planting, care of flowers and shrubs,
rock gardens, and pool construction. Instruction
is on an informal basis. Classes usually start out
with a talk on a particularly pertinent topic and
then the instructor opens the meeting with ques-
tions relative to any phase of garden procedure.
Most of the enrollees are home owners and gar-
deners interested in learning how to improve their
homes and select the most desirable plants for
beautifying their yards.

Cincinnati’s Airport Recreation Field—A re-
port issued by the Public Recreation Commission
of Cincinnati, Ohio, states: “The new Airport Rec-
reation Field of 200 acres in Operation for the sec—
ond year paid all expenses of maintenance and
supervision and held first place as the center of
recreational activity in contrast with all other mu-
nicipal recreation facilities. The twenty different
activities provided drew heavy attendance every
day in the week and during both daylight and eve-
ning hours.”

Regarding Junior Park Naturalists —-—The
National Park Service announces that the position
of junior park naturalist in the national parks will
no longer be filled by certification from Civil Ser—
vice registers but by selection from junior profes-
sional assistant registers. Anyone interested in
making application for a junior professional as-
sistant examination should write to the U. S. Civil
Service Commission, Washington, D. C., request-
ing that his name be placed on the Commission’s

WORLD AT PLAY 633

mailing list to receive announcements and appli-
cation form.

“It is important and vitally necessary,” states
the announcement, “that eligibles selected for such
positions in the National Park Service be inter-
ested in the interpretation of the natural ,sciences
as distinguished from the purely scientific research
aspects.”

Child Labor Day—Child Labor Day, to be
celebrated January 24, 25, and 26, 1942, will af-
ford opportunity to focus attention on the large
groups of child workers in industrialized agricul-
ture. I11 practically every state agricultural work

is exempt from child labor regulations, and federal _

. legislation against child labor in industrialized
' agriculture is a matter of immediate necessity.
Further information may be secured from the Na-
tional Child Labor Committee, 419 Fourth Avenue,
New York City.

Skating—"Skating, along with bicycling and
skiing, has become a major individual sport. The
1939 census of manufacturers shows that the total
value of roller and ice skates in 1939 was
$5,41 1,479, an increase over 1937 of 16.8 per cent.
While roller skating leads three to one over ice
skating, more theaters and hotels feature the ice
sport. Roller skating has taken a strong hold on
teen-age boys and girls, while ice skating appeals
to both youngsters and adults.

_ A related sport to skating is skate sailing. This
can be practiced only on a large lake free from

crowds. The Skate Sailing Association of America"

sponsors this sport.

The New Haven Railroad has conducted skate
trains to Hatch Lake in the Berkshires. In this
way more than live hundred people have been able
to enjoy a Saturday out on the open lakes amid
the scenic hills of the Berkshires. Music is played
for dancing and racing. The train waits on the
siding so that cold and hungry skaters may board
it at any time. Several trains are scheduled for
the winter of 1942.

Negro History Week—Negro History Week,
sponsored by the Association for the Study of
Negro Life and History, will be observed during
the week beginning February 8th. This will be the
fifteenth celebration. For twenty-five years the
Association has published The Journal of Negro
History, which appears during nine months of the
year. In 1937 the Association began the publica-

Goocl Morning

The distinctive dance manual_ that has been
sweeping the country with great popularity, has
been supplemented by our latest release of four new
records, December I, 1941. We now have fourteen
EARLY AMERICAN DANCE RECORDS to
choose from, recorded by Henry Ford’s old-time
dance orchestra. These records are excellent for

Clubs, Schools, Service Centers and Recreation
Halls. '

These dances are taken directly from the “Good
Morning” book and chosen for their rhythm, sim-

plicity, and popularity—with a variety of quadrilles,
circles, and couple dances, including a number of
singing calls.

Please fill out the following blank

for a catalog listing of these records:

HENRY FORD
Dept. R—Box 100
Dearborn, Michigan

Please send me a copy of your catalog listing
EARLY AMERICAN DANCE RECORDS.

N ame .................................................................................................... ..

Street Address ............................................................................... ..
C ity .......................................................... .. State ............................ ..

 

tion of another magazine, The Negro History
Bulletin which is designed to popularize the study
of the Negro in the public school.“ Further infor-
mation may be secured from the headquarters of
the Association for the Study of Negro Life and
History, 1538 Ninth Street, N.W., Washington,
D. C. Carter G. \Voodson is director of the As-

sociation.

National Indoor Paddle Tennis Tournaments
Announced — The National Indoor Paddle
Tennis Open Championship Tournaments for
Men and W'omen will be conducted by the United
States Paddle Tennis Association in cooperation
with the New York City Department of Parks at
Cromwell Center, Staten Island, New York City,
beginning February 26, 1942. Entries close Feb-
ruary 15th. For entry- blanks write to the United
States Paddle Tennis Association, Madison
Square Boys’ Club, 301 East 29th Street, New
York City.

Park City’s Memorial Community Recrea-
tion Center—mPark City, Utah, has a memorial
community recreation center costing $127,000

634

which is outstanding in the Intermountain
District. The American Legion, which took
the lead in campaigning for the center, inter-
ested the county supervisors in the project.
A one mill levy for the center was voted, and
the center was put through as a PWA pro-
ject. It is estimated that it will be partly
self-maintaining, the rest of the money needed
to be paid out of county tax funds from the
one mill levy. The plan of operation involves
family memberships of $5.00 a year and in-
dividual memberships at $3.00. At the end
of the first month there were 283 member-
ships involving 500 individuals. There is a
charge of ten cents for bowling, and a small
charge is made to civic groups for the use of
the kitchen. There are separate gymnasium
classes for younger boys and girls, older boys
and girls, a one o’clock class for married
women, a late afternoon class for employed
women, and a men’s group in the evening.
Plans are under way for an orchestra and a
singing group. Among other events scheduled

are community dances.

“New Leaf Club” in Chicago-Two neigh-
borhood boys brokeinto a young shoemaker’s
shop in Chicago last December. Instead of
arresting them, the shoemaker realized the wis-
dom of providing these boys and others like
them with absorbing interests to keep them
from delinquency. He installed a ping-pong
table and a small pool table in his basement
and invited the neighborhood boys to come in
and use them. Soon the sponsor and his wife
were playing games with the boys, helping
them with schoolwork, and aiding them in
many constructive and practical ways. Now

the fifteen boys, ranging in age from thirteen
to fifteen, who meet in the basement of the

shoemaker’s shop have organized into a club,
which they call “New Leaf Club.” Plans are
underway to secure qualified leadership and
additional equipment for the playroom from
the South End Recreation Committee of the

city.

“Plays”—A Drama Magazine for Young
People has appeared under the title Plays.
It will be published monthly from September
to June at $3.00 a year; 30 cents a copy. The
September number, the first issue, contains

SIDNEY A. TELLER RETIRES

Sidney A. Teller Retires

IDNEY A. TELLER, Director of the Irene Kauf-
S mann Settlement in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
is retiring after twenty-seven years of service in
Pittsburgh.

During all this period, he has delivered a great
many speeches as a volunteer worker for the Na-
tional Recreation Association. He served as Di-
rector of Playgrounds at Butler, Missouri, and as
director of a boys’ club in Chicago. For six years
he served as director of one of the community tax-
supported parks in Chicago.

Sidney Teller has always cared deeply for
pe0ple, has thought in terms of a well-rounded
life for each individual, has given himself without
stint to public service and particularly to the rec-
reation movement.

 

sixteen plays and radio scripts on a variety of
subjects—Columbus Day, the dedication of the
Statue of Liberty, the Junior Red Cross, and
others. Some of the plays stress the principle
of good citizenship; some are designed for
sheer entertainment. Future issues will con-
tain plays suitable for commemorating civic,
communal, and national holidays. The maga—
zine is published by Plays, Inc., at 8 Arlington
Street, Boston.

The Berkeley Festival—The Berkeley, Cali-
fornia, Festival, which opened on May 4 and
continued to June 8, 1941, dedicated its first
event, the production of “Elijah” by Mendels-
sohn, to the memory of Phoebe Apperson
Hearst. Other events in the series, which this
year celebrated Berkeley’s seventy-fifth birth-
day, were: San Francisco Opera Ballet;
“Orpheus in the Underworld,” Offenbach; San
Francisco Symphony Orchestra; “Saint Joan,”
George Bernard Shaw; and “Twelfth Night,”
Shakespeare. Charles W. Davis, Director of
Recreation in Berkeley, served as chairman of
the Berkeley Recreation Department Com—
mittee and as a member of the Public Schools
Committee. He was also a member of the
Board of Directors of the Berkeley Festival
Association.

Trails—The New England Trail Conference
has published a new map covering important hik-
ing trails and carrying information as to the or-

WORLD AT PLAY 635

ganization, maintaining the trail, and obtaining
guide books. They also have the 1937 edition of
“Hiking and Bridle Trails inNew England.” Dis—
tributed free, postage appreciated. W. R. Hamlin,
60 Fearing Street, Amherst, Massachusetts.

Miniature Railroads a Growing Hobby—
According to The New York Times of June 22,
1941, there are about 1,800 miles of railroad track—
age in this country which will be of no use at all
in the defense program except that it “carries a
load off people's minds.” This track is owned and
operated by miniature-railroad hobbyists who
numbered. according to a recent estimate, more
than 100,000. Their combined systems would
reach from New York to San Antonio, Texas, and

'they estimate that they have invested $10,000,000
in their equipment.

Making Art a Family Affair—Art has be-
come a family affair at the Abraham Lincoln High
School in Brooklyn where the parents are studying
along with their children. None of these mothers
and fathers are professionals; they paint only be—
cause they love it. The school’s Parent Teacher
Association recently gave an exhibit of paintings,

many of them by the parents. Among exhibitors .

was a photoengraver who does water color land—
scapes in his spare time, a mother who is a draper
in a wholesale dress house and hopes to become a
fashion designer, and a portrait-painting optom-
etrist whose daughter is a musician.

Hotel Naturalists—The Treadway System
of Hotels services guests with a nature program
as well as golf. Maurice Broun has been natural-
ist at the Long Trail Lodge, Rutland, Vermont,
for four seasons. His bog' garden has 400 plants.
He leads walks and talks, and his nature trail is an
outdoor museum. And the service pays dividends!

A Junior Baseball School—A popular activity
in Dearborn, Michigan, was the Junior Baseball
School sponsored by the Recreation Department.
Sessions were held each Wednesday through July
and August from 8:30 until noon, with members
of the Detroit Tigers, former league stars, local
baseball players, and playground supervisors con-
tributing their services. Boys were taught not only
how to play the various positions but how to take
care of equipment, how to avoid injuries, and how
to treat minor accidents. There were three classes:
for boys under thirteen; for boys under hfteen;
and for boys up to seventeen.

  

Do You Bind Your
File of Recreation?

THE National Recreation Association has re-

ceived many inquiries regarding binders for a
year’s file of RECREATION. Information has accord-

ingly been secured on. types of binders and prices.

One type which should be practical and attractive
is especially sturdy, being made of leatherette.
Each of the twelve issues of the magazine is held
in place by a thin rod which fits in the back of the
binder. The cover would be of blue leatherette, the
shade of blue of the cover on RECREATION, and
across the top would appear a replica of the upper
part of the magazine. Thus the word “Recreation”

would appear across the top of the cover. with
bands above and below the lettering.

     
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
   
   
   
   

If one hundred people indicate they would like
to have this binder, it will be possible to have
copies made for $1.50. Because of the shortage of
material, however, it will be necessary to act quickly.
If you are interested kindly send word to the

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY

In-Service Fellowships in Public Adminis-
tration—The University of Minnesota an-
nounces a limited number of in-service fellowships
in public administration for the academic year
1942—1943. The period of training will extend
through the fall, winter, and spring quarters and
,in the iirst term of the summer session. The fel-
lowships, which are open to citizens of the United
States not over thirty-live years of age who are
graduates of recognized universities and colleges,
carry stipends varying in amount from $1,000 to
$1,500 a year. Applications for the fellowships
for the academic year 1942—1943 must be submit-
ted not later than April 1, 1942. Requests for in-
formation should be addressed to the Secretary of
the Committee on Training for Public Adminis-
tration, 13 University Library, University of Min-
nesota, Minneapolis,

Box Hockey for Women—Izola Jensen, Ex-
tension Specialist in Community Social Organi-
zation, Extension Service, Oregon State College,
writes that at one of their summer camps they in-
stalled a large size box hockey game about three
by eight feet. Rather than use the hockey sticks

636 WORLD AT PLAY

which are difficult to secure in Oregon, old golf
clubs (drivers) were substituted, and old golf balls
used as puck. The game was popular with both

men and women at the camp.

Fathers Play Ball in Painesville—Stanley
Prague, who is in charge of recreation in Paines-
ville, Ohio, writes that the organization of a father-
and-son softball game at every city playground has
proved a successful activity. Men from all walks
of life play in the games and astonish their sons
by their ability. A regularly scheduled Duffers’
League has been playing in City Recreation Park

once a week.

Yorkville Entertains the Service Men—Had
you been in the vicinity of 70th Street and Second
Avenue in New York City one evening last fall,
you might have been surprised to hear the streets
echo with sounds of laughter and gay voices and
to see 8,000 men, women and children packing the
streets, peering from the windows, and crowding
the tire escapes and roof—tops. All of Yorkville,
New York City’s German section, had turned out
to give. a warm welcome to 200 men in uniform
who had been invited to come and join in a block
party given in their honor under the auspices of
the Yorkville Recreation Committee for Service
Men. Girls from local settlements and nationality
groups served as hostesses at the affair. First on
the program was a turkey dinner at which gift
packages of cigarettes, shaving cream, and hand-
kerchiefs were presented to each service man.
After dinner, hostesses and guests entered whole-
heartedly into an informal evening of folk dancing
in the neighboring streets and were cheered on by
thousands of spectators. The dancing was led by
a picturesque group of Bavarian mountaineers, the
men in black leather shorts, and the women in
white aprons and Howing print dresses. Later in
the evening, the party enjoyed entertainment fur-
nished by a Czechoslovakian dancing group.

It’s Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 626)

of the Long Trail in Vermont by famous writers.
A literary effort as well as authentic fact. Includes
100 illustrations, geological and botanical aspects,

and stories.
Trees. “Forests and Trees of the Western Na-

tional Parks,” Harold and Virginia Bailey. Super-

intendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. I39
pp. 25 cents.

“Utah.” A Guide to the State. Writers Pro-
gram, Utah VVPA. Published by Hastings House.
595 pp. $2. 50. Recreation facilities of a state with
an individuality. Maps and photographs for both
the front and back-seat driver.

Wild Flowers. Congress proposes thirty-odd
dams for Missouri streams. According to Dr.
Julian A. Steyermark, the Field Museum of Nat-
ural History, this will destroy several rare species
of plant and animal life. He considers the Ozarks
as a survival center of the most ancient life in
America. He produces scientific evidence reveal-
ing the destructive effects of dams which would
Wipe out survivors pushing south of the Missouri
River to escape the ice invasion. Franklinia which
was named for Benjamin Franklin once grew near
the Altamaha River in Georgia. It was extermi—
nated. It is to be hoped that Dr. Steyermark will
be supported in his effort to protect these rare
plants and unusual species of cave animals.

The National Recreation Association

and Defense Recreation

(Continued from page 619)

23. Answered inquiries from many individuals and com-
munity agencies serving men in uniform on leave
furnishing information and literature relative to en-
tertainment and other recreation programs.

24. Helped in maintaining normal recreation services for
children, young men, young women and the entire
population in the cities and rural areas of the United
States during these trying times.

What They Say
From Paul M cNatt, the Federal Security Ad—

ministrator :

DEAR MR. RIVERS :

I have just had an opportunity to read the report of
your work in recruiting recreation personnel for this
Agency, and want to take this occasion to express my
deep appreciation for the hue service which you have
rendered.

The counsel and advice of one of your wide experience
has enabled us to move rapidly in the selection of recre-
ation personnel to meet an emergency situation. We are
greatly indebted to the National Recreation Association
for making your services available to us, and to you for
your untiring efforts.

From Charles P. Taft, Assistant Coordinator,
Federal Security Agency:

DEAR MR. BRAUCHER:
In connection with our program for the organization
of leisure time activities in the communities outside of

PADDLE TENNIS GROWS UP 637

the camps, we have leaned heavily on your association
both for personnel for our own staff and for advice as to
the selection of personnel. Most of the program in these
communities will be conducted by the United Service Or-
ganizations and part, as much as we can stimulate, by
local public recreation commissions. We are counting on
you for help in training the latter.

It is a most important assistance that you are giving
us in the national defense program. I am more than glad
to endorse your appeal for funds of the National Recrea-

tion Association.

From M ark A. McCloskey, Director of Recre-
ation, Office of Defense Health and Welfare

Services, F.S.A. :

DEAR HOWARD BRAUCHER:

‘ I am moved at this season to write you my personal
thanks for the help I have received from you and the
National Recreation Association in these past months.

In my post, in ordinary times, as Director of Recrea-
tion of the Board of Education I felt the moral and pro-
fessional backing of you personally and the Association.

As Director of Recreation for the Federal Security
Agency in these extraordinary times I have had it even
more. As a matter of oourse I drew, and still draw,
without question upon your own veteran judgment and
the resources of the Association. Help in the form of
advice, personnel and information has been given without
stint and without an eye on any other concern than the
task immediately before us, and the advancement of what
I deeply believe is daily increasing in importance—rec-
reation in the life of the American people.

Paddle Tennis Grows Up

(Continued from page 630)

asts brush the snow from the court and continue
their game after a sudden snowfall. There is
no stopping a paddle tennis fanatic! The plat-
form players have their own flourishing organi-
zation, the American Paddle Tennis Associa-
tion (more properly The American Platform

Paddle Tennis Association). Mr. Kenneth
Ward of the Manursing Island Club, Rye, New
York, is president. While platform paddle
tennis is a fine game which will continue to
grow in popularity, it is essentially better suited

to private and country club than for playground
use.

Question: Can paddle tennis be played on any
flat surface?

Answer: Yes. Paddle tennis can be played out-
doors or indoors, on cement, asphalt, composi-
tion, clay, wood, or grass.

 

PLAY PADDLE TENNIS
AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING SPORT

The Senior court, 44’ x 20’, has made the game at-
tractive to the expert lawn tennis player as well as
to the beginner.

Paddle Tennis can be played all-year-round on any
flat surface. Complete equipment for game can be
had for less than the price of a good tennis racquet.

For price list of nets, paddles and balls, write to

THE PADDLE TENNIS CO.. INC.
277 Fifth Avenue. New York City

Manufacturers and Distributors of Official Paddle
Tennis Equipment

Hit the Nature Trail
(Continued from page 624)

In addition, there are in every community large
numbers of nature hobbyists who spurn club affilia-
tions, preferring to pursue their interests either
alone or with one or two companions at the most.
The democratic spirit of recreation out under
the open sky is testified to by one enthusiast who
recalls: “What week ends my family and I have
enjoyed out in the country blanketed with snow,
where trails lead one off into pine woods filled
with invigorating air and where one is free from
the rush and turmoil of cities. As time goes on,
we seem to appreciate more and more the great
outdoors which was given us all to use and enjoy.”

Hobby Windows

(Continued from page 608)

strings, hooked rugs, quilts, etchings, steel engrav-
ings, Currier and Ives, Lady Godeys. A patriotic
window showed flags of all nations. Twenty-four
pieces of handmade John Deere machinery pic-
tured rural life.

Now the Lincoln Telephone and Telegraph
Company display windows are football windows
which have become a famous and traditional
feature of Cornhusker pigskin seasons. Corn-
husker football heroes of other years; Nebraska’s

 

 

first team in 1890; pictures of every Nebraska

team since 1900 down to the Rose Bowl pictures
bring back glorious memories of Nebraska grid-
iron deeds, all the hobby of Mr. Ott, the com-
pany’s advertising manager. One hobby window,
carrying out the football theme, contains thirty—
six football programs dating from 1929 to the
present time. Due credit is given to Mr. J. H.
Hartley, commercial artist, whose splendid letter-
ing of the names makes every owner feel a thrill
of pride.

638

Service to the Church Through
Leadership Training
(Continued from page 615)
Additional Suggestions

Young married couples working on young
people’s committees in the church should be en-
couraged to participate in an institute of this kind.
Many church young people’s committees are at a
loss as to what to do when planning entertainment
for a young people’s meeting.

It is important that the members of the institute
have an opportunity to assist with the planning
and directing of the institute program. This can
be arranged through the appointment of special
committees along the plan outlined in this paper.

References and source material should be fur-
nished in abundance with each program. The
source material should be on hand at the local
library.

Anticipated Evolution of This Program

The. Indianapolis institute has been confined
largely to church participation so that a closely
knit organization could be developed. There is an
opportunity for considerable expansion when all
social organizations are invited to participate in
the institute.

It is hoped that it will be the desire of the
churches to use some of their leaders who have
received training in the institute to promote Special
social occasions. in the church for soldiers and
sailors in the local camps.

Another plan which has not yet been organized

is to arrange “recreation crews” of leaders who
have taken the institute training course to run local
parties for churches and social service organiza-
tions that do not have an opportunity to take
advantage of the institute.

Treasures Everywhere!
(Continued from page 611)
have no monopoly on human interest. Neverthe-

less, old people seem to be naturally more com-
municative. Exceptions there are among younger
groups, many of them. Yet many middle-aged
people have a bad habit of being preoccupied with
their affairs, and this is certain death to that genial
mood of reflection.

So, if you are wearied by the blaring exaggera-
tions of the radio and annoyed by the contradictory
newscasts, if bridge has gone stale for the moment
and that dinner party seems flat and unappealing,
you still need not surrender to enslavement by
boredom and despair. These tyrannies — I would

SERVICE TO THE CHURCH THROUGH LEADERSHIP TRAINING

like to call them povertiesl—of modern life can
be escaped.

At this very moment a lonely figure may be
slowly walking through the silent park, staring
emptily, seeing everything yet seeing nothing. On
the corner by the bank there may be standing at
this very instant that old man whom the world of
today is passing by.

Then there is that old neighbor who seldom has
a visitor any more, and who lives alone and in
silence while the days slowly pass and the shadows
darken. He would be surprised and delighted to
have a caller.

Why not put on your hat and take a look for
some of this too often unsought and unprized
treasure? It’s not only a good but a perfectly
legitimate excuse for breaking—or to keep from
making l—that engagement you have been dread-
ing. And strangely, as you hear of the struggles
and hardships of an earlier generation, you will
begin to wonder, as I have many times, whether
life in 1941 was as difficult and unbearable as you
had previously thought.

Noticing the old folks occasionally is not only
performing a fundamental humanitarian duty, it is
an excursion into a land of surprise and adventure.
It is that for yourself. It is that, also, for the indi—
viduals who are gladdened by your attention and
interest.

And that is not all. Many of the older people
are remarkably good storytellers—with some re—
markably good stories to tell!

Recreation in a State Hospital
(Continued from page 612)
possession of presents from Santa, we joined 1n

singing “Jingle Bells.”

May Day is held each year on the lawn with a
May Queen and her attendants, heralds, and a
court of honor. In this celebration all unite in song
and dance, making a festive picture. This, with
the traditional Maypole, colorful costumes, and
lively rhythms, always proves a gala affair enjoyed
by approximately 1,200 people in the institution,
their relatives, the staff, and invited guests. Before
the event contests and races are held, and the
presentation of awards for winners is made on the
afternoon of May Day by Dr. Robert G. Stone,
medical director, and two members of the board
of managers. The American Legion drum and
bugle corps of Trenton, which gives a program
lasting fifteen minutes, is always introduced by

-our Commissioner of Institutions and Agencies,

Honorable William  Ellis.

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 639

A Sound Program of

Community Recreation

3TH EXPERIENCE and research have shown the
B values inherent in recreation not only as a
Checkmate for delinquency and crime, as a posi-
tive aid to physical and mental health, as a source
of intrinsic enjoyment through self-expression,
achievement and social intercourse, but also as a
community builder.

It is largely through their social and recrea-
tional contacts that youth and adults become more

closely identified with the community—as a matter-

of fact, with every group, outside the home. This
identification is the fundamental element in com-
munity spirit.

Recreation conceived in this light, is thus a
civic responsibility, meriting the best talents and
resources each citizen can give. It is a means of
developing the group loyalty and the esprit de
corps which is the essential quality in good citi-
zenship.

_ To develop these objectives through a civic plan
of recreation necessitates the effective, persistent,
‘ and orderly development of the five P’s—Purpos-
‘ ing, Planning, Preparing, Publicizing, and Pro-
jecting the Program. The following acrostic is
intended only to suggest a few planks in the civic
recreation platform. This is but a starter to help
you in thinking through your own outline.
Carry on!

A sound program of community recreation — '

Requires adequate facilities—community hall, li-
brary, and playground.

Exacts excellent leadership and organization.

Creates attitudes of tolerance, understanding and
cooperation.

Relaxes the individual yet invigorates him—men-
tally and physically.

Educates participants through new ideas, inspira-
tions, and skills.

Aims at developing well-rounded personalities.
Takes people away from their daily routines.

' Includes everyone of both sexes—young and old,
rich and poor.

Offers an opportunity to make new friends and to
cultivate old ones.

Needs the joint support of all individuals and
groups—From Dr. R. W. Kerns, Extension
Rural Sociologist, Pennsylvania State College.

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of l

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

     

MAGAZINES

Children’s Institutions, November 1941

“Suggested Cottage Activities” by C. A. Lindsey. A
program for an institution cottage

“The Education and Recreation of Mentally Retarded
Children” by Jane Hutchinson

Journal of Health and Physical Education, November 1941

“The Techniques of Publicity” by Bertha M. Keller
and Zoe A. Battu
“Esthetic Education Through the Dance” by Joyce

Michell
“Opportunities for Guidance in the WRA” by Mil-

dred Adams Lucey. College women’s activities
“Recreation in. the CCC Camps” by' Stanley J. Stann
“An Outdoor Water Carnival” by Betty Carlson and
Alex Saudargas

The Nation’s Schools, December 1941

“When It’s Time to Play” by Eldon I. Jenne. Play
facilities for young children

Parks and Recreation, December 1941

“Education and Training for Park Personnel” by
Roberts Mann

Pennsylvania Journal of Health, Physical Education, and
Recreation, October 1941

“Off the Post Recreation for Soldiers” by Thomas
W. Lantz

Scholastic Coach, December 1941
“Badminton Fundamentals” by Hugh Forgie

PAMPH LETS

Administrative Manual
Department of Playground and Recreation, City of
Los Angeles, price $1.00

Community Organization for Recreation. Report of' a
Chicago WPA recreation project
Chicago Recreation Commission.

Guidance for Rural Youth
The American Youth Commission, Washington,
price $.05

Inter-American Friendship Through the Schools. Bulletin
1941, No. 10. U. S. OHice of Education
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price $.15

School and College Civilian .Morale Service
U. S. Office of Education, Washington, D. C.

A Study of Recreational Opportunities for Negroes in

Providence, R. 1., June 1941
Council of Social Agencies, Providence, R. I.

ANNUAL REPORTS

Recreation Commission, City and County of Honolulu,
Territory of Hawaii; Department of Recreation, Los
Angeles, Calif.; Bureau of Recreation, Scranton, Pa.;
Department of Recreation, Superior, Wis.; Parks and
Recreation Commission, Worcester, Mass.

640 OPEN HOUSE IN WESTCHESTER COUNTY

Teen-Age Fun in Conservation Camps
(Continued from page 617)

and other recreational features. Part of the after-
noon is also used for field trips, handcraft, and
preparation for the evening program. A picnic
dinner is provided for the noon hour and a wiener
fry, with left—overs from noon, makes the evening
meal. After supper, the sunset service, the most
impressive meeting of the day, is held just as the
sun is setting. A bonfire is built, and there are
songs, stunts, and stories in the glow of the eve-
ning lire. The day closes with the candle service
and the singing of taps at perhaps IO :00 P. M.”

The report goes on to state that no less than
twenty one—day camps were held in that state the
year before, and fifty-eight centers participated in
some sort of camp program.

These conservation camps have also been an
important phase of 4—H work in Pennsylvania,
North Dakota, Illinois, Nebraska, and South
Dakota. The recreational features stir up enthu-
siasm and inspiration for the real work of conser-
vation at which these get-together affairs are
aimed. The boys love to swap experiences about
their projects, while the county agents and 4—H
leaders present indulge in a little justifiable brag-
ging on the outstanding jobs some of their boys
have done.

In South Dakota, for instance, one boy received
special recognition for the way he saved a deserted
quail nest. He had seen the dogs chase the bird
off her nest. She never came back, so he took the
twenty-eight eggs home, set them under a chicken
hen, and hatched twenty—four. In a few weeks they
were jumping the fence, and he finally let them
go to take care of themselves. They grew up on
his father’s farm. He protected them against star-
vation when snow was on the ground, closed the
land to hunting, and soon had the biggest game
bird population that had ever been seen on his
farm.

When a boy hears of exploits like this at meet-
ings, he goes home and throws himself with new
enthusiasm into his work. Under such inspiration
we now have a great deal of game that otherwise
might not have been preserved or might not have
existed at all. ,The movement is developing a new
conservation phase by encouraging boys, trees, and
birds to grow up together.

These young people are saving thousands of

Open House in Westchester
County

N OCTOBER 20, 1941, the Westchester County,
New York, Recreation Commission held its
third annual “open house” to show the residents
of the county what the Commission is offering
them. “We hope,” states the publicity material
issued, “that in the demonstrations of athletics,
dancing, music and camping, in the ‘living’ ex-
hibits of art, crafts, and in the many organizations
affiliated with us, you will find an activity that will
bring greater satisfaction to your leisure hours.”

Since arts and crafts had been emphasized in
the previous open house, this year the athletic
program was stressed. Six sports were presented
in a demonstration of football and basketball for-
mations by the members of the White Plains High
School teams, in a golf demonstration, and bad-
minton and table tennis matches. Various types of '
gymnastics were presented by the Springfield,
Massachusetts, College team in gymnastics.

Various forms of music and dancing conducted
by the Commission were presented. Members of
the W estchester Negro Choral Union sang two
Negro folk songs, and a hillbilly band composed of
five young people from Mamaroneck presented the
type of musical activity encouraged by the Com-
mission’s summer program. The extensive arts
and crafts program sponsored by the Commission
was presented in a series of living exhibits sur-'
rounding the floor of the County Center’s main
auditorium. A number of booths were given over.
to the Children’s Workshop, junior partner of the
Westchester County Workshop, which convenes
every Saturday morning. The Westchester Artsl
and Crafts Guild exhibited paintings and sculpture
by some of its three hundred members, and the.
Westchester Trails Association showed pictures.
and maps of the many hikes conducted through the
county and neighboring territory. The Westches-‘l
ter Drama Association, affiliated with the Com-
mission, was represented by a complete stage sets
from a play recently produced by one of its mem-
ber groups.

acres of eroded land by stopping washes with vines,
bushes, and other game cover, and at the same
time they are giving the birds a decent break.

“THE FIRST BASKETBALL GAME” 641

A Recreation ,Center for Pueblo,
Colorado

(Continued from page 618)

gram lines, so that no commercial recreation may
ever take place there. They hope thus to establish
in the Fulton Heights center—and in any other
similar buildings that may be constructed in Pueblo
in the future—a program basis that will prove the
real value of non-commercial forms of recreation.

They're Playing Basketball in
New York City!

(Continued from page 622)

teammate at foul line, who in turn shoots the
léall. Should he miss, the ball reverts back to No.
2 of the A team. The game continues until ten
points are scored by either team, when the No. I
and No. 2 players reverse their positions thereby
giving each man a chance to shoot from both under
t e basket and the foul line. The twenty-first point
must be made from fifteen feet behind the foul line,
land both players of the winning team must shoot
from the 30-foot line to achieve the winning point
of the game.

Twenty-One (Variation). When the No. I

layer is successful with his toss from the foul
lne, his partner then shoots from underneath the
basket. If he is successful, he in turn throws the
ball to his partner at foul line. The remainder of
game is the same as in the original. This variation
leads to a sense of cooperation and spirit as one

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 

hance to shoot the ball.

Around the World. This game can be played
ith as few as two participants and as many as
lay wish to play. An area of approximately
I orty-five feet in circumference is marked out with
umbers running consecutively from one to fifteen.
umbers one to twelve should be in the immedi-
te vicinity of the 15-foot foul line. Number
Hirteen is about fifteen feet behind the foul line,
nd numbers fourteen and fifteen on the extreme
ides of the basket about twenty-five feet on each
ide. Each player starts from number one and
very successful shot moves him nearer number
fteen. Each individual shoots until he misses. He
hen continues from where he has missed after all
ther contestants have had their chance. As each
layer misses, he places himself underneath the
asket to retrieve the ball for the shooter. There
J hould be no waste of time between one contest-
‘ nt and the next. The player who is successful at

partner is dependent upon the other for another .

"The First Basketball Game"

ECREATION WORKERS will be interested to know

that Josephine Blackstock, Director of Play-
grounds in Oak Park, Illinois, has written a play,
“The First Basketball Game,” which is based on
the book, Basketball, by James Naismith. Miss
Blackstock has dedicated her play to the Golden
Jubilee of Basketball which is being celebrated this
year. Groups cooperating in this celebration will
find the play exceedingly helpful in their pro-
grams. It will, however, because of its subject
matter and dramatic appeal, be interesting for pre-
sentation by any recreation group. Price, 15¢.

number fifteen first is the winner. He then be-
comes the first shooter at the next game.

This game is very popular with the girls and the
numbers are placed closer to the basket when they
are participating. Number fifteen being placed
directly behind the I5-foot line.

Hobbies and Happiness in Old Age

(Continued from page 607)

show that women live on an average three years
longer than men. May not this be explained at
least in a measure by the fact that women do not
have to face a crisis period when they must give
up their work and hobbies as men so often do?
Inability of many men to adjust during the crisis
period may contribute to a shortening of life.

The man who has farmed all his life should
never retire to a city. If possible, he should live
on the farm and turn the management of the farm
over to a son or relative. This makes it possible
for him to continue in part to direct the farming
and thus to maintain interests which have been
important to him. Farmers who are able to retire
in this fashion do not die for want of something
to do.

If a farmer must retire from the open country,
he should retire to a small town, but never to the
city. In the small town he can raise a garden, keep
a cow and chickens, and on a small scale continue
the type of life he has always lived. He has also
the opportunity to visit with other older people
who have been engaged in farming. There is
usually a very friendly attitude in a small town so
that it is easy to get acquainted. On the other
hand, the city is unfriendly, it is difficult to get
acquainted, younger people do not have time to
bother with the old, and community activities are
run by and for young people.

642 SERVICE MEN’S CLUBS AS HOSPITALITY CENTERS

Young pe0ple often refer to the home town as
being a “dead town”; for the young that may be
true. There are no good stores with the latest
styles in clothes; the motion picture is open only
Saturday night, and there is no public dance. But
for the aged person the small town is a lively place.
He can engage his favorite hobbies, visit at the
general store, go to church on Sunday, and feel
that he is worth while in directing the affairs of
the community.

In addition to developing interests in activities
other than the regular job, development of the
social side of life is necessary if one is planning
for a good adjustment in the later years of life.
The old people who are the happiest today are the
ones who visit with friends often and who attend
church regularly. It probably is not so much that
the ‘going to church makes one better adjusted,
but church attendance is apparently an indication
of a sociable nature. Those who attend church
also visit with friends often, belong to lodges, the
ladies’ aid, and many other organizations in the
community.

Aged people who have hobbies are not as critical
of young people and the times as those who are
lacking in interests in old age. Those with few
interests are critical of the younger generation.
Examples of their comments are: “young people
are going to the dogs”; “young people are not as
polite as we used to be”; and so on. They are
also critical of the times: “Things were much
better off fifty years ago,” or “I wish things were
as they were when I was young.”

The happy aged more frequently report plans
for the future and seem to be looking forward
rather than back to the good old days. The unhappy
seldom report plans but have reached the place
where they have given up hope for the future.

Service Men's Clubs

(Continued from page 605)

the club. The writing room with all its furnish-
ings was given by the Cornelia Cole Fairbanks
Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revo-
lution. Many families far away have been made
happier because letters come more regularly.
Shower and dressing rooms are a great joy to
the men, especially to those who are going from
place to place between trains and busses. The
game room offers all kinds of indoor recreation.

Pool, ping-pong, and checkers are among the
greatest favorites.

The large social room is always ready for danc-
ing, cards, and chatter. Its comfortable chairs and
sofas are covered with slips of bright chintz in the
same pattern as the curtains. The work and ma]
terial were furnished by a woman whose son is in
service. Curtains in the office and the “date room”.I
were furnished and made by the mother of another
soldier. Here men can visit with women friends
and relatives. I

The Pantry Shelf is an innovation which ranks
high in popularity. “Snacks are served to the men
at all times, and on Sunday night there is a sup—
per. The success of this much appreciated service
is due to the zeal of the group of volunteers in
charge. All the food is donated by Indianapolis
citizens.

And it is because of the unflagging interest and
hard work of volunteers, as well as the office force,
that the Service Club has come to fill so important.
a place in the lives of the service men. Many com-I
mittees are functioning. There is the Servicel
Men’s Governing Committee made up of men from:
Fort Harrison, Billings Hospital, and the Navall
Armory who serve as liaison agents between the|
Posts and the club. There are the House Com-|
mittee, the Cookie Committee which solicits thel
cookies for the never empty jars, and the Public
Relations Committee which through a bulletin,
through the radio, and other channels keeps the
public informed and interested.

Not the least important of the groups working
for the men in uniform is the newly organized
Service Men’s Cadettes made up of several hun-
dred young women. The Cadettes are divided into
four regiments, each with fifteen officers. All mem-
bers must have completed two hours of training
under Captain Conder of Fort Harrison and Mrs.
Dorothy Buschmann, director of the club, and
twelve hours of work at the club before they ar
eligible to wear their pins. They must also haxE
been passed on by a special committee. Members
of the regiments take turns in serving as hostesses
at the club on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Suh-
days, from four to ten. The doors of the center are
open from 8:00 A. M. until 12:00 P. M. every day
except Saturday, when the club is. open until I :00
o’clock.

The six months old Service Club in Indian-
apolis is growing in interest and usefulness andvis
a monument to the vision, zeal, efficiency, and tirié—
less effort of the people of Indianapolis who are
working to make theirs a friendly city for men
serving American defense.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

A Program Handbook of Young
Men’s Activities

Edited by John A. Sessions. Association Press, 347 Madi-
son Avenue, New York. $1.00.

HOUGH INTENDED for the use of Y.M.C.A. workers,
there are many suggestions here, particularly dealing
with leisure-time interests, which will be of interest to

recreation workers.

Landscape Architecture in the
Modern World

By Karl B. Lohmann. The Garrard Press. Champaign,
l Illinois. $2.50.

HIS BOOK Is DESIGNED to meet the need in the field of

architecture for a publication which deals broadly with
the field and at the same time takes into account the
hanges of our modern life. It seeks to contribute to an
ppreciation of a more enjoyable environment and to
ssist in the shaping of the physical surroundings of
omes, neighborhoods, and communities. Gardens and
ountains are discussed, as well as park systems and
vater forms such as lakes and swimming pools.

   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  

Integrated l-landwork tor

Elementary Schools

eachers’ Guide in Use and Techniques. By Louis V.
Newkirk, Ph.D. Silver Burdett Company, New York.

$3.20.

HIS BOOK Is DESIGNED to meet the demand created by
the recognition of handwork as an integral part of
lementary education. It is clearly pointed out that it is

ut the craftsmanship that serves useful educational pur-
oses. Part One dehnes handwork, shows its relation-
hip to industrial arts, fine arts, social studies, science, and
i'scusses and illustrates the use of integrated handwork
s a teaching procedure, and suggests equipment and
oper school facilities. Part Two explains and illustrates
.ethods of doing the more common types of handwork.
here are many illustrations and drawings.

Chess Step by Step

y Frank J. Marshall and I. C. H. Macbeth. E. P. Dut-
ton and Company, New York. $1.50.

HE IMPORTANCE of starting right in chess cannot be
overestimated. Here is a sound book dealing with
undamentais which is at the same time simple, clear,
uthoritative, and thorough. It may be used as a first
, k for the beginner or as an aid to the player who
ishes to reform his play and place it on a correct basis.

ot craftsmanship for its own sake that the schools need-

Work Camps for College Students

Prepared for the American Youth Commission by Ken-
neth Holland. American Council on Education, Wash-

ington, D. C. $.25.
SINCE 1937 the American Youth Commission has been

studying and evaluating types of experience for youth
that combine work and education. Included in these
studies have been camps Of the CCC, resident centers of
the NYA, work camps for high school students, and
work camps for college students. This pamphlet is based
upon a study of a group of work camps for college
students maintained during the summers of 1939 and 1940
under the auspices of the American Friends Service Com-
mittee. The purpose of the study was to discover what
values of the work camp movement might be translated
into the structure of general education. The conclusion
was reached that these camps have many values for gen-
eral education and as a new technique for the study of
social conditions deserve the thoughtful consideration of
all educators, but especially of all teachers of social
sciences.

A Guide to Community Coordination

Coordinating Councils, Inc., 145 West 12th Street, Los
Angeles, California. $.25.

COMMUNITY AND NEIGHBORHOOD councils are growing in
large and small communities. This guide to the or-
ganization Of community councils and their responsibili-
ties and opportunities deals primarily with the needs and
conditions existing in communities under 25,000. It is an
exceedingly practical booklet Offering a step-by-step pro-
cedure for organization. The appendix contains a con-
densed statement regarding the recommendations of the
White House Conference on Children in a Democracy
and also a directory of national organizations selected be-

cause Of the value of their publications or field service to
American communities.

The Public Welfare Administrator

By Elwood Street. McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.,
New York. $4.00.

HERE IS A PRACTICAL MANUAL covering the entire range

of administrative responsibility in the local agency
and individual institution as well as the functions Of a
local department of public welfare. Speaking of recrea-
tion in the held of public welfare administration Mr.
Street says: “Although some public welfare systems do
include recreation services such as parks, playgrounds
and community centers, these activities belong rather in
separate recreation departments because they serve all the
people.” He discusses the importance of recreation in
institutions, both for inmates and staff members, and
advocates the employment wherever possible of a recrea-
tion director.

a 643

644

Dress Accessories You Can Make.

By Elizabeth Varick. Home Institute, Inc., 109 West
19th Street, New York. $.15.

Handcraft groups and dressmaking classes at commu-
nity centers will find much of practical interest in this
booklet telling how to make belts, necklaces, bags, and
other “finishing touches” which add so much to the in—
dividual’s appearance.

O

The Honolulu Plan—A Program for
Effective Community Organization.

Honolulu Community Chests and Councils, Inc. $1.00.

This is the report of a survey made by Community
Chests and Councils, Inc., under the auspices of the
Honolulu Council of Social Agencies and United Welfare
Fund. The mixed racial and cultural backgrounds of the
inhabitants, the presence of a large percentage of army
and navy personnel, and the economic as well as social
conditions existing make any study of Honolulu’s plan
for community organization a particularly interesting one.

One section of the report deals with the leisure-time
and recreation program, and a picture is given of the
work of the Recreation Commission and of the private
agencies such as Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., Boy Scouts, Girl

Scouts, the Salvation Army, and Palama Settlement.

A School in the Country. The Adventures
of a Small Town Superintendent.

By Chalmer Richardson. Greenberg: Publisher, New
York. $2.00.

This chronicle of the adventures of the head of a
country school who chose a small town for his career
shows how closely the life of an educator is interwoven
with the daily pattern of the peOpIe among whom he
lives and how great his influence can be. Throughout the
'story is evident the realization of his dreams for his
town——the new school, the library, and the recreation
center——all achieved through one man’s ambition to make
his community “a decent place in which to live and love
and express oneself.”

Successful Teaching in Physical Education.

By Elwood C. Davis and John D. Lawther. Prentice-
Hall, Inc., New York. $3.00.

What constitutes successful teaching in physical edu-
cation? The authors have given us a clear presentation
of all that is involved from the understanding of the
individual child and the adjusting of the program to him
to understanding and adjusting to the community.

How to Make Etchings.

By John J. Barry. Bridgman Publishers, Inc., Pel-
ham, New York. $1.00.

This is the third edition of this book in which the
author has included all of the essentials of the etcher’s
art and has endeavored to make the various phases of the
process easy to follow. There are illustrative diagrams
and a number of reproductions of etchings.

Teaching Social Dancing.

By Augusta Harris and Donnabel Keys. Prentice-
Hall, Inc., New York. $2.50.

This book not only contains detailed information on
dancing techniques, positions and teaching procedures, but
discusses the important subject of ballroom technique and
the courtesies associated with social dancing. In the final
chapter descriptions are given of twelve early American
dances.

Cues for You.
By Mildred Graves Ryan. D. Appleton-Century Co.,
New York. $1.50.
A book on the social arts, this volume discusses the
many conduct problems which confront adolescents. It

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

attempts in the words of the author “not only to poi
out the correct thing to do, but to build a mental att
tude that will mean happiness and make for successf
living.” Some of the chapter headings are: Good Appea
ance Counts; Entertaining Problems; Behavior in P 't
lie; the Art of Conversation; and Suggestions for Pois

BrightmoorhA Community in Action.

Brightmoor Community Center, Inc., Detroit, Mich
gan. $1.00.

This report presents a picture of a struggling Ame
can community on the outskirts of Detroit and of t
community center which is seeking to help the communi 1
find itself. The director of the center and his associat
have taken time from their daily tasks to try to state t
goals they are hoping to achieve, to evaluate acco
plishments, and suggest the next steps to be taken. Th
studied the adult education program, their activities f
youth, and their work for boys and girls, and wi
honesty and clear-sightedness ask themselves what th
are accomplishing and what more they can do.

Recreation workers and all interested in communi

_ planning will find this a challenging booklet.

Officers and Directors of the Nationa
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the B0 d
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHERL New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West_0range, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.‘
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDE'N L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington,, D. C.
J. C. WALSII, New York, N. Y.

FREDERch M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

II

