Henry Pfeiffer Library

MaoMurray College
Jacksonville, Illinois

A National Recreation Magazine Established
Thirty-five Years Ago T‘j

OR THIRTY—FIVE YEARS the National
Recreation Association and the socie-
ties out of which it came have published

each month a recreation magazine.
In April, 1907, the hrst issue of the

magazine, which is now RECREATION,

A picture of Theodore Roosevelt,
Honorary President of the new society,
was used, and the following letter from
him which was addressed to the Presi-
dent of the Playground Association at
\Vashington:

appeared under the
name THE PLAY-
GROUND. The pages
were only sixteen.
The national or-
ganization then
known as Play-
ground Association
of America was just
twelve months old.

The hrst name
which appears in the
issue is Theodore
Roosevelt. Other
names are: Jacob

Riis, Luther H.
Gulick, Jane Ad—
dams, Joseph Lee,
Felix Warburg,
Henry S. Curtis,
Mrs. Vladimir G.
Simkhovitch, E. B.
DeGroot, Charles

F. Weller, Clark W.
Hetherington.

In this first number of the recreation
magazine there was mention of manual
training, science, art; also of study rooms,
lecture rooms.

Already there was much emphasis on
play leaders and the help the colleges
could give in training play leaders.

The words “leisure time" appear in

April, 19 0 7.

357/0

 

Published by courtesy Pearson’s Magazine

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

This picture of Theodore Roosevelt appeared
in the first issue of The Playground

"I have been pleased
to see also that there is
a new interest in play
and playgrounds all
over the country, and
that many cities that
have not previously
taken up the move-
ment in a systematic
way have made a be-
ginning this year. In
Germany a large num-
ber of games have been
put into the school
course as a part of the
school system. In Eng-
land football and
cricket have been a
part of the school
course at Eton, Rugby
and most of the other
public and preparatory
schools for many years.
In the private schools
of this country, simi—
lar to these English
schools, such as Law-
renceville, Groton, St.
Paul's and many

others, play is also provided for in the curricu-
lum. I hope that soon all of our public schools
will provide the place and time for the recreation

as well as study of the children.

“Play is at present almost the only method
of physical development for city children, and
we must provide facilities for it if we would
have the children strong and law—abiding. We
have raised the age at which the child may go
to work and increased the number of school

years. These changes involve increased expense

1

for parents. with decreased return from the
child. If we do not allow the children to
work we must provide some other place
than the streets for their leisure time. If
we are to require the parents to rear the
children at an increased expense for the
service of the State. practically without
return. the State should make the care of

children as easy and pleasant as possible.

"City streets are unsatisfactory play-
grounds for children. because of the dan-
ger. because most good games are against
the law. because they are too hot in sum-
mer. and because in crowded sections of
the city. they are apt to be schools of crime.
"‘ " “ In view of these facts, cities should
secure available spaces at once. so that they
may not need to demolish blocks of build-
ings in order to make playgrounds. as New
York has had to do, at a cost of nearly
Sl.000.000 an acre."

Theodore Roosevelt also wrote:

"Since play is a fundamental need, play-
grounds should be provided for every child
as much as schools."

“Neither must any city believe that sim-
ply to furnish open spaces will secure the
best results. . . . They are apt to get into
the possession of gangs and become the
rendezvous of the most undesirable ele-
ments of the population. . . . Play is less
systematic and vigorous without super-
v1ston."

Henry S. Curtis pointed out the ad-
vantages in combining playgrounds, pub-
lic gymnasiums, baths, free public libra-
ries. auditoriums. and thus building great
social centers for the communities. The
grouping of recreation opportunities
seemed to him to bring much greater use.

 

APRlquuz

 

"each feature drawing patronage to the
other."

Luther Halsey Gulick, President of the
Playground Association of America.
wrote:

"A fundamental condition for the perma-
nent development of a free people is that
they shall in childhood learn to govern
themselves. Self-government is to be
learned as an experience. rather than taught
as a theory. Hence in a permanent democ-
racy, adequate playgrounds for all the chil-

dren are a necessity.”

Joseph Lee stated:

“What is wanted on a playground is
not the teaching of baseball (it is difficult
to prevent a boy from acquiring that a-c-
complishment under any conditions), but
the influence of a man or woman of high
character. Children are very imitative; it
is the incidental teaching by example tint
counts, especially on the moral side. and
nowhere else does example count more than

on the playground.”

Thirty—five years ago when the urst
issue of the recreation magazine of the
Association was printed, the early lead-
ers, with great wisdom and with their
feet on the ground, were planning very
much of what has since been built up.

The recreation movement through the
years has been an important, sizable.
significant part of America. The move-
ment has not sought nor has' it had t-lqe
publicity that certain other movements
have. but as a friend of the society wrote
a few days ago after studying its work—
“Here is a real organization really serving
without shouting."

W anWl/du/t/

 

AY DAY, according to voluminous record, has
Man ancient and very mixed ancestry. Simply

by examining our own springtime feelings,
however, we may say with authority that it is one
of the most genuinely instinctive of all folk fes—
tival days.

The “compilers of the church calendar named
May first in honor of St. Philip and St. James the
Less. But the return of spring, the flowering
countryside, the song of the lark and the thrush
made-this present world so entrancing that the
children of men could not readily turn their minds
to heaven and its citizens. In May, they said in
effect, earth was enough! And so its celebration
throughout England, where it took on the charac—
ter that still marks it for us, has been always
chiefly secular and opportunist. “Seize the day!”
“Begone, dull care!” “Gather— hawthorn while ye
may!”——to take liberties with Robert Herrick.
(He, one feels certain, would gladly grant us this
paraphrase of one of his best known lines, for his
lyrics show how keenly he felt the rustle of the
English spring.)

The antiquarians take us back thousands of
years for the beginnings of May festivities. Ancient
lore of Hindustan, Egypt, Phoenicia, Greece, and
Italy, abounds in descriptions of spring rites, all
very elemental and “earthy.” They originated in
the rural districts and gradually spread to the
towns and cities where they fell into bad repute.

uGathering May”

By LEAH SEWELL

Let us by all means keep
alive here in America the
beautiful custom of greet-
ing the May and revive
some of the simple and
lovely old May Day revels

The old Saxons, in their literal, practical fash-
ion, called the month of May “Tri-Miilch,” be-
cause the pastures were so rich at that season that
the cows gave milk three times a day.

When we think of May celebrations, however,
we think chiefly of Middle England—England
before steam and factory whistles had taken pos-
session—~—England that was rugged, but merry,
a truly “green and pleasant land.”

The celebrations were country-wide—none so,
cloddish or over-prudent that he would not lay
down rake and hoe to gather garlands, dance and
sing to greet the May. Different sections had
special local color and their own homely touches
for the occasion.

In the Celtic communities—the Scottish high-
lands, Cornwall, the Isle of Man—fire-lighting on
hilltops was a feature of the day until the early
part of the nineteenth century. The Celts inher-
ited this custom from the Druids, who lighted fires
upon their cairns on the first of May in honér of
Bel—the Baal of the Scriptures.

The Irish had their own version of this prac-
tice. They would light fires at intervals in their
fields and have the cattle pass between them. To
exorcise evil spirits, fathers would sometimes
leap through the flames holding children in their
arms.

In Anglo-Saxon parts of Great Britain the May
ceremonies at first bore some likeness to the Roman

3

4 “GATHERING MA l’”

feasts in honor of Flora. These Floralia, as they
were called, were said to have been instituted by
Romulus, and they lasted from April 28th to May
2nd. They lapsed after a time and then, in 173
B.C., there was a sudden blight on buds and
blossoms, and the feast was restored by senatorial
decree.

The May-pole, so gay and so naive, is given a
sinister origin by many wiseacres, but one wonders
whether the rustics who delighted in dancing and
making merry with the festooned and beribboned
baubles were any more concerned with doubtful
derivations than are our children today! The
Puritans, to be sure, in America as well as in
England, took exception to it. It was condemned
by them as a “stincking idol," and was banned by
the Roundhead Parliament in 1644. But at the
Restoration of Charles II, the peOple, their May
spirit unbroken by the long severity, erected a
huge Maypole in the Strand which stood until
1717 and was finally purchased by no less a per—
son that Sir Isaac Newton, who used it to support
a great telescope.

The custom of carrying May dolls was popular
throughout medieval England, and it survived until
fairly recent times in Devonshire, Cornwall, and
parts of \Vales. This was a slight note of religion
which crept into the revels, for the dolls often
became a mother and child. Historians associate
them with the Roman Flora, but in Tudor Eng—
land it was the Virgin and Child who were re—
membered in this simple way. The May Queen,
too. although a very worldly sovereign, was re-
lated in the minds of the people with the Virgin
Mother, and to this day, in the Roman Catholic
Church, May is called the month of Mary.

A New Spirit Enters

So much for the ancient
background. But somehow
-—-no one knows just when
or where—Robin Hood
made his way into the pic-
ture, merry men, Maid
Marian and all, and one
could readily brush aside all
history and legend on the
matter and believe that May
Day came full-fledged out
of Sherwood Forest in re-
sponse to human necessity
for a feast of joy and mirth.

From this time on, the

 

holiday naturally took on a new tone. The May

games began, and-—-most natural and most de-
lightful part of all—the custom of going to the
woods about midnight and gathering branches of
trees and flowers, coming back at sunrise, and
decorating all the doors and windows throughout
the villages with May garlands. This was called
“gathering May," and as the hawthorn was in
flower then, it began to be called May by the
country folk;

It must have been on these excursions to the
woods that the lasses took to washing their faces
with dew. Mrs. Samuel Pepys, so her famous hus-
band tells us, spent the eve of one May Day in
\Voolwich, “in order to be up betimes, to gather
May-dew . . the only thing in the world to
wash her face with.”

Robin Hood loved the little people well, and
naturally his advent brought sparkle and romance
to May Day doings. A hint of Saint Valentine's
spirit and a bit of Mardi Gras mununery came in
with him. It became a day for lovers, although
old jingles warned against marrying in May.
Sometimes Maid Marian figured as the May

Queen.

There is an old couplet that runs —

The Queen of May is here today
And gives us all a holiday.

A lilting May song of more recent date is filled
with the sentiment of gallantry and romance that

Robin Hood brought with him:

Come out, come out, my dearest dear,
Come out and greet the sun.
The birds awake on tree and brake,

The merry May’s begun.
Come out and drink the diamond dew,

Come out and tread the lea,
The world is all awake and you
Are all the world to me.

After the expedition to
the woods to gather the May
greens and blossoms, there
were the Maypole and Mor—
ris dances on the village
greens. Games and contests
and all manner of clowning
were added from time to
time. A pasteboard hobby
horse was one invention that
long held favor. It was
dragged about the streets
and coins were tossed into a
basket to express approval
of the show.

Not only in rural dis—
tricts, however, was May

Day observed. London had
its own diversions, and
here the day was given
over to pure mumming. It
was the gala occasion of
the year for the milkmaids
and the chimney sweeps.
The milkmaids, dressed in
their finest, had an elabor-
ate procession, leading a
gain decorated cow. Later
they would call upon their
patrons to receive treats
and gifts of money.

The sweeps celebrated in
grand style. They had a

“GATHERING MAY”

"On the calends or first of May. commonly
called May-day. the iuvenile part of both
sexes were wont to rise a little after mid-
night and walk to some neighboring wood. ac-
companied with music and blowing of horns.
where they break down branches from the
trees and adorn them with nosegays and crowns
of flowersrwhen this is done they return with
the booty homewards about the rising of the
sun. and make their doors and windows to
triumph with their flowery spoils; and the after
part of the day is chiefly spent in dancing
around a tall poll. which is called a May-
poll; and being placed in a convenient part
of a village. stands there. as it were. con-
secrated to the Goddess of Flowers. with-
out the least violation being offered it in
the whole circle of the year."—Boume.

who could play tennis or
croquet afterwards. For a
church society or a recrea—
tion group. it would be a
way of getting an early
start and adding a little
lustre to good words.
First, walk to the woods,
or drive, if it is too far,
gather greens and flowers
and then come back for a
breakfast in the garden,
the parish house, or the
community center. May
Day falls on Friday this
year, so it would not be

large parade, dressed in all

manner of grotesque costumes. Stock characters
appeared year after year and were much beloved
by the populace. Jack-in-the-Green was chief
among these. Jack wore a tall superstructure of
light cedar wood completely covered with boughs
and flowers. Only his legs showed-below, as he
went dancing and whirling through the streets to
the delight of the London crowds. Dusty Bob
and Black Sal were his faithful companions year
after year, for Sweeps Day was observed over a
long, highly colored period.

Out of all these traditions only two have sur-
vived to any degree—the May basket and the
Maypole. The May basket is direct offspring of
those old English Maying excursions and the May-
pole is still occasionally seen in city parks. There
are several parts of our country, too, where the
arbutus is called the May Hower and where a
favorite lark is searching for it in wood and field.

Those who are fond of making mystic deduc-
tions. and reading omens into circumstances which
are, to most of us, casual or accidental, might
make something of the fact that our own Pilgrim
Fathers made their fateful journey in the May-
flower—-although they would have been the very
last ones to wish to bring to their ’new world any

reminders of those gay and worldly May Days of
old England.

May Parties for Everybody

Here are some suggestions for May parties that
are in the authentic spirit of the olden times, and
yet appropriate and possible today. 1

A May Day breakfast would be pleasant and
different for those who live in the country or the
suburbs. It would be grand fun for the teen ages,

stretching it too far to
have your breakfast on Saturday morning, when
most people are free. If your friends and neigh-
bors turn a deaf ear because of the early rising,
you can convert your party into a picnic with
slight variations to suit your own circumstances.

An appropriate indoors party would be a county
fair. Have your assembly room decorated to re-
semble a village green. The booths could be push-
'carts where the farmers have brought their wares
on market day. The entertainment features should
not be too formal, for this would violate the spirit
of the day. Square dances and old-fashioned cos-
tnmes would be in order. For music, begin, at
least, with old English airs. The ladies of the
committee could be dressed like milkmaids, and
the men who assist, like chimney sweeps. Select
a master of ceremonies who is clever at patter and
have him recall the old London May Day. The
costumes and setting would be very easy and in—
expensive, and this would make an excellent affair
for raising money, or just for a general get-
together.

There are suitable games that can be played
indoors or out that you' will want to put down on
your program: quoits, an archery contest, cro-
quet, badminton, bowling on the green are all
important, and you must have rustic music, Morris
dancing, and such rural contests as cattle calling,
piping, and weight lifting.

For small children and those in their early teens,
and for schools and community centers, have an old-
fashioned May party out of doors, if possible. But
outdoors or in, by all means make Robin Hood
and his well-loved henchmen the leading lights of
your day. With bright chintz, which is very cheap,

(Continued on page 44)

A Timely Warning to Wartime America

an [Xvi-Jen STA-r23. in
Ttlit estimatil'n Hl lirit-

ish experts. can pre-
vent the increast uf juvc
nile delinquency. in war-
tin t it an pr «m l\_\ sev
eta: g. '4 leM-IIS learned
In a 1 tnnt England.

I‘ r - treat Britain's invenile crime has increased
it H recent and even the reform schools have
rurr‘. \\ ul

Sui .c of the increase may be directly ascribed
tn the u salts of enemy action- -children have been
evacuattr’. from their homes to unfamiliar sur-
I'h-lllltiillgn, families have been broken up by the
destruction of homes and the substitution of the
unhealthiul life of the public shelter; opportuni-
ties f. ir and temptations toward theft have been in-
creased by the blackout.

These causes probably will not arise in any
great degree in the United States, but according
In British social workers there are many other
factors in the rise of juvenile delinquency: '

1. Lack of parental control, due to the preoccu-
pation ~~f parents with other than family concerns.

2. f’reoccupation of police with wartime duties.

3. \bnormally high wages paid to young workers.

4. Disruption of schools, clubs and other estab-
lished centers.

5. r:eneral wartime abandon.

Some Don’ts
"-m in, in the confusion of
u v a . ha 5
male aistakes
v» I. '1 t h e
l ultc-l \tate'

:'1h in ‘tie up

a it “I‘ll
I~ V." r' "r
 ' t 4’
'  l r‘ -

t- \mc «u u;

Avoid Family

Breakup
ls r’l ll"‘ (Ina-‘1‘
H“ w  am

nhcn u “.11

By WILLIAM H. STONEMAN

Juvenile delinquency has increased
fifty percent in Britain. England
gives the United States some advice
based on her own grim experience

"Don't close any clubs or other recrea-
tion centers," is England's advice to us. It

 

can help it. Don’t call up
school teachers for ser-
vices or let them enlist:
expand instead of cutting
down on normal educa-
tional facilities.

2. Don’t close any clubs
or other recreation centers.
Increase activities of all settlements and play-
grounds. A good playground supervisor can do
more for his country by sticking to his job than
by trying to learn to fire a rifle.

3. Avoid the breakup of families by conscript-
ing fathers for military service, or mothers for
industry. If it is necessary to conscript them or
to allow them to enlist, be sure that every child
has some reSponsible relative or friend to care
for him.

4. Don’t throw an army of youngsters into in-
dustry any old way; limit the amount of cash paid
to young people employed in industry.

A Sad Mistake

Much of Britain’s rise in juvenile delinquency
and crime has been due to the disruption of school
life and resulting “oliicially sanctioned truancy.”
Even where schools have continued to operate in
safe areas, systems have been disorganized by
calling up capable teachers for active service.

It is natural for the more red-blooded type of
teacher to try to enlist, and
in this country he was al-

lowed to do so.
was a sad
mistake and one
for which Eng-
land will pay
for a genera-
tion.

British youth
depends to a
large extent on
voluntary clubs
where young-

sters who work
can find whole-

some recreation

(Continued on
page 52)

Barnstorming in the Rockies

U ST as DAWN spread across
J the crag—studded skyline

of the high country,
Barney swung the station
wagon up over Rabbit Ears
Pass. On the seat beside him
Jane rubbed her eyes and breathed deeply of the
crisp sweet air. Far below they saw the silver
ribbon of the Yampa winding through patterned
fields of wheat and alfalfa and miniature Here-
fords grazing along its banks.

“Joe and the scenery have caught up to us,”
Pete reported. “Wake up,” he went on to ad—
monish the others in the rear', snuggled down
between blankets
and costumes.
“Steamboat and
breakfast are just
around the bend.”

“Now that our
one-night stands are
over for the sea-
son, what would
you all like to do
next?” queried Jane
brightly.

The'back seat
stirred. Then came
the firm though
sleepy reply, “Go
on a tour barn-
storming.”

Every cast and
crew of the Perry—
Manslield Theater
Workshop lucky
enough to have
played a summer
circuit of barns,
schoolhouses and
theaters in Colorado
and \Vyoming hank—
ers to go right back
and do it all over
again. Begun only
four years ago, the
annual barnstorm—
ing tour by students

By LILLIAN VON QUALEN

Perry-Mansfield pioneers with
dance and drama in Colorado

 

Colonisfs in "What 50 Proudly We Hail?"

of this well-known summer
theater school near Steam-
boat Springs, Colorado, a
division of the Perry—Mans-
field Camps), has become the
high point of each subsequent
season, and the appearance of its talented troupe
of actors and dancers is looked forward to eagerly
by the gold miners of Hahn’s Peak, ranchers of
the cattle country, and University groups at
Laramie. It all began one August night back in
’39. With only a half hour till curtain time, a
Perry—Mansfield caravan was creeping along
through a wilderness of sage and twisted pii’lons
somewhere in north-
western Colorado.
It was getting colder
as they climbed, and
still.there was no
sign of habitation in
all that inky ex—
panse.

“If we don’t
1' o u n d u p t h at
schoolhouse pretty
soon there won’t be
any opening night,”
Joe predicted
gloornily. “Can’t
you see those Pilot
headlines, ‘What
50 Proudly 1V0
H ail?’ Postponed—
Performers Unable
to Locate Audi-
ence.”

“ 1 s e e s o m e
lights 3” interrupted
loyce. “Who says
the play won’t go
U11?”

Soon the last of
the harnstormers’
cars was parked
among the jalopies
and saddle ponies
in the Elkhead yard.
Costumes, props

7

S BARNSTORJHNG I.\’ THE ROCKIES

and backer were hastily unloaded and carried
into a large barren-looking schoolrooni where an
audience of some two hundred-—-cowboys and
ranclnnen with their wives and children, for the
most part (many of whom had come a hundred
miles to see their first “show") —had already
gathered.

\\'ith western friendliness they helped “set the
stage"——1noved school desks out of the way, ar-
ranged oil lamps for footlights, and shoved a loyal
old piano into position. The cast, meanwhile. un-
daunted by the absence of dressing rooms, slipped
into their 18th century costumes behind blankets
stretched across the back-stage corners and hur-
ried out for the prologue.

As the story of “the first 150 years of American
colonists’ hopes and fears" was unfolded, the on-
lookers were polite, but it was evident that the
background and experience of the majority were
not of a nature to enable them to appreciate his-
torical satire. Some of the older men, who had
served in the first \Vorld \Var, seemed to under-
stand and enjoy the historic picture, and one mas-
sive rancher, after it was over, slapped his thigh
with his ten-gallon hat and exclaimed, “If we’d
a-knowed this was what you was goin’ to put on
we’d a-had the whole American Legion up here."

If the reaction to the satire was disappointing,
the appreciation of the dances and pantomime
more than made up for it, and when Harriette
Anne and two of the boys whirled into Charles
\Veidman’s Cowboy Dance they “whooped and
hollered” for more. In the lusty square dancing
that wound up the evening the cast had to “step
lively” to keep up with their partners from the
audience and were the first to admit they’d had
enough of “hold your holts and swing like thunder.”

Long after midnight the actors called out their
last good-byes and started homeward through the
sage. Hours later, weary but relieved to have
hurdled their “opening night," they turned up by
Butcher Knife Creek on the last lap to camp.

The following week the harnstormers went on
the road in earnest, this time heading up the high-
way that follows the old Ute trail between Steam—
boat and the head of the Muddy. After time out for
lunch along Roaring Fork, they crossed the
\Vyoming line and sped on toward Laramie where
they finally tracked down the University theater,
a handsome new structure of overwhelming pro-
portions.

One look at the vast stage and Ginny inquired
weakly, “Are you sure this is the place, Kingo?

It looks more like Mr. Rockefeller’s Music Hall
to me.” Further investigation provided other ep-
openers. Drnsa discovered a perfectly-tuned grand

piano in the wings and Jane reported breath ,
“Wait till you see the dresssing rooms!

of Elkhead!"

The rehearsal clicked off like magic
crew, under the tutelage of an obliging
learned the mysteries of pulleys, cables and .
switchboard. After dinner in the pretentio

mons, all hurried back to plunge into

of make-up time. The performance diam
was received with understanding and apprem
by a capacity audience of Summer Session pm.-
sors and students, and on the long drive M,
between snatches of the “Cowboy Lullalg'" (1
other favorites, the tired troupers talked 0% 1
relish the events of an exciting day.

Their next appearance, the following 3‘, ~ '
at Hayden, a mere forty miles from home. (2‘
of a prosperous cattle, horse and sheep ‘ I
Hayden nestles in a rich valley with ferti'IF l
stretching for miles on either side, and is
of the region’s business, social and odu
activities. On the stage of its fine modem" 1..
school, the visiting players performed will: He
and sureness for an intelligent, enthusiastic --
ence. After congratulations and packing up *Qy
drove back to Steamboat in high Spirits for mid-
night hot cakes and coffee at the Everready.

The following afternoon the Perry-Mansfield
caravan crossed the beautiful Elk River valley and
climbed to the mining settlement of Hahn’s Peak, .
famous in the old days for the fortunes washed
from the golden sands of the looming peak beyond.
A mile or so further on they bounced over a mm-
off and finally drew up before a log cabin in a
pine clearing where all seven members of the
\Vheeler family, their hosts, were preparing a wel-
come. Campfires crackled under the Dutch ovens,
supper was almost ready, and its climax, W'heeIEr-
made ice cream packed in freezers, stood on the
cabin porch.

The \Vheelers are remarkable, even in this
region. In the fall of 1921 James and Rose
\Vheeler, with three tiny children, a shepherd dog
and $3.50 arrived from Sterling, Colorado, to take
over their first homestead on this very site. They
built the cabin in front of which the Perry—Mans-
fielders now stood—mud-chinked, with a dirt roof "
and pine floor and heated by an old wood stove
packed in on mules over the Laramie trail. That
first winter the snow averaged six feet on the level

L

  
  

BARNSTORMING IN THE ROCKIES 9

 

At Hahn's Peak Jrl'le workshop group ioins
the Hill Billy Orchestra and takes part

in cowboy dances with ranchers and miners

and their income consisted
of twenty dollars eked out
by what James earned pack-
ing dynamite, cutting and hand-sledding wood at
a dollar a day for the Blue Jay Gold Mine, and ten
dollars his wife made by tatting. They lived on
sourdough pancakes, bread and gravy and wild
game, but with the zest and boundless energy she
still retains, Rose found time to make up songs,
learn to ski and play poker.

Now, grown to a large and happy family, the
Wheelers have acquired 168 acres in addition to
their original homestead, the house in which they
now live, a former ranger’s station, and a goodly
number of cattle, horses, sheep and chickens. The
Wheeler orchestra, renowned throughout the
countryside is composed solely of members of the
family, and the Pine Dale Dance Hall, where the
Perry-Mansfielders were to perform, was owned

and built by James with the help of his two
older sons.

After supper and a bit of “Home on the Range”
and “Round-up Time in Texas,” to the twang of

Rex Wheeler’s guitar, the
players started up the hill to
the dance hall to dress for
their performance. Fortunately no scenery had
been brought along, and one glance around the
log dance hall, lamp-lit, with a wood stove in one
corner and benches lining the walls was enough
to settle the costume question. Not even blanket
dressing rooms were possible here but Barney
observed, “Shakespeare’s been done in modern

dress, too.”

So, with the aid of such headgear and minor
props as could be snatched from the railing behind
them in the course of the action, and staunchly
backed up by Drusa at an ancient upright, the
barnstormers put on their most unusual perform-
ance. The audience reacted much as did that at
Elkhead; if anything these ranchers and their fami-
lies, miners, cowboys and “sawmill savages” were
even more perplexed. The only ones who seemed
to grasp whatever style and art quality the per-
formance had were the Wheelers and some Mexi-

can sheepherders.

10 B.»fR.\'S'I'OR.lU.\’C IN THE ROCKIES

But soon everyone was engulfed in the real
business of the evening. the liveliest square danc-
ing in Routt County. to a rousing Wheeler ac-
companiment and with rancher Crawford shouting
the calls. Until long past midnight the cowboy
and the lady. the gold prospector and concert
dancer. joined in “do-si-do" with hearty abandon.

Two nights later the tour reached its culmina-
tion at Andy Anderson's famous A Bar A Ranch,
near Encampment in the wildly beautiful section
of \Vyoming between the Medicine Bow and
Sierra Madre Ranges. One of three Anderson
ranches totalling 20,000 acres, over which run
2.000 head of cattle, A Bar A is a de luxe estab-
lishment, and the bamstormers prepared with
some fear to face an audience of sophisticates.

The huge hay barn, the theater for the night,
presented technical problems never before encoun-
tered. but the well-seasoned crew took them in
their stride and set up lights, props and flats in
record time. The actors discovered that their cos-
tume changes this time were to take place in a
harness room and oat bin, but by now adaptability
was their outstanding virtue!

It was after eight when the dudes drifted in to
fill up the wooden benches in the “orchestra” and
to perch on the new-mown hay piled up for a
“mezzanine.” Through cracks in the door came
the pleasant smells and sounds of horses and cows
munching their feed in clean stalls. Then the open-

ing lines of the prologue. . . . At first the response .

was a bit ribald but gradually it changed to quiet
and intereSted attention and by the third act. much
to the players' surprise, this sophisticated audience
turned out to be the most enthusiastic of all.

Following some after-theater socializing in the
Round-up Hall and a good night’s sleep in luxuri-
ous guest cottages. the Perry-Mansfielders headed
for camp. this time reluctantly, for their barn-
storming days were now over.

In th—e summer of 19.10 a second group tried out
the fun of barnstorming, this time with an original
revue called “. . . And a Time to Dance.” featur-
ing dances which mirrored the periods of the 70’s.
the 90's. the first \Vorld “’ar, Boom, Depression
and the beginning of \Vorld War II. Included in
this company were a former technical director of
the Pasadena Playhouse, Humphrey-\Veidman.
soloist and premiere danseuse of the Chicago and
San Francisco opera companies. the musical di-
rector of the Vassar Dance Club. a pianist who
was a member of the staff of N BC. a cousin of the
Rt. Hon. Anthony Eden, and a dancer widely

known for her work with teachers’ groups of th
Church of the Latter Day Saints. A performance
at the magnificent Fine Arts Center in Colorndp
Springs (a modern masterpiece completed i

at the cost of $600,000) was an exciting a

to the 1939 itinerary. Last summer the _
storming selection was Eugene O’Neill's 

Millions,” a handsome production in which GP
drama, music and art were closely correh!‘

As a result of all these experiences the «SW
of the Perry-Mansfield Theater W orkShOp ‘
concluded that in order to be receptive to a
through any art medium most people must be 1.1-
posed to it from childhood. There are excepti-em
of course, the musical Wheelers and the Mexican
sheepherders, for instance. But as a rule there
seems to be a significant relationship between cul-
tural background and understanding, and m
seeking to entertain those lacking in the for!”
Miss Perry feels it is wise to avoid anything '1
primarily serious mood but to offer instead
thing in decorative and humorous form In “-
phasis on feats of skill. I

Perry-Mansfield plans to include a .
dance-drama and short play for the coming b n-
storming season, offering this variety in theme .id
approach so that whatever is suitable for eachw
of audience will be offered to it. With the nation
at war and tire-saving a patriotic duty, the itin-
erary will omit the more distant “stands” and ui-l-l
include instead more appearances in the near-by
back country with greater opportunities for a
closer relationship between cast and audience, the
farming and ranching families of the W'estern
Slope. The cast might even spend the day on me
of the ranches helping with the haying, round-ing
up the cattle and feeding the stock and, in the cae-
ning, putting on their performance and joining in
the square dancing afterwards with their friends
of the countryside.

Another innovation will be the formation of a
laboratory workshop as an experimental unit of
the stage production department, to be directed by
graduate students of the Theater \Vorkshop who
are doing outstanding work in that field at Vassar
and Bennington. This group will be responsible
for all sets and equipment used on tour, and for the
direction of several student performances.

And so, in spite of new uncertainties and prob-
lems, Perry-Mansfield troupers are looking for-
ward once again to the surprises and joys of an-
other barnstorming tour in the Rockies.

Nature Recreation in Essex County's Parks

reation as conducted in the Essex County,

New Jersey, parks is a new activity or that it
is a part of the summer playground program only.
We may thank the National Recreation Associa-
tion for the initial stimulus to do something in this
field because it was Dr. \Villiam G. Vinal’s part
in the institute conducted in Newark in 1936 which
literally opened our eyes to the possibilities exist—
ing not only in the larger parks and reservations,
but even in the smaller city parks.

IT WOULD not be accurate to say that nature rec-

Dr. Vinal, who was then nature specialist on
the staff of the National Recreation Association,
introduced to the members of the institute W’illiani
E. Dillon, a nationally known naturalist, who had
been director of the Downtown Boys’ Club of
Newark for the past ten years. Among other things
Mr. Dillon told the members of the institute that
he had taken a group of Scouts down the east side
of Broad Street, Newark, and back on the west
side, and in this two mile walk he had been able
to point out sixty-two nature objects, including an
owl. If this were possible on one of the busiest
thoroughfares of the coun—
try, certainly there should
be many things of inter—
est in a ten acre city park,
to say nothing of what
might be found in the
parks of from one hun—
dred to four hundred
acres and in reservations.

A very modest begin-
ning was made in 1937,
but we were off to a good

Professor Kovald. in
his ranger's uniform.
conducts a group of
children on a hike in
South Mountain Res-
ervation. This is a
feature of a one-day
picnic which each of
the playgrounds en-
joys during August.

By L. C. WILSEY

Supervisor of Recreation
Essex County Park Commission

start in 1938 when Mr. Dillon conducted one ses-
sion on each of the two days of our own institute
for playground workers which preceded the be—
ginning of the playground season. When Mr.
Dillon took part in the institute he wore the re—
galia of a chief of the Penobscot Indians, having
been given this rank by the tribe in 1900. The
name they conferred on him was “Chief Opie
Dilldock,” meaning the nature story man. The
council ring in which Mr. Dillon conducted his
sessions is one of a number established as a result
of Dr. Vinal’s inspiration and is located in Grover
Cleveland Park near Caldwell, a park pronounced
a “naturalis’t’s paradise” by both Dr. Vinal and
Mr. Dillon. '

The start was good in a number of ways. One

(Continued on- pagc 52)

 

There is a Time for Play

m: ravens tell us that

England is still going ahead

in as nearly a normal way
as possible. The golf courses
were used last summer and
will be used again this coming
summer. The moving picture dry
houses—pardon me, the cine-
mas—are said to be crowded and setting new at-
tendance records. My friend sneered when he
heard that such was the case and opined that Bri-
tain was not so hard hit if she could still go to
the movies. He seems to think that they should
be working every minute of the day and that they
should be carrying a face a foot long. Not so!
Not so at all. \Ve—as well as Britain—are most
fortunate in having an ally who has sense enough
to keep himself emotionally fit by easing off the
tension at every opportunity that affords itself.

Once upon a time I was sitting with a musical
friend watching an artist perform on the violin.
During the intervals of rest he seemed to be tid-
geting with his bow, and I commented on the fact
that he seemed nervous. “No,” said my better-
informed friend, “he is resting his bow by easing
off the tension, so that the bow will keep its re-
siliency for the time when he really needs it.”

It is just as important that we know how to let
loose of a task as it is that we know how to take it
up. One can accomplish astonishing results if he
can work awhile, then rest awhile and keep up that

procedure indefinitely. One needs to unbend and o

take his ease occasionally and at such a time any”-
thing that takes his mind entirely off the work in
hand is particularly useful in maintaining ef-
ticiency. There are those persons who seem to
think that they are lying down on the job if they
lay down the job for an in-
stant. There are persons who
go to bed at night apparently
holding on to the bedpost for
fear it will get away. Obvi-
ously such is not the best way
to get one's rest.

It is said that the war will
be a long one, and even a war
of two years' duration seems
like a long one or will seem

12

By THURMAN B. RICE, MD.

This statement by Dr. Rice, who is
Editor of the Monthly Bulletin pub-
lished by the Indiana State Board

of Health, appeared in the Janu-

I942 issue of the Bulletin.

"The special service the arts can*ren-
der is to provide not escape from. but
refreshment for renewed conflict. that
quietness of spirit. that inward poise and
command of life which everyone needs
but which is increasingly ditiicult of at-
tainment in the hurried tempo of our
living. That quietness great literature does
bring. perhaps only for a brief moment,
but in that moment richly and effective-
ly.”-George Reynolds in Education.

like it before it is done. It be-
hooves us then to get out of
this period of initial excite-
ment and confusion as quickly
as we can and get down to the
real work of the day—not for-
getting the need of the night,
too, for rest, relaxation and
recreation. It is only so that we shall be able to
hold out and be present at the victory—not the
armistice—celebration.

\\’e are told that the shortage of rubber is
going to be such that there will be no more golf
or tennis balls made. Now it may well be that in
our anxiety to cooperate a mistake is being made
there. It doesn’t take much rubber to make a ten-
nis ball, but a couple of tennis balls can keep four
kids busy and out of mischief for many an after-
noon. At the same time it is developing strength,
Speed and agility which will stand in good stead
when these young people are needed as soldiers.
One rubber tire would make a great many golf
balls, and it might well be that the tired executive
would greatly profit—even from the standpoint of
waging an effective war—by having a spot of golf
to look forward to at the end of a long day at the
desk. In making these statements we certainly
have no wish to embarrass those who are respon-
sible for the rationing of rubber (God knows their
job is an important and a difficult one), but only
to call attention to an important matter as one
being worthy of thought.

The early American made a serious mil-take
when he supposed that any sort of play was waste-
ful and foolish, or even sinful. One was ex-
pected to work hard for six days and then to
work even harder on Sunday trying his best not‘
to do anything at all. In re-
cent years we have seen the
fallacy of this plan and we
must not in the present emu-cr-
gency entirely give up what
we have learned. Our very
existence depends upon our
ability to absorb the hurts
and shocks which the next
few months and years are

sure to bring. We are in the
(Continued on page 53)

Emergency Crafts

RAFT TEACHERS are now hav-
C ing an excellent opportunity

to show their resourcefulness in adapting
their techniques and skills to the use of new ma-
terials. The'government has placed very neces-
sary restrictions on tools, equipment, and many of
the supplies ordinarily used in conducting craft
programs with the result that many of the stand-
ard craft projects are no longer available. Cop-
per, rubber, paper, pottery glazes, photographic
supplies, and many other items are rapidly dis-
appearing from the market.

The craft teacher who is alert and resourceful
in cooperating in the national emergency is busy
designing new craft projects that are practical and
can be made from salvaged materials. He is in-
venting new equipment, making homemade tools,
and finding new uses for old ones. The weaving
teacher is now weaving grass mats for air raid
shelters; the shop teacher is designing “scram”
boxes of scrap wood; the metal teacher is making
first aid kits from tin cans.

The designing and construction of blackout and

‘

By A. F. MAINLAND

emergency lights from tin cans is
a craft which has been recently
added to the metal program at the W PA Recre-
ation Training School in New York City. The
wall sconce is made of flat tin. A small tumbler
holds a sanctuary candle. Two of the wall and
table models have a strap on the back to hold a
book of matches. (In the interest of safety the
matches should be taken out when the candle is
lighted.) The lantern chimney is made of a pea-
nut butter jar with the bottom cut out.

The tools required for this type of tin craft are
very simple. The basic tools are a soldering iron,
flux and solder, heavy shears, and a key type can
opener. The supplementary tools include a light
hammer, a straight edge to bend the tin over,
pliers, and a file. The polishing is done with fine
steel wool (3/0) or a mild scouring powder.

Some of the lamps use the tin cans in their
original form. Others, such as the wall sconce,
are made of flat tin. This means that the top and'
bottom were cut out of the can with tin shears,

(Continued on page 50)

 

 

x (it"rtxmtt CARNIVAL on every playground,

A tree to every participator—this was the big—

gest single development made in Racine’s
summer playground program in 1941.

In seeking a new activity to take the place of
r ne that had declined in popularity, the playground
staff of the Racine Department of Recreation de-
cided upon an outdoor carnival that would make
every visitor a participant. Not often is it that an
event is more successful than is anticipated. At-
tendance was most gratifying, for the children
publicized well the activities which they themselves
were sold on and were keen to pass along to their
parents. The biggest mistake made in planning
the carnival for the first time was in not having
prepared for the large numbers of people who
came to participate. In another year, preparations
will be made on a larger scale.

Publicity for the carnival started approximately
two weeks beforehand in the playground weekly
newspaper. During the next week, play leaders
discussed ideas with the children. ’toys and girls
signed up for lxmtlts, and anyone with an original
idea was permitted to have charge of that activity.
Posters advertising the carnival appeared on play-
gmund bulletin boards and in the neighborhood
stores. (ity newspaper articles gave additional
publicity.

( hildren were left to their own resources in the
construction of booths. Many of them were made
from orange crates decorated with crepe paper.
'niese booths were managed entirely by the chil-
dren. with advice given by the play leaders when
necessary. Barkers, ticket takers, and crepe paper
streamers on swings, slides, and other playground

H

An
Outdoor
Carnival

on the

Playground

By
GENEVIEVE L. BRAUN

Miss Braun. a member of the staff of
the Department of Physical Education
for Women of the University of Minne~
sotaI has served during the summer as
playground supervisor in the Depart-
ment of RecreationI RacineI Wisconsin

apparatus provided a genuine carnival atmosphere.
Prizes made by the children during their regu—
lar handcraft hours on the playground were dis-
tributed to all winners. Girls eagerly contributed
small articles such as crepe paper flowers, dolls,
fans, beads, bracelets, and hats, while boys made
wooden pins, animals, and other small articles.

Admission tickets were mimeographed by the
Recreation Department, one ticket for each activity
being distributed without cost to every person.
Ticket booths were conspicuously placed at the
most logical point of entrance to the playground.

All activities were run simultaneously. PeOple
could then wander from one to another according
to their interests. To bring the whole show to a
climax. many playgrounds held either a short ama—
teur show or a freak show just before dark.
\\'here facilities permitted, others ended their car-
nival with singing or marshmallow roasts around
a large bonfire. The children prove to be very
original in their suggestions and in the arrange-
ment of activities. This was encouraged by choos-
ing appropriate leaders and helpers and by allow-
ing the children to experiment with promising
ideas.

AN OUTDOOR CARNIVAL ON THE PLAYGROUND 15

Everyone likes to fish for a prize. Thus the line
of children awaiting their turns at the Fish Pond
was extremely long. Two fish ponds would make
for more efficient organization. The pond was a
space behind a barrier large enough to hide the
child who attached a prize to the fish hook each
time it appeared. For this activity there must be a
large number of prizes. Many children contributed
old toys and jewelry and other small articles that
were no longer wanted at home.

The fortune telling booth was also distinguished
with a long waiting line. \Vherever possible, a
tent was either brought from home or constructed
from long sticks and blankets. Tom-tom players
provided atmosphere outside the door while the
fortune teller, appropriately veiled, sat in the door-
way telling short fortunes to everyone. Imagina-
tive children prepared the fortunes ahead of time
so they could be read with the aid of a flashlight.

Throwing darts at inflated balloons tempted
adults as well as youngsters at the “Balloon Bust.”
For his ticket, each person was given two or three
trials from a fair distance. Breaking a balloon was
a reward in itself. Placement of this activity must
be carefully chosen for safety. Darts should be
thrown at a blank walL

A “Kissing Booth,” run by attractive girls,
aroused the curiosity of many participants who re-
ceived a candy kiss after entering the enclosure.
Bingo games brought from home by the children
were especially popular with the parents. Hand-
craft prizes were distributed to all winners.

“Spill the Milk” was arranged by using three
tenpins and a softball.
Other playground games
such as washers, bean
bags, and ring—o-lett were

sformed into carnival
games of skill by modi-
fying the rules m that
the participant might re-
ceive a prize after a fair
number of trials.

Most popular in the
Freak Show, which
proved an adequate cli-
max to the carnival, were
the Siamese twins, a boy
 on nails, a bearded

The Recreation Department of Racine,
Wisconsin, last summer proved that
outdoor carnivals. planned to last
from six o'clock until darlt. will fit
readily into any weel: of the summer
playground program and are guaranteed
to provide a full and exciting eve-
ning for all members of the family.

midget, a wild man, and children who could do
magic tricks. Stages made from playground tables
enabled everyone to see the performers.

Many ideas could be added to a carnival such as
this. Small admission charges could be made for
money—earning purposes. It may be used as a mid-
season or an end-of-the-season climax to the sum-
mer playground season. Previous thought and or-
ganization by the play leaders is very essential,
but when well planned, this activity as a whole
should be a big success for anyone who tries it.

Interest in such carnivals as Miss Braun de-
scribes in her article is increasing everywhere.
Individuals or groups interested in putting on an
event of this kind in connection with their summer
recreation programs will find additional informa-
tion in an article entitled “A Cranmunity Play-
ground Carnival,” by David R. Kibby, which ap—
peared in the May 1941 issue of RECREATION.
Available from the National Recreation Associa-
tion at I 5 cents is “A Playground Fair,” a pag-
eant held together by a carnival theme that is
adaptable to all kinds of situations.

 

Recreation at Emergency Trailer Camps

ru—

t .1-
" .. t I t
. .. h . .-. p. i I r W tmlv hail
u -' -' °’ 'r t' Mar Maw w: em
. l- a ~  'un Ll] outnum tent

. .u l-r \iulnl t i make tht

3" ‘1‘ a, , h v.
 {<- .*: .' i . “t; ailuuut bupernatnnlcut.

tutu-rs ,nd District Supervisor

5' .tti ' Ll t: \\ 1' \ Recreation Project for
~ . a; nuptial.) arched canditiuns at the
t n :11 c ~11. :1 ~ lint-.3 itiutid the people there

' 7 '. Fat-5 u-~.-_~c:¢‘_ 'ietful humesick. and as a whole
nu. «tier. “nth “heir Int The children refiected
at 1.111 at:- unhappy state of mind by being

-  lrl'tfrelm he and wild. When people from

2'; inferent states are forced to live in a
. w 1N it"ed area, the very difference of
' .i~ 114.. 1nd 'rt'havior tends to keep them

'* ' '. ling t. mum; interest and friendly under-
‘ 1- '1 «8 l‘rilt‘ it "U'Ritlf
--~ "a? -c from 1 leader.

A recreation center tor each
of the emergency trailer camps
is the obiective of the Recrea-
tion Department ot San Diego

Community singing is a well-liked activity

Recreation permits these
new neighbors to meet on
common ground in a —“Hi,
Neighbor" — spirit, and to
find pleasure in cultivating a
new friendship. It shows
them how to enjoy leisure
hours and helps to relieve worry over the safety
of children near the waterfront. Once the ice
was broken by the leaders it was easy to find out
which recreation activity had the greatest appeal.
They did this by exhibiting arts and crafts
products and hobbies from other areas and by
inquiries which games or plays are known or
would be of interest.

To quote at random replies to questions about
the popularity of recreation activities among the
campers:

“I don’t think of bombers and such things when
I'm with the club here.”

“I didn’t expect to find so many friends away
from home. Making beautiful things of your own
is grand.”

“Now I can wash in peace at the com-
munity laundry without worrying every minute
if one of the kids has fallen
in the bay.”

in the recreation program for trailer camps

up

 

f - - *u‘h-u- -L.~HWMMV .. - .- “I. . - an ,r u'a-c-c' 7.: ‘

.~;-:- \'("'

 

WILLIE MADGE BRYANT

Pasadena Settlement Association
Pasadena, California

There are suggestions here
for recreation departments
and other groups using the
"Good Neighbor" theme in

their recreation programs

 

Photo by Bryant

T IS Two O’CLOCK of a Saturday afternoon in

l I May, at ,the Pasadena Mexican Settlement

House, Pasadena, California. A vendor, dressed

in the white calcones (pants), pink shirt, and big

straw hat of the Mexican peon, moves about the

grounds. “Quien quiere tacos? Quien quiere

tacos?” Above the seller stretch the gay octagonal

umbrellas, the awnings of yellow and blue and

magenta. On all sides are flowers: trays of
flowers, tubs of flowers, baskets of flowers.

Girls in China poblana costume move in and
out, laughing, squealing, as some admirer breaks
a cascarone over their heads and the confetti spills
out to make bright jewels in their blue—black hair.
These are club girls, selling, from the painted trays
suspended from ribbons around their necks, cigar—
ettes, cascarones, candy, gilded fortune nuts.
Money jingles merrily into their little cloth change
sacks.

To the north of the grounds the walls of the
garage and craft shops are kalsomined a tropical
pink for the occasion. Against them a_ banana tree
weaves its exotic pattern. To the west crouches
the low brown Settlement House, the brick patio
overhung by sweet—smelling acacia. To the south
the great gas tanks of the city loom, and to the

east are the tracks. The trains roll by at intervals
like the chorus of a song, and the curious faces of
the passengers press against the window panes.

At one side, over low charcoal stoves, squat the
taco makers, their brown ragged children playing
tag in and out among the near-by booths. The tor—
tillas (ready—made because so many tacos will be
made and sold so quickly) are stacked in dozens
on the tables behind the workers, the onions and
cheese and chopped lettuce ready to be added to
the hamburger they are frying for filling. Impa-
tient hands, white and brown, stretch down, hold—
ing out money and receiving the dripping and
tasty tacos.

Back by the fence are the orichillada women,
and from near—by comes the gratifying, spine-
chilling sound of the ice blocks being scraped by
the little metal box to get shaved ice for the
crunchy raspadas.

The ground lights are turned on as the quick
California night falls, and the scene is flooded
with even greater contrasts.

From a platform high in the center of the fiesta
grounds Float the strains of a typica orchestra (two
guitars and a fiddle), and there is a hurrying to
see the Jarabe and Sandunga dancers present their

17

it‘ t t

I a; . \ xi. \uat.‘ lil(‘\

.\t ’ s ' I t‘ «I  t.\l\'\‘ ll iI'Tv.

~‘ ' t  s 't ' 't I ' .Mi'h I \iill‘utn. all -\\

' >, .  .~ o 'e x t. .t ' tumautt'lau'.
~‘ ' I t - t'r ft state

o ~ . . ' .s ‘ ‘ 5 .Jt-u 'u\ 'vl": ll. ‘1'“ -‘\lllg

‘ -- -. . , ' - . u a I‘l t 1," Mutual]. ' ml

in . '- i W» >“t '1' t1u|*'.'('3 thdl "ctlttilt

' . w .x. ' a ~°.t“.u it‘\l§.;lll.i 1H hint“ I‘ll

s. t o ' t t \ .-‘u 'v '.' “\t" \IC'XM an ht‘lulrt‘b}

. t a . ' t ' ' .u...‘ .t 'l at ll‘lt' l it'dln.‘ l'lascalteca.

it a ‘ _.. .k s u at t .5 i1. - n liamyartls. the

t t g r. e " ,A_  r. 1" H: dig and intricatt

.' a \ .  : ’.:~ ill-«mu! h) the fast.lwlm'ed

' I ..  - n .\ '... .r.l Wu. National Mexican

'la n l m u t" w. .u the ltjtiatta bjandunga.
\' v '- k x- ~ll‘utt-s t . ‘.11( danc-
.~ .0: Hanged run? white

ll ~t ~ A" m. L l Llltl will“.

Children at the Pasadena SeH’lemenf
House are convinced lhere's no fun

to compare with breaking a pinata

 

.I.\ f [51.1

i.nl.lLt:~]-llh mm, to exquisitely embroidered satins
.ui magenta. purl' 1e, cream. turquoise, rose. The
insultil'ul long hair of the girls is topped by in-
t rcdihle lace and net headdresses fashioned like a
lialiy's christening dress, and the bottoms of the
ull shuts are handed with pleated ruliles a full
twelxe imhes wide.

Screams ui delight shatter the last bars of the
music as a prosperous looking Nordic business
man is hustled nt‘f tn “jail” by ragged young Mexi-
can buys. [here [n he imprisoned in plain sight of
the crmsd until he pays a tine for release. To
make his sentence lighter to bear, two bewitching
genuritas are rushed into jail with him. and the
\I'U\\'(.l pushes close and rears its delight as they
twit the prisoner and his charming companions.
The business men who have
come with him join in the up-
roar. The man pays his fine

0
‘
‘
L

h
d
'-
O
l

-
O
-
§
.
’
h

A MEXICAN FIESTA 19

good naturedly, and comes out to play at the
loteria tables or at the penny toss game run by the
excited smaller boys.

\Ve visit the near-by women’s booths. Here the
Senora V aladez sells thick, sweet atole, to be eaten
with a spoon from heavy china cups. Her daughter
Teresa offers you a bumlelo, and laughs as you
bite into it and the powdered sugar sprinkles
whiter down across your clothes. In the _next
booth Senoras Gallegos and Orozco have the
women’s bazaar, exquisite Mexican drawn work on
towels, pillow cases, handkerchiefs, luncheon sets.
Here is a handmade bedspread to be raffled off.
It has been made by the seventy-one-year-old
Senora Tellez, and the pattern is the ancient Aztec
rose.

An artist has his easel set 11p and is sketching,
making a dozen notes to be translated later into
water color and oils. A news photographer takes
a shot of two little boys selling pinata: from a
long pole stretched between them. Somebody
calls out that in a minute a donkey-shaped pinata
will be broken on the other side of the grounds. and
we hasten across to watch the earger faces of the
children. \Vhen will the cane finally break the
oya and the precious candy and nuts come spilling
to the ground?

Across the way Don Pedro Alvarado, the crafts—
man, demonstrates on his wheel how primitive
Mexican pottery is made. Around him are stacked
vessels already made and tired, and we buy a
casserole of the henna-brown ware, knowing how
long it will hold the heat of the oven. “7 e buy, too,
a big brown jar. This we shall fill with drinking
water, for the constant evaporation through the
clay walls keeps water ice cold on the hottest days.

Next we go to Carmelo the tin worker, fash—
ioning delicate swans of tin. He has a large dis-
play of his work——-burro_s, mirrors, lamps, Christ—
mas trees. Carmelo likes his work and is very
jealous of it. He will not make a piece for you if
you try to hurry him, or if you insist on your own
way. He is an artist and will carry out his own
ideas in his own time.

Then comes the six piece dance band to play
for the dancing on the handball court. The play-
ers break into modern swing, and a jitterbug ses-
sion is under way. Born of generations of music—
loving, dance-loving people, these young Mexi-
cans, some clad in native costume, some in Ameri—
can street clothes, nearly all American born, surge
into the pulsating give-and-take of the modern
American dance.

Around the cemented dance floor, the dark-
faced mothers sit in a solemn square, many with
rebogos over their heads, children in their laps,
children at their knees, all intent on watching the
dance. Back under the trees, or against the walls
of the buildings, stand the fathers. Their talk is
of politics and of olden times. These older men
drink surreptitiously now and then from their
bottles, knowing that drinking is not approved by
the people in charge.

At twelve midnight the music stops and slowly
the crowd disperses. The ground is inch deep in
confetti, serpentine, papers, flowers. The orches—
tra puts away its instruments and the piano is
moved back into the Settlement.

Club members work like beavers to get chairs
stacked, booths cleared. Everything which might
be stolen or carried away or destroyed is brought
in, leaving only the work of cleaning and sweep-
ing and tearing away frames for those who return
on Monday morning.

The cashier sits under a light in the office, roll-
ing pennies, nickels, and dimes into paper contain—
ers before he locks the money into the safe. Tired
staff members help hunt the last lost article—a
board member’s spectacles. '

Finally the lights are turned out and the Settle-
ment is quiet once more. Another ann'ual fiesta,
with its weeks of preparation, its color, its charm,
its hard work, has been added to the calendar of
past achievements. ' '

Legend of Mexican Terms

Taco——-l\'Iexican sandwich made of tortilla fried
in deep fat, doubled over and filled with lettuce,
cheese, tomato sauce, onions, fried hamburger.
Fillings can also be of chicken or avocado or beans.

China poblana — Conunonesti—known Mexican
costume. Red, white, green, the skirt embroid—
ered with sequins. Copied centuries ago from a
jewel-embroidered dress of a Chinese princesskid—
napped by pirates and brought to Mexico. The
term means “village dress of a Chinese.”

Cascarone—Hollow eggshells filled with con-
fetti (often made of finely-cut crepe paper), and
painted in gay colors. Often the eggs are painted
like watermelons, flowers, faces, etc. Made to be
broken over the heads of one’s friends.

Enchillada—A tortilla is fried slightly, filled with
chopped cheese, onions, black olives. It is rolled
like a jelly roll and dipped into chili sauce. Often

(Continued on page 51)

First Aid for Recreation Supplies

araxxxxc maximum

service from recrea-

tion supplies has long
been an objective of recrea—
tion administrators. Stretch-
ing the supply budget has heretofore been the chief
motivating factor. Today this problem is more
acute because in addition to the budget question,
our national emergency has made it necessary to
accept substitute materials, get along with fewer
items. and in some cases do without a number of
supplies, especially those containing or made of
rubber.

\Ve may ultimately have to rebuild our recrea-
tion activity program around those supplies that
are available and place less emphasis upon those
activities requiring recreation supply items difh-
cult to obtain. This eventuality can be pushed
farther into the future if intelligent care is given
to the (1) Purchase, (2) Proper Use and Care,
and finally (3) Repair of Recreation Supplies and
Materials that are now available. Many hours of
additional service can be obtained from recreation
supplies if a little forethought is given to each of
the above factors, all of which enter into the sub-
ject of “First Aid for Recreation Supplies.”

Buying Recreation Supplies

The old adage, “It is not how much you sell
for, but how much you buy for that counts,” is in
a sense applicable to recreation supplies. Intelli-
gent buying will at the outset assure one of a low
unit cost, and the quality of the item will be such
that it will stand severe use and permit of much
repair. \Vhen that item is put in use it is being
"sold," and the length of
service and final satisfac-

By L. A. ORSATTI

Senior Recreation Director
Department of Playground and Recreation
Los Angeles, California

ful set of detailed recreati—t
supply specifications which
establish the standard la
the items purchased. If ell-V-
eral hundreds or thousanO
of dollars worth of supplies are to be bought, it is
usually well to request competitive bids, givim
each bidder a set of the specifications to which ti
items must conform. In addition, bidders should
submit samples which may be used by the pur-
chasing agency iu any way it desires to assist it in
making its choice.

Specifications such as those described are digi—
cult to obtain; indeed, there appears to be a need
for information of this kind that well might be
made a basis for study by a research committee in
this field. It may be necessary for a recreation
department to develop its own, paying especial at-
tention to those features such as stitching, materiel,
color, etc., which experience indicates need to be
carefully specified.

V‘Vhen making up specifications, the following
are some points to be considered: size; weight;
standard or official performance; materials corn—
posing the product; color ; stitching (size and ma-
terial of thread, type of stitch, number of stitches
per inch); construction; finish (smooth, peb‘ble
grain, etc.); maximum and minimum dimensions
or weights acceptable.

The following detailed specification for a play-
ground ball will illustrate the manner in which
such standards can be prepared. The reasons for
requiring a lock-stitch, an out-scam, cork center,
etc., will not be entered into here; suffice to say
that observation, eXperience and investigation,
taken together with the
local conditions under

tion it gives will largely
depend on the “buy.” Pur-
chasers of recreation sup—
; it should know exactly
“i.  materials, grade of
Wtctul'. and workman-
ship make up each recrea-
atmn -upr)ly item.

Product to Meet Specifi-

cations. 71‘s means there
should be r rer‘u'r-d a care-

20

Mr. Orsatti points out that the ideas which
he presents in this article are not ail-inclu-
sive, and he suggests that many readers of
Recreation have no doubt developed their
own "first aid" practices which he and other
recreation worlters wifl want to hear about.
"Only by exchanging ideas and keeping each
other posted upon varying techniques and
methods," says Mr. Orsatti, "can we success-
fuliy cope with a problem which is daily be-
coming more acute." So tetl us what you are
doing to meet the situation and we will malre
the information available to alt interested.

which the article will be
used, often determine some
of the specification details.

“Twelve inch out-seam;
seven ounce weight; two-
piece horsehide, elkhide or
cowhide leather cover;
lock-stitched with eight
cord linen waxed thread;
cork center only accept-
able; cork center to be

FIRST AID FOR RECREATION SUPPLIES 21

either solid one-piece or
laminated not to exeed
four pieces and measure
not more than two and
three-quarter inches di-
ameter. Center to be
wrapped not less than one-
half inch in thickness, with
heavy wool yarn, con-
structed and tightly wrap-
ped so distance of yarn
wrapping from center to
surface of ball is uniform.
Submit one whole and one-
half section as samples.”

Samples and Their Testing. In competitive bid-
ding it is usual to have from three to eight or more
bids with samples submitted by each bidder on one
item alone, such as volleyballs. A careful inspec—
tion should then be made of each sample, and the
one most nearly meeting the required specilica—
tions should be chosen for purchase.

Wherever possible, samples should be tested by
subjecting them to conditions approximating those
under which they will be used in the recreation
program. If they are actually tried in the field,
care should be taken that all samples of similar
items are used under identical conditions. The Los
Angeles Recreation Department avails itself of the
testing facilities of the Municipal Bureau of Stand-
ards. Frequently samples are torn, stretched,
punctured, broken, cut or otherwise treated to as-
certain their quality.

Finally, the samples of products chosen for pur-
chase ought to be retained until complete delivery
has been made so the two can be compared. It
sometimes occurs that when the supplies purchased
are delivered they do not measure up to the stand-
ard indicated by the sample.

Proper Use and Care of Supplies

Even the most expensive and best quality prod-
ucts will give mediocre service if misused or used
under conditions for which they were not de—
signed. After carefully buying recreation sup-
plies, the investment becomes a profitable one only
if the absolute maximum of service and satisfac—
tion is obtained. This can be realized by observing
a few general rules which apply to nearly all rec-
reation supplies. Among them are:

Issue equipment in a manner to insure its return.
Requiring a deposit of some article upon issuance
of equipment is a device sometimes used but not

Regarding the conservation of equipment, par-
ticularly of rubber balls. R. W. Robertson,
Superintendent of RecreationI Oakland. Cali-
fornia. writes: "We are constantly reminding
our recreation directors to take greater care
of the equipment and to see that the children
make use of it intelligently and appropriately
for these times. We are stressing modifica-
tions of recreation programs to make use of
other equipment or as little equipment as pos-
sible. We are asking greater cooperation from
all our people and are getting it because of
the emergency situation." Mr. Robertson adds:
"We are all in the same boat' if that is any
comfort. and I think that if we keep our heads
we can keep the boat floating for the duration."

one to be encouraged. On
small areas or where the
patronage is quite regular
and the director knows
every one, no special prob-
lem is presented. On large
recreation areas, heavily
attended, loss of equip-
ment by theft or careless-
ness may sometimes be-
come quite a problem. A
practicable method of
meeting this situation is
the device of indexing in
one card file the names of
all patrons using equipment, and upon another
card file every piece of recreation supply in use.
When a patron checks out a piece of equipment,
his card is taken from the name file and placed in
the equipment tile under the item checked out.
Upon return of the equipment, the name card is
replaced in the name index.

Proper use of recreation equipment adds greatly
to the total hours of service such equipment will
give. Balls, bases, bats, nets, game supplies and
certain miscellaneous items are roughly classes or
groups into which we may classify most recreation
supplies for purposes of discussion in this article.
Below are listed some suggestions which should
be helpful in prolonging the life of such supplies.

Balls

1. All inflated balls should be, at all times, kept
at the pr0per inflation pressure. This pressure is
indicated upon the surface of the ball by the manu-
facturer, and is not always"'the same for the same
kind of ball.

2. Check all supplies at the closing up time so
that nothing is left out overnight. Night moisture
plays havoc with practically all recreation supplies.

3. Leather equipment wears much better if kept
slightly oiled, so the leather is never dry. Passing
an oiled rag (neatsfoot oil is excellent) over the
inflated leather balls every day is quite satisfactory.

4. Croquet balls and mallets are not intended to
be used as though they were hockey sticks and
pucks.

5. Sport balls, basketballs, and volleyballs are
designed for bouncing, and will stand little kicking.

Bases
Fastening down all bases when in use prevents

wear and cuts down the tendency to throw them

. around, as sometimes occurs.

7’ FIRST AID FOR RECREATION SUPPLIES

ill-III

But:
I. Bat breakage is usually quite lngh and much

of it can be prevented by holding the bat properly
so that the side of the bat which has the trade-
mark imprinted will not come in contact with
the ball.

.2. Using a playground ball bat weighing from
28 to 3! ounces with a minimum handle diameter
of I 3 '16 to 1'3 inch-es has worked out very sat-
isfactorily for the older patrons.

Nd:
l. A good grade of basketball, volleyball, pad-

dle tennis, badminton and tennis net is the most
economical in the long run. Provision should be
made so these nets can be sent to a central repair
shop for reweaving when necessary.

2. Tennis nets with double centers, extra heavy
web type binding along the top edge and %”
diameter tension cable (instead of the ordinary
3'16" cable) will give many months of added
service.

Came Supflis:

I. Checkerboards made of inlaid linoleum
squares are most satisfactory. If this is not avail-
able. three-ply wood with a heavily stenciled
checker design and covered with Valspar varnish
makes a fine board.

2. Crokinole disks, checker men, dominoes,
friends, chessmen, jacks and jack balls are best
kept and issued in sturdy individual containers or
tin cans to prevent loss.

.llirrrllaneon:
t. Catchers' gloves should be kept well oiled.
2. Breakage of bamboo poles used for high jump

and vaulting can be reduced by using a few turns

of friction tape between joints.

3. Baseball catchers' masks are susceptible to
being battered out of shape by the continued re-
moval and throwing to the ground. It has been
found that the most heavily
constructed wire mask, or
purchase of a sturdy bar
type mask is best economy
in the long run.

Repair of Expendable
Recreation Equipment

Repairing is an impor- tor
tant part of recreation: sup-
ply "first aid." To illus-
trate: Under normal play-
ing conditions. on local
recreation areas. the play-

"Betore a ball of any description is issued
for use," writes J. J. Symel Superintendent of
Recreation, Hamilton, Canada, "it receives
a dressing of Army Dubbing. Staff members
are given a supply with which to lteep balls
coated. They are also furnished with twine
and needles to stitch brolten seams. espe-
ciaH in softba-lls. When a ball becomes unfit

Lague games or for use by older players
it is handed down to the juniors for practice
games. No new ball is issued until the old
one is beyond repair. We use old covers for
handcratt. Rubber {bladders and the inside
(string portion) of old sottbal‘ls are sent to
the Salvage Department of the Red Cross."

  
    
    
    
     
    
    
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  

ground ball in use begins to break down “Kerr‘-
proximately three weeks of play. By carefi'l' .
pairing. these balls are kept in play for two in
or longer.

Repairs on the Playground. Every rec .
director should be equipped with a tire I
outfit, some waxed linen thread (5110
thread) and a heavy curved mattress needh I

Rubber balls, bladders and even the fairly .
fabric constructed rubber-covered footw, _
ketballs and soccer balls, can often be rqiei *1;
application of a cold patch. Patching m-tli i .3
inexpensive and they justify their cost
times over.

Leather goods which have stitching and
cially the baseballs, playground balls, c
protectors and inflated leather balls, can readi
repaired by sewing. If the surface of the bah
out and it becomes necessary to apply a
job can best be done by a shoemaker.
results, repair sewing should be done inn
the stitching shows signs of breakage.

tllajor Repairs. Certain kinds of repi
special equipment and workmanship not Q: '
at the recreation center. Such equipment ,_
is sent to a central repair shop or is taken . -
by a traveling repair man.

This is true of gym mats which may need to b
sewed, rebuilt, recovered, or repainted; tennis his
which need to be repaired; crokinole boards; ato-
quet mallets which need the handles replaced. Re--
placing broken wooden handles with steel pipe 11. 5
proved most satisfactory. In the well-equipped
shop, broken bats on the playground are saleaged-
and croquet mallets made from them by turning G
the lathe. Often the shop can make satisfactory
ping-pong and paddle tennis paddles from ply-
wood.

No doubt many little “tricks of the trade" are
being successfully used by
recreation leaders to
lengthen the life of play
and athletic equipment.
The writer has listed some
of the more easily applied
practices which are not
contingent upon some cir-
cumstance peculiar to the
locality.

For example: the local
recreation department, after
much experimenting, has

{Continued on page 49)

l
J ‘l

.-

  

h

 

HERE HAS NEVER been a time in the history of
Tour country when the need for recreation of

all kinds has been so widely recognized as it is
today. It has not been long since recreation was
considered the privilege of only a favored few and
organized recreation for all was not thought of
either for peace or wartime. Our puritanical fore-
fathers discouraged worldly pleasures, but now
that there are no longer trails to blaze through the
wilderness; now that conditions of life are easier
and shorter working hours provide more leisure,
the picture is changed and organizations and
groups everywhere are recognizing leisure—time
activities as an essential element in the well-
rounded life of every individual.

During these war days there is a great challenge
to the National Recreation Association and other
groups interested in recreation, whether the pro-
gram emphasizes physical htness or the uplifting
of the soul. The importance of all types of leisure—
time activities cannot -be overemphasized.

‘ ' Folk Festivals Fill 21 Need_'

The folk festival is»one form of activity-Which
may well be encouraged for many reasons. Lead-

Folk Lore in Our Day

By

SARAH GERTRUDE KNOTT

National Director
National Folk Festival

"In spite of the urgent necessity
for building warships. airplanes.
and other implements of war. we
must not forget that an essential
element in success is the spirit of
our people. We must keep alive
our national traditions—our folk
songs. our music and dances which
reflect the spirit of democracy."

ers in the field of folk lore, recognizing the contri—
butions which are possible through concerted ef—
fort, have formulated plans which may be put into
effect by people throughout the country convinced
of the values in this field. These leaders believe
that now is the time to develop plans for making
more effective use of the folk traditions which
contribute so vitally to better understanding and
help meet the need for recreation now so uni-
versally recognized. In community folk festivals
they see an activity in which many can participate.
They feel that an exchange of folk songs, music,
and dances of old and new Americans might do
much to integrate the two groups. They believe
that such a program would cost little and could
be carried on by local leaders in practically every
community in the United States, since there are
few that do not have some type of folk songs,
music, and dances.

As a result of the suggested plan now available
through the National Folk Festival, a number of
new festivals are being planned and eXpanded
plans have been made for the National Folk

Festival.

Eight National Folk Festivals have been held
in the United States since 1934—in St. Louis,
Chattanooga, Dallas, Chicago, and'for the past
four years in W'ashington. 'The ninth annual Na- ’
tional Folk Festival will be held in Washington
from May 6th to 9th under the Sponsorship of the

23

24 FOLK LORE IN OUR DAY

\\'ashington Post Folk Festival Association, with
a New York presentation in Madison Square
Garden on May 11th under the sponsorship of
the New York Post Folk Festival Association.
It is hoped that this year groups from old and new
festivals will send representatives to help present
a more colorful, significant picture of the folk life
of our country. For while the National Folk Fes-
ival is an incentive to local folk festivals, it is the
local festival which reaches down to the roots of a
community and gives a true picture of its life.
During the past nine years many community or
state festivals have sprung up, some of them
through the incentive of the National Festival, and
the directors of these and other folk festivals form
a nucleus of leadership in the folk field which can
rend-er a much needed national service.

Cultural Relationships Essential

In the past few years we have come to recog-
nize the fact that international cultural relation-
ships are important in the deveIOpntent of inter-
American relations. Our government has officially
recognized the need for an international cultural
relations program. The Pan-American Union, the
Cultural Division of the State Department, and
the Rockefeller Committee are at work on plans
for a program of cultural as well as economic re-
lations with the Latin American countries. Cul-
tural exchanges are admittedly important in this
program. Deep-seated folk expressions offer one
of the more significant mediums through which to
arrive at better understanding, since through them
we see individual differences and similarities which
grew out of racial and national needs and experi-
ences. There is a universal strain running through—
out the whole body of folk traditions which shows
a fundamental kinship of all the human race.

If a cultural relations program is of value in
cementing friendships and the realization of com-
mon ideals internationally, it is reasonable to think
that a practical, educational activity program ap-
plied to our own country, which utilizes in demo-
cratic fashion the traditional
heritages of all our people,
might serve a great purpose
in the present and future de-
velopment of our country.

“(e face a future in which
it will be far more necessary
for the people of divergent
strains to understand each
other than ever before. Our

"Before we can appreciate the distinc-
tive contributions of other countries,
we must know our own basic cultures.
If we know the fundamental patterns in
the United States, we she" have a good
basis for an appreciation of the melor
cultures of the world, since ours is
made up of forms brought from the na-
tive lands of our many peoples. whether
they!» European or Latin American."

nation has suddenly become a neighborhood. We
must understand our neighbors at home as well as
abroad. The United States is now guardian of
many of the folk traditions or war-torn Europe.
They are priceless legacies reflecting the riclmess
of old ways of life in the Old World. Our cult“)
life and that of the world will be less rich ii are
lose them. The best way to preserve them for in
future is through use now. \Ve shall no doubt
emerge at length from the period through which
we are living with changed ideas and ideals, *h
many of the old traditions which have fundamental
values forgotten unless we make a conscious effort
now to hold them.

In wartime there is always. an upsurge of na-
tionalism such as we are experiencing today.
\Vhen there is danger to a nation its people arouse
themselves not only to protect boundary lines and
political and economic systems, but to preserve its
spirit. Old and new Americans today are fighting
for the liberty and the democratic principles which
drew them to the shores of the New \Vorld. Long
ago the traditions brought here by early colonists
were accepted as a part of the American tradition.
If we can now accept and claim as our own bah
old and new at a time when we are brought tb-
gether by the necessity for the common defense of
our country, we shall take a great step forward in
real Americanization.

Old Americans are not considered less Ameri-
can because their traditions are of European orig'm.
\Vhy should the new ones be? Time will sett-lc that.

All pe0ples must have roots somewhere. The
sooner the traditions brought from other countries
are recognized as a part of the cultural living of

all Americans the more speedy will be the in-
tegration.

Cherishing Folk Traditions

Dorothy Darlington of London tells an interest-
ing story of how exiled armies and governments
are Cherishing their folk traditions in Great Bri-
tain. The governments of Poland, Czechoslovakia,
the Netherlands, and Yugo-
slavia sought refuge in Great
Britain after the fall of their
countries during the war.
There they are carying on
. with great determination the
national folk songs, music,
and dances of their native
lands. Each army has its
choir, bands, and musicians

FOLK LORE IN OUR DAY 25

of all kinds. Even under the strains of war they
see that battle alone will not win the war—that
the spirit of all the people will be a strong deter-
mining factor. They realize that the songs, music,
and dances of their native lands are the strongest
ties they have in binding scattered people together.
They know that only by keeping the soul of their
countries alive can they hope to see their flags
waving again against the skies of their native lands.
Survival of cherished traditions will insure post-
war cultures of a basis upon which to rebuild.

The conquerors have recognized the strength of
the traditions of these peoples. In many conquered
nations they have forbidden the use of native
songs and dances, feeling the necessity of making
cultural as well as economic slaves of conquered
people.

Ours is one of the few nations where groups can
now come together with distinctive songs, music,
and dances regardless of race, creed, or nationality.
We are bound together by one language and one
flag. The national Folk Festival has encouraged
and promoted the friendly mingling of these groups
and is demonstrating the fact that it can still be
done in the United States.

Recording Folk Lore

Certain scientists, scholars, and poets have long
seen the value of folk traditions, but we are only
now recognizing the necessity or the possibility of
a general use of them for recreational purposes.
In the last hundred years there has gradually de-
veloped a broadening of interest in folk lore in
most countries. Though some of the European
countries, especially Scandinavia, in the early part
of the seventeenth century began collecting folk
materials and establishing museums for their pre-
servation, it was not until the middle of the nine-
teenth century that folk lore really attained the
status of a science recognized by scholars generally
in western Europe and America. It was only in
1846 that the term “traditions” or “popular an-
tiquities” became folk lore through the coinage of
the word by Thoms of England.

This new expression “folk lore” proved more
usable, more alive. No doubt it played a part in
opening the way for expanded interest in tradi-
tional forms. The revival of folk lore in most coun-
tries of the world would not have been likely if we
had continued to use the word “antiquities.”

It was not until the latter part of the last cen-
tury, through incentives given by the scientific
methods laid down by the Brothers Grimm of

Germany, that folklorists from England, Germany,
France, Scandinavia, America, and other countries
began to make studies, to analyze and classify
myths, legends, spirituals, music, and dances. The
chief concern of many of the folklorists contem-
porary with the Grimm Brothers was to trace the
history of the human race through the scientific
study of folk lore. There was no other way, except
through archeological findings, to open the closed
door of the past.

Other scholars in these countries for more spe-
cific literary purposes have analyzed, classified, and
collected folk material. Generally they have dealt
with materials from the purely literary standpoint,
with no thought of putting them back into circula-
tion or making them serve any other than a liter-
ary purpose. Since the turn of the century how-
ever, there has developed a steadily growing in-
terest in collecting folk expressions for their own
values. Muscians, dancers, and lovers of folk ex-
pressions are interested in making them available .
for use.

Just as scientific and literary interest in folk
lore spread in early days throughout western
Europe and America, at about the same period,
so this more recent humanized approach came to
the different countries at about the same time. It
is no wonder that throughout a large part of the
world today a revival of interest in the use of folk
songs,music, and dances has reached most countries.

England, the United States, and many of the
European countries owe a great debt to Cecil I.
Sharp of England who was among the first to see
the value of a revival of folk expressions. Though
he was collector, he had visions beyond that. He
saw the value of folk songs, music, and dances of
England for social purposes. He was a musician
as well as a literary man. His collections and ar-
rangements with music for songs and directions
for dances made in England and America about
thirty years ago, and his interest in teaching
started a revival in England which spread to other
Eur0pean countries and reached America.

The first collections of British ballads and folk
songs in the United States by Child, Kittredge,
Pound, and others included texts of traditional
ballads, collected and discussed from the literary
standpoint, with little or no music. More recent
collections have been made covering traditional ex-
pressions of the Indian, British, Spanish-Ameri-
can, German, French, and other Old World heri-
tages, also Negro, lumberjack, cowboy, miner,
sailor, and other New World creations which have

b

contributed to American folk life. Many of the
first collections here were not made with any idea
of continued use as folk expressions, but within
the last ten years there has been an increasing in-
terest in usable songs and dances, including music
for the songs. directions for the dance as well as
myths and tales for use. Music teachers, physical
education directors, rural sociologists, recreation
leaders, and others have begun to draw their ma-
terial from these sources. Even anthropologists
and scientific folklorists are beginning to Imman-
ize their approach. As a result of this more gen-
eral interest, national and international folk festi-
vals have been held in England, Sweden, Hungary,
Germany, Russia, Italy, Canada, Mexico and
Bolivia, as well as in the United States.

Value of Folk Traditions to National Life

One hundred years ago, or even twenty-Five
years ago, we did not see the value of folk tradi-
tions in an international cultural relations pro-
gram among the nations in this hemisphere. \Ve
did not see that they. had special value to national
life. \Ve know now that we must take them into
consideration because practically all nations of the
world are using them.

The totalitarian states for a number of years
have been developing contacts of a cultural nature
in the countries to the south, as well as our own
country. But they have not been content with the
development of better international relations. They
have made every effort to bind together their own
people for national strength and solidarity. They
have consciously worked toward pride in race and
national unity. The use of folk traditions in na-
tional recreation programs has played an im-
portant part.

Germany, Italy, and Russia for ten years or
more have used the simple folk songs, music and
dances in deve10ping “esprit de corps” and uniting
the people of their countries. The Finns and
Czechs oweunuch of their strength and fighting
spirit to traditions which gave them common ideals.

England's scientists saw the value of folk tradi-
tions a number of years ago. One of the early
scientific folklorists, Tylor, writing in 1870, said:
"She who rules over vast territories of infinite di-
versity . . . of all stages of culture, cannot possibly
govern without taking into account the motivating
powers that actuate them.” Hartland, a contem-
porary of T ylor, said: “What a waste of precious
human lives might have been avoided in our mani-
fold dealings . . . if we had been acquainted with

96 FOLK LORE IN OUR DAY

their methods of thought.” Since that time efforts
have been made by scholars and scientists in our
country as well as in others to understand the in-
dividual characteristics of various peoples which
are best expressed through folk traditions.

If the totalitarian states have found their folk
traditions of value in creating a spirit of unity, H
Czechoslovakia, Finland, and other countries in
time of peace as well as war have found in them
joy and spiritual strength, would it not be ii.
for the United States with its many groups of
diverse philosophies of life to consider well its
folk traditions?

Each group within our borders has its own
peculiar temperament, its own distinctive quality
and philosophy of life, and its inherent character-
istic expressions in folk songs, music, and dances,
legends and folk stories. The use of these tradi-
tions now would undoubtedly go far in makng
possible a richer cultural life in peacetime and in
creating a more united front in war endeavors.

From the vantage point of the twentieth cen-
tury we see many significant individual differences
in our people which we could not have seen
earlier. Time had to give us perspective. If tl':
white man in the early days had better understood
the Indian—but he could not until he glimpsed
him in his age-old ceremonials in which his soul
speaks. If we had known the burdened soul of the-
Negro in bondage—but we could not until we
heard his soul cry through the spirituals which
grew out of that burden. If we had become better
acquainted with our Spanish-Americans whose
traditions have roots four hundred years old in
what is now United States soil—but it took a
world crisis to attract attention to them.

At last we are beginning to understand along
with older nations that folk traditions are not not
relics of an outlived past but are vital today. The
National Folk Festival and community fol: f'esti-
vals planned throughout the country for 19;;
have a real contribution to make to the Peer-m
program of the United States.

“We are talking much about the conservation
of our forests, wildlife, and land. Land can be
restored, and the forests brought back, but once
life has gone out of a people’s stories, songs and
dances, the intimate reflections of their deepest
sentiments and feelings, they cannot be restored
to their original forms. Now, while traditions en-

dure, is our opportunity.”—Scrrah Gertrude K116"
in Educational Dance.

Fishing—A Sport for All

ISHING SHOULD have a!
F place in every camp.
There are thousands of
places comfortably and ideally
located on lakes, streams, rivers
and oceans, conducting a water-
front program which is popular
for both young and old. It is
surprising, however, how few
camps have used their immedi-
ate waters for angling as a part
of their leisure—time activity.
“A fishing counselor in every
camp” should be the slogan of
the director and educator, as it has been proved
that angling supplies those characteristics which
aid in the development of the whole boy and girl.
The young fisherman learns patience, tolerance,
self control, appreciation of nature and fair play
after many eventful experiences. The great out-
doors offers a challenge to the angler. There seems
to be a new incentive and desire to live and a new
interest in nature’s wonders. A person soon real—
izes how insignificant he is
when faced with the open sky
and large bodies of water.
Here is an activity that can

With special reference to the
importance of fishing at camp

By FRANCOIS D’ELISCU

Dr. D'Eliscu. who very evidently
ranks fishing high in his list of
sportsI is connected with the De-
partment of Health and Physical
Education and Recreation at both

Teachers College. Columbia Uni-
versity' and New York University.

Members of the Women's Department of
Physical Education at New York Univer-
sity receive instruction in the use of

reels at Lake Sebago. SloatsburgI N. Y.

be indulged in by all ages and

sexes and carried on through

life as a valuable leisure—time

sport. Angling furnishes men—
tal relaxation and permits one
to think sanely. It is an excel-
lent self-disciplinarian.

Camps can carry on this in-
expensive sport by teaching
casting, whether it be bait, fly
or surf casting, as it will supply
interest and competition, and
will answer the demands of par— ’
ents and educators to have the
camps encourage more individual development of
motor skills and complete achievement tests that
are practical.

Every camp director should employ a fishing
counselor. He should be enthusiastic in his work
and patient with his students and his teachings.
He should understand angling, the use and care
of equipment, and be well versed in his subject, so
that he can successfully carry out his program in
the waters where his camp is
located. For the angler who
has an elementary knowledge
of ichthytaxidermy, he will be

 

27

28 FISHING—A SPORT FOR ALL

more valuable to his camp in
that he can teach angling and
assist the boys and girls to
mount their catch for the camp
museum or their own study at
home. We need more Izaak
Waltons among our youth of
today. Teach them conserva-
tion while they are young, and
they will become more appreciative of wild life,
and will help keep our waters properly stocked
and protected from pollution and overconnnercial
fishing. Good anglers obey the laws as laid down
by their respective commissions. This cooperative.
democratic attitude becomes a carry-over into late
life.

Directors of camps must realize that these
youngsters who are being exposed to angling will
become enthusiastic followers of the great sport
that is so stimulating and popular. It is a sport
that is enjoyable and recreative, and it should
prove a most acceptable activity to parents and to
campers themselves. Encourage fishing and you
will find a rejuvenated child who is more consid-
erate, fair, helpful, cooperative, and a good com-
panion in a boat, on shore and at home.

The following material has been arranged in
outline form to aid camp directors and counselors
interested in some pertinent information relative
to angling.

hundred and

Equipment
Bait Casting. Bait casting is thrilling and excit-
ing and provides a lot of action. Every boy and
girl will find a great deal of pleasure fishing in
every little nook and cove, large and small pocket,
on grassy shore, around snags, rushes, stumps,
weeds, lily pads, and even around your own boat

dock. Many a large fish has been caught right
of? the dock.

A. Secure a Good Rod

1. A full action rod with a stiff butt.

2. Straight taper rods make a slow cast certain,
which in turn, allows a follow-through motion.

3. Slow action rods will make the real start slowly
and assure better casting, and will also eliminate
unnecessary backlash.

4. For juniors in camps, a 5’ 3” or 5’ 6” split
bamboo or tubular steel pole should be very
effective.

5. Light rod and light lure are much better than
heavy rod and heavy lure.

"Anglers fishing in the United States
are estimated to spend almost eight
seventy-seven million
dollars annually. The angler's dollar
is spent not only for fishing licenses
but on transportation, food. lodging,
bait. boats, clothing and other inci-
dentals."—From Report, I939. Bulle-
tin No. 3. U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

In teaching casting, the pro-
per stroke, timing, and thumb
control should be emphasised.
The boy should be taught to
keep his eyes on the targt.

Overhead casting sham-5
mastered first for begii ;

sideswipes should be dis-enr-

aged, as they are dain
when not properly controlled.

B. Secure a Good Reel

1. Shakespeare’s reels are probably the best type
of reel for boys in camp and are inexpensin.
They are recommended because they ham an
anti-backlash working mechanism.

to

. Light aluminum spools are preferable to any
other type.

3. Use an arbor 1/16” in diameter around theI
aluminum spool before winding line.

4. A clean reel insures against backlashes.

5. Backlashes are caused by the reel running fast-er
than the plug or weight is traveling.

6. Jerky casts, twisted casting or trolling li-ne at
other causes of backlashes and at times abo
cause breakage of the line.

C. Secure a Good Line

I. Only a silk line of fine quality should be bought
for bait casting It should be soft, smooth, non-
breaking silk. This assures easy running frcm
the reel; it is easily spooled, wears longer and
makes for higher casting efficiency.

. For bass fishing, a 10 or 12 pound test line is
needed, 50 yards in length. If this does not fill
the Spool you should use a cork arbor fitted
to the spool.

3. The line should be hard-braided and water-
proof with the color left entirely to the indi-
vidual, pepper and salt, and black  pIIEf-
_erable.

4. Waterproof line is the best as it will stand more
abuse and with proper care will last longer.
Soft-braided line makes casting much easier but
will catch more water.

5. In considering line, it is necessary to know that
line kinks and twists are caused by revolving
lures that do not spin properly in the swivel.

6. If the line is to be kept in good condition, oil

should be applied to all the spools, swivel and
spinners that revolve.

7. Be careful of the lure that is caught in weeds
or lily pads as it will cause the line to twist.

l0

FISHING—A SPORT FOR ALL 29

8. Do not take any chances by not untwisting
the line or replacing the line if it is too far
gone.

9. Dry the line each evening or following your
fishing trip. Never allow .it to remain wet on
the reel over night.

10. Reverse the line as often as possible as you
will then have the line used at both ends.

II. \R’hen it becomes weak, replace the entire
spooL

12. Discard a weak line and never use one with
knots as it will not only cause backlash but
will interfere with proper casting.

13. Do not buy cheap line—you may lose your
only and largest fish. Buy the best high-grade
line and then take good care of it. Boys and
girls in camp should be taught this at their
first lesson as it is necessary to take care of
the line, so that it will last an entire season,
and assure safe fishing.

Additional Equipment

In addition to rods, reels and lines, the fishing
counselor should secure a variety of:

I. Hooks, weights, Konkakee fish stringers about
4’ long and fish nets, which can be made, in-
cidentally, from old tennis and badminton
rackets 0r hoops, with the crafts department
teaching the camper how to make the net.

2. Pocket size tackle boxes—size 7” x4%”x 73”,
weight % lb.—should be a part of the equip-
ment, and a cigar box will answer the purpose
very_definitely for the first year.

Artificial Plugs or Lures
I. Plugs are extremely popular and can be pur—
chased in a wide range of sizes, colors and shapes.
Artificial bait casting is most successful, but
campers must first be taught how to cast before
being permitted to handle a plug with hooks.

2. For bass fishing the sur-
face and semi-surface
plugs are the ones to
select. The experienced
angler may select one
resembling a shiner,
minnow, baby pike, frog,
plunker, or any other
favorite plug.

3. The V3 ounce plug or
the small half ounce

plug is very popular.

"But. no matter how the real pleasure of
tishing is brought home to him. there is one
thought which sould be implanted in his
mind early in his tishing career. and that is
that the actual talting of any particular tish
is of no great importance. How the tish was
taken: under what conditions and by what
method—these things. it carefully noted. are
the stones with which a solid foundation of
angling knowledge is constructed."-—John

Alden Knight in The Modern Angler,
Charles Scribner's Sons. New Yorlt. I936.

4. The question of color is arbitrary. Every angler

selects his own color and swears by it, whether
it be red, white, black and white, frog finish,
spotted, striped, or mouse color.

. Beginners should be taught to use a surface
plug first, as early bass are still in the shallows
and it will make possible the retrieving lesson,
which is important in casting. One should re-
trieve faster in the early season and employ
zig—zag motion by either the action of the plug
itself or with a jerking movement of the rod.

6. Allow small weighted plugs to sink near deep
water and then retrieve. It annoys the fellow
below and he may bite it—as usual without
thinking first!

. Large mouth bass are found around weeds, lily

pads and sunken logs. They bite fast and fight
to the last.

Wet Flies

I. Brown hackle and the gray hackle —— neither
fiy has a wing and consists of a body of her] or
dubbin with hackle wound around the head.

2. Nymphs are useful in attracting fickle trout.

3. Royal Coachman—No. 8 and 10. If water is
clear and low, use No. 12.

4. Royal Coachman, size No. 14 and I6, is an ex-
cellent dry fiy. For early season fishing for
trout and landlocked salmon, streamers and
bucktails are recommended. The best streamer
sizes are eights, sixes and fours. The Hellcat,
Pink Pup, Black Dog, Black Ghost, Gray Ghost,
Light Tiger, Dark Tiger, are very popular. Choose
your own after experience. Weather has a great
deal to do with the selection and use of flies in
fishing. They must be studied. Full streams
demand large fiies ; low streams small fiies.

Drop Line Fishing ,

Any line, plus the size of hook that is necessary
for the fish that live in the waters in your camp,
can be. purchased at a very nominal cost. '

How to Hook Live Bait

I . Crawfish—in tail.

U1

\1

2. Frogs—through both lips
or use frog harness.

3. Small minnows—through
both lips.

4. Salamanders — through
both lips.

5. Hellgrarnites — through
the collar near the head.

6. Grubs—wire on hook.

30 FISHING—.4 SPORT FOR ALL

Safety
Saftey procedures are very necessary for both
the fishing counselor and the anglers. The follow-
ing suggestions are important for safety in fishing:

I. Use a safe boat. and never overload it.

2. Alwavs carry extra motor fuel. if you are
using an outlxnrd motor.

3. Be sure the boat has a bailer or tin can in
case of rain or a leak.

4. Never leave in a boat without the necessary
tools. especially if an outboard motor' is used.

5. Always tell some person where you are going

—where you will be, and when you are ex—
pected back.

6. 3e sure and carry a tiashlight and extra cells.

2!. Do not handle hot dishes or hot pots with
hands that are not protected.

22. Do not let your grease or fat become too hot——
it will burn and cause a flame. Play safe with
heat and fire.

23. Know the poison ivy leaf—play safe!

24. Do not drink water from questionable or pols-
sibly polluted streams.

25. Do not forget your can Opener; don’t use im-
provised tools. If may cause serious cuts.

26. Blankets are bulky and inconvenient in the
beginning but are mighty comfortable at night.
A sweater is appreciated.

27. Never wade a stream unless you know where
the holes are located.

\I

A modern Kindle-Light red flare should be 2

part of the equipment
in case you are lost.

. Inspect your tent and

see whether it is wa-
terproof.

00

"The quality of a man's sportsmanship is de-
termined by his attitude toward the difficul-
ties he meets in following a sport in which
overcoming obstacles constitutes a game. The
fisherman who removes or sidesteps the obsta-

S. Inflate the air mattress
{or holes if any. cles cheats himself of the real enjoyment of
. i ‘ fishing. A man gets a greater thrill out of
9. .\ever carry loose

IO.

hooks in the boat. Use
pocket-size tackle

boxes.

Never cast with some-
one behind you.
Always carry extra

an attempt to hook his own sailfish—even
though he misses—than when the boatman
hands him the rod after the fish is hooked.
Take the foul lines and hazards out of any game
and the game will die. In the same manner.
the man who does not accept the challenges
offered in fishing misses most of what the sport
can give."——Major Harlan in Salt Water

29.

. Never carry your rod and hooks through

bushes. They may catch
the bush or you. Re-
place hooks in a box
for safety.

Never leave a fire
burning. Be careful
with matches. Watch
the wind—do not build
too large a fire. It must
be continually under
control.

_ 0
30. In surf casting be sure

you have plenty of
room around you.

line.

12. Never leave on a fish-
ing trip without a small first-aid kit containing
iodine, sterile gauze, adhesive tape, tourniquet,
sharp knife, side-cutting pliers, and all other
equipment that is found in a first aid kit.

I 3. Always push a hook through, if caught. Then
cut it into two pieces and pull out.

14. If using a boat, use clove-hitch for anchorage
to the dock. Be sure your lines are strong.

15. Keep your boat clean. Wash it off at night,
and, if possible, dry it.

16. Know your knots if you want to be safe. A boat-
man should always be sure of his anchor line.

17. Lines should be carefully coiled and should be
read for instant use.

[8. Always hang your rods on a rack. Never
allow them to lie on the grass or on floor.

19. Avoid placing hooks, pans or poles in spots
where it is dangerous.

20. Keep the rod in proper angle—do not hook
yourself.

Tackle, Funk and Wagnalls Co., New York.

3I. Be sure and cut about

three feet from the end
of your line each night after drying. It will
help you catch the big one.

32. Remember you are conserving fish—use good

judgment in not keeping the small ones. Let
them grow to big ones!

33. Obey the laws!

Hints

1. Fishing rod clip. Place on side of the boat

two clips which will hold the pole in place and
off the floor.

30

. Hook on tackle box. See that a round metal
key ring is attached to the handle on your
tackle box, so that a cord can be tied from the
ring to the boat. If an accident occurs, you
won’t lose your tackle box and equipment.

3. Line drier. Secure two hooked umbrella
(Continued on page 46)

in Defense of Recreation

New Jersey, complete-

ly routed a sudden at-
tempt to reduce the 1942
appropriation for their Rec-
reation Commission from
$23,250 to $15,000. The
Town Council. had notified
the Commission of the date
of a hearing on its budget,
but before the time came,
yielded by a 4 to 3 vote after
the first reading of the town budget to the demands
of persons from local groups to cut $8,250 from
the appropriation. Since the rules of the town
provide that after a budget is adopted on first
reading it may be reduced or increased by only
ten per cent, it appeared that the best appropriation
the Commission could now hope for was $16,500
on the final passage.

Informed of what had happened, Superintendent
of Recreation C. A. Emnions and his staff took
their problem to the Commission and influential
citizens. Then the tide of public opinion began to
rise. The councilmen who voted to curtail the
budget were kept busy answering telephone calls
from militant citizens friendly to recreation. The
Recreation Commission held a special Sunday ses-
sion and laid plans for the next and final hearing
on the budget. Persons who could not attend that
hearing were asked to send letters and telegrams
to the mayor protesting the cut. He received a
hundred such communications. Ten representa-
tive citizens, including the first president of the
Recreation Commission and the president of the
Chamber of Commerce, agreed to address the Coun-
cil in brief talks. A representative of the National
Recreation Association agreed to cite what other
New Jersey communities were doing in recreation.

Before the hour of the hearing it was unofficially
learned that two of the “misguided” councilmen
had repented. It remained for the hearing to make
this ,recantation unanimous for the Council cham-
ber was well filled with 200 citizens, the majority
of them enthusiastic for recreation. One after an-
other leading business men, a clergyman, repre-
sentatives of Parent-Teacher Associations, musical
leaders, and participants in the program arose and
gave eloquent testimony to the importance of rec-

CITIZENS of Bloomfield,

‘A’rfempf's to make drastic and unreasonable
cuts in recreation programs and budgets
have already been reported this year. If is
possible other such affemp’rs will follow.
Mounl'ing federal taxes have led some
groups to turn on the social services of
local government as ‘l'he easiest targets of
fax reduction campaigns. How two such af-
facks were defeated is briefly reviewed in
this article for the benefit of recreation
agencies which may soon be confronl'ed with
a similar emergency in their own community.

reation now. It was con-
vincing to hear the president
of the Chamber of Commerce
cite his record of effort at tax
reduction but his opposition
to curtailing recreation.
Bloomfield’s wide reputation
for its music organizations
was cited, among other ac—
complishments of the Rec-
reation Department. The
opposition, though repre-
sented at the hearing, was not very vocal. Super-
intendent Emmons sat at his ease throughout the
session, not speaking, as the citizens of Bloomfield
gave ringing endorsement to the recreation
program.

The conclusion was foregone. The Council

voted unanimously to restore every penny of the
$23,250 budget.

In Montclair

In Montclair, a neighboring town, the problem
took a different form but the solution was similar
to that in Bloomfield. Here the Town Commis-
sion, pressed fanatically by persons demanding tax
reduction at any cost, sent a questionnaire to all
persons paying water bills inviting their votes on
the reduction of four town services, including li-
brary service and the complete elimination of rec-
reation. This referendum implied no opposition to
recreation on the part of the Commission. But the
recreation program had been functioning on a
year-round basis only four 11101215113. Its effective-
ness was unknown to a vast majority of the people
of a town unusually dependent hitherto on private
resources for recreation. Although the question—
naire explained in brief the service given by the
Recreation Department and the numbers reached,
it could not be expected, under the circumstances,
that a large number of citizens whose families were
not yet directly served by the program would vote
for the retention of recreation.

On the initiative of one or two individuals a
citizens’ organization was formed to protect the
recreation program. It was made up from twenty
civic agencies which endorsed the new department
when it was initiated early in 1941. The group
acted independently but in complete cooperation

31

32 IN DEFENSE 0F RECREATION

with the ofiicial recreation committee whose func-
tions are advisory. .\leeting as quickly as possible
under the chairmanship of a well-known New
York and Montclair lawyer, the citizens’ group
delegated to its members such duties as (a) writ-
ing letters to the local weekly paper favoring the
recreation program, (b) urging their friends and
neighbors to vote to retain the recreation appro-
priation, and (r) asking the clergy to speak in the
pulpits in favor of recreation. Parent-Teacher As-
sociation representatives present agreed to circu-
larize their members. Talks were arranged for sev-
eral regular meetings of civic and Parent-Teacher
organizations scheduled for the following week.

The Montclair Association, a powerful citizen
organization interested in good government and
represented on the citizens’ committee, mailed a
special bulletin to its mailing list of 2,000 persons
suagesting favorable action on recreation, library,
and other items. The League of \Vomen Voters,
the Colored Branch of the Y.\V.C.A., and other
organizations voted endorsements of the recrea-
tion appropriation and sent them to the Commis-
sioners. A number of clergymen spoke on the
issue, one making a special address praising both
the recreation program and its director. One
Parent-Teacher Association circularized its mem-
bership asking for a vote on recreation and two
other items on the town questionnaire. Of 200
replies, 193 favored the recreation apprOpriation.
These returns were filed with the mayor.

The Budget Research Committee, a voluntary
citizens' organization interested in economical gov-
ernment, made a careful study of the recreation
program and recommended to the Commissioners
that no cut be made in it. This in itself was an
important victory for recreation. One of the con-
siderations infiuencing the action by the Budget
Committee was the receipt of signed statements
from the Y.M.C.A., Y.VV.

C.A., Adult Education Coun-

to its local members asking them to work to save
the program. An advertisement covering three-
fifths of a page was inserted in the local paper.
This filled an important need for it informed the
readers of the paper just what the recreation peo—
gram included and what it would mean to disco.-
tinue it. Many strong letters favorable to recrea-
tion were printed in two successive issues of the
paper and a news story was run telling of the com-
mittees’ activities. A committee member minim.-
graphed 500 postal cards for use by taxpayers who
did not get the town questionnaire. The-5e per-
sons included renters and others not paying town
water bills direct. They were distributed through
various organizations in the community.

At a second meeting of a portion of the com-
mittee, plans were laid for the town budget hear-
ing. A list of persons effective as speakers and
representing a good balance of interests was dis-
cussed. Omitted were persons who were clue-yr
vocal in favor of good services by the town but
costing money. Committee members accepted the
responsibility for approaching possible speakers.
The order of appearance for three or four of the
speakers was agreed on. Included in the list of
speakers were a clergyman, a doctor, the Town
Recorder, head of the Parent-Teacher Association,
the chairman and one other member of the Rec-
reation Advisory Committee, a member of the
School Board, and one or two participants in the
program. The League of Women Voters and sev-
eral committee members went to work again on
the telephone to make sure that a large group of
citizens would be present at the hearing.

On the other hand, the leader of the group seek-
ing drastic reduction of taxes wrote to 150 citizens
urging them to appear at the hearing.

The hall was packed on the night of the hearing.
Applause showed that three-fourths of the persons

present were strong for the
recreation appr0priation.

cil, and three other leisure
agencies stating that the
Recreation Department was
not duplicating their work.
These statements were ob-
tained personally by the
Superintendent of Recrea-
tion.

The National Recreation
Association lent the services
of a staff member for a few
days and sent strong letters

"No recreational program can be successful
from any service or financial point of view
if it represents only the accomplishments of
the paid personnel of an agency. The
program must take root in the lives of the
peeple: it must become, in a very real way,
their program. When this is true, the peo-
ple themselves will rail to its su port if
it is endangered. Furt ermore, tey will
enlist the interest of others in the program
from day to day, and will be a dynamic
force in extending its influence and ser-
vice."—From A Study of the Park and
Recreation Problem in the United States.

The commissioner m-os't re-
sponsible for issuing the
questionnaire announced
that the returns constitute a
line endorsement of the rec-
reation program, taking into
account that it was so new.
Two of the other commis-
sioners present, including
the mayor, also spoke
favorably about the recrea-

(Contin—urd on page 44)

Finger Puppets and How to Use Them

Have you thought of the
manyentertainment values
of finger puppets in the
present emergency? Here
are a few suggestions on
using them to advantage

INGER PUPPETS have great
 practical value for informal,

i m p r o m pt u entertainments .
Many of them slip conveniently
into the purse or pocket; they re—
quire no elaborate stage and can
be operated easily by the inexperi-
enced. Their uniqueness attracts
and holds the interest of any
group of children or adults.

For all these reasons finger
puppets may be used successfully
in many situations occurring during the war emer-
gency. They may, for example, be used in offices
and schools during blackouts or air raid drills. A
desk may serve as a stage, with the desk blotter
held up as a back drop. A wooden desk or chair
seat provides a good sounding board for a tap danc-
ing finger puppet. An accompaniment may be pro-
vided by- combs covered with onion skin paper,
usually available in offices. Flashlights will serve
as a “spot.”

Keeping the young convalescent happy to speed
his recovery is often a difficult matter. In the
home or in the hOSpitaI, a pair of finger puppets
with which the child can play while in bed or get—
ting about in a wheel chair will help solve this prob-

lem. Select amusing characters such as clowns or

a boy and a girl dressed in unusual costumes. The
child can use the counterpane over his knees as a
stage.

In the home, finger puppets provide entertain—
ment for the entire family. The necessary equip-
ment may be stored in a small space and provides
no problem. Make a stage from a small carton by
cutting off the top and putting an opening in one
side to represent the proscenium arch. Paint or
line the inside of the box with black. The opening

 

A suitcase may very easily be converted
into a handy traveling puppet theater

on the side through which a flashlight will shine
gives the proper lighting. A bridge lamp can be

substituted but it must be arranged in such a way

that the light will fall on the puppets and not on
the back drop. Slip a black stocking or cloth over
your hands with holes for the first two fingers.
Put your fingers into the puppets; the hand will
be invisible against the black back drop. Put the
stage on the table and turn out the lights in the
room. If a carton is not available, an arm chair
draped in black will answer the purpose. Try a
beautiful ballerina, coordinating her movements
with a piano accompaniment.

When taking groups on hikes be prepared for
the rest period by slipping a finger puppet into
your pocket or knapsack. He can tell wonderful
nature stories or do a jig on the bottom of your
frying pan!

Finger puppets can be used to add new interest
to storytelling periods. If evacuation should be
necessary, the children who are being tranSported
to their new homes in the country may be amused

( C ontirmed on page 49)
33

What They Say About Recreation

H CIENCR TAKES the world apart, phi1050phy
puts it together again, religion gives it
meaning. At this hour we are called upon

to devote all our science. all our philosophy, all

our religion. to the preservation of the only way of
life of which we can conceive that gives value and
dignity to man.”—Groz:e Patterson in Think,

November, 1941.

"Labor and leisure are the warp and woof of
human experience. It takes the two together to
weave a durable fabric in which both strength and
beauty can withstand the wear and tear of every
day."—Hon. Paul V. rlIantt.

“The most precious product of our power pro-
duction age is leisure. Leisure is the essence of life
itseli.”—Consmncrs Cooperative.

“It is important to sound municipal management
to realize that playgrounds are as useful in keep-
ing down crime as policemen, and that suitable
adult recreation will do more to preserve loyalty
to American ideals than a myriad of Spies and
agents."—Thomas H. Reed in Municipal M anage-

mrnt.

“America is not anything if it consists of each
of us. It is something only if it consists of all of
us; and it can consist of all of us only as our
spirits are banded together in a common enter-
prise. That common enterprise is the enterprise
of libery and justice and right.”-—Woodrow
H’ilson.

“Nature study brings to our hard pressed teach-
ers and pupils moments when tension is relaxed.
It provides Opportunity for self-expression. It
diverts attention from the immediately present and
practical to the everlasting.”—From Nature Gar-
den Guide, School Garden Association, New York
(itv.

“A civilized city must accord a prOper place to
science and to learning, to recreation, to play-
grounds, to music and to the fine arts, in addition
to its normal housekeeping duties. It is by these
achievements that our standard of development is
measured, and justly so."—H. E. V orga, Director
of Parks and Public Property, Cleveland, Ohio.

34

“Today love of our country and pride in all that
it stands for are springing with renewed force
from the roots of our people. The privileges which
we enjoy make us think seriously of our obliga-
tions to protect all that we cherish.”—Thoms I.
lVatson.

“The most important step in preserving the
democratic system is to keep that ‘moral vitamin’
called social responsibility.”—Dorothy Coffide

Fisher.

“The field of recreation offers unlimited possi-
bility for creative genius, knowledge, skill, and
leadership in making play into a great art. A
pe0ple is not civilized until it is creative, skillful,
and versatile in its play.”-—Arthnr E. Morgan in

The Connnnnity.

“Turn your face to the future and you will hear
America singing. America has a proud heroic past,
a past to carry in our hearts and let mingle with
the dream of what is to be.”—From the National

Education Association J onrnal.

“Laughter and play facilitate friendliness and
comradeship. They flaunt in the face of the world
one’s refusal to be scared; they transform unbear-
able pathos into a sort of divine comedy; they di-
vert attention from exclusive concern with the
perils at hand; they confer a priceless sense of
momentary detachment.”—From Education and
the Morale of a Free People. Educational Policies

Commission.

Of the “Nine Freedoms” proposed in a Na-
tional Resources Planning Board report, the final
is the right to “rest, recreation, and adventure.”

“The probabilities are that the rubber in our
athletic supplies can be stretched a good deal by
standardizing styles and finding substitutes. \Vhat
happens after we have squeezed the last ounce of
bounce out of every ball in anybody’s guess.”—
Mark A. ilchloskey in Survey Graphic.

“The aggregate happiness of society, which is
best promoted for the practice of a virtuous policy,
is, or ought to be, the end of government.”—

George Washington.

“I

Gardening for Pleasure

By ELLEN EDDY SHAW

a serious war year, and yet per-

haps it is the best title of all, to
think that amidst all sorts of war
troubles boys and girls may go on .
with a useful, pleasant, happy occu—
pation. We are more than ever
dependent upon our gardens both
for comfort and cheer, and as our
government and other authorities say, “for vita—
mins and vitality.”

\Vhat is the pleasure we derive from garden-
ing? Gardening is a piece of work that is hard in
itself and requires constant effort, and yet at the
same time gives perfectly splendid enjoyment. It
it a fine thing for boys and girls to be occupied
at something that is work, natural and normal
work, not made-up tasks to keep their minds busy.
It is splendid to do something that in itself
demands proper concentration and proper carry-
ing out of the laws of nature. No boy or girl can
side-step this. If you plan your garden badly, it
comes up badly. Fail to cultivate it, and it does
not grow pr0perly. Fail to thin, and you have
dwarfed and also leggy plants. Fail to pick your
crop and it becomes useless. So there we are.

So why not have a garden this summer frankly
because you wish to? Just because you like to do
a piece of strenuous work; just because you like
to experiment and find out what are the best
tomatoes that could be grown in your backyard, or
whether it is possible to have a flower garden with
only white flowers? These are real problems in
themselves. Make out your own little garden book
and check on yourself as you go along.

How do you know when it is time to start your
garden? This is the rule. Take a handful of soil
and close your hand over it. Does it crumple all
apart when you open your fist? Then indeed it is
time to start your garden. Or
does it remain firmly together?

THIS MAY SEEM a strange title in

I

   

,3 r...
'4 s"

Print by Gedge Harmon

vegetables like radishes, beets, carrots; then the
date in early Maywhen you start your flower gar-
den, and the date in mid-May when you put out
your tomato plants, eggplants, and peppers. You
might also put down in your book this little motto:
“He who makes a garden also serves his coun-
try.” Then sign your name. You can take any
blank book for this.

Perhaps you would like to know the vegetables
that give you plenty of vitamins. Some of these
are lettuce, spinach, string beans, carrots, and
beets. Then would you not like to say that your
flowers are for pleasure—isn’t that what you plan
a flower garden for? That is why I like one. You
cannot eat your flowers, or at least .there are very
few which should be eaten.

Remember there are certain rules to be followed
in starting a garden. You must have the soil fine
and stones out of the way. You must measure
your rows accurately and carefully. You should
put down the things you must not do and the
things .you must do. “I must pick my flowers
carefully with long stems. When I pick tomatoes,
I must not pull the plants apart. I must not water
my garden when the sun is shining upon it. I
must not leave a puddle of water standing on the
soil. I must be very careful that I do not waste
a single seed, and I must plant exactly as the

directions say.” And if you
wish a nice little plan for your

Then you must wait. Put this
down in your garden book!
First, the date you start your
garden operations; then the
dates you plant your small

Miss ShawI who is Curator of Elemen-
tary Instruction. Brooklyn Botanic
GardenI served as guest editor of
the March I938 issue of Recreation,
a special number which was entirely
devoted to the subject of gardens.

garden, let us know, and we

will help you work one out.
Perhaps it would be well for

you to put this in your note-

(Continucd on page 47)

36

 

 

 

Reprizjev‘ '

 

By ELLSWORTH JAEGER

I. Is +he skunk a member of fhe weasel

family. caf family. or rodenf family?

 

2. What animal makes mud pies?

3. Are fhere animals found in fhe Unired
Sfafes fhaf can exisf wifhoui drinking?

4. Whaf bird is a veniriloquisf?
5. Can mice climb frees?

b. Is lhere an American repfile fhaf
shoofs blood from ifs eyes?

7. Whaf bird makes a Chrisfmas stock-
ing nesf?

8. Do snakes have scenf?

9. Do anfs make scenf frails?

l0. Are owl-eggs round or egg-shaped7.
(If you need *0. see page 47!)

 

morn-v «I Hobbin, Ihe magazine of the Buffalo Museum of Science. February 1942

 

it’s-Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap’n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

R. HUGH POTTER BAKER, President of
Massachusetts State College, started the
Outdoor Recreation Conference nine years agg.
He emphasized that the colonists came to this
country with the conservation of natural resources
very much in mind, as expressed in their laws.
The overabundance they found soon became a
burden and they no longer believed in the need of
saving. The two land grant colleges in the state
brought back the idea of the importance of land
and conservation. After having been in forestry
over forty years, Dr. Baker assured the audience
that although we are just beginning conservation,
there is no reason to be discouraged.

Evelyn Bergstrom, educational staff of Massa-
chusetts Audubon Society: Fourteen hundred boys
and girls are now being served in twenty-two
towns by forty-three contact periods every two
weeks. Seventy-five thousand free leaflets, such
as Feeding Birds in I’Vinter, are sent out annually.
Camp Devens has a bird club. The USO and
Coast Guard have asked for bird houses and feed—
ing shelves.

Rachel Bruce, State Teachers College, Fitch—

burgh: The State Committee on Conservation
Education is setting up a course of study which
will be put into operation at certain centers from
which, it is hoped, the program will spread by
contagion. Instead of twenty minute periods there
will be big blocks of time. Some fundamental ex—
periences will be organizing bird clubs, changing
an ugly spot to a place of beauty, building a. plane-
tarium, or making a diorama of the world before
man. »
Benton P..Cmnmings, Hampshire County Club
Agent: All projects of the 4-H program have
many phases of conservation.
Homemade camping equip—
ment, feeding livestock, can-
ning, and raising chicks are
examples. Professor Need-
ham’s Natural History of the
farm does not say identify
twenty birds, but let’s see
what we can find down the
fence row or in the swale.

"So many timely and important things
were brought out at the Nature Section
ofthe Ninth Conference on Outdoor Rec-
reation at Massachusetts State College.
March l2-l5l I942. that the highlights
should be passed on for the benetit of
the readers of this column. Many of
these nature-grams will serve as guide
posts for the days immediately ahead."

Fred Dow, program director at Camp \Ning,
Duxbury, Massachusetts: Located two miles from
John Alden’s original home, this pioneer village
has a stockade, drawbridges, and watch towers.
One dollar enables a Boston boy to Spend a week
end in camp. His tuition is earned by working.
His club votes on a project which will be a guid-
ing force for the entire winter; This education-in-
action prOgram includes such things as building a
bird-banding station, making and stocking a fish-
pond, and reforestation. In this way boys with
potential leadership are discovered to help with the
300 summer campers.

Professor George Draper, Springfield College,
said that he was more concerned with the realm
of free life than with freedom of speech. It has
become a patriotic duty to see what we are en-
gaged in during our free time. \Ve have to be-
come accustomed to outdoor life. Ch0p wood, live
simply but strenuously, and acquire the art of
making things. We must shift for ourselves, learn—
ing such things as how to gather clay and make a
pot. Unless we adjust to the outdoors we are
going to be handicapped.

Dr. ,Elmer Ekblaw, professor of geography at
Clark University: We have not awakened to the
great transformation we are in. When man domes-
ticated the horse and realized what he could do,
imperialism came into the world for the first time.
It expanded his horizon and activities and he sub-
dued others. We are going to have to learn to rub
shoulders together. Conservation is not a science
but a creed. VVomen’s clubs are conserving the
art of conversation and parliamentary law. Pro-
fessor Ekblaw, who lived in the Arctic for several

years, emphasized that if they killed a seal, wal-
rus calves or eider duck, the

people saved as much as pos-
sible to safeguard the future.
On the other hand, when peo-
ple hoard for themselves only,
it is dangerous. \‘Ve are liv-
ing in comfort and ease be—
cause pioneers went out into
the wilderness and cut the
lumber and plowed the soil.

37

Cap’n Bill

38 IT’S BEING DONE 1N NATURE RECREATION

Laurenee B. Fletcher, Secretary of the Trustees
Public Reservation which was organized to ac-
quire and maintain, and open to the public, under
suitable regulations, beautiful and historic places
within the Commonwealth of Massachuetts: The
organization has secured about 50,000 acres in 36
properties in 50 years. Beautifully colored slides
were used to tell the story. The Old Manse at
Concord. the scenic Chesterfield Gorge, the \Vil-
liam Cullen Bryant homestead in Cunnnington, the
Medfield rhododendrons, and the Province Lands
on Cape Cod are instances of the work of the
organization. These are well managed trusts. The
stewardship is more than incidental, as proved by
the fact that every reservation is a bird sanctuary.
The activities are beautifully described in well-
illustrated pamphlets. The address: 50 Congress
Street, Boston.

Dr. I V111. JI. Harlow, New York State College
of Forestry: \V hen in the woods, pursue woods
activities and not ,city games. It would be better
for us to go back to 1776 than to be worn out in
a thirty minute jaunt. Most camps never saw an
axe, let alone a grindstone. An axe is not sharp
unless it can sharpen a pencil. If the axe is sharp,
do not use it to sharpen a pencil as it will dull it.

Sgt. Robert Joyce, assistant in recreation, Base
Athletic and Recreation Office, 25th Air Base
Squadron, \Vestover Field. His talk was a very
fitting ending to the program, “Youth Speaks.”
He said that the greatest thing to conserve is our

country, and emphasized the need of an all-out
effort to win.

Raymond J. Kcnaey, Commissioner, Massa-
chusetts Conservation Commission, characterized
state forests as places where the public can go and
see conservation problems being solved in a prac-
tical way. \\'e are indebted to the CCC for these
opportunities. The romance and color of their
pragram caused people to drive out to see for
themselves. They in turn told their neighbors and
over 1,000,000 people visited our state forests last
summer. Small charges pay for fifty per cent of
maintenance. Twenty-five cents pays for parking,
stove and fireplace, and swimming facilities. Many
budgets have been cut, but the governor did not
curtail the Recreation Department of the Conser-
vation Commission which was an expression of
the feeling of the people. State forests will be open
for business. Even if there is no gas, folks will put
one foot ahead of the other and come out. Recre-
ation guide maps are mailed free.

Robert IlleCambridge, Rhode Island College of I
Education, Providence, told about a new publica-
tion entitled Our Narragansett Bay. Students in
training worked out Part I, and the Marine Lab-
oratory, Part II. Insects as a major problem will.
be published next. The \Vild Life Federation
keeps lantern slides at the college. The State
Audubon, Society furnishes free lectures. Two
sanctuaries have nature guidance service. The
children of the Henry Barnard School gave talks
and prepared exhibits on tagging Christmas greens.

Phyllis lllclncmy, 4-H club leader, Cuslunan.
Massachusetts, announced that the children had
named their group the Indian Campers and would
not know the word “conservation” if they heard
it. However, they have been practicing conserva-
tion and outdoor good manners. The children
wanted to build a tepee the first day but were told
that that was something to work for. Up to the
first cook-out they thought that fish was some-
thing to eat on Friday. The children interviewed
the fire chief to get a permit to build their fire.

James llIiller, 4-H club leader from \Vesthamp-
ton, had nineteen boys and girls make aquaria out
of angle iron, solder, discarded automobile wind
shields, and black asphalt roofing cement. Tropical
fish were purchased. Some members lost their
fish but others had good luck in propagation and
thus possession was equalized. The aquaria led to
such things as the study of viviparous (born alive)
fish, the distribution of tr0pical varieties, the gath-
ering of algae on the sides of the glass, the use of
protoza as food for the smallest fish, and the study
of photosynthesis and parasites. In fact, an un-
derstanding of the whole animal ladder grew out
of the project.

Don l/V. llloyer, Chief Scout Executive for New
England: The Narragansett Council mobilized at
the time of the hurricane and flood, and they are
mobilizing now. The Scouts distributed 1,000,000
defense bond posters in ten days and collected
3,000,000 pounds of waste paper. They did not
keep the money but used it for camping. Camp
Syracuse was one of the first wilderness camps in
the East (1922 in the Adirondacks). Activities
include father and son trips for ten days, garden
planning at camp, snowshoe patrol working out
of Portland, the ski patrol at Rutland, and the
bicycle trailer outfit at Springfield.

H’illiam Nutting, of the Boston Children’s Mu-
seum, showed lantern slides of groups of children
(Continued on page 54)

 

The Dauphin County Folk Festival

Pennsylvania,

on the evenings
of May 19, 20, and
21, the Dauphin
County Folk Council will
present its seventh annual
folk festival, “Americans
All” in the Forum of the State Education Building.
Since music, dancing and dramatics hold important
parts in the cultural, social, national and religious
life of our people, this festival of “Americans
All” presents an opportunity for individuals of all
walks of life to express themselves in a “demo—
cratic community activity.” Groups of all kinds
will participate -—- family groups, foreign—born
American citizens, creative groups, industrial
groups, nationality and racial, civic, cultural, and
welfare groups, and military units.

This festival in Dauphin County is joining the
nation-wide folk festival move—
ment which was outlined in
V’Vashington, D. C., on Sep—
tember 18, 1941. The week of
May 17th has been set aside
as “National Folk Festival
\Veek” so that new and old
Americans can be given the
opportunity to celebrate “Citi-
zenship Day” as outlined by
the. Bureau of Immigration

IN HARRISBURG,

"American Unity Through Music" will be the

theme of the [9142 festival to be presented
in May by the Dauphin County Folk Council

By MARY BARNUM BUSH HAUCK

Miss Hauck. Secretary of the Dauphin
County Folk Council. has had unusual
experience for her activities in the field
of folk festivals. Formerly a public school
music supervisor. she has for years con-
ducted community music groups and has
carried on much research in folk customs
and music. In addition to the IIAmericans
All" festivals for which she has been re-
Sponsible. she has directed sixty-nine
other festivals throughout Pennsylvania.

in the Department
of Justice. The In—
diantown Gap Mili-
tary Reservation is
cooperating with
the Festival Council. Sol-
diers will have an impor-
tant part, and on Tuesday
and \Vednesday evenings they will dramatize army
camp life. Thursday evening, talented soldier-
musicians and actors will appear. The stage will
be decorated with the twenty-one flags of the
Americas. The program will include folk songs,
dances, music, legends, expressions, traditional in—
struments, and costumes all of which have been
brought to this country to enrich our American
culture.

The groups participating include American In—
dian, Greek, Hebrew, Negro, German, “'elsh,
Serbian, English, Canadian, Irish, Scotch, Chinese,
Macedonian, Mexican, Hun—
garian, Croatian, Slovak,
Syrian, Puerto Rican, French
Huguenot, and Pennsylvania
German. Other cooperating
organizations are: the Dau-
phin County Farm Bureau,
the Dauphin County Histori-
cal Society, the Harrisburg
Art Association and the

(Continued on page 48)
39

m: 1042 Festival of
Nations will be held
in the St. Paul,
Minnesota. auditorium
arena May 1, 2, and 3,

The Festival of Nations

Every three years St. Paul, after a
preparatory period of eighteen months,
presents the Festival of Nations. It

will be held this year May I, 2, and 3.

is assembled and watch-
ed over by volunteers
drawn from the group
represented.

Old World Market.

1942.

The Festival of Na-
tions developed independently in St. Paul under
the stimulus of a felt community need and local
interest. The first folk festival and homelands ex-
hibit in the current series under the direction of
Alice L. Sickels was held in April, 1932, in the
St. Paul Y.\V.C.A. auditorium. An outdoor folk
festival without exhibits or foreign food was held
in Como Park in 1933. The “Old World Mar-
ket" became a feature of the festival held in 1934
in the concert and exhibition hall of the St. Paul
auditorium. The present pattern of a festival, given
in the elaborate setting of a mythical village made
up of authentic replicas of houses and shops which
exist in different countries, was developed in 1936.
The name “Festival of Nations” was given to the
folk festival in 1936 and was used again in 1939
and now in 1942.

In 1932 the folk festival and homelands exhibit
in which eighteen nationality communities partici-
pated was open to the public without charge and
attracted an attendance of 3,500. Since 1934 a
small admission has been charged to cover ex-
penses. In 1939 over 31,000 people enjoyed the
festival, and it was necessary to turn away hun-
dreds who could not be accommodated.

The General Plan

The Festival of Nations as now presented in the
block long arena of the city auditorium is in three
distinct parts:

Homelands Exhibits. The homelands exhibits of
the folk arts and crafts of the
thirty—three peoples who have

This market in which
nearly two hundred dif-

ferent hot and cold foods, pastries, and beverages
are prepared and sold by women of different cul-
tural heritages from houses and shops typifying
the backgrounds of all these people, occupies the
Old World village which surrounds the Market
Square in which the programs are given. Strolling
minstrels entertain in the Square before and after

the festival programs.

Folk Festival Programs. These programs, pre-
sented for two hours each time the festival is open,
consist of six performances, each one different
from the others. Except for the fifteen piece pro-
fessional orchestra, which supplements the ama-
teur musicians, the prpgrams are presented en—
tirely by volunteer performers. Each participant
in the exhibits, the market, and on the programs
wears a costume such as one of his ancestors
might have worn, or an American period costume.
Each festival program includes community sing-
ing and ends in an invitation to the spectators to
join in the modern and folk dancing which follows
for two hours in the Square. A single admission
entitles the reserved seat ticket holder to seven
hours of entertainment and participation.

During the program only those participants in
costume may remain on the Square. Spectators
sit in the balconies or “hills,” and look down into
the village. Every performance has about 1,500
participants, and since the festival is primarily for
them, they are not huddled backstage awaiting
their turns but sit at the tables in front of the
sh0ps enjoying the festival
and informally taking their

migrated in considerable num-

bers to Minnesota are on dis-'

play in this exhibit. Each na-
tionality or cultural group
has its own exhibit in the
corridors surrounding the
Market Square. Each exhibit
occupies space approximately
eight feet by sixteen feet and

40

"A folk festival is worth while provid-
ed it is genuine. has real beauty and
sincere objectives. and brings satisfac-
tion to the participants. The talk arts
which have been transplanted to America
live, in their purest forms. in the skills
and memories of modest and sincere
people. A true festival is the spontan-
eous expression of the participants; it
belongs to them."—Alice L. Sickels,
General Director, Festival of Nations.

turns as performers.
Highlights of the 1942 pro-
gram as it is taking shape in
the hands of the committee
include many intercultural
numbers. One finale will be
presented by girls of thirty-
three backgrounds, each wear-

( Continued on page 49)

WORLD

. . . LAST November the
Blcychng ,Chibs EnJOy Department of Play-
Picnic

ground and Recrea-

tion of Los Angeles,
California, sponsored bicycle races and a picnic for
the benefit of the Southern California Bicycle
Clubs. The program consisted of softball games
played by a number of the bicycle clubs, picnic
specialties for women and children, a picnic lunch,
and a tug of war. Following the tug of war came
the races. There were half and one mile pursuit
races, club championship sprint races, novelty
races, special events, and special girls’ races.

 

THE Lackawanna
County, Pennsylvania,
Recreation Division of
VVPA has put into
operation a four point program of national defense
recreation. With the cooperation of the University
of Scranton, a physical fitness program is func-
tioning in the Scranton Armory with over six
hundred young men attending the daily classes.
The second point has to do with the wives, moth-
ers, and sisters of the boys in service. Service
clubs have been established for
them where such activities as
bandage rolling, first aid, social
recreation, knitting and the like
are conducted. Farewell parties
are given' to departing, draftees
in the various neighborhoods. The
training of volunteer recreation
leaders for the Office of Civilian
Defense is listed as Point 3. This
includes a ten week-course. Point
4 has to do ‘with the acquisition
of new sponsors for national de-
fense recreation efforts, and new
sponsors secured are being con-
sidered in terms of postwar spon-
sorship.

Program of National
Defense Recreation

 

Beneficial Effects of
Recreation

 

AN ARTICLE in an issue of the
Archives of Neurology reports

Lighted Play Areas in

AT PLAY

that an investigation of patients suffering from
migraine or sick headaches showed that treatment
through almost any form of relaxationH-games,
short holidays, literature, or music—reduced at-
tacks from one every two weeks to as few as three
or four a year.

EACH WEEK the Dear-
born, Michigan, Press
and the Dearborn I 1:-
dependent publish a
column of games designed for the use of homes
and clubs. The column is prepared by Miss Wilma
Clizbe of the Dearborn Department of Recreation,
and through it the Department is hoping to pro-
mote morale on the home front.

Promoting Morale' on
the Home Front

FOR THE past sixteen
years, according to the
ofhcial publication of
the Jacksonville, F lor-
ida, Department of Public Recreation, the city" has
had lighted playgrounds. In the early days strings
of lights and huge reflectors resembling washtubs
were considered ultramodern in the lighting field,

Jacksonville

"There ain't nothin' else to do
nights. The town ain't got ade-
quate recreational facilities."

 

r4 ‘-

Used by courtesy of Collier’s, the National \Veekly, and Laurence Reynolds, artist

41

422 JOSEPH LEE DAY 1942

a:
** *ir

1k DIAMOND’S *
PART in the WAR

About ninety per cent of our factory's
output is for Army, Navy, and Air
Corps use. We are working 24 hours
a day, 7 days a week to help supply
tools for the war machine.

Such all-out effort is necessary in
spite of the sacrifices of civilian busi-

ness. We're in a war and we're in TO
WIN! When that job is done, it'll be
bacl: to BUSINESS AS USUAL.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Avenue. Duluth, Minn.

     
  

1k 1k
1k 1k

and wooden poles and a network of overhead wires
were accepted as standard equipment. Now Jack-
sonville has 407 aluminum or porcelain reflectors,
each holding a 1,500 watt bulb. These are mounted
on steel poles with underground wiring and con-
duit. Of the 121 facilities on the thirty areas under
the jurisdiction of the Department, seventy-eight
are lighted for night use. These include football
gridirons, swimming pools, softball and baseball
diamonds, tennis, roque, and shufileboard courts,
horseshoe pitching lanes, and apparatus areas. The
lighting does not stop with permanent installations
on established areas. Through cooperation with
Jacksonville’s municipally owned utilities, street
dances, roller skating carnivals, and block parties
take place in sections of the city remote from play-
grounds. The usual procedure at these affairs is
to string up festoons of colored lights along the
sides of the street and floodlight the middle with
portable projectors mounted on the Department’s
trucks. '

“Never a Dull Moment”—This is the name
given a collection of games and stunts which re-
quire only some paper, pencils, a deck of cards,
and a box of anagrams. There are thirty-five party

Joseph Lee Day I942

OSEPII LEE DAY will be observed this year on

Friday, July 3Ist. The National Recreation
Association will be glad to receive special sugges-
tions for the observance of the clay which have
come out of local programs in past years.

It may be fitting this year to remember that
Joseph Lee was decorated with the Distinguished
Service Medal after \Vorld \Var I for his service
as a member of the \\’ar Department Commission
on Training Camp Activities.

I"

games in the collection, twelve stunts, twenty—five
forfeit suggestions, eight brain bafiiers, and ten
party recipes. The material is published by the
National Association Service, 2017 Glenwood
Avenue, Toledo, Ohio. Price $1.00, plus 10 cents
for mailing.

A Wood Carving Contest—Science and Me-
chanics, published at 800 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois, has announced a wood carving
contest which calls for the whittling of a statuette
of Lum and Abner, two well known radio per-
sonalities. The contest, which is described in the
February-March issue of Science and Mechanics,
will close on June Ist. Further information may
be secured from Mr. V. D. Angerman, publisher.

A New Physical Ability Test—Dr. G. M.
Gloss of Louisiana State University has prepared
a Physical Ability Test (Males) which should be
very helpful in connection with the physical fitness
campaign now being conducted throughout the
country. The battery of tests he has outlined is
designed to measure speed, skill in handling objects,
control of one’s body, strength, and “power ex—
plosiveness,” all of which are necessary to the
equipment of a physically effective soldier, sailor,
marine, aviator, student, or worker. The test has
great possibilities in enabling youths to see how
they compare with others and how much improve-
ment may be made by practice in these events or
by participation in other physical activities which
would tend to better the qualities mentioned. The
tests are easily recorded and the equipment re-
quired is readily available. The tests may be
ordered from the New York University Bookstore,
18 \Vashington Place, New York City. A package
of ten tests may be secured at $1.00; 100 tests,
$9.00; 500 tests, $35.00 ; and 1,000 tests, $50.00.

 

0/”5 ABOUT THAT nus-r!

HY put up with annoying dust conditions

any longer! Dust is an expensive nuisance
and a definite menace to health. Today, as never
before, health deserves top priority.

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET will eliminate the
dust-nuisance problem on playground and other
unpavedgrounds quickly and positively. It is an
odorless, non-staining light colored liquid of

petroleum base which coats and permeates sur-

  
 
  
 
  
  
   

GULF SANI-SOIL~SET
treated soil does not blow
awa even under severe
win conditions as shown

in the photo below. GULF
SANI-SET-SOIL keeps dust
in its place.

face soil evenly leaving a fresh, clean surface,
uniform in color and free from glare. It is easy to
apply; is not a tar.

One treatment per year or season is usually
sufficient since GULF SANI-SOIL-SET resists
evaporation caused by the direct rays of the sun
and washing out by rain. It contains mild germi-
cides which kill many forms of bacteria found
in dirt. Users report no objectionable tracking
or staining.

Why delay longer? Write today for the booklet

giving c0mplete information about this modern,

proven duSt allayer.

  
 

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.

controlling dust.”

Name...
I Title

I Address

LH——I—d—~H_——————l—I—#*——g

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the new
booklet “Gulf Sann-Sonl-Set — the modern proven agent for

 

 

 

44 IN DEFENSE OF RECREATION

8th EDITION

HANDICRAF‘I'

SIMPLIFIED PROCEDURE AND PROJECTS

By LESTER GRISWOLD COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO
512 pages 632 illustrations—35% illustration

ISO pages new and revised material, including sections on
Design in Handicraft, Archery, Plastics, Metal, Wood

$3.00 — SPECIAL PRICE FOR LIBRARY EDITION -— $3.00
The Indispensable Manual for Supervisors of
Handicraft in the Recreational Program

Available at Your Craft Supply House and Bookseller

A Travel Contest—~The Instructor Magazine,
which last November celebrated its fiftieth birth-
day, has announced its fifteenth travel contest for
the best letters of approximately 500 words on
“\Vhere I Should Like to G0 on My Vacation
This Year—and \Vhy.” The contest is open to
teachers, principals, supervisors, superintendents,
and others engaged in executive or secretarial
work in schools. The contest closes June 10, 1942.
Full details may be secured from W. D. Conklin,

Travel Editor, The Instructor, Dansville, New
York.

In Defense of Recreation
(Continued from page 32)

tion program. After. the first reading of the town
budget the entire recreation program was voted.
At the second and final reading two days later this
action was sustained.

Some Conclusions
The Bloomfield and Montclair campaigns had
several elements in common. First of all, the in-

  
   
      
 
    
     
   
    

”Let’s Sing the Same Songs”

0 You will want copies of this song
book containing the words and
music of twenty songs which, if we 1
| will sing them together, will help i

make America a singing people.

Single copies. five cents
IOO copies, $2.50 plus

carrying charge

* ‘k ‘k
I
National Recreation Associationi

i 3I5 Fourth Avenue : New York City I

        
   

 

dividuals who attacked the recreation appropria-
tions seemed to be uninformed as to the actual
activities involved or they argued almost wholly
from the standpoint of tax reduction. Citizens whc
were for recreation displayed a broad social in-
telligence and sympathy and showed familiarit}
with the actual program.

Delinquency reduction and the demonstrated
value of recreation in wartime England were
among the effective reasons cited for maintaining
the recreation appropriations. The physical pre-
paredness argument was also convincing.

The experiences of these two communities show
that both in the case of a long-established pro-
gram and a new one strong and effective citizer
support can be mobilized to protect recreation. Ir
both towns immediate action had to be taken. It
is evident that recreation departments in many
communities must face similar threats this yea]
and throughout the duration of the war. The
answer is to prepare for them. Adapt your pro-
gram to the war situation and then keep an ever-
growing circle of organizations and individuals
informed of what you are doing. That circle shoulc‘
include your mayor and the members of the towr
governing body. Draw up the outlines of a cam-
paign and secure the acceptance of peOple who are
to be in key positions. Prepare now, for youi
town's program may be the next under attack.

"Gathering May"

(Continued from page 5)

you can make dashing costumes, and all childrer
like to wear these romantic trappings. Have a
Maypole of course, trimmed with paper chains and
garlands, if you cannot have the real flowers.

A Robin Hood pageant would start things ofi
well. Alfred Noyes has a splendid poem—“A
Song of Sherwood”—which the children could
act out to music, one of them reading the poem
or each one coming forward and reciting a verse
while the others pantomimed the action in the
background.

Anyway, we recommend that you read it, to get
yourself into the right mood for May, and then you
will find yourself with many more ideas to add to

those we have suggested.

Sherwood in the twilight, is Robin Hood awake?

Grey and ghastly shadows are gliding through the brake:
Shadows of the dappled deer, dreaming of the morn,
Dreaming of a shadowy man that winds a shadowy horn.

Merry. merry England is waking as of old.

\Vith eyes of blither haze] and hair of brighter gold.

For Robin Hood is here again, beneath the burning spray,
In Sherwood, in Sherwood, about the break of day.

 

PLAY WITH THE BEST
AS YOU WORK FOR VICTORY

 

For more than 56 years the greatest sluggers In addition to Genuine Autographed Louis-

in baseball haVe depended upon Genuine ville Slugger baseball bats,I'Iillerich&Bradsby
Autographed LOUiSVille Slugger bats to Win also makes a complete line of softball bats for
the batting honors for them that have meant both men and women. There are 29 models

fame and fortune' Big LeaguePlayers “3°99 from which to choose bats that exactly suit a
nize the superior craftsmanship and quality

b ilt into H & B bats Your team members player’s style of hitting. Our complete line of
“:10 will reflect in théir play the confidence: baseball and softball bats for 1942 is shown in

which good bats inspire when they Step up our latest catalog. If you would like to have
to the plate. one address Dept. R.

HAVE YOU

SEEN THESE
GREAT
CLUBS
FOR ’42?

A supply of the I942

editions of " Fa mous

Slugger Year Book" and
"Official Softball Rules
for I942" and "All You
Need Know to Start

Golf" are available free

to your team members.
Please address Dept. R.

  
  
  
 
 
  
  

HILLERICH & BRADSBY COMPANY,mc.. LOUISVILLE. KY.

45

46 FISHING—A SPORT FOR ALL

"Games for Quiet Hours
and Small Spaces”

THE publication of a large edition

of Games for Quiet Hours and
Small Spaces for use in the Recrea-
tion Kit suggested for air raid shelt-
ers has made it possible to offer this
booklet at the low price of 20

cents each.

You may never have purchased a
copy of the earlier and more ex-
pensive edition. If so, you will not
want to miss the Opportunity to
secure the booklet at this reduced
price.

0

National Recreation Association

I 3|S Fourth Avenue. New York City I

 

Fishing — A Sport for All

(Continued from page 30)

handles. Replace tube with two large nails.
Stick in two trees. Use both as driers.

4. “'eedless hook. Tie a rubber band through
the eye of the hook, then loop over barb—-
tight band will not interfere with your strike.

5. Stringers for loose hooks. Use small or large
safety pin for each size hooks. Hooks will not
be tangled.

6. Remove fish odor from hands. First wash
hands in clear water. Then use ordinary table
salt and then again use soap and more water.

7. Bass in the daylight like lures that resemble
minnows, small frogs, crawfish. Don’t forget
the “plunker” that plunks when you jerk the
line. It makes a noise and attracts the in-
quisitive bass.

8. The splash or silent cast is controversial. Use
your own judgment after experience in the
place where you are fishing. Plugs cause
varied opinion. However, the casting of a fly
should be more delicate and silent. The in-
sect alights on t0p of the water without noise

or splash—therefore you must be a good
imitator.

9. Natural baits such as worms. crawfish. angle-
worms, and minnows should be cast silently
so as to imitate the natural movement.

10. The best lure for night fishing is the surface
or popping lure. It does not sink but floats on
the surface. By jerking it makes a bubbling
sound. The bass strikes first——too late for him
to change his mind after caught.

II. A wobbler can be prepared and used for night
fishing. It can act as a surface lure and un-
der water lure. If it is luminous, it is a deadly
agent for the fish and is found most effective.

12. Release unwanted fish under water. If the
barb is in a tough place, it is all right for the
fish to be in the air for a short time. Don't
press down on the fish’s breathing organs.

I 3. \Veather knowledge and proper seamanship
must work together.

14. Cloud formations mean a storm.

15. A good small boat is safer than a big one in
poor condition.

16. Use wire clotheSpins to hold fishing rods.

Need for Conservation

The decrease in the number of fishing waters
due to pollution, factory-infected streams, com-
mercial netting and waste, has taken a serious toll
of edible fish. Netting and commercialized fishing
devices even to the point of illegal dynamiting
have done destructive work.

\Vere it not for the hatcheries operated from
funds received from license fees of anglers, and
our strict conservation laws, our lakes and streams
would be deleted, and fishing would become a
lost art, the oldest known to man.

“There is an educatipnal job ahead for every real
angler. With increased population and leisure coupled
with ever-widening transportation facilities. it is eer-
tain that more and more people will look to the
woods and streams for pleasure and relaxation. It
is a trend that nothing will stop. . . . Our job is to
help the new recruits to enjoy the streams as we do
now and to share with them the keen joy we find in
the sudden flash of a silver fish in a quiet pool. . . .
It will be far better for all of us if these new mem-
bers of the angling fraternity share with us our love
of the sport and its setting than to have them. un-
wittingly, through a lack of understanding we who
know the sport could have prevented." *

' Monroe. Walter S. ed. Encyclopedia of Educational Research,
New York: The Macmil'an Company, 1941.

 

NATIONAL STORY LEAGUE TO MEET 47

National Story League to Meet

N AUGUST 24, 1942, the first national conven-
0 tion of the National Story League will con-
vene at the Whitcomb Hotel in San Francisco. It
will be in session through the 27th of August. The
Golden Gate Story League, an affiliate of the na-
tional group, is working on plans in cooperation
with other groups in the western district to make
this event an outstanding one. Plans include a
president’s luncheon at which the national presi-
dent, the presidents of the district groups, and
others will tell stories. An authors’ luncheon will
honor the people who write the stories. There will
be a barbecue in beautiful Sigmund Stern grove.
A tour of the city has been planned to show the
visitors many of San Francisco’s historic sights
and to give them a bird’s-eye view of San Francisco.

Service programs are being planned to fill an
entire afternoon. Everyone at the convention will
have an opportunity to tell stories either on the
radio or to groups of children on playgrounds,
hospitals, and community centers.

On the final day of the convention there will be
a business meeting 'for the election and installa—
tion of officers. Further information may be
secured from Miss Hester Proctor, 2435 Sacra-
‘mento Street, San Francisco.

Nature's Quiz-quest
(Continued from page 36)

I. The weasel family.

2. Beavers make mud patties and place beaver
scent upon them for matrimonial advertising.

3. Yes, the desert pocket mouse.

4. The barred owl is the “Edgar Bergen” of the
wilderness.

5. Yes, the common deer mouse is a tree-climber.

6. Yes, the horned toad.

7. The Baltimore oriole.

8. Yes, they use scent to discourage enemies and
also use it in courtship.

9. Yes, they give off formic acid as they journey
about. ‘

IO. Round.

Gardening for Pleasure
(Continued from page 35)

book: “The best time for me to work in my garden
is in the morning when the sun is high or after
supper when the sun is dropping down to rest.”

 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT -

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

4.
....

: Complete Line‘ of
 Equipment for all Sports

/ ] -r--~ w wr «m "Wrmrét

/ ’5

I'

l
a. 1,.

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, lnc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., ClNClNNATl, OHIO

Remember, too, that your garden is going to be
hard work, but after all, what is the use of some-
thing that is too easy? Hunt up all the interesting
things you can find about your flowers and your
vegetables. Would it interest you to know that
most of the vegetables that you are planting are
immigrants? Some of them have received their
citizenship papers because we have known them
so long, but the celery first came from Germany,
and the onion from Egypt. Cucumbers came from
the East Indies; radish is a native of China and
Japan, while peas are of European origin. Of
course, corn and some of the beans belong to
America, and so we go on. A country which has
received its people from all over the world can
naturally take vegetables and fiowers from all over
the world and make them grow. Pears and apples
came from Europe, and spinach from Arabia. The

'next time your mother tells you you must eat

your spinach, you just say to her, “Please let me
have a little of the Arabian immigrant,” and that
will be your spinach.

jot down in the back of your garden book what
has not grown very well, so that you do better
with it next year, or drop it out ofwyour garden.

48 THE DAUPHIN COUNTY FOLK FESTIVAL

“The Pionio Book”

0 Everything you want to know about
picnicking—from preliminary planning to
the final event on the program—will be
found in this new and comprehensive book
prepared for the National Recreation As-
sociation by Clark Fredrikson.

In addition to the usual program ma-
terial —games, races, water stunts. and
similar activities—there is a section on
outings in rural communities and a chap-
ter containing suggestions for special oc-
casions out of doors—and here more than
twenty novel outings are outlined. There
are, too. suggestions for picnic and outing
services, for picnic hampers. and fire

building.
' You will find this book invaluable.

Price $1.25

National Recreation Association

315 F ourth Avenue New York City

 

Be generous with your flowers and vegetables.
Help your mother with the fiower arrangements.
She would love to have. you do that, I am sure.

So let us say this year that we are gardening
not only for victory, vitamins, and vitality, but also
for pleasure and for good hard work, for a lot of
work is wrapped around every hour we spend in
our gardens.

——-——

The Dauphin County Folk Festival

(Continued from page 39)

Public School District of Harrisburg. Also joining
the group will be the Perry County Country Dance
Group and the Pennsylvania Corn Husking Cham-
pions. A combined chorus of two hundred voices
from the senior high schools will sing \Valt
\Vhitman’s poem, “I Hear America Singing,” set
to music by Pennsylvania’s composer, Dr. Harvey
Gaul, who will conduct.

How the Dauphin County Folk Festival began
is an interesting story. It was not organized out
of “a clear sky.” It grew out of things people do
and like—their interests, their feeling of respon-
sibility for joining in a united effort for Ameri-

can unity. It took shape back in the year 1936,
when the federal government set up agencies for
“work jobs" in the educational and recreational
fields, including music, under the \Vork Projects .
Administration. In 1935 a county-wide harvest
music festival was held in Hershey, the chocolate
town of Pennsylvania. Through this experiment
of pulling twelve communities together in a thou-
sand-voiced chorus, there were discovered many
kinds of talent. \Ve began to realize that we had
interesting groups in the county which we had
never known about, but they were isolated. A plan
was developed for integrating them into our com-
munity life. This was done in May 1936, when
the Dauphin County Folk Council was organized
for the purpose of encouraging all nationality and
racial groups to become socially conscious of their
contribution to American culture, and of fostering
and preserving the traditional arts of all people.
Philosophies, methods and procedures were out—
lined. Sub—committees composed of representatives
from the various groups were selected and their
duties outlined.

The Folk Council demanded that the festivals
be free to the public, and that expenses of the
production should be ,raised by the sponsoring
body. All groups developed their own presenta-_
tions. The Dauphin County Folk Council re-
quested the assistance of the personnel of the Edu-
cation and Recreation Program of the \Vork Proj-
ects Administration, and of the National Youth
Administration. The Department of Public In—
struction became the legal sponsor.

The first folk festival, the “Festival of Nations,"
took place in May 1936. Twenty—five hundred
persons took part. Three thousand people jammed
the Forum and as many were turned away. Much
improvement was necessary, and the Council real-
ized that this improvement had to take place within
the groups. In 1937 many hazards were over-
come. In 1938 the festival took on the name
“Americans All,” dramatizing the theme, “The
Triumph of Spring.” In 1939 “Famous Folk
Tales” formed the basic idea; in 1940 “Folk
\Vays”; in 1941 “The March of Freedom.” All of
these contributed to the theme, “American Unity
Through Music” for 1942.

The State Federation of Music Clubs of Penn-
sylvania will be the distinguished guests of the
festival during the week of their state convention
in Harrisburg. Much good has come out of these
festivals. Many traditional instruments have been

THE FESTIVAL OF NATIONS 49

,

“pulled out of the attic.’ Interesting handcrafts
and needlecrafts of various kinds have been re-
discovered. Foreign-born individuals have re-
ceived their citizenship papers. Four scholarships
have been given to talented youths. Happiness has
come into many lives.

We believe that these festivals are civilian de—

fense in action! Let there be no “blackout” of the
beautiful things of life.

The Festival of Nations

( Continued from page 40)

ing a costume typical of her heritage, who twine
around three Maypoles buntings of red, white, and
blue. Another finale will be known as “Waltz
Varieties,” and in this couples of many nationality
communities will demonstrate various forms of the
waltz as it has come down from different coun—
tries, beckoning the spectators to join the whirl of
gaiety that marks the end of the program. On one
evening there will be a demonstration of the
Viennese waltz by couples recruited from many
groups, all in 1850 Viennese costumes.

During the fall and winter about eighty people,
young and old, have been learning a western
square dance under the direction of Wilbur Mc-
Candless who spent some time with the Lloyd
Shaw dancers in Denver. Young people of Nor-
wegian, Danish, and Swedish backgrounds will do
a combined dance, using different steps to a folk
tune common to all three countries. After each
group has illustrated its own version of the dance,
the three groups will dance the three forms simul-
taneously. ' These groups will also take part in a
special dance on which they have been working
for several years. Another program, called “Ren-
dezvous,” will feature numbers put on by people
of Swiss, Hungarian, German, and Austrian back-
grounds in a garden cafe scene. Greek, Rouman-
ian, and Syrian girls are working out a circle
dance of steps traditional to their various home-
lands.

The unity of our nation in wartime, our prayers
for guidance, courage, and a just peace will find
eXpression in a special service on Sunday after-
noon which will follow the first hour of the festi-
val program. A committee composed of two Protes—
tant clergymen, a Greek Orthodox and two Roman
Catholic priests, and a rabbi of the Jewish Con-
servative Temple have planned this part of the
program as a half hour devoted to America’s re-
ligious heritage. Choirs of the various denomi-

  

MITCHELL

Playground
Equipment

SAFE

EXTRA-HEAVY construction and elimination of

dangerous hazards has made Mitchell Play-
ground and Swimming Pool equipment the choice
of careful school and recreational directors every-
where. Built to assure safety while providing
maximum facilities for healthful activity, Mitchell
Betterbilt Equipment is worthy of your considera-
tion. Write for literature.

    
    

  
    
   
       
     
    
  

  

Mitchell Products Include Swimming Pool Equipment,
Fold-O-Leg Tables, Folding Stage: and Barn Eqnipment

MITCHELL MFG. C0.

3034 W. FOREST HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN
_ SINCE 1896 _

       

   

nations, singing “America the Beautiful” as they
enter, will present a short program of religious
music accompanied by a series of tableaux. The
service will close with a short prayer and with the
singing by the audience of the last verse of
“America.”

First Aid for Recreation Supplies
( Continued from page 22)

found a flexible, durable, washable paint com-
pound containing rubber, which when applied to
gym mats provides a most excellent covering which
adds years to the life of the mats, and which per-
mits keeping them clean by washing with soap and
water. But this product is available only on the
Pacific Coast and must be applied by experienced
painters with paint shop facilities.

Again, crokinole boards are fairly expensive and
when subjected to rough playground use they come
apart at the corner joints. This failure can be

i prevented by installing a curved flat %3 ” x 1” iron

band around each corner. However, here the ser-
vices of a machinist or a blacksmith are necessary.

Finger Puppets and How to Use Them

(Continued from page 33)

while they are en route by the dramatization with
linger puppets of stories having to do with coun-
try life and with the places to which they are
going.

NOTE: A bulletin entitled “Finger Puppets” by Sylvia

Block, which tells how to make the puppets, may be
secured from the National Recreation Association for

ten cents.

FJI} 'It’ty'ltl ('1’ ('R. {FTS

 

Copyright 1941?. Royal i‘ypewriter Company Int

Engine of war!

b), of the Ho) al Typewriter Com-
pany, are proud to he engaged in
the manufacture of an engine of war.

The part the typewriter is playing in
America’s war w1th the arms powers IS a
vital one, for speed and more speed is the
very essence of our armament program.

Every day millions of flying fingers
must ty pe instructions, specifications,
orders, and rcorders before a bolt can go
into a tank. a rivet can go into a battle-
ship, or a rib can go into a plane.

Ex en on the field of battle, the type-
it riter must help correlate the fast-mov-
ing action. The typewriter is with our
lleet at sea, for each aircraft carrier, each
battleship, cruiser, destroyer, and sub-
ularine . . . each unit of our Navy, down
to the little nmsqllitu hoats, has type-
nriters on lmard.

Wherever men and women work in war
industries, wherever soldiers and sailors
go to fight, the typewriter must go with
them. That is why the Royal Typewriter
Company is proud to he called upon to
help provide the United States Govern-
ment with the typewriters needed by an
America at war.

 

[IOYAL (7/éJ//J;/%'/ TYPE‘VBITER I

piece of cardboard and the design pressed in with
an old table knife.

Emergency Crafts

“it/"Hatinurd frnm pam 13)
-‘ ' .r ".1. then rolled out flat before it was cut
" e hushed shape. The lines creased into the

v 'z . «urce were madt by placing the tin on a

Except for its stiffness tin plate is worked about
the same way as paper so that patterns made of
paper are always practical in tin.

FROM THE FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT 51

From the First Vice-President,
National Recreation Association

Ambassador John GuWinant

 

PM Photo by Mary M arm's

"ANZAHAM LINCOLN, like us, hated the tyranny

of man over man. He was, as we are, the
foe of any doctrine which seeks to enslave one race
to another. He, as we do, always insisted that
democratic government with all its faults was one
1' orm of government ultimately compatible with the
dignity of the human spirit. He passed, as we
have passed, through the valley of the shadow of
death to the victory of a great principle. In these
troublous, uncertain days, when all we love and
cherish are at stake, this time—swept city of Lon—
don, which has stood close to two thousand years,

gives added anchorage to hope and faith in the
future of mankind.”

 

OFFER YOUR GUESTS rHE BEST IN
SAFE, COMFORTABLE SEATING

    

0 Ease of mind with physical comfort
will do much to stimulate interest in
your recreational program. For over
twenty-five years Universal Quality

Bleachers have served the leading

 

schools and recreation centers. Inves-

GET THESE
HELPFUL BULLETINS

tigate their many advantages before

you buy.

UNIVERSAL BLEACHER CO.

CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS

_
A Mexican Fiesta

( Continued from page 19)
it is then covered with grated cheese and put into
a hot oven till the cheese melts. Served on a bed
of chopped lettuce.

Raspada—Shaved ice (for large amounts a
special shaving machine is rented) is put into a
paper cornucopia. Fruit juices are poured down
over this, melting the ice particles together and
giving the whole its Havor.

Huapango—Fast foot—rhythm dance often used
to announce the coming to town of a peddler.

Jarabe—A dance of which every state has its
u\\'ll version, compiled of simple folk dance tunes

and steps.

Sundunga—Type of ritual dance in Southern
Mexico. Usually celebrates some occasion close to
mother’s heart such as marriage, birth.

AtoIe—A thick chocolate made of the Mexican
chocolate bar sweetened with Mexican candies and
usually thickened with flour or barley. Often
flavored with cinnamon. The result is like thick

chocolate sauce.

52 A TIMEIJ’ H’ARNING TO IVARTIJIE AMERIle

Bunuelo—A fiat, round Mexican cookie about
seven inches in diameter and an eighth of an inch
thick. Made of Hour and eggs, and shaped like a
tortilla. It is fried in deep fat as doughnuts are

fried, then dipped into powered sugar. (Some-
times fiavored with cinnamon.)

Pinata——.\lade of crepe paper pasted onto an oya
(thin clay jar) or made of papier-maché. It may
be shaped to represent an animal head, a fruit.
the head of an old man or woman, or covered with
lovely paper flowers. The size of a pumpkin, it is
filled with candy and nuts and used at birthdays,
Christmas, and fiestas or jamaicas. The pinata is
suspended from a rope thrown with the other end
across a wire or tree limb. At the loose end stands
a boy, to raise and lower the pinata and thus
make the game more confusing. “It” is blind—
folded, given three whirls about, and faced toward
the pinata, which he tries to break by striking it
with a cane. Broken, the pinata spills its sweet-
meats onto the ground.

Rebozo—Long scarf or shawl, usually black or
navy blue.

Loferia—Mexican game similar to Bingo. Nine
playing cards are pasted onto a cardboard, and
each player is given one. The dealers in the center
draw from a pack of cards to get the duplicates to
be covered by the players at the tables. The three
in a row wins the prize, as in Bingo.

A Timely Warning to Wartime America
(Continued from page 6)

in the evenings. Because nobody in the govern-
ment had worked the thing out beforehand, the
government at the war’s outbreak suddenly em—
barked on the wholesale and disastrous policy of
commandeering club premises and calling up, or
enlisting, the people who had been responsible for
running them.

The result is that hundreds of those clubs have
gone completely out of action and that thousands
of children, who depended upon them for recrea-
tion, have had to find it in other ways.

This situation is now being corrected by the
development of a great system of youth centers
throughout the country. Yet everybody admits
that the situation should not ever have arisen, and

that it certainly can be prevented from arising in
the United States.

NOTE: This material, cepyrighted by The Chicago Daily
News Foreign Service and William H. Stoneman, is re-
printed by permission.

Nature Recreation in Essex County's

Parks

(Continued from page 11)

of them was our good fortune in being able to
secure the services of Professor John Kovald, a
biology major from the New Jersey State Teach-
ers College in Montclair, who was then working
for his MA. degree and is now studying for his
doctorate. Professor Kovald, who is a member of
the science faculty at Panzer College of Physical
Education in East Orange, has proved his value to
this department each year not only because of his
ability to inspire children and play leaders alike,
but because of his willingness to lead nature hikes
for adults at all seasons of the year.

Our handcraft activities are correlated with na-
ture exploration, and the handcraft specialist has
worked out a plan whereby the activities of the
playground season are tied in with nature rec-
reation.

Perhaps one of the things which helps inspire
leadership to carry on between visits of the spe-
cialists is the fact that, other things being equal,
we attempt, in selecting the staff of play leaders,
to secure young men and women who have been
Scouts and who have spent some time at camp
either as campers or junior counselors, or both.
\Ve have had several Eagle Scouts on our staff,
and by using one or more of these young men it
has been possible to supplement Professor Ko-
vald’s services in leading hikes for groups other
than our own during july and August, as well as
at other seasons of the year when there were re-
quests to lead more than one group at the same
time. One of these leaders, who had been a Scout
master and then went on to major in biology at
Columbia, has been especially helpful in this re-
spect and conducted several hikes for this depart-
ment last year.

In 1940 we read an article in RECREATION tell-
ing about a traveling museum. \Ve passed this on
to Professor Kovald who assembled and trans-
ported to every playground in the system during
the first week of the season a collection of min-
erals, woods, snakes, animals, and birds. This
display, much of which was loaned by the Newark
Museum, was so enthusiastically received by the
children that it was repeated last year and will be
a part of the plan this year when we hope to carry
just a little further the program of trail games,
nature play, and exploration for children and
adults.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 53

 
 

Magazinesiand Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of

  
    

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

The American City, February 1942
“Recreation for War Workers” by Paul V. McNutt

Beach and Pool, February 1942

“Availability of Chlorine in the Form of Hypochlo-
rites” Iby Henry Armbrust. Government priorities
for swimming pools and water works

“Points for Consideration in Beach Development” by

Capt. T. W. Sheffield

Hobbies (Magazine of the Buffalo Museum of Science),
December 1941

“Buy Gadgets at the Five-and-Dime and Set Up a
Bird Restaurant” by Heather G. Thorpe

Journal of Health and Physical Education, February 1942
“A Recreational Games Program” by Edna 'Cole

Monthly Bulletin (Indiana State Board of Health),
January 1942

“There Is a Time for Play” by Thurman B. Rice,
MD.

Motive (Methodist Student Magazine), February 1942
“Folk Art and Abundance in Living”

Music Educators Journal, February-March 1942

“Music in the National Effort.” Dramatizing com-
munity unity and building civilian morale

.‘lIusical America, February 10, 1942
“Our Fighting Men Turn to Music” by Jay VValz

The Nation’s Schools, February 1942

“Swimming Pools Made Safe” by Raymond C.
Harrison

Parks and Recreation, February 1942

“Design for a Bicycle Rack” by Charles Rapp
“Uxbridge Field in Massachusetts” by Herbert J.
Kellaway. Planning modern recreation facilities

Scholastic Coach, February 1942
“Making the Badminton Strokes” by Hugh Forgie

School Activities, February 1942

“Development of Six-Player Field Hockey""by
Katherine M. Rahl

PAM PH LETS

An Evening of Old Time Social Dancing prepared by
Aksel G. Nielsen. Description and music for twelve
“popular” old time dances

Division of Community Service Programs, Work
Projects Administration, 1206 South Santee Street,
Los Angeles, California.

Fun in an Air Raid Shelter -by elementary staff members
and elementary club members

Teachers College, Columbia University, New York,
price $.05

Hometown Games and Crafts

Division of Community Service Programs, Work
Projects Administration, 1206 South Santee Street,
Los Angeles, California

/ 3W
_©W {1% ATHLETIC

’m EQUIPMENT

Mm M w. i. m Runner com um £25111 8: . 113 Angeles. Ca“.
Branch vac N- (latter 3: wage. in.

 

There Is a Time for Play
(Continued from page 12)

position 01 a patient who is going to the hospital
tomorrow for a painful operation. We shall be
the better ready for the ordeal if we forget to—
morrow and get a good night’s sleep. Not that we
intend to forget tomorrow and another tomorrow,
but only that there is nothing that we can do
about tomorrow tonight.

So then let us go to the movies—if there is
really a good one—and see before our very eyes
the way men and women and children should and
do live in a world at peace. It will help us to
remember what we have lost for the moment. It
may keep bright the image of a better world than
the one we now live in. Or why not read a book——
a gobd book about the time when there was sense
and justice in. the world. If one should take a
walk in the park or through the woods, it would
help him to get back to a sound base away
from the distortions of these times. A red hot
game of tennis —-—table, lawn or clay court — will
clear the head if anything will. Get acquainted
with the kids in the family—or if there are no
kids—the dog. How carefree our dog seems
these days. He doesn’t seem a bit worried with
the present situation. He seems to know that
there will be dogs on this old earth for a long time
yet and that the most important thing in the world
is that he may have occasionally a word of praise
from the Master who lives in the Big House. Let’s
have some music—singing, instrumental, radio or
phonograph. Some community games or singing
would help. What about a home talent play? Let’s
go to the basketball game and forget everything
else this evening. Now that we have worked to-
day, come let us play tonight. If we have worked
we have earned the right to play—and besides it

will make us better workmen tomorrow.

Editorial note: In regard to the reference to the use
of rubber balls, it should be explained that Dr. Rice’s
editorial was written before the rubber shortage had be-

come as acute as it is today.

54 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

Every Camp Minded Person

will want the

CAMP DIRECTOR’S HANDBBUK

"the digerent camp magazine"
0

«k A magazine of “how” to handle every phase
of the summer camp. Editorial content by persons
doing the things they write about. Monthly features
deal with the dietary, crafts department, personnel,
program, maintenance, operation, camp promotion,
educational values and a host of other essential
topics of assistance to camp leaders in private,
organization and institutional camps everywhere.

5 Issued in February 
1 March. April and May

SEND YOUR SUBSCRIPTION NOW!

Camp Service Bureau of America
152 WEST 42nd STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 38)

in and out of the museum. Children learning to
care for alligators, a stamp collecting club, a
Pueblo Indian play, July Jaunters Sea Shore trip,
a stamp club, and children gaining tolerance in a
Japanese room were some of the activities por-

trayed.

Kenneth Pike, educational staff of the Massa-
chusetts Audubon Society, has been carrying on a
a demonstration program in the town forest of M an-
chester, Massachusetts. The site was selected by
the children who spend one school day there every
other week.

Dr. L. 3. Sharp, Executive Director of Life
Camps, Inc.: It may be a Godsend to get along
with less rubber. It is putting America on its feet.
The more we use our soles the less we use our
seats. Everything that faces us (except the loss of
life) is a distinct asset. We have to reinterpret
values. If it comes to taking down a historic tree,
I would say “yes” if necessary. But let us have
selective draft -in our natural resources. Camping
has been too soft. We have been pampered, have

gotten into a groove. \Ve have dragged baseball
bats to the woods and called it camping. \Ve arel
in the war. \Ve have no choice. \V e can't go back
to Plymouth Rock and start all over. The kinds!I
of experiences we give now are as important as the'
fundamentals that we associate with the Pilgrims.
Let’s see them and let's see them now.

George Sinaicks, State College senior, pointed
out that the day’s program must be adapted to the;
needs of the camp visited. The camps which stood
out in conservation education were the Salvation
Army Camp at Sharon, the Boston Boys’ Clubi
Camp \Ving at Duxbury, and Camp Tahona for'
Jewish boys near Great Barrington. He concluded1
that in each case it was due to Fine leadership.

Maurice Sullivan, park naturalist, Acadia Na-
tional Park, called attention to the President’s ad-
monition that relaxation and recreation are abso-i
lute necessities. The National Park Service is
custodian of outdoor shrines. Few people can J
visit these shrines without coming away with the
belief that the democratic way is best. This is
basic in morale. Each year over 20,000,000 visit-

' ors come into contact with these benefits. Those

who stay long enough often develop an interest in
birds, flowers, geology, photography, or forestry
that becomes a life hobby. National parks are also
refresher areas for enlisted men.

Dr. Richard lVeaver, naturalist at Dartmouth
College: We cannot go on at the present rate. We
need walnut, so we cut down all of the trees.
Haste makes waste. States with good conservation
departments, such as \IVisconsin, Ohio, and Mich-
igan, started programs in schools. Progressive
education departments took the initiative in \Vest
Virginia, Tennessee, Missouri, and Florida. States
with the most money often have the poorest
programs.

Professor George IV. I V estcott, extension
economist, Massachusetts State College: On De-
cember 7 Massachusetts towns were streamlined
into Rural War Action Committees for the dura-
tion. Three hundred towns went into action to
work out a program in food production, health,
nutrition, and morale. Conservation includes
human resources and time, defense recreation, and
postwar planning. The Public Work Reserve shelf
will include many conservation projects to which i
we can turn after the war. They should be listed i
now.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The Audubon Guide to Attracting Birds

Edited by John H. Baker. Doubleday, Doran and Com-
' pany, Inc., Garden City, New York. $2.50.

Ill—IFE WOULD be pretty drab without birds,” says the
author in his introduction, and so this practical and
authoritative guide on attracting birds to home surround-
ings will be a source of help to those who respond to
the presence of birds around their hdmes and seek to
conserve their numbers. There are chapters on bird pho-
tography and banding, on providing homes and feeding
and drinking stations, on bird sanctuaries and watered
areas. Some beautiful illustrations accompany the text.

Home Handicraft for Girls

By Ruth M. Hall and A. Neely Hall. J. B. Lippincott
Company, Philadelphia. $2.50.

HERE ARE MORE than four hundredndrawings and pho-

tOgraphs in this attractive book designed to guide the
girl in the use of her hands and in creating her own
amusements. The subjects covered include seasonal en-
tertainments, outdoor and indoor gardening, directions
for making attractive modern accessories for every room
in the house, simple ways of making toys, of carrying
out a program of amateur photography, and of making
various kinds of Christmas cards.

Weaving for Amateurs

By Helen Coates. The Studio Publications, Inc., New
York. $3.50.

NE OF THE OLDEST and most essential arts of man-
kind is described in this book, and since weaving

can be as simple or as complicated as desired, this pre- '

sentation of the subject begins with the simplest forms of
loom and woven fabric, and leads by stages to the more
elaborate form of hand loom, showing how by its use
almost every conceivable arrangement of pattern and
texture can be achieved. Every phase of weaving is dis-
cussed, including spinning and the processes involved in
it. The illustrations are very effective.

Handbook of Recreation Areas
and Facilities

Prepared with the assistance of the Division of Commu-
nity Service Programs, VVPA. Published by the Florida
State Planning Board.

HERE ARE Two VOLUMES in this publication. Volume

One contains working drawings of selected recreation
facilities and areas ranging from benches to athletic
fields. In Volume Two will be found the bills of ma-
terials required for the construction of the areas and
facilities which appear in Volume One, together with
such pertinent data and information as are considered
essential to their design and construction. Individual bills
of materials with accompanying working drawings for

each of the facilities and areas may be obtained from the
Florida State Planning Board, Administration Building,
Tallahassee, Florida, at a cost of 20 cents each. A com-
plete set—~Volume One and Volume Two—may be

secured for $6.00.

Our Songs

Compiled by Mary A. Sanders. Available from author,
39 East 78th Street, New York. $.30.

ACOLLECTION OF SONGS prepared for those interested in
recreational singing, especially with children from
seven to eleven years of age. It is intended for sociable,
companionable uses—at clubs, in camps, or on the move.
The aim has been to include a song for every mood or
occasion. The melody is given for each song. Seven

singing games and five songs for dramatization are in-
cluded in the collection.

Fifty Things to Make for the Home

By Julian Starr, Jr. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.00.

As IN THE CASE of its companion piece, Make It Y our-
self, this book has been written for the average ama-
teur. Directions are simple and easy to follow, and with
few exceptions require the use of hand tools only. In
addition to the directions for the projects, there are
chapters on “The Value of a Home WorkshOp,” “Com-
mon Hand Tools,” “The Care of Common Hand Tools,”
“A Workbench," and “Power Tools.”

Footlight Fun

By Sally Coulter. Silver Burdett Company, New York.
$2.36.

THIS BOOK OF PLAYS for children in grades six to ten
contains four plays with full production notes for each
and general suggestions on producing, staging, and cos-
tuming plays. The plays are lively and fun to put on.

Outdoors with the Camera

By Paul Grabbe and Joseph E. Sherman. Harper and
Brothers, New York. $2.50.

Tms BOOK IS UNIQUE in that every common experience
in picture taking is illustrated with “right and wrong"
snapshots and brief explanatory captions. It records play
by play the process of learning to take good pictures.
Charts, diagrams, and tables for quick reference supply a
ready means for making the most casual snapshots suc-
cessful and satisfying pictures.

It's Fun to Cook

By Lucy Mary Maltby. The John C. Winston Company,
Philadelphia. $2.00.

ACOOK BOOK in story form is an innovation, and the
author has achieved something new and different in
this gay story in which cookery problems are presented

55

56 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

in true-to-life situations. The author has personally
tested all of the recipes and has presented each one in an
understandable and simple form. The book is printed in
two colors and is profusely illustrated with 206 pictures,

of which 141 are photographs and 65 clever drawings by
Ruth King.

Walk Your Way to Better Dancing.

By Lawrence A. Hostetler. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

Using the walk as a basis, Mr. Hostetler outlines the
fundamentals of successful dancing, developing in log:-
cal sequence through body control and correct walking
into the dance-walk, and finally leading and following a
partner. This foundation technique he applies to all the
modern dances. A complete picture of modern soc1a1
dancing is given from natural elementary movements
through advanced dance figures.

Democracy in Action.

By Sarah Morrison and Emily P. \Vilson. The Girls’
Friendly Society, U.S.A., 386 Fourth Avenue, New
York. $.25.

In this pamphlet the Girls’ Friendly Society offers a
program on Christianity and democracy. Divided into
two sections, it offers a program for children under four-
teen, and activities and discussions for young people and
adults. In the booklet will be found the following:
Democracy Begins at Home (family fun and health);
IVho Is An Americanf; Listen to the People (propa-
ganda and news); and Making Things Happen in Our
Town (suggestions for finding out what democraCy and
the American way mean for people in your town).

Patriotic Songs of America.

A song booklet which is available in limited quantities
from the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company
of Boston, and may be secured on request by recreation
departments, schools, and similar organizations. Included
are the words and music and annotations for eight old
songs which are a very part of our history and develop-
ment as a nation.

Copies of a leaflet giving the correct ways of displaying
and saluting the fiag are also available on request from
this same company.

Famous Quotations.

Chosen and arranged by Eleanor Boykin. Home
Institute, 109 West 19th Street, New York City. $.15.

Variety has been the keynote in selecting the quotations
included in this booklet, and you may some day find it
very useful to have access through it to some of the wit
and wisdom of the ages. All of the quotations given are
classified under alphabetical subjects such as charm, read-
ing, seasons, travel, youth, and others.

Flower Arranging—A Fascinating Hobby.

By Laura Lee Burroughs. Volume 2. Obtainable
froén the Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Georgia.
$.1 .

During the past few years fiowers have played an in-
creasing role in the decorative scheme of homes. This
attractive pamphlet, with its many colored illustrations,
offers many suggestions for combining and arranging
fiowers in a way which will make for a maximum of
beauty.

Checklist of Free and Low-Cost Books and
Pamphlets for Use in Adult Education.

American Association for Adult Education, 60 East
42nd Street, New York. $.15.

The Association has made available in a twenty-four
,page pamphlet a hst of the books and pamphlets ex-

hibited at its fifteenth annual meeting held in New York
City, May 20-23, 19-10. Since of the 850 agencies invited
to participate 630 submitted materials for the exhibit, the‘
list covers a wide range of subjects.

Inquiries regarding the checklist should be addressed'
to Harriet Van \Vyck, librarian of the Association.

Physical Fitness.

Supplement to The Research Quarterly. American

Association for Health, Physical Education, and
Recreation. $1.00.

The May 1941 issue of Supplement to The Research
Quarterly of the American Association for Health, Phy-
sical Education, and Recreation is dedicated to the memory
of James Huff McCurdy, MD. The monograph contains
some of the significant selections from the research find-
ings of Springfield College in the field of physical fitness.
The purpose has been to evaluate scientific information
and help in applying the data to actual situations in the
hope that a higher level of physical fitness may be at-
tained. Dr. Thomas K. Cureton was Chairman of the
committee which prepared the monograph and George B.
Affieck, Secretary-Editor. A number of faculty members
of Springfield College contributed chapters.

Dynamic Democracy.

Edited by Harrison M. Sayre. American Education
grgss, Inc., 400 South Front Street, Columbus, Ohio.
.2 .

A'booklet which tells how American youth through their
own organizations are working to strengthen America.
It outlines educational objectives of some of the leading

youth organizations and shows how these can supplement
emstmg school programs.

 

 

thcers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Director:

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MR5. OGDEN L.- MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. Lee, Third Vice—President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG Bams, Boston, Mass.

MR5. EDWARD W'. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MR5. Ronznr \Voons Buss, \Vashington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAucan, New York, N. Y.

Mas. WILLIAM Burrnwonrn, Moline, Ill.
Hens? L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TIUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley. L. 1., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

MR5. TnonAs A. Emson, West Orange, N. J.
Rosan- GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
Ausrm E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle. Wash.

MR5. NORMAN IlARRowsn, Fitchburg, Mass.
MR5. Marvuu H. IIAstLL, Tucson, Ariz.
MR3. CHARLES V. IIICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MR3. JOHN D. JAnsson, Sugar Hill, N. 1!.
GusrAvus T. Kinnv New York, N. Y.

n. McK. Luna", Indianapolis, Ind.

MR3. CnARLzs D. LANIBI, Greenwich, Conn.
RoszRT LAssrrsR. Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. Lee, Boston. Mass.

0110 T. MALuRv, Philadel his, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburg , Pa.

CARL E MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

Mas. SicuUND STERN, San Francisco. Calif.
MR5. Anus W. WAnswom-Ii, Washington, D. C.
J. C. ALsu New York, N. Y.

Furonicx  WARsunc, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. \VINANT, Concord, N. I1.

STANLzY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

