A Spiritual Alert

BLAQKOUTS IN WAR are not merely physical.

The strain is on men's inner lives.

Frequently there is a spiritual blackout when there is no threat of an air raid.
Signals keep us alert when there is danger from the air.

May we not need “a spiritual alert"?

Children fear no bombs when they are with trusted unfrightened parents and teachers and surrounded
by an atmosphere of affection. ‘

Now is a time to maintain confidence, affection, comradeship, and to show no outward evidence
of fear.

Physicians who have given most time to mental health urge the importance of recreation in war-
time and urge also skilled leadership.

Emotional stability for the entire nation is a first in wartime. *

The people of England have set us an example in forthright courage and steadiness under severe
attack.

Music and children's games and boys' and girls' clubs and drama have played an important part
in England.

Each person in the recreation movement asks himself now, “What have we in our recreation systems
in localities to contribute to the maintenance of mental health in these times?" We know that
comradeship, loyalty to one's country for the persons back home must have ways of expression.

Music, singing, doing. things that give satisfaction all help in keeping down fear, “war jitters."

outlet for emotion. Nearly everyone finds satisfaction in giving a little leadership in the
activities of children in the home and elsewhere to keep life for the youngsters normal. Of
course, any form of neighborhood or community or national service gives great personal
satisfaction and is in one sense a very high form of recreation activity.

I For some men wood carving, various forms of handcraft work, for some women knitting, give an
|

Recreation in all its forms gives a chance for expressing our desire to keep cheerful, to look on the
brighter side of things, to show that we are not letting outside circumstances get our inner
spirits down.

Is it possible for recreation leaders to work out choral readings, to plan certain recreation programs
in such a way as to help people to live over again man's experience in building a civilization,
in lessening racial discrimination, in bringing about a greater feeling of brotherhood? A large
part of mankind always has thought in terms of some kind of God and many men have
thought of a God who is a Father to all mankind, and to whom men and women can
turn. Certain recreation leaders, without entering the fields that belong to special denomina-
tions have helped the people coming to their recreation centers to live over again the spiritual
history of the race and to build for the spiritual unity of mankind. There is need of
strengthening faith in ideals and traditions that have proved themselves while keeping always
open-mindedness for the new.

I - W 3W
l SEPTEMBER, 1942

 

 

3i7

 

’ Photo by Reynold Carlson

318

The Leisure Time of a Democratic Army

 

Photo by lV. Z, Wade, Lancaster Sunday News

1’ YEAR AGO this was all swamp and marsh,”
A said the commanding officer. We were
standing in the middle of Camp Blanding,
Florida. On all sides, covering thousands of acres,
stretched a complete new city—paved streets, bar—
racks, chapels, theaters, clubs, hospitals, and pub—
lic facilities of every kind. It was the home of
thousands of men who a few months earlier had

never thought of soldiering as a possibility.
Anyone who has recently visited the army and
navy camps in any section of the country must
come away with two impressions: first, the almost
magic manner in which these vast areas have sud-
denly been transformed into populous cities; and
second, the completeness of the military plans, em-
bracing all the facilities necessary not only for
training but for leisure time, not only for making
a man a soldier but for keeping him a human being.
I have spoken of chapels and theaters and clubs.

By
RAYMOND B. FOSDICK

In World War I, Raymond B. Fosdick
was Chairman of the War Department
and Navy Department Commissions on
Training Camp Activities. What he has
to say about problems of leisure time
and morale in the camps today. and
his account of the recreation program.
which is being carried onI will be of spe-

cial interest to readers of Recreation.
The article by Mr. Fosdick. which origin-

ally appeared in the June I942 issue
of the Survey Graphic, is reprinted
by permission of the Survey Graphic.

But this is only part of the picture. A list of the
recreational and educational facilities which the
army and navy have installed in various ones of
these city-camps would include bowling alleys,
athletic fields, golf courses, libraries, restaurants,
schools, auditoriums, tennis courts, volleyball and
badminton courts, roller skating rinks, regimental
recreation rooms, company day rooms, official
hosteSSes, guest houses for visitors, swimming
pools, gymnasiums, pool rooms, beach clubs, row-
boats and fishing tackle. In one camp I saw an
outdoor pavilion where as many as 600 couples
could be entertained on the dance floor; tables
with attractively colored umbrellas were provided
for outdoor refreshment.

I do not want to imply that all these facilities
are to be found in every camp. They are unevenly
distributed, and some camps are-much better than
others. In one camp I noticed that there were

319

320 THE LEISURE TIME OF A DEMOCRATIC ARMY

twenty-three chapels and no baseball diamond.
Often the terrain or the location of the camp in
relation to a body of water—for example. Fort
Lewis in the state of \Vashington—makes possible
a type of development and recreation denied to
other locations. Occasionally there are inexplica-
ble delays in providing equipment for a particular
camp. Or again, one is conscious of more initia-
tive and imagination in one camp as contrasted
with another. But in most of the camps that I
have seen, the extent and variety of the leisure
time facilities provided by the army and navy are
strikingly impressive.

I doubt if many people are aware of the revolu-
tion that has occurred over the last twenty-five
years in the development of this type of activity
for the armed forces. A quarter of a century ago
Newton D. Baker, one of our greatest secretaries
of war, speaking of the American Expeditionary
Force, was able to say truly: “I think it safe to
assert that no army ever before assembled in the
history of the world has ever had so much thought
given to its social organization.” But the tools by
which that job was done twenty-five years ago—
and it was a good job—were furnished largely by
private agencies: The American Library Associa-
tion, the Y .M.C.A., the Knights of Columbus, the
Jewish Welfare Board, and other faithful and de-
voted groups. The army and navy assumed only
an oblique reSponsibility for the task. The prece-
dent was the Sanitary Commission of Civil \Var
days, and while great advances were made in the
volume and variety of social work for the armed
forces, there was always the feeling, both in Con-
gress and in the General Staff, that the provision
of baseball equipment and boxing gloves for troops
in training was not a legitimate function of gov-
ernment. I still remember with some pain my
appearances before the Committee on Appropria-
tions of the House when I was serving as chair-
man of the Commission on Training Camp Activi-
ties of the War and Navy Departments— plead-
ing for funds with'which to enlarge the recrea-
tional facilities of the camps.

In my final report as chairman of the Commis-
sion on Training Camp Activities which I sub-
mitted to Secretary Baker in 1919, I made the
following observation:

I believe that we have reached a point in the deveIOp-
ment of much of this social work with the armed forces
where it can safely be intrusted to the government to

operate. . . . I am strongly of the opinion that the leisure
time program of the army of the future can best be car-

ried on by the army. itself, whether it be in posts or can-
tonments. . . . There is no logical reason why all this
work which the societies have been conducting and which .
is intimately related to the spirit and morale of the troops
should be left to the discretion and ability of private
agencies, collecting their funds from private sources. I
Morale is as important as ammunition and is just as
legitimate a charge against the public treasury. I

Secretary Baker agreed enthusiastically with -
this idea, and the newly created Morale Branch of .
the army, headed by an able soldier, General Mun-
son, laid the basis for the present development. A 
similar transformation occurred in the navy, and
today, with the exception of the Red Cross, which
carries on its statutory functions in relation to .
camp hospitals, no private agencies are working
within the camps. The responsibility for the pro- l
vision of leisure time facilities in training areas is
handled directly and exclusively by the armed

forces.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  

The Leisure Time Staff

The. machinery by which this vast program is
today supervised and directed heads up in the
army in the Chief of Special Service of the General
Staff, formerly called the Morale Division. The
Special Service Chief is General Frederick Osborn,
a civilian to whom Secretary Stimson gave the
rank of brigadier general when he placed him in
charge. No wiser or happier choice for this post
could have been made. General Osborn has brought
to his task wide knowledge of social problems and
a keen understanding of the part that education
and recreation play in increasing the military ef-
fectiveness of men in war.

The personnel by which the program is imple-
mented in the field is selected by commanding
ofi‘icers from the commissioned officers and en-
listed men in their commands. Each army, each
army corps, and each division has a Special Service
officer. The divisional Special Service officer is
assisted by a recreation officer and an athletic
officer. There is also a recreation officer in eac
regiment. In addition, there is a Special Servic
officer in each camp who is a member of the com-
manding officer’s staff. This ofiicer usually ha
one or more assistants. As rapidly as possible a
this personnel is being trained at a Special Servic
School at Fort Meade, Maryland, where a month’
course is being given. To staff the camp servic
clubs, of which mention will be made later, 350
hostesses have been carefully selected from more
than 22,000 applicants. In the camp libraries there

THE LEISURE TIME OF A DEMOCRATIC ARMY 321

are 183 trained librarians chosen with the coopera—
tion of the American Library Association.

In the navy these new responsibilities for leisure
time are centered in the Welfare and Recreation
Sections of the Bureau of Navigation under the
leadership of Captain Forrest U. Lake; and while
there are some differences between the programs
of the army and navy, due largely to the diverse
circumstances under which the two services carry
on their work, in essence there is an identity of
aim and approach.

Finally as a coordinating and advisory body, the
Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy,
at the request of the President, have appointed a
group of civilians and service personnel, called the
Joint Army and Navy Committee on Welfare and
Recreation. This committee acts as a liaison be-
tween the work of the army, the navy, and the
Federal Security Agency in matters relating to the
morale of the armed forces in the camps and ad-
joining communities; it serves as a link with civil-
ian ideas and activities; it makes available to the
army and navy such advice and aid as are re-

quested in the development of programs in educa-

tion, athletics, amateur dra—
matics, music and related
fields; and finally it brings
to the army and navy
a layman’s point of
view on problems
that are often novel
and difficult. In spite
of its ponderous and
somewhat unfortu—
nate name, this Joint
Committee occupies
a significant place
in the morale pro-
gram of the armed
forces. It is headed
by Fowler V. Har-
per, an energetic
and imaginative
man on leave from
the faculty of Indi—
ana University Law
School, who is also a
member of the Na-
- tional War Labor
Board and deputy
chairman of the
\Var Manpower
Commission.

Visiting sailors are free to play and sing
as lusiily as they wish in 'I'he proieci recre-
a‘l'ion room at Merrimack Park. Norfolk. Va.

 

So much for the machinery through which the
work is carried on. \Vhat about the work itself?
The community life of the army camp centers
around the Service Club, of which there may be
as many as four or five in a single camp. These
commodious clubs, attractively designed and ex-
tensively patronized, particularly in the late after—
noons and evenings when the men are off duty,
each contains a large recreation hall suitable for
dances and formal entertainment, a cafeteria and
soda grill, a library, reception rooms for guests,
and often a music room. Each club has a senior
hostess, a junior hostess in charge of the social
program, and a cafeteria hostess.

“The Ship’s Service”

In the navy these clubs are called“The Ship’s
Service,”~and are often larger and even more
elaborate than the Service Clubs of the army, con-
taining not only an ample auditorium and dance
floor, but often a gymnasium, a post exchange,
barber shop, pool room, bowling alleys, and other
facilities for recreation.

The dances at the Service Clubs, held once or
twice a week for the benefit of particular units,
mark a new conception in
military training. To these
dances come the girls of the
neighboring towns
as guests of the
army, often one or
two hundred at a
time, selected by
some community
organization, trans-
ported by the army
—often in army
trucks —and chap—
eroned by the army.
I cannot remember
that in the last war
we had anything
like this. But this is
what Secretary
Baker meant when
he said: “Cut off
from home, family,
friends, clubs,
churches, the hun-
dreds of thousands ‘
of men who poured
into the country’s
camps required
something besides

322 THE LEISURE TIME OF A DEMOCRATIC ARMY

the routine of military training if they were to be
kept healthy mentally and spiritually.”

The libraries in the clubs, generally occupying
an extensive balcony, are enormously popular and
in the evenings are crowded. At Fort Benning—
to use an average illustration—21 per cent of the
entire enrollment of the camp is listed by the
librarian as registered borrowers. This figure does
not include the many browsing readers who drop
in for an hour to snatch a few pages from books
that interest them. The average library stack con--
tains about 5,000 volumes, divided rather evenly
between fiction and non-fiction, and adequate sup—
plies of newspapers and magazines are available
in each reading room. In addition, smaller libraries
have been placed in camp hospitals, in company
day rooms, 'with anti-aircraft batteries, and on
board transports. Library service for men in com-
bat zones is also being provided.

Normally a guest house is located near the Ser—
vice Club where, particularly in urgent cases of
sickness, the anxious wife or mother of a soldier
can be accommodated. TheSe guest houses are
simply but attractively furnished, and in a number

of the camps have been set off with shrubbery and
flower beds.

The movies, of course, constitute a major factor
in the free time of the soldiers, and in each camp
the government has erected a number of movie
theaters which seat from 500 to 1,500 men. The
service now constitutes the largest motion picture
chain in the United States. There are today 446
such theaters in 264 army camps and stations, with
a total seating capacity of over 300,000. The aver—
age weekly number of showings is now 2,920, each
showing consisting of a feature picture, with either
two “shorts” or one “short” and a newsreel. By
the end of 1942, 679 camp theaters will be in oper-
ation, with a seating capacity of nearly 500,000,
which means that more than a million soldiers may
go to the movies daily. Soldier-owned and self-
supporting, the Army Motion Picture Service

charges extremely moderate prices—a book of ten
admissions for $1.40.

For those who like an occasional admixture of
“legitimate” theater there are the entertainments—
mostly vaudeville and musical comedy—put on in
the camps by Camp Shows, Inc., a non-profit
agency financed by the USO. Twenty-four com-
panies are on the circuit, which includes 225 army
and navy camps. Using the large auditoriums,
which frequently seat as many as 3,000 men, these

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

entertainments, given without charge, have proved
extraordinarily popular.

The Serious Side of Camp Recreation

I have already spoken of the chapels. The army
has provided each regiment with a simple, digni-
fied chapel building, equipped with an electric
organ and designed for use by any denomination.
The Easter services in these military chapels, with
their choirs of army and navy personnel, were
deeply impressive. For every million men present
for duty in this man’s army we can expect there
will be approximately 1,000 chaplains looking after
their welfare.

The chaplains whom I have seen thus far in this
war seem to be a vigorous, virile group. Of 
the commissioned ofiicers, they come closest to t
personal lives and problems of the men, and t
intimate cooperation between the chaplains
the Special Service officers has served to make t
work of both branches more effective. The san
situation obtains in the navy.

The educational work of the armed forces cove
a vast range of activities. More than a million m
are in specialist schools conducted by the ar
and navy, studying such subjects as motor mai
tenance, radio, communication, baking and n
ing, stenography, meteorology, chemistry, sanit
tion—everything from the most elemental skill t
advanced scientific research. But this, of con
is part of the training program; this is an ess
tial phase in the development of a modern fight'
forcg,’ ,Qver and above this regular work, seve
 'thousand men bf the armed forces
takip? courses by correspondence, arran
through a newly created Army Institute, in c
junction with the University of \Nisconsin. F
the first time in our army, and perhaps in a
armed force, enlisted men are given an opportuni
to continue their education at any level and r
advance their training through corresponde 1'
instruction.

In addition, lecture courses are available on
great variety of topics. During the first thr
months of training, lectures are given on the o
gins 0f the war and the international relationshi
of the United States.‘ These courses are sup
mented by educational films, discussion grou
exhibits, workshops, and directive reading.

In many camps one finds special courses I
study groups growing out of local interest. Th
at Fort Bliss, El Paso, weekly classes in Spani
and Art are conducted for those who wish t

E

THE LEISURE TIME OF A DEMOCRATIC ARMY

Cozrrtesy St. Louis Post-Dispatch

A bridge party —— complete with the

feminine contingent — provides a
metropolitan touch in training camps

ttend. At other places there
re hobby groups and even
ssay and public speaking contests. In this vast
orce which we are assembling, every kind of
uman interest is represented, and the army and
avy have wisely tried to foster these interests as
: measure of protection to the normal life of our
ew soldiers and sailors.

Yet a Soldier Wants to Go to Town

“I wish that the leisure time facilities of this
amp could be so developed that the men would
ever want to go to town.” This was the remark
a a progressively-minded commanding ofiicer of a

western camp, and I imagine
that it would find an echo in

the heart of many officers similarly placed. But it
is wishful thinking. However attractive the camp
may be, however complete its facilities, when free
days come the average soldier or sailor wants
to get away from his surroundings ; he wants “to
go to town.” And the town must be ready to re-
ceive him with the kind of recreation and diver-
sion that will send him back to his job in a hap-
pier and healthier mood.

As far as the Federal government is concerned,
the responsibility for the organization of the com—
munities in the neighborhood of military establish-

 

324 THE LEISURE TIME OF A DEMOCRATIC ARMY

ments rests with the Ofiice of Defense Health and
\\'elfare Services of the Federal Security Agency.
Local defense recreation committees working in
coordination with the excellent Recreation Divi-
sion of this Office, are in existence in practically
all communities visited by service men. It is the
function of these committees, under the leadership
of the federal field representative, to mobilize the
recreational resources of the community for the
use of the soldiers and sailors. In addition, 250
large and excellently equipped recreation centers
have been erected by the FSA, and 32 additional
centers have been authorized. Of the community
houses now in existence, 200 are operated by the
USO.

The USO plays an important part in the or-
ganization of hospitality in the communities adja-
cent to the camps. Supported by private subscrip-
tion and representing six well known national
societies, it has set up a great variety of entertain-
ment for the service men. Dancing, bowling, bas-
ketball, pool, ping-pong, swimming—there is
hardly a form of relaxation and amusement that is
not covered. Its Clubhouses—both those which it
is running for the FSA and those which it has
leased on its own account—tend to re-create the
atmosphere of the home,and the social consequences
of this substitution are immeasurably important.

The Camps Are Better Planned
Than in 1917-18

Twenty-five years ago, in my position as chair-
man of the Commission on Training Camp Activi-
ties, I spent a great deal of time inspecting army
and navy camps. Today I find myself performing
the same duty. Certain contrasts are immediately
obvious between the two periods. For one thing
the training camps of 1942 are better laid out and
constructed. There are paved roads and even side-
walks where too often in 1917 and 1918 there was
little except mud. Today the barracks are better
built, the hospitals are more connnodious, and the
Clubhouses are far larger and .more effectively
planned. Moreover, one gets an impression that
ideas of architectural unity and design have had
some consideration, whereas twenty-five years ago
our camps were too often dreary collections of
haphazard buildings. I cannot recall any camp in
the last war that could begin to compare with the
Jacksonville Naval Aviation Base of today, where
thousands of men are being trained, or with any
one of half a dozen other camps that could be men-
tioned. In these places great care has been given

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
  

to the appearance of grounds and buildings. The
landscaping effects and even th'e planting of flower
beds proclaim the belief that a military camp does
not have to be an ugly and sordid environment.
Both from the standpoint of external appear-
ances and internal appointments our camps today
give the impression of having been planned for in
advance. Twenty-five years ago so many arrange—
ments had to be improvised in regard to the whole
problem of carrying on the war. The day after we
declared war in 1917 Secretary Baker sent me to
Canada to see whether there were any ideas in tl *
training camps up there that would bear on ou
problem of morale, and later I made a similer
study in England and France. We had to extem
porize our technique and our methods of operatio
as we went along. There was no recent experi
ence to guide us. It was all new and untried, wit
the Civil War, fifty-five years before, the last grel
war which we had fought.

Today one gets the impression that our opera
tions are built on the experience of 1917-1918, at
that the interval between the two great wars h
been employed in careful, detailed planning.
have, of course, no competence to speak on t
technical side of any military question, but on t
subject of the housing and care of soldiers a
sailors I am convinced that there is today a sur
ness of approach where in the first World War 1
certainty and improvisation were all too prevale

I would not want to give the impression that .
situation in. relation to the morale of the tro -
without fiaw. In any gigantic operation such
we are engaged upon, weaknesses are boun
occur, and no visitor can remain unaware of t '
as he inspects the camps. For example, the p
nial and harassing problem of prostitution has
been solved. The army, the navy, and the
are earnestly engaged in an attempt to reclu
and their efforts are bearing fruit. There is,
doubt, still much to be done.

Again, the race problem, particularly as it
lates to colored members of the armed forces,
sents thorny difficulties which have not been
pletely eliminated in army or navy camps u
adjacent communities. These difficulties are r
deep in civilian prejudice and custom, and
run counter to our conceptions of a democ
army. More thought and study are being give
the problem than was true twenty-five years
but no one can claim that adequate solutions ._
been found.

Problems of this kind take time to resol

THE LEISURE TIME OF A DEMOCRATIC ARMY 325

There are other situations which could perhaps be
more easily handled. For example, the transpor-
tation systems between some of the camps and the
adjoining communities appear to have broken
down, with resulting delay and vexation to the
troops who want to go to town and return. The
army and navy may have to take these systems
over. Again, too little attention is being paid to
the morale of small and isolated detachments of
troops on guard duty who are bivouacked under
canvas or other temporary shelter many miles
from any community. They need athletic supplies,
books, magazines, and other facilities for keeping
life balanced. Similarly, too many moving picture
theaters in the camps are equipped only with
benches which are altogether unsatisfactory. Too
many company day rooms remain unfurnished.
Too often there are unconscionable delays in the
distribution of adequate athletic material.

I

But these things, while important, are relatively
minor, The encouraging fact is that the army and
navy are aware of the difficulties and the failures,
and that today not only is there the machinery for
correcting them, but intelligence and imagination
are present, too, to make the lives of our lighting
men as normal an ekperience as the circumstances
of war permit.

 

In point of morale, how does this army of ours
compare with the army of 1917-1918? This ques-
tion is frequently asked and I am not at all certain
that a reliable answer can be given. My genera-
tion is the generation of the first A.E.F., and who
of our age group can accurately gauge the moti-
vations and standards of these magnificent young-
sters who form the army of 1942? I can only judge
by certain external appearances which may not
at all reflect the true inwardness of the situation.

Educational Level Is Higher

I start from what we know: the level of edu-
cation in today’s army is substantially higher than
that. of the men in the last war. In World War I,
four—fifths of our soldiers had never been beyond
grade school. In the present army, two thirds of
the men have had at least some high school edu-
cation. The advancing front of education in our
American democracy finds eloquent support in the
statistics of the new army.

Moreover, although generalizations are danger-
ous, I get the impression from my contacts in the
camps that the average man in today’s army has a
greater awareness of what the war is about, and
what he is fighting for, than did his father in 1917.
How much this is due to the higher educational

(Continued on page 364)

...__._.__._l—..—...._---..-.3qp_—. u;

I
_|

' I .

1

Photo by Private John Bushemi

REPLACEMENT CENTER SERVICE CLUB. FORT BRAGG

mt

What They Say About Recreation

of living together—the art of neighborly fair
dealing—or its material progress will be its
d0wnfall."—Fr0m The Journal of Education.

N a s MANHIND snows up it must master the art

“Inasmuch as leisure has been significant in
human life, it is important that contemporary so-
ciety should confront its growing opportunities
with an intelligent awareness of what these oppor-
tunities promise of good and ill.”——Harry A.

Ot'erstreet.

“The beauty and inspiration of music must not
be restricted to a privileged few but made avail-
able to every man, woman and child.”—Leopold

Stokozvski.

“There is something about the right kind of
music that can raise the morale of an individual
or of a whole peOple. . . . In every great national
crisis the people express their hopes and aspira-
tions through music peculiarly fitted to the times
and circumstances.”—Dr. Alexander Stoddard in
The Etude Music Magazine.

“Everything that man makes with his hands,
with tools, or by machine may . . . be elevated to
that plane of art. Anything which is made so that
it best serves a worthy end is almost certain to
have beauty.”—Leon L. lVinslo'w in School and

Society.

“\V e are beginning to realize that once we grow
to appreciate music we have something that war or
pestilence or depression can never fully take away
from us.”—Fred B. Barton in Music as a Hobby.

“American democracy will become strong be-
cause it rests upon a clear understanding of its
values and significance, and because it can take the
form of action through skills and habits developed
by practice to a high degree of satisfaction and
efhciency.”——From Education and the Morale of
a Free People.

‘ “A nation at war must see to it that its people—

all of its people—get good food, healthful recrea-
tion, diversion, and relaxation, to' promote health
and morale."-——Dr. Thomas Parran.

326

  
      
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
    
  

“The new leisure may mean an escape from
economic insecurity and dull or monotonous labor,
or it can be a release which will mean fulfilment,
growth and enjoyment."—Dorothy P. Powell in
The lVomans Press. -

"More than ever in wartime recreation must I)
assured for children and youth through the ful
use and expansion as needed, of all public and pri
vate leisure time activities.”—From A Children’
Charter in l'Vartime, by the Children's Burea
Commission on Children in wartime.

“Enjoy the esthetic, the inspirational values 0
the forest wilderness and physical recreation wil
not lag far behind. In choosing the one we do no
lose the other; rather do we gain both.” Floy
lV. Schmoc in American Forests, January 1941.

 

“I see on all sides a hunger for amrmations, f0
a world without confusions, waste, or groping,
world that is full of order, and purpose, and f
ourselves in America, a chance to build it.”—I-"
lVycIe Brooks in On Literature Today.

“Recreation is just as'necessary as work. Pr
vision for recreation is not a minor incident
good community life, but a vital element in soci
well-beingi”—Arthnr E. Morgan in The Com
nity.

"Learning new skills and refreshing rusty on
are prime objectives on the labor front. Why n
on the leisure front, too ?”—Marle A. McCloslca

“With devotion to an ideal of work for the
fare of man, implemented with the education ne
essary to make that work effective, the youth
our nation can make of democracy something tr
great.”—Arthur H. Compton in Think, Nove
ber 1941.

“In this time when we are being called u
to give our utmost for the defense of the Nati
against wanton aggression and tyranny, it is ess
tial that we make full use of the inspirational
sources of our Land to sustain us and to recre
us for our tasks.”—From Planning and Ci
Comment, January 1942.

lll

lllllllllllllllm'

I
Q
I.
I

 

OUNTLESS PAMPHLETS and books in current
C circulation contain party plots to fit almost
any special occasion, including games for
Grandpa’s wedding anniversary celebration, puz-
zles for Bill’s Boy Scout troop, decorations for the
Senior Prom, and refreshments for Dad’s backyard
picnics. But it’s more difficult to find a complete
party plan for a general adult party with a dash
of something different, no gingerbread, but created
for everyday occasions. A Salmagundi Spree is
the ideal choice. Its one excuse for being is to
impress on a harassed host or hostess that parties
can be fun even for those who do the worrying
and the work.
With some changes this plan may be adapted to
club groups, or some of the games may be varied
for a teen-age get-together.

The Invitations

In making your invita-
tions, use odd sheets of sta-
tionery with envelopes which
do not match. The wilder
the colors, the more fantas-
tic your invitations will be.

Decorations

Decorating may or may
not be a problem, depending
on how much time, effort,
and expense will be in—
volved. A few attempts at

77;". :
pa. 1‘? '.

7Z4} ('1 not a. conic/'uak.

Mar 4 fund/(.qu
(fast a SIM/1h //¢a.

AM; you and me.

7/0 on aVor- Omar fAin ' £22,
{3! our fa/ma/u’tta’i gas.

P/czcc:
(Mfume -. (mafia)

 

A Salmagundi Spree

By ELIZABETH G. HENDRIX
St. Paul, Minnesota

It might iust as well be called
a l-lodgepodge Party, for that's
exactly what it is—a mixture of
everything, with plenty of hilar-
ity thrown in for good measure!

decorating might be more successful than elaborate
planning. Balloons are always decorative so why
not use them in all colors, if they are available?
Scatter a few toy mice, artificial snakes, dolls
that squeak, and an imitation Wiener on the Hoor.
Over the front doorway hang a ,sign reading,
“Flea, hop in.” If you have any stray sheets of
discarded stationery or envelopes, suspend them
across doorways between rooms. Cover couches
with old sheets, and tie inflated balloons to couch
arms and back. Cover lamp shades with tissue
paper of assorted hues. If you have any crepe
paper odds and ends, make bows and pin them to
curtains. Let your ingenuity and originality run
rampant in planning the decorations because at
a Hodgepodge Party anything goes.

As costumes pep up party
hours, a Salmagundi Spree
as a costume party will set
the stage for real fun. If
some of your guests object
to parading the streets in
their party linery, fool them
by providing old clothes,
dresses, hats, sweaters,
coats, ribbons, jewelry, ar-
tificial flowers, anything you
can get your hands on. Let
each man select a partner
and deck her in a costume
from whatever he is able to
grab. Costume materials

327 .

328 A SALMAGUNDI SPREE

might be placed in a pile in the center of the fioor,
and at a given signal the men rush to grab articles
of apparel to costume a partner. A free fashion
pamphlet might be offered as a prize for the best
man designer. This activity would serve as an
excellent mixer and would certainly put guests in
a gala mood.

Games and Stunts

Balloon Swat. Start the party off a-la-firecracker
jolt with a hilarious get-acquainter which will
leave no doubt in the guests’ minds that a rare
time is the order of the day! Balloon Swat will
do the trick. Provide each player with a balloon
and some wadded newspapers to use as a club.
Players are allowed several minutes to blow up
their balloons and attach them to themselves with
a string so that a balloon floats freely across each
person’s back. At a given signal all the players
run around trying to break each other’s balloons
with their newspaper clubs. The prize goes to the
player who boasts an unbroken balloon when time
is called.

Community Singing. This game may be followed
by a novel adaptation of community singing. If
this is a home party, distribute slips of paper in
three colors. 'Let’s use red, blue, and yellow. All
those drawing a red slip, form one circle, the blues
another, yellows a third. If there are more than
eighteen guests at the party use a fourth color.
For a club group, of course, the number of slips
and colors is increased. Give to each circle the
title of a song, and have each group sing their
selection separately. Award a box of marshmal-
lows or some group prize to the guests in the
circle who give the best rendition.

Lyrical Guesses. Plunge the group into a more
quiet activity at once with “Lyrical Guesses.”
Provide paper and pencil and set a time limit, say,
ten minutes. The guests must write down all the
song titles they can recall which contain people’s
first names, such as Chloe, Betty Co-ed, My
Buddy, Old Black Joe, Margie, Rose O’Day. For
a suitable prize, why not award a ten-cent song
sheet containing the words to the current popular
songs.”

There is a mistaken impression that relay races
cannot be used successfully at a home party be-
cause of space limitations. This idea is erroneous
because relays may be selected which demand
small playing spaces. \Vell-planned and directed
relays will put the spice into a party and promote

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

more' laughter and comradeship than other types
of activity. Try these relays:

Relays for Small Spaces. Games in which groups
are asked to draw various types of objects, either
individually or collectively, are always interesting.
A humorous one to be played in the form of a
relay is to have the first person simply draw a
picture frame. Pass it on to the next and have the
person add two objects to the picture. Each per-
son in turn continues to add two more objects. A
prize should be awarded to the line finishing first
and to the one which, in the opinion of the group,
has produced the best drawing.

Schedule another relay right away to keep this
hilarious spirit in evidence. Arrange the group in
relay formation with an equal number of guests on
each team. Provide the captain of each team with
a man’s necktie. At a signal, the captain of each
team turns around and ties a four-in-hand knot in
the tie after placing it around the neck of the per-
son behind him. Number two removes the tie, ties
it on number three, and the race continues. The
line finishing first wins.

Character Delineation. A more quiet novelty
stunt used to break up the game routine is this.
Provide paper and pencil to all guests and have
them pencil their initials lightly on the backs of
their papers. Then ask each person to draw the
outline of his foot without a shoe. When all are
finished, leader collects papers and distributes them
again. Guests are asked to write a character de-
scription just from the appearance of the foot out-
line. Papers are then relayed to the original own-
ers, and guests find out just what kind of people
they really are.

Musical Game. If selected carefully, a musica
game should prove another method of putting
guests in the best of spirits “Good Night, Ladies,”
in couples, which is ordinarily used at the end of a
party, seems to hit just the right note.

Good Night, Ladies: (in couples)
Music: Old Song

Words: Verse

Good-night, ladies

Good-night, ladies

Good-night, ladies

We’re going to leave you now.

Chorus: Merrily we roll along

Roll along, roll along
Merrily we roll along
O’er the deep blue sea.

Formation: In couples, standing in large circle
facing in. All join hands.

A SALMAGUNDI SPREE 329

Action: Verse: Man bows to his partner (first

line of verse), bows to lady on his left (second -

line), turns his partner (third line), and turns
the lady on his left (fourth line).

Chorus: With this lady as his new partner, man
stands with his back to the center of the circle,
grasps both hands of his new partner and slides
to his left (counterclockwise) around the circle
to the end of the chorus. Form large circle.
Repeat as long as desired.

Alphabet Celebrities. Here is a mental teaser
which will permit players to relax. Provide paper
and pencil and ask guests to go through the alpha—
bet and write down the name of some famous radio
personality, movie star, author or other famous
person whose last name begins with a, b, c, through
z. For a, you might use Edward Arnold, and
so on.

Letter Magic. Nearly everybody likes to hunt
whether it’s indoors or outdoors. Here’s an
original combination of a hunt and activity which
should prove exciting. Call it “Letter Magic.”
Hide letters from a large box of anagrams in the
party room. Guests are allowed five minutes to
hunt for letters, and the first guest to form a word
with his anagram letters is awarded a game of
anagrams as a prize.

Paper Plate Relay. Why not try another relay
now? A paper plate relay will give the guests
something to laugh about. Guests line up in relay
formation. Provide the first player in each line
with pencil _and paper plate. At a given signal, the
first player on each team writes his first and last
name on the plate and passes it overhead to the
second player, who writes his name and passes it
to a third. This continues until a team finishes.
Award a prize which may be divided among the
team members.

Stunts and Skits. Nearly every party, large or
small, needs a program of stunts, puzzles, tricks,
or a short program of skits. A Salmagundi Spree
calls for an improvised orchestra. The director,
chosen by the guests, should get as much fun from
this activity as do the guests. Provide glasses and
spoons, kettles, sticks, toy drums, harmonicas,
horns—anything that’s guaranteed to make a
noise. Ask the guests to play several familiar songs.
This form of entertainment will cause the more
serious guests to shed their dignity (if they have
any left).

Brain teasers, if played too long, may become
boresome. Here’s one that will test the ingenuity

of Dr. IQ himsele Use the word SALMAGUNDI.
Provide paper and pencil, and ask guests to write
this word at the top of their papers. Allow ap—
proximately ten minutes, and have guests see how
many other words may be formed using letters
found in the root word only as many times as
they appear. Twenty is easy, thirty takes more
effort, and anyone should be proud of forty.

If possible, end your game program with an
action game. Nearly everybody enjoys the old
kid games. Dare to be original. Buy a package
of colored drawing paper and place around the
floor one less sheet than there are players. Have
someone play the piano. When the music stops,
each player must stand on a colored sheet—the
one who gets none drops out. This continues until
just two contestants are competing for winner.
The fun of this game is heightened if guests will
not lag or loiter or remain near a sheet of paper.
Everyone must keep moving.

Refreshments

A refreshment plan for any style party should
be planned in advance. A more simple menu is
generally in greater demand. Fit your menu to
your party needs and let your guests enjoy the
type of food and style of serving that {its the kind
of party given.

If you wish to serve aione-dish meal such as a
combination of spaghetti and hamburger, you need
rolls, pickles, coffee, and a plain dessert such as
jello mixed with whipped cream.

A box lunch is a favorite because it carries out
the party air and gives guests more opportunity
for friendly chatter. ‘

Buffet style lunches of sandwiches, pickles, cake
and coffee are usually sufficient to satisfy the most

hungry guest.

A help—yourself theme for refreshments where
guests draw slips and work in couples to prepare
and serve the party eats is another sure-fire hit.

If you’re fortunate enough to own an outdoor
fireplace, why not serve refreshments picnic style
in your own backyard? Choose whatever style of
serving you think the guests will enjoy most, and
plan party fare to suit all tastes.

Doesn’t this whole idea of a Salmagundi Spree
have great party appeal? You’ll like the theme
once it’s tried, and you will probably be able to
vary games or supply other clever ideas of your
own, all of which will add to the party’s success

(Continued on page 366)

Outlying Recreational Areas

URING THE PAST
D eight years the Na-
tional Park Ser-

vice has acquired and
developed fifty-four Rec-
reational Demonstration
Areas, situated in twen-

ty-four of our states, and
comprising 323,935 acres. These areas have been

purposely located where they would be accessible
to large population centers, in order to alleviate,
to some extent, certain recreation deficiencies. An
important objective has been to demonstrate that
an intelligent
program in-
volving the con-
servation of nat-
ural resources,
particularly for-
ests, lands and
waters, certain-
ly should in-
clude provisions
for public rec-
reation. With
3 this objective in
view, four dis-
tinct types of
projects were
inaugurated to
provide for the varied forms
of out-of-door recreational
needs. The areas are classi-
fied by the following types: (I) vacation areas,
(2) wayside developments, (3) state park exten-
sions, (4) national park and monument extensions.

The areas which lie closest to the large indus-
trial cities are best known for their organized
camping facilities which are used by hundreds of

camping organizations. These camps were planned .

primarily to meet the needs of social. and welfare
and other agencies unable to finance the purchase
of land and construction of their own facilities.
Permits to occupy these camps are granted to
such agencies for seasonal, intermediate, or short-
term use, depending upon the length of time which
thecamp is to be occupied. Through a cooperative
arrangement, two or more organizations may
Operate a camp jointly for an entire season. Use

330

Our Demonstration Areas are playing
an important part in the war effort

By ERNEST BUFF, JR.

National Park Service

 

British officers and men have found rest
and relaxation in the Recreational Areas

r in vain.

of the camps, especially
by adult groups, for
short-term, week-end
and overnight camping
has become increasingly
popular during the fall,
winter and spring
months. Thus, a man-
agement program has been instituted which will
assure maximum use of these facilities throughout
the entire year.

Use of facilities and provisions for public day
use and overnight tent and trailer camping has
also increased
greatly. The
Recreational
Demonstration
A r e a s o ff e r
many miles 0
clear streams,
numerous lakes
picnic areas, -
bathhouses an
s w i m m i n :4 '
pools, and play
fields. Thou
sands of mile
of woodlan
trails lead ove
picturesque
hills and dales to scenic point
Here one can find a chanc
to explore the forests, stud
nature, go fishing, or engage in other healthy re
reational pursuits.

The popular demands made of the fine organize
camps, public camp sites, picnic areas and 0th
facilities provide concrete testimony that the gr
amount of technical research and planning effo
which the National Park Service has thrown b
hind this positive program of land use has not be

 

The present emergency situation has uncovere
additional recreational needs for these areas dur
ing wartime, and management programs to '4
these needs are already under way. During th
past year more than 5,000 British officers a
men, scarred veterans of many hard-fought na -
engagements, have been rested, relaxed and enter

 

OUTLYING RECREATIONAL AREAS 331

tained on seven of the Recreational Demonstration
Areas. In groups of from fifty to a hundred, the
3 men have been quartered at the organized camps
for from one to two weeks, while their damaged
ships were receiving repairs in our protected har-
bors. National Park Service personnel have
given generously of their time and energy in com-
pleting arrangements with the British Naval rep-
resentatives for this use of the recreational areas.
It is likely that many more British seamen (and
other members of our Allied fighting forces) will
find rest and recreation on these areas during the
coming season.

President Roosevelt recently stated that “sen-
sible participation in healthy recreational pur-
suits” would tend to improve the American war
effort, but that shorter, more frequent vacations
(of two or three days) should supplant the long
and extended vacations of peacetime years. The
Recreational Demonstration Areas offer excellent
opportunities for healthy, inexpensive and short
-——vacations. One of these areas, the Catoctin Rec-
reational Demonstration Area, is located in the
northern section of Maryland, about sixty miles
from Washington, D. C. The Federal Camp Coun-
cil in the city of Washington has, for the past
several years, operated one of the three organized
camps on the area, and thus provides for short
vacations of. the type suggested above to the gov-
ernment employees in our nation’s capital. The
camp, Hi Catoctin, is situated on the highest-of
the Catoctin Mountains, which are part of the
Blue Ridge Mountain Range. The elevation is
2,000 feet, and provides
the nearest high altitude
vacation area to the thou-
sands of sweltering gov—
ernment workers in
Washington. The attend-
ance at Hi Catoctin, and
the fact that the Federal
Camp Council made
enough profit last summer

 

A camp at Hi Catoctin
in the northern part
of Maryland otters va-
cation facilities for
thousands of govern-
ment employees work-
ing in Washington

to purchase new mattresses, cooking utensils and
other equipment necessary for the Operation of
the camp, is evidence of the p0pularity of this
kind of recreational service.

During the fall and Spring months, the Council
plans week-end camp-outs at Catoctin. Posters are
exhibited in Federal buildings, notifying the em-
ployees of the respective dates. The camp—outs are
always very popular, and because it is necessary
to restrict the number of applicants, many are
turned away.

These large but accessible woodland recreational
areas have also been proposed for evacuation cen-
ters for children during air raid bombings. It is
h0ped that such use will never have to be made
of the areas, but if necessity should demand it, the
Recreational Demonstration Areas are well equip-
ped to provide shelter and facilities for thousands
of children and adults.

“The Recreational Demonstration Areas which
lie closest to the large Demonstration Areas,”
states the National Park Service in a pamphlet
entitled An Invitation to N 6021 Play Areas, “are
best known for their organized camping facilities
which are used by hundreds of camping organiza-
tions. These camps were planned primarily to
meet the needs of social and welfare agencies un-
able to finance the purchase of land and construc-
tion of their own facilities, but they are also used

by other organizations such as Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., and 4~H Clubs. In

(Continued on page 365)

 

The Planning of School Grounds

Community Use

By GEORGE D. BUTLER and F. ELLWOOD ALLEN

National Recreation Association

HE COMMUNITY USE of school buildings and

grounds for recreation and other leisure-time

activities has been widely accepted by leaders
in the field of education as normal and desirable.
Too often the term “community use” has meant
merely theoccasional restricted use of school prop-
erty by non-school groups. In modern theory and
practice, however, community use is a major func-
tion of school buildings and grounds, requiring
careful consideration in their design and develop-
ment.

School Property, a Community
Recreation Resource

Present-day conditions and needs make it im-
perative that school properties be recognized as
community recreation resources. The acquisition
and development of a system of municipally owned
recreation areas to serve the increasing public de-
mand for recreation service cannot be justified if
school facilities suitable for recreation use are lying
idle during considerable periods. Increasingly,
therefore, school grounds are being designed to
provide for the varied recreation needs of chil-
dren, young pe0ple, and adults throughout the
entire year. In some instances this means that
facilities are provided that would not be included
if these areas were restricted to school use alone.
Fortunately, however, much
the same areas and facilities
are needed in both the school
and the community programs,
and in general the same funda-
mental principles apply in de-
signing them for both types of
use. The purpose of this article

332

for

This article was first published in The
American School and University,
I942 Edition. We are indebted to the
publishers of this Yearbook. the Ameri-
can School Publishing Corporation,
New Yorlt City. for permission to re- ‘
print the material in Recreation, and
for the use of the accompanying cuts.

 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
 
   
  
 
  
    
   

and the accompanying studies is to suggest a fe
practical considerations in the design of scho
grounds in order that they may effectively se
both school and community recreation use.

It is impossible, in a brief article, to consider
aSpects of the problem of planning school groun
for community use, but attention will be focu
on the development of an elementary school and
high school site. The accompanying studies a
intended merely to illustrate general principles i
the design of school grounds, and for this rea T
they contain few details. Obviously, no standar
ized plan is possible or desirable. In both p1
the location of the school building on the site
indicated, but the building lines are inten
merely to suggest the approximate dimensions I
the area occupied rather than to indicate the
cific size and shape of the building.

Elementary School Grounds

Leading school authorities have long advoca
five acres as a minimum site for elementary sch u.
and increasingly sites of this size have been
quired. A large portion of the site is commo
developed as a school playground. Each neighb
hood served by an elementary school requir
playground designed to serve primarily the var'
play needs of children between the ages of five .
fifteen, and in general it is desirable that this
at or adjoining the school 5' 1
The elementary school -
ground for the children of t
school and neighborhood sho
therefore afford the diversi .
types of play opportunities '
sential to the children’s grow
and deve10pment, whether suc

THE PLANNING OF SCHOOL GROUNDS FOR COMMUNITY USE 333

   
 
 

e‘... w "T 316, V]- v.
,  a 
l I

I!  I I F. Ellwood Allen,
.: .WLLl BALL.  G D B I
.- APPARATUS H m eorge . ut er,
jg “ Dcsrgners
' I

     
  
  

Study for devel-
opment of ele-
mentary school
grounds for use
of both school

and communi'l'y

 

 

 

{Q .
| - I” u I. .

25

l n
v

opportunities are provided as a part of the regu-
lar school program or outside of school hours.
The accompanying study” for the development of
elementary school grounds is intended to suggest
how a live-acre site may be designed for both
school and community use.

It will be noted that one corner of the property,
comprising about one acre, is devoted to the site
of the school building. The various sections of the
grounds are arranged so as to afford maximum
ease of circulation, to facilitate supervision, and to
make possible a wide variety of diversified uses.
Much of the area is fenced, and by setting the
fence a few feet in from the property line a border
planting strip is provided which adds to the attrac-
tiveness of the playground and tends to shield the
neighborhood from the playground noise.

Serving the Small Children. The tots’ area is
placed near the main entrance to the playground
so that small children can reach it easily without
crossing sections used by the older children. This
area is also close to the school building, an ad-
vantage from the standpoint of supervision while
the area is being used by the kindergarten, and
also because it affords easy access to toilets in the
building. Adjoining the tots’ area is the wading
pool, which is primarily used by the young chil-
dren. Among the features commonly included in
I the tots’ area are sand-boxes, low swings, slide,

 

SCALE O'F TEET

and junior junglegym, all of which are exceedingly
popular with young children and afford essential
developmental opportunities for them. Playhouses
make possible many forms of make-believe and
social play which have a strong appeal. Benches
are appreciated by the mothers who bring their
young children to the playground.

If the school grounds were to be developed for
school use alone, the wading pool would not be
needed. However, there is perhaps no more popu-
lar playground feature during the summer months,
and opportunity for water play should be provided
on most neighborhood playgrounds. When not
used for wading, it becomes a pool for sailing
miniature boats. A smaller pool than is suggested
in the study may be adequate, but in a densely
populated neighborhood serving a large number of
children a larger pool which can serve as a volley-
ball court, or for other play activities during sea-
sons when the pool is not used for wading, may
be needed. The paved area surrounding the pool
can be used for hopscotch or other games. During
certain periods it may serve the small children as a
track for their velocipedes and other vehicles.

Facilities for Varied Forms of Play. The near-by
corner devoted to crafts and quiet games is a
feature rarely found on the school playground, but
it has limitless possibilities for varied use, both
during the school term and in vacation periods.

334 THE PLANNING OF SCHOOL GROUNDS FOR COMMUNITY USE

Removing it from the areas used for strenuous and
noisy play by large numbers of children enables
activities such as storytelling, crafts, dramatics,
and other group activities to be carried on without
interruption or disturbance. Tables, benches, craft
materials, and other equipment needed in this sec-
tion, may  transferred readily to the school
building. A council ring for school and Scout
groups, feeding stations for birds, a miniature out-
door theater, a nature museum, and an alpine gar-
den are a few of the possible features that can be
introduced into this corner. It will appeal particu-
larly to the large number of boys and girls who
have no special interest in sports and who find
little to attract them on many playgrounds.

Apparatus merits a place on the playground
because it has a strong appeal to children and also
because it contributes to the school physical edu-
cation program. In order to facilitate supervision
and to economize in space, a segregated area is
suggested for the apparatus for the older children.
The number and variety of types of equipment to
be provided will vary, but among those most highly
recommended are swings, slide, horizontal ladder,
and horizontal bar. A low fence surrounding this
area is indicated.

Areas for Games and Sports. Adjoining the ap-
paratus area is the multiple-use area designed for
a variety of games. This area requires an all-
weather surface in order that it may be available
for use throughout the year. Not only the size of
this area but also the number and types of game
courts laid out on it will vary. This section is used
both in connection with physical education class
activities and for informal individual and group
play. Few sections of the playground receive more
intensive use.

In the corner of the area farthest removed from
the school building are two tennis courts, which
require little supervision except when used for
class or group instruction. If these courts are pro-
vided with an all-weather surface, they can be used
the year round and, like the multiple-use area, can
be used for a variety of activities in connection
with the physical education program. In sections
of the country where ice skating is possible, they
may be flooded during the winter months.

A large open area, free from obstructions, has
been set aside for games and other play activities
for the older age group. This is of the utmost
importance because many of the activities appeal-
ing to the older boys and girls require considerable
space. The area is used primarily for group or

,be desirable, either on the multiple-use area or

spaces. A section of the grounds, possibly near the

  
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
    
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

team games such as softball or soccer, but it also
serves as a field for the flying of kites, for play
days, informal meets, and other activities involving,r
large numbers of children. Many playgrounds fail
to attract the children in the upper grades because

they are not large enough for these popqu
activities.

The plan suggested here makes possible a diver-
sified program appealing to a wide range of inter-
ests and ages, but it by no means includes all the
features that merit a place on the elementary school
grounds. Many additional features could well be
provided, depending upon local interests and the
unusual possibilities afforded by the individual
site. In some communities a basketball court may

near-by, and equipment for such games as goal-hi
and tether ball can readily be provided in small

school building, may be developed for children’s
gardens.

Development of High School Grounds

The design of the high school site gives rise -
many problems different from those encounte .
in developing a plan for the elementary sch
grounds, because the two areas differ markedly '
size, in the ages of the individuals served, and '
the type of service to be provided. Twenty ac
are considered a minimum for a modern h'
school site. The grounds provide a variety '
features necessary for a well-balanced school a
sical education program for the entire stu
body as well as opportunities for cultural .
scientific activities connected with the school t
gram. In addition, they provide facilities ser '
the leisure-time activities of non-school youth -
adults, including activities that may have 1'
relation to the school curriculum. They afford _
major outdoor recreation center for young pa
and adults in the section of the city in which
high school is located. The accompanying plan
intended to illustrate the possible development .
this type of high school grounds.

The site in question comprises 25 acres, A
which some 4 acres are set aside for the sch
building and approaches. The remainder of t
site is devoted to recreation, parking, or lands . r
areas. Most of the features suggested in the u .
are used in connection with the high school pro
gram, although a few of them, such as the outdoor
theater, swimming pool, and certain of the game

THE PLANNING OF SCHOOL GROUNDS FOR COMMUNITY USE 335

courts, are not commonly provided except on areas
that are designed with community use in mind.

Relating Indoor and Outdoor Facilities. In this
plan, the development of the school grounds is
definitely related to the arrangement of the school-
building units. The suggested location of the gym-
nasium and auditorium has been an important

factor in determining the development of much of
the area. For example, the gymnasium affords
ready access to both the girls’ playfield and the

major sports areas serving primarily the men and

boys. This permits coordination between the in-
door and outdoor physical education programs and
facilitates the use‘of the locker and shower facili—
ties in connection with outdoor activities.

Similarly, the area adjoining the auditorium has
been developed in relation to this part of the school
plant. A distinctive feature is the band-shell which

ALL WIATH I!
HULTI'LI. “It

. . . . . 4 .4......n.-.--.

_ _ _ .
g ' mu. or Ttlf

r'. Ellwood-Allen, George u. Buder, Designers

has been incorporated in the building and which
serves as a background for the large outdoor
theater. These features can be used for musical,
dance, and dramatic presentations by school and
community groups, and they are easily accessible
to dressing rooms and other indoor facilities pro-
vided in connection with the auditorium. Near-by
is a section devoted to outdoor arts and crafts
groups, separated from the areas devoted to the
major active games and sports. The garden in a
court of the school building affords an opportunity
for observation, rest, and study.

Sports Areas. A major part of the grounds is
devoted to sports. Among the features meriting
attention are the special section set aside exclu-
'sively for field sports for girls and the near-by
multiple-use area, also intended for their special
use. Often the needs of older girls and women are
neglected in school and community recreation

.0... .—.....-..-..-~

0
n—Ifdt-"C-Olunncuoll-QIOC

 

 

 

Courtesy of The American School and University

336 THE PLANNING OF SCHOOL GROUNDS FOR COMMUNITY USE

areas, but in this plan a
section of the site is set
aside for their exclusive
use. The number and types
of courts to be developed
in it depend upon local in-
terests, needs and tradi-
tions, and so far as possi-
ble the field and all-weather
area should be utilized for
diversified activities.
Among the sports sug-
gested in the plan are field
hockey, softball, badmin-
ton, basketball, volleyball,

"The preparation of a satisfactory plan for an
area to serve both school and community rec-
reation needs requires the cooperation and
collaboration of school and recreation authori-
ties. Only as the requirements of school and
community groups are jointly considered can a
plan be developed that will afford the maximum
service to both. Wherever possible' the services
of a competent landscape architect should be
secured in the preparation of the site plan.
Teachers cannot be expected to instill in chil-
dren an appreciation of beauty. a sense of or-
derliness. and respect for school roperty it the
school grounds are unattractive. badly planned,
and impr0perly maintained. On the other
hand. an adequate, well-designed school area
becomes at once a source of pride and a center
for joyous neighborhood and community life."

feature not commonly

owing to its size and free-
dom from obstructions. In
a secluded corner of the
field a bowling or putting
green is suggested, pri-
marin for the benefit of

adults.
Other Features. The out-

door swimming pool is a

   
 
   
 
  
 
 
   

found on high school sites,
but it is suggested in the
plan. Admittedly, this will
be little used while school
is in session, but in com-
munities where suitable

shufHeboard, paddle tennis,
and horseshoes.

Other sections of the field will be used jointly
by both sexes. For example, a battery of tennis
courts serves as a transition area between the girls’
section and the major sports area for men and
boys. Girls will also make use of the archery range

that is suggested for one corner of the site. Inci- .

dentally, the border of plantings contributes to
safety and also affords a desirable windbreak.

Near the gymnasium is developed an all-weather
multiple-use area primarily for the use of men and
boys. It is quite similar to the comparable area for
girls, but it also includes several courts for hand-
ball.

Separate areas are provided for football and
track on the one hand, and baseball on the other-—
a desirable arrangement whenever space permits.
Often the baseball diamond is laid out within the
running track, but this arrangement is not satis-
factory because the seating facilities are not ideal
for both sports, the skinned diamond extends over
the area used for football, the track interferes with
baseball play, and while baseball is being played
the track cannot be used—a serious disadvantage
since the baseball and track seasons are identical.
The suggested plan provides for a quarter-mile track
with 220-yard straightaway. The area within the
track enclosure is used for football in the fall and
for softball and other field games during other sea-
sons. Bleachers are arranged so that the sun is at
the back of the spectators.

The layout'for baseball furnishes an ideal dia-
,mond with adequate seating facilities for specta-
tors. During other seasons, however, the field may
be used for other sports without encroachment on
the skinned diamond. A variety of team games
may be carried on simultaneously on the field,

 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   

outdoor swimming areas
are not readily available elsewhere, 3 swimming
pool should be included in the community play—
field. It will prove a most popular feature during
the summer months and will enable the area to
provide a well—balanced recreation service. Th
location in the corner of the site makes the po
easy to reach, segregates the swimmers from othe
using the field, helps advertise the pool, and.o
cupies space least desirable for school activitie
Noise from the pool will not interfere with pr
grams in the outdoor theater.

The wooded area near the outdoor theater .. '
fords opportunities for varied development. F
example, in this corner of the site a miniatu
nature trail might be established, or the area mig
be deve10ped as a bird sanctuary. In some co
munities a playground for young children in t
corner might be desirable so as to afford a pl
where parents could leave their children while t
are engaging in recreation activities on other pa
of the site. The area suggested for lawn games s
be used for many forms of activity such as croq
deck tennis, and badminton.

Provision for parking is generally essential
areas that attract large numbers of individ
many of whom come in their automobiles.
parking area should lead as directly as possibl ~
sections of the area serving large numbers of o
ple. Along the upper side of the high school
adjoining the football bleachers is a parking a
of approximately two acres. This is readily acc
sible not only to the bleachers but also to the o ‘
door theater, the baseball grandstand, and
swimming pool.

A school and community playfield of this ty

(Continued on page 370)

.the following clasSifications

A Hobby Show in Daytona Beach

By ROBERT HUNTER

ESIGNED pri-
marily for
tourist enter-

tainment at the
height of the win—
terseason,our
Daytona Beach
show was an ex-
periment. Mrs.
Betty Lyons, host-
ess of City Casino,
had had no experi-
ence with a hobby
show. She felt
confident, how-
ever, that many
local residents and
visitors would wel-
come the oppor-
tunity to exhibit
their hobbies if
adequate arrange-
ments were made.
50 starting from
scratch, she an-
nounced the show for February 18th. Sixty-seven
entries were obtained which completely filled all

. available space in the City Casino. 80 great was

the interest that it became necessary to keep the
show open a second day. The total attendance in
the two days was 3,421.

The purpose of the show, according to its or-
ganizer, was to serve the community by showing
in how many ways individuals may use their lei-
sure constructively and happily; how accessible
such activities are; and that facilities exist locally for
the development of latent talent and the enjoyment
of wholesome recreation. Finally, the exhibit was
designed to show how much
there is of friendliness and
willingness to share.

No charge was made either
for the participants or the
audience.

the City

Classifications
In the preliminary rules

The hobby show which was held last Febru-
ary in Daytona Beach. Florida. convinced
Recreation Department that with
exhibitors behind every pillar and post
this is one of the most easily arranged
events in the recreation field: that the cost
is small and the audience practically
guaranteed. since thousands of ihdivid-
uals. whether hobbyists or not themselves.
want to see the hobbies of othier‘ipeOple.

 

The hobby show has a strong appeal
for people who are no longer young

with suggestions under each were set up as eligible
for entry in the show :—

Natural History. Rocks, minerals, sea shells,
woods, and colored microscope slides

Collections. Antiques, stamps, glass and china-
ware, old-paper money, first editions, dolls, luster
pitchers, historical papers, perfume bottles, post—
marks, buttons, and china dogs

Creative Art. Paintings, etchings, modeling

Handcraft. Pine needle
basketry, bookbinding, fur-
niture, and rugs

Models.

racing cars

Camera Cratt. Colored

movies, enlargements, photo-
micrography
(Continued on page 367)

337

Birdhouses and

Columbia's Armory—A Recreation Center

OLI‘MBIA’S new Armory has
become the center of com-
munity activities, the meet-

ing and training point for mili-
tary groups, the oHicial head-
quarters for local, state, and na-
tional agencies, and the city's

Military groups and necessities of
course have first call on the new
National Guard Armory at Columbia,
Missouri. But recreation activities
of many kinds have graduall invaded
this impressive building an made it
the center of the city's indoor rec-
reation program during the winter.

couples and sets going through
the intricate movements that are
a part of all genuine square
dances.

From the stringed instruments
of a radio entertainment quar-
tet come the strains of “Turkey

play center for indoor activities.

Among the first agencies to take up residence in
the building was the Red Cross, with classes meet-
ing several times a week. The Office of Civilian
Defense with its many committees took over much
of the office space and quarters were provided for
the local tire rationing board and the consumer

purchasing otiice.
Recreation activities include a full basketball

schedule during the winter months with twenty-
seven adolescent and adult teams competing. Con-
tests in athletics and music are held. A recent Old
Fiddlers’ Contest attracted 800 people. The entire
community is invited to attend these events and
urged to take part in the program.

Square Dancing Popular

One of the most popular activities is square.

dancing in the ballroom and basketball court. This
revival of the old-fashioned square dance was an
experiment made by W. C. Harris, Director of
Recreation Activities, but such a response came in
the form of capac-
ity crowds that the
event has been re-
peated once each
month and is now
one of the most
popular in a long
list of activities
sponsored by the
Ifin Recreation
Lemmission.

( )n nights when
the dances are
held, the crowd
begins to gather
early in the eve-
ning and the spa-
nious dance fioor is
soon occupied with
a teeming mass. of

338

in the Straw,” “Old Zip Coon,”
“Buffalo Gal,” “Leather Breeches,” and other num-

bers. The large crowd gathered to watch the
dancers soon find themselves keeping time with
the fiddler’s bow and the guitar picker’s hand, and
the hall resounds with laughter as the "caller"
directs the dancers.

The “caller’s” inexhaustible supply of “square
dance language” contains such directions and ex-
clamations as “Chase that rabbit, chase that squir-
rel, and chase that pretty gal ’round the world";
or “Dosey dough, and a little more dough, prome-
nade and on you go!” and “Ladies to the left,
gents to the right. Grab your partner and swing
all night.”

The Recreation Commission has created addi—

tional interest in the dances by offering instruction 1

on regularly appointed dates. As many as 200 have
attended these instruction periods, which have been
under the direction of the recreation activities staff,

' (Continued on page 370)

 

Recreation for Defense—

The Fourth "R" of Education

and its merits became sufficiently recognized

that the fourth “R,” namely Recreation, could
be added to the three age-old standards of Read-
ing, ’Riting, and ’Rithmetic, of our educational
systems. High schools must accept the responsi-
bility for this important “R” if they are to achieve
their full purpose. Many have already met the
issues, and others are still adjusting themselves to
the present-day needs of leisure-time training.
N ow more than ever, during a time of emergency,
is it necessary to look again at our recreation pro-
gram. Our activities must _be wholesome and
stimulating to keep our youth alert and prepared
for any eventuality.

Washington Union High School is located just
live miles from a metropolis, population about
65,000, which offers all types of commercial enter-
tainment. The students of the school come from
a twelve—mile radius and are mostly from farm
homes, and of many nationalities. About 70 per cent
of the students come to school on busses, which
means that much of the recreation activity must be
carried on at noontime. Because of the present tire
shortage it is difficult to get students together in
the evening, and busses leave soon after school
closes in the afternoon. In spite of these handi-
caps the school calendar has been filled with rec-
reation activities successfully carried out. Projects
were sponsored by the students because they them-
selves wanted to take part- in the activities for the
enjoyment and satisfaction which these opportuni-
ties offered.

IT HAS NOT BEEN many years since recreation

Events on the Program

The major events on the program, to outline it
briefly, included: four three-
act plays and an evening of
one-act plays; an “Oppor-
tunity Night” in which any
student in school could take
part and compete for prizes;
an Operetta; a band show of
musical entertainment and
skits ; five student body dances
(which can be developed more

Schools are adding a fourth "R" to the
Reading. 'Riting. and 'Rithmetic of
our educational systems. As an example
of what is being done to train for lei-
sure in defense times. a brief summary
of what one comparatively small high
school is doing shows how the leisure-
time program is functioning in our
high school today as a builder of morale
and a defense against war hysteria.

By CLIFTON D. BOYACK

Washington Union High School
Fresno. California

in the future) ; live skating parties sponsored by
various clubs and classes; two snow trips; two ice
skating parties; three theater parties; two stage
production trips; a dress-up day; three banquets;
two fashion shows; two play days; a student body
carnival; and a May Day celebration about which
more will be said later.

The Athletic Program. This program is in addi-
tion to all the athletic events which also are a part
of the recreation program of the school. The ath-
letic program, in addition to the regular school and
county leagues (now temporarily suspended be-
cause of the rubber shortage), offers class and
club leagues for both boys and girls carried on at
noontime. The seasonal major sport is used for
the competition, scores are kept by classes and
teams, and suitable awards are given at the end
of definite periods. This program greatly helps to
keep our youth lit and alert.

Clubs. Club work is another recreation iield in
which hundreds of students in the school are being
trained to develop wholesome leisure-time activi-
ties and leadership. The twenty clubs cover awide
variety of interests and all offer definite training
in activities that can, and no doubt will, be carried
on after the students leave school. Many, such as
first aid, are new clubs growing out of the emer-
gency. Many others have taken on definite de—
fense projects. One sells bonds
and stamps; another collects
scrap iron; another, tin, etc.
An example of the recrea-
tional type is the Dramatic
Club which offers the forty
odd members opportunities
to learn about and practice
make-up, scenery design,
painting and construction,

339

n

340 RECREATION FOR DEFENSE—THE FOURTH “R” OF EDUCATION

stage lighting and sound effects, as well as the art
of acting.

These activities are carried on outside of regu-
lar class instruction and draw in many students
who cannot take'classes in these fields for one
reason or another. The debate club is another
example where students are offered participation
in debate, extemporaneous speaking, and oratory.
Many good discussions and debates have been built
around national war problems. Reading clubs,
arts and craft clubs, and many others, offer means
of self-expression on a voluntary basis which is
substantial training for future leisure hours and
helps maintain morale during the present emer-
gency. Other clubs are equally well meeting the
needs of the modern youth in a war-conscious
world.

A few figures may also give some idea as to the
number of students who are taking advantage of
the fourth “R” activities to better prepare them
for citizenship. There are

about 300 memberships in
clubs, all following their
present interests and also
branching out into new in-
terests by learning about

new activities of their own
and other clubs, and uniting
with other clubs in drives
and activities for national
defense. In the dramatic and
musical productions there are well over 400 stu-
dents who have taken part in recreational activi-
ties. True, there is some duplication, but when we
consider that from forty to eighty students are
active in one project and that nearly every project
is sponsored by a different group in the school, the
actual participation reaches a majority of the stu-
dent body in the dramatic and music lines alone.
N oonday skits and clubs already mentioned will
bring in another large group not taking part in
the dramatic and music programs, but who are
receiving defense recreation training. Many others
are brought into Recreation by the intraschool and
class sports program, to say nothing of the large”
number who are taking part in the. activities of
the teams which represent the school in organized
leagues of the major and minor sports. :When .we
consider that the school enrollment is about 450
students, the afonenamed activitiesand numbers
given show that a great majority of' students are
being reachedat least in one line of Recreation and
many of them in several. Thus they have much

"Recreation and Education are twin roots
of the tree of life. The tempo and char-
acter of modern life make both roots in-
dispensable to the good life of the tree.
from the point of view of either individual
or community well-being. We educators
are too guilty of overlooking the values in
recreation. Do you recreation leaders pass

by educational needs?"—Fred A. Moore.

less time to worry and fret about war trouble or
hysteria.

School Carnival and May Day. The two biggest
recreation items on the school program, which
really show how firmly the fourth “R” is estab-
lished in the school and the effect of the emergency
upon them, have purposely been left to the last.‘
They are the school carnival and May Day. Onl
these two big “R” days every member of the
school takes part on some committee to help put
on the program.

The carnival is quite the typical affair with '
booths, games of skill, vaudeville shows, and a'
carnival dance and bonfire program to add the fin- '
ishing touches to the day. More need not be said I
about it.

The 'May Day, however, is unique both from:
the standpoint of the celebration itself and the rec-
reational opportunities it offers to teach real
Americanism. The eleven grammar schools of the
high school district join with
the high school, and the en-
tire countryside looks for-
ward to the May Day as a
grand get-together and fun-
fest —— young America play-
ing together.

The high school band,
after the color guards, lead
the parade of more than
1,000 school children each
carrying an 'American flag. This is followed by a
mass flag salute and pledge of allegiance. The crowd
then sings “America,” followed by the band’s
playing of “The Star-Spangled Banner.” The Mag
queen, attended by twelve girls in light blue attire,
is then crowned with proper ceremony and eleven
May poles are danced simultaneously, all in re
white, and blue colors, for the pleasure of t1
queen. This offers a sight long to be remembered
Nearly one hundred dancers swing and turn to
gether that America may remain strong within.

After the coronation ceremonies and program '
the morning, people visit the school’s classroom
exhibit’é,‘many of which are the results of recrea
tion activities'and defense projects. Perhaps fore
most among the exhibits motivated by the recrea
tional philosophy is the Hobby Show'in which a
the students in the school have an opportunity to
exhibit their hobbies and exchange ideas with fel-
low schoolmates, parents, and _community.mem-
hers. Here the model airplanqdisplay shows the

(Continued on page 369)

   
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
    

Archery in the War Services Program

HE WORD “Fistmele,”
Twhich almost disappeared i”

from the King’s English
shortly after the era of the
famous archer, Robin Hood,
linds itself again popular.

Since the turning of thou-
sands of men into armed forces
and the concentration of work-
ers in defense areas, every recreation executive
has been faced with the problem of experimenting
with new methods of physicalrecreation. This is
particularly true in the far west in 'the vicinity of
Stockton, a large city in the California Inland Em-
pire. With the stationing of some ten to fifteen
thousand service men and defense workers near
this community—a wholly unprepared for and
additional recreation responsibility— recreation
supervisors began turning back the pages of his-
tory for variations in recreation activities.

The revival of the word “Fistmele” and its ap-
plication is due
chiefly to a dis-
covery made by a
supervisor on a
local War Services
Recreation Pro-
gram of WPA.
This supervisor’s
hobby happened to
be archery. He
noticed the long,
straight grain in
shovel and pick
handles which had
been condemned
by safety inspect—
ors as being no
longer usable as
part of these tools.
Further examina- .
tion disclosed that I.
these handles were i I
made from second
growth hickory.
Following through
with his observa-
tion regarding the
shovel and pick

By JAMES C. ARNOLD

Mr. Arnold. who reports here a dis-
covery which is helping greatly to
popularize the playing of archery by
service men. is Assistant Supervisor.

WPA War Services Section. Recre-

ation Program. Stockton. California.

handles, this supervisor took
two such handles and spliced
them in the manner followed
in making an ordinary bow.
The bow was then shaped and
put in the tiller. When com—
pleted, this bow was given a.
rigid test and its performance
. and durability were so excep—
tional that immediate steps were taken to secure
all available handles no longer usable for any other
purpose. A number of test bows were made, each
proving as efficient as the original model.

The discovery of this bow material meant that
archery equipment, hitherto prohibitively expen— ,
sive for many people, could now be made with
almost no cash outlay. After several dozen bows
had been made and tested by use, the idea was
passed on to other recreation centers where suc-
cessful archery programs are being conducted with

(Continued on page 366) i

.. .. (7‘ a .... _ .
 . I

.5 .

_ J

. r‘ .

. ' :

. .

r

 

Urban Planning For War and Peace

think we must

be clear about in
dealing with the plan-
ning that is to take
place in the future is that we are not faced with
any mere national emergency. . . . We are ap-
proaching a period where we have to accept the
fact that a world-wide stabilization is coming
about. There will be a stabilization in the inter-
national field which will enable us, if the democra-
fcies are successful, to create the world unity
toward which all our good institutions tend today,
and there will be a'similar economic and social
stabilization within each country so that the goods
of life which have been so beautifully produced
and so imperfectly distributed in the past can at
last be distributed with regard to the needs of the
human beings all over the world and in every
country.

“Democracy must not be associated with medi-
ocrity. Democracy must not be content to live a
timid life. . . . There are great problems before us
today; particularly problems that concern the de-
velopment of cities. At the close of this world
catastrOphe we must mobilize the energies which
we are now beginning to devote to war, to the

"T HE FIRST thing I

tasks of peace, with no less fervor, with no less I.

boldness, with no less willingness to face matters
of life and death, and to go through with a pro-
gram designed to promote a better life.

“Now, what is our real problem in the design
of cities? Our real problem is to create a life-
sustaining environment for the entire population.
. . . We have to create biological health and sound
social conditions in the very center of our cities,
so that the gardens and the parks, the open spaces,
the places where people can
raise flowers, or even raise
potatoes when necessary,
are not thirty or forty
miles away. Gardens must
be back again where they
were in the beginning of
the history of Philadel-
phia, right behind the doors
of the houses. We must
rebuild again, so that rural
sights and rural opportuni-

342

Some extracts trom an address by Lewis
Mumford published in the l942 Report
of the Fairmount Park Art Association

"While our present war ettort must take pre-
cedence over all other activities. planning
to meet our park and recreational require-
ments must continue to receive consideration.
The inspiration experienced through visiting
the Nation's scenic wonders and historic
shrines instills a love of country and main- of
tains morale. and participation in recrea-
tional activities is vital to the welfare of the
people. both military and civilian."—-Hatold
L. Ickes in A Study of the Park and
Recreation Problem of the United States.

you know, between the capacity to enjoy life, t

ties will not be di-
vorced from urba
living.

“. . . There must
social cooperation . . .
the very symbol of this social cooperation must b
the family and the household.

“. . . My suggestion is that our new urban
planning after the war, and even during the war,l
must be on the basis of planning as if this were a-
new continent, so that the pecuniary institution
that we have made, and the corruption that w
have heaped up, need no longer stand in the wa;
of wholesale human improvement. We may plan'
for human life and not merely plan for pape
securities.

“. . . Today our planning must be Open plan
ning; there must be coordination; there must
order and direction so that the various parts, th
various elements of the communities will
brought together in constant relationship and con
stant contact, but the physical side of it will be th
existence of more open spaces within the citi
than any other civilization has provided.

“. . . In other words, parks and civic cente
must be multiplied many times in every large city
so that each neighborhood unit may have an or
ganic social' and political life. And so on with t
city, and so on with the region. But the centr
purpose of the city beautiful movement was
humanitarian purpose, and one which we mu
restore again and put to wider use in the no

concept of the open order of planning. .
“. . . Because there is no direct relationship,

   
    
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
   

live at high levels. to know love and friendship, an
to enjoy the values of culture—there is no nec
sary relation between t
and the amount of mono
qne happens to poss
The money may very of
be a handicap unless it '
combined with inordin
wisdom and a certain kin
discipline and self
respect.

“We must recover on
original vision of a de

(Continued on page 369)

Local Recreation Committees Active

In Communities Visited by Soldiers

HEN ON LEAVE the sol-

dier likes to go to

town. Therefore, the
recreation program within
the Army posts must be
supplemented by community
recreation activities in order
to supply the soldier’s needs
while in town.

An analysis of the experiences of the last war
made clear the need for Federal. aid in coordinat-
ing such activities. The Federal Security Admin-
istrator as Director of the Office of Defense Health
and Welfare Services is responsible for all health,
recreation and related services in Army camp com-
munities.

Local Defense Recreation Committees, working
under general coordination of the Office of De-
fense Health and \Velfare Services, are in "exist-
ence in practically all communities visited by ser-
vice men: These committees coordinate all local
outside services developed
in the community for the
men in uniform. To date
724 Defense Recreation
Committees have been or-
ganized.

Overseeing this work are
73 field recreation repre-
sentatives, who are respon-
sible for visiting communi-
ties near camps for the pur-
pose of determining needs.
Working with the local Rec-
reation Committees, the field
representatives make recom-
mendations to the Federal

\Vorks Agency for Federal
' buildings when the load
exceeds the carrying capac-
ity of the community. F

A commanding officer
who wishes to confer with
someone in the adjacent
community concerning ade-

'By CHARLES P. TAFT

The Assistant Director of the Office of
Defense Health and Welfare Services here
turns the spotlight on community
tion for service men.

printed from the July I issue of Notes on
Morale Activities, a War Dept. bulletin.

 

CHARLES P. TAFT

quate leisure-time facilities
and programs for his men
should contact the chairman
of the local Defense Recre-
ation Committee. In many
cases, that contact will re-
sult in direct working rela-
tions with those in charge
of the Defense Recreation
Building. If no committee or operations have been
set up, the officer should confer with the field rec-
reation representative.

If the community itself is unable to finance the

necessary local 'activities for service men, supple-
mentary help can be secured from the United Ser-
vice Organizations or the WPA. The Federal
Recreation Building then becomes the focal point
for the community recreation program for service
men.
The Office of Defense Health and Welfare Ser-
vices, through its Recreation Section, has 296 rec-
reation buildings in opera-
tion and in the process of
being built. Of those now
in use, 188 are being oper-
ated by the U.S.O. and the
rest by Defense Recreation
Committees and by cities.

More than 500 service
men’s clubs and centers are
being operated throughout
the country by local groups
other than U.S.O. agency
members. These rented or
municipally owned clubs are
under the supervision of
incorporated community rec-
reation committees, cities,
churches, and lodges. This
number does not include the
108 Federal buildings oper-
ated by Defense Recreation
Committees and by cities.

The U.S.O., which is the
(Continuedon page 367)

343

recrea-
This article is re- ~

for

West Hartford

EST HARTFORD has been considered one of

the most attractive residential communi-

ties in the State of Connecticut. In twenty
years the population has more than quadrupled,
and this phenomenal growth has created a de-
mand for additional facilities both from the
administrative departments and the utility com-
panics. Due to excellent town planning and
zoning restrictions, the types of developments
have not made it necessary for the town to
provide extensive recreation areas or even small
scattered ones where activities could have been
concentrated.

For a number of years the children’s recrea-
tional activities were well taken care of by the
use of school playgrounds. In 1930 the_ town
constructed a swimming pool and a club house.

In addition to this, a few tennis courts were
built and picnic facilities were expanded. The lo-
cation of this play area was in the north end of
the town and was not convenient for other areas.
In 1936 another play area was developed in the
south end of the town with practically the same
recreation facilities as the first one. This/gave the
town two swimming pools, a few tennis courts,
one fairly good baseball diamond, and a small
skating pond. In spite of these park sites, the
people of the town still believed that additional
recreation facilities were needed, especially a place
where community athletic activities could be held
and interscholastic games could be played with
the prospect of charging admission in, order to
offset the original cost and provide maintenance
over a period of several years.

In 1937 a citizens’ committee was appointed. to
investigate the needs for an enclosed athleticmeld.
The survey of the citizens’ committee revealed the

344

 

 
 

Pf?! CE

    

Par/run; . ,

4-5

./

 

FLATBUJH

 

CHART

need for such a field where all major activities
could be concentrated.

In '1940 a Department of Recreation was cre-
ated and Jacob W. Feldman was appointed as
director to work with the citizens’ committee on
this project. Although the citizens’ committee had
recommended an enclosed athletic field, there still
was a need for further information as to location,
size, costs, and type of construction. After the
necessary appropriations were made by the Fi-
nance Board, a location was finally selected ad-
jacent to the Charter Oak School, where the town
owned 'some of the land, the balance of the area
being purchased outright. The site chosen con-
sisted of about ten acres.

Mr. Feldman then interviewed high school and
college coaches and many other people whose ex-

..perience and knowledge were of considerable help

in making a preliminary comprehensive plan of an

Eleacheré

‘-
t
I.
C
In
E
t

K

C h ar/c r Oak
Scnool

LETIC FIELD
o. CONN.

um Engr

ii”

 

enclosed field. Technical information was also
gathered which Mr. Feldman turned over to the
Engineering Department for study.

With the cooperation of F. B. Chamberlin, the
town engineer, plans and specifications were
drawn. In the fall of 1941, bids were let for the
construction of the playfield, which was to be com-
pleted sometime during 1942.

Layout of Playfield

The accompanying drawing shows the layout of
the playfield. The specifications for its construc-
tion were such that ideal conditions would prevail
for any part of the play area. To accomplish this
was no easy task. The area was orginally wooded
and swampy with a high water level. The surface
soil was muck, fine sand, and soft clay; and below
the surface the high water level revealed silt,
spongy clay, and more muck. To. obtain-an area

Henry Pfeiffer Library

Mae Murray College
Jacksonville, Illinois

By P. MARTELLI
Assistant Town Engineer
West Hartford. Connecticut

with an ideal playing surface it was necessary to
design _an extensive drainage system and con-
! struct an outlet to a storm water sewer.
Due to different soil conditions that prevailed
in the sections of the country where play areas
of this type had been constructed, technical data
differed considerably, each system suiting the
particular field for which it was designed.
To overcome the drainage difficulties due to
the soil conditions which have been previously
described, about 7,000 lineal feet of drains were
installed and 5,000 cubic yards of gravel used.
The eccentricity of the location of the drains
within the football and track areas was due to
the utilization of a drain system which had -
previously been installed for the school playfield.
The pipe used was standard concrete pipe for
the large sizes and 6” porous concrete pipe for
the lateral drains. These laterals averaged about
2.5 feet deep and were surrounded with gravel
which was brought to within a few inches of the
sub-grade. The depth of the gravel and the prox-
imity of the drains in the critical play areas will
take care of the surface run-off and prevent the
water table rising above the depth of the drains.

The baseball diamond, two softball diamonds,
and the football field have, besides the lateral drains
surrounded with gravel, a layer of additional
gravel six inches in depth. This will insure rapid
seepage of surface water and will make the play
areas available for use even after a heavy rainfall.

The entire surface of the field will have six
inches of top soil and will then be seeded and
rolled. ’

Special study was made of the running track,
and after debating the technical advantages and

(Continued on page 362)
345

Play Activities for School Children

Golden Gate's Noon Activities

By NATALIE HANSEN

Golden Gate Junior High School
Oakland. California

SERIOUS PROBLEM, of many schools, is the noon
A hour. To keep the pupils occupied—espe-
cially those who do not go home for lunch,

is a difficult matter.

W’ e think we have just about solved it at Golden
Gate Junior High, Oakland, California. This year
for the first time our Principal, Mr. Roy T.
Nichols, could arrange the school program so that
the boys’ and the girls’ physical education instruc-

tors could be on duty the entire noon hour. The
boys’ director, Mr. Fred Beck, has charge of the

playgrounds. The pupils eat their lunches and then .

have free play, since during class period and after
school the required seasonal games are taught and
practiced for skill. The girls’ director has been
assigned to the auditorium. \Ve have no gym-
nasium. The auditorium is used for assemblies
and all social functions.

The noon activity organization is very simple
but embraces a number of officials; fifteen, in fact.
These officials are the three boy and the three girl
athletic managers, plus four assistants and five
check-up committee members.

Our activities carry no award system or extra
points of any type. It is entirely for the pleasure
of the hour.

The auditorium is divided as to the stage, main
fioor, and the lobby. Four pupils are on duty for
the entire week, one at each designated position.
This assignment is made up the first week of
school for the entire semester. The other officials
are not responsible on their week off, but it sur-
prises us to see how faithfully they appear and
assist the leaders of the week. The check-up com-
mittee reports when the after-
noon bell rings and collects
and packs all the supplies away.
These pupils are from the
fourth period, our first after-
noon physical education class,
so they do not miss their aca-
demic work.

346

This article and the account of the
Apparatus Play Hour which follows
appeared in the February I942 issue
of- the Service Bulletin, and are re-
printed by permission ot the National
Section of Women's Athletics of the
American Association for Health.
Physical Education. and Recreation.

The games scheduled are rotated daily. A pro-
gram is posted on the auditorium bulletin board
beside the monthly leader assignment. Somehow
our ganies have been decided by the pupils them-
selves. On Monday, volleyball; Tuesday, badmin-
ton; Wednesday, a noon dance; Thursday, paddle
tennis; and on Friday, one volleyball court and a
badminton court. Music is set up daily and those
who wish dance between the stage and the outer
volleyball lines. About sixteen or twenty dance

daily—even though the games are being played on
the main floor.

The stage has tables and chairs for such games
as regulation checkers, Chinese checkers, dart
games, and other small games of skill. These have
been donated by teachers or pupils.

The lobby has ping-pong and shufiieboard daily.
The ping-pong equipment was made by the ninth
grade boys in the shop department supervised by
Mr. Morrison Knight, shop instructor. Our shuf-
fleboard set-up was painted on the lobby floor by
the school board, according to regular requisition
order. In this way we have eliminated many items
of expense. Even the custodian has made two
games—rubber jar rings tossed at hooks o'ver
numbers. These hang on the side walls in the rear
of the auditorium and are used continually. _

So the physiological side of the pupil may not
be upset—all lunches must be eaten on the play-
grounds or in assigned rooms. The first fifteen
minutes are taken for lunches.

The managers report to the auditorium and for
five minutes we are a busy group—taking down
chairs and setting up all the equipment for the day.
The doors are opened and the pupils wander in as
they please.

No one has to come in. If anyone wishes to
come in and just sit and be an interested spectator
he is welcome.

All the pupils who have signed up the day before
are the first group at any event.
Thereafter those who wish to
play come in and sit on the
sidelines in rotation ready for
the change of teams.

We do not play for winners.
Time is an important element
at noon; so each group plays

PLAY ACTIVITIES FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN 347

for ten minutes and then re-
tires in favor of those waiting.
Thus, we give a chance to play
to more pupils and we find
they play more sincerely and
heartily. Again, we do not
choose teammates as to skill,
so beginners may be lined up
with more experienced players. This calls for
more alertness and a “try to do my best.”

We did keep attendance, just for fun, and found
for one month the figures were almost alike. The
first fifteen minutes the attendance was about one
hundred and by the end of the noon hour it was
one hundred and fifty in all. The dismissal of so
many pupils at the ring of the bell might cause
someone to believe it is a “mad rush,” but we
have not found it so.

Our district is a part of Oakland inserted be-
tween Berkeley and Emeryville, so our Principal,
Mr. Nichols, for years has tried to make the school
a community center. Most of the social affairs, to
which the younger groups go, are held at the
school. we find that our noonday activity has
become just as much a part of us as our night
dances, after-school parties, or the intramural
games on the playgrounds.

Apparatus Play l-lour for
Elementary School Children

By FRANCES JOHNSON

ANEW TYPE of body-building recreation is being
provided for Madison, Wisconsin, children
of elementary school age under a “play hour” plan
deveIOped and carried on during the school year
by women physical education majors at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin.

The play hours are held in the University
women’s gymnasium on Saturday afternoons for
seven weeks during the winter season. These ac-
tivity periods are open to both boys and girls and
they are devoted mainly to play on apparatus
which is not available in most of the elementary
schools. The activities offered include supervised
play on the climbing ropes, traveling rings, run-
ning track, horizontal ladder, window ladder, buck,
horse, swing jump, parallel bars, and tumbling
mats.

Advance registration for the play hours is held
at the various elementary schools; the cards and

The play hour project which is des-
cribed here was carried out under the
direction of Miss Katherine Cronin.
Associate Professor of Physical Edu-
cation, with Miss JohnsonI Senior
Major in Physical Education. acting
as student director for l94l-l942.

permission slips sent by the
parents are kept on file for the
entire season. Those children
attending are divided into
squads for the season on the
first day according to age,
grade in school, and friends or
playmates. Each squad is given
a color, and each child is given a tag on which is
printed his or her name and which is colored ac-
cording to the squad of which the child is a mem-
ber. Each squad has one junior or senior major
student in charge who explains the activity, assists
whenever necessary, and watches closely for the
safety 'of the participants in her group. These
“teachers” are assigned in advance by the student
director -who is responsible for the organization of
the play hours.

The squads rotate from activity to activity on
signal from the student director who allows ap-
proximately, seven minutes at each piece of appa-
ratus. The teacher in charge of each squad rotates
with her group; care is taken in assigning activi-
ties so that one group is not sent to similar activi-
ties in succession.

The last five minutes of each hour are spent in
“free play” during which period the children may
choose their activities and play at any piece of ap-
paratus. During this period, the major in charge
of a squad assigns herself to a piece of apparatus
for free play supervision and stays there for the
remainder of the hour.

The junior and senior majors are responsible
for putting up the apparatus according to a pre-
arranged floor plan and also for putting away
equipment at the end of the hour.

Safety rules are simple; they are carefully ex-
plained to the children and rigidly enforced:

I. All activity and talking must stop when the
student director’s whistle sounds. Everybody
must have both feet on the fioor and listen to
the director.

2. There must be no running as squads change
activities.

3. Each player must remain with his own squad.

4. Each player must wait before starting until
the player ahead of him has completed his turn.

5. There must be no playing on a piece of appa-
ratus unless a teacher is supervising.

There are also specific safety rules posted on-

each piece of apparatus as reminders to the teach-
‘ers who are responsible for informing the children.

(Continued on page 364)

 

Havana's Recreation Program,

UBA, OUR near neighbor to
the south, has recently

made a beginning in the
development of recreation facilities and programs.
Through the interest of President Batista, work
was completed in 1940 on a play area in Havana
that is to serve as a model for the development of
others in Havana and throughout Cuba.

Next to the Malecon, Havana’s famous ocean
drive, lay an ancient ruined battery. About 52,000
square meters of property in this beautiful setting
were made available, and through the expenditure
of $200,000 there was developed the Parque Juve-
nil Deportivo Jose Marti. This recreation area is
one of the best equipped areas of its kind in the
western hemisphere.

Facilities. The administration and club build-
ing contains administrative offices, storage rooms,
locker rooms, meeting rooms, a completely
equipped first aid room, and a beautifully ap-
pointed library. From its wide, shaded balconies
every part of the sport field can be seen.

Two swimming pools have
been constructed, one a 50-
meter pool for the advanced
swimmers, and the other a
smaller pool for beginners.
These are salt water pools
with the most modern equip-
ment for pumping in sea

348

By REY-NOLD E. CARLSON

National Recreation Association

Our readers, we believe, will be very
much interested in the statement of
obiectives given here. Unfortunately
it has been impossibleI in translat-
ing the material, to give the exact
meaning. but as far as possible we
have tried to capture the spirit ex-
pressed in the purposes set forth.

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
  

water, and dressing rooms to
accommodate 1,000 children.

These additional facilities are
also provided: a wading pool; three basketball
courts (outdoor wooden floor courts) ; two hand-
ball courts; a tennis court; four volleyball courts;
a running track; a concrete bicycle track; a con-
crete roller skating rink; a baseball field; a soft-
ball field; and a young children’s playground with
apparatus.

Administfation and Finance. The funds for th!
construction were all provided by the national gov-
ernment, which also makes an annual appr0pria-
tion of approximately $30,000. The area is a
ministered by the Department of Physical 3.
Mental Culture for Youth of the Corporativ-e
Council of Education, Sanitation, and \\’e1fare. D
Gustavo Adolfo Bock, Chief of the Department
Physical and Mental Culture for Youth, who 11
charge of this project and all other recreation d-e
velopments of the republic, is largely responsi
for the planning of this area and of other suc
areas pr0posed in Cuba.

The staff at the Parque con
sists of the following: a di
rectOr; a basketball instructor
a track instructor; a baseb
and softball instructor; two
swimming instructors; fou

(Continued on page 363)

Nature Activities in Nebraska’s Camps

By RUTH M. FLEMING
Na’rure Counselor
WPA Recreation Camps

"Berries red. have no dread!
Berries white. poisonous sight!
Leafle’rs three, quickly flee!"

Ht's A GUIDE BOOK warns young Nebraska
Tcampers against the ever-present poison ivy on

the nature trails. The book in which this warn-
ing appears is one of a series written by the coun-
selors who travel throughout the state during the
summer conducting the nature program at Nebras-
ka’s WPA recreation camps for boys and girls.

During the summer of 1941 the girls’ counselor
visited six camps in various parts of the state. At
each stop a special program was worked out to
explain the mysteries of nature lore to the young
campers. The programs were varied to meet the
needs of the various camp sites.

The summer’s work began at Camps Harding,
Oakwood and Sheldon several “weeks before the
official openings. At each of these camps the trails
offered possibilities for fascinating nature stories,

since all were located in wooded areas along a ,

river or creek with prairies and pastures adjoining.

At two of the camp sites a trail was --

with each special feature jotted down,br_ie:fly inja
notebook. These notes were later expanded and
‘ compiled into the nature trail guide books. Simple
silkscreen covers were made for them in the craft

rooms, and campers were provided with books for
I use on the trail. At the end of the camp the chil-
dren took them home as souvenirs. .

The third camp site boasted a bird nest and a
tree-shrub-and-vine trail. Some of the .favorite
actors on this trail were the jack-in-the-pulpit
showing its green spadix.down near the bridge,
the bluebirds, and a phoebe building its nest on
the rafters of the craft shop. -

At Camp Harding rain changed our plans, and
wet weather activities had to be substituted for
the regular program. On 'hikes between showers
the girls found the woods full of bright red, yel-
low, orange, brown and white fungus clinging high
up on the, tree trunks or almost buried by grass
and rotting logs. The beauty of_ form and color in
these elfin stools, tree brackets, lichen cups and

bird nest fungi so captivated the hikers that they
were collected with layers of velvety green moss,
seedling plants and stones and taken carefully to
the craft room._, Here they were “planted” in
candy boxes and transformed into woodsy gardens.

The campers at Harding soon learned that they
must rise early if they were to see the Nebraska
day at its best. Often they were rewarded by
catching a glimpse of a modest gray phoebe dart—
ing out for an insect or of the sap sucking wood-
pecker and his geometrically straight rows of sap
wells. Then again they would hear the rich purl-
ing notes of the bluebirds or the lonely whir-e-e-ep
of the great-crested flycatcher.

One day the girls discovered hundreds of doo-
dlebug traps under all the hillside cabins. Spoons,
tin cans, and basins were promptly borrowed from
the cooks and the little ant-lions with their fine
dirt traps were “spooned up” into new tin homes.
A caravan of ants spotted near-by was captured
to encourage the little hump-backed insects to dig
out new funnel traps.

The next camp stop was at Sheldon. Here an-
other guide book was written for the recreation
campers and incidentally for a church camp which
we later served for one day. Each morning the
girls and counselors of two cabins took their guide
books and followed the nature trails until nearly
one hundred girls had had an early morning hike
and a breakfast cooked out of doors.

During the previous week, the boy campers had
had a search for a fabulous bird. When the girls
heard of this, they asked for a real nature hunt.
A search was arranged and a marshmallow camp-
fire awarded to the girls who first spotted the
funnel traps of the ant-lions.

Star Ceremonial

At all the camps .we tried to interest the girls in
the stars by inviting two or three cabins to be-
come star gazers on evenings when the sky was
clear. A starbook was given to each cabin before
its turn, came,

At Niobrara Camp, Plum Creek Camp, and

349

350 NATURE ACTIVITIES IN NEBRASKA’S CAMPS

Chadron we attempted a “Star Ceremonial.” The
ideas for such a program came from our experi¢
ence with a large Star Party several years ago in
Omaha and from the booklet, Star Ceremonial by
Mrs. Cora Ling Sherbum, technician of Nebraska
\VPA recreation laboratory.

The star locations of ten summer constellations
were marked out on an open hillside or prairie.
Stars were represented by candles inserted in large
corrugated cardboard or by rocks near which girls
stood ready with flashlights. A white-robed North
Star carrying lighted sparklers led the campers to
the site singing “Follow the Gleam.” Poems,
songs, and a talk were next
on the program while three
girls for each group of stars
—the Storyteller, the Lighter,
and the Star Finder—found
their constellations and sat
down on blankets behind
them.

The demonstration began
with the Big Dipper, for it
had been noised around carnp
that we were serving stars
from the Big Dipper that
night. First the Lighter went
the rounds either lighting the
candles or giving the signal
for the flashlights to come on.
Then the Finder pointed out
the constellation in the sky
while the Storyteller gave
some story or fact about her
group of stars.

As the program neared the
close all the campers sang “The Star-Spangled
Banner.” Then a few voices took up “Day Is
Done” while other voices echoed it in the distance.
As the song died away on the hillside, somewhere
a bugler sounded taps.

 

Bird Lore

At all the camps we aroused the interest of
many campers by having them try their skill in
recognizing birds on an electric “Ask It Basket”
panel holding colored bird cards. Many budding
naturalists were surprised to discover that it was
fun to learn the color, call, and habits of the birds.
' The hanging nests of the Baltimore oriole, the
newly-mown hay nests of its darker cousin, the red
ear muffs of the lark sparrow, and the constant
skimming of thousands of cliff swallows remind us

 

Pictures of birds native to the dis-
trict are mounted on a rustic bulletin
board protected by a small root

of our two weeks’ camp at Niobrara State Park.
A star party and conservation talk by the park
superintendent and an early morning breakfast
near “The Bass-wood Hotel,” where myriads of
wood-nymph butterflies had come for their annual
convention, were the outstanding events at Nio-
brara.

Nature and historical trails marked by Miss
Ruth Moon here and at Chadron State Park were -
used and enjoyed by all the early morning hikers. .
For the half-mile trail harboring about twenty-two.
bird nests and the tree-shrub-and-vine trail at
Camp Oakwood, both boy and girl camps were
indebted to Mr. Frank Shoe--l
maker, naturalist for the boys
camps. The first boy campersI
at Oakwood had fenced off aI
space where a towhee’s nest
lay hidden in the grass under
a sheltering seedling elm tree.
The campers watched the.
feeding and care of the birds:
for two weeks until on the"!
last night of our camp the
towhees were captured, pos-
sibly by a skunk.

The ever-present calls 0
“witch-i-tee,” “witch-i-tee’
from the black-masked Mary
land yellowthroats, the “dick-
cis-sel” of the miniatur
meadow larks and the path-e
tic squeak of the wood pewe
became part of the bird lor
at Camp Plum Creek. T
girls who camped here on t
sands of the Platte River bed spent many of the'
hikes hunting for the sneak thief broom rape pla
which “sponges” its living off the roots of t
cockleburr plants.

The noisy pinon jays in the pines, the restle
redstarts in the lakeshore willows, and the mirac
lous tree boring by the ovipositors of the ichne
mon fiies which deposit their parasites upon tr
borers—all this is in store for those returning
Chadron State Park this year.

    
  
 
    
   
   
   
   
  

Bird Shrines

During the last two years many outdoor bir
shrines have been erected across the state fro
Omaha to Alliance. The shrines have helped t I
arouse interest in bird lore at all of Nebraska’

(Continued on page 370) l

l

Family Nights at Community Centers

N FEBRUARY 5, 1942,
O the Indianapolis De-
partment of Public
Parks sponsored a family
night at Christian Park
Community Center. It was

the Department’s initial at—
tempt to bring the people of

For the material presented in this article we
are indebted to J. P. Rooney. Assistant Di-
rector ot Recreation. Department of Public
ParksI Indianapolis; to Herman HolidayI Di-
rector of Northwestern Community Center;
and to Fanchon FattigI in charge of Chris-
tian Park Community Center. Recreation
workers will be especially interested in not-
ing the methods of organization used in de-
veloping the programs at these two centers.

was made quite clear that
anyone interested in attend-
ing the meetings of the Plan-
ning Committee could, and
that his assistance would be
welcome. At the first meet-
ing a nominating committee
appointed by the director of
the Center selected two

a community together in an
affair arranged for the en—
tire family, and it was a success.

Organization for the event—an essential in its
success—was carefully thought through. Many peo-
ple of the community were invited to sit in with
the planning committee. Parents were interested
as a result of a previously elected Youth Council,
and the principal of the near-by school gave splen-
did cooperation by sending notices to every parent
who had children in school and by urging former
students to attend. She herself attended and par-
ticipated. The planning committee, numbering
thirty-five people, was composed of entire families
so that the viewpoint of all age groups might be
secured. There were three boys, three girls, sev-
enteen women, and twelve men.

Throughout the planning it

While their parents playI the children

enioy storytelling and other activities

nominees for election by the
group as chairman of the committee. At this meet-
ing the events for the first family night were
planned and dates were selected for two special
nights to follow in March and April.

The young people representing the Youth Coun-
cil volunteered to take charge of the progressive
game room. The chairman of the committee was
appointed by the Grand Chairman, and he in turn
selected his own committee members including
several who were not members of the Youth Coun-
cil. The game room was left entirely in their hands
and was managed with great success. This com-
mittee also chose two mothers to assist them in
getting together the necessary materials, and two
fathers were invited to super-
vise the game room during the

 

351

352 ' FAMILY NIGHTS AT COMMUNITY CENTERS

evening of family night. The fathers in turn placed
four additional men on the committee with the
consent of the chairman, and these took turns
being on duty in the game room.

The Grand Chairman selected a family to be in
charge of the reception committee. They in turn
selected their own committee of six families who
represented each district and were well acquainted
in the neighborhood.

A ways and means committee was also selected
to supervise the layout of the house and to take
responsibility for anything not covered by the
other committees. This committee, it was found,
was not vitally necessary and its duties should
have been absorbed by the other committees.

Facilities

The west room upstairs measuring 2I’ x 16’ was
designated as the progressive game room, and
games were placed around
the walls of the room. A
chart for first, second, and
third place was hung on the
door. This was changed all
through the evening as
scores came in from the
participants.

The upstairs east room,
which also measures 21’ x
16’, became an art class for
the small children, alternated
with storytelling. Since it was near February 14th,
the children made valentines with materials fur-
nished by the craft department.

Table tennis was played on two tables in the
room, connecting the east and west rooms, which
measures 24’ x 18’. Chairs for spectators were
placed around the walls and this room was super-
vised by those in charge of the game room.

The office downstairs, 21’ x 16’, was opened as
a lounge and two card tables were placed at one

end of the room. Wicker furniture provided com-
fortable seating.

The auditorium, 60’ x 45’, was the room: in
which the other activities were held. The guests
were greeted in the outer center entrance room
and directed to the different points of interest.
They were also given cards on whigh to write
their names and pin on. as a means of getting
acquainted. Chairs were placed in the auditorium
before the beginning of the program in .positiog
for community singing. This proved to be a very

The plan of leadership at Christian Com-
munity Center, according to its promoters,
proves the value of neighborhood commit-
tees in planning and following through'
and the importance of using volunteers in
actual group leadership. "It means more
time and effort." says Mr. RooneyI "but
the dividends are large. And this year.
more than everI with personnel and budgets
shrinlting and costs risingI public recrea-
tion must use all community resources."

i'and who directed games and musical mixers.

. I
popular ice-breaker. A temporary cloakroom was

added in the basement by installing two large racks. I

The Program

In addition the upstairs activities which oc-
cttpied the time of the majority of younger peo-
ple, a program designed chiefly for adults was I
conducted in the auditorium. This consisted of
community singing, a short talk on civilian de-
fense. a musical mixer, a grand march, square‘
dancing, fun contests, and social dancing.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
  

Approximately fifty children from three to ten
years of age remained happily in the art and story-
telling groups while their parents were in the audi-
torium. Music for dancing was provided by an
Hawaiian orchestra which volunteered its services.
\Ve found, however, that since the majority of
adults preferred waltzing and the orchestra played
only currently popular music, most of the adults
. watched while the younger
people danced.

About fifty boys and girl
(aged ten to sixteen) took
part in table tennis, 150
boys and girls (ten to six-
teen) enjoyed the gam
room, while the card table
were monopolized by young
people from fourteen t
eighteen. Auditorium activi-
_- ties for adults were very
successful. Of the approximately 300 adults wh
attended, seventy-five took part in dancing an
musical mixers. Many men participated in th
fun contests.

It is interesting to note the sources from whic
our volunteer workers came. Our leader of com
munity singing was secured by contact with tl
Recreation Committee at Civilian Defense Head
quarters; our storyteller came from the Civ'
Theater of Indianapolis; our art instructor fro
the John Herron Art School; our leader for squar
dancing and pianist came from the neighborhood
our orchestra from the Indianapolis Conservator
of Music; and our speaker from Civilian Defen
Headquarters. All committee workers were fron
the neighborhood.

Professional workers consisted of the genera
staff of the house, which included the director an
\VPA play leader, a custodian, and one worke
from the Department who is head of special event

FAMILY NIGHTS AT COMMUNITY CENTERS 353

Write-ups pre-
pared by the di—
rector concerning
the event were
placed in neigh—
borhood papers
and in one city-
wide paper. An
announcement was
sent home in the
weekly school bul-
letin through the
courtesy of the
principal. The best
publicity, however,
was by word of
mouth.

Some Happy
Outcomes

As outcomes of
the event, the fol—
lowing may be
listed:

A fathers’ committee was formed to supply in-
struction and supervision in our gymnasium closed
because no paid worker was available. The com-
mittee has proved competent and successful.

An increase in our bi-monthly square dancing
group due to the successful introduction of these
dances at family night. The class grew from an
average attendance of twenty per session to fifty.

On our second family night a refreshment com-
mittee aided by the Youth Council sold soft drinks,
popcorn, and chances on a cake. Penny candy was
also a good seller. The first deposit in the Youth
Council treasury was the profit from this sale.
This fund is to be expanded for the benefit of the
Community Center under the sponsorship of the
Youth Council and the parents backing this or-
ganization.

Our neighborhood has become acquainted with
many recreation activities with which they were
previously unfamiliar. Many families newly estab-
lished in the neighborhood and employees in near-
by defense plants were brought into the Commu-
nity Center for the first time through family night.

Play Nights at Northwestern Center

At Northwestern Center which is also main-
tained by the Indianapolis Park Department, play
nights, or family nights, are planned especially for
adults. The results of efforts to secure adult par-"

 

ticipation have been very encouraging. This play
night is sponsored by the Federation of Civic Clubs
of North Indianapolis, an organization composed
of five community clubs with a total membership
of about one thouSand. The program is planned
by a committee from the organization working
with staff members of the community center. Each
person on the committee directs some activity on
the program. Church clubs, social organizations,
and community institutions are invited to help
sponsor family nights, and every effort is being
put forth by the community groups to encourage
the activity.

Four committees are responsible for planning an
evening’sentertainment. These are committees on
publicity, activities, program, and equipment. The
members of these committees assume complete re-
sponsibility for the duties they are to perform. The
committees have one joint meeting when ideas and
suggestions are exchanged and discussed. Mis-
takes in previous programs are analyzed and sug-
gestions offered to insure success in the future.

The publicity committee is appointed by the
Federation president and the community center
director. Announcements are sent to the news-
papers, parent-teacher associations, and to Radio
Station \VIBC, which makes the announcements
at one o’clock daily. The publicity committee is in

(Continued on page 368)

Spoojng in Everyday Life

PRACTICE that invari-
A ably yields interesting,

sometimes thrilling,
results is that of "spooring,"
and it is to be regretted that
this art is rapidly becoming
a lost one. In city streets,
just as surely as on a coun-
try road, it is an exercise
that can make you a much
more observant person and
may prove of inestimable
value. Much can be seen on
a road after the rains, espe-
cially early in the morning
before sufficient traffic has come along to obliterate
the marks left by insects and animal life, and there
is scope for the imagination in trying to recon-
struct their movements. i

it isn't possible for the

‘developments, iust as

spoor correctly is

After a little practice it is possible to discover
people’s occupations by careful observation of a
few characteristics, by their clothes, by some idio-
syncrasy of speech. Even if a sailor is not breezy
in the popularly supposed way, he will generally
betray himself by some unexpected nautical tech-
nicality. One always knows a compositor by an
unmistakable roughness and dirtiness of the thumb
and fingers of the right hand, a result of continual
handling of type. To a person farming, spooring
often solves difficult mysteries. Eggs- and chickens
may have a strange way of vanishing, and an ex-
amination of the signs on the ground may enable
one to trace the culprits.

There is much to commend spooring to the city
motorists in the country.
The ability to draw de-
ductions from little ob-
served signs will often save
the motorist many miles
of needless travel down
wrong roads. The ability
to identify makes of cars
is also a desirable accom-
plishment. Certain types of
cars can be identified by
the types of tires fitted.
When it seems impossible
to find any sign of wheel-

354

malrers. Note how some
through snow while others

snow conditions affect

By W. L. SPEIGHT

Mr. SpeightI of Cape Town, urges spooring
as a hobby and tells us that even though

follow this fascinating pursuit in the bush
or other wild regions of South Africa, city
streets may provide the setting for this
activity. "It is to be regretted," he says,
"that spooring is rapidly becoming one
of the lost arts. Yet even in these days
of motor cars, radios and other scientific

unscientific past, the ability
of great

The study of animal tracks in snow is a fas-
cinating one. "Anyone who has eyes to see,"
Dr. E. Laurence Palmer has said, "must notice
the record written in the snow by creatures
that make their way across it." "When you
are walking. snowshoeing. or skiing through
field and wood,” still another naturalist ad-
vises, "spend some time following and study-

ing traclrs. Observe how tracks betray their

and consider their respective foot structures
and body weights. Note, tooI how varying

marks, one may safely as-
sume that the car is very.
old. Some really accom--'
plished Spoorers hold that
they can by these marks
describe not only the tem-
perament and driving abili-
ties of the motorist, but also!
the sex, and sometimes the
probable load carried.

In Spooring human be-
ings, the bare-footed spoor
is the most interesting, but
we can learn much by ob-
servation of boot or shoe
marks. Such spoor of the most massive and strong-
willed woman remains of delicate shape when
compared with that of the weakest and most ef-
feminate man. Boot and shoe spoor have many
idiosyncrasies. Age of sole is generally told by
the clearness of the heel and the toe-marks. Rub-
ber heels or tips simplify identification. If th
soles are new there is a clear toe-mark, new sole
being less flexible than old. By comparing the siz
of the feet with the length of the stride we cai
determine accurately the height of the person, an
comparison of the depth of the indentations wi
give approximate weight.

maiority of us to

  
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
    
   
 
 
 
  
  

much as in the
to read a
value.'I

Animal spooring is difficult. Only the eXperi
enced hunter with a wide knowledge of the habit
and characteristics of animals can depend up
achieving efficient results. To the person wh
visits wild regions, the study of animal habits
the signs they leave is of great value. Size an

shape of the spoor, couple

with a few other mark

generally enable one t
v identify any sort of wil

animal. The waterbuc
gives itself away by
'blunt-toed spoor. When
spoor of one animal mii
gles with that of anothe
greater difficulties ari
yet these can be inter
preted with practice an
by careful study.

( C oanued on page 362)

animals move easily
struggle laboriously,

their activities."

Community Activities

in Housing Developments

IN HOUSING PROJECTS, as in any neighborhood,

people get together to, do the things they like. Whether in a Virginia, Kentucky, or

They form clubs for civic betterment, for sew- T . t . hb h th . F
ing for the Red Cross, for repairing furniture, and exas prolec I “9'9 05 5 are e" U"

for just being sociable. Like all Americans, hous—

ing project residents are joiners. local authority, attributes this record to two
Even war workers, after a hard day on the pro— factors:
duction line, aren’t too tired to get together and “First, the vigilance of the housing manager and
play, In Swanson’s Homes, Portsmouth, Virginia, cooperation between tenants and management.
for instance, the afternoon shift from the Navy “Second, the general community Spirit developed
Yard has set up a social program to {it the odd through the extensive community activities pro-
hours when they are off work. Their Morning gram.”
Men’s Club operates an outdoor sports program Merrimack Park residents, who are sailors and
from II A. M. to I P. M., and, after work, they have shipbuilders and their families, are also pleased
parties, dances, fish fries, and other social activities With the community feeling their activities have
from midnight to 3 A.M. helped to create. One of them writes:
“I’ve owned my own home and I’ve lived in a
community ACtiVitieS Pay DiVidendS number of communities, but I wouldn’t trade my
Housing managers do not restrict these activi- home in Merrimack Park for any I’ve ever known

ties on the part of
tenants. They have
found that these
little clubs, in addi-
tion to their other
benefits, often pay
the project dollars
and cents divi-
dends. ,

For instance, in
Merrimack Park,
Norfolk, Virginia,
only $12.59 has
been defaulted on
m o r e t h a n
$119,000 in rents
during the thirteen
months ending
April 30. Law-
rence Cox, execu-
tive director of the

Play groups care
for the children
of war workers at

Merrimack Park in
Norfolk, Virginia

 

COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES IN HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS

any place else. Life is more
interesting here, and I feel
a part of it all.”

Tenants Volunteer

Fifty tenants, war work-
ers and their wives, are
volunteer leaders of clubs

Tenants at Blue Grass ParkI Lexington. Ky..
work in the proiect craft shops repairing
donated toys for distribution to the needy

Three hundred war workers and their families
live at Avion Village. Grand Prairie. Texas.
Theythemselves arranged the program dedicat-
ing the terrace outside the community house.

and other activities. They
receive training from and
work under the supervision
of professional employees of
the Norfolk Health Depart-
ment, the City Recreation
Bureau, the VVPA Defense

(Continued on page 363)

 

Radio in the Drama Program

T THE annual

A election meet-

ing of the

Northern California Drama

Association held in January,

1941, it was proposed that the

Association form a class or

group of members interested

in various phases of radio
production. This plan was ap—
proved, and the first meeting
of the new group was set for
the following week,
l Six persons attended the initial meeting. As
most of them were primarily concerned with writ-
ing for radio, it was decided that for the present
at least activities would be devoted to the study
of script writing, with some examination of pro-
duction methods.

Subsequent meetings of the group brought a
number of new members who were attracted by
the possibility that actual radio production might
be undertaken soon. At the end of six weeks there
were approximately sixty persons registered in
the Radio Division and active plans were under
consideration for a definite series of broadcasts,
provided that material and facilities could be
arranged.

Through the generosity of George W. Poultney,

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
  

early days of the San Francisco theater were made
available, and it was decided that these should be
adapted for use as thirty minute radio productions.
Accordingly a class of writers was formed to adapt
the plays, meeting one evening each week. On
another evening of each week those interested in
radio acting met for instruction and rehearsal.
As soon as the first of the scripts was ready, it
as completely rehearsed and prepared for per-
iformance.

Radio Station KYA was approached with a
view toward utilizing its facilities for broadcasting.
An audition was given, the program plan was ap-
proved, and the first broadcast by the Northern
California Drama Association’s Radio Division
was scheduled for Tuesday evening, April 6, 1941,
at 10:15 P. M.

During the ten weeks that followed the first

By HESTER PROCTOR and RICHARD H. TATE

San Francisco, California

As a part of its regular schedule of ac-
tivity for I‘M-Il the Northern California
Drama Associationl sponsored by the San
Francisco Recreation Commission' under-
took the production of two series of radio
programs involving twenty broadcasts.
These proved so successful that the Radio
Division of the Drama Association is
submitting a report of its program for
the benefit of other groups interested.

a number of play manuscripts dating back to the'

broadcast a play from
the Poultney collec-
tion, adapted by the
writing class, was presented
each Tuesday evening. De—
spite the unfavorable hour of
the broadcast and the fact
that only a small portion of
the people involved had any
previous experience in radio
production, the programs
were well received by the
public. At the conclusion of
ten broadcasts the series was discontinued for the
summer months, since vacations and other sum-
mer activities of Division members made produc—
tion difficult. However, a class in radio writing
and another in radio acting were instituted as pre-
paration for further broadcasting in the fall. Dur-
ing the summer a special fifteen minute broadcast
honoring Joseph Lee was given over Station KYA.

The summer classes were very successful, at-
tracting many new members. In September the
Radio Division numbered well over a hundred
people. Obviously all of these could not im-
mediately take part in productions, but that fact
did not seem to lessen interest except in a few
cases. '

On September 21, 1941, the second series of
programs was begun on KYA. These were broad-
cast at 5:30 P. M. on Sundays except the first
Sunday of each month. The new time available
increased the-potential audience and general in-
terest in the programs. The same identifying title,
“Gold Coast Theater,” which had been used for
the first series, was again employed although the
new series was somewhat different in format.
These programs were entirely original and were
dramatized biographies of men and women promi—
nent in the theater world of San Francisco during
the early years of the city.

Although the second series was planned to ex-
tend over a schedule of thirteen broadcasts, it was
terminated abruptly following the ninth program
by the entry of the United States into the war.
This move was taken because for a period of some
weeks the radio stations were cleared of all ama-

(Continued on page 37 0)
357

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Captain Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

GASSIZ, LOUIS (1807-1873). Born in a
Swiss parsonage near the Jungfrau. Money

was so scarce he could not buy books, so he copied
Lamarck’s Animonx 5 ans Vertebres to study. He
kept field mice for pets; learned crafts from
journeymen cobblers, tailors, and coopers; climbed
mountains from childhood; fenced expertly; at
thirty startled the world with his theory of a uni-
versal glacial period; camped on a Swiss glacier
under a boulder roof and behind a blanket door;
sailed for America in 1846; stressed the famous
motto, “Study nature, not books”; gave his first
public lectures at the Lowell Institute, Boston;
and in 1848 accepted the Chair of Natural History
of the Laurence Scientific School, Harvard. With
a faith great enough to move mountains, he estab-
lished the Museum of Comparative Zoology. He
was indeed the Father of American Nature Study.
His grave is marked with a boulder from the Aar
glacier, shaded by pines from the Alps, and is in-
scribed with the phrase “Louis Agassiz, Teacher.”

Animals. “Man and His Creatures,” H. C.
Knapp-Fisher. Dutton, New York City. 236 pp.,
illus. $2.00. ‘

“Birds, Attracting,” John H. 'Baker, Editor.
Doubleday Doran and Company, New York City.
268 pp. $2. 50. A dependable manual by Audubon
bird experts.

Birds, Rhode Island. Two birds that will never
be in Rhode Island again—Passenger Pigeon and
Great Auk. Two birds that might possibly be
brought back to Rhode Island—Wild Turkey and
Upland Plover. Two birds that are coming back
to Rhode Island under protection—American
Egret and Whistling Swan. Two birds seen in
Rhode Island's Seekonk River during migration——
Double Crested Cormorant and Laughing Gull.

“Bob-White Propagation.”
Bulletin IO. Superintendent
of Documents, Washington,
D.C., 1941. 50 pp., 43 figures.
10 cents.

“Climate and Man,” Year-
book of Agriculture, 1941.
U. S. Department of Agri-
culture. Superintendent of

358

"None of Nature's landscapes are ugly
so long as they are wild; and much. we
can say comfortingly. must always be in
great part wild, particularly the sea
and the sky, the floods of light from n
the stars. and the warm, unspoilable
heart of the earth. intinitel
ful. though only dimly visibe to the
eye of the imagination."—John Muir.

Documents, 1,248 pp., illus. $1.75. It’s American
climate that makes the American.

Conservation. Waterfowl increased in-number
greatly in 1941 due to protective measures. Ac-
cording to estimate there are forty birds for each
person in the United States. The total waterfowl
population is about five billion. From Current
Science, January 26, 1942.

Explorers. “Famous Explorers for Boys and
Girls,” Ramon Peyton Coffman and Nathan G.
Goodman. Barnes, New York City. 166 pp., illus.
$2.00.

Fish. “A Manual of Conservation for Missouri
Teachers.” Missouri Conservation Commission,
Jefferson City, Mo., 1941. 37 pp.

Flower Show, Junior. The Junior Garden Club
Council of the New York H erald Tribune directed
a Spring Flower Show at Macy’s auditorium and a
Fall Flower Show at the Wanamaker auditorium.
There were over 1,000 exhibits in the June show.
Erna W. Cass was Secretary.

Forest Recreation. “Recreational Development
in the National Forests,” Kenneth O. Manghan.
Technical Publication, No. 45. New York State
College of Forestry, Syracuse, New York. 172 pp.

Fund for Conservation. Vassar College has re-
ceived one half million dollars for “the Conserva-
tion of beauty and the pursuit of happiness.” It is
conservation for enjoyment. Let your imagination
play on this idea for awhile.

“Gardens of the Colonists.” Popular Study
Series, History. No. 10. Regional Review,
Richmond, Virginia. January 1939. Reprint 10
cents.

Hawk Mountain Sanctuary Association in its
Third Annual Report (1940-41) states: “The
object of this corporation
shall be to create a sympa-
thetic understanding for birds
and wild life . . .” Although
1940 was a “poor hawk sea-
son, Maurice Broun, the
curator, recorded 11,237
raptores. His booklet, “Peace
at Hawk Mountain Sanctu-

(Continued on page 365)

beauti-

 

Recreation for America at War

OBILIZATION of the na-
M tion’s recreation lead—
ers for more effective
wartime service will be the
underlying theme of the War
Recreation Congress scheduled to get under way
Monday, September 28, in Cincinnati, Ohio. Com-
munity leaders 'and recreation experts attending
the five-day session will be concerned with leisure-
time programs for men in all branches of the
armed services, for industrial war workers, and
for civilians.

The cooperation of the Federal government in
planning the Congress has been wholehearted.
President Roosevelt’s letter, printed last month in
RECREATION, expressed keen interest in the pur-
pose of the War Congress. Representatives from
several Federal agencies will take part in the pro-
gram, and War and Navy Department men are
being assigned to attend the Congress. The Ofiice
of Defense Health and Welfare Services is send-
ing representatives, at least two of whom, Assist-
ant Director Charles P. Taft and Director of Rec-
reation Mark McCloskey, will have positions of
major importance on the War Congress program.

For Mr. Taft the Congress
will be, in a way, a homecoming
since he is one of Cincinnati’s
leading citizens. A's a city coun-
cil member he has been in-
terested in the Cincinnati
public recreation commis-
sion and has been active in
the work of other recrea-
tional agencies in the city.
Mr. Taft will be remem-
bered for his talk at the De-
fense Recreation Conference
of the National Recreation
Congress in Baltimore a
year ago. As one of the
featured evening speakers
this year he will discuss the
importance of strengthen-
ing local park and recrea-
tion programs.

Dr. Reinhold Schairer,

prominent European educa—
tor and exile from his native

Delegates to War Recreation
Congress in Cincinnati will study
emergency leisure-time problems

Lite under the Nazi regime will
be described for Congress dele-
gates by Dr. Reinhold Schairer.

German educator now in exile

 

Germany since the rise of
Hitler, will speak at one of
the general evening sessions.
Sent to this country by the
British Committee on Edu-
cational Reconstruction, Dr. Schairer is now
active with the corresponding committee in the
United States. I

He will give Congress delegates an account of
life under the Nazi regime and will discuss prob—
lems of the post-war world. One of the most im-
portant tasks after war, according to Dr. Schairer,
will be the re«education of German youth and the
bringing of a spirit of unity, peace, and coopera-
tion to that country.

Delegates attending the general morning session
on Tuesday, September 29, will be given an out—
line of the program, accomplishments and needs
of the various emergency war recreation services.
Mark McCloskey, well known in the recreation
field, will tell the story of the Recreation Section
in the Office of Defense Health and Welfare
Services. '

Ray Johns, Director of Field Operations for the
United Service Organizations, will discuss the
work of the U.S.O.- The recrea-
tion work of the American Red
Cross will be described by
Robert Bondy, Administrator of
Services to the Armed
Forces. Miss Florence Kerr,
Assistant Commissioner,
will speak for the Work
Projects Administration.
Official representatives will
report on the recreation
programs of the Army and
the Navy.

The program of discus-
sion sessions and of general
meetings for the War Con-
gress has been worked out
with the aid of suggestions
from individuals and organi-
zations throughout the
country.

With war production now
in the spotlight of public in-

(Continued on page 365)

359

World at Play

Boox WEEK will be
celebrated this year
November I 5th to 21 st.
From Book Week
Headquarters, 62 \Vest 45th Street, New York
City, comes a suggestion that the slogan be “F or—
ward with Books" and that the following themes
be used for editorials and articles: “What Are
we Fighting For ?”; “What Are We Fighting
Against P”; “The United Nations”; “Our Fight-
ing Forces"; “What Can We Do to Help?”;
“What Can he Done for Children ?”. A colored
poster is available from Book Week Headquarters
at 20 cents. Glossy prints of the poster may be
secured free for reproduction.

November 15-21 —
Book Week 1942

THE Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals has
reversed a decision
convicting the operator
of a motion picture theater of violating the Sun-
day Blue Laws in holding a benefit for the Farm—
ville Junior \Vomen’s Club. One of the justices
declared the dismissal should be placed “on the
ground that the defendant was engaged in work
of necessity within the meaning of the statute.”
“The word necessity,” he said, “is elastic and
relative, and must be construed with reference to
conditions under which we live. Our ideas of what
is a necessity have undergone a change. We
recognize as necessities things which were re-
garded as luxury or were even unknown when the
statute was passed.

“Due to the complexities of our present-day
civilization and the strain under which we now
live and work, relaxation and recreation are just as
much necessities as food and drink.”

Recreation Judged a
Necessity

THE Rural Schools of
St.Louis County, Min-
nesota, have received
a gift of 125 acres of
land with three cottages immediately across the
road from an existing school. The gift has been
made by the widow of a leading citizen in the vil-
lage of Cotton in memory of her husband. Tenta-
tive plans include the use of the cottages as resi-
dences for the teachers and their use as youth
hostels during the summer months; utilization of

360

Expanded Program for
St. Louis County

 

 

littllln’gliiimmu1mm

.7 -. Nun’s," vA'.\-r--. a..~ -.-.’ v—‘J-*b-w——-—u-—T -

 

"Book Week, with its accent on youth,
focuses on the homeI seeks to bring
children to books. teaches them the
pride of owning. the delight of shar-
ing. the icy of entering new worlds
along the magic pathway of books."

   
  
  
    
   
 
 
    
    
   
  

some of the open helds and woodlands in th
property as agricultural plots and gardens, witl

a forest demonstration tract, and picnic sites.

THE Carnegie Foun
tion has made an
propriation of $10,
to the Department
Public Recreation of Baltimore, Maryland, for 0
year to be expended principally for supplements
instruction on a neighborhood basis in art, mus'
drama, and the dance. The classes will be held
community centers.

An Appropriation for
Arts and Crafts

FOR twenty-six y
without interrupti
the “Open Air Foru
has met every aft
noon except Sunday from three to four in Wi
liams Park in St. Petersburg, Florida. Monda
Thursdays, and Saturdays are given over respec
ively to “Current Events,” “Poetry,” and “W
and Humor.” On Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fri
days there are lectures. ’

“Open Air Forums” in
St. Petersburg

l/VORLD AT PLAY

The Forum is governed by a board of twelve
governors elected semi-annually, and is being more
largely attended this year than ever before. The
constitution of the Forum requires that contro-
versial discussions be avoided. The Forum is non-
sectarian and nonpartisan. There are no dues, no
fees, and very seldom, if at all, any collections.

Homemakers’ Clubs —The Homemakers’
Clubs sponsored by the Recreation Department of
Lansing, Michigan, continue to grow in numbers
and usefulness. There are forty-three such groups

- with a membership of 600 women. The clubs meet

once a week, and at each meeting a lesson sheet
is distributed. The sheets cover four different
subjects: health, character education, nutrition,
and homemaking.

The women not only enjoy singing at their
meetings but they are enthusiastic about holding
contests to see who can produce the best parody
on well-known songs. One of these songs, to the
tune of “Deep in the Heart of Texas,” strikes a
serious note:

The Homemakers meet one day each week
In Somebody’s home in Lansing.

They sing, they pray, they sew, they play
In Somebody’s home in Lansing.

Once a month they meet for fun

In Somebody’s home in Lansing.

They don’t forget there’s a war to be won
When they go to their clubs in Lansing.

A ‘fNature Man” for Bethlehem, Pa.—- Last
summer for the hrst time a nature program was
conducted on the playgrounds of Bethlehem, Penn-
sylvania, under the supervision of a “nature man”
who visited each playground once a week and pre—
sented a nature program. These programs in-
cluded exhibits of snakes, turtles, pets, leaf prints,
plants and wild flowers, and talks about them.
The nature supervisor also prepared bulletins for
the use of the playground leaders and acted as
curator: of a small nature museum and menagerie
set up in the armory. Space was used to display
some of the nature work being done on the play-
grounds, and it also served as a laboratory .in
which to mount insects and press leaves and flow—
ers. The menagerie consisted of rabbits, white
rats, mice, chickens, alligators, and snakes. Each
playground had table space on which to arrange
its nature exhibit which consisted for the most
part of leaf prints, nature notebooks, birdhouses
and shelters, and collections of insects and rocks.

361

ST0P ATHLETE'S FOOT

. . . more efficiently
. . . more economically with

MEB-KIL PC 1 5

O SAFE to handle

0 NON-lRRlTATlNG

0 STABLE solution

I. READILY AVAILABLE

MER-KIL PC I5 offers BETTER control of athlete’s foot

because a I7, solution lrills the fungi in one minute—
yet is non-toxic and non-irritating to healthy tissue.

MER—KIL PC I5 is an advance step in the combination
of mercury and iodine in a water soluble solution—
nothing else like it on the mar-
ltet. It is readily available.
superior to and more economi-
cal than any other effective
compound that we know. -

LOW COST . . . I gallon

maltes IOO gallons of work-
ing solution at an approxi—

-_ mate cost of Be a gallonl
\\

    

   
  
 
 
 
 
    
 

ldeol for disinfect—
ing wool or silk
swim suits as it
causes no damoge
to or staining of
these moteriols.

W rit e f o r
sample and
informotion

Sm! '44,
 lllER-llll. CHElIlICllL PRODUCTS company
Jillln\\\\ |07 North Wacker Drive Chicago lllinois

‘
‘
‘
-

   

Boy Scout Membership—On March 31, 1942,‘
there were 51,180 registered Boy Scout Troops,
Packs, and Senior groups serving a total member-
ship of 1,550,007 Cubs, Boy Scouts, and leaders.

Jay M. VerLee——Jay M. VerLee has just ac-
cepted the position of Recreation Executive for
Colorado Springs, Colorado. Jay M. VerLee served
for several years in the research work of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, He has worked also

under the U.S.H.A. and the F.S.A.

Portland, Oregon, Acquires Property—The
Portland City Council has accepted a donation of
property in the Mock’s Crest district which will
permit of the construction of a spacious parkway
and provide a new entrance to Columbia Park
from the Boulevard. The property was the gift of
Mrs. Elizabeth Yeon, widow of John B. Yeon,
former state highway commissioner, and daughter
of John Mock—for whom ~Mock’s Crest and
Mock’s Bottom are named. The Mock land claim
was one of the largest in the peninsula area.

362 “FIRST AID FOR THE AILING HOUSE”

Spooring in Everyday Life
(Continued from page 354)

An article in the january 1942 issue of Outdoor
Indiana states that the study of animal tracks by
winter hikers at state parks in Indiana makes an
interesting hobby.

“You can start your tracking adventures any-
where,” states the article; “in your yard, along
some stream, in snow, with the aid of the thawed
winter earth, in the sands of the islands of the old
Kankakee. Best of all. however, would be in a
state park where the birds and mammals are as
nature meant them to be, neither living in constant
fear and watchfulness nor unnaturally tame and
pampered.

“Tracking was once a vital science. A knowl-
edge of tracks was necessary to the fur business,
which was the basis of the first great enterprises of
Indiana. Agriculture did not come until long after-
ward. It was fur that first made transportation
important.

“Much later it was a knowledge of tracking that
helped the pioneer to find his food and protect his
home and family. Then, for a long period, track-
ing ceased to be important. \Vildlife diminished.
The tracks of rabbits, quail, squirrels and a few
of the fur animals remained, but most of the
larger tracks had disappeared. Today they have

increased.”

An Athletic Field for West Hartford

(Continued from page 345)
disadvantages of different designs that had been

followed in various sections of the country, it was
decided to adopt a design that would best suit the
Special conditions. The track is considered to be
what athletes term “a fast track.” It is one-fourth
mile in length, twenty-four feet wide, and has a
concrete curb along both edges. The track has a
slight pitch in its cross-section on the straight-
away, gradually banked to a maximum of twelve
inches on the turns. The specifications for its con-
struction provided for under-drains, gravel, coarse
cinders, and finally fine cinders with a small per-
centage of loam for the finished surface. It is ex-
pected that these materials will make the track
surface very resilient, without decided cutting up
of the surface when it is in use.

The water supply system is a feature that will
make the maintenance of the field and track an
easy one. Besides providing drinking facilities,
there are distributed at different intervals on the
water lines, blind sprinkler outlets. These outlets

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
   

uFirst Aid for the Ailing House"

As a Form of Recreation

MANY MEN to the delight of their wives find
very great satisfaction in what others woul
designate as puttering around the house in makirg

repairs and adding a touch of beauty here an
there.

For many years Roger B. \Vhitman has bee
the conductor of a daily column in the N ("20 For
Sm: which had the title “First Aid for the Aili ‘
House.” His recent death is a distinct lossto t
recreation movement.

A number of men who spent part of their rec
reation time working around the house alway
turned very soon, if not first, to this column at
nearly always found something of great interes
The information was ever practical, interestix
vital, with a quality of homely simplicity.

Wives and mothers owe a very considera
debt to Roger B. Whitman because he made wo
ing about the house so altogether delightful a _
attractive.

are just below the surface and when not in use
covered with a rubber fixture so as not to cr
hazardous spots on the surface of the field.
main water pipe is asbestos and the smaller si
are tube-10y. Provisions were made in the wa
system to have suf‘hcient water for a perman
building providing lockers, toilets, and shower
cilities. The proposed location of this bUlldlI
on the east side and parallel to the track.

Due to priorities, the town has. been una
obtain a wire fence to enclose the field. \Vith '
exception, however, it is expected that the
will be completed by midsummer.

As time progresses new features will be ad
but since the town will now have an ideal rec
tional center for all its citizens, these added feat
for the minor sports were thought to be unn ' '
sary at this time.

Much credit is due to the citizens and town
ficials who cooperated to bring about the const n
tion of this field, and also to the town engi
and his staff, because without their technical *
the land which was once an unsightly swa
would not be an ideal athletic field today.

HA VANA’S RECREATION PROGRAM

Havana's Recreation Program
(Continued from page 348)

lifeguards ; tWO physical education and gymnasium
instructors; a librarian; and a chief of medical
service.

Program. The use of the park is limited to chil-
dren sixteen years of age and under who are in
attendance in Cuban schools. The area is open the
year round for eight hours a day. Lights are avail—
able for some activities, but night activities are
confined to scheduled competitive games only. The
daily attendance during good weather ranges from
one thousand to fifteen hundred daily. Through
the summer months swimming is, of course, the
most p0pular activity.

A health and corrective service is available to
children who attend. Physical examinations are
given. An excellent first aid service is available
at all times.

Obiec’rives. The philosophy of the recreation
program is summarized in the list of objectives
formulated for the area:

a. To provide for the physical, mental, and

moral betterment of youth.

b. To facilitate sane recreation and social ac-
tivities.

c. To combat by every means the evils and
tendencies that threaten the morals, health,
and physical development of youth.

d. To inculcate a lofty spirit of sportsmanship,
meaning in this concept conformity with
good.Sportsmanship, moderation in victory,
reSpect for the adversary, and the firm pledge
to pursue victory only through fair means.

e. To protect the practices and application of
physical education and sport beneficial to
youth, stimulating at the same time study
and work. _

f. To exalt the concept of the word of honor
as of inestimable value and as the highest
manifestation of personal worth. In a like
manner to value all things in which the
chivalrous Spirit is manifested.

g. To instill the observance of sane discipline
in the practice of physical education and
sports to the end that our youth may con-
stitute a suitable example of culture and of
physical and mental preparation among
civilized nations. ‘

h. To render fervent homage to the country
and flag; and to exalt the duty of every citi-
zen to respect and dignify them.

 

  

 

363

' . . 4o" . 4* .
' é - r
g
\ .t '.-. _- 11- em ..

s. - I,
.- ' . ,5
-.;' . '---r - -  u
r .:""':1'IJ - .

        
 
     
        
   
  
   

a ._ i if -    it if? FOR --'a-E r r E a
 i. j ATH LifETl'c so u l 9M E” NT

V  _   I  Sp’ort' I

         ’  T~h8re,;is -

I ‘ .:QB§WL.I§GS EQUIPMENT

‘       Your Game!

‘: 32  :33 
'. -. - 5;.
. s
 ; . ; ..
1-?

- '1.-.-.-.iimwmt-armu-m» '-‘-‘C.4.A';‘¢-‘ . .-., u.
‘3‘.- .mm... . W - -

lnvesf in Liberfy
and Freedom

_  BUY
'.  U. s. WAR BONDS
3:, and STAMPS

 .I , , . ' .3: g

 

nnwmncs manurnc'rumna COMPANY

SAINT LOUIS ‘ MISSOURI

Community Actwntles in

Housing Developments
(Continued from page 356)

Recreation Program, and the Office of Civilian
Defense. They are so proud of their program that
they have had special stationery printed with a
heading listing twenty-four of their community
activities.

Through their civic league they plan their own
programs. They raise funds for equipment and
materials by putting on benefits, regular Saturday
afternoon movies, and a thrift shop resembling a
permanent rummage sale. They make full use of
the community buildings and the several play areas
in the project. Among their activities are craft
classes, a health clinic, a Red Cross production
unit, air raid defense organizations, archery, base—
ball, preschool play groups, parties, picnics, hikes,
and all types of clubs.

NOTE: This material, with the photographs, was pro-
vided by the National Housing Agency, Federal Public
Housing Authority, Washington, D. C.

  

     

364 THE LEISURE TIME OF A DEMOCRATIC ARMY

1k
** *‘k

* DIAMOND’S i:
PART in the WAR

About ninety per cent of our faciory's
output is for Army. Navy. and Air
Corps use. We are working 24 hours
a day. 7 days a week to help supply
tools for the war machine.

Such all-out effort is necessary in
spite of the sacrifices of civilian busi-
ness. We're in a war and we're in TO
WIN! When that job is done. it'll be
back to BUSINESS AS USUAL.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHUE CO.

46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

  
 

1k
1k *

The Leisure Time of a DemOCratic Army
(Continued from page 325)

level in this army, or what proportion of it can be
ascribed to the radio which one finds in use in
every corner of every camp, I do not pretend to
guess. But the soldiers that one meets and talks
with, on leave or in the camps, seem to be intelli-
gent about what is happening, in a way that was
not common or usual twenty-five years ago.
Moreover, I think I detect a difference in mood
between the two armies. In 1917 the Spirit of ad-
venture was in the air. It was exciting business.
All eyes were turned on the battlefields in France,
and everybody wanted to be in on it. The only
fear the men had was that they wouldn’t be there
for the finish—for the march on Berlin or wher—
ever it was that victory was to be consummated.
The mood of today’s army is much more sober.
It isn’t so much an adventure as it is a job to be
done. There is no lack of determination, and cer-
tainly no lack of courage, but there is a grimness,
a sobriety, about the mood which I think was not as
evident in the earlier war. “far has been robbed
of its heroics. It is not a glorious adventure. It is

it 

   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
  
    
    

not merely a trip to France and a chance to
“smash the Huns.” It is a somber necessity, some--
thing that we didn't want, but now that it is here
we are going through with it to the end. Any idea
that we can be defeated is dismissed. \V e (011’! be
defeated, but it is bitter business, and the sooner
we get on with it and finish it the better. That
means the sooner we shall get home.

It is interesting to contrast this mood with that
which prevailed before Pearl Harbor. Before
December 7 the morale problem was a difficult one
in army and navy camps, The constant question,
expressed and unexpressed, was: “\Vhy are we
here?" To many of the troops it seemed as if they
had been uprooted from a useful life to serve no
real purpose. A man who was drafted was gen-
erally considered out of luck. A man who could
contrive to be sent home was fortunate. The
thing to do was to serve your time and get away.
There was no deep feeling of urgency, of crisis.
There was nothing immediately at stake.

Morale Is Higher

All this has changed. The army knows why it
is in camp; the navy understands the vital neces-
sity of training. Nobody has to argue with the
'men of the armed forces about the reality of the
peril which has taken them from civilian life. N 0
longer are they asking: “Why are we here ?" Their
question today among themselves is: “Where is
our outfit to be sent P”

As to how.“ they will acquit themselves let no
one have any misgivings. Their morale is high,
even if it expresses itself in a different form from
that which characterized the army of 1917. They
are made of the stuff of their fathers. I saw th-os
fathers at Chateau Thierry and the Argonne
Their sons will not let them down.

Apparatus Play Hour for Elementary
School Children

(Continued from page 347)

This play hour plan, which combines a recrea-
tional opportunity of a different type for elemen-
ary school children and some teaching experience
for maor students, has been in successful operation
for over ten years. This past year approximately
ninety children took part; usually there was in
attendance almost 100 per cent of those registered
for the season at each play hour. Sixty-five junior
and senior majors in physical education assisted
with the project.

RECREATION FOR AMERICA AT WAR 365

Recreation for America at War
(Continued from page 359)

terest, the problem of recreation for industrial
workers will be a major concern at the War Con—
gress. One general evening session will be devoted
to discussion of this subject by outstanding repre-
sentatives of labor and management. A series of
three special discussion meetings on industrial rec-
reation has been arranged and a fourth session
will be concerned with leisure—time activities for
the ever-increasing army of women workers.

A representative of the British government is
expected to attend the Congress and give delegates
a first-hand story of the British experiences with
recreation problems during the war. Also tenta-
tively on the program are representatives of the
War Production Board and the Office of Price
Administration who will answer questions involv-
ing supplies and equipment—priorities, shortages,
and substitutes.

The eight general sessions and more than thirty-
six discussion meetings of the Congress will be
devoted to various aspects of the war recreation
problem. Among topics for discussion at morning
and afternoon meetings are the needs of children
in wartime, church recreation for service men and
war workers, music in wartime, the need for
plays, pageantry and patriotic demonstrations, the
place of volunteers in wartime service, home and
family recreation, the contribution of camping to
the war effort, and recreation in war workers’
housing projects. Recreational activities for use
in special emergencies—air raids, evacuation, epi-
demicshblackouts—will be discussed at a Tuesday
afternoon session.

Although the Congress program is a particu-
larly full one, Thursday afternoon is being ‘left
free to accommodate delegates with special inter-
ests. Any group wishing to meet together on that
afternoon can make arrangements for a room and
time with the Secretary’s office at the Congress.

The Society of Recreation Workers of America
will hold meetings on Monday, September 28, and
a Society Luncheon on Thursday, October I. A
luncheon will also be held during the Congress
for alumni of the National Recreation School.
Meetings of the recently organized Recreation As—
sociation for American Industry will begin Sun-
day, September 27, and continue through Monday,
the 28th.

State and local officials throughout the country
have shown a keen interest in the War Recreation

©0‘LT Rm» ATHLETIC

mm EQUIPMENT

Mil n) w 5 Von: Hanna! corp. 1500! 35th SL105 Angr’asta".
Brarcl' ‘88 H. wanker [ll 9' ‘23,: IT‘

 

Congress. At the suggestion of Governor John W.
Bricker of Ohio, the governors of many of the
states have appointed delegates to the Congress.

Returns so far indicate that the War Congress
will attract more than a thousand recreation lead- ’
ers, public officials, and laymen to Cincinnati. Be-
cause of the war situation delegates have been
urged by the Congress Committee to make trans-
portation arrangements early and to cooperate
with local railroad and bus (officials.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
( Continued from page 358)

’

ary,’ 10 cents, is a record of the story. The
Association leads the movement in hawk protec-
tion. In 1940-41 the Sanctuary had 4,000 visitors.
Located near Orwigsburg, Pennsylvania, on Post
Office Route 1, the Sanctuary will be open to
visitors up to December 15th. '

“Jungle in the Clouds,” Victor Wolfgang v.
Hagan. Duell, Sloan and Pearce, New York City.
1940. Photographs and drawings. 260 pp. $3.00.
A naturalist and his botanist wife’s adventures in
the Aztec rain forests seeking the rare Quetzal, a
sacred bird of an ancient South American
civilization.

“Microscope, Adventures with a,” Richard
Headstrom. Stokes, New York City. 232 pp.,
illus. $2.00. Fifty-nine adventures with every—
thing from protozoa to the circulatory system.

Outlying Recreational Areas
(Continued from page 331)

addition to these facilities the areas offer thousands
of miles of clear streams protected from soil ero-
sion, numerous natural and artificial lakes, and
many of them have extensive picnic areas, bath-
houses and playfields.

366

ARCHERY IN THE IVAR SERVICES PROGRAM

Happy Days Are
Here Again!

THE study and instruction of Natural

Science takes on a new pleasure and effec-

tiveness with the advent of CANADIAN
NATURE. Directors of Boys' Clubs. Play

Directors, Camp Counselors, and others

will find practical help in this unique
magazine.

We believe that RECREATION MAGAZINE has
thousands of readers who would be interested in
the fascinating nature stories, wonderful photo-
graphs, drawings and color plates that appear in
each issue of CANADIAN NATURE—the maga-
zine which captures the hearts of everyone inter-
ested in nature and the outdoors. Parents, edu-
cators, librarians and nature lovers praise and
recommend it. An ideal gift and a magazine
which is needed in every home, school and library.
CANADIAN NATURE is issued in January,
March, May, September and November. Volume
4 for 1942 will contain 180 pages, 80 articles, 35
color plates, 150 photographs, 200 figure draw-
ings. An Annual Index is bound in the November
issue. The magazine enjoys wide United States
school use. The articles are suitable to the whole

of North America. There are subscribers in 43
States.

Money-Back Guarantee

Send coupon, with only $1.25 for one year’s
subscription. If you are not completely satished,
after receiving the first issue, notify us within 10
days and your money will be promptly refunded.

— — MAIL TODAY — — — — — —-

CANADIAN NATURE MAGAZINE
I77 Jarvis Strut, Toronto, Canada

Enclosed is $1.25. Please enroll me for one year’s

subscription—5 issues-—on your money-back guar-
antee in RECREATION Magazine.

Name .............................................................................. ..

 

  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  

Archery in the War Services Program
(Continued from page 341)
similarly constructed bows. \Vhile these bows can-

not compete with bows made from finer woods,
they have brought many hours of pleasure to those.
who could not afford more expensive tackle. Thou!
who wish to learn to make their own bows find '
much more economical to learn the fundamenta
skills practicing and experimenting on the shov 1
handle staves. \Vherever it has been possible t
make an adequate supply of these bows for gener
participation, archery has become one of the n10‘
popular forms of recreation.

The picture accompanying this article was take
at Stockton Field, California, where Uncle Sal
is giving his cadets advanced training in the.
of flying. These boys, most of whom were nev
introduced to an archery program, have found th
activity to be a fascinating sport. The Stockt
Recreation Project of the \N PA has been furni
ing trained women instructors in archery at t
local army posts during off-duty hours of ca
and enlisted men, and leisure-time programs f
ofiicers and their wives. Several women’s orga
zations are participating, with the soldiers, in t
leisure-time pursuit in programs carried out in t
city parks on Saturday and Sunday afternoons.

Many of the service men who desired to ente
competitive shooting have purchased their ow
bows. Some have secured roughed-out staves fro
archery supply houses and experienced mucl
pleasure in making their own tackle. Seve ..
women have made their own bows with gratifyi ,
success.

As a physical conditioning activity archery ra1
well toward the top of the list of sports. Its exc
lence as a means of training coordination betwe
hand and eye has been recognized by army ofhci
who are heartily endorsing archery progra1
The sport also affords a splendid opportunity f:
wholesome companionship and recreation bctw a
service men and young women in the communit
adjacent to camps.

A Salmagundi Spree
(Continued from page 329)

and, incidentally, establish your reputation as
popular hostess or host. When you do plan
Salmagundi Spree, and guests linger until morn
ing, maybe then you’ll understand what prompted
the idea of this Hodgcpodge affair. You'll agree
that when better party plans are made, a Salma-
gundi Spree will hold the lead!

LOCAL RECREATION COMMITTEES 367

‘ 
RECREATION IS AN INVESTMENT
IN AMERICA'S FUTURE

*
Play with the best~ asyou workfor Victory

GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BASEBALL BATS
LOUISVILLE SLUGGER SOFTBALL BATS, LOUISVILLE POWER-BILT,
LOUISVILLE GRAND—SLAM and LOUISVILLE
LO—SKORE GOLF CLUBS

Local Recreation Committees Active
In Communities Visited by Soldiers
. (Continued from page 343)

national volunteer organization providing services
to the soldiers, is formed by six major private
welfare groups, namely, the Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A.,
the National Catholic Community Service, the
Jewish Welfare Board, the Salvation Army, and
the National Travelers Aid Society, which are

subject to supervisory control by the Director of
the Office of Defense Health and Welfare Services.

U.S.O. is a supplemental agency. It is not in—
tended to supersede local efforts but to supplement
them. When large communities have resources
sufficient to meet the emergency they are ex-
pected to do so. But, when small communities
find large concentrations of men in camps adja-
cent to their towns and resources not available to
meet the needs, the USO. steps in and helps with
the job when requested, It provides personnel and
maintains Clubhouses to serve the social, educa-
‘tional and welfare needs of the men.

   

. -?K;E*H'*’rf-*U'C.E* 

> ' <, ‘ - -
./, , -I
. :3
- 5’
A i
e

(i? 
. _ 1‘

‘.. ’i
-. g z
A r. v.
'\ J

-r- r "- .y

While the basic plan of U.S.O. operations con-
templates the establishment of U.S.O. clubs in
government-owned buildings, the 188 Federal
buildings it now operates comprise but a part of
its 495 Clubhouses included in its 740 operations
in continental United States. The remainder func-
tion in rented or privately—provided quarters.

As the liaison group, the Joint Army and Navy
Committee on Welfare and Recreation coordinates
government and civilian activities affecting the
troops both within the camps and in near-by com-
munities. '

A Hobby Show in Daytona Beach

(Continued from page 337)

Pets. Carrier and fantail pigeons
Group Activities. Marionettes and puppets

During the show the most valuable exhibits were
kept in glass showcases. Twenty-five volunteer
hostesses acted as guides and further explanations
were given by the exhibitors, who spent most of
the time during the show with their exhibits.

368

Recent Sargent Publications

EDUCATION IN WABTIME

Published June 1942, 224 pages, red 5th cloth, $1.50

Reviews educational thought, publications and do-
ings of the year. Tells what's doing in schools and
colleges in this time of change, what war has done
and what will win. Finds educators unprepared and
lacking in pertinent information. Redefines education
and looks for hope to the inspiring individual rather
than to isms and systems.

HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS

Published May 1942, 26th ed... "52 pp., 250 ill-us-
trations, 17 maps $6.00

An Annual Review and Guide Book for all inter-
ested in private initiative in education. Individual
private schools critically described.

A GUIDE To SCHOOLS,
COLLEGES AND CAMPS

Pub. April 1942, 7th ed., 232 pp., paper cover, 50:

A Guide for prospective students to colleges, junior
colleges, private schools and summer camps.

WAR AND EDUCATION: TRENDS
AND TENDENCIES TODAY
For early Foil publication, ca 350 pp., cloth, $3.50

Appraises changes resulting from the war. Presents
evidence that. our education leaves us without under-
standing and without emotional control—that our
current systems of education make possible our
present systems of wars.

Circulars on request

PORTER SARGENT
11 BEACON STREET, BOSTON

 

Family Nights at: Community Centers
(Continued from page 353)

charge of all public relations. The material for
family night is written and approved by chairmen
Of the committees and the director of the center.
It is then forwarded to local newspapers and radio
Stations. \Vritten or verbal announcements are
sent to all institutions of the community. The

publicity committee works closely with all other
committees.

The activities and program committees decide
on the types of games to be played in the gym-
nasium and see that the program is well balanced,
including quiet games, stunts, and active games.
Members of the committee familiarize themselves

FAMILY NIGHTS AT COMMUNITY CENTERS

4’

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
     
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
  

with the games to be played and each selects the
activity he wishes to direct.

The outline of the program for the evening is
given to the equipment committee as soon as pos-
sible in order that this committee may secure the
necessary articles and equipment, and arrange the
gymnasium and stage adequately for the activities.
This avoids delay during the evening and keeps
enjoyment at a high pitch. Very often the com-
mittee finds it necessary to make the alphabet
cards used for playing _“Scrambled Alphabet” or
the name cards for playing “\V hat IS My Name.”
and Similar games. Equipment for playing ping-l
pong, volleyball, and badminton is always at hand.

The gymnasium, which is seventy feet square,
is used for most of the activities during play nights.
Because the space is so large it is possible to carry“
on more than one activity. The Stage is used to
Shadow play skits and plays. These are given by
the junior dramatic groups to acquaint the adu 7.
with children’s activities at the center.

The library may be used for reading and lOUl
ing, although we encourage more active forms a
recreation. The showers are available to all
ticipants during the evening. The Office is u
for individual conferences and telephoning.

Volleyball and badminton standards are u
when these games or variations Of them are played
Boxing bouts are held for the entertainment at
those present. Basketballs, volleyballs, medici
balls, and playground balls are used for relays a
games of various kinds. Men participate in lar
numbers in the table tennis tournaments which a
conducted. A member of the activities committ
assumes responsibility for this round-robin type I.
tournament. Punch bag demonstrations are st ;.
and everyone is allowed to try his skill. Ot
forms of equipment include ropes for jumping ..
playing games; strings for stunts and relays;
B, C cards for games, and chalk for marking t
the floor.

Five different types of relay games are pla
during the evening. These are very popular w'
those present. Demonstrations in volleyball .
badminton are given at the same time, and m
adults come to the center to play these particu
Sports. Quiet games and group singing have t .
largest participation. Self-testing games are co
ducted to the great enjoyment of the men. Marc
ing and drilling are very popular, as are stunt.
These activities have been included in every play
night.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 369

Recreation For Defense
( Continued from page 340)
great extent to which our American youth have
i

now become air-minded. Science and geology col-
lections, scrap and career books, miniature stage
sets, original poems, stories and essays on
Americanism, and art and handcraft exhibits are
among others that have definite recreational train-
ing for the future, as a part of the student’s pre-
paration for later citizenship and active participa-
tion in the American way of life.

The 1942 Hobby Show had exhibits from minia-

ture models of all kinds to live rabbits, pigeons,
and pheasants. About 200 hobbies were shown.
During the three hours the display was open to
visitors, over 2,000 people were guests at the
show. Other exhibits having defense recreational
value were similarly well attended.
0 The afternoon of the May Day is devoted to
.contests, tournaments, and Sport programs in which
.many of the community members take part. The
telebration has been held for the past thirty-one
years. A Queen’s Ball climaxes the evening ac-
tivities. Everyone thoroughly enjoys the full day
program, It is a day in which America and its
ideals are lived, loved, and obeyed—an activity
day which is characteristically American.

Space will not permit a discussion of what the
|hurriculum offers. Some classes are already estab-
Ilished and others are gradually being added to
neet the needs of defense training both in recrea-
tional and individual lines of service. The present
difficulty seems to be the coordination of the pro-

ram to avoid, as far as possible, too much dupli-
lSation, and to extend the activities to get 100 per
cent student participation in the fourth “R” pro-
gram .of Recreation for defense. Definite steps are
being taken to meet this problem and continued
progress seems assured.

   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
  

Urban Planning for War and Peace
(Continued from page 342)
cratic society, and recover the sense of adventure

that we had during the years of pioneering—a
readiness to go along different lines from those
which we took in the past.

“The wilderness of trees has been cut down;
now we have an urban wilderness that has to be
conquered, that has to be reduced to order, that
has to be made habitable for the last man, that has
to be made habitable for the human spirit, and
that requires of each and all of us not merely a

capacity for sacrifice but a capacity for leader-
ship.”

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

- MAGAZINES
H ygeia, July 1942

“Common Sense Under the Sun” by Paul E. Bechet

“Swimming Safely” by Lewis J. Silvers

“Wartime Neuroses” by Walter Freeman. Participa-
tion in active sports helps avert post-war neuroses

Journal of Physical Education, May-June 1942
“The Trampaline and Its Uses” by Ralph Leake
Model Airplane News, August 1942

“Air Ways.” News of models, builders, and activi-
ties from all parts of the world

Parents, August 1942

“Are You a Gun—Shy Parent?” by H. DeWitt Erk.

Rifle shooting for juniors, a safe hobby
“How to Hew a Nature Trail” by Carsten Ahrens

Red Cross Courier, July 1942

“Fighting Swimmers” by Carroll L. Bryant. "Water-
proofing” the army
“Services to the Armed Forces” by Lora Kelly. Rec-
reation for soldiers overseas, a major Red Cross
project
Survey Graphic, July 1942

“Bevin Belles: Wartime Specialists” by Therle
Hughes. Industrial welfare and recreation in
England

Woman, August 1942
“Boom in Biking” by Gilbert Rae Sonbcrgh

PAMPHLETS

Camp Fire Girls prepared-by Camp Fire Girls, Inc., 88
Lexington Avenue, New York City

Civil Defense llleasures for the Protection of Children
by Martha M. 'Eliot, M.D. Report of observations in
Great Britain, February 1941

U. S. Government Printing OHice, Washington, D. C.

179 pp., price 30 cents

Post-War Training and Adjustment. A statement of prin-o
ciples relating to the educational problems of returning
soldiers, sailors, and displaced war industry workers

Institute of Adult Education, Teachers College,
Columbia University, New York City

Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Convention of the Ameri-
can Institute of Park Executives, New Orleans, Louisi-

ana, October 6—9, 1941
Park Executive Institute, Box 422, Rockford, Ill.

Price $2.00

Rifle Marksmanship: A Basic Manual
Iowa WPA Recreation Program, Des Moines, Iowa

Road to Victory directed by Lt. Comdr. Edward Steichen,
U.S.N.R.; text by Carl Sandburg. A procession of

photographs of the nation at war
The Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street,

New York City. Price 15 cents

Roller Skate Hockey. WPA Recreation and Demonstra-
tion Program. Work Projects Administration, 107
Washington Street, New York City

Square and Folk Dancing. Department of Public Recrea-
tion, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania

Sta!)r Manual, United States Citizens’ Defense Corps. Out-

lining organization and duties of Oii‘ice of Civilian De-

fense personnel, with list of 0CD publications.
U. S. Government Printing OHice, Washington, D. C.

War Marriages, published by Girls’ Friendly Society, 386
Fourth Avenue, New York City. Price 15 cents

370

The Planning of School Grounds

for Community Use
(Continued from page 336)
developed along the lines suggested in the accom-
panying study, provides facilities that appeal to
young peeple and adults, and affords opportunities
for a well-balanced outdoor recreation program.

A Few Planning Suggestions

A few of the major principles underlying the
preparation of a design for a school site to be
developed for community use are:

Give adequate consideration to each of the age
groups to be served by the area.

Provide facilities that will appeal to people with
widely different interests and make possible a di-
versified program.

Utilize fully the natural resources afforded by
the site, such as irregular topography, trees or a
brook.

Divide the area for various uses in such a way
as to facilitate circulation and avoid interference
with activities.

Assure safety by careful selection and placement
of suitable apparatus, border and interior fences,
location of entrances, and arrangement of features
011 the site.

, Provide for multiple use of areas whenever
practicable.

Seek to deve10p an area that will be attractive
and that can easily be maintained in good
condition.

Nature Activities in Nebraska's Camps
(Continued from page 350)

WPA recreation centers, playgrounds and parks.

Pictures of birds found in a certain locality are
mounted on an attractive, rustic bulletin board
which is protected by a small roof. Usually a
few printed words above the pictures help begin-
ners to identify the birds. At some of the more
elaborate shrines, pictures show each bird in its
native habitat, and such features as feeding sta-
tions, bird baths, trees, shrubs and plants are
located near-by.

These simple visual aid devices have been found
to contribute extensively toward interest in and
knowledge of bird life. This knowledge is the first
step in the conservation and restoration of native
birds. For as Donald Peattie says, “Knowing life
better, a man will worship life more.”

The nature program at these Nebraska recrea-
tion camps has aroused the interest of many young

I

THE PLANNING OF SCHOOL GROUNDS FOR COMMUNITY USE

naturalists and we 110pe that there was more than
information in the long summer hours spent on
the nature trails. Perhaps these camping days will

be remembered as

“Those old days when the balancing of a yellow
Butterfly o’er a thistle bloom
was spiritual food and lodging for the whole afternoon."
—Loroell

Radio in the Drama Program
(Continued from page 357)

teur broadcasts. Since Christmas was approaching!
no further classes or rehearsals were held during
the year, but plans were made to resume all activi-
ties of the Radio Division, including actual broad~
casting, after the first of the year, provided, ol
course, that station facilities would be available. '
In all I42 persons applied for active participa-
tion in the work of the Radio Division. Approxi-
mately twenty others evidenced some interest bul
not suihciently to be classified as active. In th!
production of the broadcasts listed, 257 separatI
roles and other jobs were available. Ninety-om
different individuals were employed in some phas1
of production.

 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
    
  

Gold Coast Theater Productions
Each of the following productions offered i
1941 was adapted for broadcasting by a memb

of the group and the cast of each came from t
Radio Division’s membership:

Arkansas Doc Robinson

Jack the Jailbreaker Torn Maguire
M’Liss - The Chapmans
Shenandoah Junius Brutus Booth

A Trip to Chinatown

York State Folks

A Stranger in a Strange Land
The Wages of Sin

My Friend from India

In the Shadow of the Gallows

Edwin Booth

Lotta Cra-btree—No.
Lotta CrabtreehNo.
Lola Montez—No. 1
Lola Montez—No. 2
A Salute to Recreati

Columbia’s Armory—A Recreation

Center
(Continued from page 338)

assisted by a number of capable dance instruct
who volunteer their services.

The average attendance at each dance has b
between 500 and 600. Not only have the dan
provided entertainment for Columbia townspeo
but many persons from rural Boone County
surrounding smaller towns and communities
tend. Soldiers from near-by camps and others
furlough also have been guests at the dances.

A small admission fee is charged for b
dancers and spectators, the proceeds of which
used to purchase new equipment for our park.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Yankee Doodle's Cousins

By Anne Malcolmson. Houghton Miliiin Company, Bos-

ton. $2.50.

WITHIN THE PAST TWENTY YEARS, the author points 'out
in her preface, the American scene and the Ameri-

can idiom have come into their own in literature for
adults. For younger children, however, there is still an
unfortunate lack Of reading matter that presents tradi—
tional American lore “without apology or condescension.”
Her attempt to meet this need has resnlted in an impres-
sive and delightful assembling of real American heroes
from all parts of the country. The stories about these
heroes are charmingly tOld, and all the humor and ro-
mance of the characters have been preserved.

The Spanish-American Song
and Game Book.

Compiled by workers of the Music, Art and Writers’
Program of the New Mexico WPA. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $2.00.

HERE Is A COLLECTION of songs and games which are
_ actually a part of the folklore of America. The

descriptions of the games and the songs are given in

both Spanish and English, making it possible for readers
to learn about Spanish while they are taking part in the
activities? The illustrations are unusually delightful.

Recreation workers who are using the Good Neighbor
theme in their ‘recreation programs will find the book
very helpful.

Dynamo Farm

By Adam Allen. I. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia.
$2.00.
,” FARMING Is STILL A WAY OF LIFE, not just a business,”
says Dorothy Canlield Fisher in her foreword to this
story of country life. “The alert quickened interest which
this fact brings into the lives of rural boys and girls is
truly portrayed in Dynamo Farm.” The splendid features
Of the 4-H Club program are presented in popular form
through this volume.

How to Grow Food for Your Family

By Samuel R. Ogden. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.00.
READ BUT A FEW PAGES of this plain dirt gardener’s
experiences in growing vegetables for his family and
you will want to follow suit. But, you will have the
benefit of Mr. Ogden’s ten years of gardening right from
the start. Some helpful tables given are: a planting chart
showing amount and cost Of seed, how to plant, a
tenderness to frost table, a pest control calendar, food
values of various vegetables, and even mouth-watering
recipes. In short, here are many practical aids for the
inexperienced gardener who wishes to raise vegetables on
a small scale.

And So We Teach in a World of War

Published by Elementary Education Group, Teachers
College, Columbia University, Spring Session, 1942.
New York. $.10 plus $.03 postage.

“AGROUP 0F ELEMENTARY school teachers has been

studying the problems faced and handled by teach-
ers,” says Jean Betzner in her introduction to this
pamphlet, to which Dr. William K-ilpatrick and other
educators have contributed. “One of the current condi-
tions out of which many crucial problems arise is the
discouragement and perplexity felt by hundreds of able
fellow workers who are sensitive to the demands made
upon them tO serve children more adequately and liberally
than in any time in the history of education.” Recrea-
tion workers, as well as teachers, will find the anecdotes
regarding children and the quotations from educators in-
teresting and inspiring.

Right in Your Own Backyard

By Harold Wallis Steck. George W. Stewart, Pub-
lisher, Inc., New York. $1.75.
ANOTHER PRACTICAL BOOK on gardening has been added
to the rapidly growing body of literature on this
subject. Throughout the suggestions for garden plans,
building walks and walls, and other equipment runs the
theme that a backyard garden should be a place for
genuine rest and relaxation. There are suggestions, too,
for making a children’s play space, a badminton court,
and a swimming pool. The book is written in popular
style, and is more than usually interesting.

Official Softball Rules I942

Hi$llerich and Bradsby Company, Louisville, Kentucky.
.10.
I N ADDITION TO THE OFFICIAL RULES, this booklet contains

pictures of winning teams and records of the 1941
tournaments.

A History of Physical EducatiOn

in the United States

By Norma Schwendener, Ph.D. A. S. Barnes and Com—

pany, New York. $2.00.

N PRESENTING HER MATERIAL describing the progress

made by physical education in the last twenty years,
Dr. Schwendener has been concerned with correlating
the physical education movement with the cultural, social,
political, and economic aspects of American life. The
effect of EurOpean philos0phy on physical education is
discussed, and the work of outstanding organizations in
this country which have inHuenced physical education
and its development is described. Consideration has also
been given to the part played by governmental agencies
in promoting physical education, sports, and recreation.
Old prints, contemporary pictures, and modern photo—
graphs have been used to illustrate the text.

371

372

Teaching Physical Education in the
Elementary School.

By E. Benton Salt, Grace I. Fox, Elsie M. Douthett.
and B. K. Stevens. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.“).

The purpose of this book is to aid classroom teachers
in formulating a sound, Hexible program of physical edu-
cation based on the needs and interests of particular groups
of children. It provides activities, methods, and proced-
ures for teachers in the field. ‘Each activity is fully
described.

How Boys and Girls Can Help Win the War.

The Parents' Institute, Inc., 52 Vanderbilt Avenue,
New York. $.10.

This new single-issue magazine in the “comic” style
describes in full color comics twenty different wartime
activities for young folks from eight to eighteen years.
These range from gardening to what to do in an air
raid.

Radio’s Truth or Consequences Party Book.

By Ralph Edwards. National Broadcasting Com-
pany, New York. $.25.

This revival of a popular old party game will greatly
enliven your next home party, and the home idea is
emphasized by Mr. Edwards when he says in his intro-
duction that one of the fundamental ideas behind this
book is to bring back the almost overlooked fun of a
front parlor.

Safety Education Methods—Secondary School.

Education Division, National Safety Council, Inc.,
20 North Wacker Drive, Chicago. $.50.

This booklet is another in the series of manuals de-
signed to give teachers and administrators practice ma-
terial in convenient, inexpensive form. It has been
planned with the senior high school situation in mind.
Some of the activities suggested, especially those relative
to bicycle clubs, could be profitably used with junior high

school students, while others are suitable for junior col-
lege students.

Gearing Into Life. Youth Examines
lte Relationships.

Prepared by an editorial committee. John A. Ledlie,

Chairman. Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue,
New York. $.50.

This manual for leaders of youth groups will help them
in thinking through the manifold human relations to which
young people must adapt themselves. Section A consists
of discussion material, while Section B is devoted to a
discussion of a great variety of programs which were
built around the story of Larimore Foster.

Probation and Parole in Theory and
Practice. A Study Manual.

By Helen D. Pigeon. National Probation Associa-
tion, 1790 Broadway, New York. Paper bound, $2.00;
cloth bound, $2.50.

This study manual has been prepared for use primarily
as a textbook in connection with in-service training for
probation and parole ofiicers and others interested in the
correctional field. It is sufiiciently broad in its scope to
be of service in connection with institutes in the form of
intensive study groups, extension courses extending over
a semester or academic year, and in-service training
courses specifically organized for probation and parole
officers. The manual makes possible a greater use of the
discussion method.’ Recreation workers will be especially
interested in Part II dealing with “The Behavior of the
Individual.”

9

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

How You Can Make Democracy Work.

By Eugene T. Lies, B.S. Association Press, 347
Madison Avenue, New York. $1.75.

\Vritten out of forty years of experience, Mr. Lies'
book is not merely a restatement of the principle that
democracy must be made to work. He has translated this
principle into specifics for a victory program for every
community that really wants home defense. And he has
shown us how to start to make democracy live in e com-
munity’s schools, city government, recreation system, and
all community services. The book is an action manual
full of suggestions and examples.

 
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
  

The Gymnast's Manual.

By Wilbur D. West, M.P.E., Ph.D. Prentice-Hall
Inc., New York. $3.25.

Physical education teachers will welcome this
presentation of an old sport. The nomenclature is logica
and the discussion of relationships between performer an
apparatus simplified. Excellent guide drawings cop'
from motion pictures of expert gymnasts illustrate t '
book throughout. The detailed" index and selected bibli
ography are additional aids for beginner, advanced stu
dent, teacher or recreation worker.

Needle Point as a Hobby.

By D. Geneva Lent.
York. $3.00.

This book combines a portrayal of the historical (-
velopment of needle point with an extensive and d'
grammatic set of instructions on how to carry on e 
step ‘in the creation of needlework tapestries. Materi
are described and color schemes suggested.

Harper and Brothers, Ne

Ofiicers" and Directors of the Nation

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board of Directors
IIOWARED BRAUCNER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE. Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Be-
GUSTAvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. II. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEuls, Boston, Mass.
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS Buss, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTII, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRs. ARTHUR G. Cuunstlaclt-sonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, est Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN IIARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. Human, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CIIARLES V. I‘IICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GusTAvus ’1‘. Kurt, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis. Ind.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLBRY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MR5. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.
MR3. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. AMES W. \VADswonTH, Washington, D. C.
. C. ALSH, New _York, N. Y.

“Daniel: M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
{mm C. WINANT, Concord, N. 11.

:TANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

