War l942
WE MUST move fast.

But we must think where we are going.

We are in the Army now.

We are under the Federal Government.

We must accept our assignments in our field.

No grousing.

No hanging back.

All out for Victory for freedom.

Service to neighborhood and community now becomes a major recreation leisure-time activity.

Can we gather clean paper, tin; can we help train mothers for home recreation; can we help
in church recreation; can we gather books for men in camps?

Can we help the schools make model aircraft?

Can we help all boys nearing draft age to learn to swim in our swimming pools?
Can we plan our children's gardens in our recreation systems so that they will help?
Can we bring more young boys who are nearing draft age into our hiking clubs?

Is there gain in our recreation centers in having more of our boys learn about cooking simple
food?

Can we make the rooms in our neighborhood centers available for all kinds of training classes
for war volunteers?

Can we help all our people, old and young, to know well the words and music of the Star
Spangled Banner and a few other songs?

Is there not need here and now for greater resourcefulness, creativeness, initiative, in adapting
our playground work this coming summer?

If there be a shortage of rubber, of steel, of certain other equipment, do we not have much of
other material in our homes and in our neighborhoods? Are there not many arts and crafts ma-
terials which we still have in plenty right about us on which we may try our skill with our hands?
May we not have a stronger program of music, of drama?

May we not develop a much greater enjoyment of the beauties of nature on the part of the
children? May not our children come to know the birds and much of wild life in a way they may
not have had time for before?

Can we help our boys and girls and young people to carry back from the neighborhood center
to their homes a deep feeling for their city and its government. and for their country?

Boys, girls, young people want definite practical service. .What can you give them to do in their
homes, their neighborhoods? And this without overlapping what anyone else is doing. Is there a
chance for us on the playground to help certain of the young people to go out into the country to
assist in harvesting certain crops when there is a shortage of labor?

Is it not possible this year for certain youngsters themselves to serve as volunteer assistants and
can the children and we who work for them commandeer volunteers as never before?

Very much we are doing and will continue to do that is immediate, practical, definite, and that
helps to win the war.

 

MAY, I942

 

57

Photo by Donald

"To be able +0 crea+e a s’rory. ’ro make if live during {he momenf of 'Phe +ell-
ing. ’ro arouse emg’rions—wonder, laugh’rer. joy. amazemenf—fhis is 'ihe only
goal a s’roryfeller may have."-—Ruth Sawyer in The Way of the Storyteiler.

 

When Schools Close For the Summer—

and the Exodus to the Playgrounds Begins!

I! alt A“; ".Ll‘

 

By Gedge Harmon

Another year has passed and once more we take you on a tour of America’s
playgrounds. You will see little children happily at play in the sand
box and in the swings. You will catch a glimpse of older boys and girls
enjoying games, taking. part in festivals and circnses, making things in
craft shops. And you will see men and women, too, tired from their day’s

work, coming to the playground for relaxation.

Nature on Wheels

By NEAL MACDONALD

11 00K AT THE LIZARD! It’s got long toes and a
L tail like a dragon and it can run across the
water-without sinking!” The excited play—
ground children crowded around the “nature man”
to watch a little reptile eating insects from his
hand. These boys and girls were learning things
about nature they had never known before. They
were discovering that this busy little lizard runs
on its hind feet very much like a human, that a
toad never drinks but absorbs water through its
skin, that snakes are not wet and slimy!

As the young audience stood wide—eyed, the
speaker brought out other members of his nature
family—turtles, insects, stuffed birds, frogs, toads,
and snakes. With each one he had some story to
tell, some lesson to teach. Then after the last
eager question was answered and the last frog
tucked away, the nature man and his exhibit would
move on to the next playground.

More than 3,600 children in \Vestchester
County's playgrounds made the acquaintance of

It is America at play.

the stuffed and living animals in this traveling
nature exhibit sponsored by the Upstate New York
Recreation Division of \VPA. During the sum—
mer of 1941 the big sedan with its precious cargo
visited fifty—four playgrounds and numbered 830
adults among its widespread audiences. The pro-
gram proved to be one of the most popular fea-
tures of the county playground schedule.
Whenever possible, live specimens were used
and new ones were constantly added to the collec—
tion during the summer. Many of the exhibits
were loaned by the New York Zoological Park in
the Bronx, Bear Mt. Nature Museum, Mr. Charles
Benedict of Ardsley', New York, and Mr. Fred
Ackerman of White Plains, New York.
Specimens were kept in specially made cages
and transported in a large sedan. The cages were
carried in the rear of the car, with the trunk space
used for mounted and box specimens.
Playgrounds were notified in advance when to
expect the exhibit so that children and interested
adults could plan to attend. \Vhen the big sedan
drove up, the children helped the nature leader set
up his boxes and cages on a large handcraft table.
Then boys and girls settled themselves in a semi-
circle on benches or on the ground, and when all

59

60 lll’HEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER

was quiet the playground direct-
or introduced the nature man.

At each session the speaker
explained the importance of na-
ture in our daily lives, its bene-
tits as a recreation and as a
tonic to the mind. He asked the group several
“Do you know what” questions and told them a
few “Believe it or not” amazers to create an im-
mediate interest in the exhibit. Since everyone
was anxious to see the snakes, these were kept
until the last of the program.

First the stuffed birds were brought out and
shown to the group. The audience learned many
bird habits by answering such questions as—\V hat
bird makes absolutely no sound when it is flying?
\Vhat bird lays its eggs in another bird’s nest to
avoid raising its own young? \Vhat bird hangs a
shed snakeskin from its nest
to frighten away its enemies?

Bird charts helped to illus-
trate the stories and the chil-
dren were told where they
could get colored bird and na-
ture cards free.
The speaker
stressed the
value of bird
conservation
and told his
young audience

how to look for

birds in fields
and woods. The
children han-
dled the speci-
men nests very
carefully, and
after the lec-
ture they were
allowed to study
the Audubon
bird bulletin
board with its
colored pictures
a n d p h o t o-
graphs and in-
formation about
bird and nature
clubs.

T h e n e x t
s t a r s i n t h e
show were the

Mr. MacDonald, who is associated
with the Recreation Division of

the Upstate WPA, conceived the
idea of the exhibit described

here and planned and executed it

Reversing the process followed in
Westchester County, the children
of Wheeling, West Virginia, travel
in buses to Oglebay Park where they
make the acquaintance of birds and
animals in their

native

 

turtles. Out of the cases came a
wood turtle, two box turtles, a
musk, snapping, painted, and
spotted turtle. The boys and
girls were warned not to touch
the snapping turtle which is lulpt
in a separate cage to protect the other turtles fro.)1
being nipped.

Each turtle was identified by differences in she-l“
colors, shapes and size. Again the conservatim
value was pointed out and the children were urged
never to harm turtles. Next came some interest-
ing turtle stories. The audience was ask-ed to
guess the reason for some of the odd habits «and
strange shapes of these animals—Why does the
box turtle have a hinged shell? Why is the shell
so hard? Do all turtles live in water? What are
the natural enemies of the turtle?

This last question created
some fun when the children
were told that they would find
one of the turtle’s worst ene-
mies in a small cardboard box.
When a child opened the box
and looked in,
he saw his own
reflection for a
mirror had been‘
glued in the bot-1
tom of the boxl

The insects
were then in-l
troduced as the
mostinteresting:
and least un-
derstood of 8.1
animals. They
are so smal
that peopl
often pass b
this most inter
esting chapter
in nature. Again
questions wer
asked and an
sweer — IS
Spider an in-
sect? What in—
sect buries th
dead? What in
s ect alwa y
walks back-
w a r d s ? D o

habitat.

   
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
    

LVHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER 61

earthworms have eyes? What insect has ears on
its front legs?

Live specimens of insects were exhibited in
quart jars with cheesecloth tops: a locust borer
beetle, praying mantis, spotted chafer beetles, sex—
ton beetle, katydid, cricket, lubber grasshopper
from Florida, caterpillar hunter beetle, grasshop—
pers, mud dauber wasp, earthworms, cockroach,
an ant colony, a crab and garden spider and half
a dozen caterpillars.

The audience was shown large specimen boxes
of mounted butterflies and moths, and the con-
struction of a mounting board was explained.
Charts of life histories and enlarged pictures helped
to demonstrate the habits of insects. The live speci—
mens climbed on small branches stuck in the sand
and were carefully observed through magnifying
glasses placed over the tops of the jars.

The children especially enjoyed watching the
insects eat. Sometimes there would be great ex—
citement when an ant lion caught an ant in his fun-
nel-shaped trap or when a mantis captured a grass—
hopper with a quick strike and devoured it. The
boys and girls soon discovered that they need not
go far from home to see new and curious things.

Reptiles were always the most amusing and en-
tertaining exhibits in the show. First came lizards
from many parts of the country. The audience
learned that some lizards can escape danger by
losing their tails and then growing new ones.
Others camouflage themselves by changing the
color of their skin to the color of the environment.
A jar containing some wet moss, three red efts,
and a niarbled salamander was passed around and
then came the prize lizard, the little basilisk which
runs like a human.

Frogs and toads provided fun for the audience
and food for the snakes. Most of them were col—
lected by boys at the various playgrounds and
usually the exhibit included leopard frogs, wood
frogs, green bull frogs and common toads.

The baby alligator provided an excuse for ex-
plaining the differences between an alligator and a
crocodile. Children at all the playgrounds became
very fond of Stumpy, the little alligator who had
lost his tail. They watched
the leader turn him on his
back and hypnotize him by
rubbing his stomach from
throat to tail. Stumpy always
slept very soundly until awak-
ened by a sudden tap on the
stump that had been his tail.

In |94| the Park Commission of Union
County, New Jersey, enjoyed its most
successful summer playground season,
from the point of view of participa-
tion, since I932. Fifteen playgrounds
in communities throughout the county
were conducted during July and August
and parts of June and September.

 

Hardy hunters from the playgrounds of
Union County "bring 'em back alive"!

The most exciting actors were the snakes. A
little ribbon snake was introducd first so that the
children would learn not to be afraid. The snake
was carried around among the children by the
speaker who pointed out its distinguishing marks
and told of its habits and conservation value.
Even the timid children finally ventured to hold
the snake and were surprised to find that it wasn’t
slimy. Most of them had also been under the im—
pression that all snakes are poisonous and that
they sting with the tongue which constantly darts
in and out, but these ideas were soon corrected.

Later the other snakes came out—two garter
snakes and a litter of eighteen young ones,
a milk snake, king snake, and black snake, a
brown water snake, a puff
adder, an indigo and a chicken
snake. On several occasions
the children saw a snake
catch a toad for dinner.

Many fallacies about snakes
were discredited and the audi-
ence learned that milk snakes

62 WHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER

do not milk cows, that
snakes do not necessarily
live to sundown when
killed, that they cannot
break themselves into
pieces and then grow back
together again, and that
there is no truth in the
“hoop snake” story.

After the lesson about
hamiless snakes, the speak-
er produced a jar contain-
ing the preserved head of
a piosonous fer de lance snake. This specimen
distinctly showed the poison fangs and the loca-
tion of the tongue. Then came a diamond back
rattlesnake mounted in a coiled position and the
skull of a rattlesnake showing the bone struc-
ture and fangs. The treatment for poison snake
bite was explained and the difference beween the
bite of poisonous and non-poisonous snakes
pointed out. This was especially interesting to
adult groups.

After the talk the children filed up to the table
to examine the specimens. With the adults they
played the nature electric game of correctly match-
ing animal names and habits with colored pictures.
The response to this type of nature learning was
immediate and satisfying.

On some of the playgrounds the children held a
turtle race. Each chose a turtle and placed it in
the center of a ten foot circle. A small turtle from
the five and dime store was'given as a prize to the
child whose entry first crossed the line.

The care of a nature exhibit during its summer
on tour is important and exacting. Live speci-

“mens must be fed and watered at intervals during
the week and proper food must be provided for
each one. Most of the animals need at least an
hour of sunshine a day, and the location where
they are kept should be carefully selected.

From the response given the nature exhibit in
\Vestchester County it is evident that this type of
recreation should be stressed more and more in our
community recreation programs. Adults as well as
children will be amazed to learn that they need not
go beyond their own backyards to study nature.

With the Union County Park

Commission

oonwonx, leather craft, beadwork, and bas—
ketry proved to be the most popular hand-
craft activities last summer on the playgrounds

children and

Last year the Raleigh. North Carolina. Part:
and Recreation Commission. according to
Miss Mamie Jordan. Supervisor of Playgrounds.
conducted a playground at the State Fair.
The main purpose was to furnish a resting
place for parents with small children and to
provide play activities for the children. Play
equipment made in the Department's workshop
was installed under tents near the main en-
trance to the grounds. Benches were provided
here and around the edge of the playground.
A recreation leader was in charge from [0
A. M. to 6:30 P. M. Approximately 52.000

adults used the

conducted by the Union
County, New Jersey, Park
Commission. Clay modeling
sewing and knitting, crepe
paper and newspaper work
followed close behind these
leaders. Some of the arti-
cles made by boys and
girls included model air-
planes, puppets, door stops,
ring-nose pig games, bird-
houses, dolls, macaroni
and other types of beads,

clay masks, handles for bags, napkin holders, wall
plaques, jigsaw puzzles, leather purses and bill-
folds, belts, aprons, table scarves, book ends, tie
racks, towel holders, monogram pins, baskets,
beach sandals, bracelets, checker games, and vases
made of painted glass jars.

The games and contests which met with high-
est favor included in the order of popularity base-
ball and softball, horseshoe pitching, paddle tennis,
tether ball, bocce, shuffleboard, jackstones, wash-
ers, volleyball, checkers, dodge ball, jackknife,
basketball, foul shooting, and ring tennis. Quiet
games and activities which were leaders in popu-
larity were spud, anagrams, hunibug, charades,
storytelling hour, bingo, black magic, and ghost.

Among the outstanding special activities were
the Joseph Lee Day celebrations, doll shows. baby
parades, pet shows, “unalive” pet shows, pie and
watermelon eating contests, treasure hunts, hobby
shows, hat parades, Mardi gras, Knot Hole Gang
Days, field meets, movies, amateur nights, com-
munity sings, the publication of playground news-
papers, balloon races, scavenger hunts, salmagundi
parties, swing band sessions, circuses, puppet
shows, flag recognition contests, quiz contests,
music memory contests, folk dancing festivals,
handcraft exhibits, nature study programs, and
final night pageants.

Clubs aroused much interest in last summer’s
program. Outstanding among them were athletic,
press and safety patrol groups, and clubs in drama,
nature activities, sewing, folk dancing, poster
making, harmonica playing, and woodworking.
Clean-up squads, too, were popular.

New activities and contests introduced into the
1941 program included lassoing contests, broom
balancing, horse and rider, animal basketball,
broom polo, bombardier contests, hit the chips,
nine men mill, fox hunts, parachutes and skee ball.
These activities were effective in adding new in-
terest to the playground program.

facilities. .

PVHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER 03

Around the Clock on a
City Playground

By MARION STOLL SCHRECK

LAYGROU-ND ACTIVITIES in Louisville, Kentucky,
l P went "into the big top” for three days last
summer during the annual exhibition of the Rec-
reation Division. In and around an- immense tent
set up in a park facing the city’s main street, five
hundred children and adults from neighborhood
playgrounds demonstrated the summer play pro-

gram for local citizens.

The tent and near—by sports area transformed
Lincoln Park into a compact model playground
where unrehearsed groups played games, worked
at handcraft and told stories from nine in the
morning until nine at night. Family groups from
many parts of the city, housewives on shopping
tours, and even business men and store clerks out
for lunch visited the big tent, many of them to
discover for the first time what goes on “around

the clock” at the summer playgrounds.
Near the tent, which faced Fourth Street, a

giant clock with movable hands announced the
program from hour to hour and listed coming at-
tractions. Inside the canvas walls tall panels de-
picted children, young people and adults at play.
Around the arena small platforms, puppet thea-
' ters, game and
handcraft tables
set the stage for T
the regular. activi-
ties, while the cen-
ter was left clear
for featured game
and dance groups.

Outside a large
yard had been im—
provised for use
as a sports area
with a volleyball
court, jumping pit,
paddle tennis
court, goal-hi and
accuracy pitching
target set up for
demonstration
games.

Promptly at nine
o’clock on July
16th, the service

Miss Schreck. who is Assistant Super-
intendent, Division of Recreation,
Louisville. Kentucky. tells how a
playground demonstration. staged in
a huge tent. made it possible for
the citizens of Louisville to have a
picture of what goes on "around the
clock" at the summer playgrounds.

bureau in the big tent opened and the program
demonstration was under way. In one corner a
group of young craftsmen were already busy cut-
ting and pasting and carving. Behind their table,
shelves of craft articles made in playground classes
gave the.booth a professional air. At one of the
miniature theaters several girls were setting the
stage for a marionette show, while a boys’ rhythm
band tuned up for its 9:30 performance. Early
visitors were already crowding around the games
table, and others would soon be eavesdropping in
the storytelling corner.

And thus the day went—one program after an-
other in a many-ringed circus of activity. Bubble
blowers, rope jumpers and game players com-
peted for the attention of the visitors. At mid-
afternoon a band of playground thespians held the
center of the stage; in the evening the big top re-
sounded with specialty music numbers and rounds
of community singing, with everyone joining.

 

Lawn-s: Ditision of Recreation, Luis: me, Kentufk)

64 WHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER

Outside the canvas play center a constant volley
of excited cheers accompanied the day’s program
of games and sports. Paddle tennis, volleyball and
goal-hi courts were kept busy until dark. In the
jumping pits playground boys practiced the broad
and high jump, while others lined up with some
of the braver spectators at the accuracy pitching
target. Hard fought baseball and softball games
climaxed the first day’s program.

For three days the tent and yard lnunmed with
activity. The second day featured a first aid dem-
onstration, radio broadcast, folk dance session, and
doll buggy parade. A play. progressive game
party. and picnic events brought the third day to
a close.

More than seventy-five hundred people filed
through the tent or stopped
to watch the sports activities
in the yard during the three
day exhibit. Some of the
visitors joined in the games
and crafts, others came only
to watch. But so enthusias-
tic was the reception by
Louisville’s citizens that play-
ground leaders of the Recrea-
tion Division are planning a
much more extensive pro-
gram for the 1942 “around
the clock” demonstration.

Some Timely Activities

By ERNEST H. SEIBERT

Supervisor of Recreation
Newark Board of Education

0R MANY SUMMERS Newark, New Jersey, has
F conducted a Learn-to-Swim campaign. Origi-
nally it was directed by the Y.M.C.A. in coopera-
tion with the Department of Public Works, under
whose auspices the two indoor pools were main-
tained. A few years ago, because of its commu-
nity-wide scope, the Y .M.C.A. and the Newark
Recreation Department agreed that the Learn-t0-
Swim campaign should be a function of the Rec-
reation Department. \Vith the concurrence of Dr.
Rolfe, Superintendent of Schools, the activity was
incorporated in the summer program of the Rec-
reation Department. A budget was provided by
the Board of Education, and qualified men and
women recreation teachers from the Department
were employed in the morning as swimming
teachers.

The National Recreation Association is
urging the importance for communities
everywhere of such Learn-to-Swim cam-
paigns as Newark is conducting. "Isn't
this year a particularly good year for
a Learn-to-Swim campaign in every local
recreation system?" the Association asks.
"Shouldn't every man who is likely to
be called up under the draft know how
to swim and swim well? And shouldn't
each one know some of the basic life sav-
ing techniques?" These are timely ques-
tions. How will your city answer them?

The American Red Cross cooperated with tln
Department, and courses covering instructor an(
water safety certificates were held. A number of
teachers had previously qualified. About twenty-
five additional teachers passed the test and iron
this group twenty were selected.

From the beginning the campaign has been suc-
cessfully conducted for six weeks during July and
August. Last summer, with the Opening of four
large outdoor pools, the campaign lost some of its
effectiveness. However, with the increased stress
on the importance of knowing how to swim be-
cause of war conditions, it is expected that there
will be increased interest this year.

In preparing for the campaign, an announce-
ment is sent early in June by the Superintendent
of Schools to all schools, pub-
lic and private, as well as to
youth service organizations.
This letter announces the
campaign and urges that the
matter be brought to the at-
tention of pupils. Printed
entry blanks, sent to the
schools, are taken home
and filled out by parents.
After collection at each school,
they are sent to the head-
quarters of the Recreation
Department.

The blank which is sent to parents for their
signatures reads as follows:

Pleasedetach and fill in this application and return to
your Prmapal on or before June 23rd. The Recreation-

Department will notify you when and where to appear
for instructions.

NAME . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. AGE . . . . . . ..
Please print full name

ADDRESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. CITY . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Bov 0R Gnu. . . . . . . . . . . ..Scnoor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

My child has my permission to take part in the “Learn-
to-Swim Campaign” and I assume full responsibility for
his or her doing so and I hereby agree to indemnify and
save harmless the school, the teacher, the Board of Edu-
cation and the City of Newark from any and all liability
arising out of any accident as a result of said activity.

PARENT’S SIGNATURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Playground Luncheons

One of the new activities undertaken by the
Recreation Department, a carry-over from the
school luncheon project sponsored by the Board
of Education in cooperation with the W PA and
the Surplus Food Commodity Division, has been
the serving of food to playground children. Quali-
fied workers from the “7 PA were assigned to

_ WHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER -65

prepare and distribute the
food (hot luncheons and
cold items such as fresh
fruits, nuts, dried and can-
ned fruits) in the school
kitchen. The project was
supervised by the play—
ground staff as part of the
playground program.

Staff members at the
playgrounds in congested
areas where the program
was carried on have re-
ported favorably on the response from the chil—
dren. In almost all cases a noticeable increase in
weight has been evidenced. Groups of from one
hundred to two hundred children have profited by

this service.

First Aid Instruction

Another timely activity on the Newark play—
grounds is an instructor’s first aid course con-
ducted in cooperation with the American Red
Cross, as a result of which thirty-one teachers in
the Recreation Department’s staff of eighty were
qualified to teach the many groups asking for in-
struction. Facilities of the recreation centers are
being used, and more than 3,000 adults have re-
ceived their Red Cross first aid certificates. Almost
every week additional classes are being formed. In
one recreation center alone there are nine first aid
classes with a teacher assigned to each from the
qualified list. This activity comes under the super-
vision of the recreation teachers assigned to the

playgrounds. I

o ,,
"An American Panorama
By GENEVIEVE L. BRAUN

AST SUMMER the Recreation Department of Ra-
L cine, \Nisconsin, presented a type of pageant
which may be given with a minimum of properties
and by any number of children, and with acts and
script possible of variation to suit the particular
situation and occasion. As it was presented in
Racine, many of the acts of “An American Pano—
rama,” were dances, taught by a leader who visited
eight of the playgrounds regularly. Children whose
home playgrounds were not visited by this worker
were given the opportunity of attending lessons at
some other playground or of participating in an-
other part of the performance. Many of the dances

¢—.

"An American Panorama." the pageant cli-
maxing the |94l playground season in Racine.
Wisconsin. portrayed the visits of a group
of playground children on a good will tour
of North and South America.
from ideas contributed by members of the
playground staff. the pageant helped carry
out the general theme emphasized on all play-
grounds during the summer—that of pro-
moting American ideals and activities. Miss
Braun of the Racine Recreation Department.
who tells the story. is a member of the
statt ot the Department of Physical Educa-
tion for Women. University of Minnesota.

were taught at several play—
grounds, the children then
combining their efforts at
the final performance. This
simplified the costume
problem since girls of the
same height could be
grouped together.

Dancing classes were
held during the entire eight
weeks of the season, and
children were required to
be present at a minimum
number of practices before being allowed to par-
ticipate in the pageant. Other acts not involving
dancing were under the supervision of various
play leaders who scheduled practices at their own
discretion.

The pageant was held at one of the largest play—
grounds of the city. On the day before the per-
formance, play leaders brought their groups to this
place for the one and only complete rehearsal. Chil—
dren gathered in the gymnasium of the community
center building on the playground, and this served
as a dressing room. Signs were placed at the
spaces where children in the various acts were to
meet. Once there, the play leader sent her charges
to their groups and then supervised all the chil-
dren of one particular act for the entire show.
Thus, everyone knew where to go, and each play
leader had a specific job. “

The stage was a grassy area 150 feet long and
100 feet wide, well defined by ropes and illumi-
nated by lights from surrounding baseball dia-
monds. While this may seem rather large for a
stage, previous experience showed that an audi-
ence as large as 4,000 people could not be ade—
quately handled around a smaller space. Bleacher
seats for 3,000 people surrounded two sides of the
stage, while the remaining audience sat on the
grass or-stood on the third side.

The backdrop, a canvas fifty feet long and ten
feet high, showed a panoramic view of several of
the American scenes later portrayed in the pag-
eant. Performers sat on low benches in front of
this scenery during the complete show. Since this
enabled each of the two hundred actors to see every-
thing, everyone was satisfied and no problems of
discipline arose.

All costumes were provided by the Recreation
Department. For several years this department

has been building a supply of costumes, each year
adding a few more. Thus, many of the old

Developed

66 WHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER

costumes were used and some new ones were made
by NYA and \V PA workers. The costumes worn
in this pageant may easily be made of either crepe
paper or cloth, and can be designed to fit the size
of the budget.

Music was provided by a small orchestra aided
by a good amplifying system. This was also used
in reading the script which provided the necessary
continuity during the performance.

It may be emphasized that any number of chil-
dren may participate in each act, the larger the
number, the more effective the act. Solo acts are
not good, and very often they are not representa-
tive of things learned on the playground. Duplica-
tion of children in two or more acts should not be

allowed.

0

The Pageant Program

After the introduction, the travelers appeared
in short yellow dresses with tams to match. Since
this was a tap dance, and the stage a grassy sur-
face, they carried small wooden boxes as suitcases
and danced on them. The bears danced in brown
and white suits, leftovers from a previous play-
ground circus. Eskimo costumes were white, com-
plete with parka hoods and mittens. (Snow suits
could be substituted.)

The starlets’ act was a simple dance involving
thirty small performers aged five to seven. Their
costumes consisted of halter tops and ruffled skirts
made of crepe paper. A band with a silver star on
it was worn around the head.

The cowboy act was worked out entirely by a
group of boys on one playground, who were sup-
plied with wooden stick horses and large hats, but
provided their own costumes. The scene involved
songs around a campfire, followed by a mock bat-
tle wth "cattle rustlers.

The Indian and Spanish dances were typical, the
Indians with tom-toms, and the Spanish with tam-
bourines. The bull fight which followed was worked
out by a group of boys.

The New Orleans Mardi gras provided a set-
ting for several miscellaneous acts. In the parade,
the king and queen were carried by ten boys on a
platform made from a ping-pong table top. Large
masks similar to those of the dwarfs from Snow
White were worn by seven of the boys. Clowns
added comedy to the parade with their antics. Since
stilt walking was a popular playground activity,
twenty children dressed in red, white and blue
walked in the parade on stilts wound with crepe
paper of the same colors.

Immediately after the parade the clowns did
their tumbling act on mats which were easily car-
ried on and off the stage.

The polka dancers comprised the largest single
groups, being nearly forty in number. Though the.
dance was simple, the formations and varicolored
peasant dresses made it interesting.

The Roman ladder act included both girls and
boys, and was supervised by a play leader who
was an expert in this type of work. The ballet
and scarf dance done by girls in traditional ballet
dresses climaxed the Mardi gras portion of the
program.

Since the sailors and cotton-pickers required a
wooden floor, nine ping-pong table tops were car-
ried on the stage by assisting boys. The minuet
dancers performed behind this part of the stage.

Baton twirling, a fad among school children at
this time, provided a spectacular climax to the
show. \Vhile these children were performing, all
other people in the pageant slowly walked out
behind them for the final song in which the audi-
ence also participated.

Championship Day

By GEORGE A. FAIRHEAD

Superintendent of Recreation
Danville, Illinois

N MAKING THE PLANS for last summer’s play—
I ground .program, it was decided to keep to a:
minimum the number of activities calling for com-

etition between different playgrounds. The rea-
sons for this decision were the dangers involved in:
children’s traveling; the absence of leaders from
their playgrounds, leaving too many children with-
out guidance; the neglect of regular playground
activities in order to prepare for the interplay-
ground events; and, finally, the advantages inl-
volved in conducting the same competitive events
on each playground with a larger total of par-
ticipation.

It was decided to concentrate on a Champion~
ship Day and to make this the outstanding day
of the summer. The event was scheduled near the
end of the season to permit plenty of time fox
practicing the various events. It was also thought
that such a plan would result in maintaining in-‘
terest throughout the season. Playground leaderti
were encouraged to plan a picnic on that day t(
eliminate travel at noon and to give greater oppora

«I

WHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER 67

tunity for children from all grounds to renew old
friendships and make new acquaintances.

The winners of events on this day were to be
officially recognized as city champions for the year
and to receive a ribbon to the effect if they placed
first, second, or third. The events for boys and
girls up to thirteen years of age were croquet, pad-
dle tennis, tether ball, dart throwing, and bean bag
throwing. The events for boys and girls thirteen
through sixteen years included paddle tennis, tether
ball, table tennis, archery, horseshoes (boys), and
croquet (girls). These events were concluded by
three o’clock in the afternoon, and the balance of
the day was given over to special events and events
for the champions of various playgrounds.

One of these was the storytelling contest which
brought together the various playground cham-
pions of a similar contest held at each location.
The rules for both playground and Championship
Day contests were as follows:

There was one age group with both boys and
girls eligible. No story could be over ten minutes
in length. Contestants were permitted to use any
materials they desired for illustration, emphasis,
and Showmanship. They were judged in the fol-
lowing manner: voice, 25 points; interest, 50
points; presentation and costume, 25 points.

Another event in this group was the sand model—
ing contest for the champion and runner-up of
each playground. The sand around the wading
pool was used for this event, and each child had
approximately 100 square feet of space. The
sand was all prepared for use ahead of time.
Rules for both playground and Championship
Day contests were as follows: There was just
one age classification including boys and girls.
The contestants might model anything they de-
sired and they could use tools, equipment, and

other articles for looks and ease of modeling. The
maximum time allotted was two hours. Judging
was on the following basis: difficulty of design
(characteristics expressed, .proportion,and action),
50 points; craftsmanship (attention to detail), 25
points; neatness, I5 points; implements used, IO
points.

From the craft department of the various play-
grounds the following items were entered in the
exhibit and judged on design, workmanship, and
originality: two lanterns from their lantern parade,
and two articles from each of the following—tin
craft, leather craft, woodcraft, cloth craft, and glass.

Championship Day in 1941 was a huge success
not only from the standpoint of participation on
that day, but as a factor in keeping up enthusiasm
throughout the summer and enabling the leaders
to promote and conduct more activities on their
home playgrounds instead of spending time on a
number of interplayground competitions.

An Adventure in Nature Lore

By TELURA SWIM
Superintendent
Recreation Department
Piedmont. California

NCB UPON A TIME there was a small recrea-
0 tion department which had large ambitions,
high ideals and recreation neighbors older in years
and experience and with greater resources on

 
  
  
  

A storytelling contest was

one of the special events

in Danville's popular Cham-
pionship Day program

68 WHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER

which to call. This situation constituted a real
challenge to the new recreation “infant” to de-
velop a program which would meet the needs of
the community and be a unique contribution.

Since the department was serving a community
where appreciation of the fine arts was high, the
plan was conceived _of stressing handcraft, nature
lore, dramatics. and pageantry. All these activities
over a period of years have developed into an out-
standing program for so small a department. The
pOpularity of the May Festival, for example, has
made it traditional, and an eagerly anticipated
event.

In the beginning nature lore was an uncertain
adventure. \Vith the department limited in the
number of its leaders, the question of why, where
and how seemed to present unsurmountable ob-
stacles. \Vhy should the playground be left to
serve small groups outside? \Vhere could the chil-
dren go to find material, and how could they pro-
ceed with so few facilities?

\Vildwood playground adjacent to beautiful
Piedmont Park proved to be the solution. The
first trips were taken to the park on Saturday
afternoons under the supervision of the Wildwood
leader. Collections were made and brought to the
playground where the mounting of leaves and the
making of spatter prints and nature books aroused
the interest of other children. Then the groups
grew in numbers and interest.

The next step involved all-day hikes with picnic
lunches. These groups were composed of both
boys and girls.

After a hiking season of experimentation and
increasing enjoyment, someone suggested staying
overnight. The regional parks were being de-
veloped in the Berkeley Hills. They seemed to
offer the logical camping site. Then our present
camping system came into being.

These first camps were nature camps only and
were'organized on separate dates for boys and for
girls. The maximum number allowed to a camp
was twenty-five, under three leaders, men for boys
and women for girls, with a long-suffering father
added to the girls’ camps for physical safety in the
lonely wilds.

The camps were primitive; bed rolls and open
fires were the sole luxuries.
The first was a girls’ trip and
a humorous and gayly illustrat-
ed log was kept from which the
following excerpts were taken.

From the nature lore activities spon-
sored by the Piedmont Recreation De-
partment has grown one of the most
unique camps in the recreation field. five.

“The Tale of the Gypsy Trail”

“The chosen camp site seemed welcome
after the long journey and lunch was quickly
devoured, after which occurred an afternoon of
exploring and discovery, resulting in the cap-
ture of two salamanders. These lizards were
immediately crowned mascots of the camp.

“Just as the sun must rise, so the night
must fall: and it did in all its glory. Never
had the moon shone brighter nor more mel-
low; never had the eventide seemed more
peaceful. Life was truly worth living. Hilari-
ous laughter and joyous songs rang from the
congenial campfire gathering. Topped with a
generous watermelon feed and marshmal-
lows, the program was completed and every-
one prepared for bed.

“True to tradition sleep did not reign for a
long time. When it did a few of the more
observant noticed a slight fog gathering over-
head and a complete disappearance of nature’s
light bulb. Without warning, the almighty
heavens opened up as if letting forth a cen-
tury of pent up anger and thrust a bolt of
lightning at us in sheer impudence. Simul-
taneously thunder and rain presented them-
selves without discretion.

“Shelter being immediately necessary, two
members of the party broke the latch of a
near-by storage hut with the c00perative ef-
forts of the frying pan handle, hatchet and
muscle, staging the rescue of six small cherubs
and their damp blankets.”

This is a fragmentary picture of our early be-
ginnings in nature camping. As the years pass, the
nature work and camps grow in interest and ex-
panded programs. Camps still stress nature lore,
but divide interest with swimming and athletics,
stunts and dramatics. They are still primitive, well
organized and supervised, and are shifting in
location.

The best balanced meals by nutrition experts
are served for the least cost on record. The trans—
portation is furnished by parents; the supplies are
carried by city trucks. The time limit has been
extended from one night to three days and two
nights; the distance from five
and six miles to thirty-five'
and forty miles, and the num-
ber limit for groups is forty-

WHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER 69

Mohomet and a ayground The courthouse is situated in the heart of the
business district at the intersection of the town’s

By PATRICK A. TORK two busiest streets, Adams and Jefferson. The
superimtendenJr of playgrounds lawn is bordered by Adams Street on the left and
Fairmont wes+ Virginia ’Jefferson Street on the right. It has a small fence

around it about waist high, making it ideal for a
show place.

DURING MOST of last summer we conducted a On Friday evening the following facilities,
search for a more effective way than we had equipment, and apparatus were installed: a twelve
yet discovered of bringing the people of our city foot slide, two swing units, a volleyball court, a
into closer contact with the playground program badminton court, a horseshoe court, one see-saw
and of giving them a more comprehensive picture unit, two tether units, one sand box, a ring toss
of its true scope and activities. During this period board, and a toss ball set. A shuffleboard court
we recalled the ancient was laid out just out—

side the lawn areas on
the sidewalk, and cro-
quet was played in the
Space between the bad-
minton court and the
fence. Handcraft and
quiet game tables were
placed near the fence,
and a display of com—
pleted handcraft items
was set up on the grass
near by. Most of the
equipment and appara-
tus used for the exhibi-
tion was made by work-
ers of the Playground
Association. _

A regular program of
playground activities

saying, “If the moun-
tain will not come to
Mohomet, Mohomet
must go to the moun-
tain,” and out of this
came an idea of build—
ing a complete play-
ground on the court-
house lawn in the heart
of our city.

We first approached
the commissioners of the
Marion County Court
for permission to place
the playground on the
lawn. We told them that
if contributions for our
playground program
were to be made to the

 

Community Chest, 1% _ _ V. «i was conducted from
through which the play-    ..    .  .. ..     9 :00 A. M. Saturday
grounds are financed, the move- Senator Rosier, President Of the until 8230 P. M.  0f the City
ment in Fairmont must be “sold” Fairm°”+ Playground A55°CEali°nn playground workers served in

takes a hand in the demonstration

each year to the general public. their regular capacities during

Court members listened atten- designated periods. The play-
tively as we explained further that many hundreds grounds were organized in groups of twos, and
:Iof our citizens had probably never seen a play- each group had charge of the program for a two
ground and knew very little of its operation. At hour period. The children were brought in from
Ithe end of our presentation the Court voiced its the regular playgrounds for their scheduled play
approval and we set about the task of making our period on the courthouse lawn. The schedule for
'idea a reality. the playgrounds was as follows:
Morris Park and State Street playgrounds,
our DemonStration Playground 10:00 A.M. until 12:00 noon; Dunbar and Brick-
Saturday, August 16th, was the day selected for yard, Negro playgrounds, 12 :00 until 2:00; Flem-
the demonstration. This particular day was pay ing and East Hi playgrounds, 2:00 until 4:00;
day for the industries of the county and city, and Shaw and Speedway playgrounds, 4:00 until 6:00;
as large crowds were in town all day long many Miller and Barnes, 6:00 until 8:30 P. M.
had the opportunity of seeing the playground and The program of activities consisted of swinging,

the children in action. sliding, see-sawing, badminton, volleyball, tether

70 WHEN SCHOOLS CLOSE FOR THE SUMMER

tennis, shuftieboard, toss '

ball, ring toss, horseshoes;
table games of checkers,
dominoes, Chinese checkers,
jacks, and others. A table
was conveniently arranged
showing children at work on
handcraft projects under the
leadership of the instructor.
On cards near-by were dis-

Willres-Barre's playground pageant. which
was based on stories of our national bal-
lads. was simple but effective. Any num-
ber of children may take part in it. and
it lends itself really to adaptation.
The reader's part was arranged from C. A.
Brown's "The Story of Our National Ballads"
by Miss Ruth Swezey. who states that the
arrangement may be secured from the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of Wy-
oming Valley. Wilkes-Barre. Pennsylvania.
for the cost of mimeographing the script.

had proved particularly
colorful and patriotic in
theme.

The pageant was based on

the book, The Story of Our
National Ballads, by C. A.
Brown and permission was
given by the publisher,
Thomas Y. Crowell Com-
pany, to use any part of the

played completed craft ob—

jects consisting of model

planes, needlework, sponge rubber, wood, leather,
and various other types. As a featured part of
each group’s activity, a fifteen minute program of
entertainment was provided consisting of singing,
stunts, music, and acrobatics. This was enthusias-
tically received by the large audience that looked on.

Many new games were demonstrated which were
unfamiliar to the public. One prominent attorney,
after watching the children play badminton, asked
where he might get a set for himself. Several
adults were moved to participate in the various
activities in spite of the fact that they were for chil-
dren. Among the older checker players who
took part were a number of men ranging in age
from fifty-five to eighty years.

\Ve were gratified to find that the children
played with little regard for the fact that they were
constantly being watched. Their enjoyment was
complete and their participation free from restraint
and self-consciousness. Several children on the
sidewalks who inquired whether there was any
charge for playing were cordially invited to take
part. A number of mothers brought their children
into the playground and watched them play. Others
left their children and returned for them later.

Many favorable comments were offered by
county and city officials, representatives of private
agencies, and other citizens.

National Ballads in Song
and Story

By RUTH SWEZEY

Executive Director
Playground and Recreation Association
of Wyoming Valley. Pa.

THREE THOUSAND CHILDREN took part in the
pageant which climaxed the 1941 playground
program in \Vilkes-Barre, Pa.—a program which

script of the book.

The ballads told of the
historical development of our country, beginning
with “Yankee Doodle,” the war song of the Rev-
olution. As the reader told the story of each ballad
over the microphone, the children, of whom there
were 150 in each group, came forward to the
strains of the music of the ballad in costumes ap-
pr0priate to the period. The “Yankee Doodle”
episode was headed by a group representing the
Spirit of ’76. The verses were sung by'one voice
over the microphone, the children joining in the
chorus with gestures. A dance to “Yankee Doodle”
followed.

\Vhen the National Anthem was played by the
band, everyone stood at attention and a large flag,
the flag with the fifteen stars and stripes which
fiew over Fort McHenry in the war of 1812, was
carried down the field in a horizontal position with
the children surrounding it. This proved very
effective.

“Home, Sweet Home, the greatest of peace
songs, was particularly well adapted to pageantry.
The reader told the story. \Vhen the band on the
northern bank had played the “Star-Spangled
Banner,” “Hail Columbia” or some other national
air, the boys in blue cheered lustily, and when
the band on the southern bank played "Dixie,"
“Bonnie Blue Flag” or some other southern
melody, the boys in gray signified their apprecia-
tion with the old Confederate yell. But when taps
were sounded, one of the bands struck up the notes
of “Home, Sweet Home.” There was a moment
of silence and then the other band took up the
strain which swelled into one great anthem.

Some of the other tunes used were “Marching
Through Georgia” to which the children did 2
square dance. Roosevelt’s Rough Riders held the
attention of the audience when “A Hot Time it
the Old Town” was played.

“The Yanks Are Coming” ushered in the spiri.
of the first \Vorld \‘Var. Then came “God Bles.

(Continued on page 112)

J!

Somersaults and circuses! There's
a combination that never fails to
suit the most fastidious taste!

 A

  
 

.‘

Print by Gedgc Harmon

The Circus Comes to the Playground

A Playground Circus

in Wilmette
By DANIEL M. DAVIS

Director
Playground and Recreation Board

WELVE HUNDRED residents of W'ilmette, Illi—
Tnois, enthusiastically applauded the playground

circus which preceded by a week the final clos—
ing of the villages two playgrounds.

In planning the performance, it was decided
that the main show would be the responsibility of
one playground, while the other would take charge
of the side shows and concession stand.

Materials used were inexpensive and simple.
The children wore costumes of the “hand-me—
down” or made-over variety, or inexpensive cre—

ations made by parents or by the children them- '

selves with the help of staff members. The equip—
ment, such as circus animals, ambulance, and a
covered wagon, were constructed on the play—
grounds. The children decorated their bicycles and
wagons for the circus and the parade. N orthwest—
ern University provided the old tarpaulin which
was used to conceal the side show.

Publicity was given the circus through the com—
munity’s weekly and the distribution by the chil-
dren of notices left at homes in the neighborhoods
surrounding the playgrounds. On the day of the
circus the playgrounds did their most effective ad-
vertising when circus performers paraded through
various sections of the village.

All of the children registered at the playgrounds
were invited to take part in the circus. The entire

(Continued on page 116)

A Circus and Variety Show

for Painesville

By STANLEY PRAGUE

Director of Recreation
Painesville. Ohio

to be on Main Street in the early evening

hours of August 8th last were astonished to
see coming down the street behind a motorcycle
escort a number of clowns and a wagon containing
a bull, two elephants, and a skunk.

RESIDENTS 0F Painesville, Ohio, who chanced

The second street parade of the Painesville
Playground Circus was on the road! Four years
ago the Recreation Department organized a show
which attracted more than a thousand spectators.
This was followed the next year by a second suc—
cessful show. The third year the Department added
a small circus number which was so popular that
in 1941 half the program was made up of circus
numbers.

Problems galore beset the promoters of the cir—
cus, but all were surmounted by the cooperation
of individuals and groups.

First of all came the problem of a platform or
stage. In former shows a small platform borrowed
from the high school had been adequate, but with
animals as performers it was a different story. A
local builder, approached for the use of cement
blocks, consented to loan some but asked remuner—
ation for all blocks damaged. When we went to
collect the blocks, he had ready for us a pile of
good seconds with which he presented us.

(Continued on page 115)
71

uKeep

playground programs this

year, recreation leaders
have a real Opportunity to
“keep in tune with the times.”
Perhaps many of us will con-
tinue to have pet and doll
shows and certainly we shall
not eliminate softball and vol-
leyball, but how can we en-
rich the program so that chil-
dren will be learning activi-
ties which will be helpful in
the war effort?

Every child should have a

I N DEVELOPI NG summer

in Tune with the Times"

By THOMAS W. LANTZ
Superintendent of Public Recreation

City of ReadingI Pennsylvania

It is generally agreed that the summer
playground program. as well as the com-
munity-wide recreation program, must be
subiect to some changes and adaptations
to meet wartime conditions and demands.
There will no doubt be some differences
of opinion as to the extent and charac-
ter of the changes. It is. however. a prob-
lem which all recreation workers are

facing, and a free discussion of the sub-

ject is urged. Mr. Lantz has "started
the ball rolling" in this article. Let
us have your comments and suggestions.

well be converted into a tra-
veling machine shop with a
competent mechanic in charge.
Knitting and sewing among
girls should be stressed.
Model airplane building will
make the boys more airplane
conscious. \Ve should not
neglect to exercise, through
the handcraft program, an
appreciation of the finer things
in our everyday living which
will contribute to a happier

life.
The storytelling hour might

fairly good knowledge of first
aid. Instead of teaching first
aid to children in the usual manner, why not in-
struct them through the play method? For ex-
ample, the use of the triangle bandage could be
taught by having a relay race between two groups;
how to drag an insensible man might well approxi-
mate the game of the human wheel barrow race.

To add glamour to your program, use the neigh-
borhood fire company to teach boys, particularly
between the ages of fourteen and nineteen years
of age, how to connect a hose between a fire en-
gine and a fire hydrant; how to extinguish incen-
diary bombs. VVho knows when these boys may
be called upon for this service?

By using the Athletic Badge Tests for Boys and
Girls, you will surely be “keeping in tune with the
times.” Every boy ought to be physically efficient
and every girl should have poise and control over
her body. \Vhether the nation’s health has been
getting better or worse is still a controversial
issue. An excerpt from the New Y ark Times
Magazine, February 22, 1942, states “Out of the
first 2,000,000 young men who walked up to the
selective service and army induction boards for ex-
amination, 900,000 walked away rejected for mili-
tary service because of disease or physical defects.
That statement alone should make us enthusiastic
to better America’s physical efficiency rating.

For every soldier at the front, eight men are
needed behind the lines in industry; consequently
it behooves us to teach the proper manipulation
and respect for tools through our handcraft pro-
gram. If practical, the traveling theater might

72

well have a patriotic theme.
Prepare a long list of stories

such as “The Rescue of Old Glory,” “The Log
Cabin Boy,” and “Their Flag.” Ask your public
library to set aside story books so that they will
always be on the reserved list for your leaders
during the summer playground season. A city-
wide storytelling contest might be held and the
winners could repeat their stories over the radio.

Instead of the customary “end of the season”
pageant, why not organize a patriotic parade, using
the children who come to the playground, neigh-
borhood associations, athletic leagues and other
recreation groups? President Roosevelt has already
said “we need more parades.” You will be doing
a good public relations job by showing the thou-

sands of participants in your program and at
the same time contributing to the morale of
your community.

Dramatic stunts need not be eliminated. There
are many good ones with a patriotic flavor, such
as, “On the Eve of the Fourth,” “America, We
Love Thee," “Columbus Discovers America.”
Good Titties for All Times by Nina B. Lamkin
will be a helpful book in developing a Fourth of
July program. On this holiday there is an oppor-
tunity to use much simple dramatics which will be
in keeping with the times. Your public library
will be useful to you in locating dramatic materials.

Because music helps to maintain morale, creates
an atmosphere of sympathetic understanding, com-
radeship, accord and unity, it should have a very

(Continued on page 110)

Some Novel Play Equipment

1118 SUMMER at camps
and at play centers

everywhere physical fit-
ness will be stressed through-
out the program. The im—
l portance of this emphasis,
‘ made necessary by the war
emergency, must not blind
us, however, to the value of
arts and crafts, music, drama,
and similar activities.
It is true that many phases
of the recreation program
will be affected to some de-

By MARGUERITE ICKIS

These suggestions are for play leaders in
all fields of leisure-time activities who
have the imagination to see that the war
emergency demands adaptations in their
program and a new crop of ideas! If you
are a leader in a playground for little chil-
dren or a recreation director at an institu-
tion; it you are a camp counselor or a club
leader: if you are a mother whose backyard
is the neighborhood gathering place: or if
you are a part of any of the many services
concerned with meeting recreational needs
of groups of people. we believe that there
is something here for you and your program!

dressed pine seven-eighths
inch thick and two inches
wide. The two upright pieces
called “stiles” run the full
length of the. panel. The
three pieces running cross-
wise are called “battens,”
They should be cut the
width of the panel minus the
width of the two stiles. The
battens are placed at each
end and in the middle, as
shown in the illustration. If

gree by war needs. Because

of priorities it may be increasingly difficult to
secure rubber balls and other athletic equipment
in which rubber is used; certain supplies will be
lacking for the arts and crafts program. This pre—
sents a real challenge to the play leader and camp
director and calls upon all his resourcefulness in
making adaptations and substitutions.

So why not direct the interest of the children
into new fields? Here is one suggestion: There
are novel pieces of equipment whose construction
and use in new situations will stimulate the imagi—
nation of the children in devising activities which
may result in developing new interests and skills.
A few of them are described in the following pages:

'A Three-PaneledScreen

One of the most useful pieces of equipment that
can be devised is a three-

            

you have the proper machin-
ery, dovetail the pieces of
wood together at the corners and in the middle.
Otherwise fasten the battens to the stiles with
glue and re-enforce them by adding a piece of
three—ply veneer wood as shown in Fig. 2.

To enable you to take the screen apart and make
it more Hexible, the panels should be fastened to-
gether with the type of hinge that is held together
at the center with a loose pin, as shown in Fig. 3.
A large nail or piece of wire may be substituted
for the pin if you wish to make your own hinge.

You may cover the screen with almost any ma-
terial, but before making your selection you may
wish to consider using corrugated cardboard as a
base. It is inexpensive (you may secure it from
packing boxes), light in weight, and the surface
is smooth enough to be painted or covered with
cloth. If no expense is involved you will be able
to cover the screen

     

Paneled Screen' (See — — — Often“-
Fig. I.) It may be made ' ‘r ‘ r
in any size but each POSSible USES for
panel should always be ‘ the screen
one—half as wide as it is ; Bulletin Board. When
. high. For instance, if - the screen is not needed
you wish to make a for a special event, it
screen six feet high each ' makes an excellent bul-
panel should be three letin board. If you have
feet wide. This will give I only a few notices to
it good balance for plac- FIG. I post, fold the two sides
mg it in different posi- l  of the screen back and

 

tions.

To make the screen.
Each panel is made
from live pieces of

 

 

use the center panel for

a small board. If you
wish to use the entire
screen for bulletin pur-

73

FIG. 3

 

74 SOME NOVEL PLAY EQUIPMENT

 

poses. the board will be more effective if you paint
a border along the top and bottom or decorate it
in some way. One advantage of using a screen for
a bulletin board is that it can be easily moved from
place to place.

Puppet Stage. 3y covering the frame (with the
exception of the upper middle screen) with some
gay material, it becomes a puppet stage. (Fig. 4.)
If it is to be used for a real Punch and Judy show,
cover it with a Roman striped material. A cloth
curtain should be hung at the opening to screen
the stage.

Drama Sets. If you are giving a play out of doors
or in a room which has no stage, no matter how
simple the. play or skit may be a little scenery will
add to the importance of the production. Just re-
member that sometimes suggestion is more effec-
tive than reality in the theater, and that simplicity
lends more charm than studied effects. The screen
will give you an opportunity to bring a portion of a
garden wall to the stage for an outdoor setting—
see Fig. 5—or a picture of a door or window will
suggest a room scene. For this purpose the screen
may be covered with wrapping paper fastened to
the frame with thumb tacks. Scenes may be
painted with tempera paint (the powdered paints
are even cheaper) or they may be drawn in with
pastel chalk or crayon. Make your designs and
colors hold so they may be seen from a distance.

Bazaar Booths. \\'ith a little imagination and
ingenuity the screen may be turned into a bazaar
booth. This can be done in a number of ways.
Figure 6 shows a novel way of adding a roof. If
you do not want a roof, you may reverse the upper
scallops to give it an interesting line along the top.

Room Decoration. The screen may also be used
as a room decoration. If you have material that
must be piled against the wall because of lack of

closet space place the screen in front of it
and decorate it to blend with other fur-
niture in the room. A screen will also give
you an opportunity to supply an addi-
tional note to your color scheme. and it
can be easily changed if you want to vary
it according to the different seasons.

By folding back the two sides of the
screen it is possible to attach a large sil-
houette of an animal, a figure dressed in a
folk costume. or anything else that sug-
gests a theme for your party (See Fig.
7.) If you are charging admission to your
function, the screen may be used as a change booth
by cutting an opening somewhere near the center

for use as a window by the person receiving the
tickets.

An All-Purpose Cart

A cart such as the one shown in the illustration
on the following page is simple to make. and if
painted in bright colors will have a special appeal
for the children. The cart merits new lumber for
its construction, but if funds are not available for
the purpose it can be built very inexpensively by
utilizing scrap lumber found around the carpen-
ter’s shop and adding wheels such as are used on
a child's wagon. In fact, if you want to make a
temporary cart for only one season’s use, the body
of the cart may be made from a large wooden
packing box of the same general shape, arranged
so the open end becomes the cupboard. The box

at the top _and the shelves at the sides may be
made from scrap lumber.

No attempt is made here to work out dimen-
sions for the cart as the size will depend on the
use you expect to make of it. If it is to be used
for crafts, it should be the right height for the

 

SOME NOVEL PLAY EQUIPMENT 75

craftsman who is working while seated at the table.
If the cart is to be handled by children, keep the
size to a minimum as you must allow for added
weight after it is loaded with materials.

You will find the box arrangement at the top
very serviceable, and the design can be easily
changed according to the way it is to be utilized.
For example, if the cart is to be used by craft
groups, you may want to put glass doors on each
side of the box to provide a
show case for finished arti-
cles. A more utilitarian
purpose for the box would
be as a container for tools
or small craft materials such

as nails, screws, needles,
thread and thimbles. The

lids of the box should be
hinged at the bottom so that
the box can remain uncov—
ered while the group is
working at the table. A
small canopy for the top will
lend color to the cart and
make possible its use on
unshaded sections of the
play area. Notice the four
poles held in place by
metal hooks along the
side of the cart when it

is not in use. (See Fig.
8.) To arrange for the
canOpy, drill four holes
in each comer of the
table top at- an outward
slant, taking care that the
holes do not go all the
way through the board.
If the canopy poles fit
into the table holes se-
curely, they will stand a
without support and hold the cloth taut.

The body of the cart becomes a storage box by
inserting shelves of three—ply fir and adding doors
at both ends. A partition should be placed down
the center of the cupboard, otherwise the. shelves
will be too deep for convenience. By adding a
hinge and hasp on the doors at the center, it will
be possible to use a padlock to lock up your ma—
terial between sessions. (Fig.9.)

, Suggested Uses

Craft Table. Suggestions have already been of-
fered for adapting the cart to the use of craft

 

groups. These groups should be encouraged to
keep it in repair, decorate it between seasons, and
be reSponsible for it when it is not in use by other
groups. A canopy decorated with appliqued figures
or designs stenciled on heavy muslin or canvas
should be a popular project for any craftsman.
Traveling Puppet Show. Like the wandering en-
tertainers of old, the puppeteers can load their
puppets and stage properties in the cupboards
underneath the cart and go
to different parts of the camp
or from street to street to
present their shows.The box
across the t0p makes an ex-
cellent Opening for a stage,
particularly if finger or hand
puppets are used. If you
have a curtain at the win-
dow and arrange the benches
in front of it on one side of
the cart, it will not take
much imagination for the
audience to realize that a
show is about to begin.

For Foods. If a group is
planning to cook a meal
out of_doors, a cart should
be very handy. All of the
food can be stored in the
cupboard underneath and
the breakable things in
the box at the top where
they are easily packed.
After the food has been
cooked, the cart may be-

come a serving table.
A’r Bazaars. The cart

may also be used at ba-
zaars or other special oc-
casions for displaying
foods and various articles
on sale. \Vith a little imagination and resource-
fulness it can be decorated to fit into any theme you
have in mind for the day.

Combination Table and Settee

This piece of furniture will not only lend a gay
note to a backyard or a play area, but it can be
used a number of ways by very small children.
Very little skill is required to draw up a working
plan for this project, and even an amateur at

handling tools should be able to fit the pieces
tcgether.

76 SOME NOVEL PLAY EQUIPMENT

The main body is made from four large pieces
of wood: the two hobby horses for the-sides and
two rectangular pieces—one for the top of the table
and the other to be placed underneath about twelve
inches from the ground.

Two shelves, six inches in width, are attached to
each side of the table top by hinges. \Vhen the
table is in use, they are held upright by swinging
outward a small board from underneath. The table
leaves must be raised to allow room for the chil-
dren’s knees while the table is in use.

The lower shelf is used for storing materials
when the table is being used by craft groups, or if
it is to be‘used as a lunch table the dishes may be
placed there between courses. \Vhen the table is
not in use, the leaves may be dropped to cover the
shelf on each side, and by adding a padlock it is
possible to lock up materials over night.

Another reason for
adding the under shelf
is that it makes it pos-
sible to convert the
table into a settee
should you need it for
that purpose. By swing-
ing the table top up-
ward and to the back,
it becomes a back rest
and the shelf becomes
a seat. The side shelves
attached to the table
top will not interfere as one will fall down and
remain Hat along the top, while the other will fold
up at the back. (See Fig. 10.) The principle in—
volved is the same
as that used in the
making of the com-
bination bench and
table formerly used
on farm porches and
now sought after by
the antique shops.

The table may be
made in any size,
but we might sug-
gest that one 4’ long,
18” wide and 18”
high would be a
convenient size for
moving it about.
The width of the
side shelves should
be kept to the mini-

 

 

mum if you are making a combination table and
settee so they will not interfere when the table top
is used in an upright position for a back rest.

You will find that five-ply fir is the most eco—
nomical wood to use for the construction. Besides
it comes in panels large enough to allow you to
cut the various parts from a single piece of wood.
thus saving the trouble of gluing the pieces to-
gether. If the ends are covered well with paint or
varnish, it will not warp as readily as other woods
if left out of doors.

Since the features of the hobby horses will be
more effective if painted on in different colors, you
will want to use a quick drying enamel as a finish
for the wood. The canopy may be made from can—
vas or denim and designs stenciled on with oil
paint or printer’s ink. The cover is stretched over
a wooden frame and tacked in place as shown in
Fig. 11.

Wooden Cabinet

A cabinet such as the one shown in Fig. 12 on
the following page is not only a useful but a neces-
sary piece of equipment in camp and parents may
find it a convenience for use in the backyard as a
tool cabinet or as a storage closet for supplies.

You can keep the children’s unfinished articles
in it between sessions. If y0u have only one
cabinet in your craft room, it may be used for
both purposes. Put your tools in the upper part
(it is easier to check them) and make a supply
closet underneath.

As a practical suggestion. it is urged that a
definite place for each item be set aside on the
shelves and that
labels be tacked un-
derneath. If you use
the back of the
door or the wall of
the cabinet for tools,
paint an outline or
silhouette of each
tool in red to desig—
nate its proper po-
sition. This will en-
able you to check
missing tools at a
glance. A small
label bearing the
name of the tool
and pasted beneath
its place in the cabi-
net will familiarize

\

the craftsman with
the proper names.
Pegs, straps or hooks
can be utilized in
helping to keep the
material in order.

It is much less ex-
pensive to build a
cabinet than it is to
buy one ready—made,
and for this reason
we are presenting a
list of materials nec—
essary for the cabi-
net shown in the il—
lustration. This par—
ticular cabinet meas-
ures two feet eight
inches by one foot
two inches by five
feet eight inches. The
materials necessary
include the following :

Ponderosa white
pine—19’ X 12” x I”

White pine— 30’

x 2" x $5”
3—ply fir—2 panels
“72” x 36” X %”

8 hinges—2V2”

4 wooden knobs——
I”

If you to
make only _one sec—
tion to hang on the
wall, divide the quan-
tity of material by two or if you want to

«———————2'

want

cabinet of a different size you may work out the
ratio according to the dimensions in the illustration.

Standards

If it is necessary to replace your metal
standards this year, a wooden standard
such as that shown in Fig. I 3 may be
substituted by using some other material
as a base to give it added weight. This
can be done by using a hollow box for the
base, filling it with cement after the cen—
ter post has been inserted and fastened
securely underneath. If the standard is
to be used outside, it should be treated
with several coats of weather-proof var-
nish or clear lacquer as added protection.

WOODEN

' u "l " 3'
$2']:— 1 9- 

SOME NOVEL PLAY EQUIPMENT

 

 

8Q

FRONT ELEVATlOH

SCALE. 1"=- 1‘ 0"

make a

 

CABINET

FAG. 12

77

Small wooden
standards are always
useful as they can be
made to serve in
many different ways.
By placing them in
rows and threading
a heavy cord or rope
through the holes in
them, they are use-
ful for blocking off
areas or keeping a
pathway open in a
crowd. They may
also be used at ba—
zaars or exhibits to
control the crowd
and to keep them far
enough away from
the articles being
shown to prevent
their being soiled by
handling.

It is not necessary
to fill the base with
cement for indoor
use. A solid block of
wood will give
enough support to
the post if it is not

F— 1. 3/4n—y

 1' ----*Ii *1...

1' 1" ——> over two or three
8.05 feet in height.
E L EVATI O H

Bulletin Board

A nature bulletin
board which may be

used for a variety of purposes is useful at camp
and playground. The background should be made
of soft wood or covered with material into which

thumbtacks can be easily forced. It is im-
pbrtant to have the displays changed often,
and it is more interesting when living
plants are included in the exhibit rather
than printed matter. There may be small
shelves for holding rock specimens, seed
pods, pine cones, or anything the group
may wish to display. A small test tube at-
tached to each side of the board will hold
water to keep plants or flowers alive for
several days. Hooks inserted at the top
may be used in various ways. Ample space
should be allowed for weather charts, and
announcements of coming events.

Summit's Trailer Theater

In 1\ t. s u at u'.\ time on the
W playgrounds of Summit. New

Jerse}. the stage and scenery
irrive on wl'ieels. A little white-
walled theater hitched to a mowing machine tractor
mmes rumbling into the playground just before a
play is scheduled tn begin. There is a sudden
durr} as children and leaders rush out to anchor
the stage and set up the portable wings. One final
checking of cues. one last work of warning to the
cast. and the 5111'“ is on!

lint summer productions in Summit were not
always as easy to stage. For several years lead-
ers on ever} playground faced the same difficul-
ties. \Yhen dramatic shows and pageants had been
.w-rked out. there would be the annual search for
111 appropriate stage setting and scenery.

Then last year Margaret Swartz. Supervisor of
Playgrounds. suggested the construction of a travel-
°ng theater which could provide stage and scenery
'nr dramatic groups on all the playgrounds. The
Ward of Recreation Commissioners approved the
~ttg2€stiun and authorized Miss Swartz and the

By H. S. KENNEDY
Director of Recreation
Summit. New Jersey

Director of Recreation to go ahead
with plans. Fifty dollars was set
aside for the project.

Elmer Furth, Supervisor of Man-
ual Training for the senior high school, revised
the tentative plans which had been made originally
from a traveling theater built for the playgrounds
of. York, Pennsylvania. \Vith his help working
plans were drawn up and the required amount of
lumber calculated.

An old automobile chassis complete with tires
was found at one of Summit's auto wrecking places
and purchased for $5.00. On this base the fore-
man of the maintenance department and his assist-
ant constructed a platform of I” by 3” fir flooring.
Back, sides and front of the theater were built of
Bi” U.S.G. weatherboard which was found to be
more economical than 3/3” plywood. The walls
were hinged so that they are collapsible. The com-
pleted theater measures 6’ by 9’ on the platform
and 10’ in height.

The supervisor of handcrafts designed and

(Continued on page 110)

 

\l

Joseph Lee Junior Leaders

GOOD MANY of the rec—
reation departments
throughout the coun-

A

This year Joseph Lee Day will be held

on July thirty-first. Are you making
plans for an observance of the day?

This "Joseph Lee Junior Leader'I program is
a new suggestion this year. The National
Recreation Association will very much ap-
preciate knowing how widely it is adOpted.

should be made to use them.
This summer is a par-
ticularly good time to begin

try will face this summer
real shortages in playground
leaders. College students
will in large numbers be go-
ing to school as part of the
college and university
"speed-up” programs. The
draft is taking many men, us {he
and war industries are call-

ing on both men and women.

Even volunteer helpers of former years may have
been drawn in to other volunteer work. Evidence
seems to point to the possibility that in at least
some communities the supply of emergency lead-
ership may be affected. -

In the face of these shortages careful planning
must be made so that workers who do remain
available can be most effective.

In memory of Joseph Lee it is suggested that
each recreation department organize a group of
boys and girls for volunteer service on the play—
grounds and that these boys and girls be known
as “Joseph Lee Junior Leaders.” Many of the
children on the playgrounds are probably already
acquainted with the many years of service which
Joseph Lee gave to the cause of recreation. This
service began even before he became President of
the National Recreation As—
sociation in 1910 and ex-

tended until his death on
July 28, 1937.

Junior playground leader—

enth

ship is not a new idea. Ex-
perience in many cities shows
that there are ways in which
children can help in leader-
ship and service functions.
To the extent that boys and
girls can help, every effort

If there is rather general acceptance of the
idea' would it be worth while considering
a simple national insignia and some mini-
mum standards tor selectionl training. and
hours of service which will make the pro-
gram even more attractive to young peo-
ple and give it real meaning? Won't you

share your suggestions with us and give _
of your experience? now anx1ous to have an

Another suggestion for the Joseph Lee
Day program has to do with the making
of simple articles by the children in
their craft program which may be sent

to contributors of the National Recre-
It is thought that

in this way the children will come to
appreciate more keenly the contribution
made by Joseph Lee and by the individ-
uals who are making possible the expan-
sion of the movement he did so much to
establish. Write the National Recrea-
tion Association for more information.

ation Association.

such a program if one is not
already under way in your
department or on your play-
ground. Boys and girls who
in other summers might not
have wanted to give up some
of their own playtime are

active part in helping in the
war program.

But what are the kinds of services which Joseph
Lee Junior Leaders can give on the playgrounds?
The following are a few of the things that boys
and girls are already doing in some cities: leading
groups of younger children in activities in which
the junior leader is already proficient ; telling
stories to younger children; counting attendance;
marking off game courts; helping keep the play-
ground clean and protecting trees, shrubs and
flowers from carelessness of others; protecting
game equipment from damage; setting up and
taking down apparatus, nets and standards;
checking out and checking in equipment and sup-
plies; assisting with iirst aid; serving as guards at
places on the playgrounds such as at swings or at
the wading pool where accidents might otherwise
occur; ushering on special occasions; officiating at
games, contests and tourna—
ments; and managing teams.

Some of these suggested
activities demand less of
young people than others do
and some young people can
take more responsibility than
others. There is a question as
to how old a boy or girl must
be before he or she can un-
dertake even minor responsi-
bilities. A frequently cited
rule holds that boys or girls

79

‘w U51 1 'J; a H
afr- - --. .t. t..'~' °I'L' tear-- 'lltlt‘l' tlmll tin r111!
ti'v '--i .i t' it "me am. e resrmnsihilits and
'l'.' r. .. mm 'm.‘ ‘innirr leader should lit an
lhh u" t u l'r. .t‘th years nlrl

l tr-t .1. r l'\'Lllll.‘ "rut all illt i-miut'ttudllt‘a

ilen .. r .r n he s .uul glri: lu help. .\ resutru-iul
1'u“'t urn-i u--'..~.er nit-mill he itlllt‘ tn tinl mul‘t' lull

' (

\1( IA 1'. In ll’tilfd

mt' dill]! :51 all} ho} ut‘ girl \\ hu reall) mulls to help.

\\ e must ren'lemher :11 the same time that we
.u'v dealing with buys and girls and that there are
al\\ ays limitations on things that can be expected
ul them. Even the mmt dependable boy, for in—
nanee. may be taken away by his parents on :1

tivirtinmd u my. 113..

 

General Clarence Ransom Edwards, atter World War I. conferring on Joseph Lee the Distinguished
Service Medal tor his service as a member ot the War Department Commission on Training Camp Activities

King
Arthur

Rides
Again

Use of a motivating
theme has brought
gratifying results
at many a camp

TMOSPHERE is a difficult thing to write about.

A It’s hard to pin down, hard to describe, when

found. Sometimes conscious efforts are made

to create atmosphere. Often it is created by cir-
cumstance.

Both conscious-effort and circumstances con—
spired at Doddridge Farm to produce the desired
result. The conscious effort was made on the part
of those in charge of the camp to develop a theme
that had a'religious significance, with emphasis
on the great adventure awaiting those who would
follow the Grail. King Arthur and the Knights
of the Round Table offered the solution.

The circumstance in this particular caSe was
the acquiring of a beautifully wooded ninety acre
tract north of Libertyville, Illinois, by the Catholic
Youth Organization of Chicago. There are nine—
teen buildings on the grounds, a swimming pool,
and ample woods for a great variety,0f activity.
Through His Excellency, Bishop Bernard 
Sheil, F oundei‘ and National Director of the
C.Y.O., an excellent staff of counselors was re—
cruited from the ranks of recent college graduates.
During the summer of 1941, one hundred girls
from the poorer sections of Chicago were trans-
ported to the camp every two weeks. All nation-
alities and backgrounds, Negroes and Chinese
girls, and girls from several non-Catholic denomi-

 

By WILLIAM F. TEMPLE, JR.

nations were represented. Selection for thecamp
was made by pastors and by Chicago welfare
agencies. 7 i

The physical aspects of the camp had to'be con-
sidered in producing the desired effect. The part
that the activities themselves 'played, and the
names given to them, also received conSideration.
Place names and staff names were brought into
the picture. No detail that would contribute to
creating an impression of story book beauty was
omitted. _

The Effect of Color

The exteriors of the buildings were the first to
be built into the pattern. Whereas many camps
paint theirObuildings the same color, each building
at Doddridge is painted a different color or com-
bination of colors. Shades that blend well, both
with each Other and with the trees, cover each
building so that a person standing at the center of
the grounds catches a rainbow view as he turns his
head. Small details, window frames, door jambs,
steps, are painted in contrasting reds, blues or
yellows. ‘

81

33 KINC ARTHUR RIDES AGAIN

This has its effect. Business and industry in
recent years have noted the psychological effect
that color has on the customer. Similarly. the new
arrival at camp immediately senses the atmosphere
of the camp through the color scheme. A distinct
feeling of pleasure seems to come with entrance
to the grounds; it must be no less a part of the
first impression of the children who attend. many
of whom have not previously been exposed to

such beauty.

Camp Theme Important

Those experienced with camps know the value
of the camp setting in affecting the teaching situa-
tion. \Vhile the same teacher may teach the same
craft in an in-town settlement, that craft, if taught
at camp. often presents a more valuable experi-
ence to the child. The camp itself is part of the
adventure. And the more the camp can become
an adventurous story set apart from everyday life,
yet associated with it, the more lasting is the im-
pression on the child's mind. And so the under-
lying theme comes into action. It acts as an inte-
grating force in the various parts of the program.
Thus a camp theme, with as many segments as
possible related to the general theme, can produce
a wholesome situation in which the child wants
to participate.

The search for the Holy Grail became the cen-
tral theme at Doddridge Farm. Tennyson’s Idylls
of the King furnished not only the story structure
but also place names, titles for camp staff, and
incidents around which the program was built.
The lives and characters of the Knights of the
Round Table were brought into sharp focus not
only by storytelling and (lramatics, but by small,
everyday occurrences that built up into a pyramid
of experience and memory for the child.

Place names were carefully chosen. In almost
every camp there are spots associated with some
favorite story of the children. At Doddridge such
associations were carried out in smallest detail.
There was a constant stimulus to the imagination,
a constant invitation to be a part of the story of
the GT3ll.’

Take, for example, the names of the dormitory-
cottages. “Sir Galahad," “Sir Gawain,” “Sir
Percival" and “Sir Gareth," bold knights all, and
strong in their Quest. But Galahad, “whose
strength was as the strength of ten because his
heart was pure”—Galahad came closest to the
Grail. And the cottage bearing his name stands
nearest to the Chapel.

And Camelot. \\'hy call a playground a play-
ground when the story has a Camelot? That was
the place that the jousts were held; where the
finest flower of chivalrous knighthood came;
where courage and strength and endurance were
continually put to the test. So. Camelot became a
reality.

Through the whole camp this place-naming
went on. “King Arthur” was the caretaker's cot—
tage. “Excalibur” (the magic sword) was the tool
shed. “Merlin” (the wizard and mixer of po-
tions) was the nurse's cottage. Even the camp
goat—beyond doubt a queenly creature—bore the
proud name of Guinevere!

In every camp, the quality of the staff in large
part determines the quality of the program. Staff
members at Doddridge Farm were carefully
selected for their ability to contribute to the pro-
gram. And they, too, became a part of the story.
Each dormitory had two leaders who (lid little else
but care for and advise the children when the reg-
ular scheduled activities were not being conducted.
Theirs was the duty of putting the children to bed
each night and getting the camp quiet. And under
their guidance the waking and going to sleep per-
iods became entrances and exits to another storied
(lay. \Vho could better serve these needs than
pages? As in the days of old, the knights had
pages to serve their personal needs, so in this
modern Quest, the pages lived to serve.

And once upon a time, the story goes, the jesters
of the court provided the joy and liveliness. That
remained their function. Perhaps arts and crafts
programs are fun in all camps. But with the jes-
ter in charge—a person skilled in leather. wood
and metal work, or embroidery and weaving a
trip to the Magic Grove becomes more delightful.
Each activity of the program, taught by a trained
teacher, was thus given an added ingredient. Na-
ture study, music and dancing, swinuning at the
Swan, games, indoors and out, puppetry and dra-
matics, and gardening, became not only exciting
fun in themselves, but related to all phases of
camp life.

Participation in the work of the camp is some-
times the cause of misunderstanding. The prob-
lem, too, was deftly handled. The after-breakfast
clean-up was called “Slaying the Dragon"— al-
though this and some other titles put a little strain
on T ennyson—and the dragon of dirt was van-
quished in short order, so that when the time came
for the morning inspection each cottage was liter—

(Contiimcd on page 117)

 

Summer Playground

AY COLORED FLAGS unfurling over sixty-three
G playgrounds will herald the opening of this
year’s summer play season in Indianapolis.
Symbols of playground work and fun, the flags
were made by boys and girls in craft classes last
summer.

At a staff meeting of women play leaders early
in the season it was suggested that the making of
a flag be discussed with the children on each
ground since they would want to bring in ideas
for their own banners. Boys and girls suggested
many themes for the flags—special features, play—
ground names, facilities, and in some instances
even the history of the playground. A deadline for
suggestions was set and each ground selected its
favorite theme.

The popular crayonex method was chosen for
designing the flags. This craft, well liked by boys
and girls, may be adapted to any age group. It
may be simple or detailed according to the ability
of the individual and permits free expression of
the creative instinct of the child. Crayonex is an
excellent method of teaching color harmony and
design to children in playground craft classes.

One yard of closely
woven unbleached
muslin was furnished
each playground group.
After the theme had
been decided upon,
boys and girls were
selected to block in
and color the design,
and to hem, fringe or
finish the flag in any
manner chosen. All the
work was supervised
by the play leaders.

Twenty children
from Hawthorne Play-
ground worked on a
border of green haw-
thorn leaves to put
around their Hag. An-
other group at George
\Vashington Play-
ground depicted a
scene of Indian and ~

\ . ..\ .
. __ g r I ’ ‘
I _ - .
v o ,  _. o ‘"
-~ ~ +  s ; .. r-
‘ - ' .‘ .. - ‘
 ‘ _ v c-
.-
_. . . .. s- A.
‘ sis-152.5- , h . ...-.,..H 3 ‘ “' ,

Crafts in Indianapolis

By NORMA KOSTER
Department of Public Parks
Indianapolis. Indiana

pioneer tradings which had taken place on that
ground. The fountains and sunken gardens at
Garheld Park became the design of that Hag. Some
playground artists drew sports pictures for their
banners, others chose different summer activities.
The variety was endless, the designs expressive,
and the workmanship excellent.

All Hags were brought to a staff meeting of play
leaders and exhibited in a colorful parade. W in-
ners were selected in each of the five districts into
which the playgrounds of Indianapolis are divided.
A former supervisor of art and a member of the

Playground children of Indianapolis last
summer took part in a huge aluminum par-
ade. Young citizens of Andover. Massa-
chusettsI also worked to help their gov-
ernment cope with the aluminum shortage.

 

Photo by Donald Look

83

84 SUMMER PLAYGROUND CRAFTS IN INDIANAPOLIS

Mayor's Advisory Committee on Recreation served
as judges.

Children in the craft classes also made boys'
shirt insignia and girls’ arm bands for which each
playground had its own original design. These
projects not only provided good crafts but aroused
the interest of the children who frequently used
the articles on festival and Sports occasions.

The flags provided an incentive to playground
loyalty. Children who had worked on the banners
were proud of the playgrounds for which they
stood. Boys and girls themselves planned simple
but impressive ceremonies for the raising and low-
ering of the flags each day.

Playground children, proudly wearing their in-
signia and carrying old aluminum pots and pans,
marched behind their playground Bags in the huge
aluminum parade led by the governor of Indiana
and the mayor. Later, at the sectional and final
track meets playground flags were set up as meet-
ing stations for the various teams. The arm bands
worn at the meets helped play leaders keep groups
and teams together and enabled judges to deter-
mine winners more quickly and accurately.

Playground Log Books

Several years ago, the Indianapolis Recreation
Department operated its playgrounds on a very
small budget, so-small that no funds were available
for craft materials. As a result, the playground
craft program depended on utilizing salvage ma-
terials and whatever castaways the children could
furnish.

Then three years ago, through the interest and
cooperation of the Indianapolis Foundation, $1,000
was provided for a summer craft program on forty-
nine playgrounds.

The need of submitting a detailed report of craft
activities and expenditures of this money has re-
sulted in another outstanding craft project—the
making of playground log books. Limited at first
to a review of the craft program, these beautifully
constructed and decorated logs now contain pic-
torial accounts of all playground activities.

During the first year each playground was asked
to keep a record of all articles made, the number
and ages of children in the classes, and the general
scope and worth-whileness of the activity. Since
long typewritten reports are often left unread, the

booklet report was substituted as a craft project
for each playground. "

Still working with,salvage craft materials, boys
and girls made the first books of cardboard cov-

ered with wallpaper, punched and laced with
twisted crepe paper. The filler was cut from paper
bags brought from grocery stores.

In some instances, the books were nothing more
than written records because of lack of interest or
imagination and failure on the part of leaders to
inspire the children. On other playgrounds the
young craftsmen eagerly employed all their crea-
tive instinct for color, design, and ingenuity. At
one center where children like to draw, colored
pictures of all articles were made. Photographs
of craft displays and classes helped to illustrate
other books. One of the most unique logs contained
miniature samples of craft projects.

Now that the books include a review of all sum-
mer playground activities, they are usually divided
into chapters: physical activities, craft, drama,
storytelling, safety patrol, pageants and special
events. The latter may include parades, family
nites, doll shows, or hobby shows. There is no
limit to the variety of material in the logs which
often resemble huge scrap books bulging with
newspaper clippings, magazines, and snapshots of
activities and leaders.

There is no longer a standard type of log, ex-
cept that it must be handmade. At one playground
each child tooled a design in a scrap of leather
and these were laced together with gimp into an
attractive cover. Another group of boys and girls
tapped a design with hammer and nails in their
heavy tin cover. Many beautiful books have been
made with wood—carved, burned, painted, or
cut out.

A spirit of friendly rivalry between the play-
grounds keeps the children busy with novel and
artistic projects. When the books are put on dis-
play at the end of the season, each playground is
determined to have the most complete, unique, and
artistic log.

Play leaders use the books extensively in plan-
ning summer programs and new leaders find them
invaluable sources of information—what activities
have been tried and found popular or unpopular,
what programs have never been tried, how prob-
lems are faced and solved, who are the neighbor—
hood volunteers and the child leaders.

The books are dramatic helps for the supervisor
in compiling a report, and serve as eye-catching ad-
vertisements for' the playground program. These
logs are more than a craft project—they tell a
graphic story of the playgrounds of Indianapolis

and help to lay the ground work for each new
season.

Our Neighbors to the South

Last summer a number of citiesradopted the “Good Neighbor” theme for
their summer playground programs, and through such varied activities
as handcraft, games, music, dances and pageantry, paid their tribute
to the bonds of fellowship and culture which unite all the Americas.

"Know Your Neighbors"

By JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK

Director of Playgrounds
Oak Park. Illinois

is not 'so much one who lives next door as

someone traveling in the same direction as
you are, someone who believes in the same way of
making the journey. “Know Your Neighbors,”
the theme of the Pan—American Pantomime, oc—
curred to us last fall, long before America entered
the war or the Pan—American pact was signed.
But the events of December 7th only served to
heighten the mean-
ing of the word
neighbor.

Giving the pro-
gram turned out
to be a rich and
exciting experi-
ence. It might
have been that the
warmth and gaiety
of the Latin mu-
sic and dances
were contagious.
We are not sure;
all we know is
that the planning
and producing of
the festival proved
to be a matter of
opening up sur—
prising new vistas,
both to the chil—
dren and the staff.
\Ve found our—
selves exploring
Argentina, Colum—
bia, Mexico, and
Canada, to say

We HAVE MADE the discovery that a neighbor

nothing of our own country which formed the lifth
unit, when we designed Aztec costumes, made

wooden jewelry, tried out old music forms and
delved into ancient legends.

Everyone seemed to want to help us, and did.
we had the Pan-American Council of Chicago
furnishing data and giving publicity in its bulletins.
We had the president of The Friends of Mexico,
Mrs. Edith Kelly of Hull House, supplying the
material for the vivid and moving legend of Pa-
pantzin, never before dramatized. We had the Los
Angeles Recreation Department offering sugges—

"The Magic Ball.” a legend of Columbia.
presented by Eugene Field Playground

 

Courtesy Chicago Tribune

85

86 OUR NEIGHBORS TO THE SOUTH

tions .for Mexican dances. A noted student of
Pan-American dances in \Vashington, D. C., of-
fered her aid, as did the Pan-American Library
there. The curator of ethnology at the Field Mu-
semn of Natural History supplied material on
ancient Aztec costumes. Our own public library
gave suggestions for some of the stories from
which the legends were dramatized. High School
teachers living seventy-live miles away gave our
staff lessons in Columbian dances. A native Ar-
gentinian provided the dance numbers for that
country. A native Mexican boy came to Oak Park
to teach some thrilling and ancient traditional
dances. The consuls of the five countries repre-
sented took a keen interest in the program and
were our guests of honor on the evening of the
presentation.

One of the most interesting features was the de-
signing of the sets. A member of our staff did an
exceptionally outstanding job on the Aztec scen-
ery. This was in brilliant reds and golds with
authentic Aztec designs. The children, in the ma-
jority of cases. made their own costumes.

The numbers were interspersed with Latin
American music as well as Canadian and North
American numbers played and sung by two or-
chestras and a men’s glee club that are part of our
playground program. \Ve had a narrator between
numbers, since the action outside the dances was
all in pantomime. The finale proved especially
dramatic. There was a large illuminated “V” with
the figure of Liberty standing on a platform be-
hind. The house was darkened and a drum and
bugle corp marched up the two aisles playing the
Marines’ marching song, and across the stage in
salute to Liberty. The spotlight, of course, was
on Liberty and the “V.”

The Argentine number was an original; the
Columbian, Mexican, and Canadian dramatizations
were take nfrom old legends; and “The Old
Miner’s Tale” was adapted from a number in The
Book of Ballet by Gerald Goode. In all, about
three hundred took part in the program.

The motifs of the national dances were inter-
esting and varied. For instance, the Aztec danced
for two reasons: to glorify warfare and to propiti-
ate his diety. He loved and praised flowers, feath-
ers, emeralds, jade. He celebrated planting season
and the coming of rain. For music the Aztec
used drums, horns, cowbells, shells, and bells. He
was also fond of burning incense. Shell horns and
grotesque masks were used. The dancing was
never gay. It was either religious or warlike.

   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
    

“The Magic Ball"

The scene is a forest. A group of children ar
dancing. As they dance the witch enters with h
magic ball. She stands watching them stealthil_
As the dance ends she laughs. The children, ter
rifled, look up and see her and run away. Tl .‘
witch. muttering an incantation, places her m.'
ball on the ground. Then, at the sound of voic
she runs off laughing wickedly.

Natalia and her brother, Luis, Pachito with h'
goose, and other children run in. They play
game with the goose. Then flve of the childr
perform an acrobatic number. The merriment it
creases as Natalia calls on Dolores and asks h
to sing. \V hen she has flnished the other childr
dance.

Everyone leaves except Natalia and Luis. Sud
denly Natalia sees the magic ball. Delighted, sh
gives chase, but every time her hands touch th
ball it eludes her. Suddenly there is the sound 0
wind. The forest grows darker. Natalia stumble
and falls. The witch comes in to watch as Lui
runs to help his sister, but he is powerless. He
hair is caught under a stump and she can not re-
lease it. Luis too is bewitched. When Natali
calls for help he can not hnd her. The witcl
laughs evilly, picks up her ball and leaves.

The forest grows blacker. Natalia cowers there,
cold and terrified. Suddenly there is the sound 0‘
an owl’s voice in the distance. “W hoooooo. Fire
will conquer frosted death; only it will save her
breath.” Startled, the children listen. Natalia beg‘
Luis to fmd a firebrand before she freezes to death.

Suddenly, Luis sees in a dim corner of the for-
est an old man huddled over a hre. Luis begs him
for help but the old man tells him his hre i
almost out. Luis in despair points towards Natalia.
Suddenly the old man has an idea. He calls in the
flamingo and places a firebrand in its beak, tellin
it to carry the brand to Natalia.

Bewildered and lost, Luis and the flamingo
finally fmd Natalia. The flamingo drops the fire-
brand at Natalia’s feet and she is saved. Joyfully,
she springs up, but she sees that the lirehrand has
burned the flamingo’s throat. As she touches him
the burns are healed, all except the crimson spot
on his breast, which forever the flamingo will bear.

Now the old witch creeps in again, but she sees
that she is defeated and her power gone. As she
stumbles out, from the other directiouJ come the
merry shouts of the children’s playmates. They
are overjoyed at finding- Natalia and Luis, and the
curtain falls at the end of their dance.

OUR NEIGHBORS TO THE SOUTH 87

An "All-American”
Playground Pageant

By ELIZABETH H. HANLEY

N PHILADELPHIA the presentation of a pageant
| typifying the “Good Neighbor” theme was the
logical culmination of a nine-year playground pro-
gram showing chronologically the settlement of the
city by different nationality groups. This was
found to be a very graphic way of impressing the
children with the rich contributions all their neigh-
bors had made to the development of their com-
munity—arts and crafts, manners and customs,
games and dances, costumes, music,“ songs. and
general history. They came to expect such a con-
tinuity, and their first question at the opening of
the playground season was: “What is the pageant
going to show about Philadelphia this year?”
Sometimes there was a pertinent suggestion, such
as: “W by don’t we have a pageant with the Chi-
nese in it? We never have had them.” (That will
be attended to in this summer’s pageant.)

It was significant that the children were begin-
ning to notice who was left out, and to be curious,
if no more, as to why this was done. It was not
surprising, then, that several of the older children
had the All-American idea before it was presented
to them_. It developed that nearly all of them had
neighbors from Mexico, Brazil, Cuba, the Philip-
pines, Porto Rico, and other countries, and had
seen the possibilities for better relationships by in-
cluding them in the pageant. This personal con—
tact simplified the selection of the countries to be
presented in complete episodes, for of course the
entire number could not be so treated. The size
and importance of the country were considered,
too, but prominence was given the remainder in a
parade of musicians, vendors, jugglers, street en-
tertainers and the like. Then all were brought to-

gether in the “Grouping of the Flags” and in the
finale of the program.

Preparing for the Pageant

Each of our nine tot lots and standard play-
grounds was assigned an epi—
sode, and this was decided by
the number of participants re-
quired, the ability of the per-
formers in the parts, and the-
training and talent of the teach—
ers. One tot lot, for example,

Mrs. Hanley, Associate DirectorI Play-
ground and Recreation Association of
Philadelphia. wrote the script of the
pageant through which. last summerI

children of that city gave expression
to their spirit of friendliness tor

the children of the other Americas.

was assigned the main speaking and singing char-
acters because the voices of the children were
better there and both teachers had considerable
knowledge of dramatics and music. Two of the
large playgrounds were given episodes that re-
quired a variety of rather diflicult dancing or ex-
tensive mass movements, since the teachers in
these grounds taught dancing in their school phy-
sical education work and had carried it on some—
what in their summer programs. By this method
the work was simplified for every one and there
was less strain and “plugging” for children and
teachers. All had what they liked and could do
best, and therefore the preparations for the pag-
eant were recreational in the fullest sense.

The initial research was done by the director,
but the children and teachers made selections from
the material given them, working out designs from _
pictures of costumes, properties, and musical in-
struments. The Children’s Department of the
Public Library was the source for most of this
material, such as articles and pictures from Na-
tional Geographic Magazines; programs, festivals,
pageants and specilic bibliography from the Pan-
American‘Union; a “Pan-American Carnival,” by
Joy Higgins, issued by the National Recreation
Association; “The Other Americas,” edited and
illustrated by Xavier Cugat ; and special bulletins
from the National Recreation Association.

According to our usual custom, the theme of the
pageant was carried through all the cultural ac-
tivities of the summer—arts, crafts, songs, music,
stories, dramatizations, and even some of the lox '—
organized games. These were not allowed to
monopolize the regular program but were con-
sciously used to color it in order to create atmos-
phere. At least one story of every country was
told every week, and the children were given the
names of the books in which these could be found.
The librarian of the Children’s Department co-
operated in this, and even went further by having
appropriate pictures and illustrations arranged.

The songs, dances and games, of course, were
rehearsed every day, but not for too long, and the
same method was followed with the costuming,

arts and crafts. Mothers, grandmothers, older
sisters, friends, and even

fathers helped with the sew-
ing, cutting and litting.(There
were some tailors and dress-
makers whose children were
participating, and they did
good service in the evenings at

88 OUR NEIGHBORS TO THE SOUTH

their homes.) All the designing, however, and the
bulk of the making was the work of the children
under direction of the teachers. Even cold water
dyeing was done, and crayons and paints galoare
were used for all sorts of decorations on garments,
shawls, scarfs, and the like. Pottery was made of
bakeless clay and decorated by the same methods.
All these things were ready when the actual
rehearsal of the pageant was begun, three weeks
before the date of the production. Of course there
were a few “last minute” odds and ends to be done,
but they were mainly finishing touches that in-
dividuals thought might be an addition to their

costumes .

The Day Arrives!

Then all was finally ready! The day for the
pageant had come. Most of the participants wore
their costumes, as they were to go in school buses
and would not be seen until they appeared on the
stage in the Outdoor Theater in Pastorius Park,
placed at our disposal by the Fairmount Park
Commission. These good friends also loaned us
their traveling amplifier and a man to operate it.
\Ve had bought records put out by Decca and
Victor, and one of the teachers played guitar ac-
companiments to some of the songs.

There could not have been a more perfect set-
ting—the natural cyclorama of evergreen trees;
the little brook between the audience and the
actors; the miniature lake just glimpsed through
the background of shrubs and plants; the blue sky
stretched wide above it all. No wonder the chil-
dren were eager to begin and reluctant to stop!
Just to be in such an environment was thrilling,
and they delighted in watching each other’s acts.

The children were keener about this pageant
than any they had ever been in, for it was of a
different kind—more “grown-up,” with something
more of sophistication and a sense of impersonat-
ing real people. They themselves voiced this fee]-
ing: “This is not a fairy tale pageant or about
dead-and-gone people,” one expressed it. “This
is about real people living now.”

That concept was obvious throughout the entire
pageant and made it, as some said, the best we
had ever given. The children acted as if they
really were “Good N eighbors,” and glad to be to-
gether as All-Americans.

For this year we are planning a continuation of
the pageant to be called “United \Ve Stand,” with
democracy as the theme. There will be the same
All-American cast, but presented'as democracies

banded together for the defense of their “way of'
life.” This will still be done by singing, dancing.
dramatization, but with stress on their freedon‘
to do these things in their own way. The po
sibilities are limited only by the scope of t!
imagination !

The Pageant Script
PART ONE—“Other Americas.”

FIRST EPISODE: Minstrel enters playing “Go
Bless America.” Groups of children fro-m Unite‘
States come on from right and left and sing

stanza and chorus. I
Bard enters, followed by groups of children
from the “Other Americas,” and speaks: |
Good sir, we beg your pardon, but we heard
The song you played, “God Bless America,” ‘

And we come to sing it with you here; I
For we, too, are Americans and true
As any on this blessed continent.

MINSTREL (Extending his hand)
\Ve know, and we are glad to welcome you
To join with us in singing this great prayer
For blessings on our loved America,
For there is no dividing line in all
The things we cherish and would keep as now:
Our heritage of Freedom and the right
To choose the way in which we 'best can live,
To honor God, ourselves, and fellow man.
Thus shall it be between us now and all
Of those who follow us in future times.
So, All-American we are—all you
Who dwell beneath the Southern Cross, and these
Who have their home beneath the Polar Star.

Minstrel strikes a chord of the song, and the‘
Bard stands beside him while all sing. At the end!
of the song a girl steps out from the South Ameri-I
can group and speaks:

GIRL (Turning to Minstrel and Bard)
Good sirs, your pardons, but would it not be
A prOper thing for us to join in play
Together, too? In games and dances as
we each are wont to do in our own lands?

Cnoaus or CHILDREN
Yes! Yes! Si! Si!
MINsrREL

So shall it be! And by the alphabet it shall be done!
Come now—the Fiesta starts!

(He, the Bard and the Girl stand up center and

the groups perform in alphabetical order.)
First Feature: ARGENTINA

Singing Game: “Allooz Con Leche.”
Peasant Dance: “La Companita.”

Second Feature: BOLIVIA
Native Dance: “Couple Circle.”

(Continued on page 110)

  
  

Barnum Returns —

To the Playground

HE GREATEST Show on Earth

has come out of winter quar-

ters again and with it many
ideas for a season’s playground
activities. War may have tight-
ened the grins of the clowns and
put red, white and blue sawdust
under the big top, but the circus
is much the sa1ne-—-always bigger
and better than ever. Acrobats still
perform over the heads of the crowd and the ele-
phants amble into the ring—this year with a ballet
in their repertoire. '

But the best source for program material is RT.
Barnum himself, greatest showman of all times
and master of the superlative. He lived when our
country was developing and expanding into a
great power, but long before his death in 1891 at
eighty-one, he had become a legendary iigure.
Today he is as much a part of our Americana as
Bunker Hill and Daniel Boone. His experiences
as a purveyor of entertainment provide a veritable
gold mine for the imaginative playground director.

Phineas Taylor Barnum was a real Connecticut
Yankee, born in Bethe], July 5, 1810. He was as
typical as he was unique; a paradoxical character,
shrewd and sharp, not above a bit of humbug on
the one hand, yet in many ways baldly honest, and
simple to the point of naivete.

From small boyhood he displayed true Yankee
enterprise, Traveling “exhibitions,” in the idiom
of the 1820’s, which covered anything from an
elephant to a medicine man, had begun to be popu-
lar while he was still less" than school age. Ven-
dors of sweets and trinkets were always part of
the itinerant shows, and it
didn’t take young Barnum long
to see the possibilities of this
sort of business. He started
peddling molasses candy and
gingerbread while still in knee
breeches, and this taste of be-
ing in business on his own

"Breathes there a man" who can see
a circus program without a thrill?
The sight of this year's first pos-
ter brought to an anonymous play-
ground worker not only memories of
happy hours spent at circuses but
ideas for a summer playground pro-
gram permeated with circus joys!

spoiled him for the less exciting and less satisfying
routine of working for other people. His career
began ofhcially with chores on his father’s farm.
He worked in country stores. Then he tried his
luck in the big city, and, after many changes and
chances, not all of them prosperous by any means,
he started in “show business”—his own term;
perhaps he invented it. Right here let it be said
that not least among his gifts was that of literary
expression. We recommend his memoirs as ex—
traordinarily interesting and well told, and also for
the picture he gives of the American scene during
those important, growing years of the young
Republic.

For fifty-six years Barnum was a showman.
During these years the telegraph became practical
for everyday use. Barnum, from the beginning,
used it extensively, sending news of his latest
features as far as the wires reached, always in
glamorous exaggerated style calculated to rouse the
curiosity of his potential customers, the human
race—and never mind the cost! When railroads
took the place of horse-and-wagon transportation,
he immediately seized the opportunity to get
around faster and visit more places. When the
ocean cable began to operate,
Barnum utilized it to send for
whole menageries and all man-
ner of wonders from strange
lands. Every Hedgling news-
paper he employed as a new
advertising medium. As print-
ing processes improved, his

89

90 BARNUJI RETURNS—TO THE PLAYGROUND

posters became gaudier and
more arresting. In these he
did well from the start!

Here is a modest quotation
from an early dodger:

PHINEAS T. BARNUM
PHIXEAS T. BARNUM

Here he is, here he is. Phineas
T. Barnum—A name destined
to encircle the globe

A name ordained to be upon the tongues of

Kings and Queens and
ORIENTAL POTENTATES.

Just skimming over his fabulous record gives
one a sense of the man's tremendous vitality and
energy, his zest for doing something new. There
is about him that timelessness and universal appeal
that marks the genius, and children are quick to
appreciate this.

Barnum always gave the public a little more
than they expected, although quite frequently he
hoaxed them, and what’s more, made them like .it.
Although his entertainments were always strictly
moral and included something of an educational
nature, he never allowed people to become bored.
He kept his prices low, too, side attractions catch-
ing up with their pocketbooks.

“Barnumizing” the Playground Program

There are endless possibilities in the story of
this amazing American figure for the playground
program. In the first place, both boys and girls of
every age would be interested. The older children
could be enlisted to do some research. H are C omcs
Baruum,* which gives P. T. Barnum’s own story.
collected from his books and introduced by Helen
Ferris, contains excellent source material for re-
search by young people. It is interesting to note
that in the 1888 edition of his autobiography Bar-
num wrote: “This book is not copyrighted. Any
and all persons are at liberty to publish all or any
parts of it.” \Vhere it would not seem practical
to build a whole season’s program around Bar-
num's adventures, there will be parts of his varied
doings that could be used for special occasions.

A progressive pageant could be worked out cul-
minating at the end of the season in a three-ring
circus where separate stunts and features could be
brought together, with extravaganza touches added
for a splendid closing spectacle. T here is some-
thing in the Barnum story that could be related
to practically every activity and project within the
playground range. A good way to get the coopera-

 

' Harcourt, Brace and Co., New York City.

Circuses in themselves are not new to
the playground program. Many a recre-
ation department has climaxed its sum-
m-er playground season with a circus.
But perhaps, through Iaclt of informa-
tion about the men who established the
"Greatest Show on Earth," we've been
missing out on some ideas which would
enhance interest not only in the cir-
cus itself but in the entire program.

tiou of the larger boys in pro—
moting the program would
be to have them impersonate
Barnum, turn about.

Barnum’s first large-scale
venture was the promotion of
the American Museum, situ-
ated on lower Broadway in
New York City. across from
Saint Paul's Church. This had
been established as an exhibit of rarities and
curios the year our hero was born. but because of
inability to keep the public’s interest, its patronage
had fallen off. Barnum made a shrewd deal and
began at once a campaign of “notoriet_v"—his own
word. He realized the unproductiveness of mild
appeal and so he startled and stung public curi-
osity to the box office point.

The boys and girls could get together an exhi-
bition of their hobbies and then, as a group proj—
ect, contrive some absurdities like the Niagara
Falls replica with real water. It can be'as hodge-
podge as you like, for that is in the spirit of the
original. Posters can be done ad lib, and a hoax
to match Barnum’s introduced to make way for
new’visitors, for the early enthusiasts used to
come with their families and their lunches. Equal
to the occasion, Barnum had one of his men paint
a large canvas with the inscription. “To the
Egress.” This was nailed over the door leading
to the back stairs, opening into Ann Street, and
the “Egress,” which proved to be the elephant.

At the American Museum originated some of
the events that have become part and parcel of the
American year: baby shows, poultry shows. flower
shows, and all manner of exhibits and contests in
which young people were interested and could take
part. However, Barnum never overlooked the
gentry for they always figured as judges. Carillons
and carilloneurs, which of late years have been
delighting people in many cities, are the epitome of
the bell-ringers that he brought over almost a
hundred years ago.

One of the most successful and retnunerative of
all the enterprises was General Tom Thumb, the
midget. This suggests a character show, with
some stock folk and as many others as the group
wants to include. \Vith Tom Thumb, Phineas
Taylor Barnum made good on the poster quoted
above, for he did indeed go to England with him,
visit the Queen and at least one Oriental ofbcial,
not to mention making a considerable stir through-
out English society and later on the Continent.

i

BARNUIVI RETURNS—TO THE PLAYGROUND 91

The story of 110w he brought Jenny Lind to
America, sight unseen, voice unheard, makes pub-
licity stunts of our day seem pallid. Very few peo-
ple in America had heard of her, yet Barnum
paved the way for her coming so skillfully that up
to that time—1850—New York never had turned
itself upside down so completely for any visiting
celebrity. And Barnum had a hard time raising
the money to bring her over!

Since the Aquarium—originally Castle
Garden, where Jenny Lind made her Ameri-
can dehut—has been removed, it would be
doubly interesting to have a program built
around the place and the event.

Minstrel shows flourished in the years
from 1840 to 1850, and since these were a
native product thoroughly American in
spirit, it would be highly apprOpriate to fit
one into the Barnum scheme of things. This
would be for the boys only, if faithful to the
pattern, for there were no women in the
casts of the minstrels. There is ample ma-
terial available that will help you to get to-
gether an authentic show. Walk arounds,
sentimental ballads, tall stories, shrewd, topical

jokes, all these were part and parcel of the 'min-
strel show.

The most popular act of the iirSt show of this
kind was “Jim Crow.” There are singing games
still in use in which this old favorite figures and
Fred Stone had a song about him in one of his

well-known shows. One of the original verses
runs like this —

'VVheel about, turn about,

Do jis so;

And ebery time I wheel about
I jump Jim Crow.

It is interesting to remember that
Joseph Jefferson was introduced to the
stage by way of Jim Crow. Thomas Rice
brought him on at the age of four in a

  
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

bag which he dumped on the floor as he song—
Ladies and Gentlemen,

I’d have for you to know
I’se got a little darky here
To jump Jim Crow.

Barnum, not overlooking anything with as much
appeal as ther‘minstrel show, organized the Ethi-
opian Serenaders. Mistah Tambo and Mistah
Bones, of the his invention, were favorite charac—
ters with their timely jokes. In addition, wher-
ever the Serenaders traveled, the local celebrities
heard their names mentioned during the show.
Jigs, fancy dance steps, tambou-
rines, and castanets were intro-
duced, and they should be a part
of the playground production.

It was for the minstrels that
Stephen Foster wrote “My Old
Kentucky Home,” “Old Black
Joe,” “Old Folks at Home,” and
“O Susanna,” so they should by
all means be sung, preceded by a
brief talk about their author.

“Dixie” was written for a min-
strel show walk around by Dan
Emmett. Lincoln heard it at a
performance in 1860 and shouted
from his box, “Let’s have it
again!” .

All these, and many more items

92 BARNUM RETURNS-—TO THE PLAYGROUND

garnered from this great American success story,
will of course lead up to the final three-ring circus
performance.

\Vhen it comes to circus time, you will find that
any group of lively youngsters will probably have
more ideas than you can cram into an afternoon’s
entertainment. In Barnum’s circus, however, you
must not forget Jumbo, his celebrated elephant.
So important was this pachyderm that he was
perpetuated as a stuffed toy, and was probably
the progenitor of them all.

Reckoned in the innocent delight he distributed
so widely and that is still bestowed by his succes-
sors. Barnum richly deserves to be remembered
as patron saint of entertainment. And surely he

worked his miracles !

\

Some Interesting Documents

We quote here two documents from his mem-
oirs——the first proclamation of the firm of Barnum
and Bailey, and Mr. Bailey’s note concerning the
partnership. Both are delightful and extraordin-
ary in the annals of American enterprise.

Bridgeport, Conn., December 1, 1887.

Rising, Phoenix-like, from the ashes of my fifth
great fire, which only served to illuminate my path
of duty as the American people’s champion amuse-
ment provider, I have taken into equal partnership
my energetic and experienced friend and former
associate, James A. Bailey. We have enlarged and
vastly improved The Greatest Show on Earth, which
we propose to establish as a permanence, with a
reserve capital of several million dollars. \Ve also
intend at an early date to establish in all our prin-
cipal cities great museums of natural and artificial
curiosities, to which will be added a spacious lecture
room for scientific experiments and historical lectures,
panoramas, pantomimes and light entertainments of a
pleasing and general nature. The Barnum and Bailey
Show will present to this and future generations a
\Vorld’s Fair and a Moral School of Object Teach-
ing, of unexampled variety and superior excellence,
more amusing, instructive, comprehensive and vast
than was ever before seen or dreamed of. It is the
pride of my declining years that I am able to give,
as the result of my long life of experience and deter-
mined effort, that innocent and educational diversion
which every one concedes that human nature imper-
ativer demands.

The public’s Obedient servant,
mems T. BARNUM.

Mr. Bailey’s Policy
In reentering the amusement field by becoming
Mr. P. T. Barnum's equal and sole partner, and
assuming the personal management of the great com-
. bined exhibitions bearing our names, I respectfully

avail myself of the opportunity afforded to briefly
and plainly state the basis upon which they are
organized, the principles on which they will be con-
ducted, and the policy that will, under all circum-
stances, be rigidly enforced and adhered to.

I have returned to the show business to stay, so
long as my health and life are spared, and to do my

full share in not only placing and maintaining the
Great Barnum and.Bailey \Vorld’s Fair of \‘Vonders

upon a far higher, broader and mOre liberal plane
than was ever attained by any similar enterprise, but
to continually enlarge its possessions and strengthen
its popularity.

The partnership is not a temporary, but a perma-
nent one, equally binding upon both partners, their
heirs, administrators, executors, or assigns; and the
death of either of them will in no wise affect the
existence and continuation of the show.

It is not an experiment, but a solid, established
business enterprise, whose name and character are
continuous and permanent.

It will never, under any circumstances, or at any
time or place, be divided, and the malicious circu-
lators of libels or slanders to the contrary will be
prosecuted and punished to the full extent of the law.

It will be honestly advertised.

The whole of it will always be exhibited in every
place, large or small, wherever it is advertised to
appear and in no place will a single feature or act
be omitted.

The magnificent free street pageant will never any-
where he curtailed by the omission of a single

attraction.

Its menageries and museum tent will never be
taken down at night, until after the conclusion of
both the circus and hippodrome performances.

The afternoon and evening performances will in-
variably be equally complete, perfect and satisfactory,
and under no circumstances will the evening perform-
ance be, in the slightest degree, abbreviated, cut or
neglected, but each and every act thereof will be
presented according to the printed program.

The convenience and pleasure of its patrons will be
specially considered. It will be a place which an un-
attended child can visit with perfect safety. Its em-
ployees will be required to deal fairly and courte-
ously with all, and to answer all proper questions
intelligently and politely.

No peddling will be permitted under its tents.

No camp-followers, street fakirs, gamblers or dis-
reputable or intoxicated persons will be tolerated on
its grounds.

Everything in the slightest degree calculated to
offend or annoy its patrons will be absolutely pro-
hibited. Morality, purity and refinement will be the
rule without exception.

I shall always be present to investigate any com-
plaints and to strictly enforce the above regulations,
and all others that may be necessary to protect both
the public and our own good name.

JAMES A. BAILEY.

Speechcraft in the Playground Program

for the public school playgrounds, St. Louis

has, it is believed, found in one of the oldest of
the arts something new for the recreation program.
Not to be confused with the dramatic activities
which have long had a place in the recreation cur—
riculum, speechcraft aims at developing on each
playground a number of children who can take
over the speaking at special events and exhibits
and make the routine announcements formerly
made by members of the playground staff. In
short, the course seeks to develop qualities of
leadership.

In addition to being immediately useful on the
playground in connection with previously estab—
lished activities, speechcraft aims at helping the
children achieve mastery of a type of self—expres—
sion. The playgrounds, with their atmosphere of
freedom from restraint and their emphasis upon
bodily activities, provide an ideal background for
speech development, for good speech requires both
mental well-being and bodily control.

I N ITS NEWLY ORGANIZED “speechcraft” program

When the new program was first considered a

number of impor—
tant questions de-
manded answers.
Probably the one
most persistently
raised was “How
are we going to
convince children
that speech is
fun?” After all,
the playgrounds
cannot force child
dren to study, nor

would it be
desirable. Any

Members of the
Speechcraft Club
of Laclede Play-
ground discuss-
ing fire preven-
tion at one of
their meetings

 

By MARTHA MAY BOYER
Supervisor of Speechcraft

Public School Playgrounds
St. Louis. Missouri

new course must pass the test of recreation
standards.

In seeking an answer to that question, which
threatened for a while to eliminate speechcraft
before it had been tried, a hasty examination of
established playground activities indicated that
they all involved effort. They all depended for
motivation upon the enthusiasm of the instructor,
the pleasure experienced by the children in the
accomplishment of something of which they could
be proud, and finally upon the pleasant relation—
ships established with others in the cooperative
effort required. Games, handcrafts, music——-all
require effort and concentration. They have sur-



3i
i

94 SPEECHCRAFT IN THE PLAYGROUND PROGRAM

vived the difficulties of play-
ground initiation. \Vhy not
speech?

\Vith these things in mind,
speechcraft was established.
Its survival depended upon
instructors not specifically
trained for the work. They
were provided with mimeo-
graphed material offering
practical suggestions. Speech theory was reduced
to a minimum. Speech must be visible and audi-
ble and must develop coherently a centralized
thought. Classes, held weekly for those instructors
who could attend, were given over to the discus-
sion of mutual problems and the introduction of
plans for the new course.

At two successive Saturday staff meetings
speech clubs gave demonstrations of simple activi-
ties. These served to develop interest and to give
directors a starting place.

Selecting Themes

At the beginning of the season it was decided
that a good central theme for the speech activities
would provide a background of material for
groups which would otherwise be unable to find
anything to talk about—the most common com-
plaint of the novice. “Selling St. Louis” was
chosen as a theme, and the speech classes were
designated as “Sell St. Louis” clubs. Many city
agencies gave excellent material to the new clubs.
The Chamber of Commerce provided pamphlets
on St. Louis history, industries, and even weather.
A department store cooperated by furnishing a
hundred illustrated pamphlets on the city; and the
City Hall was the donor of a beautiful set of re-
cently published “Good Government Institute”
books.

Clubs concentrated on the history and geography
of their own neighborhoods. Examination of place
and family names yielded interesting stories. Chil-
dren arranged interviews with those who might
furnish them with information they were seeking.
The interviews were important for they put the
children “on their own” in a real life situation.
Some good programs entertaining to the entire
playground developed from these activities. One
club conducted an imaginary bus tour of the city
with stops at major centers of interest.

Boys' clubs seemed to enjoy most practice in
parliamentary procedure. In emulation of the na-
tional conventions in session, speeches of nomina-

In the February issue of Recreation there
appeared an article entitled "The Speech
Arts in the Recreation Program" which told
how oral speechI written speech. and dra-
matics may function in the program. In this
article Miss Boyer tells how some of the
principles outlined are being applied on the
public school playgrounds of St. Louis. If
any other city has initiated a similar plan,
may we not have information about it?

tion and acceptance were
attempted.

Popular among the girl:I
was a “courtesy project” in
which introductions were;
made and behavior in social
situations discussed and
demonstrated.

To stimulate interest in
beauty of- speech, choral‘
reading was used; and as a conclusion to the work
in choral speech, five clubs united to form a verse
choir of seventy-five.

Since children, as well as adults, look forward
to some reward for work, proficiency certificates
were given to members of the “Sell St. Louis"
clubs who had completed a number of speech
projects commendably.

Climaxing the Program

As a climax to the summer's program, some
thirty clubs met at the Board of Education and,
after a short meeting handled by the children at
which six administrative officers of the Board of
Education were guests, marched with a police
escort to the City Hall where heads of the various
departments of city government spoke briefly
about their duties. A high spot of the morning
was a visit to the Mayor’s rooms.

In evaluating the summer’s work in speech one
should not ignore the fact that many errors were
made. Instructors, as well as pupils, have much
to learn. At the same time, the kindly reception
given the new work by instructors and pupils alike
was most encouraging.

One can almost dare to look ahead to the time
when many children, now painfully inarticulatc,
will be able to stand erectly and looking the audi-
ence in the eye say what they have to say in
simple effective language, and say it so distinctly
that it can be easily understood. In helping them
to learn to do so, the playground is not violating
its principles but only enlarging its program to
make room for an activity in complete harmony
with principles long accepted.

“ ‘Language,’ said Ben Johnson, ‘shows the man ;
speak that I may see thee.’ Children are eager to
meet their teachers more than half way in every
sincere effort to enable our future men and women
to reveal their true selves through their speech.”—
Dorolliy Stone lV/zile in The H iglz School
Thrspian.

A Night of Knights

HESS FOR YEARS has been
C one of the most popular

quiet game play and
tournament activities of the
Milwaukee playground sea—
son. In 1942, for the second
year, the annual tournament
was glamorized into a mag-
nificent Night of Knights.
Under the floodlights of the
Marquette University football stadium, 866 chil-
dren played their matches while 6,500 spectators
divided attention between them and a fast-moving,
colorful program. The event marked a splendid
high in interplayground and community coopera-
tion. Promoted by the Department of Municipal
Recreation in cooperation with the Milwaukee
Journal, it received wide newSpaper, radio and

The Depar‘lmenl’ of Municipal Recrea’rion
of Milwaukee has been a pioneer in ihe
ieaching of chess playing. For nine years.
on +he cil’y's 72 playgrounds and in HS
28 social ceni’ersI chess playing has
occupied a place of prominence and
38,000 individuals' boih children and
adull’sl have discovered' +hrough ex-
perl' insiruci’ion in +he fine poin’rs of
+he game. how fascinal'ing il’ can be.

 

placard publicity. The pro-
gram was the result of the
enthusiasm and effort of hun-
dreds of people. It began with
an impressive parade of the
contestants marching two by
two through an avenue of
flags, starred a colorful live
chess game. and featured, in
three—ring circus fashion,
playground and social center activities—bands,
choruses. folk dances, tumbling and bar work,
matches in badminton, casting, volleyball, table
tennis, and playground games. The grand finale to
both the matches and the program numbers brought
the audience to its feet in the singing of the “Star-
Spangled Banner” while a huge tableau, “Ameri-
cans All" centered about the American flag.

Dad's Day

on the

Playground
B

9

JAMES MASIK
Franksville, Wisconsin

1.

 

All-City Playground
Dad's Day in Racine
was dedicated to the
fathers of the com-
munity. It offered
each father the op-
. porfunity to watch
his son participate
in the recreation
program. and he saw

the dividends his

taxes were payin 9.

Courtesy Cock County Forest Preserve District

first confronted with the problem of devising a

program that would be of maximum attraction
to the fathers and yet be of interest to the boys of
the playground. Most playground programs, no
doubt, contain softball leagues, so that champion-
ship games between the sectional league winners
would be ideal for Dad’s Day. We next had to
meet the problem of the choice of the date and the
time of day. Early afternoons would be out of the
question, but late afternoons seemed more satis—
factory, with Saturday afternoon providing a
time when most of the fathers could come to the
playground.

Eventually the second to last Saturday of the
playground season was selected for Dad’s Day. By
that time the softball leagues had finished their
scheduled games. With the sectional champion-
ships decided, everything was ready for playing
the city championship game. The four classes of
softball leagues consisted of the cubs (under eleven
years of age), midgets (under thirteen years of
age), cadets (under fifteen years of age), and
juniors (under seventeen years of age). All the
age limits are prior to May Ist. The sectional
champions were scheduled to play their first two
(111’. of three games series.

To insure a good attendance, the local news-
paper informed the adults of the occasion, while
the newly instituted playground newspaper and
the playground bulletin kept up the interest of the
children. Invitations to dads, mimeographed on
slips and taken home by the boys, read as follows:

96

l N PLANNING for a Dad’s Day in Racine we were

DEAR DAD:

You are invited to attend the All-City Playground
Dad’s Day Program at Lewis Field on Saturday,
August 12th, at 1:30 P. M.

Softball championships will be decided between
north and south side champions in four boys' divi-
sions. Bicycle races, mixed volleyball, table tennis
and horseshoe tournaments will be demonstrated by
youth of the city.

The big feature of the afternoon is reserved for
you, for there will be a slowpitch ball game between
the dads from the north and south sides.

Knowing that you will have a good time, I remain.

Your son,

I I I n o I I I o n I n v o o I I o I I o I I n a a l

\Vhen a father arrived at the celebration. he was
first attracted by the colorful “\Velcome, Dads"
sign prominently displayed at the playground, and
then his attention was caught by a large printed
program of the afternoon’s activities:

1 :30 SOFTBALL
North side Cub champions vs. south side Cub

champions
North side Cadet champions vs. south side Cadet

champions

2:00 BICYCLE RACES
Midget one-half mile races
Junior one-half mile races

2 :30 SOFTBALL

North side Midget champions vs. south side Midget
champions

North side Junior champions vs. south side Junior
champions

3 :00 BICYCLE RACES

Cub one-half mile races
Cadet one—half mile races

(Continued on page 111)

Health Clubs on Cleveland's Playgrounds

in Cleveland are a tribute

to the interdepartmental
cooperation of the nation’s
sixth city. In June 1940, a
committee of health officials
from the Board of Education,
the Health Department, and
the Health Council met with
the director of the Cleveland
District Dairy Council and
with playground officials from
the Board of Education and
the Division of Recreation to discuss a health club
program for the city’s playgrounds.

The general plan which was worked out by the
committee involved four steps:

I. Each playground would organize a health
club of boys and girls from eight to fourteen years
of age. The clubs would meet regularly during a
six week period.

2. At the end of that period a boy and girl
would be selected on the basis of interest and
progress to represent each playground in a city-
wide contest.

3. Each of the winners would be given a thorough
physical examination and rated on the basis of
1,000 points by members of the Cleveland Dental

PLAYGROUND health clubs

By' MARGARET MULAC
Division of Recreation

Cleveland. Ohio

More than 3.500 children participated
in Cleveland's health clubs during the
first season. and membership increased
considerably during the summer of I94l.
This year. with the increasing emphasis
on physical fitness and general civil-
ian health. the playground health clubs
are expected to play an even larger part
in Cleveland's iunior wartime program.

Society and Academy of Medi—
cine. The names of the two
children scoring highest would
be withheld until Fair Day.

4. All winners would be
given a trip to the County
Fair where they would be
presented with “Champion”
ribbons. The “Grand Cham—
pion” winners were to receive
their ribbons from the Mayor
of Cleveland.

Children were given blanks
to be signed by their parents in an effort to enlist
the aid of fathers and mothers in improving the
health habits of the children. In some neighborhoods
the parents, ever suspicious of forms and blanks,
not only refused to sign the blanks but forbade their
children to participate in the activity. The program
was explained to parents, and the difficulty was
cleared up.

Each club member was given a bright red and
white celluloid button, labeled “Health Club,”
which served as advance advertising for the com—
ing meetings. Small printed pamphlets following
the general outline of the program were distributed
among the children at each club meeting. Teeth,

This is 1V hat They Are Made Of made dental

 

97

98 HEALTH CLUBS ON CLEI'ELAND'S PLAYGROUNDS

hygiene sound like fun. while Pirnirking and H fle-
ing included hiking hints and recipes for outdoor
cooking. A third pamphlet. Get Out. was divided
into three sections: summertime health. good
sportsmanship. and bits of history about familiar
games. A personal score sheet to be filled in by
each child asked such questions as "Do you eat at
regular hours ?" and “Did you brush your teeth
twice today P”

The program followed by the health clubs was
designed to be interesting, even amusing. and
many a valuable health fact was driven home with
a funny story. Much of the material used in the
clubs could be put into scrapbooks and kept by the
children for future reference.

\Veekly meeting plans were prepared in ad-
vance to help play leaders set up their programs.
Before long. interested little club members were
holding informal discussion on health problems,
making scrapbooks, and playing exciting health
games. They visited near-by dairies, worked out
Red Cross pro jects, and took health tests.

Health Games

These are some of the games which kept the
children thinking and learning about health while
they were having fun :

Ten Questions. One-child leaves the group while
the others decide upon the name of a fruit. milk
product. vegetable, or other healthy food. The
child then returns to the group and begins asking
questions of the others in an attempt to identify the
chosen food. All questions must be worded to be
answered “yes” or “no,” and the one who is It
must guess the word after ten questions.

Dairy Product, FruitI or Vegetable? The play-
ers stand in a circle with one of them in the cen-
ter. It points to a person and says “Fruit” (or
"Vegetable" or “Dairy Product") and immedi-
iately tosses a ball high in the air. The person
called on must name a food in the group called
before the ball drops to be caught by him. If the
player fails to answer before he catches the ball,
he must take the place of the thrower. No one
may name a food mentioned before.

In a variation.of this game It throws a bean
bag or soft ball at the chosen
player who must then call out
the name of his food before It
can count to ten.

I Am Thinking. The leader says.
“I am thinking of a green vege-
table beginning with the letter

The National Recreation Associa-
tion has prepared a bibliography
of health plays. pageants. and
songs, with information regard-
ing the sources of such material.
This may be secured on request.

 
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
  
 

C." The player who guesses the correct answer
asks the next question. To familiarize children
with vitamins the question may be, “What vege-
table am I thinking of that is rich in vitamin C ant
begins with the letter T?" Variation: “My grand
father owns a dairy (fruit or meat) store. In it It
sells something beginning with I." Encourage th
children to name only protective foods.

Alphabet. The leader has a set of cards eacl
containing a letter of the alphabet at least two
inches high. The group decides what the letter:
are to represent—fruits, vegetables, milk products.
The leader shuffles the cards and shows them t
the players one at a time. The child first namin
a food beginning with the letter shown is given
the card. At the end of the game the child witl
the most cards is teacher for the next game.

I Am Planning a Meal. The leader begins, “I an
planning a well-balanced meal. and the first thing
I would have would be tomato juice.” The secon
player adds another food to the list after repeat—
ing the food first mentioned. This continues with
each child repeating the previous listing and add-
ing a new food. Any child who gives the list in
correctly is eliminated or must pay a forfeit.

 
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   

Another version: “I am planning the foods I
should have today. First I shall buy a quart of
milk.” The next child adds another food grom
that should be in the daily meal pattern. Pt!- 
until they learn these food groups well: one (
milk. two vegetables. two fruits. an egg,
meat or cheese or fish. cereal or bread. two tab
spoons of butter. After these general gro
learned, repeat the game adding the n"
dividual vegetables. fruits. and other f .

Other Activities

The study of milk proved especa]
with the club members since local dairi _
a bottle of milk to each child so that 
first-hand information about this food.

The nationally popular quiz contdt
favorite with the clubs. Children. like Oh
ents, want to show “how much they know-'1
were carefully prepared so that they were
formative as well as intern
tive. Sometimes multiple-cl
questions like the following y’v '
included: '

I. \Ve should have fresh air

(Check one answer)

(Continued on page 118)

Totem Poles and Tepees

near the town of Cali-

fornia, Ohio, is an old salt
lick, once famed meeting
ground of the Miami and Shaw—
nee Indians. Here, in tribal days, animals came
many miles to the salt spring, and rival tribes
battled for this made—to-order hunting ground.

There is still a council ring at the old salt lick,
but the forest drums beat only on summer camp
days and the “warriors” who gather at the con—
clave are children from Cincinnati’s. downtown
playgrounds. Solemn—faced totem poles stand
guard over this modern day camp whose historic
setting makes it ideal for Indian lore and hand-
craft programs. In the surrounding woods high
poled tepees provide game and craft rooms as well
as Indian "atmosphere."

The Recreation Department’s day camp was
made available to more than 1,200 Cincinnati chil—
dren last year through a contribution from Charles
F. \Villiams, president of the Western and South—
ern Life Insurance Company. Mr. Williams pro-

Sour H EA sr of Cincinnati

By MABEL MADDEN
Supervisor of Community Activities
Public Recreation Commission

Cincinnati. Ohio

vided transportation, food, and
extra supervision at camp for
seventy—live children daily. A
bus called for the would-be
Indians at the playgrounds each
day at 9 o’clock. One hour later they disembarked
at camp and trailed off into the woods for a nature
hike and games. At noon the troop of hungry
hikers came back for a hot lunch. Then with
due ceremony the city—bred “braves” tiled into
their council ring to watch the dancing, games,
and ceremonials demonstrated by White Eagle,
half-Indian specialist.

When the ancient rites were over and the last
drum beat had died away, boys and girls hurried
out through the grotesque totem poles for a dipin
their modern swimming pool. At 4 P. M. the bus
was ready again and at live they were back at the
playground.

In addition to his day camp contribution, Mr.
\Villiams also arranged for several thousand chil—
dren to visit the Cincinnati Zoological Garden last

(Continued on page 108)

 

99

Recreation Training for Volunteers

By LOUISE LYNNE

no.“ ITS INCEPTIOX, the WPA
Recreation Project for New
York City has made available
to all its leaders opportunities for
continuous professional deveIOpment. Since Pearl
Harbor. however. a militant desire on the part of
the public for active participation in the all—out
war effort has resulted in a broadening of the train-
ing to include recreation courses for volunteers.

The Volunteer Training Project, under the
sponsorship of the Police Department, has two
major purposes: one, the placing of trained vol—
unteers with agencies indicating a need for their
services; the other, that of building citizen morale

and equipping volunteers to be of assistance in
emergency situations.

In forming an advisory committee composed of
individuals representing the various or allied fields
of recreation in which the training is to be given,
every effort has been made to select only those
people having sufficient interest and time to devote
to the careful planning required, as well as to

assist in preparing background lectures for the
various courses.

Responsibility for recruiting volunteers and pub-
licizing the training is shared by the sponsors, the
agencies represented on the advisory committee,
and the Project itself.

In order that volunteers may make a maximum
contribution, the agencies, in many instances, first
interview the applicants to determine their inter-
ests and aptitudes before referring them to the
courses.

To avoid duplication of effort between the agen-
cies and the project, the course outline, together
with a request for endorse-
ment, is sent to the Civilian
Defense Volunteer OHice. In-
formative fliers, prepared by
the Project and approved by
the committee, are distributed
through the cooperating agen-
cies. These fliers carry an
application blank which is
used for referral by the agency
or institution recommending
the volunteer.

Courses emphasizing civil-

100

Manager
WPA Recreation Project
New York City

The need for volunteer workers has been
greatly stimulated by the war situation.
and organizations giving courses training
for recreation leadership are redoubling
their efforts along this line. The WPA
Recreation Project for New York City has
given training courses for junior hostesses
and for home recreation in emergencies.
and is planning a course in recreation
for hospitals. The preliminary outline
for a course in camp leadership pre-
sented here will show something of the
setup and techniques used in the courses.

ian morale and emergency assistance
have been set up for a five-week
period, meeting once each week for
two hours. Refresher courses for
volunteer placement have been organized for an
eight-week period, meeting in three-hour sessions
once each week, or for a six-week period, meeting

_in two-hour sessions twice each week.

\Vhile some of the courses are given at the W PA
Recreation Training School. much of the training
is conducted in Police Athletic League locations,
community centers, churches, American Legion
halls, and other agency buildings.

Registration takes place during the first session.
A simplified but comprehensive record of the ap-
plicant’s experience, training, and hobbies serves
as a guide in placing those who volunteer their
services. A copy of this record is sent to the Ci-
vilian Defense Volunteer Ofiice upon request.

Each session of the course is divided into two
periods, the first being given over to lecture and
demonstration, the second dealing with a practical
application of the work.

Eight to ten skills are offered during the labora-
tory period. According to his desires and ability,
the applicant may either concentrate on one or
select a combination of allied skills.

During the training period, progress records are
kept for each volunteer. A transcript indicating
the completed course, together with the hours of
training, is given to the volunteer and to the Ci-
vilian Defense Volunteer Office.

If the volunteer serves with an agency in which
the Recreation Project operates a program, con-
tinued training and super-
vision is assumed by a W PA
supervisor.

Outline of Course for Camp
Leadership Training

The following preliminary
outline was designed as a
working'plan by a committee
and used as a basis for further
development of the individual
outlines for camp leadership
training. -

RECREATION TRAINING FOR VOLUNTEERS 101

Topics for Presentation and Discussion

I. Camping and the Present Emergency

This presentation will cover the adjustments" in
camping progress made necessary by the war situa-

tion, as follows:
A. Emotional reaction of children to present day
conditions and what the camp can do to balance

them.
B. Counselor attitude toward each other and toward

campers.
C. Building attitudes in the future.
D. Planning for camp evacuation.

II. Types and Purposes of Camp Organizations

A. The period of beginning.

B. The period of expansion, 1900-1920.

C. Summary of growth to 1930.

D. Types of camping; directors, counselors.

III. Relationship Between the Sending and the
Camp Agencies

A. The value and use of the social and health his—
tory of the child. ‘

B. Pre-camp health examination and remedial
treatment.

C. The use of above records in camp.

D. Other camp records and reports ——
1. Infirmary 3. Activities, etc.
2. Daily Clean-up 4. Counselor reports

IV. Group Work and Individual Approaches in
Camping

A. Group needs and outcomes.
B. Individual interests, abilities and problems.

V. Selection of Activities in Programming

A. Environment and camp progress
Types of Environments:
l. Fixed—(River, .mountain, woods)
2. Mobile—(Camp facilities, camp equipment
and camp leadership. Adjacent community,
a current events)

B. Steps in program planning.
C. Program activities in relation to war effort.

VI. Responsibilities of Camp Directors and Camp
Counselors

(Panel discussion of directors and counselors)

VII. Health and Safety in Camp

A. Pre—camp health examination.
B. Health program at camp.
C. Hazards and hurdles —-
1. First Aid
2. Clothing
D. \Vaterfront.
E. Camp sanitation.

3. Daily habits
4. Kitchen cleanliness

VIII. Spiritual Value in Camping

A. Children’s attitudes toward present day social
problems.

B. Counselor’s responsibility in promoting ethical,
social and moral standards.

C. Nature as a medium for developing spiritual
values.
D. Carry over value of camp experiences.

Laboratory and Demonstration
I. Nature in Camping

A. Methods of motivating interest.
B. Methods of teaching.
C. Coordination of nature with other camp activities.
1). Nature notebooks -—-
1. Types, uses, organization
2. Making the nature notebook

II. Photography in Camping

A. Review of general principles of photography.
B. Setting up the darkroom.
C. Use of photography with—

1. Nature activities 5. Social activities

2. Hikes 6. Bulletin boards
3. Crafts 7. Records and reports
4. Sports

Ill. Leathercratt

A. Types and uses of leather.
B. Basic tools and techniques.
C. Project selection—

1. Belts ‘ 5. Novelty jewelry
2. Buttons 6. Book covers
3. Hike bags 7. First Aid kits

4. Tie slides
IV.-Tin Craft

A. Sources and adaptation to projects.
B. Handmade basic tools.
C.“ Demonstration of techniques —
1." Cutting 3. Joining
2. Forming 4. Finishing r
p" Selection of projects —
1. Rhythm instruments 4. Ta-bledecorations
2. Stage sound effects ' 5. Lanterns
3. Wind and sand toys 6. Cooking equipment

V. Weaving

A. Demonstration of —

8. \Vriting cases, etc.

1. Hungarian loom 5. Square knotting

2. Cardboard loom 6. Netting

3. Navajo loom 7. Swedish bias weave

4. Barrel hoop loom 8. Carrick bend weave
B. Selection of projects——

1. Purse 4. Mat

2. Belt 5. Bag

3. Headband 6. Scarf

VI. Pottery

A. Care, conditioning and uses of clay for primitive
pottery.

B. Tools and techniques adapted to age groups.

C. Simple decoration.

1). Homemade kilns.

E. Selection of projects.

VII. Whittling

A. Care, safety and handling of a knife.
B. Selection of wood and uses for scrap material.

102

C. Selection of projects——
1. Totem poles
2. Animal figures
3. Puzzles
4. Tops
5. Game equipment
6. Knives and forks

VIll. Woodwork

A. Use of rustic wood and
scrap lumber.

B. Basic and supplemen-
tary tools.

C. Basic techniques—
l.Cutting 3. Joining
2. Forming 4. Finishing

0. Selection of projects—
1. Bird houses
2. Percussion

instruments

3. Foot stools
4. Notebooks

IX. Drama
A. Simple techniques and participation in—
]. Skits 5.
2. Pantomimes 6.
3. Dramatized stories 7.
4. Action songs n 8.

B. Problems in—

1. Choice of materials 4.
2. Age group interest 5.

3. Casting 6.

C. Production—
1. Simple stage sets
2. Property

X. Dance

A. Demonstration and participation in—
4. Line dances
5. Social dance
6. Modern dance

1. Folk dances
2. Square dances
3. Reels

Xl. Music

A. General principles in group singing.

B. Simplified group leading.

C. Selection of material for—

5. Housekeeping equipment
6. Cabin games

7. Bulletin boards
8. \Vaterfront equipment

3. Costumes and make-up
4. Lighting
D. Puppetry and Shadow Puppets.

To help meet the increasing demand for in-
formation on recreation training co-ursesI
the National Recreation Association has is-
sued a booltlet entitled "Training Volunteers
for Recreation Service." prepared by George
D. Butler. which should serve as a practical
guide for groups otiering such courses. The
subiects discussed include Types of Train-
ing Courses. Preliminary Organization, and
the Course —- content. organization. and
method. The latter part of the booltlet con-
tains outlines of a number of typical courses
recently given in various communities.
Copies are now available at fifty cents each.

RECREATION TRAINING FOR VOLUNTEERS

XIII. Rainy Day Programs

A. Cabin games—-
1. Table games
2. Puzzles
3. Pencil and paper
games
4 Guessing games
5. Tongue twisters
6. Stunts and tricks
7. Quizzes and bees
8. "Telegraph" tourna-
ments
B. Outdoor activities —
1. Rain hikes
2. Weather observation

C. Camp Improvement Projects.

1. Initiation
2. Farewell

3. Merit and award
4. Amateur talent

Shadowgraphs

opportunity
Ceremonials . .
I - - XV. Hlltlng
mprowzations . .
Plays and pageants A. Organization.

B. Trail signs.

Original scripts
Rehearsals

Committees .
3. Collecting

3. Signalling

E. Equipment—
1. Preparation of
overnight kits
2. Bed rolling
F. Safety and Health—
1. Roadside safety 3.
2. Poisonous plants 4.

D. Hiking games—
1. Roadside cribbage 4.
2. Challenges

XIV. Campfire Suggestions

A. Significance, values and purposes of campfire.
B. Planning of campfire themes and committees-—

5. Educational
6. Cultural

7. Inspirational
8. Ceremonial

c. Hiking themes—
1. Nature appreciation 4. Historical-exploratory
2. Treasure hunting

5. Overnight experience
6. Trail blazing

Compass games
5. Nature games

3. First Aid kits
. Utensils
5. Clothing

A

Drinking water
Pack carrying

XVI. Outdoor Coolting and Firebuilding

l. Campfires 4. Assemblies

2. Vespers 5. Grace , _

3. Hikes 6. Special events 1' BOW?
2. Toasting

1). Age group interests in types of songs —

6. Cowboy songs

7. Sea chanteys

8. Religious songs

9. Rounds and novelty songs
10. Action songs

1. Patriotic
2. Folk
3. Historical
4. \Vork songs
5. Spirituals
E. Rhythm Bands.

1“. Novelty musical instruments.

6. Musical games.

Xll. Storytelling

A. Selection of material for age groups.

B. Techniques—
]. Relating
2. Illustrating

l. Cache

2. Incinerator

3. Drains
4. Shelter
3. Dramatizing

4. Creating D. Safety.

A. Organization of games.
B. Firebuilding and apparatus for cooking-—

3. Baking

C. Kinds and uses of firewood.
1). Selection of menus.

E. Outdoor etiquette.

P. Safety precautions.

XVII. Pioneering (to be given outdoors)

A. History and adaptation to camp sites.
15. Pioneering projects—

5. Cranes

6. Kitchen equipment

7. Sanitation

8. Lashing and knotting

C.‘ Advanced and trick cooking.

I
I
I

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap’n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

.S‘TRONOtl/IY. “Earth, Moon and Planets,”
Fred L. W hipple. Blakiston Publishers,
Philadelphia. 293 pp. illus. $2.50. Latest infor-
mation. Non-technical language. Planet finder and
star charts. ‘

Birds. “American Water Birds, Also Hawks,
Owls and Game Birds,” Maitland A. Edey. Ran-
dom House, New York, 72 pp. illus. $1. Almost
half the pages are Fuertes color plates from the
New York State Museum.

“Birds in Your Backyard,” Virginia S. Eifert.
.lllinois State Museum. 238 pp. illus. 60 cents.
Native birds in their haunts with a check list for
Sangamon County. Useful in many communities.

.“Bluehird Housing Project,” T. E. Musselman.
Audubon Society of Missouri, Sullivan, 1941. 75
pp. mimeographed. The author has distributed
leaflets of plans for houses and for placing them.
In good years he has “better than 90 per cent
occupancy.”

C amp l/Voodhotm, nature training school of the
W orcester Natural History Society, West Boyls-
ton, Massachusetts, reports for its first season, 1941.
There was an adult leader’s camp and three groups
of children leaders each for a three-week period. A
nature trail, a wild flower and fern garden, and
maintaining a flower table were some of the proj-
ects. Volunteers assisted Robert T. Cossaboom,
the director.

Camps. The following statistics were recently
gathered from camp directors, Connecticut Valley
Camping Association. Fifty per cent expect a
larger enrollment, 33 per cent plan to expand ac-
tivities, 33 per cent are inclined to take more chil-
dren, both paying and charity, 50 per cent antici-
pate a shortage of men leaders, 4-H camps do not
expect older members, 60 per cent have offered
their facilities for evacuation uses. This may be
suggestive as to the camping situation in your area.

“Community Camps 1140111101.” Work Projects
Administration, 49 Fourth Street, San Francisco.
36 pp-

Conservation. The New Hampshire Conserva-

tion Federation, formed at the University of New
Hampshire, Durham, comprises all state and local

organizations interested in conservation. The Fed-
eration aims to promote conservation education at
all school levels and to promote legislation favor-
able to the cause.

“Fish Cookery in the Open,” W. T. Conn.
U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Interior,
Washington, D. C. 25 pp. From fish cakes to
oyster stew.

“Fishing, Complete Handbook,” Don Carpenter.
Canfield Publishing Company, Washington, 42 pp.
35 cents. New tricks for old timers by a scout—
master.

Forcst Fires, Sabotage by. A new Massachu-
setts law compels towns with forest lands to patrol
their forest during periods of fire hazard. The
weather is divided into five classes. On rainy or
damp days there is no hazard. The number of
patrolnlen in the average town ranges from one
to four.

“Forest Recreation in A [as/ea.” A mimeographed
pamphlet on the recreational facilities of the Kenai
Division of Chugach National Forest, S. W.
Alaska. Write to Regina] Forester, U. S. ForeSt
Service, Juneau, Alaska.

Girl Guide C amps are considered important
enough to be financed by the British government.
The objectives are safety, release of nerve tension,
education, recreation, democratic procedure, inter-
national friendship.

Hotel Nature Service. Maurice Brown, natural-
ist for the Treadway System of Hotels, is sta-
tioned at. Long Trail Lodge, Rutland, Vermont,
in the summer. It took him four years to develop
a bog garden of four hundred plants. He calls a
nature trail an “outdoor museum.” The Tread-
way System must believe that walks and talks
about nature pay dividends.

Lonier, Sidney (1842-1881). A peak in the
Great Smoky Mountains National Park has just
been named for this great southern poet and Hutist
who served in the Civil \Var as a Confederate
soldier, and later became a member of the faculty
of Johns Hopkins University. Do you know his
Song of the Chattahoochee or The illarshes of

103

104 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

Glynn? Tiger Lilies, his first novel, depicts the
Great Smokies.

Museum ll’orkslzop has recently been com-
pleted at Trailside Museum, Cook County Forest
Preserve District. Preparation of microsc0pic
slides, minerals mounted in colored plaster of
Paris, preparation of skeletons, bird models, and
the ancient art of “makeshift” when money is
scarce are some of the activities. The laboratory-
workshop is the headquarters of work clubs.

!

"National-Forest Vacations,’ fifty-four page,
illustrated pamphlet on outdoor recreation in 160
national forests. U.S. Forest Service, W ashington.

National Parks. Great Smoky Mountain Na-
tional Park with 1,247,019 visitors was the “most
visited” national park during the 1941 travel sea-
son. Shenandoah was second. Fort McHenry and
the Statue of Liberty led in national monuments.
All of which shows that there should be superla-
tive outdoor areas reserved from the Appalachians
eastward.

Nature Books. The Boston Public Library and
the twenty-seven branches in which there are chil-
dren's departments have loan boxes from the Chil-
dren’s Museum. The loan box contains exhibit
material closely related to some recent book for
children and stimulates reading. “Loan Exhibits
of Boston's Children's Museum” is an article in
The Museum Nett's.

Park .Museums are interpretive facilities rather
than biological morgues. They usually contain
libraries, lecture halls, and graphic devices. The
museum interprets the real exhibit which is the
park. To see “in a nutshell” the rock layers of the
Grand Canyon which are one mile thick, the story
of a military campaign, the migratory routes of
birds, or the kitchen at \Vashington’s headquar-
ters, or to hear local bird songs by a good whistler
is one thing. To view trees on a nature trail, to
see a wild flower garden arranged in natural set-
tings, to read an historic site marker, to visit an
observation point and orientation station, and to
go on a hike or motor caravan tour is also good
technique. The interpretation of a park must be

based on sound policies and a broadly conceived
interpretive system.

Picnics have always been a kind of peOple's
college among farm families. At picnics the women
trade ideas and the men swap information. (From
Consumers’ Guide, December 1941.) Other activi-
ties are described in The Picm'c Book available

from the National Recreation Association. Price
$1.25. ‘

“Plants, House,” Farmers’ Bulletin 1872. U. S.
Department of Agriculture, \Vashington, 1941. 30
pp. 5 cents.

“Projects for Scouts.” Rural Scouting Service,
New York. 30 pp. 10 cents. Practical for indi-
vidual or group work.

Recreation IMusEum is the name given by San
Francisco’s Recreation Department to its chil-
dren’s museum. The policy is broad enough to
allow the child to use "his leisure time doing the
things he likes to do.” The museum exhibits are
a background for guidance and inspiration.

Terrarium. Are your plants moldy? Too much
water. \Veak and spindly? Too much heat. Check
mold development by dusting tank lightly with
powdered sulphur. Treat badly damaged plant
stems with powdered charcoal.—Aruold Blaufuss,
Turtox News, February, 1942.

Travel. The 1942 Travel Planning Conference,
second of the \Vestern State Promotion Council,
was devoted to a “See the Old \Vest” campaign.
The preserving of customs and physical remains
of the early days is commendable and also good
business. “Travel is the freedom of movement, the
basis of all forms of freedom,” according to Percy
Montgomery of the San Francisco C lirom'de.

Trees. Starting a tree club this spring? If so,
get out your nature-grams on trees and forests.
By the end of January, 1942, there had been eleven
nature-grams on trees and twenty-two nature-
grams on forests. What we have said about trees
might be about such items as stars, birds, flowers,
or radio. ' Nature—grams are more useful when
pasted on library cards and arranged alphabeti-
cally by subject. Make them work for you the year
round.

True to nature stories, books on science for the
layman, and books which embody the translation
of technical findings into language that was simple
but not childish were, within the memory of your
chief nature-gramer, as scarce as hen's teeth. To-
day it is not a question of finding new books to be
announced as a nature-gram——it is a question of
which ones to announce. If a fellow had money
enough, what a library on nature recreation he
could accumulate! Science hobbies alone would|
fill a twelve foot shelf. Trust that you are keep-
ing “tabs” on these announcements for your next
book order.

A Study of the Park and Recreation Problem

HIS VOLUME, prepared by the National Park

Service, represents a significant contribution

to park and recreation literature. To a large
extent it is based upon the findings in the Park,
Parkway, and Recreational—Area Study conducted
by the Service under authority of an act of Con-
gress. The introduction to the volume states: “Its
purpose is to present an over—all picture of recrea-
tional needs and of the methods by which it ap-
pears that public agencies must move to meet
them if they are to be met satisfactorily.”

The volume is roughly divided into two sec—
tions: one dealing with various aspects of park
and recreation planning, facilities, administration,
and related problems, and the other, with a record
of existing major park and recreation facilities in
each of the states. The entire volume merits care-
ful study by all who are concerned with or inter—
ested in parks and recreation. The following are a
few references to statements of unusual significance.

Following an interesting statement of recrea—
tional habits and needs of people, a number of
outdoor recreational trends are indicated with
special consideration to such activities as touring,
picnicking, water Sports, hunting and fishing, and
other activities primarily carried on out of doors.
An attempt is made to set down certain principles
that should be followed in meeting man’s needs
for recreation, yet it is recognized that “any stand-
ard yardstick on the acreage and number of areas
necessary is impossible. The great need is for
open public space in and near the urban centers.
These open spaces should bring the country into
and through the urban area in the form of wide
parkways, tying together a system of large open
areas.”

A study of land and water areas reveals inter-
esting data such as “from about fifty—live per cent
of the land the needs of the prospective population
of the United States for food, wearing apparel,
shelter and commodities for export, except
forest products, can be met for an indefinite per—
iod. . . . 'With only about six tenths of one per
cent of the total area now occupied by urban popu—
lations, it is unlikely that more than one per cent—
including the playgrounds, playiields, parks, and
parkways within urban limits, will ever be re-
quired for our cities.” In the consideration of
planning by regions, the conclusion is reached

‘ . of the
united States

This attractively illustrated and
informative report of approximately
300 pages should be in the library
of every park and.recreation worker

and official. Copies are obtainable
at $|.25 each from the Superintend-
ent of Documents. WashingtonI D. C.

“that the great bulk of the recreational require-
‘ments of its inhabitants, including all strictly day-
use recreation, must be met within it in spite of
the improved means of transportation and in-
creased leisure time.”

Although “the planning of recreational systems
and areas is not an exact science” and “there is no
standard pattern for such planning,” the following
major factors require consideration in it: “(1)
Recreational requirements for the population to be
served, by kind and quantity; (2) The kind and
quantity of land needed to meet those require-
ments; (3) The lands available and suitable for
the kinds of recreation to be supplied and not more
valuable for uses other than recreation.” Much
consideration is given in the report to practical
problems involved in the planning of park and
recreation areas.

Following a brief analysis of the present public
outdoor recreation facilities under various govern-
mental auspices, consideration is given to the vari—
ous factors involved in their administration. Exist-
ing policies of park authorities and practical sug-
gestions for more effective operation are given.
For example, in considering the problem of per-
sonnel it is suggested: “From a long range view—
point it appears desirable as a general practice to
make original selections of administrative and tech—
nical personnel for park and recreational work
from among the top ranking graduates of Ameri-
can educational institutions and to confine original

(Continued on page 112)
105

Do You Know How to Walk?

By JAMES H. HOCKING

Ixcr: \vxthxc is a
8 main activity of life, it

would seem that every-
one would learn to move cor-
rectly, whatever his size or
age. Just watch your step
now, and see if you do it cor-
rectly. '

In the January

To really walk, you must
use a heel and toe stride. The
heel should touch the ground first, then the ball
and the toes, to give the final spring to the foot.
The feet must point straight ahead, not to the
sides. The body should be carried erect, the arms
swinging naturally, the lips closed, and the lungs
taking the air through the nostrils.

Perhaps you have been coming down on the
balls of your feet with the toes pointing to the
sides. This is a common error and is responsible
for fallen arches and feet and hip trouble. Misfit
shoes, too tight laces, and poor fitting socks are
other faults that prevent smooth navigation over
Mother Earth—little things, but they all figure
in the total against walking.

\Valking, to the average man and woman, is
really one of the lost arts. They fail to realize the
miracle they are performing in lifting up their feet
and putting them down again, and they do not
appreciate the fact that throughout miles and hours
of travel, the body is supported on one leg at a
nme.

The muscles and nerves of the entire body are
stimulated. The sun shines on you—when it
shines anywhere—and you breathe and inhale an
extra volume of life—giving oxygen. Your heart
action is quickened and the blood is sent with
greater force to all parts of the body to nourish it,
while it also carries off with greater energy the
wastes of the tissues.

There is no better form of exercise for any
person than walking. You don’t need a caddy for
it, nor a tennis racket, nor a
bathing suit. It is the cheapest
and the best thing in the way of
natural tonic that God has pro—
vided. How many ills to which
our flesh is heir would vanish
like the morning mists, if we

106

I942 issue of Recreation
we published a note about Mr. Hocking
who. a few years ago. accompanied Dr.
Finley on his birthday walk around New
York City. and who celebrated his own
eighty-fifth birthday by taking a fifty-
five mile walk. In this issue Mr. Hock-
ing gives us some hints on how to walk.

The lost American art of walking
may be revived. it has been sug-
gested. it the rationing of auto-
mobile tires continues and it the
American people retain the health-
conscious attitude that has gained
such impetus the last year or so.

 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  

would walk several miles '
the open every day.

The consistent pedestr'
will score to his credit eve
week twenty miles of vigor
ous tramping. A thousal
miles a year makes an imm'e
sive showing; it goes far to
“slam the door on the doctor’s
nose.” No other recreation '
comparable to this. It is a pleasure to walk i
fair, mild weather; but there is also a pleasure
gray, cold, snowy days.

To exert the body; to put one's strength agains
the winds; to cause the sluggish blood to stream
warm against a nipping cold; to feel the sting 0‘
sleet on one’s face; to bring all one’s being t
hearty, healthful activity—by such means on
comes to the end, bringing to his refreshment,
satisfaction; to his repose, contentment.

Do you remember the story of the man who was
told that a certain rare herb that grew in the
woodlands surrounding his village had healing
virtue that would restore his health? He searched
every day for months and months, going farther
and farther afield each time. At the end of
many months the herb had not been discovered.
but the man found himself vigorous and perfect.
The virtue was not in the plant, but in the search,
which necessitated walking.

.I

Time was when five or six miles a day were a
mere jaunt to the post office, the general store, or
the next door neighbor’s, but many of us, in this
motorized age, have almost forgotten walking as a
pleasure and an adventure now that it is no longer
a necessity.

Explore your community and its environs on
foot and you will find many things to interest you
that you have probably never been aware of. In
planning your leisure hours, save some time for a
walk. Start walking for exer-
cise with open eyes and ears and
an expectant mood, and you will
soon find yourself walking for
the joy of it. A famous school
of philosophers had all of their

(Continued on page 114)

World at Play

Victory Gardens for
Cleveland, Ohio

PAUL R. YOUNG, School Garden
Supervisor, Board of Education,
Cleveland, Ohio, states that last
year over 17,000 children were
enrolled in the school-home gar-
den program. This is the eleventh
year for the home program in
Cleveland. The keynote of the
program is sounded in the state-
ment which appears in connection
with the printed announcement:
“Vegetable and flower gardening
has been recognized by our gov-
ernment as a desirable wartime activity. Let us all
do our part by joining the ‘Gardening for Vic-
tory’ movement.”

DONALD LOOK, a play-
ground boy of Ando-
ver, Massachusetts,
took the picture used
as this month’s frontispiece when he was about
sixteen years of age. The picture was taken under
the story tree at Central Playground where stories
are read or told every afternoon at three o’clock.
Even the leader did not know the picture was
being taken.

Photography Is Hobby
of Playground Boy

 

THE Cooperative
League of the United
States of America an-
nounces its seventh an-
nual National Cooperative Recreation School to
be held on the campus of Mission House College,
Plymouth, W'isconsin, June I 3 to 26, 1942. The
emphasis this year, as in previous years, will be on
those types of recreation in which everyone par-
ticipates—the kind of recreation which will help
build stronger social bonds. Instruction will be
given in social recreation leadership and play party
games will be stressed. There will also be courses
in group singing and instrumental music, in sim-
ple forms of dramatics, and in acting and direct-

National Cooperative
Recreation School

 

 

“Home By Midnight”

 

Courtesy Board of Education, Cleveland, Ohio

ing. Complete information regarding the School
may be secured from Miss Ellen Edwards, The
Cooperative League, 167 West 12th Street, New

York City.

THE Recreation Com-
mission of Long Beach,
California, is conduct-
ing two four-week
training courses on games, pastimes, stunts, and
frolics for members of the recreation staff and
their wives. The first four-week course, held on
Mondays from 7 :30 to 9:30, is to be followed by
a similar course for volunteer recreation workers
serving in municipal and school centers, churches,
and industrial establishments.

Training Courses in
Long Beach

THE Girls’rCabinet at
Heights High School,
Cleveland Heights,
Ohio, has a new club
known as “Cinderella’s Honie-by-Midnight Club.”
This club is an outgrowth of the present emer-
gency. Since gas, tires, and other essentials must
be conserved, the Girls’ Cabinet has decided on
this club as a means of encouraging students on
dates to be at home by twelve o’clock not only for
the conservation of war materials, but to promote
better health among the students.

Their Slogan

107

103 WORLD A T PLA I’

it
** **

1k DIAMOND’S *
PART in the WAR

About ninety per cent of our faciory's
output is for Army. Navy. and Air
Corps use. We are working 24 hours
a day. 7 days a week to help supply
tools for the war machine.

Such all-out effort is necessary in
spite of the sacrifices of civilian busi-
ness. We're in a war and we're in TO

WINI When that iob is done. it'll be
back to BUSINESS AS USUAL.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

   

it *
1k *

“Forests and People,” An Annual Report—
Under this title the Chief of the Forest Service,
United States Department of Agriculture, has
submitted his annual report for 1941. There is
much of interest to all citizens in this discussion of
the place of forests in the world crisis and the
contributions they have to make to economic and
social well-being. On June 30, 1941, the national
forests alone with their purchase units included
177,497,531 acres owned or in process of acqui-
sition by the federal government within forty-two
states and two territories. Included in the recrea-
tion facilities developed in forest areas are 2,300
camp grounds, 572 picnic areas, 1,381 combination
camp and picnic areas, 201 swimming areas, 254
winter sports areas, fifty-four organization camps,
and eleven resorts developed for the enjoyment
and convenience of the public.

“Games for Yanks"—This booklet represents
a very interesting project conducted by the Indus-
trial Arts Laboratories of the Chicago Public
Schools under the leadership of Dr. Louis V.
Newkirk. Pupils of the schools constructed games
of various kinds, a number of which have been
brought together in an attractive booklet entitled

“Games for Yanks" printed by the \Vashburne
Trade School of Chicago through the cooperation
of Philip L. McNamee, Assistant Superintendent
of Schools.

Directions for making and playing about fifteen
games, such as dart ball, table tennis and shuf’lle-
board, will be found in this booklet, which is de—
signed to be used in helping to provide recreation
for the armed forces. In reply to a question as to
how this booklet might be secured, Dr. New-kirk
writes: “The book is being presented free to
schools that may wish to make some recreational
equipment for use in the armed forces.” Since Dr.
Newkirk has written that he will be glad to have
it mentioned in RECREATION, we assume that re-
quests from recreation groups for a copy of the
booklet would be favorably considered.

Recreation Centers in Railroad Stations—
At the Union Station in St. Paul, Minnesota,
there is a Terminal Recreation Center operated
as a commercial enterprise which provides an
opportunity for travelers to bowl, to play ping
pong, cards, and to practice golf under pro-
fessional instruction. In addition to attracting
travelers who have free time between trains,
the center is attracting residents of St. Paul as
well. The center is located on the second floor
of the Union Station building and occupies an
area of about 24,000 square feet. There are a
soda fountain, a luncheon counter, lounge
room, and locker room for the convenience of
those using the center. A false ceiling helps to
absorb the noise in the room. According to in-
formation from St. Paul, the center is an at-
tractive place and the fees are nominal.

Visitors to New York who come through
Grand Central Station know of the moving
picture theater which caters there to those
with time between trains.

Totem Poles and Tepees
(Continued from page 99)_

summer. The city was divided into six sections and
2,000 children from each section were taken to the
Garden every Monday. At the Zoo they were en-
tertained by Susie, the famous gorilla, and two
performing chimpanzees. The rest of the day was
spent watching the other animals and riding on
the park concessions.

Before the summer was over more than 13,000
boys and girls in Ohio’s second city had shared in
Mr. \Villiams’ recreation programs.

 

l Ask for  Capy..

  
    

Tells you how to overcome annoying

dust conditions quickly, economically!

HY permit severe dust conditions to ruin

the usefulness of your playground or recre-
ational area? Dust is not only a costly nuisance, but
a definite menace to health. Your dust problem can
be overcome quickly and effectively with GULF
SANI-SOIL-SET, the modern, proven agent for
controlling dust.

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET is a product now used
extensively by many large municipalities, schools
and parks throughout the country. It has been
found an invaluable aid in keeping dust down and

 

  
  

L

 

 

NEW

GULF SANI-SOlL-SET
BOOKLET—JUST OFF
THE PRESS!

 

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Please send me. without obligation, a copy of the new

bookletf‘Gulf Sani-Soil-Set -- the modern proven agent for
controlling dust.”

Name

Title

improving the surface. It is a light-colored, odor-
less, non-scaining liquid of petroleum base; non-
toxic to skin abrasions and has definite germicidal
properties.-

Fill out the coupon above and mail it today.
The complete Story of GULF SANI-SOIL-SET,
what it does and how it does it, is presented
clearly and concisely in this attractive new booklet.
In addition there are photographs showing repre-
sentative grounds treated, and statements from
satisfied users.

ANP SOIL- SET

J

 

110 OUR NEIGHBORS TO THE SOUTH

Boohs ofLastz'tngalue

The Dictionary of Philosophy
Edited by DAGOBERT D. RUNES $6.00

An invaluable reference book for the student of
human cultural development, embracing all major
schools and theories of philosophy, philosophy of law,
religious philosophy, logic, epistemology, ethics,
metaphysics, Chinese, Jewish and Hindu philosophy.

Sociology of Law
By GEORGES GURVITCH $3.75

With 6 Preface by Roscoe Pound

The first complete study of the problems of the
sociology of law in all its aspects.

Theism and Cosmology

By JOHN LAIRD $3.50

The Gifford Lectures given by the eminent British
philosopher.

From Copernicus to Einstein

By HANS REICHENBACH $2.00

A simple but scientific history of the ideas and dis-
coveries that have led to the formulation of the
theory of relativity.

God Is My Fuehrer

By Pastor MARTIN NIEMOELLER $2.75

Being his last 28 sermons. With a preface by Thomas
Mann.

PHILOSOPHICAL LIBRARY
l5 East 40th Street New York, N. Y.

 

Summit’s Trailer Theater
(Continued from page 78)
painted the theater with the help of some of the
older boys from the playgrounds. The Hoar is gray
and the walls white. Over the archway topsy-
turvy letters announce that this is a Children’s
Theater. Circus figures cavort along the sides of
the arch and two fiery-breathed dragons watch
over the little playhouse from the portable wings.

A discarded curtain from one of the Chatham
Township schools was redesigned into a stage
curtain and draperies for the exits. Fortunately
the curtains blended with the color scheme of the
theater decorations.

The next problem for the dramatics department
was transportation. The tractor which ordinarily
pulls the grass mowing machine was borrowed for
the purpose and hitched to the theater with a
trailer hitch and bumper connection. Liability in-
surance has been taken out to protect the Board
of Commissioners while the theater is in use on
the playgrounds or on the road.

Every dramatics group is asked to provide the

 

cast for one play during the summer and the then
ter travels to each of the playgrounds in turn ac
cording to a prearranged schedule.

The cost of constructing the Children’s Theate
was comparatively small, since the maintenan
department personnel, playground workers an‘
children provided the labor. Summit’s recreatio:
commissioners consider the $73.69 spent foi' ma
terials a good long-term investment, since youn
playground Thespians will be playing their part
on this trailer stage for many years to come.

Our Neighbors to the South

(Continued from page 88)

Third Feature: BRAZIL
Dance: “Zomba.”
Game: “Pass the Rattle.”

Fourth Feature: CUBA AND HAITI
Dance: “La Conga.”
Game: “Balloon Juggling.”
Fifth Feature: HAWAII
Dance: “Aloha.”
Song: “Yoki-Hula Hoki-Doola.”
S ixth Feature: MEXICO
Song: “Fiesta.”
Dance: “Mexican Regional.”
Seventh Feature: PERU
Dance: “Inca.”
Specialty: “Street Players and Vendors.”
Eighth Feature: Procession of other countries in
characteristic specialties.
PART Two—-The United States
SECOND EPISODE: Typical American Folk Games,
Dances and Songs.
First Feature: Dance: “Jitterbugs.”
Second Feature: Dance: “Virginia Reel.”
Third Feature: Dance: “Majorcttes.”
Fourth Feature: Dance: “Break-Down.”
Fifth Feature: Song and Dance: “Little Log
Cabin in the Lane.”
Sixth Feature: Song and March: “There Are
Many Flags.”
Seventh Feature: Song: “I Am An American.”
Dance: “Cowboy Fling.”
Song and Pantomime: “Cowgirl’s Dream.”
Finale: ENTIRE CAST
“Grouping of the Flags.”
Exit March: Medley of national airs.

"Keep in Tune with the Times"
(Continued from page 72)
important place in the summer playground pro-

gram. A special mimeographed bulletin of patri-

DAD’S DAY ON THE PLAYGROUND 111

otic songs could be placed in the hands of each
leader who in turn would teach the songs to the
lchildren. Let’s Sing the Same Songs, prepared by
the National Recreation Association, presents
good songs to know while waiting for the “all clear.”
A volunteer song leaders’ institute will provide
the necessary leaders for community singing, which
was so popular during World War I. If your
city has summer band concerts, by all means stimu-
late interest in community singing.

Nature and breakfast hikes, victory gardens and
the use of slogans on playground bulletin boards
are other potential means of keeping your pro—
gram in tune with the times. The slogans on the
bulletin boards might deal with such subjects as
conservation, nutrition, health, morale, safety, first
aid. Slogans could be changed each week. It is a
good idea to have a \Var Bond Savings Slogan
Contest among the children on the playgrounds.
Examples of slogans are “Bonds or Bondage—\Ve
Can Have Our Choice,” “Liberally Buy So Less
May Die,” “Democracy Deserves Saving.” De-
fense stamps might be awarded as prizes.

\V here neighborhood associations, mothers’
clubs, or parent-teacher associations exist and are
interested in the playgrounds, why not give them
some responsibility for service towards the war
effort? The local Civilian Defense Council could
count upon them to salvage waste materials which
in turn would be sold and the profits used by the
neighborhood playground association for equip-
ment. Scrap metal, old rubber, paper, cardboard,
rags and bones are in great demand by Uncle Sam.
The Junior Red Cross would welcome the assist-
ance of neighborhood groups and children in mak-
ing things for military hospitals.

Dad's Day on the Playground
(Continued from page 96)

3:30 RECREATION GAMES
Cub ping-pong tournament
Midget horseshoe tournament
(Cubs and Midgets change on completion of
tournament)
4:00 SLow PITCH BALL GAME
North side dads vs. south side dads
4:30 MIXED VOLLEYBALL
North side champions vs. south side champions

The bicycle races were conducted by a wheels-
man club. They were held on a one-half mile
track which encircled the park. The track was
narrow, therefore only three could enter the track
abreast, and the only way of determining the win-
ners was by the time element. Four judges with
stop watches were stationed at four different spots

 

é .

.  Go_lg.sm_ith 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT '

 For Playground and a
‘ Recreational Departments 

i  .5 Complete Line of
‘ .—"' Equipment for all Sports

4*:

k”.
3, I fr, 21‘ , M» "a
 0’ iii

I

’WA—r '_ -,;:\,.._x-:u‘e»- "'0‘" *"
.-.- wits-5 A ‘  r

"X i’ f“

t g .-‘. ‘C I

l' I c , ._

I“ / V  In - V,‘
a

 ’2 " a ‘*
 1"; - ‘2;

’ THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, lnic.
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., ClNClNNAll, OHIO

on the track, and the starter was located in the
middle of the field. The starter gave the prepara-
tory command by raising his arm and lowering it,
and the judges relayed the command to the racers;
then he fired the starting gun. The racer who
turned in the best time was the winner. If there
were only eight riders, the two riders with the
best time were pitted against each other. As noted
in the schedule of activities, the age classification
of the softball leagues was used in the racing
events, with the addition of a senior division for
men twenty-one years and over.

The mixed volleyball game between two sec-
tional mixed volleyball leaders was staged to at-
tract the older boys and girls, and this activity
proved to be quite interesting. Other methods
used to draw more boys and their fathers were the
table tennis and horseshoe tournaments for the
cubs and midgets.

The highlight of the Dad’s Day was the slow—
pitch ball game between the dads of the south side
and the dads of the north side. This game, a big
factOr in the success of the celebration, helped make
a day which the fathers won’t soon forget, for it
made them feel a part of the program and not
merely spectators.

112 ELLA GARDNER

"Hands Up"

0 Here is a novel booklet prepared for
the National Recreation Association

by Marguerite lckis which will serve

many purposes. For quiet hours on the

playground: in case of air raids: for
children in institutions: for boys and
girls everywhere—this booklet will
prove helpful and popular. It will. too.

have an irresistible appeal for adults!

There are three general subdivisions:
Hand Games: Hand Tricks: and Fin-
ger Plays—all attractively illustrated.

. . . . Price $.35

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 Fourth Avenue New York City

When Schools Close for the Summer
(Continued from page 70)

America,” sung on the microphone with the chil-
dren joining in the chorus. As the finale, in which
the entire group participated in forty-two circles
with thirty—two in a group, came the “Stars and
Stripes Forever” by John Philip Sousa.

A Study of the Park and Recreation

Problem of the United States
(Continued from page 105)

selection to the lower. grade positions of the par-
ticular service or class. Such a procedure, if
coupled with wide latitude for advancement and
assurance. of continuity of employment, will tend
to eliminate from an increasingly specialized field
those who either have already failed at some other
profession or who lack the ability and energy to
make a place for themselves in any field.”

I n discussing the subject of fees and charges the
report states: “It is well to recognize that no park
system has ever been made self-supporting through
a system of fees and charges and a determined
effort in this direction inevitably will restrict the
service of the park agency and diminish the public
benefits which accrue from it. . . . In the essential

 

Ella Gardner

ma xnws OF ELLA GARDNER’S sudden death on
TMarch 29th at her home in W ashington camel
as a great shock to her many friends in the recre-
ation movement. No one who knew her even
slightly can ever forget that radiant personality, 4
the sense of joy of living which she seemed to
personify.

There was never a time when Ella Gardner was
not interested in recreation. Three years before
entering college she planned and directed Sunday
school plays and parties, and as a young girl in
school, tennis, basketball, and swimming were
among her favorite sports. She became a play-
ground worker on the Washington playgrounds in
1913, serving as a playground director for two
years and for three years as director of girls’ ac-
tivities. Her college courses at George \Vashing-
ton University and later at Columbia University
were planned to give her additional training for
her chosen field of work, and after serving a few
months as Special agent in the Department of
Labor she became superintendent of recreation at
Altoona, Pennsylvania, later at Asbury Park, New
Jersey, leaving this city to become director of rec-
reation at Fairmont, \Vest Virginia.

In 1925 Miss Gardner became recreation spe-
cialist in the United States Children’s Bureau; for
the past few years she served in a similar capacity
in the Extension Service of the Department of
Agriculture. Service to rural people became her
consuming interest. In institutions and training
courses and through her advisory service, but most
of all through her own personality, she influenced
thousands of rural leaders.

Through these leaders and others whose lives
she touched, Ella Gardner’s capacity .for joyous

living and service will continue in ever-widening
circles. °

ah
functions of Government, however, the primary
consideration is public service; and financial re-
turns must be considered subordinate to the pur-
poses for which any particular agency is estab-
lished. Since provision of opportunity for recrea-
tion is an essential function of Government, poli-

cies and practices should be determined accord-
ingly.”

 

Joseph Lee Junior Leaders
( Continued from page 80)

vacation trip. There are limits on the amount of
responsibility young people can carry and they

 

JOSEPH LEE JUNIOR LEADERS 113

may well have no experience or skill in organizing
groups.

Among the qualifications which should be kept
in mind in selecting Joseph Lee Junior Leaders
are interest, initiative, a pleasing personality, abil-
ity to command respect of others, and certainly
dependability. Willingness to devote a certain
minimum number of hours each week should be
one of the qualifications for selection. The junior
leader should also know a good deal about arts and
crafts or games or nature or storytelling if he is to
help with one of these activity groups. If the
junior leader is to do more of maintenance and
clerical work than actual leadership work, some of
the qualifications suggested are obviously of less
importance than others.

A training institute for Joseph Lee Junior Lead-
ers would help them a great deal in preparing for
service, just as such an institute has been found
valuable for senior staff workers. In addition to
activity subjects, the institute should include ses-
sions devoted to department or playground policies
and traditions, and time should be given to con-
sidering the handling of problem situations which
may arise. A training institute would give real
meaning to being Joseph Lee Junior Leaders.

Joseph Lee Junior Leaders should have a but-
ton, a badge, a ribbon or perhaps an armband so
that they will be recognized. The wearing of such
a symbol will also help the junior leader to re-
member his responsibility. There may be an ad-
vantage in encouraging these junior leaders to
have an organization of their own and to have
meetings where they can discuss situations which
arise.

Joseph Lee Day activities each summer could
feature the Joseph Lee Junior Leaders. On that
day appreciation could be expressed in some fitting
way for the service which these boys and girls are
giving in memory of Joseph Lee. Joseph Lee
Junior Leaders could themselves on that day or-
ganize a Special tribute of their own to Joseph Lee.

Each playground director will need to give some
time to the Joseph Lee Junior Leaders on his play-
ground. In a city with a large number of play-
grounds, it may be advisable to assign some staff
member to give all of his time to working with
the junior leaders to make their service most ef-
fective. Joseph Lee Junior Leaders under proper
leadership, however, can free paid leaders so
that they can start new activity groups, or give
more time to program planning or do more of the
many things they could not otherwise do. One of
the most effective services junior leaders can per-

l/ 3M"
. RM ATHLETIC
Em%é)mrcww'

EQUIPMENT

Mid I!) W. I. Inn Runner com. 1600 I? 25:11 St. [05 Ingeles. tam.
Branch' 180 N. Wacker in china: Ill.

 

form is holding together and helping an activity
group started by a paid leader while that leader
starts another activity. Playground directors know
only too well how much it means to have a great
many activities available to children 011 play-
grounds.

Service as a Joseph Lee Junior Leader pro-
vides a young person with unusual opportunities
for developing qualities of leadership and for di-
recting these qualities into proper channels.
Whether or not these young people eventually de-
velop into professional leaders, former Joseph Lee
Junior Leaders are certain to appreciate more
deeply what Joseph Lee did during his lifetime
for the recreation movement in the United States,
and they cannot help becoming enthusiastic sup-
porters of their local recreation program.

 

 

    

arm-man.

OFFER THE LASTING ECONOMY
OF A FIRST QUALITY PRODUCT . . .

 

0 Universal quality bleachers, even if
neglected, have a long useful life.
However to secure the maximum in
service we recommend adequate care.
Look your bleachers over today; we
can supply any needed replacement
from stock; then give all parts a coat
of paint or varnish.

The Universal line includes: Wood and
Steel portables; Grandstands; and Steel
folding gymnasium stands.

For long term planning, Universal Wood
Portables purchased now may be trad-
ed-in on our Steel Portable or Folding

bleachers later.

UNIVERSAL BLEACHER CO.

CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS

 

GET THESE
HELPFUL BULLETINS

DU lUl A.\ UN" HUH' T0 WALK?

1H

 

Copyright I ‘Alu. Rx. y n fypowriter Company. “In

Engine of war!

\Vherever men and women work in war
industries, wherever soldiers and sailors

IL, of the [{0} al Typewriter Com-
pany, are proud to be engaged in

the manufacture of an engine of war.

The part the typewriter is playing in
hnerica’s war with the axis powers is a

go to fight, the typewriter must go with
them. That is why the Royal Typewriter
Company is proud to be called upon to

help prOVide the United States Govern-
ment with the typewriters needed by an
America at war.

vital one, for speed and more speed is the
very essence of our armament program.

Every day millions of flying fingers
uiust type instructions, specifications,
orders, and reorders before a bolt can go
into a tank, a riyet can go into a battle-
ship. or a rib can go into a plane.

liven on the field of battle, the type-
writer must help correlate the fast-mov-
ing action. The typewriter is with our
fleet at sea, for each aircraft carrier, each
battleship, cruiser, destroyer, and sub-
marine . . . each unit of our Navy, down
to the little n:o.-quito hoats, has type-
writers ull hoard.

 

ll0l’r\I. (7/2}%/2J%7 TYPE‘VBITEIR

--—_ _
- ——-—.._
‘77 *

 

_ —_—1r —— vw—

Do You Know How to Walk?

“’3 grinned from paqe 106,

the philosuplmal attitude Hourished while walk-
ing. ()ne of our well-loved Americans—George
M. Cohan prescribes a walk to banish dejection1
and despair. “You never heard of anyone,” he
said, “doing away with himself after a long walk.”

1w r : a" s “l ‘l’lilt: walking and thus came to be called
'lw ].Pr.])£;.'.f11(% " It 15 easy to understand how

LOS ANGELES OPENS AN ARTS AND CRAFTS CENTER 115

Los Angeles Opens an Arts
and Crafts Center

HE Los ANGELEs, CALIFORNIA, Playground and

Recreation Department has opened a hobby
arts and crafts institute in what was formerly the
Barnsdall Playground Community Building. Here
children and adults may join free classes in fine
arts, metal tooling, leather work, weaving, jewelry
making, furniture building or remodeling, wood-
working, and many other handcrafts. Volunteer
instructors from the art departments of the Uni-
versity of Southern California and the University
of California at Los Angeles help in conducting
the classes, which are open every weekday for
adults. with morning and afternoon groups for
housewives and others with daytime leisure, and
‘_ evening instruction for men and women busy dur—
ing the day. Children’s classes are held 011 Sat—
urday.

For more than twelve years the handcraft
workshop has been housed in two small rooms of
a very busy community center which has not been
adequate for the demands made upon them. With
the redecorating and reconditioning of the Barns-
dall center, Los Angeles will have a dignified and
attractive setting for its arts and crafts program.
There is now a separate room for metal crafts, as
well as ample space for pottery, clay modeling,
sculpturing, woodcraft, and wood carving. A
large room which can accommodate many easels
is used for painting, and a number of the classes
are held outdoors. A special room has been desig—
nated for miscellaneous crafts, and opportunities

are provided for designing and creating stage
settings.

A Circus 'and Variety Show

for Painesville
(Continued from page 71)

Of dourse we needed lumber, and this we found
at a city warehouse where boards had been stored
from an old building which had been torn down.

There was the important problem of creating
the right atmosphere. A VVPA worker assigned to
the Recreation Department tackled this. Securing
some muslin which he starched to give it body,
he painted a “near professional” scene in a huge
frame. Children from the playground went en—
thusiastically to work filling in the outlines which
he had drawn.

The making of animals required the combined

FIRST/Mm

-ar/'e sfi'ony
lye/t

«lawn/Ire):

Tomorrow's Americans will be better citi-
zens for having participated in Sports—
stronger in mind and body.

  
 
    
 
   
 
 
   

Good Equipment Makes
Organized Play More Valuable

It pays to play with good equipment.
Louisville Slugger bats for baseball
and softball are standard wherever
these great American games are
played. There's no finer bat made
which is attested by the fact that
the champion sluggers in baseball

since |884 have used and in-
dorsed them.

If you do not have our I942
catalog showing the complete
line of Louisville Slugger base-
ball and softball bats. write us
for a copy. It will be sent you
without obligation. Please

address Dept. R.

Hillerich & Bradshy 80., Inc.
Louisville, Kentucky

 

 

 

LOUISVILLE
SLUGGER BATS

116 A PLAYGROUND CIRCUS IN IVILMETTE

efforts of three of the Recreation Department staff
and of many of the children who spent hours
working at the American Legion Auxiliary build-
ing which the Legion gave the Department as a
center.

The problem of the skunk was one which might
have presented difficulties. \Vould anyone be will-
ing to take the part of this unpopular animal? But
when the call for volunteers went out we were
swamped with applicants!

How were we to light the stage? A resident
whose great hobby is stage lighting volunteered his
services and spent many hours preparing for the
program.

And finally came the biggest problem of all.
On the day of the circus a number of mothers be-
came so worried over the infantile paralysis scare
that some of the performers were withdrawn. Sev-
eral members of the Department spent a busy morn-
ing securing and training new performers, but the
shown went on!

The Program

The show opened with a parade of the Recrea-
tion Department’s drum and bugle corps in their
brilliant uniforms. Then came the circus band, a
unit from the high school organization. Follow-
ing were the animals. The one real live animal,
the McCollister pony, drew a round of applause
as it trotted along pulling its homemade chariot.

First on the program came the clown tumblers,
an entertaining group which kept the crowd roar-
ing. Next came two tumbling acts by girls, fol-
lowed by the elephant act which went splendidly
until the elephants started to leave the stage, when
one of the keepers forgot to take his charge with
him. Susie, the lone elephant, stood first on one
foot and then on the other while the keepers and
the head man argued backstage about who was to
go back and get her. Finally one of the clowns led
the elephant off stage. This unplanned stunt was
thought by many to be one of the funniest acts of
the circus program.

The hull fight was “tops” for laughs, for Fer-
dinand was whirled around so many times that he
finally collapsed from dizziness!

Then Came the Variety Show
\Vhen the circus acts were over the lights went
off, a curtain of green cheesecloth descended over
the circus back drop, and the staff set to work
arranging lights and a setting for a garden scene
in which the “Collegians” staged their variety
show.

 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  

Plans are already under way for next year’
performance in which the circus will be the mai
feature.

A Playground Circus in Wilmettr

(Continued from page 71)
performance was given by playground childret

assisted by the staff and several high school boy
who acted as clowns and barkers.

The Side Show

The side show was situated so that most spec
tators had to pass it in order to reach the “b'
tent” where the main show was held. A five cen
admission charge to the side show, together wit
the profits from the concession stand, helped de
fray expenses.

The side show attracted large crowds as tl
barker, a staff member, glowineg described the
miracles going on inside the enclosure. The out-
side of the tent was bedecked with gaily colored
posters advertising the “freaks” inside. Hunky
Dora, the fattest woman in the world, was there
to greet the crowd. Madam DePython, the snake
charmer from the Orient, thrilled everyone with
her daring act. The bodyless woman was treated
royally as spectators treated her to p0p, ice cream,
and candy. The Wild Man’s performance brought
about much laughter and seemed to be the high-
light of the side show attractions. The Bearded
Lady and the Strong Man attracted much attention.

Another great attraction in the side show was
the marvelous museum comprising the January
ground hog, a piece of pork sausage; the swim-
ming match; a match floating in a bowl of water;
the grave diggers, a pick and a shovel; the red
bats from Australia, two red bricks; the monkey
cage, a large mirror refiecting the spectator's own
image; the barking dog, a frankfurter. There were
additional articles of interest in the museum.

'

The Performance

The main circus performance began with a
grand march around the center ring, followed by
the performing ponies given by a group of the
playground’s youngest children. A tightrope walk-
ing act, a bouncing tumbling comedy, and hippo-
(lrome races were some other numbers in the main
show. The climax of the circus was the Wild West
show in which a battle between the settlers and
the Indians ensued with the western boys coming

to the rescue.
Thus ended another \N'ilmette playground-made

circus.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 117

A Victory Sing

N \NASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY, the Recreation
Department of Austin, Texas, the College of
Fine Arts of the University of Texas, the PTA,
City Federation of W omen’s Clubs, the Chamber
of Commerce, civic clubs and churches of the city
united in a Victory Sing conducted by Augustus
D. Zanzig. In connection with the sing, the order
given by George Washington to his army was
spoken over a microphone behind the scenes as a
picture of George Washington was projected on a
screen on a wall beside the stage. The order which
Washington issued on July 2, I776, in expecta-
tion of a severe attack on the American forces was
as follows :

“The time is now near at hand «which must
probably determine whether Americans are to be
Freemen or Slaves, whether they are to have any
property they can call their own, whether their
Houses and Farms are to be pillaged and de-
stroyed, and they consigned to a state of wretch-
edness from which no human efforts will probably
deliver them. The fate of unknown millions will
now depend, under God, on the Courage and Con-
duct of this Army. Our cruel and unrelenting
Enemy leaves us no choice but a brave resistance,
or the most Abject Submission; this is all we can
expect—we have therefore to resolve to conquer
or die. Our own Country’s honor, All call upon
us for a vigorous and manly exertion, and if we
now shamefully fail, we shall become infamous to
the whole world. Let us therefore rely upon the
goodness of the cause, and the Aid of the Supreme
Being, in whose hands Victory is, to animate and
encourage us to great and noble Actions.”

King Arthur Rides Again

(Continued from page 82)

ally a “Palace of Glass.” Around the kitchen and
dining hall, too, hung the aura of adventure. The
dining hall-—the “Firmament”-—~—was decorated
with many—colored stars. The “Morning Star”
was the kitchen where the first of the day’s ac-
tivities began. And it’s there that the queens pre-
pared the daily meals. (Queens that are really
queenly, you see, are servants of their people.)
The effect of being served by a queen was so
startling to a little colored girl that she claimed
that she fully expected to eat like a king! It took
the children themselves to add the final touch to
the lirmament area. The dish washing machine

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 1

 

MAGAZIN ES

Camping Magazine, March 1942
“Planning for Sunday” by Mary Margaret French.
Programs for Sunday camp services
“Rooting the Camp in the Country” by Adria Gal-
braith. No policy of isolation for summer camps

Camping World, February—March 1942

“The Defense of the American Way of Life” by Ira
S. Wile, M.D. Democracy in camping

Childhood Education, March 1942

“We, Too, Like to Play” by Jeanne H. Barnes.
Recreation for children in institutions

Garden Digest, March 1942

“Practical Vegetable Gardening for the Amateur” by

James S. Jack. Reprinted from the New York
Botanical Garden Journal

Journal of Health and Physical Education, March 1942
“Come to the Mardi Gras” by Helen Fahey. Plans
for a playday
“Recreation and Wartime Morale” by Earl Min-
derman

Journal of Physical Education, March-April 1942
“Blueprint for a Physical Fitness Week” -by J. Wes
McVicar
“The Polio Swimming Club” by Claude A. Neavles.
A club for infantile paralysis victims

The Nation’s Schools, March 1942
“Community School at Glencoe” by John McFadzean

Parks and Recreation, March 1942

“Hard Surfaced Tennis Courts in the South” by
R. S. Marshall

“Recreation and Wartime Morale”

“Regarding Taxes on Recreation Charges.” The
Treasury Department clarifies the question of taxes
on admission charges to park and recreation ac-
tivities

“Wyoming’s State-Sponsored System of Municipal

Recreation Parks” by Harold L. Curtiss. WPA
recreation for men in service and defense workers

Safety Education, March 1942
“Physical Education and Safety” by Tom Ausbury.
Secondary School lesson outline and bibliography
“Playground Patriots.” Wartime safety for outdoor
play
PAMPHLETS

Fire Protection in Civilian Defense

U. S. Ofiice of Civilian Defense, Washington, D. C.

Hometown Games and Crafts
Division of Community Service Programs, Work
Projects Administration, 1206 South Santee Street,

Los Angeles, California

Outline for the Making of Sta]? Meetings Effectige by
Monte Melamed _
Grand Street Settlement, New York, price $.10

A War Policy for American Schools. Educational Policies

Commission Publication _ _ _
National Education Assoc1ation of the United States,

Washington, D. C., price $.10

Women’s Education in a World at War: Ends and Adam

by Rosalind Cassidy . _ T
Reprinted from Progresswe Education, hovember

1941

118 HEALTH CLUBS 0N CLEVELAND’S PLAYGROUNDS

became the “Big Dipper,” and the path in front,
where the afternoon milk was served, the “Milky
,\\'ay.”

6 A Theme for Each Day

Each meal was preceded by grace and prayers.
During each morning period before the first meal,
a short time was used in presenting the story of
the Liturgical Day. A tale couched in the lan-
guage of the children was presented by one of the
counselors, and the story of that day’s Saint
brought out. From this was taken a theme that
could readily be woven into the theme for the
whole period of camp, and yet have a special sort
of emphasis to that particular day. Often the ef-
fects of such a morning start were rather startling.

Take for example, “Adventurous Day.” The
life of St. Henry was presented in the light of the
many unexpected adventures that came to him
and how he learned to accept and profit by these
new experiences. In relating his life to those of
the campers, each girl attempted to accomplish one
experience that had never been hers before. Those
who had never been in the deep end of the pool
conquered their fear to the extent of an excursion
to that terrifying place, albeit with the watchful
guidance of the lifeguard. Again, and really quite an
adventure for one hundred little girls, silence was
kept by all during the noon meal. (It might be
hard to evaluate who profited most by this, the
counselors or the children.)

As the camp proceeded, each day bore its title.
“\Vomanly Day,” “Happy Day,” “Day of Abund-
ance,” “Day of F reedom,” and many others. All
made their mark on the minds and hearts of these
children.

We make no claim that such an integrating theme
is the best method for running such a camp. It does
seem to have the value, however, of doing away
with a point system. Each child becomes a part
of a general plan, enthused by the part she plays
in the story. The drama moves through each
phase of her life, and becames a part of her. The
lessons that she learns come naturally to her as a
part of her daily life at camp; the examples con-
stantly before her are accepted as part of the play.
There is no necessity for making awards for
achievement at the end of camp. Rather, each child
has been offered an Opportunity to make a contri-
bution to the general welfare. And the contribu-
tion has been made by a Lady of the Court—and
that makes a difference.

The importance of such training can beg be

    
  
  
   
   
  

appreciated when some consideration is given to
the background of the majority of the girls. Most
of them are from homes where there is for to
much worry over the actualities of living to bother
a great deal with the niceties of life. When t
objectives of a camp experience are set down as
attempts to help children to better fit into their
everyday existence this method of dramatizing
has much to offer. \Vith more experience and
with an expansion of such camping experiences,
more may be learned about methods of deve10ping
such programs and a greater number of girls me
have the opportunity to see something of the
beautiful in life.

Health Clubs on Cleveland’s

Playgrounds

(Continued from page 98)
a. All the time

b. In the day but not at night

c. At night but not during the day
d. Especially in summer

9. When we begin to get a headache

2. The safest place to play is

a. Along a railroad track

I). In a busy street

c. On a playground

0’. Where men are building things
9. On a bridge

Such questions as these furnished the bases for
discussion at many meetings. Later the same test
was given again to see how much the children
could improve their first scores. During the last
week when the champions were being selected, a
more difficult test was given.

\thile the health club is not the most popular
activity on the playgrounds, we feel that it is one
of the better programs. The Cleveland District
Dairy Council, educational branch of the local
dairy industry, cooperated wholeheartedly with the
playground supervisors. Awards were kept to a
minimum and printed materials not only empha-
sized the importance of milk and dairy products
but also discussed all phases of health. All printed
materials were submitted for approval to supervis-
ors before they were finally set up and many times
contained information suggested or prepared by
the supervisors. The Council furnished buttons
and printed forms and paid the expenses of the
champions’ trips to the County Fair.

Plans for 1942 call for a printed booklet for the
children to take into their homes. Games to play
at home will be included with health and fitness
Suggestions for the family.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Invitation to Dance

By Walter Terry. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.00.

HE FUNCTIONS of the American dance in the theater,

in education, and in recreation are discussed in this
book which outlines the sources of dance, the influence
of other nations on American dance, and the reasons for
the current and growing pOpularity of dancing. Dancing
techniques are described in non-technical terms, and the
story of dancing in this country is told through the lead-
ing exponents of the dance itself. In presenting the field
of dancing the author tells about it as an activity that is
fun for all to do and stimulating for all to watch. This

approach to the subject adds greatly to the value of the
book. '

The Way of the Storyteller

By Ruth Sawyer. The Viking Press, New York. $2.50.
THIS DELIGHTFUL BOOK is in reality the story of Ruth
Sawyer as a storyteller, and it is human and interest-
ing. The information it conveys to the reader—and the
volume is full of practical suggestions—is presented
against a background of rich experience and philosophy.
The latter part of the 'book contains a charming group

of eleven stories, each with a little introduction by the
author.

Woodworking for Fun

Armand J. LaBerge. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria,
Illinois. $2.25.

'I‘TRACTIVE THINGS which can be made with simple

tools and inexpensive materials are described here

in terms which the young woodworker can readily under-

stand, and he will enjoy the way in which the book is

written. There are many illustrations accompanied by
clear, detailed instructions.

Youth and the Future

The General Report of the American Youth Commission.
American Council on Education, Washington, D. C.

$2.50.

THE FACT that the United States has actively entered

the war makes more timely and urgent than ever
many of the suggestions in this book which rounds out
the formulation of the American Youth Commission’s
recommendations in regard to youth. The report offers
specific recommendations for dealing with the complex
of economic, educational, and social problems that will
confront American youth in the years to come. The plans
for action presented in the report embrace such fields
as employment opportunity; youth work programs; edu-
cation; leisure time; marriage and the home; health:
delinquency; and citizenship.

The American Book of the Woods

By David S. Marx. The Botanic Publishing Company,
Cincinnati, Ohio. $2.00.

THIS FASCINATING BOOK presents prints and uses of 256

trees, shrubs, herbs, and vines. The illustrations, which
are life size with every detail showing, will immediately
catch and hold the attention of the reader, and the method
Of presenting the uses of the trees and plants shown makes

the material usable and valuable to nature leaders and
camp counselors.

50 Metal-Spinning Projects

By James E. Reagan and Earl E. Smith. The Bruce
Publishing Company, Milwaukee. $1.75.

HIS BOOK is intended for use in connection with M eta!

Spinning, by Reagan and Smith, which contains de-
tailed information on the spinnng process. The projects
described and illustrated are varied enough to suit the
taste and experience of both the beginner and the skilled
spinner. Additional variety has been given by the use
of different metals, and there are projects of COpper,
brass, pewter, aluminum, and Garalloy. Information is
given on the decoration of many of the articles with
plastics—the new material which is gaining such popu-
larity in the industrial world. One full chapter has been
devoted to this subject.

The Model Aircraft Handbook

By William Winter. Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New
York. $2.00.

HOUGH THIS BOOK contains more than one hundred

drawings, it is not merely a collection of plans with a
few instructions, for Mr. Winter tells in detail how to
do the things which stump most builders and how to do
well all the procedures described. He covers each pro-
cedure point by point and tells why certain things should
be done. The appendix contains a series of three-view
plans of famous models.

Health in Schools

Twentieth Yearbook. American Association of School
Administrators, 1201 Sixteenth Street, I\orthwest,

Washington, D. C. $2.00.
IN ITS CONSIDERATION of health for school children, the

Commission on Health in Schools has stressed the
importance Of recreation in a chapter entitled “Health
Aspects of Physical Education and Recreation.” “Per-
haps presentday educational interest in recreation,” states
the chapter, “is due to an increased recognition of the
responsibility of education to equip pupils with interests,
attitudes, and skills useful in living as contrasted with
making a living.”

119

120 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Rhythmic Swimming.

By Katharine “'hitney Curtis, B.S., MA. Burgess
Publishing Company, 426 South Sixth Street, Minne-
apolis, Minnesota. $2.25.

Many books, Miss Curtis points out, have been written
on methods and techniques of teaching swimming. but
there is need for a source book of material adaptable for
use in a swimming program which will serve those
interested in the grace and rhythm of swimming. All of
the material in this book has been tried out and de-
veloped during twenty years of experience in a wide
variety of programs which ranged from informal meets
and splash parties to elaborate pageants. There are stunts,
routines, races and games, and five. completed water
pageants. There is also a wealth of material on suggested
water pageant plots. One section is devoted to sea
mythology.

The Photographer’s Rule Book.

By Larry June. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $l.25.

This book is designed for the use of pe0ple who enjoy
having a pictorial record of their lives and doings from
the cradle on. Its purpose is to tell you how to obtain
better pictures with the camera you have—and it may be
a very inexpensive one—rather than to offer a technical
exposition of the means and methods of photography.
The attractive illustrations in the book were all made
with inexpensive cameras under everyday conditions.

Tennis.

By Helen Hull Jacobs. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.00.

Miss Jacobs, one of our most popular tennis champions,
has given us a clearly written and concise book on win-
ning tennis. In it she analyzes the game on the basis of
her own experience and sets up basic standards to follow.
The book will be equally useful to the beginner or the
accomplished expert.

The American Colorist.

By Faber Birren. The Crimson Press, Gorham Ave-
nue, \Vestport, Connecticut. $1.00.

The purpose of this book is to simplify the problems
of color harmony and identification. Its primary purpose
has been to serve the members of garden clubs and
horticultural societies. but it will have effective applica—
tion in many other fields including industries and arts.
Modern principles of beauty have been clearly charted
and described. These principles summarize the art of
color and in simple terms offer suggestions for appealing
floral and color arrangement. Over five hundred different
hues, tints, shades, and tones are exhibited in a series of
twelve charts.

Learn the Trees from Leaf Prints.

By David S. Marx. The Botanic Publishing Com-
pany, Cincinnati, Ohio. $1.00.

This book contains 38 plates of prints of leaves of 194
trees. No descriptive matter accompanies the illustrations,
which tell their own story.

Elementary Education of Adults.

By Ruth Kotinsky. American Association for Adult
Education, New York. $1.50.

In making this study Miss Kotinsky has a number of
basic Questions in mind._How adequate are the reading
and writing, citizenship training, and Americanization
programs originally devised? Does adult elementary edu-
cation as now practiced constitute a first conscious step
toward fuller living? Does citizenship education assure
progress in the direction of democratic participation in
common affairs? The findings of this study throw in-
teresting light on some of these questions.

Camping, 1 Bibliography.

For the Camp Director, the Camp Counselor, and the
Camp Library. Prepared by Harriet I. Carter,
Readers’ Bureau. Chicago Public Library. Chicago
Illinois. Single copies $.40; 25 copies Or more, 
each.

Camp directors should find this booklet with its classi-
fied listing exceedingly helpful. Publications have been
listed under such classifications as \Voodcraft, First Aid,
Indian Lore, Nature Study, Sports, Games and Amuse-
ments, Handicrafts, and other headings.

Bent Tubular Furniture.

By Chris Harold Groneman. The Bruce Publishing
Company, Milwaukee. $2.25.

The fundamental processes -by which steel tubing is
fashioned into furniture are described in this book, and
directions are given for making fifty-one articles. A
perspective sketch, a working drawing, necessary details,
a photograph, and a bill of material with each design
furnish a complete guide.

Adventures _in Growing Up.

By Clifford Lee Brownell, Ph.D.; Jesse Feiring‘
\Villiams, M.D., Sc.D.; Katherine M. Conrad, B.S.;
Ruth Evans, A.M.; A. Abtbott Kaplan, A.M.; Jeanie
M. Pinckney, A.M.; and Dorothy N. Ruef, Ph.D.
American Book Company, New York. $1.60.

The purpose of this book, as stated by the authors, is I
to help in the establishment of healthful ideals and atti-
tudes which will be of service to young men and women
in charting their own course and in planning a program
of healthful living for others. In a section entitled “Ad-
ventures in Safety” much attention is given to safety in
bicycling and there are suggestions for safety precautions I

in enjoying the out of doors.
1

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National I
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Rosam- GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD Buucgtan, President

JOHN G. WINAN'r, First Vice-President

Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice—President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. Knutv, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. Gama Beans, Boston, Mass.

MR3. EDWARD W. BIDDLB, Carlisle, Pa.

Mas. Ronza'r WOODS Buss, Washington, D. C.

HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

Mas. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.

Hean L. Conan, Portland, Ore.

Mas. Anna: C. Cuunn, Jacksonville, Fla.

Mas. THOMAS A. Emson, West Orange, N. J.

Ronzn'r GAanr'r, Baltimore, Md.

Roam? GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.

Ausrm E. Gnirri'rns, Seattle, Wash. l
Mas. NontAN IiAnnowzx, Fitchburg, Mass.

Mas. MELVILLz H. HAsszL, Tucson, Ariz.

Mas. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan City Ind. l
Mas. JOHN D. JAuzson, Sugar Hill, N. if

GusrAvus T. Kinnv New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

Mas. CIIAILES D. Lama, Greenwich, Conn. _ ‘
Ronznr LAssrru, Charlotte, N. C.

SusAN M. Lzz, Boston. Mass. l
0710 T. MALLGv, Philadel hia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburg , Pa.

CARL E. Muttsz, Augusta, Me.

Mas. OGDzN L. Mitts, Woodbury, N. Y. '
Mus. SIGHUND Srznn, San Francisco, Calif.

Mas. Auzs W. WADSWORTII, \Vashington, D. C.

J. ‘C. Au" New York, N. Y.

Fnznzncx M. WAnnuac, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINAN'I', Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WoonwAnD, Washington, D. C.

