Freedom from Fear

   
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
  
  
    
 

FREEDOM FROM FEAR is listed as one of the great freedoms for which we fight.
Very much of fear comes from within.

Religion is hrst in driving out fear.

Recreation, however, is a very important second.

For fatigue has a close relationship to fear.

Recreation, music, games, sports, art, drama can so possess a man and so unify his spirit that there
is no place left for fear.

Recreation can keep such ventilation of life as to aid in keeping fear away.

Much more than recreation is involved in keeping people from being scared.

All one has been, all one is—all one's grandparents were enters in.
There is no substitute for character.

Not even religion nor recreation.

Yet recreation can help mightily.

It is a tool which wise men recognize and use.

Of course religion and recreation are ends and not tools.

Man is religious and man plays because he is man. because that is his nature, because that most fully
makes him a man.

et we recognize that perfect religion drives out fear. That is just stating a fact.

And recreation—keeping alive—keeping the central nres going—keeping the smile, keeping the
lilt—helps also to give an inner unity and power that keeps fear away.

When the inner fires are right, then we know that it is not too important just to keep on breathing,
that what matters most is that we never forget that we are men and play our part as men.

Recreation helps us to see clearly what is important and what is merely trivial.

Reality we will face. Yet we want to be sure that we do not forget how much of the time the sun
is shining.

There is no reason why we'should not enjoy our meals just'because these are difiicult times.

here is no gain in rushing and hurrying about.

A little time each day may well be set aside for considering just what is right in our homes, in
our neighborhoods and in our nation.

Ve play because we are men—not to drive away fear.

Yet let's recognize that recreation with religion helps to keep fear away.

 

JULY I942

 

205

 

{Huer- ‘ngn‘wn uqudn‘ Bay" Club, New York City

A Patriotic Play Program

reorganized summer

recreation program, we
are conducting a drive for
physical fitness not only for
boys of military age but for
the entire family.

Volleyball. “Play volleyball
for health” is the slogan on
our forty-four municipal play-
grounds. Attractive red,white,
and blue posters inviting
boys, girls, men, and women to play have been
placed conspicuously around the playgrounds.
Everyone is urged to participate, and it is hoped
that mother and daughter, father and son will
develop skills which will make the game enjoyable
to all. Each center is supplied with extra equip-
ment, and several volleyball courts can be in action
from 9:00 A. M. to 9 :00 P. M. daily.

6 s A PART of Philadelphia’s

time needs.

program

The outdoor volleyball campaign will terminate
in the annual city championship to be held at the
close of the summer season. Efforts will be made
to insure this being the biggest outdoor tourna-
ment in the history of the Bureau. In the 1932
championship, ninety-one teams were on the field
when the signal was given to start. This was re-
ported to be the largest single tournament ever
held in this country. The goal for 1942 is to have
more than 100 teams participating.

Swimming Instruction. With the opening of the
swimming pools a drive will begin for swimming
instruction. Everyone who frequents the thirty-
eight municipal pools will be asked to enroll for
the free swimming lessons. “Swim for Health”
posters will be placed at the pools to remind peo-
ple of the pleasure and physical benefits to be
derived from systematic swimming.

During the summer of 1941 swimming instruc—
tions were given to 11,131 persons. The goal will
be to double this number during 1942 “Swim for
Health” drive. The annual swimming champion-
ship, which is one of the highlights of the summer
program, will end the swimming campaign.

Morale Building. Community singing, commu-
nity parades, and special activities to provide en-
tertainment at the playgrounds are scheduled on

By MINNA B. REICHELT

Bureau of Recreation
Philadelphia' Pennsylvania

The Philadelphia Bureau of Recreation
has organized its program to meet war-
Activities on the summer
playground schedule have been planned
to help America win the war. Better
health. strengthened moraleI and com-
munity service are obiectives of the

outlined in this article.

the summer program to
strengthen morale.

The Pledge of Allegiance
is recited by the boys and
girls during the raising of the
flag in the early morning ses-
sions. This is followed by the
singing of “The Star-Spangled
Banner.” Patriotic songs,
popular war tunes, oldftime
favorites, and the lighter pop-
ular songs which appeal to

boys and girls are taught during the afternoon
sessions. As darkness falls and activities end, the
children gather around for a final songfest before
dismissal. '

Special Events. Fourth of July parades, safety,
health, lantern, and doll parades are planned for
the benefit of the community. A series of weekly
local playground events and contests for boys and
girls are scheduled throughout the summer sea-
son. These include sand modeling and water car-
nivals, creative plays written and produced by
children, original playground song contests, folk
dancing, baby parades, checker and jackstone
tournaments, contests in pinpack making, soap
bubbles, whistling, freckles, and a Joseph' Lee Day
celebration. These events are planned in addition
to the daily program of games, storytelling, and
handcraft activities to help build morale.

Service Through Elimination. It is an unusual
state of affairs when service is given by discon-
tinuing service. By eliminating the city-wide
leagues and tournaments which have been con-
ducted annually, the country will be served through
the conservation of gasoline and tires. Foreseeing
the difiiculty of transportation the baseball leagues,
softball leagues, tennis tournaments, and track and
field contests were eliminated from the summer
schedule. Local leagues will continue as usual
with additional leagues organized for defense.
workers.

The Handcraft Program. The greater part of
the handcraft program is now devoted to making
articles “for the American Red Cross. A visit to
the Southeastern Chapter disclosed a— number of
things which could easily be made at the play-

207

208 A PATRIOTIC PLAY PROGRAM
splinted their victims. Mes-
sengers called the litter bear-
ers who came with stretchers
and removed the victims to
the waiting ambulance. The
ambulances drove to the rear
of the building, and the pa-
tients were carried into the

In planning the summer playground pro-
gram so that the children may have a
part in the war effort. keep in mind
the assistance the booklet "Crafts in
Wartime" can give you. Copies ma be
secured at thirty-five cents each rom
the National Recreation Association.

grounds out of discarded ma-
terials and which are needed
very much in the hospitals.
These included ash trays,
memorandum books, flower
vases, bookmarkers, lap
boards, scrapbooks, stuffed
toys, hospital slippers, etc.

For the past two years, at Christmas time, the
Bureau of Recreation has presented the American
Red Cross with gifts of more than twelve hundred
articles which were made by the handcraft groups
in the fall and winter classes. An additional dona-
tion will be given this fall from the articles which
are made during the summer season.

It Air Raids Come. In the event of an air raid
the centers will be used as emer-
gency hospitals and for temporary
housing. \Vater Tower Recrea-
tion Center is already equipped
with over three hundred cots,

bedding, blankets, wash-
cloths, towels, dishes, can-
ned goods, refrigerators, and
gas stoves to meet this need
should it arise. On May 23rd
and 24th the Center played
host to fifty Boy Scouts who
were housed over the week
end as evacuees. A well-
organized committee which
included registrars, trained
first aiders, litter bearers, an
emergency ambulance corps
with four fully equipped sta-
tion wagons, trained nurses’
aides, and the committee on
supplies operated and func-
tioned to gain the practical
experience necessary for an
actual evacuation.

The registration commit-
tee registered each Scout
and collected all data that
was helpful in the identifi-
cation of the “victims.” A
mock air raid was staged
with many victims injured.
They were found lying
around the grounds with
tags pinned on them to in-
dicate their injuries. The
first aiders bandaged and

    
 

   

Von DEFENSE ’

9051M. SPNI N65 STAMPS

   
  

Print by Gedge Harmon

Many playground children are contributing
to the war effort by the purchase of war
stamps. and, in some instances. by their
sale. In Cleveland Heights, Ohio, the
Junior Ballet group sponsored by the Divi-
sion of Recreation gave a dance recital
advertised as a "Dance for Defense." Ad-
mission was a voucher certifying to the
purchase of a ten or twenty-five cent war
stamp sold by the playground children. At
the door, patrons turned in the vouchers
and received their stamps. One woman in-
sisted on giving the young salesman who

called on her $l8.75 for a $25 war bond!

gymnasium which served as an emergency hos-
pital. They were carefully lifted on to cots where
the bandaging and splinting were examined by
Erle Jackson, Director of First Aid, Southeastern
Chapter of the American Red Cross.

The canteen committee prepared a delicious
cooked dinner, plentiful enough so that the boys
could have two or three helpings if they wished.
Another shift prepared breakfast and
lunch. A program of games, motion
pictures and a hike, plus the excellent
care that the boys received, made them
feel that being an “evacuee” was some-

thing to look forward to
with pleasure rather than
fear.

Making Centers Available.
Fingerprinting and photo-
graphing of members of the
OCD are being done at sev-
eral centers. Local draft
boards and tire rationing
boards have permanent
headquarters in a number
of buildings. Air raid war-
den units and auxiliary
police units are meeting
regularly in the recreation
centers, with oflicial head-
quarters established in sev-
eral places. The centers will
continue to be available to
the USO for dances for en-
listed men, while the Ameri-
can Red Cross will continue
to use them for first aid
practice in mock bombing
tests with the “victims” sup-
plied by the centers and
bandaged by the first aiders.
First aid classes and home
nursing groups will con-
tinue throughout the sum-
mer months.

(Continued on page 254)

I Some Practical Program Suggestions

uRecreation Week" Popular

By RALPH HILEMAN

Superintendent of Recreation
Springfield. Vermont

  
  
  
  
 

HE SUCCESS OF “Recreation Week,” set aside
in Springfield, Vermont, to sum up and bring
to community attention the work of the Rec-
reation Commission, came largely from excellent
dvance publicity. In Springfield best results were
obtained by cooperating with the local newspaper
taff and allowing ample time for them to prepare
eatures, plan layout and solicit special advertising.
The publicity committee was prepared to make
, suggestions for articles, supply pictures, arrange
'nterviews, plan the week’s program, and finally
0 see that it went off smoothly.
Each year when the Town Manager officially
roclaims “Recreation Week,” a full page spread
n a special edition of the paper displays the procla-
mation boxed below a streamer announcing “Rec-
Ireation W eek in Springfield.” Some space is
taken by advertising of a congratulatory nature
from concerns doing business with the Recreation
Department. The following subjects have appeared
on Springfield’s special recreation pages: a sym—
posium on the importance of community recrea—
I tion, giving brief statements from the president of
the Chamber of Commerce, district nurse, presi-
dent of the Manufacturers’ Association, high
school principal, Mothers’ Club president, etc.; an
lionorarium to Joseph Lee; a Survey report on the
program, written by Miss Ethel Bowers for the
occasion; recreation statistics for the Summer; and
a restatement of recreation objectives. Space was
reserved for captioned pictures, i. e., the town
manager, Recreation Commission chairman, vari-
ous play activities; and for a
calendar of the week’s events.
Featured on the program
were horseshoe, tennis, and
softball tournament finals; an
invitation swimming meet;
which required out-of-town
publicity; final playground
pageant; picnic; folk danc-
| ing; and an always popular

For the past two years the Springfield.
Vermontl Recreation Commission has set
aside as "Recreation Week'' the final
week of the summer playground season.
This. it is felt. might well be clone each
summer in the future' for the Com-
mission believes that by spotlighting the
program in this way it is possible to
tell more successfully the story of the
Commission's day-by-day activities.

Married — Men — versus - Single - Men softball game.
Those who did not participate in any of these en-
joyed archery, volleyball, ping—pong, badminton
or croquet. "

“Recreation Week” has become so popular in
Springfield that a winter carnival was inaugurated
to highlight the cold weather recreation program.

Drafting the Dump!

COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, is salvaging its budget
this year by using scrap metal and waste
lumber for some of its recreation projects. Addi—
tional park and playground equipment which has
been needed for some time has been constructed
inexpensively through a policy of salvage, wise
buying, the use of student labor, and a little fore-
Sight.

The Recreation Commission recently went to a
the city junk pile when they needed new facilities
for the Water and Light Park. A survey Showed
that there was enough scrap metal in the dump to
make a unit of four swings. Recreation leaders took
the metal to the defense training class of the in-
dustrial arts department of the University of Mis-
souri where students welded and forged it into
Swings that compare favorably with those pur-
chased from any playground equipment company.

At factory prices the swings would have cost the
Recreation Commission $71, not allowing for the
cost of installation. The total bill for these “junk
pile” Swings will be only forty cents for seat boards,
and the problem of erecting the swings at the park ‘
will be handled by a carpenter training class.

Croquet mallets on the playgrounds must be re-
placed continually because of constant wear and
rough usage. Columbia needed new ones for this
coming summer, but the cost would have been
$17. 50. Instead of buying new
Sets, recreation leaders turned
the old mallet handles over
to the industrial arts depart-
ment of Columbia High
School. With these and some
scrap birch wood donated by
a local factory, the class turn-
ed out new mallets of profes-
sional quality.

209

.le- .S‘CUU: I’RAC’I‘IL 41L PRULIR.’1JI 5L GUESTIUNS

 

. 7......“-

Courtesy East Orange Board of Recreation Commissioner:

 

Introducing a very important organization—the

The University de-
fense training class came
to the rescue of the Commission again when they
built a diving board for one of the swimming pools.
A new board would have cost the city $48; with
the aid of the class it came only to $26, the cost of
materials. A storage cabinet built by the same
class was constructed for $14, a saving of $11.

The most notable saving of the Commission
came last fall when they purchased $475 worth of
softball equipment at a sale price of $289 from a
local sporting goods firm. Since that time war
priorities have skyrocketed the price of such equip-
ment and cut down on available materials.

Last }ear the city park and playground equip-
ment was limited to a few tables, outdoor ovens,
croquet Courts. and two teeter-totter boards. This
year (oltunlna's park patrons will have an
econ no} wisc- Recreation (‘ommission to thank for
tiltir nnprotul playground.

Building Playground Attendance

Tn.“ Pl‘..‘\Y(;ROI”\'DS of “'ilmette, Illinois, accord-
ing to llaniel \l. Davis. Director of Recreation,
nave exlwriencwl a marked increase in attend-
ance on the part of boys since the organization of
an intraplajground witl'aall league which supple-
ments the Clt)‘ softball leagues which have been

Midget Baseball Team of East Orange. New Jersey!

in operation for many
years.

Games are played three days each week in both
the Junior and Senior divisions. By the end of the
first week of the playground season, the instructor
selects three or four boys to serve as captains of
these teams. The captains should be natural lead-
ers and the instructor must be sure of them, for
on their shoulders rests to a great degree the re-‘
sponsibility for the success of the league. '

The captains choose their teams of seven or
eight boys from the boys who have already signed
up on the playground. Then the captains and
teams are told to recruit any other boys in their
age groups from the town to fill out their team;
and improve them. The Junior age limit is tell
years, the Senior, thirteen years. A boy may pla'
on a team on his first appearance at the playL
ground, but after his first game, he must particit
pate in some playground activity other than soft-
ball before he can continue playing the game.

No award is made to winning teams, but th¢
captain of the losing team is required to write a.
account of the game for the playground page 0‘
the weekly neWs magazine. '

The playground instructor helps to keep up in-
terest in the games by treating them as very im-
portant official events and he insists that thel
umpire regard them in the same way.

 

The Age of Chivalry

WAR-RIDDEN WORLD, the savage onslaught, the
A ruthless hand of invasion and aggression

forewarn us that word “chivalry” may be-
come obsolete. Knighthood flourished long before
the days of air raids, bombs, tanks and smokeless
powder.

The concept of perpetuating the ideals of-

chivalry which sent forth many a knight to avenge
wrongdoing and to protect the weak, inspired the
Vincennes Public Library to live for eight weeks
among brave knights and lovely ladies so that the
beauty of other days might not perish from the
earth.

The “Quest of the Book Cavaliers” consisted of
an intimate study of feudal life, the great events of
chivalry, the careful training of Page, Esquire and
Knight, the romantic legends of King Arthur and
his knights of the Round Table. The "children were
divided into four old and established orders of
knighthood; grades I and 2, Knights of the Gar-
ter; 3 and 4, Knights of the Thistle; 5 and 6,
Knights of St. Michael and St. George; 7 and 8,
Knights of the Bath. The strongly fortified Castle
of Knowledge was set up in the children’s room,
together with the Dragon’s cemetery in which
were buried bad deeds and the Spirit of Ignorance.
A plot of the cemetery was on diSplay, and a deed
was issued for five satisfactory book reports, the
choice lots going to the first reports. When ten
books had been reported upon, the right to erect a
monument was granted. At the close of the proj-
ect the library had on display a large plaque, with

By
JANE KITCHELL

The Vincennes Public
Library for years has
had its vacation read-
ing proiects. Last sum-
mer's "Quest of the
Book Cavaliers" was

a study of feudal life
and Arthurian legends.

all the monuments on which the children’s names
were inscribed and the number of books read.
Many lofty spires reached heavenward. Twenty-
live ~books had one type of monument, fifty an-
other, some square, some flat. The tallest spire
arose for the most books read.

At the time of registration silver helmets were
given to the knights, and to the ladies, the head-
dress of the Middle Ages, cornucopias with gay
streamers. Shields were presented to both knights
and ladies. For each dragon slain (book read) a
bright colored dragon outlined in black was clipped
to the shields.

A Round Table was held each Saturday morn-
ing, in keeping with King Arthur and his legends,
when the most valiant knights and ladies had their
names inscribed upon their chairs. Decorations
were conferred for the best book reports and
spears were presented. Since no figure in litera-
ture so completely embodies the ideal virtues of
knighthood as King Arthur, an intimate study
was madeof the cycle of Arthurian legends which
are strongly individualized in Sir Galahad, Launce—
lot, Tristram, Perceval, and others.

The programs were supplemented 'with slides
from Indiana University which included Idylls of
the King, the Holy Grail, Lady of the Lake, Ivan-
hoe, Robin Hood, and Canterbury Pilgrim Tales.
The ideals which inspired the romantic lives of
the medieval crusaders lived again. It was stressed
that chivalry is in the reach of all, that there are
many people who live unselfish lives, who do great
things in small ways without the recognition of
the world, “members -of the Table Round to which
all heroic souls belong,” who sow the seeds of
chivalry as surely as did King Arthur’s knights.

211

212 THE AGE OF CHIVALRY

The project culminated in a tournament. One
morning in late July, just as the sun topped over
the trees, the library staged its most spectacular
program in the bandshell at Gregg Park. George
Tolson, master of ceremonies clad in full armor,
shouted. “Knights come forth.” The ropes fell,
and to the strains of the National Emblem March
a brilliant cavalcade of knights and ladies, escorted
by Sir Timmy Garrigus and Sir Henry Knowles
mounted on ponies, wended its way through the
trees. Helmets gleamed and flashed in the sun,
bridles of the ponies blazed with color, and polished
shields displayed many dragons.

Next followed Sir Galahad of the North Branch
library, Charles Tolson, carrying two crowns upon
a pillow, and Sir Thomas Hartzburg and Lady
Betty Moore, both attended by a retinue of knights
and ladies-in-waiting. Sir Thomas was acclaimed
King Arthur, and Lady Betty, Queen of Love and
Beauty. Sir Galahad crowned the King and
Queen, pointing out that Arthur became king be-
cause he had the power to remove the sword from
the stone, a feat no other knight was able to per-
form. Sir Thomas Hartzburg had proved his right
to be king in that he had the power to read more
books than any other knight in the vacation read-
ing project, and Lady Betty had become queen
because she had read the largest number of books
in the North Branch Library.

After his crowning King Arthur conferred
knighthood upon his attendants. As each knelt
before him to receive the accolade, a blow dealt
upon the shoulder with his sword, King Arthur
said: “In the name of God and St. George and St.
Michael, I dub thee knight. Be brave and loyal.”
This was followed by the tournament in which
skill in arms were displayed by Sir Timmy Gar-
rigus and Sir Henry Knowles, who clashed swords
as did knights of old. There were also a spear-

throwing contest and an orange joust and a
cracker joust.

During Book \Veek the library presented the
Age of Chivalry before a joint meeting of all Par-
ent-Teacher Associations of the city, and at this
time diplomas were awarded. The program was
divided into three parts. Part one, the Founding
of the Round Table, ideals of chivalry, and re-
newal of their vows. Part two, the Night of the
Tournament when Lady Betty, chosen as the
Queen of Love and Beauty (a feature of many

tournaments), escorted by her ladies-inm-aiting
took her seat upon a dais.

.Men down through the ages have made t

The heralds presented the knights who had dis-i
tinguished themselves for the most books read and‘
best reports; and, as they knelt before the grociou
queen, she bestowed upon each one a gift. Tq
Sir Galahad was given a gold shield and helmet.
Recognition and honor were paid to Lady Dori
Montgomery and Lady Arista \Vhitfield, ladies
in-waiting, for distinguished service in partici
pating in every vacation reading project from thei
first year in school.

There was music and dancing, and wanderi
minstrels. The knights and ladies of the Order
the Garter, from grades I and 2, wearing the in
signia of the order, delighted the audience vi
the song “Good King Arthur.” Then followed tl
ball and the curtain fell upon an Old English fo
dance.

   
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
  

Quest of the Twentieth Century Knights

A colorful and inspiring ceremony of trumpet
drums and flags stressed the ideals of patrioti
and service to one’s country as the opportunity
Twentieth Century Knights—the quest of a perm
nent peace, the founding of a new world ord
where suspicion and hate, greed and aggressi
have no part. The chivalry of our flag \
stressed, for chivalry has in it the love of countr

supreme sacrifice that it might live. The Twen
eth Century Knights, in taking the oath of al
giance to the Flag, pledged themselves to see to
that this spirit still lives on, to cherish justice
all, to carry peace throughout the world, for “t
Age of Chivalry is never passed as long as th
is wrong left unredressed upon the earth.”
There may or may not have been a King Arth
but the library believes the adventures of knig
hood were not without benefit, that the literat
of many generations ago still stirs the imagi
tion of boys and girls of today. Perhaps
inheritance is the same as the period wl '
followed the Middle Ages, with their dark
stormy times. But out of those dark days can'
new dawn, one of the most glorious periods in
history of mankind. Seeds of democracy
sown in those feudal times, with a struggle
better conditions in life, a greater justice an
greater freedom.
And who of us are immune to fairy tales? .-
we not take hope at the present time from the
\Velsh legend that King Arthur is only asleep i
cave, that he did not really die but his body

(Continued on page 253)

“ O 0
America's Children "

LL THROUGH the winter
A months, Horizon Club
girls over the country
have been culling information
about facilities in their com-
munities for the care of handi-
+capped children and discov-
ering ways in which they can
.contribute to this care and
training to help the handi—
,capped have as normal a life
as possible.

The idea for the project grew out of the 1940
\Nhite House Conference on Children in a De-
mocracy, in which the need for arousing commu-
nity interest in the care and education of children
resulted in the formation of a National Citizens’
Committee. Dr. Betty Eckhardt May, Director of
the Committee, is a National Adviser of the Hori—
zon Club and the plans for the project were made
with her helpful advice. The girls, thrilled to have
the opportunity to take part, decided to concen-
trate their efforts on the problems of the physi-
cally handicapped.

The first step was to consult with the Council
of Social Agencies or other welfare associations,
and to secure the cooperation of some person who
was familiar with community service to act as
consultant. Then the Horizon Club girls formed
four committees, one to gather data about the care
of the blind and partially sighted, one to find out
about facilities for the deaf and hard of hearing,
one for the crippled, and one for the chronically ill.

Next they canvassed the community, visiting
hospitals, schools, social agencies, Chambers of
Commerce, getting statistics about the actual num-
ber of handicapped children, what facilities there
are to care for them, what the cost of this special
care is to the parents of the children, and what
facilities are needed. They wrote to state and
federal officials for information about the state or
federally financed institutions available to the handi—
capped in their vicinities. They studied federal
and state publications about the proper care of the
handicapped and the control of diseases so that
they would be able to judge what had been left
undone in their own towns.

The committees reported their findings and

By MARCIA LEE

To all those discouraged by the difficul-
ties of getting people to tackle the prob-
lems of their community
reports of the "America's Children" proj-
ect carried out this last year by the Hori-
zon Clubs' Senior Camp Fire organiza-
tion. The girls have their hearts in the
problems of the handicapped childrenI
and the reports of their several months'
work are records of real accomplishment.

made careful inventories of
all agencies and facilities
available to the handicapped
included in the four categories.

Then they discussed the
next step. Almost without
exception, the agencies need—
ed_money for equipment and
publicity to bring their needs
to the attention of the public.
Each group found a way to
meet this problem. For ex-
ample, in Columbus, Ohio, after the girls had
visited Monnett House, recreation center for the
blind, and had talked with Miss Catherine Schnei—
der, a blind woman who has dedicated her life to
bringing the same education opportunities that she
has had to others without advantages, they were
determined to do an effective job of publicizing
her work. They decided to put on a minstrel

show. But let the girls tell about it themselves:

“It seemed everyone wanted to help us. We found
the finest cooperation everywhere. Two of the city’s
finest dancing schools provided dancing specialties.
The music center of one of our large department
stores loaned us their accordion band. The costumer
furnished the end men and our ‘Mammy’ singer with .
beautiful costumes. We procured the services of
professional musicians, and the pianist was with us
for nearly every long and grilling practice. And
almost everyone who was asked to advertise in our
program bought at least a small space. . . .

“Our oHice staff was pressed into service to prompt,
pull curtains, keep the acts coming from the wings,
and just generally make themselves useful. Boy
friends and brothers of Camp Fire Girls found them-
selves working lights, hooking up the loud speaker
system, taking tickets, and carrying chairs. . . .

“With swiftly beating hearts and trembling lingers
we took our places, the chorus on the stage, looking
very attractive in their Camp Fire costumes, and the
interlocutor, end men and Specialties in the wings to
await their entrances. . . .

“In one wing was a quiet reminder of the purpose
of our show. Here sat Miss Catherine Schneider
from Monnett House and her Seeing Eye Dog,
Flossie. Her presence reminded us all of the many
sightless persons whom we were trying .to serve and
made us fervently hope that for their sake the show

would be a success. . . .
“During the intermission Catherine Schneider

brought ,Flossie out on the stage with her as she told
about the work of Monnett House. Then Flossie

213

. we dedicate the

31+  ’ .lHiRIC'.l'S C HILDREN "

was put trm “5.: tier routine pcrlvrtltalitc It- show
everyone :‘USI what sucn a dog could be taught to do.
This was a very ttfective appeal for help in the
moments task undertaken by the Columbus Associa-
Iirn for the lilind. . . 

ln .\linnea}mlis the girls put on a benetit carni-
val . and in St Paul the girls staged a commu-
nit} gathering and thought up an ingenious quiz
program in which all took part. The community
found out a lot that they hadn't known before
about what was being done and what needed to be
done for the handicapped! In Sherman, Texas,
Horizon Clubbers thought that hearing tests for
pupils should be carried-on in the schools and
wrote to the president of the School Board making
their recommendation. And when they discovered
that there was no County Health Unit working for
the prevention of diseases as there was in other
communities, they sent off another letter to the
(-14.1111) Commissioner’s
Lem-t. A week later a notice
appeared in the Sherman

Horizon Club girls in Portland, Maine,

teaching a square dance to the chil-
dren at the Maine School for the Deaf

papers that plans w ere being considered to estab-
lish a County Health Service.

Publicity and money raising stunts were only
one phase of the job Horizon Club members made
for themselves. Visits to institutions for the blind,
deaf, crippled and chronically ill, as each report
noted, made the girls realize that these children
were just like other children and wanted just as
much to have friends, have fun, and do interesting
things.

So they planned accordingly. Alec Templeton,
who is a member of the “America’s Children”
project advisory committee, arranged for tickets
to one of his Detroit concerts for Horizon Club
girls, and each of the girls invited a blind girl from
the Northern High School blind class to be her
guest at the concert. They had a wonderful time
and became such good friends that many of these
blind girls are now coming to special Horizon
Club meetings and parties.

In Portland, Maine, Hori-

(C'ontfmwd on page 256)

 

   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

a man with countless

ideas! He was the first
Kiwanian—the man who was
responsible not only for the
rst Kiwanis Club, but for the idea and ideals
1pon which all Kiwanis clubs are built.

One day this same original, first Kiwanian saw
some young urchins playing in the middle of one
of our busy streets not far from the center of the
shopping district. These boys lived right in the
heart of downtown Detroit where the houses were
so poor and so crowded together that there seemed
to be no spot where a boy could find a few square
feet to express the play urges that were his natural
inheritance. And so—because all boys must play—
they were playing, trying to make a two-base hit
and get to base in safety. However, the batter had
to watch much more than the opposing team of
layers to get safely to base. He had to watch and
odge automobiles that also had a legal right on
hat narrow busy street.

‘N hen the street became too crowded, there was
he alley. True, one had to dodge trucks, garbage
cans and flies, but, after all, these things were a
part of life. The game broke up suddenly; the
boys began shouting at Mr. Prance, some even
wearing. It seems he had run over a scooter
'hich had-been left in the road! Mr. Prance
opped his car and got acquainted with the boys.
e soon learned that the only reason they were
isking their lives to play in the streets and alleys
as that they could not find a better place, at
ast not near home. Even a city like Detroit,
ger to meet the needs of every man, woman

nd child, can seldom provide enough public play-

rounds within a one and one half mile radius of

e heart of the city. Property is too scarce and
Q00 prohibitive in price.

Joe Prance took this story to the Kiwanis Clubs
10f Detroit and Highland Park,
«and to Clarence Brewer, Gen-
eral Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation. Mr. Brewer
and his assistant, John J. Con-
sidine, agreed to furnish trained
staff members to plan, organize,
and direct daily vacation out-

' OE PRANCE must have been

There are many very practical sugges-
tions in this article for any group
contemplating the establishment of a
day camp. Since I935 the city
troit and the Kiwanis Club have oper-
ated a campI and during this period
a great deal of information has been
acquired on methods and procedures.

A City with a Heart—A. Club with an “idea

By VIOLA P. ARMSTRONG

Senior Instructor
Department of Parks and Playgrounds
Detroit. Michigan

ings for these underprivileged
children if the Kiwanis Clubs
would guarantee to provide
food and transportation. Thus
was, born the Kiwanis Day
Camps which, since the passing of Mr. Prance,
have become known as the Kiwanis Joe Prance
Day Camps. And so the spirit of the first Ki-
wanian lives on, not only in these clubs for men,
but in the lives of thousands of boys and girls
whose entire future may be influenced.

This was in the year 1935. For the past seven
years about two hundred children from ten to
fourteen years of age have been taken daily by bus,
four days each week during summer vacation, to
Detroit’s beautiful Belle Isle, probably the largest
and finest island park in the world. Underprivileged
boys and girls who cannot go to the country, find
vacations brought to their doorstep.

‘ 'U

Ready to Go !

The story of these stay-at-home vacations is
happy and exciting. Every Monday morning all
summer approximately two hundred children
gather as early as eight o’clock at the. Delray
Presbyterian Institute and at the Gallagher Rec-
reation Center. Recreation leaders are on hand-to
greet them and to choose tribal chieftains. The
chieftains in turn are privileged to make up their
tribe of ten warriors. Proud and happy are those
chosen as chieftains! Kiwanis representatives are
always on hand to see the children off and to wish
them a happy day.

The first week every child is required to bring
his card .of invitation bearing his name, address
and age, plus a form waiver signed by a parent
giving permission to attend the camps and freeing
the city and the Kiwanis Club from responsibility
in case of unavoidable accidents. In the seven
years, however, we have had no serious accident,
and even minor scratches and
bruises are almost unheard of.

Buses leave at 8:30 A. M.
Tribes first ready, with arm-
band tied securely on left arm,
board the buses first. The'arm-
bands, being'an identification,
are worn at all times except

215

of De-

216 A CITY WITH A HEART—A CLUB WITH AN IDEA

during swimming period when colored bathing
caps are substituted. The Chieftain stands at the
door of the bus. As his tribe gets on he collects
their cards. \Vhen all are aboard he counts the
cards. writes the tribe’s name on his own card
along with the number in his group, places it on
top, and after putting a rubber band around the
cards hands them to one of the leaders in charge.
When all the tribes are on the buses the leaders
have only to add up the numbers on the tOp card
of each tribe to know the correct total for the day
and how many lunches to order.

It is probably eight or ten miles to Belle Isle
from the community centers, so the ride begins
the day’s fun with singing, games, and yells. Upon
arrival at Belle Isle, the buses unload at the Ath-
letic Field where flag raising has first place in the
day’s events. Following a short patriotic talk the
children are free to do as they wish. We feel that
part of a vacation is the joy of doing what one
longs to do—not what one must do. However, we
encounter no difficulties, for the activities avail-
able are built around the needs and desires of the
children.

They Arrive at Camp

Handcraft in a shady spot under the trees be-
comes a fascinating adventure when one can make
reed baskets, trays and other attractive gifts with
which to surprise and delight mother. Bead and
leather work, bracelets and purses to proudly dis-
play at home add glamour to the day. Through
the generosity of the Kiwanis members the ma-
terials are furnished free of charge so that all
children may have the fun of making things with-
out begging for money at home, since even pennies
are scarce in some homes.

Dramatics are popular, too, and for a few
moments each day the youngsters who wish may
live in a make-believe world. This summer, in plays
for both boys and girls, voice, posture, poise and
character were stressed.

Then there are baseball, kickball, boxing, circle
and tag games, or just play for those who like to
make up their own games. Among two hundred
children there is much individuality and our great-
est hOpe is to develop this. We do not want our
children to feel regimented, and that, perhaps, ac-
counts for the success of these camps. However,
we must have the groups really well organized at
all times in order to live up to the confidence
placed in us by the city and parents.

Then comes a nature hike through the woods,

with one of our four leaders along to keep the
group from forgetting to return in time for the ten-I
thirty whistle which calls all tribes together. At
this time chieftains check to be sure no warrior is
missing. If one has disappeared, he must be found,
through his tribe members. Each child has a
buddy with whom he is expected to keep in touch
during the day. Should a chieftain forget the name
or description of a missing warrior, we have only
to return his package of cards. These he can.
quickly give out to his tribe and the unclaimed’
card tells the missing child’s name, address and‘
age. Then it is easy to find some one who knows
him, trace where he was last seen, and find him
quickly. Usually the missing child has been sol
interested in his play that he has not heard tth

whistle.

At 10:30, we hike to the playground about onef
quarter of a mile away. Swings, slides, giant stride
and the other attractions found on a well-planne
playground are available. Here the children pla
to their hearts’ content for about thirty minutes.

At I I :30 comes wash-up time. Chieftains chec
on warriors and all leave in a group for the spa
cious Casino where luncheon is served on th
veranda overlooking the Detroit River. Four boy
are chosen to help prepare and serve lunch, whicl
consists of two large hot dogs or hamburgers (al
ternating weekly), a bottle of milk and a “fro
bite.” At first sandwiches, milk and “frost bites’
were ordered from independent concerns and de
livered to the Casino. For the past three or fou
years, however, with the fine cooperation of th
Casino management, Tony, the cook, now prepare
the hot dogs or hamburgers and our four boys p1
them into rolls, serve the meal, and afterwar
clean up the veranda.

Following lunch comes the story hour perio
held near-by for those who wish to attend. Othe
play checkers, fish, or sit in groups and chat
play quiet games.

After rest period, at 12 :45, tribes gather on tl
grass for their Safety Club meeting. Through t
interest of the Detroit Police Department’s Safet
Division, a sound car with public address syst
and two officers have become a happy part of th'
daily outing. Safety education has become an a
venture and a challenge! Sometimes these pr
grams turn into amateur hours and the childre
have the thrill of performing over the microphon
while passersby stop to watch the fun.

At one o’clock all leave for the bathing beach
a distance of perhaps a half mile. On cool days

  
   
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
  

A CITY PVITH A HEART—A CLUB WITH AN IDEA 217

when a long swimming period is unwise, a stop is
made en route to the beach for a twenty minute
“monkey show” at the 200. The children have
come to know and love the monkeys and their
amusing antics. Then, too there are the many
other animals at the Island Zoo, of which the
elephant is the prime favorite.

When all have arrived at the bath houses, arm
bands are collected and bathing caps distributed——
blue green to the boys and yellow to the girls.
White caps are worn by the children who have
passed the swimming test which permits them to
swim in deeper water. As the children leave the
bath house for the beach, each checks out with his
buddy by number. Every child has a number on
his card corresponding to the number on his
waiver. For example, Mary and Helen are bud-
dies. Mary's card number is 24 and Helen’s is 122.
When they check in they need only say “24-122.”
This saves time, for numbers can be jotted down
faster than names.

During the swimming period two whistles mean
“find your buddy and hold up his hand.” Three
whistles mean “swimming is over, come to shore,
dry your cap on the beach, turn it in and check
out.” Caps must be thoroughly dried before the

- swimmers can check out, each with'his buddy.

Home Again!

Following the swimming period, children gather
' outside the bath house to await the buses, which
arrive about 3:30 or 3 :45. Here the Chieftain re-
turns the cards to his tribe to be used again the
following week. Waivers collected on the iirst day
Ithe child attends are kept on tile at our office and
his card marked W. I. (waiver in.)
The same children come one day each week
throughout the summer. Last summer, on Tues-
'days, they came from the Neighborhood House
Settlement; \Vednesdays from Lutheran Charities,
St. John’s Episcopal Church House and Christ
Child Settlement; on Thursdays, they were from
three centers-—Weinman Settlement, Polish Aid
and St. Rita Community House. The staff workers
at these centers were responsible for investigating
and selecting the children most in need of vaca-
tions. Their interest and help have been one of the
highlights of this cooperative venture.

An Adventure in Cooperation

Kiwanis is an Indian name meaning “to build”
I and Joe Prance and his fellow Kiwanians have
built and are continuously building “Foundations

for Youth.” These vacations at home have proved
a fitting monument to the memory of the line man
whose love for humanity has brought happiness
into the lives of many. Gilbert Gymer, President
of Riverside Club, has very ably taken over the
chairmanship during the past two or three years

and has proved himself as tireless and devoted to
these children as Mr. Prance himself. Mr. Dick

"Richard is another Detroit Kiwanian who has be-

come a “friend and pal” to the children. He spent
many hours this past summer making a colored
motion picture of these outings.

So many individuals and so many city depart—
ments, independent business groups and Kiwanis
Club members have come to have a personal part
in Detroit’s day camp venture that we have had
to omit names except in rare instances. However,
we do want to mention the Detroit Street Railway
which since the very first day camp seven years ago
has so willingly furnished buses to us at cost, and
the Recreation Division of the WPA through
which Mrs. Lottie A. Colligan of the Department
of Parks and Recreation has been able to secure
two workers each year to supplement our own two
part-time Civil Service instructors, all who could
be spared from the city playground summer pro-
gram. This gives us a staff of four instructors,
with two additional specialists—one in handcraft,
the other in dramatics. These two specialists are
loaned to the camps a few hours each day making
possible a more interesting, creative program.

A total of 28,155 children have attended these
camps during the seven years of their existence.
We have watched many grow up from so-called
problem children to fine young men and women
who often come back to visit us and thank us for
the splendid influence these camps have been in
their lives.

The Decatur, Illinois, Department of Public Rec-

_reation reports 42 days of day camping last sum-

mer with a total attendance of 472 boys and 447
girls. The camp was open to children between the
ages of eight and fourteen. Instruction was given
in tent pitching, safety, firewood gathering. fire
building, and cooking over an open fire without
utensils, The children played active games of the
woodland type, and council ring activities consist-
ed of quiet games, storytelling, tricks and stunts.
The total expenses amounted to about $920. The
Lions Club gave financial assistance, while the
Macon County Commodity Depot each day pro—
vided fruit for the campers’ “nibble box.”

The War Recreation Congress

HE WHOLE recreation move-
ment is alert to its oppor—
tunities for services in the
war. The call for a \Var Rec-
reation Congress at Cincinnati has met with eager

response. Leaders in all phases of war recreation
service have welcomed a chance to discuss together
practical problems facing those responsible for
providing recreational services for all the people
in wartime.

Although only a short time has elapsed since the
advance notice of the War Recreation Congress
was sent out, 500 persons have said they are com-
ing, and more cards are arriving daily. Inquiries
from many sources are asking for further infor-
mation.

Planning for the \Var Recreation Congress has
become a cooperative undertaking in which many
have generously shared.

The topics chosen for group discussion are listed
below. Developments in the war may make changes
desirable. The Congress Committee is in close
touch with government and military leaders and
will adjust war recreation plans to meet new
conditions.

Topics for Group Discussion

How Are Recreation Departments Effectively Adapting
Their Services for the War Effort?

Recreation Service in Special Emergencies: Air Raids,
Evacuation, Epidemics, Blackouts

Helping Families of War Industry Workers to Adjust
to Community Life

What Special Problems Do Girls and Women Face
Because of the War?

First Session—Keeping Teen Age Girls Normal in
Wartime

Second Session—VVomen in Industry
Recreation Services for Industrial Workers

First Session—In the Com-
munity

Second Session — In the
Plant

Third Session — Special
Problems of Industrial
Recreation Leaders,

War Problems of Members of
Local Recreation Boards
(Two sessions)

Problems of Defense Recreation
Committees in Camp Com-
munities

Locally Financed and Operated

Recreation Programs for Men
in Uniform

218

Cincinnati, Ohio
September 28 — October 2

RAILROAD INFORMATION

In the opinion of the Office of Railroad
Transportation, it individuals and groups
desiring rail and bus transportation to and
from the War Recreation Congress will
adhere to suggestions of the carriers re-
garding day of departure, schedule and ac-
commodations, they will be able to work
out satisfactory arrangements. It wouId be
unreasonable. however. to expect accommo-
dations on days of heavy individual travel
or on days immediately preceding holidays.

Wartime Recreation in Towns

Under 8,000 POpulation

Wartime Recreation Problems in
Cities Under 30,000 Population

What Are the Effective Ways of
Telling the Story of Available Recreation Services to
All Engaged in War Service?

In What Ways Should Training Programs for Recreation
Leaders Be Adapted to Serve War Needs?

Boys’ and Girls' and Other Clubs in Wartime

Recreation for War Workers' Housing Projects

Building and Maintaining Financial Support for Recrea-
tion in \Vartime

Public and Private Agencies \Vorking Together in Meet-
ing Recreation Needs

How Can Churches Help to Meet War Recreation Needs
of the People?

Special Recreation Problems of Colored Groups in ‘War-
time
Long Range Planning for Recreation—National and Local

\Vartime Problems and Use of Municipal and County
Parks '

How Can Music Be More Effectively Used in Winning
the “far?

Adjustment in Sports Programs to Serve Wartime Needs
Effect of War (in Employed Recreation Personnel

Plays, Pageantry, Patriotic Demonstrations as an Aid to
Our War Effort

Meeting Normal Needs of Children in Wartime

What Are the Problems of Relationship Between Loca
Recreation Departments and National Emergency

Agencies ?-

Recruiting, Training, and Use of Volunteers for VVa
Recreation Service

Supplies and Equipment for War Recreation Servic
Priorities—Shortages and Substitutes

Home and Family Recreation in Wartime

War Recreation Problems in Rural Communities
First Session—Villages and Small Towns
Second Session—Open Country

In What Ways Can Organized Camping More Effec
tively Contribute to Winning the War?

At the live general se
sions of the War Recreatio
Congress authoritative lea
ers from the Federal go
ernmcnt, the armed force
industry, labor, and relate
fields will speak.

Further details of the W
Recreation Congress will b

announced in future issue
of RECREATION.

Cincinnati's Community Theater

HE UNION TERMINAL is one
Tof the show places of Cincin—

nati. The beautiful terraced
fountains, the intricate murals, and the other at-
tractions of the three million dollar railroad station
are now playing second fiddle t0 the Terminal’s
newest attraction—the Terminal Theater. The
Terminal Theater is an intimate, modernistic, air-
conditioned playhouse operated by The Actors
Guild, Cincinnati’s Community Theater. The Guild
now boasts that it not only has the only legitimate
theater in the world located in a railroad station,
but that it also has one of the most attractive
community playhouses in the country.

Each year thousands of Cin-
cinnatians see the outstand—
ing productions of
The Actors Guild.
Many patrons from
near-by towns ar-
rive by train, see the
performance, and
return home with-
out leaving the
Terminal Building.
Transients Waiting
over in Cincinnati
between trains lind
that the time passes
quickly while they
see productions of
Shaw, Coward, and
O’Neill. Since the
production dates are
usually announced
several weeks in ad—
vance, travelers
often arrange their
schedules to permit
stop—overs in Cin—
cinnati. Transients
leave their seat num-
ber and train time
with an usher who
watches the clock
and informs the
traveler when it is
time to leave.

 

By RAY MCGOLDRICK
Assistant Director

Scene from "Cradle Song"—-one of the

plays produced by The Actors Guild

Since a number of the Guild
players live outside of Cincinnati
and commute to rehearsals and
performances by train, it is not an unusual sight to
see an Indian Prince or Marie Antoinette in full
make—up and costume arrive on a Cincinnati-bound
train, ready to dash wildly for the taxi ramp, which
is also the stage entrance to the theater. On dress
rehearsal nights in the dining room at the Union
Terminal, it is not out of the ordinary to see a
large group of Tyrolean peasants or belles of the
Gay Nineties at a table in the corner. Last season
passengers on their way to the taxi stand were
amazed to see twenty nuns nonchalantly lounging
on the r“taxi ramp —— drinking
coco colas and smoking cigar—
ettes. It was the
cast of the “Cradle
Song,” taking a rest
period during a re-
hearsal!

Membership in
The Actors Guild is
open to all white
residents of Cincin-
nati and the sur-
rounding area.
Salesmen, stenogra-
phers, housewives,
teachers, jewelers,
nurses, social ser-
vice workers, ad-
vertising executives,
photographers, stu—
dents, artists, flor-
ists, architects, traf-
tic managers, physi-
cal education in-
structors, construc-
tion engineers, and
writers are but a
few of the many oc-
cupations which
have been repre-
sented in the Guild’s
membership. Debu-
tantes and factory
workers, teachers

219

220 C I NC I NNA TI’S COMMUNITY TH E A TE R ,

and their students, doctors and
their patients—all are on equal
footing in The Actors Guild.

The Actors Guild is not just
another Little Theater group
which presents a few plays each
year before an audience com-
posed of the friends of Mary Jones and Jack
Smith. The Guild depends entirely upon its box
oliice receipts for operating expenses. This neces-
sitates unerring choice both in plays and players,
and keeps the standard of production unusually
high.

Aside from the fact that no one in the Guild is
paid for his services, the organization is run on a
strictly professional basis. Rehearsals usually
cover a period of three weeks, and, since most of
the members are employed during the day time, all
regular rehearsals are held at night with added
rehearsals on Sunday .afternoons. Absence or tar-
diness at rehearsals, failure to learn lines in a rea-
sonable length of time, the use of alcohol before or
during a performance, or any other evidence of lack
of interest and c00peration are grounds for dismis-
sal from a cast. Almost without exception the Guild
members are as serious and earnest about their
hobby as if they were professional Broadway actors
and technicians.

There is no star system in the Guild, and any
efforts at personal exploitation are quickly
squelched. The leading player in one production
may paint scenery for the next production, take
the box office for the third, and prompt the fourth.

The purpose of The Actors Guild is to present
the best productions possible of the best plays
obtainable, and to provide an outlet for the crea-
tive ability of Cincinnatians. That the Guild has
also proved to be an excellent training ground for
the professional theater is evidenced in the num-
ber of young players who have graduated to pro-
fessional summer stock, Broadway, Hollywood,
and the radio.

Behind the story of this unusual theater is the
inspiration of one man—Owen Phillips, who be-
gan his career in the theater as a member of the
famous Stuart \Valker Stock Company in Cincin-
nati. \Vhen the \Valker Company disbanded,
young Phillips organized a company composed of
several of the young \Valker players and including
such now well-known names as Gertrude Michael
and Margaret Callahan. Known as The Actors
Guild, the new company toured the neighboring
towns which had formerly been visited by the

"Owen Phillips has built a small

amateur group into a nationally
recognized community theater—an
integral part otCincinnati's commu-

nity lite.”—Albert M cCleery and
Carl Click in Curtains Going Up.

touring units of the Walker
Company. After a successful
season, Broadway and Holly—
wood offers lured the young
players from Cincinnati, and
The Actors Guild was disbanded.

Owen Phillips felt that there
was a delinite need in Cincinnati for a real com-
munity theater, and despite the fact that several
such projects had failed there, and that most peo-
ple in Cincinnati were convinced that such a group
would never survive, after an absence of two years
in the East Mr. Phillips returned to Cincinnati to
reorganize the Guild.

\Vhile directing at the well-known summer play-
house, the Barter Theater in Abington, Virginia,
Mr. Phillips had found an interesting new play.
“Storm Child.” Arrangements were made to pre-
sent “Storm Child” as the initial production of
the new Actors Guild. Since the organization was
a new one, several of the young professional actors
from the Barter Theater were brought out to play
the leading roles, and the smaller roles were
played by local actors. “Storm Child,” which was
presented in the auditorium of the Cincinnati
\Vomans Club, was an immediate success. Three
other productions were presented on the first
season’s schedule.

For two seasons The Actors Guild presented a
four play schedule at the VVomans Club. A local
promoter decided to sponsor a production of the
Guild, and Earle Larimore, Ann Dunnigan, and
Therese W’ittler, three Broadway actors, were
brought to Cincinnati to appear in the pre-Broad—
way production of Lulu Vollmer’s “The Hill
Between."

Following “The Hill Between,” The Actors
Guild looked for a more centrally located theater.
They decided on the Terminal Theater, a modem
playhouse in the Union Terminal Station. Th
Terminal Theater, which had been originally .
newsreel theater, had a stage only large enough f0
a movie screen. After building a two foot exten
sion across the front of the theater and usin
blackouts instead of a curtain, the Guild openet
its third season with Irwin Shaw’s anti-war drama
“Bury the Dead l” Since the grOUp is a non—com
mercial venture, every penny of profit has bee
put into improvements on the theater or dramati
scholarships for deserving members.

The first cnrtain at the Terminal Theater wa
made of ineXpensive brown flannel, sewn by han
by members of the Guild. Only recently thi

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  

CINCINNATI’S COMMUNITY THEATER

makeshift curtain
was replaced by a
modern green ve-
lour curtain. Sev—
eral enlargements

of the stage have
increased the play-
ing space to 10’ x
22’ instead of the
original 2’ x 6’—
with an additional
alcove of six feet
in the center. The
first dressing
‘ rooms were made
- of beaver board in
the aisles of the
theater. However,
these were discard-
ed several seasons
a g o w h e n t h e
Guild rented two
large rooms over
the theater to be used for dressing rooms, re-
hearsal halls, and storage space.

The regular Guild schedule features eight pro-
ductions each season with a summer season of
from three to six additional productions. Each
season approximately forty full length plays are
presented in auditoriums, theaters, and halls
throughout the city and surrounding area for the
benefit of religious, educational, and social or-
ganizations. 'A one-act play group serves as a
training ground for actors and technicians, and
presents an average of twenty—five performances
each season for various local club meetings.

The schedule of Guild plays includes recent
Broadway successes, revivals of well-known plays,
the classics, and frequent productions of original
plays (including as often as possible the work of
local playwrights). Among the most successful
productions in the long list of Guild successes were
“Bury the Dead,” “Family Portrait,” “Two On
An Island,” “Our Town,” “The Trial of Mary
Dugan,” “Personal Appear-
ance,” “Ethan Frome,”
“Kiss the Boys Good—Bye,”
and “Museum Piece” (new).
Last season’s experimental
production of Elmer Rice’s
“Two On An Island” re—
ceived national publicity in
drama publications. The

"Cincinnati's Mayor James Garfield Stewart
issued a public proclamation in which he
lauded this community proiect and encour-
aged the citizens to attend the perform-
ances and participate in its activities. The
Guild's most valuable endorsement is the
genuine enthusiasm of the members them-
selves' who find profitable and enioyable
recreation in this world of make-believe.ll

221

 

The Actors Guild has also presented

the Hungarian comedy—"Seven Sisters" ‘

Guild production was staged with simple wooden
skeleton sets and the actors pantomimed the use
of properties.

The Guild’s most recent affiliation is with the
USO. The USO headquarters is located on the
grand concourse of the Union Terminal Station
directly across the rotunda from the Terminal
Theater. At each performance of a Guild play, all
seats which have not been sold by curtain time
are donated to the USO for distribution among
the transient soldiers and sailors. A plan is now
being worked out which would open all dress re-
hearsals to men in the near-by induction center at
Ft. Thomas, Kentucky, as well as to transient

soldiers.

Quoting from Carl Glick and Albert McCleery’s

history of the non-professional theater in America,

“Owen Phillips has built a
small amateur group into a
nationally recognized com-
munity theater—an integral
part of Cincinnati’s commu—
nity life.” Here in a railroad
station playhouse Cincinna-
tians are learning to .work
and play together..

 

Photo D.) Grac: E. Nelson

How the Museum Serves in Wartime

m .\ \ LAND basks
W in the bet ign sun-
shine ( f 1 eace, mu-
~eums are recognized as
unruurtant because they
preserve for all the in-
heritance a-r' *ht [13:1, they
1m I‘CLnt' man s knowledge
"‘1!" lug ff"~"&"(‘ll and through systematic channels
r 'u—wu: mi: «1*. and 1hey serve their communi-
it~ a~ re rum.» «enters as well
\\ llei- rht ra ll of “a: drums is abroad in the
.r .r'. '«r P9131.) assume an ext-n greater importance
WM. .4“ sh: .r masons for existing are grounded
‘:'--' " '-I ‘uulal Everything not fundamental

.1 . .v-I «Hi-mg uar effort, and museums’

, .. - ~- “minus become basic
w - w t H. .2 - npnn whit-h

w- - rapt-t. l:
;,. “l .4» an" ago lllt lint-
 -.. an - n? ‘~al~1rai Scitnt‘iu
at 't .r o ‘ ~ H.” 1r lb! put

HM .,F .r-v .:U '. l"- gI'MU' II:

mm ~ i'a~ hum

Education, recreation and treasures
are stressed in wartime as in peace

By CARLOS E. CUMMINGS, M. D.

Director
Buffalo Museum of Science

"The importance of hobbies in
bringing about mental relaxa-
tion is much underestimated.
The chief value of hobbies . . .
lies in their capacity to release
pent-up nervous

Dr. M. N. Walsh, Mayo Clinic.

the result of the service
that it prepared itself to
give. In the emergency
which now confronts its

Buffalo and the Niagara
Frontier—the country,
and the world, the insti-
tution housed in the Buffalo Museum of Science
by its creed of service is obligated to carry on to

immediate community—'

the best of its ability, to expand services in specific '

directions to meet war conditions, and in as many
ways as possible to cooperate with the govern~
ment and with every organization working toward
the common goal-——winning the war. To these ends
the Museum has dedicated itself.

First of all, surveying the sit-
uation and consulting with those
competent to advise, the danger in

common-sense plans laid for bal-
ancing dangers with duties.

tension." —

The Museum building in which i
the collections and activities are "

Buffalo has been calculated and I

l HOW THE MUSE UM SERVES IN WARTIME 223

 
   
 
   
    
  
  

housed has a skeleton steel frame and is fire-
proof, but some places in it are naturally safer
than others. Plans have been made to utilize
these, and the Staff has been trained, in the event
of necessity, to guide museum visitors to the safest
places within the building and to otherwise direct
visitors’ activities. First aid facilities and trained
Staff first aiders are available. The fire protec-
tion system has been amplified. Plans have been
1ade for storing certain treasures in the safest
parts of the building, while other collections will
be removed to even safer quarters if events justify
this step.

So as to contribute to man’s knowledge and to
spread that knowledge among as many people as
possible the Museum will carry on its present pro—
grams of research, exhibit, and education as ener-
getically as possible. This follows the example of

has never been so great and where museums are
kept open so far as is physically possible because
both in the First World War and during the pres-
ent conflict they have proved themselves important
to the people.

This is the era of science, and an understanding
of its developments and its potentialities, as well as
an understanding of our fellowmen, their cultures,
and the physical world in which we live are more
important than ever before.

Meeting the challenge to America, this Museum
plans to continue to keep its doors open to the
public on its regular basis. Week-day, Sunday,
and evening- hours make it possible for all who
desire to visit the Museum to do so, no matter
during what part of the twenty-four hours they
.work.

p Plans for new exhibits are going forward; per-
manent e'xhibits are stressed ; the continuous stream
Iof changing exhibits which pours through the Mu—

eum has included and will include further exhibits
icrtinent to the times. The character-building ac-
tivities designed for the children and young people
within the Museum gates take on a new signifi-
cance. Programs, clubs, and classes are the means
of presenting opportunities for informal education
to young and old alike. These will be keyed to
today’s living.

Recreation is one of the finest morale-builders
ever developed, and the whole community can
continue to look on the Museum as a center where
relaxation and recreation bring a welcome and es—
| sential break in what is likely to be a continuously
v strenuous life. Refreshment of the spirit through

our ally, Great Britain, where museum attendance ‘

such means is as necessary as is refreshment of
body through food and rest. This Museum, with
other museums, aims to do its part, with the sus-
tained help of its community, in fortifying the
spirit on which viCtory depends.

_The expansion of the Museum’s services to meet
war conditions began with the operation of the
Selective Service Law when the Museum opened
its doors to a local draft board. It has already
cooperated in many other ways by placing its spe-
cial facilities at the service of the country.

One of the outstanding services rendered by the
Buffalo Museum of Science in the war effort was
a free evacuee camper course for adults in the
fundamentals of outdoor living. The content of
the course, which was under the direction of Ells—
worth Jaeger, was as follows:

April 24—Outdoor Clothing, Packs, and Equip—
ment, by Ellsworth Jaeger, naturalist, artist,
and writer

May 1—— Camping Psychology—Living in the
Open Without Destroying the Countryside, by
Conrad E. Meinecke, Executive, Buffalo Coun-
cil of Boy Scouts

May 8—-——Fire-bui1ding; Selecting Firewood; Use
of Ax and Knife, by Sanford Hubbard, woods—

man

May 15—-—Outdoor Shelters, Beds, and Fireplaces,
by Dr. Harry W. Learner, Ex—President, New
York State Izaak Walton League, and Presi-
dent of Buffalo Chapter

May 22—Outdoor Sanitation and Health, by Dr.
Ralph D. Bates, District Sanitary Engineer,
New York State Department of Health

May 29—Use of National, State, County, and
City Parks, by Chauncey  Hamlin, President
of the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences and
Vice-Chairman of Allegany State Park Com—
mission; Ralph F. Pinner, Executive Secretary,
Allegany State Park Commission; Max D.
Farmer, Chairman of the Erie County Park
Commission; Roeder J. Kinkel, Landscape
Architect, Buffalo Park Department

June 5—Camp Cookery and Balanced Menus, by

Mrs. Matthew R. Barcellona, Buffalo Council
of Camp Fire Girls and American Red Cross
Nutrition Aide

June Ira—Nature and Woodlore Knowledge, by

Ellsworth Jaeger

June Ig—Campfire Entertainment for Morale, by

Ellsworth Jaeger

224

June 26—Review and Discussion; awarding of
certificates and armbands to those who attended
eight out of ten classes and one out of two over-
night camp-outs.

In connection with the course two week-end
camp-outs designed to provide experience in the
field were held at Camp Aloha, the camp of the
Buffalo Council of Camp Fire Girls. Small-scale
models of lean-to shelters, wedge tents, Fireplaces,
camp cranes. different types of campfires, ways of
using an ax, the making of camp brooms, benches,
wash stands, ovens, and other camp crafts were
available for inspection.

Early in May there was an enrollment of over
250 peOple in the course. \Vriting of a practical
demonstration in the use of axes which was held
in one of the parks at night, Mrs. Matthew R.
Barcellona of the Buffalo Museum of Science says:

“It was quite a sight to see in a city park a
ring of people surrounding the man who demon-
strated wood chopping with different types of axes
and even with a dinner plate. Following his
demonstration the group was divided into smaller
circles with the Aures boys who worked under
Dan Beard assisting Mr. Hubbard, and every-
body who wanted to practice what he had learned
had a chance to do so. There was a battle of the
sexes with a man and a girl trying to get through
opposite- ends of a log. There was the amusing
picture of a girl in city clothes, complete with veil
and gardenia, letting the chips fall where they
would. Even the park policeman added his touch
of humor. He circled and circled the group over
and over again. I think the least he expected was

an ax murder! No accidents occurred, fortunately,
but no one can say that the Museum is not far-
sighted ; we had 166 Red Cross first aid instructors
being trained in the Muse-
um at the same time and
could have managed I 66 ac-
cidents with ease. It was a
thrill for the onlooker to
shut his eyes and hear the
ring of the woodsman’s ax
—a sound that I dare say
had been foreign to the site
of Humboldt Park for well
over a hundred years 1”

Each week illustrated
miineographed sheets were
distributed to all members
of the classes: This material
was exceedingly practical,

"The possibility

modern way

HOW THE MUSEUM SERVES IN IVAR'I‘IME

of mass evacuation from
threatened cities should spur all leaders
and outdoor groups to get behind mass
education in the fundamentals of outdoor
living. We have become such slaves to our
of life that hundreds ot-thous-
ands of city dwellers today would be help-
less if they were forced from their homes
into the open country. One of the wisest
preparations that Americans can undertake
today is to learn how to take care of them-
selves if they are temporarily obliged to
live in the open. Such a program of edu-
cation in outdoor living should be basic in
the training of all Americans at war or
in peace."—-Ellsworth Jaeger in his In-
troduction to the Evacuee Camper Course.

    
  
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
  
    
  
   

containing in addition to the informational ma
terial on outdoor clothing, packs, and equipment,
the construction of shelters and similar subjects
diagrams to illustrate the text, and lists of book
on various phases of camping. This material i
available at 50 cents a copy for anyone desiring it.
Further information may be secured from Mrs.
Barcellona, Buffalo Museum of Science, Hum-
boldt Park, Buffalo, New York.

The Museum will continue to undertake specia
jobs requested of it and its Staff and will seek an
welcome every opportunity to do its bit.

The Museum serves in wartime as in peace.

NOTE: Material in this article has been taken fro
Hobbies, the magazine of the Buffalo Museum of Scienc
and other literature issued by the Museum.

A second interesting report on the organizatim
of recreational leadership courses having to d
with evacuees has come from the Los Angeles
California, Y.\V.C.A. which, in an effort to me
a pressing emergency, set up courses in rec—
reational leadership and made them available t
all Japanese when their ultimate evacuation wa
announced. It was believed that courses of thi
nature would help make adjustment easier no
only for future evacuees but for those with who
they would be thrown. The training progra
covered possibilities in all the various fields t
recreation and the leader's specific responsibility i
each. The first session provided an opportunit
for the observation by small groups of metho
used in teaching active games, sports, social mi.
ers, folk dancing and other forms of recreati
The second session was concerned with such a
tivities as rhythm bands and song leadership, whi
the third had to do with social hygiene. Ment
health and arts zfnd cr
had been scheduled as s
jects in which instruct'
was to be given, but so
of the Japanese participai
in the courses were ev
ated before they were a
to take advantage of t
final sessions. Funds h.
been appropriated by t
National Board of the Y. ‘
C.A.’s for educational a
recreational work with J
panese women and gi
evacuted to areas establish
by the government.

A Park Department Enlists for the War

By WILLIAM M. MULLEN

Director of Recreation
Boston Park Department

5 HEADQUARTERS of the Army and Navy Ser—

A vice Bureaus of the First Corps Area, con—

sisting of all the New England states and

part of New York, Boston faces the problem of

providing recreation for large numbers of service

men many of whom request the opportunity of
taking part in athletic sports.

It was not long after the establishment of the
First Corps Area that the Recreation Division
found itself in the midst of an all-round program
for service men. Lieutenant Commander Carl
Paul of the First Naval District and Lieutenant
Colonel John  Donovan of the Army First Corps
Area met with Mayor Maurice  Tobin and Park
Commissioner William P. Long to plan the ser—
vice, The Mayor, young and sports-minded, soon
issued orders for an all—out effort which would
include personnel, equipment, and all the facilities
which the city had to offer.

' Instructors from the Park Department visited
‘ the Boston harbor defense forts, set up programs,
’ and marked out areas. Basketball, boxing, wrestl-

ing, sport nights, sport pictures, and baseball ‘

leagues are all now a part of the program under
the auspices of the Park Department. Baseball
I and softball games have been planned for the vari-
ous naval antiaircraft units. Contests between
larger posts outside Boston have been arranged
for the service men when they are visiting the city.
Sports ofhcials have operated in all areas, schedul-
ing and officiating in all forms of sports. The Park
Department is now in the process of conducting

(Continued on page 258)

The Recreation Division of the Boston
Park Department has so effectively or-
ganized its program for service men
that in many instances a two hours'
notification by telephone is all that
is necessary for setting up an eve-
ning of sports, music or dancing for
a group planning a trip into Boston.

Service men everywhere are asking: "Where
can we go? What can we do?" And cities
everywhere are providing the answers.

 

Courtesy St. Louis, ltIo” Post-Dispatch

225

Pan-American Relationships

on the

Memphis Playgrounds

first \Vorld \Var that a

group of small girls in
white pinafores and sun-
bonnets marched in an
Armistice Day parade behind the
banner—

"When children's friendships are world-wide
New Nations will be glorified

Let child love child and strife will cease
Disarm the heart —- for that is Peace"

Thus the “good neighbor” policy became a by-
word of the Recreation Department of the Mem-
phis Park Commission.

The staff of each playground and community
center sought, and secured, the complete coopera—
tion of neighborhood group organizations for each
undertaking. Playground advisory committees,
junior group leaders, as well as numerous other in-
dividuals banded together to “put over” the an-
nual Cotton Carnival children’s parade and ball,
the playground Fourth of July celebrations, the
big Hallowe’en frolics, “The Spirit of Christmas
Parade,” the annual bunny rabbit hunts at Easter
time and the big playground festival in August.

The years rolled on. The little girls who first
formed childish friendships on the playgrounds
grew up and brought small sons and daughters to
play with neighbors’ children in the sandbox while
they themselves discussed old times and planned
big things for the unity of the community and the
playground in general.

IT was shortly after the

Playground Themes

For the past twelve years the Memphis play-
grounds have had a theme for
the summer project which
has been carried out in all
athletics, creative play, dances,
games, songs and programs
during the season.

In 1941, when fifty-one
years of peace, friendship and
solidarity of the twenty-one
Pan-American republics was

226

For the children of the Memphis
playgrounds, Pan-Americanism had

its beginning a long time ago

By MINNIE WAGNER

Superintendent of Recreation
Memphis, Tennessee

There are thirty-two playgrounds in the
city of Memphis' Tennessee, ten of them
for Negroes. Most of these playgrounds
have wading pools, and practically all of
them are the proud possessors of mas-
cots whieh range from owls to goats! The
theme which will be carried out this sum-
mer at all of the play centers is "Flags
of Freedom,’I and each playground will
represent one of the United Nations.

being celebrated, an inten-
sive program of “South of
the Border” activities was
deve10ped by the Recrea-
tion Department.

In April, a short pageant,
“Democracy on the Playgrounds,”
was presented by a group of chil-
dren at various PTA and civi
programs. The pageant presente
“Mother Memphis” working on a quilt patterne

   
  
   
 
 
  
    
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  

co
:1"
m
"t
a)
3
pa
“0
0
H1
('0'
:3"
(b
n
:2.
\<
O
H".
(b
B
’U
E‘
m
U)
:3"
(b
m
/
"52.
E.’
5
(D
D.

that each playground constitutes a small “family'
united in play, thus bringing out the idea of child-
hood democracy. As Mother Memphis fell asl
over her quilting, a playground director appeare
and issued “The Call of the Playground,” by A
S. Shelton. She was followed by groups of hap
dancing children from all countries who joined '
games and songs, led by the Playground Saf
Council. The pageant ended with the “Playgroun
Parade,” as all joined in a circle around the Unit
States flag, recited the pledge of allegiance, a
went off singing.

This introductory program was followed by t

summer playground program dedicated to —

“American children both North and South
Who have a heritage golden and gay

For here the Goddess of Liberty

Smiles and—we are blessed with Play"

Elise Hart Beauchamp, Memphis

Each playground represented a Pan-Ameri
country in its various activities during the sum
season. With “Unity Strengthens Amity” as
motto, the children set out to show the peOple
Memphis that “Preside
Roosevelt believes that
essential qualities of a t
Pan-Americanism must be
same as those which co
tute a good neighbor, na
mutual understanding,
through such understandi
a sympathetic appreciation

the other’s point of view.”
(Continued on page 257)

. Seven Years Old

In so many ways children contribute
happiness to the life of a household.
Their joys and their sorrows are the
pivot around which the life of the
home revolves. Each has his own de-
lightful characteristics. The two
articles which are reprinted here de-
pict life with the seven-year-old.

 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
   
  

ONSIEUR DION NE will get his wish at last. He
is to have the Quintuplets at home with
him: Yvonne, Annette, Cecile, Emilie and
Iarie, all five. After seven years of entrusting
hem to the kindly care of Dr. Dafoe and the gov-
rnment, he shoulders the responsibility and pre-
ares to welcome them to the parental hearth.
here they will settle down to take pot luck with
he family and lead the lives of Ordinary children.

The five will bring a fortune with them, thanks
0 the Guardians, the unique Authority that has
nanaged their affairs since the year of their birth.
apa Dionne should have no difficulty in making
nds meet. Even so, there are aspects of his un-
ertaking that provoke anxious speculation.

\Vhen Papa Dionne opens his door to let in five
even-year-olds at one swoop, he may be letting
1imse1f in as well. Does he know what lies ahead
f him? The five, we are told, are normal chil—

. ren; they vary in personality and ability, as any
l ve children might, yet they are normal. That is

vhat gives point to the question.

  
   
 
   
  
 

' Life with Daughter. One normal seven-year-old
aughter is a houseful, as any American father
’ill testify. She is the center of the domestic sys-
em. Around her the parents revolve as vassal
lanets'.

She sets their rising hour at dewy dawn. She
as not outgrown her babyhood habit of starting
1e day with the bluejays, and besides, she attends
chool now, and has to be ready when one Joan,
lso aged seven, comes by. Later on, after a year or

'0, she won’t want to get up before noon; but
ot yet.

She is equally disdainful of her bed at the other
- d of the day. To get her into it requires a story,
1‘ panda bear, her rag doll, three drinks and a
ight lamp, and still she won’t subside. A boy

 

child might‘be cowed into quiescence, but not a
girl child.

Questions at Bedtime. She holds a song recital,
with encores. She desires to converse. May she
get up a minute and ’phone Joan? May she wear
her blue dress tomorrow? What is the kitten
doing? Who was that at the door? Silent and
subdued are the evenings of the parents of a seven-
year-old. Not until Mr. Swing’s hour is it safe to
play the radio—~and Mr. Swing must barely whis-
per, at that.

Parental life was not thus in the long ago. It
may not be thus in Callander, even in this liberal
day. The Ontario father may still have a will of
his own. Canadian children may not have heard
of the New Freedom. One feels apprehensive,
nevertheless, for Papa Dionne, with five seven-
year—olds in the house, all of them girls.

Aspects of Age 7. Life in a house with a seven-
year-old is always a bit risky. What will it be
in the Dionne home, with possibly five doll cradles
parked on the stairs any dark night? An agile
father, or, for that matter, a fairly well-preserved
grandfather, can walk into one such man-trap and
survive. But after five of them, could there be
much hope?

The little strangers have had exceptional train-
ing in orderliness. Still an experienced parent
wonders whether their father is prepared to find
five snow-suits barricading the front hall. And has

(Continued onpage 252)

007

Th ree-Sided Play Areas

By P. ELLWOOD ALLEN
National Recreation Association

HE DESIGN and subsequent

deveIOpment of any play

area is an individual prob-
lem. Rarely do we find two plots alike. There are
wide variations in size, shape, natural features,
and topography. Most play areas conform to the
rectangular type, but quite frequently we are asked
to utilize a triangular piece of property for play
purposes. This presents an interesting problem in
design.

The plan presented here was prepared for a
triangular piece of property of approximately
eleven acres in the City of Bethlehem, Pennsyl-
vania, designed for a playground with special

oo——uJ‘+-.- -. ..

I'.
I

. C
I

I -0
I -
I

.-

' O.
. u
I.
I

  

"'.--'--.-.-|-;-- - --

 

NATIONAL

228

:wmt‘y‘ PLAYGWUN

BETH LEHET’l

RECREATION
NEW YORK CITY

 

   
   
     
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
    
 
     

facilities for older children. Th
land is comparatively level an
the high density of the neigh
borhood population is in the south. This informa
tion is important in order that the shelter huildi
and control shall be located at the point in th
property nearest to the homes of pe0ple usingT tl
area. The shelter building is provided with toil
facilities for girls and boys, a director’s office,
small activity room, and space for storage an
supplies. On the axis of the shelter in the rear,
wading pool, rectangular in shape, sixty feet 101
and thirty feet wide, has been introduced. \Vhe
not used for wading purposes this can be converte

    
   

   

\f

PENN

ASSOCIATION~

 

         
   

I
It. I. u |M

JCALE. 0F

    

 

THREE-SIDED PLAY AREAS 229

into a game court for

paddle tennis, volleyball,

badminton, and similar
games.

The preschool area is
located directly east of
the pool and near the
shelter. This location pro-
vides easy access to the
pool and the shelter, the
only two points of con-
tact with older children.
It should be equipped
with pieces of junior ap-
paratus such as a jungle-
gym, a slide, see-saws,
and swings. In a shaded
portion there should also
be the popular sand box.
Benches for mothers
should be introduced.

On the west side of the
pool a lawn area has been
set aside for crafts and
outdoor games. This sec-
tion is also in close prox-
imity to the shelter so
I that supplies need not be

carried any great dis-

tance. The landscape
treatment about these features has been designed
to create a park—like and pleasing appearance.

On the -west side of the triangle a section has
been designed as an apparatus area for older chil-
dren. Directly north of this, a hard surface area
seventy feet wide and one hundred and fifty feet
long provides opportunity for multiple-use activi—
ties. Painted on the surface are courts for volley-
ball, paddle tennis, badminton and shuffleboard.
By the use of portable standards, the entire area
can be used for roller skating and for other types
of group activities. Two regulation tennis courts
are provided directly north of the multiple-use
area and the tennis courts, multiple-use area and
section for apparatus are completely enclosed by a
chain link fence. These facilities are so arranged
as to eliminate duplication in fencing whenever
possible.

l The area also provides a softball diamond for
children with a forty-five foot baseline, an area
for low organized games, and a field for touch
football and soccer. In order to provide activities
for youth and adults in the area a regulation soft-

   

GEORG-rt 5"!"

al————\

     

IYISTIHG

   
  
 

PA! I.

  

STUDY- 7012- DEVELOPMENT- or-
PEPKI HS- SPRI H G- SQUAEE'

CITY or BALTIHOPL
vnszva 12cm.—

COMMISSIOH- OH- CITY'PLAH'

NATIONAL ‘nECJaEATIOH - ASSOCIATIOH.
NEW YORK CITY

      
 

 
 

   
    

  
   

       
 

a
m u :1 Ian-u u. u-

5:54“

SCALE O‘F TEET

  

    

Vi-.- ..

ball diamond with a cage backstop has been in-
troduced together with a soccer field, a battery of

.horseshoe pits, and a double handball court. The

entire area has been planted to produce a pleasing
appearance.

It can be readily seen from a study of this pro—
posed layout that the three-sided play area pre-
sents a unique problem in design. A triangular
piece of_property is far from ideal for play pur—
poses not only from the standpoint of economical
and efficient utilization but such properties present
traflic problems that are difficult of control at each
point of the triangle. We have traflic approaching
from two sides, converging usually at the point
where children cross. In the particular Bethlehem
plot the area is of sufficient size to provide ade-
quate facilities.

The majority of triangular properties available
for recreation in our municipalities are much

smaller in size and therefore less desirable for

play purposes. Baltimore offers an excellent ex-

ample of this in Perkins Spring Square. This par~

(Continued on page 258)

Good Housekeeping in Recreation

FEW YEARS AGO lead-
A ers in the industrial

held became aware
of the great saving that
could be effected by the
partial elimination of carelessness
from various plants. Studies were
made of materials wasted because
of thoughtlessness on the part of
workmen and loss of manpower
due to injuries. A systematic
analysis of conditions soon brought to light the
necessity for the three E’s of safety: engineering;
enforcement; and education. Education has been,
and always will be, the longest in its development
because any change in the individual worker must
be of a continuous nature subject to change when—
ever his life is affected by his ever—changing en-
vironment.

Leaders in industry, seeking an all inclusive
term for conditions about a well ordered factory,
decided upon “good housekeeping.” The term
they borrowed from the home was well under-
stood by labor and in a short time industry began
to reap results both of a social and economic
nature.

Orderliness. Good housekeeping implies order-
liness. In recreation we may apply orderliness to
our own specific situation and without doubt get
results comparable to those attained by an indus-
trial plant. Accidents may be prevented by the
prpper placing of equipment and materials and by
having a place for everything and everything in
its place, when equipment is not in active use.
This thought is applicable to the contents of a
fishing tackle kit, or in a much broader sense, to
the location of equipment in a large field house.

It is true that many directors are very meticu-
lous about offices, storage rooms, and play centers,
yet they permit bicycles to be strewn at random
around the outside of buildings and grounds.
Orderly rows of parked bicycles are just one ex-
ample of carefulness in the good housekeeping
necessary to recreation activities.

Cleanliness. Good housekeeping implies atten-
tion to cleanliness. A good home, a good factory,
or a progressive play center must present a re-
spectable appearance at all times. Playgrounds and

230

Orderliness, cleanliness, moderniza-
tion, cooperation are all essential

to good housekeeping in recreation

By RUSSELL COFFEY
Research Fellow
Center for Safety Education
New York University

recreation centers froi
the very nature of t '

use must be clean to In
attractive. Good housn»
keepers in the home clu
house seasonally, and in industr

during inventories, a thoroJ
check is made for accumulated d'!
that might cause disease, fire, s

accidents to workers.

Modernizing. Good housekeepirg
in the home and industry means modernizing with,
and sometimes in advance of, the changing times:
Homes and factories renew good appearance and
utility through papering, painting, and sometimes
remodeling. In recreation the alert leader mat
anticipate needed changes and have plans an
specifications ready when boards meet. There . -
very few boards willing to vote funds for repel
unless full details are given. Details including a I
statistics summarized from accident reports .
valuable when the elimination of any recreatio b
hazard is contemplated. Present statistics glea *u
from accident reports in graphic form, if possi -
and the more simple the graph the greater will . -
your chances of getting an appropriation.

    

The Way of the Happy Family. Good houseker
ing in the home not only means orderliness, clean
liness, modernizing to meet changing conditi
but in a measure it embodies the spirit of t
happy family. The first three of these basic c0
cepts of the family have been well copied by '
dustry and the fourth is gradually being develo ‘ ..
The way of the happy family is truly symbolic ..
the American way of life and as such must -
necessity be carried into everything we do. It
in recreation that leaders have a golden oppor
tunity to exemplify what is meant by participat'
sharing, and respect for the rights of others. Th _
are basic concepts so greatly needed through
the world, and practice in doing, practice in livi -
democratically can be fostered in our gymnasium
play centers, and recreation halls.

The prevention of serious accidents will u a
much to increase the happiness to be derived frei
play. As a phase of good housekeeping this need-
sitates careful attention to details, the study of ac—

( C onlinued on page 253)

Recreation

at
Pine Camp

of the 4th Armored

Division, is situated
eight miles east of Wa-
tertown, New York, and
seventy miles north of
Utica. The camp, com-
prising 100,000 acres, is
one of the newest and
largest in the United
States, and is in reality
a city by itself, with
buildings extending
along a three mile front.
Housing facilities in—
clude 264 barracks, 27
officers’ quarters, 
mess balls, 41 hOSpital
buildings, 116 warehouses, 10
post exchange buildings, two
theaters, a service club, a guest
house, six chapels, a laundry,
a bakery, fire stations, a sports
arena (now under construc-
tion), and structures necessary
to maintain and service 2,500
vehicles.

The Post Morale Office, in

PINE CAMP, the home

cooperation with the 4th Armored Division Morale
staff, has the responsibility of sponsoring and ad-
ministering morale activities in this soldier city.
Its staff includes the post morale officer, an ath-
letic and recreation officer, and a theater officer,
along with several enlisted personnel. The 4th
Armored Division Morale staff, until the late fall of
1941, included only one officer, assigned to the staff
of the Commanding General. The staff was then
supplemented to include a morale officer and his
assistant, an athletic officer and a recreation of-

 

By LT. FRED COOMBS

L’r. Coombs. who was formerly Assisi-
anf Superinfendenf of Recreafion at
Greenwich. Connecficuf. on enfering
fhe Army was assigned ’ro fhe Posf
Morale Office at Pine Camp. He is
now in Company E. 2nd S’rudenf Train-
ing Regimen’r. F'l'. Benning. Georgia.

"Treed"—no+ by fhe
enemy. bu’r by +heir
desire for a "pre-
ferred" posifion a+
the "Hour of Charm"
radio broadcasf by
General Electric

ficer. These officers have
now been reassigned to
troop duty.

During the spring and
summer months of 1941,
each of the eighteen
separate military units
in Pine Camp was en-
couraged to appoint a
morale officer who
would be specifically
charged with the admin-
istration of recreation
and welfare activities
within his particular or-
ganization. The appoint-
ments were, in the ma-
jority of cases, on a
part-time basis. On October
10, 1941 the War Department
authorized the selection of one
full-time officer as recreation
officer in all regiments, sepa—
rate battalions or analogous
organizations. Such action per-
mits the various commanding
officers to assign recreation of-
ficers who are Specially qualified

for this kind of work, thereby developing a- plan-
ned program of activities adapted to training, lo—
cation and composition of the command.

The post and division morale staffs, together
with the moral officers of each unit, meet each
Saturday morning, and at this time all morale ac-
tivities to be sponsored are planned and the admin-
istrative details prepared. The Federal Security
Agency representative, together with the USO
representatives, is invited on occasion to meet with
this group and discuss plans pertaining to their

231

232 RECREATION AT PINE CAMP

program. These weekly meetings have proved to
be invaluable as a clearing house for all programs
sponsored within the camp and those conducted
outside the camp by the civilian defense commit-
tees. Community groups have always been as-
sured prompt cooperation and proper supervision
of programs from military authorities. The morale
officers of Pine Camp have been particularly care-
ful in the supervision of all programs conducted
within the camp, and especially those sponsored
by civilians.

The first assignment of the Post Morale Ofiice
was to make a study of recreation facilities, and
from this information draw up a lay-out map in-
dicating the location of all outdoor facilities. This
map included the following facilities: 65 softball
diamonds, 80 volleyball courts, 19 hard-surface
volleyball courts, I 3 hard—surface tennis courts, 19
hard-surface basketball courts, four baseball dia-
monds, two football fields, an archery range, a
hard—surface roller skating area to serve also for
outdoor dancing and ice skating, 160 horseshoe
courts, a boxing arena, an amphitheater, an en-
listed men’s park, an oflicers’ park, a convalescent
park, a quarter-mile cinder track, and the develop-

boxing, tennis, golf and horseshoes. The varia-
tion of military units seems to have had little
bearing on participation and the ability of unit
teams to compete with each other on the same
skill basis.

The boxing tournament was perhaps the most
spectacular of all the athletic events. The tourna-
ment was scheduled over a period of seven eve-
nings, and the bouts were witnessed by enthusi-
astic crowds of from four to seven thousand per-
sons. The final bouts of the boxing champion-
ships were refereed by Lou Ambers, former
world’s lightweight champion.

Appropriate awards were presented to teams
and individuals who were winners and runners-
up in the summer athletic tournaments. These
awards were secured through the efforts of the
VVatertown Defense Committee. The Citizens
Committee for the Army and Navy, Inc., was in-
strumental in securing the services of James 
Braddock, former world's heavyweight champion,
who visited Pine Camp and presented the awards
at a “Night of Champions” program, in conjunc-
tion with the 4th Armored Division and the Post
staffs.

In addition to the sports con-
ducted on a tournament basis, other
sponsored summer athletic activi-

A view of one of
have been com
Committee for
defense commi

ment of natural swimming facilities in the camp.
The activity program at Pine Camp aims at
providing wholesome recreation“ and welfare ac-

tivities that contribute to the building of the
physical and mental well-being of the soldier.
This program has necessarily been wide in
scope in the attempt to provide a large num-
ber of activities suited to the varied interests

of 1 5,000 soldiers.

Athletics and Sports

Of all soldiers’ recreation activities, athletics
are undoubtedly the most popular, and to
comply with this interest an extensive pro-
gram was conducted. A series of athletic tour-
naments was held during the summer of 1941,
and a point system was adopted in order to
encourage the individual units to enter teams
in all sports. Points were awarded to units
for entering teams in each athletic tourna-
ment, and additional points were given for
placing in each event. The military unit
amassing the greatest number of points was
awarded a championship trophy. This point
system was most effective in creating en-
thusiasm among the individual military
units. Pine Camp champions were crowned
in swimming, softball, baseball, volleyball,

 

RECREATION AT PINE CAMP 233

ties included Pine Camp golf and tennis teams, a
swimming meet and a track meet. Swimming was
very popular, and the Buck Creek Park (located
on the reservation) includes not only a swimming
area, but picnic tables,- fireplaces, softball and
horseshoe facilities. This park was in constant
demand throughout the summer. The American
Red Cross assisted with a life saving institute and
the training of a staff of fifty volunteer life guards.
These life guards served at Buck Creek and were
also assigned to the beaches surrounding Pine
Camp. As a result of this very thorough water
safety program, no fatal accidents occurred during
the summer season.

During the fall touch football and soccer leagues
were featured, intramural games being sponsored
in all organizations. A Pine Camp football team
took the field in October after receiving their en-
tire equipment from such generous organizations
as the Citizens Committee for the Army and
Navy Inc., the New York Football Giants and
Columbia University. With the football equip-
ment now available, it is anticipated that a full
schedule of games will be played on the Post field

next season, thereby giving the

intramural basketball leagues were organized in
each of the military units. Games were played in
the recreation buildings and a camp regimental
league was scheduled to start during February.
At the present time interregimental games and
practice sessions are conducted in the New York
State Armory, school gymnasiums, the Knights of
Columbus building and the Y.M.C.A. Several

teams have entered the Watertown Recreation De-
partment League.

W inter sports play an important role at Pine
Camp. Facilities under construction include a ski
area adjacent to the barracks with novice, inter-
mediate and senior ski runs, a ski tow and a to-
boggan slide. A shelter house will be situated in
this area to provide for the checking out of ski and
toboggan equipment. A skating area located in
the center of the camp will have a regulation
hockey rink and a large general skating area with
a quarter-mile speed skating track. A shelter
house will be located here for the comfort of skiers
and the checking out of equipment. These two
winter sports areas have been so located that they
may be illuminated after dark thereby providing
night skiing and skating.

soldiers an opportunity to witness
the games.

With the approach of winter,

Since the beginning of a recreation program at
Pine Camp, a number of essential facilities have
been added. The Pine Camp amphitheater,

seating 5,000 people, was established in the
center of the camp with a thirty feet square
illuminated stage. The amphitheater was used
extensively during the summer months for
various types of entertainments sponsored by
soldier and civilian groups. The General
Electric radio program featuring Phil Spitalny
and the “Hour of Charm” presented the first
entertainment program from the amphitheater
stage. The program was well received by the

, soldiers, as indicated by the attendance of

approximately 12,000 spectators. Other en-
tertainment features during the summer in-
cluded bi-weekly radio broadcasts over local
stations. These programs were Sponsored en-
tirely by individual military units. Band con-
certs were presented weekly. The Citizens Com-
mittee for the Army and Navy Inc., presented
a series of mobile vaudeville units that visited
the camp periodically during the summer. At—
tendance at all of these performances averaged
between three and ten thousand persons.
Indoor Facilities

Indoor facilities at Pine Camp have also

been greatly expanded in the renovation of ten

ee dayrooms which
d by the Citizens
NavyI Inc.I civilian
ernal organizations

 

234 RECREATION AT PINE CAMP

successful, and were con-
tinued throughout the
summer and early fall.
The music for the ma-
jority of soldier dances is
provided by the organized
regimental soldier bands.
All dances are properly
supervised 'and rules gov-
erning the selection and
inviting of girls have been
made uniform by the
agencies Sponsoring the
parties. Transportation
of soldiers to and from
all dances is provided by
the unit receiving the in-
vitation, and the morale
officer is directly respon-
sible for the supervision
of the group. One of the most successful of these
dances was the Christmas Dance sponsored by the
\Vatertown USO at the New York State Armory.

To this party were invited 500 soldiers and 400

girls. The. Armory was elaborately decorated, two

bands played continuously for the dancing, and

refreshments were served.

Off the Post Activities

In an effort to make the enlisted men consider
themselves as a very welcome part of the commu-
nity, many individual townspeople and civilian
organizations embarked upon a program of invit-
ing soldiers singly or in groups directly into their
homes. There was a difference of opinion as to
which was the most enjoyable way to entertain
soldiers—as individuals or in groups. From the
experience of the Post Morale Ofiice, it would
appear that invitations were most readily accepted
when soldiers were invited in groups rather than
as individuals. The Jefferson County Farm and
Home Bureau has been particularly active in en-
couraging its member grange organizations to en-
tertain soldiers at dinner parties either in their
grange halls or in their homes. On one particular
Sunday 369 soldiers were invited to dinner with
225 civilians serving as hosts.

Keeping Them Informed

From the very beginning the Post Morale Of-
fice was aware of the problem of properly publi-
cizing the recreation programs sponsored on and
off the post. W'eekly recreation bulletins were is-

 

Seven thousand cheering soldiers—
spectators at the Pine Camp boxing
finals held in the outdoor arena

sued to-inform the 15,000 soldiers at Pine Camp
of these activities, and arrangements were made
with local broadcasting stations for daily announce-
ments of morale activities. However, the bulletin
and radio announcements, because of their limited
nature, could not provide adequate publicity with
reference to all the events being conducted for the
military personnel." The next step was the publica-
tion of the Pine Camp N eras, an eight page paper
issued by a civilian printer, with the news pro-
vided by the Post Morale Office newspaper staff.
Ten thousand copies of this newspaper were dis-
tributed free of charge to the soldier personnel.
Features of the paper include an eight page comic
section, a serial story, several syndicated columns,
and a camp schedule of coming events along with
the USO activity calendar. This newspaper is
gradually informing the entire camp of the many
activities conducted by the morale officers, the
USO, the civilian defense recreation committees,
and the many services provided by individual
civilians t0 the soldiers of Pine Camp. Not only
does the newspaper serve as a means of informing
the soldiers of the various activities being spon-
sored, but in addition it is often forwarded to par-
ents of soldiers, thus acquainting them most in-

timately with the lives of their sons as soldiers at
Pine Camp.

 

RECREATION AT PINE CAMP 235

recreation halls with basketball backboards in
order that intramural leagues may be organized.
Permission to use the New York State Armory in
W'atertown, gymnasiums in the schools of near-by
communities, and the Y.M‘.C.A. may be arranged
through the Post Morale Office. Since_ February
28, 1942 the new Pine Camp sports arena has been
available. These indoor facilities are adequate for
the needs and requirements of morale and athletic
oflicers. Other recreation facilities not available on
the reservation have been readily secured upon
request in surrounding communities. The Water-
town Recreation Commission and other commu—
nity agencies have been particularly cooperative in
granting permission to use swimming pools, ball
diamonds, gymnasiums, bowling alleys, ski runs
and other recreational and athletic equipment.

Within the camp itself, ninety-three dayrooms
have been constructed. The purpose of the day-
room is to serve primarily as a lounge and club
room with provision for writing, a small
library, ping-pong or pool tables, and a
radio and piano to provide opportunities
for musical entertainment. The Army,
however, provided no funds for the fur-
nishing of these buildings. The Post
Morale Office therefore contacted civil—
ian defense committees and fraternal or-
ganizations in surrounding cities and re—
quested that they sponsor a drive for the
collection of dayroom furniture. The response of
these agencies was most enthusiastic, and within a
relatively short period van loads of repaired and
revarnished furniture of all descriptions were arriv-
ing at the Post Morale Office for distribution. The
Citizens Committee for the Army and Navy Inc.,
donated over two hundred Adirondack chairs,
floor and wall lamps, pictures and bookcases. The
New York Telephone Company contributed some
seven tons of excellent library books. Other agen-
cies collected pianos, phonographs, radios, records,
smoking stands, tables, desks, chairs, divans, books
and magazines. Within a period of two months all
of the dayrooms at Pine Camp had been comfort-
ably furnished by civilian agencies at no expense
to the government.

The modern Pine Camp Service Club and Guest
House also serve an important function in the en-
tertainment of soldiers and the providing of ac-‘
commodations for visiting friends and relatives of
soldiers. The Service Club possesses a large and
attractive hall which is used for dances, radio
broadcasts, musical entertainments, lectures and

 

other types of leisure activities. The club also
houses the library, with its 5,000 volumes, which
loans out over 2,000 books each month. Another
important facility of the Service Club is the cafe-
teria, which serves the enlisted personnel and
their guests anything from ice cream sodas to full
course dinners at very moderate prices.

The Service Club is, in reality, the meeting
place of the soldiers because of its many attractive
facilities and the informal programs which are
continuously being sponsored. The hostesses are
always available to friends and relatives of soldiers,
giving them information as to the location of the
men they seek, or helping them to make reserva-
tions at the Guest House for lodgings. The host-
esses possess complete information on all camp
activities, the facilities open for visitors, camp reg-
ulations, religious services, athletic and social ac-
tivities, bus and rail transportation schedules.
The series of semi—weekly dances held at the
Service Club on successive Monday and
Thursday evenings has been very popu-
lar. Dancing partners were secured
through the cooperative efforts of the
W atertown and Carthage Defense Rec-
reation Committees.

The Guest House was situated within
the camp in order to provide convenient
and comfortable lodging facilities for
friends and relatives of soldiers who may
be visiting the camp. The Guest House and the
Service Club, so often frequented by visitors at
the camp, are highly important in the establish-
ment of good public relations between the mili-
tary authorities and the civilian guests.

Two theaters, advantageously located for soldiers
within the camp, serve capacity audiences at two
shows each evening. The Army Motion Picture
Service returns a percentage of the box ofhce re-
ceipts received at both camp theaters to the morale
offices.

Dances

In addition to the dances sponsored in the Ser-
vice Club, other dances are held by the various
USO groups and by the civilian agencies in sur-
rounding communities. The Clayton, New York,
Defense Recreation Committee inaugurated the
idea of inviting several hundred soldiers to visit
their town. Various residents volunteered to pro—
vide refreshments, after which the guests were in-
vited to a block dance. These affairs were highly

236 RECREATION AT PINE CAMP

Drafting Talent

In such a large population as exists at Pine
Camp there is naturally to be found an assortment
of varied talents. Through the classification card
file, unit morale officers were easily able to deter-
mine the musical, dramatic and art abilities in their
respective organizations. The musicians were re-
quested to send home for their instruments. Unit
bands were organized and furnished with music
for soldier dances and general musical entertain-
ments. Soldier artists and cartoonists eagerly vol-
unteered to paint murals in the Service Club,
draw cartoons for unit papers, and do interior
decorating work in dayrooms and recreation halls.
Soldiers with experience in dramatic work offered
their services in the production of amateur theatri-
cals, radio broadcasts and fioor shows in connec-
tion with dances. The success of these programs
convinced the Corps Area Morale Office that dra-
matics play such an important role in the enter-
tainment program in Army camps that they have
approved a plan for the selection and assignment
from the ranks of the enlisted personnel of three
soldiers to serve as dramatic director, musical
director and stage technician.

Prior to the present crisis, educational courses
for .the enlisted personnel had been anticipated.
The need and desirability of such courses had been
indicated by a survey conducted through the mo-
rale officers. The results of this survey showed
that 1,173 soldiers requested instruction in sixty-
five different subjects. Attendance at these classes
was to be voluntary. No admission charge or
registration fee was to be required, and instructors
were to be provided through the New York State
Department of Education.

Miscellaneous Activities

\Vith reference to other leisure—time pursuits, a
large number of miscellaneous activities were ar—
ranged by the morale officers at Pine Camp in-
cluding the following: sight-seeing trips among the
Thousand Islands, arrangements with college and
high school athletic associations to invite soldiers
to attend their home football games, the distribu-
tion of tickets for professional boxing shows, con-
certs, baseball games, variety shows, sailing and
fishing outings during the summer, week-end in-
vitations to groups offered by civilian organiza-
tions in surrounding communities, fraternal din-
ners, smokers and social parties, church dinners,
bowling league reservations, appearance of \Villie
Hoppe, world's champion billiard player, at the

Service Club, the showing of sport and educatii
films. presentation of civilian choral, musical a:
dramatic groups at the camp theaters, office-
dances and special holiday programs.

To aid the communities surrounding Pine Car
to develop and administer suitable p-rogrun
civilian defense recreation committees were c
ganized by the Federal Security Agency rep:
sentative stationed in \Vatertown. Through t
contacts made by 'this representative, ma
churches, civic and fraternal organizations ha
been more than anxious to entertain soldiers
smokers, dinners, outings, parties and as wee
end guests. The Post Morale Office coopera-t
closely with these defense committees and t
USO representatives in administering an adequ:
recreation program for the leisure time of soldic
of the entire camp.

The USO agencies in their temporary quart:
in \Vatertown, Carthage and Black River, Nu
York, have all aided immeasurably in solving t
problem of soldier entertainment off the post. T
many activities sponsored included dances, dal'
instruction, movies, musicales, Sunday refres
ments, bowling, basketball, weight-lifting, billiarq
swimming, soldier home entertainments and facf
ties for the recreation of soldiers while on man:
vers. A soldier advisory committee has been c
ganized to assist in the administration of the W
tertown USO program. This committee'consi
of a representative appointed by the morale :
ficer from each military unit. The members of t
advisory committee are to serve on the Executi
Council of the USO in planning their ent'
soldier program.

To aid further in the close cooperation betva
the military authorities and the civilian agenci
particularly the USO, the Post Morale staff 1
gether with the 4th Armored Division'Mor:
staff attend weekly luncheons with the civilian (
fense committee chairmen and the USO rep:
sentatives. These weekly meetings serve as
clearing house for all activities which are spt
sored outside of the camp proper. Such a syst:
of close c00peration has eliminated the usual 0w
lapping and the improper planning and spons:
ship of leisure-time programs.

Nora: The Morale Branch of the United States Ar
has changed its name to Special Services Branch and
now training officers for special assignments as recreat
officers for duty with troops in the continental Uni'
States and at overseas bases.

  

crafts which can be included in a recreation

—_ program, the response is invariably leather,
metal, clay work, weaving, beadwork, batik, papier-
maché, and the like, but very seldom are crafts
with nature materials included in the list. Yet this
is one of the least expensive and most creative of
all crafts.

Craft books fail, just as do peOple, to include
this among their suggested activities. Yet when
we realize that “Questions like this are legion:
‘What hand work shall we do this year in our
club, in 'our interest group, in our camp? We
have done all the usual things and are tired of
them, so we would like something new,’ ”* and
add to this the fact that recreation groups are con-
stantly on the lookout for inexpensive crafts, we
wonder why this has been so long overlooked.

The idea of creating beautiful and useful articles
from pine cones', shells, or acorns is a novel and
interesting one to most group members. And how
much cheaper it is to work with seed pods and
grasses than with leather and metal, which are
becoming increasingly difficult
to secure.

It has been said again and

WHEN. ASKED TO LIST some of the various

 Crafts with Nature Materials

By L013 CORKB

Are you worried because war-
time needs are depleting the
materials for your handcratt
program? Why not take a trip
to the woods and stock up?

human desire for the chance to express one’s self
in a creative manner. W'ork with natural materi-
als, where mechanical devices are at a minimum,
offers just such a chance. Originality and inge-
nuity are constantly being challenged. Valuable,
too, are the concomitant learnings found in this

' type of craft. Betty Price writes in Adve’ntur‘ing

in Nature, “If the nature program overlaps crafts,
it will capture the interest of many a craft-minded
person a little shy of nature, as well as enrich the
craft program. Craftsmen should know something
of the nature of materials with which they work—
how clay is formed, or why that wood is good fox“
carving.”

An example of such a program is seen in a
camp where a group of seven-year-olds wanted to
blow bubbles, but had no pipes. Taking their
problem to the craft counselor, they were quickly
rewarded by the suggestion to hollow out acorns
and use stiff grass for the stems. In the process
they learned about grasses and how to recognize an
oak tree. Also, in working so closely with nature,
individuals may be made aware of the important
place nature has played in de-
sign. And since crafts with
nature materials are really the

again that more and more
mechanical devices are depriv-
ing human beings of creative
expression during working
hours, and that there is a great

 

* Ruth Perkins, Hand Book on the Use
of Crafts. Published by Womans
Press, New York City.

"By finding one's own materials and
developing ingenuity to adapt them
to suitable purposes, one can have
the sense of being an explorer in a
new land, of living close to nature and
using her gifts, which one can never
have in conventional workshops."
—From Adventaring in Camping,
National Federation of Settlements.

oldest we have, an interest in
primitive man and the history
of crafts can often be aroused
in connection with them.

It has been said that crafts
which combine solitary work
and social contacts or coopera-

237

238 CRAFTS l—VITH NATURE MATERIALS

tive effort are the most valuable for the individual.
Crafts with nature materials certainly combine
both of these, for besides individual work, objects
can be made for such group activities as games,
plays, and music.

Some Nature Materials and Projects

Popular with girls are nuts, seeds, and pine
cones, for these can easily be made into attractive
bracelets, buttons, and beads. Seeds and berries
may be dried, then pierced and strung. Small
screw-eyes may be placed in the end of pine cones
or acorns and small nuts which have been hol-
lowed out and filled with plastic wood. Then,
when shellacked or dyed, they may be used for
buttons or strung for beads and bracelets. For
coloring, natural dyes can be used—for example,
sumac leaves give gray, sunflower seeds blue, elder-
berry stems black, hemlock bark red. Girls also
enjoy experimenting with these to make hair orna-
ments, lapel gadgets, and the like.

Another project appealing to girls is the making
of buttons from cross sections of walnuts. Each
nut is set in a vise and sliced across with a hack
saw, furnishing three or more buttons of various
sizes. The woody inner division forms the shank
of the button. Each slice should be filed and var-
nished before using. Peach stones may be cut and
used in much the same manner.

Another simple project which children enjoy
making for their mothers are pecan salt and pepper
shakers. By cutting the blunt end off pecans,
scraping the insides, and punching holes in the
opposite ends, one has an attractive set. Corks are
put in the bottom and the shakers are shellacked.

Pine cones of all sizes and shapes give
one a great chance to be creative. Little
ones can be made into attractive place
cards. Larger ones, painted or gilded, make
lovely Christmas tree ornaments, or door
and table decorations. Dried
seed pods, too, can be paint-
ed and strung and displayed
in very much the same way.

Gourds offer an oppor-
tunity to make many inter-
esting and useful articles.
Dippers, bowls, cups, and
other containers can be made
by cutting off the t0p or
side of a dried gourd, hol-
lowing out the insides, and
shellacking the whole shell.

 

The head of this goose girl. described
in Woodland Pixies, is a small acorn;
the body, two large bur oak acorns; the
hands. two sections of velvet leaf seed
case. The shoes are prune pits. and
the skirt and scarf are of corn husks.
Can you guess how the geese are made?

A craft of more interest to boys is that of bone
carving. The Indians made a surprising number
of things from bone—arrowpoints, whistles, beads,
hoes, awls—and boys can have great fun trying to
carve these and other objects from bone.

Turning to the waterfront we find beautiful
shells, driftwood, and rocks which can be adapted
to a crafts program. Shell trumpets are fun for
signaling on a hike. Large, flat shells make good
dishes for winter gardens or bulbs or are useful
in the crafts room as paint dishes. Small ones,
painted and strung together, make attractive
Christmas ornaments or bracelets, boutonnieres,
and necklaces. Moist seaweed can be used in
weaving baskets.

Bark crafts are among the oldest, and still con-
tinue to be popular. Birch bark furnishes material
for baskets and boxes of all sizes and shapes, for
picture frames, fans, napkin rings, bracelets, and
many other objects. Inner bark of basswood will
provide good lacing and lashing materials.

Basketry, too, is an age old craft and one which
offers many fascinating leads for studying cultures,
for the baskets of a nation can express its charac-
ter, color, and customs. Basketry, too, often leads
to interest in different types of materials. “There
are Indian baskets from the Southwest, made of
reeds from river banks and sweet grasses from the
plains; Indian baskets from Alaska, woven of
pliable roots; melon-shaped baskets of hickory
splints from the southern highlands, and baskets
of every shape and size for
almost every purpose made
by the New England crafts-
men.” *

In the United States there
are countless numbers of
materials that can be used
for baskets—among them
are willow branches, cattail
leaves, flags, rushes, numer-
ous grasses and ferns, vines, |
wood splints, pine needles,
__ __ bark and roots, and corn
=" I ';II_-':' husks. Since there are so
“  many natural materials avail-
able, it seems unnecessary to
use substitutes. These ma-
terials fall into three groups:
(1) Round, such as reeds,
roots and vines, generally

 

 

'Art: and Craft: with Inexpensive
Materials. Girl Scouts, Inc., New
York City.

CRAFTS WITH NATURE MATERIALS 239

used in weaving. (2) Flexible,
which includes the grasses, husks,
leaves, ferns, and pine needles. The
coil method of basketry is used for
these. One starts with a central
core and coils the material round
it, while stitching it together with
raffia or grass. (3) Flat materials,
such as rushes, splints, and corn
husks. These materials are plaited.

Materials used in basketry are
also good for making sit-upons and
mats. A useful project for a group
of campers is to create sit-upons
for the entire camp. Corn husk and
pine needle dolls are also fun for
younger children to put together.

Clay modeling is another craft
which challenges one’s creative ability. Clay suit—
able for modeling can often be obtained from a
near-by clay bank—it usually has to be washed to
free it from other soils—and this, plus the fact
that it requires few tools, makes it an extremely
inexpensive craft. Claywork has been claimed as
one of the crafts that has the greatest therapeutic
value for individuals; it answers the emotional life
of a child and helps to relieve some of his tensions.

Lastly, this list of suitable nature materials must
include wood. “Whittling with natural materials
has an immediate appeal. Hike sticks, hike plates,
trenchers, noggins, walnut and cedar buttons,
buckles, and tie slides, camp and trail signs, totem
poles, whistles, trays, pins, and unit insignia can
be made with no more equipment than a piece of
wood and a knife.”

Naturally enough, it is in camps that most use
is made of wood as a craft material. Innumerable
camp gadgets can be created from a few sticks of
wood and some lashing twine. The writer is well
acquainted with a camp situated in the heart of
the Maine woods. Here, indeed, is a great chance
to use all available natural resources. One sum—
mer a unit of fOUrteen-year-old girls became inter—
ested in clearing a space and building a fireplace
so that they could have their own campfires.
\Vhen this was accomplished, each decided to build
her own council seat, and many different types of
rustic seats were constructed. Two or three of the
girls made brooms out of twigs and took it upon
themselves to keep the council ring in order. Not
long after, someone suggested that a .meal be
cooked there, and soon a simple outdoor kitchen
was constructed. There are countless cooking

 

Natural materials made this lapel
trinket. Use a hickory nut for
the body. pipe cleaners tor the
legs and armsI prune pits for
feetI and an acorn for the head.

utensils which can be made from
natural materials—pot hooks, broil-
ers, toasting forks, flapjack turn-
ers, knives, forks, and spoons are
just a few of them.

Undoubtedly one reason why
these girls were so interested in
fashioning articles out of natural
materials was because the crafts counselor had en-
couraged this among campers and staff. On one
occasion, this camp had a' Christmas party and
everyone in camp drew the name of another for
whom she made a present. Nearly every gift was
created from bark, cones, pine needles, and such,
and because there had been a great desire to make
each present “different,” the party caused a great
spurt of creativity and originality.

Another interesting project of the camp was the
plan of making each unit responsible for dining
table centerpieces every so often. The ten-year-
olds made attractive dish gardens. A group of
thirteen-year-olds, who had chosen to be an Indian
unit, constructed small birch bark canoes and filled
them with flowers. And the older girls set up
miniature camp sites in the center of each table.
Still another camp custom with craft activity was
the construction, by each unit, of a rustic unit sign.

_ What Can Be Done in Cities?

At this point, the comment may be made: “This
is all very well in camp, but what can we do in the
center of a large city?” Cities, of course, are handi-
capped in carrying out such a program, since
they are away from the sources of supplies. In
camps, in rural communities, and in small cities
where a hike to the outskirts of the city is easily
arranged, natural materials of some sort or another
are not hard to get. In a city such as New York
the problem becomes more difficult. o

However, the hurdle is not insurmountable. A
settlement house in the Bronx offers an excellent
example of an agency which is successfully proving
that natural materials can be secured in a city.

240 CRAFTS H’ITH NATURE MATERIALS

Their nature rooms abound with specimens and
materials which members have brought in from
camp and from hikes and trips. One of the most
interesting exhibits in their science room is a
group of animals modeled out of clay. Here is a
very real way in which crafts with nature materials
can be linked to nature study.

Another agency in Brooklyn is also proving that
a nature crafts program can be carried on in the
city. Here plaster casts, has-reliefs, and spatter
and blue prints are made by the children. Plaster
models of the moon, of mushrooms and toadstools,
and of birds and animals are exhibited. “food and
totem pole carving prove popular with the older
children, and all ages enjoy creating clay models.
Here the most extensive work with natural ma-
terials is undertaken during the summer when
trips are arranged more easily. One summer a
collection of fowl was made in which were a
rooster, a turkey, and a peacock.- The bodies were
made out of pine cones, and the tails either of
other cones or pieces of carved wood. The heads
had been carved, painted, and attached. Thin stick
legs were added, and all were mounted on a board.

Thus we see that it is possible to carry on some
sort of a natural material crafts program in a city.
A number of agencies are proving that field trips
into the country are feasible. On Saturdays the
nature leader of an East Side settlement house
takes a group away on an all-day trip to a woodsy
location. A New York City boys’ club has had a
roof-top day camp and in connection with this has
done nature craft work. A museum tells of a
group of city girls who took a thirty-six mile
bicycle ride to collect edible plants. Think of the
quantity of natural materials that could be brought
back from such a trip. A large agency in Brook-
lyn has conducted a stay-at-home camp during the
summer, and once a week the entire camp takes a
"hike" to a park or to the ocean. This offers
many opportunities for the children to gather
materials.

A large number of city agencies have summer
camps connected with them. Here an enthusiasm
for crafts with natural materials can be awakened
and can be carried, along with materials collected,
back to the agency in the fall. If all other methods
fail, staff members and friends can often be per-
suaded to bring in or mail the desired materials.
And in a pinch there are certain companies, such
as Prang and Company and Fellowcrafters, Inc.,
which will simply this type of material.”

Of course, to carry out an active program, the

agency must have the cooperation of everyone in
attempting to collect the materials. Each year at
Christmas time, in Cincinnati, a cedar tree gain
decorated with ornaments made from natural ma-
terials is displayed. Just for example, angels are
made with bodies of lotus pods and wings from
walnut shells. Poppy seeds served as heads. This
project is described in a booklet, l V oodla-nd Palms
A Hobby in Sccdcraft, by Hester Stephenson,
published by the Cincinnati Board of Park Com—
missioners. All members of the Board's personnel
cooperate in collecting the materials and making
the ornaments.

 

Department Store Ideas

At the other extreme are agencies which have
materials and don’t know what to do with them.
Recently the writer asked a girls’ worker in a
large settlement house what her departinent was
doing with nature crafts. She replied that they
had a large bag of acorns which two staff mem-
bers had donated, but no one knew what to do
with them. An easy answer to such people who
are lacking in ideas is to advise them to look
around the stores. The costume jewelry counter of I
any department store features articles from natural
materials. Moreover, at Christmas time the stores '
are full of decorations from pine cones, gourds,
and other natural materials which can be easily
copied. For a few cents, group members can make
articles as attractive as those sold for several dol-
lars in the stores. This is something to be kept in
mind by groups interested in raising money.
Marguerite lckis writes in A Guide to Arts and
Crafts, “The possibility of converting natural ma-
terials into useful things has scarcely been touched,
and a craftsman has the opportunity not only to
enlarge his program, but to find commercial use
for them.”

In closing, let us mention briefly how such crafts
can be carried over into group activities. \Ve have
seen in camps that objects can be made for the
unit or camp as a whole, rather than just for tly
individual. Group games can also be construct
from natural materials. Marguerite lckis describe;
several of these in her Nature in Recreation.
They include jackstraws made from sticks of
wood, dart games with corn cob darts, and a sort
of nature croquet, employing green twigs for arches
and pine cones or rocks for balls. In the field of
music, simple orchestral groups can be created,
using homemade instruments. Everyone is ac-

(Cominucd on page 256)

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  

 

 

l-lard Surfaced Playgrounds Meet with Approval

URING THE school year
D of 1933—34, the Phy—
sical Education De-
partment of the Long

By WALTER L. SCOTT

Director of School and Municipal Playgrounds

Long Beach. California

gation and planning, a
special committee appoint—
ed by the Superintendent
of Schools reported on the

Beach schools issued a bulletin in which beautifica—
tion. placement of new recreation-facilities, and
arrangement of playgrounds were suggested. A
splendidly successful tree-planting campaign, as-
sisted by the PTA, was one of the developments,
and grassy plots on playgrounds and pergolas to
provide shaded areas for quiet activities were in-
cluded in the improvements.

In speaking of surfacing, the departmental bul-
letin said: “All elementary playgrounds should
either be surfaced with some type of emulsified

suggestions advanced in the Physical Education
Department bulletin. The Board of Education was
favorably impressed, and, with the aid of the
Work Projects Administration, a program of
surfacing for about two and one-half million square
feet of area was undertaken and carried to com-
pletion.

What has been the result? What is the Opinion
of school principals and teachers, play directors,
and activity leaders responsible for conducting
programs of recreation and physical education on

asphalt or provided with ap-
propriate Sprinkling systems
to keep down the dust.”
Surfacing of special activity
areas at junior high school
and high school areas was
also recommended. The same
plan was advanced for the
improvement of several mu—
nicipal recreation areas.
Following careful investi-

After more than a year of use of hard
surfacing on school and municipal play-
grounds.of Long BeachI California. a
survey has recently been completed in
an effort to find out exactly what the
experience with these surfaced areas
has been. The results are interestingI
and the facts and opinions secured are
being presented here for the benefit
of any community which may be consid-
ering the improvement of its play areas.

these areas? Several pertinent
questions were asked in the
questionnaire and now the
answers are at hand and have
been tabulated.

“Has hard surfacing made
possible a greater use of your
playgrounds?” Answers from
103 were divided: Yes. 97;
No, 6.

Among the many reasons

241

242 HARD SURFACED PLAYGROUNDS MEET WITH APPROVAL

advanced for increased use of
playgrounds, three factors ‘
met with general agreement:
The permanently marked
lines for games resulted in a
saving of time, led to partici-
pation in a greater variety of
games, and made supervision
over much larger play groups easier to carry out.

\Vith the surface drying quickly after rains, loss
of time on account of mud was practically done
away with, and similarly dust was eliminated in
windy weather.

All parts of the surfaced area were available, in-
cluding the corners of grounds.

“Do you have more or fewer accidents since
using the hard surface?” Answers from 90 were
divided: More, 21 ; fewer, 39; same as before, 30.

“Have accidents been more or less serious?”
Amwers from 68 were divided: More, 9, Less,
42; Same as before, 17.

The two questions regarding accidents, consid-
ered together, are quite revealing. EXpressions
which accompanied the replies showed that most
of those who reported more accidents qualified the
statement as meaning more abrasions. Of the
nine who stated that accidents were more serious,
five qualified the reply by saying that abrasions
were more serious. At the same time, by far the
largest number of replies maintained that accidents
were less serious in nature and that the most
common type of accidents, abrasions, were less
serious because “abrasions caused by falling on
dirt grounds were harder to clean and there were
more cases of infection than had been the case on
surfaced grounds.”

Fewer sprains and broken bones were credited

to the smooth surface of paved areas and the
absence of holes.

“Do you, in general, like or dislike the hard
surfacing for playgrounds?” Answers from 103
were divided: Like, 97; Dislike, 3; Uncertain, 3.

This is decisive testimony that hard surfaced
playgrounds are liked by the professional group
answering the questions. It will be noticed that
the tally here is exactly the same as in the case of
that concerning the greater
use of playgrounds. As to ac-
cidents and their seriousness
there was more division of
Opinion,but one point brought
out was that there might be

The permanent lines for games, found
to be one of the great advantages of
hard surfacing. are painted and a color
scheme is used to designate lines
for various games. There are now more

than fifty-tive miles of these painted
lines on the Long Beach playgrounds.

Anyone interested in securing addi-
tional information regarding the material
used in surfacing and the method of lay-
ing it may obtain details by addressing
a request to the Physical Education De-
partment, Long Beach Public Schools.

a natural increase in the num-
ber of accidents recorded
along with the greater use of
the areas without any contri-
bution to accidents by the
surfacing. One teacher who
marked her questionna-iJe
“more accidents" ZRWC
list of the reportable accidents for the last Non
her grounds, and not one of the accidents d
was even indirectly connected with the tyyiof
playground surfacing.

“I never want to teach on dirt grounds “'3’
was the comment of one teacher. Another Cid:
“Surfacing is one of the best things accompl-id
to assist the physical education progam. I its
definitely opposed to surfacing before using.”

This latter statement throws additional l'glet on
the fact that two out of the three expressing ‘5-
like for surfaced playgrounds are employed at
areas which have not been surfaced.

A careful analysis of all comments made in re-
plying to the questionnaire shows that the general
attitude is that the surfacing is a very satisfactory
improvement which has proved to be of great
value to the physical education and recreation pro-
grams of the community. At the same time, it is
the general feeling that some grass areas should
be maintained at all playgrounds, and that where
possible some dirt area should also be provided.

Of-course there are numerous activities that re-
quire grass or dirt surfaced grounds, such as foot-
ball, baseball, and track and field races and con—
tests. This makes it evident that in the cases of
high schools and colleges, surfacing cannot re—
place the turf helds and replaces the dirt areas
only for special activity courts.

One advantage of surfacing which is obvious is
that buildings near surfaced playgrounds are much
cleaner, and that near-by homes and business
establishments are relieved of the damage and in-
convenience of dust blowing from the playgrounds.

In laying the surfacing, turf was stripped fro-m
the surface, the ground was disked and then
treated with a mixture of ten parts of Diesel oil
to one part of cresylic acid, using three-fourths of
a gallon to the square yard.
This process of sterilization
is designed to prevent early
damage to the surface from

the growth of grass.
(Continued on page 255)

A Fun Night for Service Men-

 

VERYBODY is doing something for the men who

E serve in our armed forces—churches, schools,
U.S.O., citizens’ defense committees, Y.M.
C.A.’s, Y.W.C.A.’s, and organizations of all kinds.
The “something” for the boys in blue and khaki
varies from the informal VV.C.T.U. “cookie jar”
social period, the athletic, sports, and social rec—
reation programs promoted by many city-wide
recreation departments and social agencies to the
regular Saturday night social dance program of

the U.S.O.

Our Thursday night “special,” judging from the
enthusiasm with which it has been received, has
met the requirements of a real fun night, and there
has been a steadily increasing attendance since the
parties were initiated in
June, 1941. Up to May,
1942, there have been twenty
such fun nights, with an
average attendance at each
of 67, of which 43 were men
and 24, girls. The ten co—
operating girls’ groups come
from five churches: Bene—
ficent Congregational, Ma—
thewson Street Methodist,
Grace Episcopal, Messiah
Episcopal, Second Presby-
terian; three girls’ colleges

Mr. Weckwerth. who is responsible for the
social recreation of the service men tre-

quenting the already crowded quarters and or marine to individual
facilities of the Providence Y.M.C.A.. in

planning his program tried to create some-
thing diFferent which would combine old
and new. would savor of spontaneous fun
for skilled and unskilled. and would create
good fellowship among young men and
women meeting each other for the first time.
Finally. the program must weave into the
over-all social recreation pattern normal
"boy-girl" relationships.
the development of the Thursday night fun
night which Mr. Weckwerth describes here.

By CHARLES F. WECKWERTH
Director. Men's Division

Providence. R. |.. Y.M.C.A.

(co-ed) — Rhode Island College of Education,
Pembroke, and Rhodyites from Rhode Island State
College; one social agency, Y.\V.C.A.; and one
community group — “Rhodies,” an organized
women’s army unit of the state.

The Plan
In putting on the parties the psychological prin—
ciple of “S-R” (Situation—Response) has been
taken into account in planning, organization, and
administration. If the “S” or situation is properly
defined and planned, it is the belief that the de-
sired “R” or response will result.

Time Schedules. The pattern for the evening
provides for four major time schedule divisions.
Beginning at 8 :00 o’clock and continuing to about
9:00 comes the period of orientation, when people
get acquainted on a normal “ad lib” basis rather
than by any formal method. This seems important
for a number of reasons:

I. The service men do not arrive all at one time
since they do not all come from one place.

2. Experience further defined that service men
feel more at home if they can come in as indi-
viduals and in small primary groups of two and
three in number rather than to arrive en masse.

3. It makes for a more
normal situation in which to
introduce a soldier, sailor,

hostesses.

4. The normal on-going
activity of the hostesses and
service men present in the
room makes it very inviting
for a newcomer to enter into
the spirit of the occasion.

During this “ad lib” per-
iod the following activities
are under way according to

243

The result was

244 A FUN NIGHT FOR SERVICE MEN

the preparations of the men and the hostesses:
two tables of table tennis; a few informal throw-
ing games including bean bags, rubber rings, wash-
ers. ping-pong balls. and rubber heels: three tables
of simple alphabet letter puzzles gaily painted in
primary colors: sets of bridge cards, score pads,
and pencils: an electric phonograph with a large
assortment of all the up-to-date dance numbers. as
well as many old favorites. An attractively dec-
orated serving table adds color to the setting.

The second time schedule period begins some-
where between 9:00 o’clock and 9:15 and lasts
until 10:00 or 10:15. The purpose of this period
is to bring everybody into a program of mass social
recreation which consists of individual and group
stunts, mixers, folk and country dancing, guessing
relays. and circle party games.

After an active, happy experience of about two
and a half hours, the mass recreation period, hav—
ing led up to a high pitch point of physical and
emotional challenge and excitement, causes a nat-
ural demand for food. rest, and conversation. At
this point the service men are “detailed” to ar-
range the chairs and the room while the hostesses
of the evening go about their assigned duties to
serve their guests the very welcome refreshments.
Coffee and homemade cake or cookies are gen-
erously served to the men who seat themselves as
directed. Each girl assumes a definite responsi-
bility, and in assembly line fashion passes among
the rows of service men distributing cups, spoons,
napkins, coffee, sugar, and other supplies until all
have been served and informal conversation is a
natural result. The girls then serve themselves
and take their places among the service men. This
refreshment period serves as the third in the time
schedule and consumes about twenty minutes. The
fourth period of the evening takes advantage of
the planned seating arrangements and transforms
very satisfactorily into a community sing session.
As some of the girls collect the paper cups, plates
and spoons, others distribute song sheets, and
almost instantly the party is engaged in various
levels of barber shop harmony. The leader tact-
fully takes the program over at this point and
directs the singing. Included are many of the old
standard songs along with the request numbers of
the day. Stunt, action, and fun-making songs.
with and without physical exercise, add materially
to the joviality 0f the occasion.

At a few minutes before 1 1 :00 o'clock, when the
leader feels the proper moment has arrived, he
makes known to all present where the girls came

from and who was responsible for the homemade
cake. This usually evokes a “Hip, Hip, Hooray"
from the service men. Then the leader asks all to
stand in place and sing “God Bless America.”

At the completion of this popular number the
leader asks the men to sing “Good-Night, ladies"
with him. Following this the girls sing in unison
“Good-Night, Soldiers -— Sailors — and Marin-es.”
Both groups join in the jovial chorus, “Merrily
\Ve Roll Along.” A natural "good-night” at this
point from the leader meets with laughter and
happy “good-nights,” “an revoir,” “thanks a lot.”
“so longs . . . until we meet again.”

The Response

Encouraging evidence of the response is found
in an excerpt from the Providence. S 1mde foam!
for March 22, 1942, by Virginia Hornsby, feature
writer:

“It doesn’t take long to get acquainted. \Vith
fifty or sixty service men for the twenty-five girls,
a shy or bashful youth sees his fellow shipmates
having a good time and he joins in.

“Last week they played a candle game where
relay teams raced to one end of the room, lighted
a candle and raced back with it flaming. Another
number was the old Girl and Boy Scout trick of
seeing who could put a rope over his head 'and
then step out of it first. Marching with cake pans
on the head, dancing the Virginia Reel, swinging
to a sort of Russian Conga were other snappy
items of amusement.

“\Vhen exhaustion had just about overtaken
everyone, the girls brought in the ‘eats’-—angel
cake with gooey green frosting, chocolate cake to
make your mouth water, and coffee! Some ‘Pem-
brokers’ literally fed the boys.

“Next there was much singing—‘Hinky, Dinky
Parley Vous,’ ‘When Francis Dances with Me,’
‘0 My Darling Clementine,’ ‘John Brown's Baby
Has a Cold Upon Its Chest,’ a lustily ‘Marching
Along Together,’ and a half dozen other old timers.

“\Vorn in body and voice, at II :00 P. M. they
swarmed to the piano, sounded ‘God Bless Ameri-
ca,’ and then ‘Good-Night, Ladies.’ The fun-
making was over.”

Guiding Principles
1. The hostesses are recruited and invited only
by groups who do not repeat their services more

than once in four or six weeks.
2. Hostesses are instructed as a group previous

( C nntinucd on page 255)

 

Service to Boys

Y BROTHER created the
Charles Hayden Foun-
dation to foster and

help the most priceless of our
possessions — the American
boy.

In the depth of his vision,
he saw that opening the doors
of Opportunity to the boys of
our land—giving them proper
mental, moral, physical, and
spiritual training—would re-
sult in rearing (and I now
quote from his last will and
testament) “a nobler race of
men who will make better
and more enlightened citizens
to the ultimate benefit of
mankind.”

That was Charles Hay-
den’s primary and motivating
thought: Improving the race
of men by helping the sons
to become better men.

If ever that thought was needed, if ever impera-
tive necessity demanded the purpose to be carried
out—it is now. The future of this nation depends
upon it. The very fate of the world depends
upon it.

Let us face cold fact! Let us look truth in the
eye! We men of today have failed—failed mis-
erably. We cannot be honest with ourselves, we
cannot be honest to coming generations if we do
not acknowledge that we have committed many
serious, grievous, tragic blunders. If there were
not something radically
wrong with our general
scheme of things, would
World War No. I have
taken place? Would the
great depression that fol-
lowed it have occurred?
If we had not failed so dis—
mally, so miserably, so
tragically, would we now
be in the midst of another
carnal conflict—the most
terrible war in all history

By J. WILLARD HAYDEN

 

Recreation workers in New Yorlc. Boston. and
other cities throughout the country who are
influencing the lives of thousands of boys
will be interested in this address given by
J. Willard Haydenl President of the Charles
Hayden Foundation. The address was made by
Mr. Hayden in accepting the BoysI Exposi-
tion Medal as a posthumous award to his
brotherI Charles Hayden. for many years a
member of the Board of Directors of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. The award was
made at the luncheon of the Boysl Club Work-
ers held in New York Cityl April I6l I942.

—this frightful holocaust that
threatens to consume the
world?

The structure we reared
we built upon the sands, and
it is tumbling about us. The
civilization we sponsored, the
culture we boasted of, has
proved false, untrue. It was
only “skin deep.” It has car-
ried us backward, not for—
ward.

\Ve conquered the skies,
but it has not brought us
closer to Heaven. It seems
that every gift the Almighty
gave us we are using wrong-
fully. We have forgotten that
all the wonders of science
cannot avail if we do not rec-
ognize Almighty God and live
up to the Ten Command-
inents.

These are plain facts, 3.
picture of our day and era, painted with the un-
varnished brush of Truth. I mention these facts,
not in any spirit of pessimism, but to show the
tremendous burden we have, by our tragic failures,
placed upon the youth of today.

When we win this most terrible of all wars—-
and we will win—what then? When hostilities
cease will troubles end? They will not! Pestilence
and famine, those twin sisters, are stalking in the
wake of the armies———dread consequences of the

war—inevitable consequences that may prove
Worse than the war itself.

That is the heritage we
have bequeathed to com-
ing generations. That is
the titanic load we have
placed upon the shoulders
of our sons.

It is a sad picture—a
hopeless picture indeed,
were it not that we can be
confident in the wisdom of
God. Right must eventually
triumph over wrong. and

245

Kaiden—Keystone

J. WILLARD HAYDEN

246 SERVICE TO BOYS

right will triumph when the
peoples of the world are fully
awakened to the uselessness
of war and strife. As sun-
shine follows the rain and as
glorious summer follows in
the wake of winter, following .
the strife will come peace. “'17
May God grant that it will be
a lasting peace, purged of
greed, hatred, vengeance, and
intolerance. ,

The world will recover from our grievous
blunders, the peOples of the world will not perish
—it will be saved by the youth of today if we
instill in them the proper spirit of right thinking
and right living. The fate of the world, the des-
tiny of all mankind, is in their hands. Not only
in their hands, but in yours. In your hands, you
men who have dedicated your lives to the Ameri-
can boy, you officers of the different Boys’ Clubs,
you executives from other organizations serving
boys.

The importance of your task cannot be over-
estimated. There are no men who have more
power to do the world so much good—more power
to so greatly benefit mankind, greater opportunity
to so truly serve Almighty God—than you men
who are making your life occupation the better-
ment of the American boy. That you faithfully
and efliciently will accomplish the great work in
front of you is assured by the splendid services
you have rendered in the past.

For the good you have done and the good that
you will do for the boys of America in improving
their mental, moral, physical, and spiritual fitness
in order that they may have more to give to their
country later if the occasion demands it—I want
to thank you all in behalf of my brother, who left
his life’s fortune to the American boy and who
created the Charles Hayden Foundation to help
you carry on.

Both as the brother of Charles Hayden and as
president of the Charles Hay-
den Foundation, I accept with
sincere thanks this “Boys’
Exposition Medal" which you
give in his memory as a
posthumous award.

The spirit of generosity
and devotion with which Mr.
Charles Hayden gave himself

In public recreation centers throughout
the country there are thousands of boys'
clubs. Night after night, boys are be.
ing strengthened mentally. spiritually,
and physically. In New York City alone
it is estimated that at the present time
4-5,|03 boys are enrolled in 2,588
clubs under the auspices of the commu-
centers maintained by the public
schools. What all this means in terms
of future citizens cannot be estimated.

Recreation executives whose departments
include clubs for boys will be heartened
by Mr. Hayden's emphasis on the value
of the work which is now being done and _ . . I
the opportunity which lies ahead in help- of America and his faith 1
ing to carry out Charles Hayden's o
iective—a nobler race of men. The Na-
tional Recreation Association ioins with
Mr. Hayden in commending the notable
work for boys that is being carried on.

to the cause of “making a
nobler race of men,” his per-
sonal interest in recreation,
and his services to the Na-
tional Recreation Association
and t0 the recreation move-
ment throughout the co‘ry l
found expresssion in the Res-
olution passed by the Board
of Directors of the Natimml
Recreation Association after

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
 
   

his death :

“The National Recreation Association records
with profound regret the death on January 8, 1937,
of Charles Hayden, who for ten years served as a
member of the Board of Directors. Mr. Hayden’s
first service to the Association was in 1917 when
he helped on the finance committee of “far Camp
Community Service. Mr. Hayden always gave
generously of himself. In later years, as sponsor
for the Association in New York City, he helped
to increase the number of friends giving and the
size of the contributions. He was generous in al-
lowing the use of his name and connections in the
service of the Association. With all his business
interests, Charles Hayden found time to think
about and work for recreation, education, and lei-
sure-time activities. He cared deeply for boys and
young men and believed heartily in protecting their
spare time. In speaking of the needs of boys
throughout the country he once said: ‘They should
have their God-given right to play and work
their surplus energy and to utilize their spare
time.’ The breadth of his interest was expressed
in generous provision for boys’ clubs, a planet-a
rium in New York City, and contributions to
long list of charitable, educational and recru-
tional causes. Charles Hayden personified t
play spirit. It permeated his work. He entere
enthusiastically, joyously, and triumphantly int
all that he did. He enjoyed recreation himself
and took part actively in golf, tennis, b0ati1

social activities and game

of various kinds. The en
thusiasm with which Charl
Hayden worked for the yout

' them will remain an inspira
tion to all those who wor
in the national recreation
movement.”

l

 

Safety in Bicycling

1TH THE growing popularity of bicycle rid-
w ing, the Richmond, California, Recreation

Department added to its program of special
activities during the past year a Bicycle Safety
Week, climaxed by a Bicycle Day when the chil-
dren of all the playgrounds met in competition
with their fellow bike riders to test the various
skills learned during Safety Week activities.

Primarily it was believed that an activity of this
kind would stimulate interest on the part of the
children in the care of their bicycles, as well as in
safe riding. \Ve found that not only children but
adults, too, were interested, and as a result the
learning and practicing of safety rules and the
proper care of bicycles became a game which was
fun for all to play. When the final day came not
only did several hundred children participate in
the scheduled events, but
nearly as many mothers

A program of bicycle safety which
became so interesting a game that
young and old enioyed playing it

By

DOROTHY A. SMITH

Assistant Director of Recreation
Richmond. California

program was of particular importance at this time,
since within the last year three large shipyards
have been constructed in Richmond and the’sub-
sequent increase of automobile traffic has made
bicycle riding especially hazardous. Each child
who desired to participate in the events of Bicycle
Day was required to learn and be able to pass a
test on safety and traffic rules for bike riders.

Regular instruction and practice for the competi-

tive events were held each afternoon on the various
playgrounds under the leadership of the play leader.

Bicycle Day began with the inspection of the
bicycles by a committee of interested businessmen.
The bikes were checked to see [that brakes, lights,
tires, and wheels were in good condition for safe
riding. Following the inspection a parade was held
in which the following awards were made: (I)
Playground with most entries. (2) Playground
with best decorated group. (3) Best individual
decorated bike. (4) Largest bicycle. (5) Small—
est bicycle. (Tricycles were excluded.) An award
was also given to the playground that had_ the most
winners in the various events of the day.

The playground on which the program was held
was divided into areas for
each separate event, and

and dads were on hand to
watch the program.

The program for the
week included official reg—
istration of every bicycle
with the local police de-
partment. Each playground
director, in cooperation
with teachers and princi-
pals, stressed the import-
ance of safe riding and
observance of all traffic
rules. This phase of the

The bicycle problem has become very acute in
Portland. Oregon. where there are now about
|5.000 bicycles. almost double the number in
I936. The city has adOpted provisions requir-
ing (I) that cyclists obey traffic regulations
in the same manner as do the operators of
motor vehicles; (2) that bicycles shall be
equipped with headlights and red reflectors.
and (3) that sirens and whistles shall not be
used on bicycles. The Bureau of Municipal
Research and Service. City Hall. has prepared
for the School Safety Education Committee
of the Portland Traffic Safety Commission a
report summarizing methods of bicycle con-
trol now in effect in six cities of more than
250.000 population. Price. twenty-five cents.

participants rotated from
one event to another until
they had completed all the
tests. Six skill tests were
arranged to test the rider’s
ability to control his bicycle
under certain handicaps and
adverse conditions. A play-
ground director was placed
in charge of each event to

instruct in the rules of that
particular contest and score
the entrant.

247

248 SAFETY IN BICYCLING

Events in the Bicycle Day Program

Slow Ride. This takes place between two paral-
lel lines, seventy-live feet long and four feet apart.
The object of this event is for the rider to ride
down this lane as slowly as possible and at the
same time avoid touching any of the sidelines.
The slowest rider wins. This event must be timed
with a st0p watch, and one second is subtracted
from his score each time he touches one of the lines.

Precision Ride. This event is conducted in three
lanes. One lane is two feet wide, the second,
eighteen inches, and the third, only twelve inches.
The rider must make two trips through each lane,
and each time his tire touches a line a point is
deducted from a possible twenty points. High
point rider is the winner.

Circle Ride. This tests the rider’s ability to keep
his bike under control while riding in circles.
Three concentric circles are painted on the ground,
one, twenty-five feet in diameter, the next, twenty-
two, and the inner circle, eighteen feet in diameter.
There are staggered breaks in each circle three
feet long. The rider makes a complete ride around
each circle and enters the next without stopping
or allowing his tire to touch any of the lines. \Vhen
he reaches the inner circle he starts
out again and continues until he
reaches the outer circle. This is scored
in the same way as the first two
contests.

Obstacle Race. Ten obstacles are
placed in each of two rows for this
event. (Paper ice cream cartons make
good obstacles.) The rows are eight
feet apart, and the obstacles are placed
eight feet apart in the rows. The rider
makes a zig-zag round-trip
ride between the rows of
obstacles, trying not to
knock any over. Scores the
same as in previous events.

Stopping Test. This test
is one of the most popular
events both from the stand-
point of the spectator as
well as the participant. A series
of six cross lines are painted
on the ground one hundred and
fifty feet from the starting line
and twenty-five feet apart. At
each cross-line a monitor with
a whistle is stationed. Each

 

  
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
   

monitor is given a number indicating which con-
testant he is to stop with his whistle. For ex-
ample: monitor No. 4 blows his whistle for the
first rider; .\'0. 6 for the second, etc. When rider
No. I crosses monitor No. 4’s line. he blows his
whistle and the rider must stop within twenty-
hve feet without sliding his tires. If the judges
think he is riding too slowly, the contestant must
start again. One point is deducted from twenty
for each foot over twenty-five that it took him

to stop.

Paper Throw is of particular interest to the news-
boys for it tests their aim in throwing rolled
newspapers while riding their bicycles. Three
garbage cans are placed four feet away from a
line and each participant is given three rolled
newspapers to throw in the cans. He is allowed
three “trys” and is scored five points for each
paper he is able to throw in any of the three cans.

Recreation departments in various localities
have for several years carried on a very success-
ful program of this type and members of those
departments as well as the police departments
have helped materially in adapting some of their
activities to the Richmond situation. The program
as set up here follows closely the out-
line set up for the Boy Scouts of
America. The Cycle Trades of Ameri-
ca, Inc., The Lumberman’s Mutual
Casuality Company, and the National
Recreation Association supplied post-
ers, stickers, booklets, andI
certificates for winners that
aided in promoting interest
in the activities.

.-

In preparing this pro-
gram, members of the play-
ground staff used the spirit
of competition inherent in
all boys and girls to interest
them in making bicycle rid-
ing in Richmond a safe
practice. In the various
events it was planned to in-
still in the minds of bicycle
riders in general, and bi-

By Gedge Harman

And if bicycles are
crossed off the list
of available equip-

mentI there are rol-
ler skates to be had

cycle-riding children in par-
ticular, the hazards involved
in this presumed-to-be—sim-
ple task. It was intended to
teach them how to ride skill-

(Cmtiunrd on page 253)

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

UDUBON, John James (1785-1851) was a
chronic victim of “back to nature” who was
usually penniless. As a boy he was caught sketch-
ing a bird instead of plowing and was called lazy.
His understanding wife fostered his keen interest
in nature even when the family was in need of
food and clothing. He was invincible when ac-
complishing what he believed right. When rats
destroyed several hundred sketches, he went right
to work again. It took fifteen years to complete
Birds of America (1827) after showing it to a
London engraver. He had no reference library on
birds, yet was America’s best known bird painter.
Audubon Park, New York City, Audubon Me-
morial State Park, Kentucky, and Audubon socie-
ties throughout_ the nation are memorials to a man
who was thought “queer.”

Birds. “Some Common Birds Useful to the
Farmer.” Conservation Bulletin 18, 1942. Super-
intendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. 28
pp. IO cents.

“Birds and Bird Conservation.” A Manual for
Teachers. Missouri Conservation Commission,
Jefferson City, Mo., 1941. 30 pp.

Bluebird Highway. The Missouri Garden Club
Bluebird Trail Project will extend from Kirkwood
to Sedalia along the main highway and from Cape
Girardeau to St. Louis. A. C. Burrill, curator of
the Missouri Resources Museum writes that they
are hoping to encourage the bluebirds and to dis-
courage the European starlings.

Camp Cookery on the Playground. Children
want to do more than just frolic. Nutrition is
always an important problem. Why not build a
stove out of native materials such as rocks and
clay? A piece of metal, un-
suitable for defense pur-
poses, may be salvaged from
the dump. Such subjects as
costs, economy meals, forag-
ing for milkweed greens,
superstitions, eating a dish
prepared by another na-
tionality group, overcoming
prejudices, and sugar substi-
tutes may liven the project.

has a

"Many great naturalists were prophets of
what is now accepted as good recreational
leadership. They overcame obstacles of
health and'circumsi’ances of birth. They
surrendered friendshipsl reputation, and
even life itself for the cause they espoused.
The life of every truly great naturalist
lesson for present-day leaders.
And so we plan to 'nal’ure-gram' a bio-
graphical story each month about a pioneer

with a zeal for reality."—Cap’n Bill.

Camping. “To the Girls and Women of Ameri—
ca.” From a clipping, found in a family Bible, and
written by Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick: New York
City Evening Mail, April 21, 1917. Dr. Gulick
(1865-1918) was the first president of the Play-
ground Association (National Recreation Associa-
tion) and of the Camp Fire Girls. His philosophy
is as good now as for the first World War. “Plan
to go camping even if it is only for a week and in
your own backyard. The night has lessons for us
that do not come during the daytime. Sometimes
it seems that the stars say things to us. The
gentle whispering of the leaves is different at
night. Night silences speak as day silences do
not. . . . It will be a new world to you—a new
physical world, a new spiritual world.”

Conservation. Seven countries have ratified the
Inter-American Treaty on Nature Protection and
Wildlife Preservation planned to come into force

'May I, 1942. The objects of the treaty are to

protect and preserve native fauna and flora in the
American republics, including migratory birds, and
to protect and preserve scenery of extraordinary
beauty, unusual and striking geologic formations,
regions and natural objects of aesthetic, historic,
or scientific value.

Conservation l/Vorkshop, Teachers College,
Plymouth, New Hampshire, July 6 to August 14.
Directed by Dr. Richard Weaver of Dartmouth
College.

Evacuation to Camps. The reasons for all chil-
dren going to camp this summer are: safety, re—
lease from tension, health, education, recreation,
democratic procedure, morale, interracial friend-
ship and mutual understanding.

“Forestry for 4-H Clubs.”
Miscellaneous Publication
395, U. S. Department of
Agriculture, 1941. Superin-
tendent of Documents, Wash-
ington,D. C. 50 pp. 10 cents.
Useful to leaders.

4-H Boys and Girls in
1941 produced 2,000,000
bushels of garden products,
5,500,000 birds, 75,000 dairy

249

5

250 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

cattle, 260,000 swine, 186,000 other livestock. The
girls canned 11,000,000 jars of farm products. A
million and half boys and girls carrying on, with-
out orders from anybody, but because they
want to!

Garden Center, Berkshire, Stockbridge, Massa-
chusetts. “To provide a clearing house for Garden
Information and Horticultural Experiment and a
place where those interested in Horticulture and
Gardening may meet.” Founded in 1934, it now
has over 600 members. An herb garden and herb
house, dwarf apple orchard, sun-heated pit, and a
demonstration room of garden accessories make
it worth a visit. It is at the intersection of Routes

102 and 183.

Garden Program on the Playground. The Na-
tional Recreation Association has issued an -excel-
lent booklet on gardening (50 cents). The U. S.
Department of Agriculture has literature that is
available. In connection with playground cookery
why not start a Victory Garden? There may be a
vacant lot near-by if the playground is not suited
to the project. Lettuce, chard, beets, carrots, to-
matoes, pole beans, onions, radishes, cucumbers,
and squash should provide a succession of fresh
products. \Vrite the Templin Bradley Co., De-
troit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, for information
about penny packets of seeds.

Gardening. Miss Marion R. Case, Weston,
Massachusetts conducts a summer training school.
for thirty boys each year at her Hillcrest Gardens.
This has meant a happy and contented life for

hundreds of boys.

“Gourds, Useful and Ornamental.” Superintend-
ent of Documents, Washington, D. C. I3 pp. 5
cents. A timely and interesting hobby.

“Herbs, Magic in,” Leonie de Sounin. Barrows
and Company, New York City. Growing your own
herbs, a current hobby, is now a defense measure.
You can do it with this “chatty” reference.

Korean Cherry Trees. A 1934 circular of the

Agriculture Department changed the name of the

so-called “Japanese Cherry Trees” in Washing-
ton to “Oriental Flowering Cherries.” They grew
on the Korean Peninsula and were taken out by
Japanese invaders.

National Park Ideals. Unspoiled natural scen-
ery for inspiration of all the people. Features of
broad national interest. Trees for beauty and not
lumber. All hunting forbidden except with cam-

era. “lild animals will not injure humans except
in self-defense. \Vaterfalls are not harnessed for

power.

Nature Trails. The Allegheny State Park has
trail pockets where, for instance, all the local fern
species are planted in one place for study and com-
parison. Rustic benches are placed near them so l
that rest, study, and note-taking may be combined.

Ocean Life. “Alphabet of the Sea,” Nellie I
Caesar. Christopher Publishing House, Boston,
Mass. 114 pp. $1.25. A handbook for children
with topics for every letter of the alphabet, and
quiz sections for the guidance of parents and
leaders.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  

“Photography, Outdoor.” An Elementary
Course in Photography. Eastman Kodak Com-
pany, Rochester, New York. 36 pp.

Sngaring Off. “\Ve are celebrating our seventh
annual sugaring-off at Bakersville. Another big
success.” From Louis C. Schroeder, Pittsburgh.

“Tales Told in the Long House.” Carborundum
Company, Niagara Falls, New York. Free. In-
dian legends suitable for campfires.

lVeather. “Everybody talks about the weather”
is not true today. As weather goes from the \‘Vest
toward the East, Uncle Sam is not disclosing much
weather information. A weather club on a play-
ground with homemade apparatus might be more
than fun. Meterologists have to be keen observers
and have dependable judgment. Aviators have to
have special'training in weather science.

Wildlife. Hollow trees are necessary for squir-
rels, raccoons, opossums and honey bees. To re-
move them is neither improvement nor good man-
agement.

Wildlife Defense. An ofi‘icial of the Fish and
Wildlife Service will make an investigation when
camps and factories endanger wildlife.

Willow Planting for stream improvement is ef-
fective and inexpensive. Cuttings from the yello
and weeping willow are ornamental and easy to
obtain.

Zoological Park, New York. A new Africa:
exhibit has been built on two principles: th
moated or barless enclosure and grouping of fre
animals according to their continental habitat. T
cleverly concealed moats and naturalistic back-
grounds make it appear as if the lions, zebras, and
Stanley cranes are living together peacefully.

WORLD AT PLAY

ON AUGUST 6, 7, and
8, 1942, North Caro-
lina’s fifteenth moun-
tain dance and folk
festival will be celebrated at McCormick Field,
Asheville. There will be at least fourteen groups
of dancers participating in the festival which is in
every sense of the word a folk festival, since it
belongs to the people themselves. In addition to
dancers, there will be individual ballad singers,
yodelers, and liddlers. Eight states will be repre-
sented in this, the oldest festival conducted by the
peOple themselves. In the past as many as I 5,000
people have gathered to enjoy the dances and
music..\

Bascom Lunsford, director of the festival, and

North Carolina’s Folk
Festival

himself one of the mountain people, brought one.

of his groups to the National Folk Festival held
in New York in May to present North Carolina’s
square dances and songs. While in New York he
made three recordings for the National Council of
Teachers of English—“Sweet William and' Lady
Margaret” ; the “Twa Sisters”; and the mountain
dance song, “Cindy,” as played in Buncombe
County, North Carolina; Mr. Lunsford’s home
county.

. THOUGH] k ff d
In Minnesota’s State ac 0 un S

Parks ble to provide nature

guides this summer in
the state parks, over 800 trail markers in seven
parks will help the hiker traveling over the trails.
The labels, made by W PA craft artists, are con-
structed of wood fastened to a stout stake driven
into the ground. On the lower end of the stake is
a gadget made of metal which ‘when driven into
the ground and pulled back slightly will expand,
firmly anchoring the stake in the ground.

It is hoped that the marked trails will be self-
educating.

“EVERY person who
shall engage in any
sport or recreation on
Sunday, between sun-
rise and sunset, shall be fined not more than $4
nor less than $1. (Act of I702.)

“Every person who shall be present at any con-

Some Old Laws in
Connecticut

will make it impossi-~

cert of music, dancing, or other public diversion

on Sunday, or on the evening thereof, shall be
lined $4. (Act of 1784).”

MR. ADAMS, editor of
one of the local papers
in Fergus Falls, has
given the city a piece
of property of thirty-one acres near the edge of the
city to be developed as a public park. It is Mr.
Adams’ hope that a large playtield will be de-

veloped on the property together with some forest
plantations.

A Public Park for
Fergus Falls

DELEGATES to the
Eighth Pan—American
Child Congress on May
9, 1942, at Washing—
ton, D. C., adopted a declaration proclaiming the
right of every child to obtain the essential elements
of wholesome, healthful living, to find out and
develop his or her special abilities, to use creatively
part of its free time, to a place in community life,
and to take part in some of the many creative ways
of transforming the raw materials of human life
into usefulness or beauty.

Declaration of the
Rights of Children

“NINETY thousand
Greater Cincinnati

children put away
their school books Fri-
day and went out to play. Now three of them are
dead, nine are injured, one has a fractured skull,
another a broken leg. They won’t play again for a.
long time. The dead were victims of unsupervised
swimming in the Ohio River. They drowned be-
cause nobody was there to save them. The in~
jured played in streets instead of playgrounds, or
they were walking where they shouldn’t have been.
Recreation officials say three children would be
alive and nine would be unhurt today if they had
been at playgrounds instead of in the river and
on the streets.

“Sixty-six playgrounds, play centers, and swim«

A Plea for Safe Sum-
mer Play

ming pools opened Monday. They are supervised

and they are free. Children are safe there. So
recreation officials urged Cincinnati mothers:
‘Please use them. See that your children play in

5”

safety by sending them where playing is safe. —.
251

252 SEVEN YEARS OLD

1k
** **

at DIAMOND’S 10:
PART in the WAR

About ninety per cent of our faciory's
output is for Army. Navy. and Air
Corps use. We are working 24 hours
a day. 7 days a week to help supply
tools for the war machine.

Such all-out effort is necessary in
spite of the sacrifices of civilian busi-
ness. We're in a war and we're in TO
WINI When that iob is done. it'll be
back to BUSINESS AS USUAL.

DIAMOND BALK HORSESHUE CO.

4bl0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

  
 

1k
*

air
*

 

 

Extracts from an article in the Cincinnati Post,
June 24, 1941.

Cooperative Training in Recreation Leader-
ship—Training in recreation and group leader-
ship is offered by the Eastern Cooperative Recre-
ation School at Massachusetts State College, Ani-
herst, Massachusetts, August 9 to 16, 1942. There
will be classes in games, folk dancing, group sing-
ing, dramatics, and fundamentals of design, with
the emphasis on how to teach others and on tech-
niques of leadership which will develop coopera-
tion in a group. In order to consolidate transpor-
tation as much as possible, the School is being
held at the same time and place as the Eastern
COOperative League’s annual Institute for Coopera-
tive Leaders, which will offer a workshop oppor-
tunity to Recreation School students, as well as
contact with active C00perators from all over the
East.

Further information may be secured from the
Eastern C00perative League, I 35 Kent Avenue,
irooklyn, New York.

Toys and Games for Evacuees—The Ameri-
can Friends Service Committee has issued an ap-
peal for toys, athletic equipment, card games, table
games, dolls, story books and novels, and cotton
yard goods suitable for clothing that can be made
by hand for use at reception and resettlement cen-
ters for evacuees from Pacific Coast cities. Infor-
mation regarding shipping centers may be secured
from the American Friends Service Committee, 20
South Twelfth Street, Philadelphia.

Seven Years Old

(Continued from page 227)

he steeled himself to endure five times the annual
property loss that goes with any normal age seven
daughter?

Again, M. Dionne must eXpect a heavy increase
of telephone traFlic in and out of his home. He
will be forever taking calls. 15 Cecile there? May
I please speak to Annette? Can Marie come
over? All day long like that, beginning before
breakfast. Little folk used to yoo-hoo to one an-
other across the fences, but not any more.

Childhood at H's Best. M. Dionne’s table is long,
but it will need to be longer to seat the neighbor-
hood tramps aged seven, that the five sisters, being
normal, will drag home to dinner. His radio at
close of day will roar with gun-fights of the most
harrowing description. \Vhen new pairs of danc-
ing slippers arrive, his house walls will surely
bend outward, unable to contain five bursts of
seven-year-old pride at once. All the same, M.
Dionne should be a happy man.

For age seven is a wonderful age in girl children.
It is the age of losing teeth and growing new ones;
of bossing the hired girl; of drenching the person
with perfume; of being indifferent to meals and
ravenous between them; of standing on the head
without shame; of being demure as pie one minute
and boisterous as a Piute the next; of yearning to
ride on railway trains, and having crushes on small
boys who sniffle.

It is the age, too, of discovering, all of a sudden,
that one can read. Best of all, it is the blessed
period when little folk are dreamers who see be-
yond things present; dramatists who live their
dramas; poets lost in their poems. “They walk
among mists and rainbows,” said Stevenson, who
was a seven-year-old at heart to the end of his life.

Anybody can see that M. Dionne’s new respon-
sibility will be a strain. Still, thousands of people
will envy him—Reprinted, by permission, from

GOOD HOUSEKEEPING IN RECREATION 253

“Topics of the Times,” The New York Times,
September 1941.

“Oomph” at Seven

A woman’s most delightful age is seven. At
seven she sits on a man’s knee without hesitation,
affected or genuine, and without putting the knee
to sleep. She enjoys listening to him, encourages
him to talk, and believes any story he tells. Her
curiosity over what became of his hair is some-
times embarrassing, but her sympathy with him
in his loss is unquestionably sincere. While un-
duly interested, perhaps, in the state of his ex-
chequer and never too proud to accept pecuniary
aid, she is no gold digger whose gratitude is
measured by the amount of the contribution. For
as little as two copper cents she will bear-hug his
spectacles all out of shape, and he feels sure she
means it. At seven she is more or less front-tooth-
less, to be sure. But then she doesn’t yet chalk
her nose or paint her nails, and she hasn’t begun
to use tobacco. All in all, a charming age !—From
The N ew York Times, as condensed in the Read—
er’s Digest, January 1942.

Safety in Bicycling
(Continued from page 248)

fully with a minimum of risk. The wholehearted
cooperation of parents, teachers and police, and the
approval with which the program has been met by
all school authorities assure it a permanent place
in the regular program of this department.

 

4——

Good Housekeeping in Recreation
(Continued from page 230)

cident records and the elimination of questionable
practices. Fundamentally the spirit of the happy
family may be summarized in the right of every
individual to develop, within his capacity, in the
life work and recreation he chooses.

Cooperation. One of the fundamentals of de—
mocracy is cooperation of individuals with one an-
other. If you should question a modern American
mother, one respected in her community for being
a good homemaker, you would find that all stress
cooperation between the members of the family.
The home will reHect the ability and housekeep-
ing standards of the mother, but without some
help from the other members of the family there
can be little in the way of complete success.

In recreation our good houskeeping will reflect

©JETRW ATHLETIC

mm EQUIPMENT

Min a; a I no iiqu Car; 15:? E. 25th S? Ms Angela: C37".
8.: ;* ‘BM tmw II.' “I. "g; u

 

the ability and the general attitude of the executive
in charge. There is something about shoddiness
that seems to be contagious and cumulative. In
some buildings there seems to be little effort ex—
pended toward placing paper in containers. This
is especially true of many school buildings, and it
must be remembered that when one child leaves
waste paper in a hall or a dropped ice cream bar
on a stairway, it represents not only an injury
hazard but an invitation for others to be careless.

The plant custodian has a great responsibility
and in a general way he will reHect the attitude of
the executive in charge. There should be no order
of importance in the care of a plant because good
housekeeping is a cooperative enterprise. Coopera-
tion in good housekeeping as applied to recreation
does not mean cleaning up once a week or once a
month—it means keeping cleaned up all the time.
This means that executive staff and children must
pull together, not with a gigantic heave, but slowly
and steadily, all together, all the time.

The Age of Chivalry

(Continued from page 212)

spirited away to the island of Avalon to be healed
of its wounds, whence he expected to return in
after ages to restore the rule of right? May his-
tory soon be able to record “they lived happily
ever after.”

Three hundred diplomas were awarded. More
than six hundred shields, helmets and headdresses
were made by the library’s W PA project, which
gave other valuable assistance during the period.

Source material consisted of Bulfinch’s “Age of
Fable”; “\Nhen Knights V'Vere Bold” by Eva
March Tappan; “Medieval Days and Ways” by
Gertrude Hoffman; Malory’s “Morte d’Arthur”;
“Page, Esquire and Knight” by Marion Lansing;
“Story of the Middle Ages” by Donald Peattie;
Compton’s “Pictured Encyclopedia,” and the
“\Norld Book.”

Iv
'J‘

 

 

A [CITRIOTIC PLAY PROGRAM

 

Copyright 1M2, Roan Typewriter Company. Inc.

Engine of war!

E, of the Royal Typewriter Com-
pany, are proud to be engaged in
the manufacture of an engine of war.

The part the typewriter is playing in
America’s war With the ans powers Is a
vital one, for speed and more speed is the
very essence of our armament program.

Every day millions of flying fingers
must type instructions, specifications,
orders, and reorders before a bolt can go
into a tank, a rivet can go into a battle-
ship, or a rib can go into a plane.

Even on the field of battle, the type-
writer must help correlate the fast-mov-
ing action. The typewriter is with our
fleet at sea, for each aircraft carrier, each
battleship, cruiser, destroyer, and sub-
marine . . . each unit of our Navy, down

to the little mosquito boats, has type-
writers on board.

Wherever men and women work in war
industries, wherever soldiers and sailors
go to fight, the typewriter must go with
them. That is why the Royal Typewriter
Company is proud to be called upon to
help provide the United States Govern-
ment with the_ typewriters needed by an
America at war.

 

ROYAL (7/éi/Jo%/ TYPE‘VBITER

A Patriotic Play Program

/( matinwd from pane 208)

Other Activities. ( (uvlrct'aiiutl with the physical

iitness campaign will Continue through the presen-
tation of special physical flttleba demonstrations

and television performances in health activities.

Entertainments will be given for the enlisted
men at the Philadelphia Navy Yard and at Fort

Dix. The recreation centers will furnish a series
of entertainments throughout the three encamp-

A FUN NIGHT FOR SERVICE MEN

ments sponsored each summer for the under—
nourished children of Philadelphia.

Philadelphia’s wartime recreation is a combina-
tion of fun and serious work. These are of equal
importance in the health and welfare of the coun-
try today.

Hard Suriaced Playgrounds Meet
with Approval

(Continued from page 242)
The ground was then graded and rolled firmly,

with one-inch screeds set for strips of surfacing
approximately ten feet wide. Next came the appli-
cation of the paving, consisting of the following
mixture for each 100 square feet of area: Number
7 gravel, 8% cubic feet; river silt, 2% cubic feet;
emulsified asphalt, 13% gallons.

A feature of the surfacing plan was the concrete
sleeves—~open at the bottom for drainage and pro~
vided with hush—fitting metal covers—used for
setting up removable posts for volleyball and bas-
ketball courts.

A Fun Night for Service Men

(Continued from page 244)

to their entry into the quarters reserved for the
service men’s party or before coming to the build-
ing. It is suggested that they consider themselves
serving as hostesses in their own homes. “Treat
the men in uniform as you would entertain them
in your own homes,” is the keynote. This in-
volves taking the initiative when the girls see that
their guests are alone, bashful, or hesitant about
entering the room or taking part in the fun.

3. The girls are reminded of the economic prin-
ciple of supply and demand and its application to
the Thursday night parties ! It is definitely planned
that there shall always be more men than girls.

4. Control of the departure of hostesses and
guests is ‘managed by having the hostesses leave
their wraps and pocketbooks in a room especially
reserved for' them. Entry into this room is had
by clearing through the responsible leader of the
group.

5. In order that groups will respond and con-
tinue to cooperate and parents will give their
consent, the girls usually report and leave as a
group. Girls between eighteen and twenty-live are
preferred.

6. Each group is asked to supply from ten to

fifteen homemade cakes or the equivalent in cup
cakes or cookies. '

255

pa wetsullu affective

IN PREVENTING

ATHLETE’S FOOT

Kills the fungi of ath-
lete's foot in 1 minute

in a 1% solution . . .
vet NON-TOXIC and
SAFE TO HANDLE

 x - MER - K”.
x  pcls

     
        
      
 

IDEAL for disin—
fecting Wool or
silk SWIM SUITS
as it causes no
damage to these
materials.

An advance step
in the combina-

_ . , tion of mercury
and Iodine in a water soluble solution . . . a BETTER

solution to use for the control of athlete's foot.

MER-KIL PC I5 is readily available. superior to and

supercedes cresylic acid and chlorine compounds
needed for vital war production work.

LOW COST

l gallon makes I00 gallons of worlting solution at an
approximate cost of 3c per gallon.

Write for sample and information

 

7. Coffee, sugar, service equipment, space, jani-
tor service, and leaders are contributed by the
Providence Y.M.C.A. If for any reason the groups
cannot supply the refreshments the “Y” assumes
reSponsibility for furnishing them.

8. Hostess groups are recruited as far in ad—
vance as possible.

9. Program transitions from one period to an-
other are- guided in as tactful and informal manner
as possible, the principle being to make transitions
when the group or the majority of the members of
the group are at the peak of enjoyment of the
activity in each particular time schedule period.

IO. A combined “person and group” centered
attitude is the starting point. Care must be taken
that the whole situation is under continual evalua—
tion from week to week, from group to group, and
from activity to activity so that the desired re-
sponses can be secured from each individual and
group participating.

Check List of “Musts” for Each Party

I. Recruiting of hostesses to serve.
2. Appointment of a small nucleus of service

256 “A;lIERICA’S CHILDREN”

Crafts in Wartime

By Marguerite Ickis

0 Here is a novel, attractive,
and useful booklet designed to
meet present needs.

Many factors have been taken
into account in the preparation
of this booklet. The materials
available, the usability and at-
tractiveness of the articles sug—
gested are only a few of these
considerations.

This booklet is a "must" for your

summer playground program!

. . . Price 35 cents

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

 

men to help get each week’s party under way.
Unless this is done hostesses are apt to feel a little
embarrassed if they are obliged to wait until 9 :15
or 9 :30 for the majority of the men to arrive.

3. Reminder of all local Army, Navy, Coast
Guard, and Marine bases of the weekly event.

4. Securing definite word from the group in
charge on the provision of cakes and cookies.

5. Planning of the agenda details for the fun
night party events.

6. Recruiting of leadership for conducting the
various phases of the program, including piano
playing.

7. Planning, supervising, and arranging for the
physical properties of the rooms and materials to
be used. This includes check rooms, table and
decorations, cups, napkins, spoons, plates, sugar,
coffee, game equipment, phonograph and records,
piano, music, and songs.

8. Assumption by the leader of responsibility
as host and master of ceremonies. This involves
inviting and greeting the service men, greeting
and providing for the hostesses, introducing par—
ticipants, supervising equipment and refreshments.

"America's Children"
( C antinucd from page 214)

zon Club girls are planning a party for blind chil—
dren and are making arrangements to include deaf
children in their summer nature program work.
Mishawaka, Indiana, girls have invited two blind
girls to be their guests at summer camp, and they
plan to include special handcraft and recreational
sessions for handicapped children in their day
camping program. Everywhere the girls are visit-
ing the handicapped wherever and whenever pos-
sible, forming real friendships and mutually en-
joying and learning from each other.

Then, too, the girls have investigated ways to
be helpful in the institutions. In Fargo, North
Dakota, Horizon Club members plan to help in
tutoring crippled children who are confined to their
homes, and they are offering their services to round
up handicapped children for the yearly clinic check-
up sponsored by the Elk’s Club in their city. In
Minneapolis, they are accompanying blind children
to and from school; in Berkeley, California, groups
are practicing reading aloud and making record-
ings of their voices preparatory to making “talking
books” for use in the blind school. And all the
groups are collecting, making and buying toys,
games and scrapbooks to entertain crippled and
chronically ill children confined to beds and wheel-
chairs.

The Horizon Club girls have been too happy
with their project to allow it to end with the year’s
reports. They are going ahead and broadening its
scope as they go. We can pretty well measure the
success of the program when we read in a Horizon
Club girl’s report this statement: “W e have found
that we have received a great deal more than we
have given both in knowledge and understanding.”

Crafts with Nature Materials
(Continued from page 240)

quainted with the shepherd’s pipes made from bam-
boo.* Also, fifes can be made from cornstalks,
panpipes from hollow reeds, rattles and banjos
from gourds, and harps and trumpets from wish-
bones and shells respectively.

So it can be seen what a variety of objects can
be made from nature materials, and to what a
number of uses they can be put. Although the use
of natural materials as a craft medium is becom-
ing more and more popular, its values and possi-
bilities have yet to be realized by group work
agencies.

 

‘ See How to Make and Play a Shepherd Pipe, by A. D. Zanzig.
National Recreation Association. Price 35 cents.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 257

Pan-American Relationships
(Continued from page 226)

In the Memphis summer playground program
each week is a “Special week” such as “Enchanted
Week,” featuring dramatics and allied subjects;
“Play-Olympic Week” with special stress on
safety and sports ; National Joseph Lee Week, and
others. One evening each week is designated as
“special night” on the playground, with a program
f activities planned for participation of the whole
amin as a unit. The first week of the 1941 sum—
ner season was known as “Come and See Your
layground—Know Your Neighbors”_ and was
uilt around “get acquainted” activities with the
“Childhood in Democracy” pageant featuring all
)rograms on special night of the week. This was
ollowed by various special programs, each featur—
ng the country represented by the playground.
he creative play groups made articles native to
he country, as well as individual costumes for
ear on all special occasions.

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
 

“Pig-Latin” Songs

The playground songs and yells of 1941 were
ometimes in, Spanish and more aften in “pig-
atin.” Native games were played and dances
armed. Spanish phrases mingled with the south-
rn accent and “Mi Amigo” became an actuality
n the playground. Playground research commit-
es eagerly sought out Memphians who had
aveled in Latin America and proudly brought
hem to the playgrounds to tell of their experi-
nces and exhibit their souvenirs. The weekly
layground radio program was flavored with the
pice of our South American neighbors. Even the
panish pirates and heroes found a place on the
ummer program as small boys in fierce mustache
nd side-burns swaggered around under the im—
osing names of Pizarro and Simon Bolivar.
Afternoon tea became “Verba Mate,” and
ourds were enthusiastically converted into Mate
ups as well as Maraccas. The Junior Humane
ociety Pet Clubs selected as live mascots the
arest approach to a Pan-American animal, and
rtunate indeed were the playgrounds that could
produce a monkey!

The climax of the summer season was reached
at the annual play festival in August. The beauti-
ful mall at Overton Park became a “Fiesta of the
Americas,” with exhibits from Argentina, Bolivia,
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Domini-
can Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala,

(Continued on page 258)

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to~tl1e Recreation Worker

  
     

MAGAZINES

Camping World, April 1942

“Nature Bugaboos” by M. A. Blatchley. Place of

nature study in the camp program

“New Camp Labor Laws.” Status of the camp
counselor

“Weather and Camping” by James W. Moore. How
to be your own weather man

“What Changes Will Employee ShOrtages Create?”
Dorathea Eberhart. Facing the counselor problem

Nation’s Schools, June 1942

“Adventure in Art in the Library” by Audrey F.
Carpenter

Parents’ Illagazine, May 1942

“Camps Forward March” by Ross L. Allen. Im-
portance of camps in wartime

“What Future for Youth?” by Hal Hazelrigg. Main—
taining educational, vocational and recreational op-
portunities for youth in wartime

Parks and Recreation, May 1942

“Costs of Park Maintenance and Operation in
Chicago Region” by E. L. Bayly and Robert
Kingery

“Maintenance of Clay Areas and Dust Control” by
J. K. Coleman

Physical Educator, The, June 1942

“Organization of the Camp Craft Program in the
Camp” by Barbara Ellen Joy

“The State Association and the Physical Education
Program in Civilian Defense” by C. H. McCloy

Safety Education, May 1942
“Checking Up on the Cyclist” by George T. Stafford

Survey Graphic, June 1942

“The Leisure Time of a Democratic Army” by Ray—
mond B. Fosdick

PAMPHLETS

A Guide for Wartime Planning for Children by Marshall
Field. Limited number available
National Citizens Committee, White House Confer- -

ence on Children in a Democracy, 122 East 22nd
St., New York.

Baseball as Played by Champions

Division of Community Service Programs, Work
Projects Administration, 1206 South Santee Street,
Los Angeles, Calif.

Camping in American Defense prepared by National
Camping Commission. Adapting the camping program
to the needs of the emergency

The National Council, Y.M.C.A.’s, 347 Madison Ave—

nue, New York

Children bear the promise of a better world . . . Through
play they learn what freedom means prepared by Chil—
drens Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor. Defense
of Children Series No. 8 .

Superintendent of Documents, Washington D. C.,
price $3.00 per 100

0
258 A PARK DEPARTMENT ENLISTS FOR THE WAR

Pan-American Relationships

(Continued from page 257)
Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, and our
own U. S. A. In fact, some of the smaller play-
grounds had to “double up,” as there are more
playgrounds in Memphis than there are Pan-
American countries.

During the process of the day’s program grease
paint streaked earnest little faces, lariats trailed on
the ground, mantillas were tipped back from damp
brows, serapes and panchos were cast aside, but
the children were still “good neighbors.”

The final event of the day’s program was the
annual playground pageant, “The Enchanted Prin-
cess, South of the Border”——-an original Pan-
American version of the old fairy tale, “Sleeping
Beauty.”

In a large arena, gay with fiuttering fiags, trou—
badours and venders, the playground children par-
ticipated in not one bullfight, but three, each more
ferocious than the preceding one, with the hand
of the beautiful Spanish maiden awarded to the
lucky contestant. \Vhat matter if the first bull did
resemble Ferdinand and refuse to fight, or that
the second bull chased the Matador out of the
ring The third, and most ferocious hull of all was
banis .3d by the dashing Don amid the cheers of
the Peones de Brega, the senors and senoritas, the
toreadors, the Royal Don and his retinue.

But alas, when the evil witch persuaded the
Princess to play upon her guitar, she pricked her
thumb and fell asleep for a hundred years, sur—
rounded by bees and birds, butterflies and beau-
tiful fiowers. As in the old fairy tale, the hand-
some Matador, led by his godmother, Manola,
succeeded in awakening the sleeping Princess, and
all lived happily ever after.

Thus ended a summer of fun for the children of
Memphis. As they marched weary, but happy, to
the home bound busses the Bull walked arm in
arm with the Picador who, but a short time ago
had been bent on torturing him; the Wicked
\Vitches strolled with the lovely senoritas who
had guarded the Princess from their evil spell——
they were all good neighbors who parted not with

a drowsy “Buenas Noches,” but with a happier
phrase—“Hasta Mariana.”

A Park Department Enlists for the War
(Continued from page 225)

an Army and Navy boxing championship show

which will include elimination bouts in every post

and station of both branches of the service in this
area. This will culminate in a grand Army and
Navy championship in Boston.

At twilight hundreds of men in uniform may be
seen playing softball and baseball on parks through-
out our system. These men are attending the-
military schools in Boston. '

Being a coast-line city, Boston has eleven
beaches open for bathing free of charge for the
men in uniform. Special classes in swimming and
water safety are being provided by our staff of‘
Red Cross trained instructors. Our two gola
courses and several tennis courts are open without
charge to 'the service men. I

From time to time we have diversified the sports.
program with many excellent vaudeville and miu-'l
strel shows at the various camps. One of the mos‘
popular forms of entertainment has been old-tim
square dances conducted at posts, on board ship
and in our gymnasiums. A series of Gay Nineti
vaudeville shows and barber shop quartet cham
pionships are being planned. These shows, whicl
drew capacity crowds during the past two years
will be a weekly event during the summer months

   
   
  
 
   
  
 
  

An important civilian defense program has bee
the training of men and women in first aid fo
various mobile units. Graduation exercises ha
been held, with over five hundred individuals com
pleting the courses as competent first aiders. A
classes were conducted by our staff of Red Cr
teachers.

The Massachusetts Work Projects Administr
tion through its State Director, Denis \V. Delan
has assigned approximately two hundred worke
to aid in the work for the service men. All ha
been trained under the supervision of the Recr
tion Division of the Park Department and ha
made an important contribution to the progran

Any success we have attained in conducting
program has been due to the cooperation existi
between the Recreation Division and milit
headquarters.

Three-Sided Play Areas

(Continued from page 229)

ticular plot is approximately one acre in size,
west corner being privately owned. It has b
recommended that the entire plot be utilized
recreation, thus making anarea of approxin
1.6 acres in size. Here again we have individt
problem in design. The plan provides for mi:
mum facilities in an area of limited space.

    

The Day Camp Book

Girl Scouts, Inc., 155 East 44th Street, New York. $.50.

HERE IS NEED for practical material on day camps, and
l the Girl Scouts have made an important contribution
in their new booklet dealing with planning, administra-
tion, and program activities. Though planned for the use

f Girl Scout groups, the suggestions and information
re so broad in their scope that the booklet will have very
etinite value for any group promoting day camping. It
's a valuable addition to the library of all recreation
workers.

    
    
  
   
  

How to Make Historic American

Costumes

By Mary Evans. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $3.00.

TEP BY STEP, detail by detail, this rnook shows how to
make authentic American costumes from Indian dress

lems of method and materials are covered. ‘Eiach costume
5 described in relation to its historic period.

Technic of Team Sports for Women

y Margaret H. Meyer, B.S., M.S., and Marguerite M.
Schwarz, B.S., M.S. W. B. Saunders Company, Phila—
delphia. $3.50.

THE TECHNICS, tactics, and reliable drills for the six
major team sports for women are presented in detail
in this book written for beginning and advanced players,
teachers in training, and coaches. Under each sport the
authors consider history, equipment and care, safety
factors, officiating, skills and tactics. Coaching instruc-
tions are given on offensive and defensive play.

Dance and Be Merry

Volume II. Collected and described by Finadar Vytautas
Beliajus. Clayton F. Summy Company, Chicago. $2.00.

EIGHT NATIONS are represented in these sixteen folk

dances, Volume II in Mr. Beliajus’ series. The
general plan of this volume is similar to Book I issued
in 1940, but the dances are longer, more varied and more
difficult, and are therefore suited to advanced groups.
Full directions accompany each dance and a glossary is
included.

Finger Plays and Action Rhymes

By Frances E. Jacobs. Lothrop, Lee and Shepard Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

THE RHYME-ZS and finger plays in this book are graded

from six months to six years and are closely related
to the child’s world today. An exquisite photograph
reproduced in sepia illustrates each rhyme, and the finger

plays are illustrated with charming photographs of
children’s hands.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Soldiers in Overalls

By E. C. Worman in collaboration with Louis W. Bruem-
mer, Earl M. Dinger and Herbert B. Rogers. Associa-

tion Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York. $1.00.

HIS DISCUSSION of the problems and needs of young

men in war-industry communities is directed to-the
officers, committeemen, and executives of those Y.M.
C.A.’s which are caught up in the great war industrial
production communities. However, in its statement of
the problem, its outline of policies and methods of pro-
cedure, and its presentation of samples of program activi-
ties it will be helpful to recreation workers in general,
so many of whom are concerned with the problem of
recreation for war workers.

. To Parents in Wartime

Children’s Bureau Publication No. 282. Superintendent
of Documents, Washington, D. C. $.05.

PREPARED by a group of experts in child guidance and

mental hygiene, this pamphlet is designed to help
parents in dealing with the problem of preparing children
to face wartime situations. “Prepare yourselves for what-
ever the future may bring. Help your children to con—
tinue living their everyday lives. Your children can take
it if you can.”

Soccer and Speedball for Girls

By Florence L. Hupprich. Barnes Dollar Sports Library.
A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.

THIS EXCEEDINGLY practical library is growing rapidly.

Among recent additions is Soccer and Speedball for
Girls, which dicusses two sports that are ever popular.
The author outlines the fundamental techniques, the
faults of beginners and how to correct them, and the
fundamentals of team play. An entire chapter is devoted
to omciating.

Singing Games for Children

By Alice P. Hamlin and Margaret G. Guessford. The
Willis Music Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. $1.00.

HE SINGING GAMES in this collection are old ones that

children everywhere have always played. Many of
them were carried by wandering minstrels from one
country to another. They may 'be taught in the home,
school, or on the playground to children of nursery
school, kindergarten, first, and second grades. Novel,
colorful illustrations accompany the games of which
there are twenty-five.

Looking Ahead with Youth

By M. M. Chambers. Prepared for the American Youth
Commission. American Council on Education, Wash- I

ington, D. C. $.25.
HIS PAMPHLET is designed to serve as a study guide

for use with the general report of the American Youth
Commission, Youth and the Future. It follows the

259

260 NElV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

organization of the book chapter by chapter. One free
copy of the study guide will be sent on request to each
purchaser of Youth and the Future.

1
New Songs and Games.

By Ethel Crowningshield. The Boston Music Com-
pany, Boston, Massachusetts. $1.00.

There are many new games in this attractive book
which together with its companion piece, The Sing and
Play Book, an earlier publication, is designed for the use
of the preschool and primary school child. Words and
music are given for over fifty songs and games.

Readiness for Learning.

Compiled by Gertrude Hildreth. Association for
Childhood Education, 1201 Sixteenth Street, North-
west, \Vashington, D. C. $.35.

This bulletin has reference primarily to learning skills
in the primary grades, but it will be helpful for teachers
at all age and grade levels whenever new skills are to be
taught or learned. It is concerned chiefly with readiness
for learning skills, the three R's and other tools of learn-
ing. Music skills is one of the subjects discussed, and
here Satis Coleman says: “If music is to serve the
personal and emotional needs of the child, the first thing
to do is to establish an intimacy between them—between
the actual music and the child—and not force an artifi-
cial, forbidding system of adult signs to prevent that
intimacy.”

Fresh Water Fishing.

A Fisherman's Manual. By Myron E. Shoemaker.
Doubleday, Doran, New York. $3.00.

Anyone addicted to fishing will delight in this com-
plete guide for the fresh water angler. It treats the
places to fish. the history of angling, and the technicalities
of equipment, bait, and casting. In addition, there is a
chapter devoted to each of the important North American
fresh water fish. Illustrated with excellent color plates
and line drawings. it would be useful as part of a camp
or nature study library.

The Official Volley Ball Guide, 1942.

Edited by George J. Fisher, MD. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $.50.

This edition of the Volley Ball Guide differs consider-
ably from previous annual publications. It is the hope of
Dr. Fisher, editor of the booklet, that in its expanded
form it will bring to all interested in the Sport informa-
tion and records which will prove valuable.

Building Morale.

By Jay B. Nash, Ph.D. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.00.

“Morale for a purpose" is the subject of Dr. Nash’s
book, and he stresses its importance to our daily life and
to the life of our country. Emphasis is given to the place
of recreation in the morale-building program.

Wagons Away! A Social Studies Reader.

By Josephine E. Phillips. Edited by Howard E.
Wilson. American Book Company, New York. $.72.

This book tells the story of a family which a hundred
and fifty years ago moved from Massachusetts to Ohio.
It offers an interesting medium for helping children to
understand better the history and geography they are
studying in school.

American Negroee—A Handbook.

By Edwin R. Embree. The John Day Company, New
York. $1.00.

_ In this interesting summary of the many factors bear-
ing on the Negro and 1115 relations to American life, Mr.
Embree has outlined the deve10pment of the race since the

 
 
    
   
  
  
   
   

first African slaves landed at Jamestown in 1619. H
describes the Negro’s adjustments to the new environ
ment, his learning of the new civilization, and his spec'
contributions in music and dance, art and literature, on
in zest for living. He presents, too, the other side of th
story—the obstacles and prejudices which stand in t
way of progress.

Little Technical Library Sports Series.

Little Technical Library, Zifi-Davis Publishing Com-
pany, 540 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago. Each
volume, $.79.

A series of books on sports and games has made i
appearance under the title of Little Technical Libyan
Sports Series. The following books have been publishet
to date: H ow to Pitch Baseball, by Lew Fonseca; High»
Score Bowling, by Ned Day; Fundamentals of Boxing
by Barney Ross; Championship Basketball, by Nat Hol-
man; Top-Notch Table Tennis, by Emily M. Fuller;
Scientijic Billiards, by Welker Cochran; Play Softball, by
\I-{farl'ry  Wilson; and How to Play Football, by Lynn

3 dor .

1942 Famous Slugger Year Book.

Hillerich and Bradsby Company, Louisville, Ken-
tucky. $.05.

Full of information on the last World Series and all
star records, and illustrated with pictures of batting star
of the major and minor leagues, this booklet will b
heartily welcomed by baseball fans.

Fly Casting.

By Gilmer George Robinson. Barnes Dollar Sports
Library. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

$1.00.

In this volume the author follows the same style an
treatment as in his earlier book, Bait Casting. In it th
expert and the beginner will find information whic
should help them catch more fish and tell bigger stories

Ofiicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association
- OFFICERS

Ross" GAnz'r'r, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHEI, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS. Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE. Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Boer
GasrAvas T. Ktuv, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

I F. GREGG Buns, Boston, Mass.
Mus. EDWAnD W. BIDDLz, Carlisle, Pa.
Mas. Ronzxr Wooos Buss, Washington, D. C.
Howno BIAUCHEI, New York, N. Y.
Mas. WILLIAK Burrnwoxrn, Moline, Ill.
Hen" L. Conan, Portland, Ore.
Mas. Anrnan G. Cauuzn, Jacksonville, Fla.
Mas. TnouAs A. Emson, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GAnnz'r'r, Baltimore, Md.
Ronnr GIANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AusrtN E. Gnrrtrns, Seattle, Wash.
Mas. NoquN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
Mas. MELVILL! H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
Mus. CHARLES V. chxox, Michigan City, Ind.
Mus. JOHN D. JAuzsou, Sugar Hill, N. If.
GusrAvas T. Kunv New York, N. Y.
II. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
Ronn'r LAssrrn, Charlotte, N. C.
SUSAN M. Lee, Boston, Mass.
0110 T. MALunv, Philadel hia. Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburg , Pa.
CAM. E. MtLthzN, Augusta, Me.
Mu. 061ml L. Mums, Woodbury, N. Y.
Mus. Stamina STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
Mas. Ants W. WADswonrn, \Vashington, D. C.
J. C. ALI" New York, N. Y.
Flsontcx  WAnaxa, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord. N. 11.
Sum." Wooowno, Washington, D. C.

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

July 16, 1942

    
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
    

r Mr. Braucher:

The stated purpose of the War Recreation Congress — to
ilize the recreation forces of the nation for more effective war
vice - is an admirable one. I earnestly hope it will be successful.

The inventive genius and organizing power of our people
e us the economic freedom that made possible the wide—spread
elopment of recreation for all the people. Now that we are at
we are fortunate in having this rich resource of recreation to
e us physical, mental and spiritual power for the titanic task at
d. You who have devoted your lives to this movement well know that
ess its full resources are geared to the war effort till victory
es, all that you hold dear may be lost for generations.

I rejoice in the fact that the strength of the recreation
ement in America stems from a deep feeling of community responsi—
ity, and I am greatly encouraged by the reports received of what
unities are doing through their local governments and voluntary
unity committees.

The recreation services being provided for the armed forces,
the workers in war industries, and for the morale of civilian
ups are very definitely contributing to our war effort.

As a long time member and supporter of the National
reation Association, I am happy in the thought of the significant
recreation service being rendered through this great cooperative
ort. " '

Very sincerely yours,

J Howard Braucher,
esident,
tional Recreation Association,

5 Fourth Avenue, ’1"/49/’
lw  N. Y. 7 I M A

261

