" N times of stress and strain the fine arts and social

diversions have new values. In London the thea-
ters performed to crowded audiences while the build-
ing rocked under the bombs. Musicians sped on motor-
cycles from factory to factory to entertain the work-
ers. Children in air-raid shelters were assembled in
groups for games. Rose gardens were planted in air-
fields from which bombers took off for Germany.
The fact is that the fine arts and the social arts have
now become as useful as food and drink. To main-
tain our individual and collective morale, we must
conscript every grace and comfort of civilization. It
is only as we keep the drums beating and the bands
playing and the banners flying bright overhead that
we shall have the courage to keep plodding through

these deserts to the green valleys of the Promised
Land.”

Marjorie Barstow Greenbie in
The Art of Living in Wartime

Thirty-seven Years!

lished. In April, 1907, one year later, the RECREATION magazine 'had its first issue. For

thirty-six years the magazine has appeared each month. In December, 1910, thirty-three years
ago, Lebert H. Weir became the first field secretary and took up his district on the Pacific Coast. Since
that date district service has been maintained in times of war, in times of depression, as well as in
times of peace and plenty.

ON APRIL 12, 1906, thirty-seven years ago, the National Recreation Association was estab—

A number of other organizations have sprung up to push special recreation interests; most of
them have come and gone but the National Recreation Association, working for recreation for all the
people, has remained without interruption.

One of its first meetings in 1906 was held in the White House with President Theodore
Roosevelt. Twenty—five years later another meeting—an anniversary meeting—was held in the
Cabinet Room at the White House with President Hoover. Several Cabinet members were present on
that occasion.

The Association has always tried to serve the leisure-time recreation interests of all human
beings in the United States from the cradle to the grave: It has given service through its correspond-
ence section to individuals and to families. It has served community organizations'supported by
private funds. It has served the American Legion, the service clubs, the P.T.A.’s, individual settle-
ments. Business and industry, church and labor groups have looked to the Association for help.
It has served rural areas as well as cities. Thousands of volunteers have been trained for recreation
leadership.

Above all, however, the Association has given service to government, local, county, state
and national, in recreation. About five hundred city governments have asked the Association to
serve as the agency for regularly clearing information between them. The Association has helped
establish physical education in the states. The Association has several times on request during dif-
ferent national administrations loaned some of its workers to Federal departments to help with
certain recreation projects.

Under Luther Halsey Gulick, Joseph Lee, John H. Finley, Charles W. Eliot, Henry P.
Davison, Myron T. Herrick, William Butterworth, Charles Hayden, Edward E. Loomis and other
national leaders of similar caliber, the Association has provided one outstanding national, central
place where anyone whether interested in privately-supported or tax-supported recreation for the com-
munity, or anyone concerned for individual or home and family recreation could turn for help.

The Association has stood for decentralization, has not attempted to control, has believed
each city and town should make its own decisions in the recreation field.

The Association has succeeded in its nearly forty years of life.in helping to secure recognition
that recreation—with all that it means of culture, of music, of drama, of art, of sport, of simple

children's play—is in America a great main division of life comparable with religion, labor, edu-
cation, and health.

I like to think at this anniversary time that all that has been done through the years has been
made possible because the ten thousand to sixteen thousand men and women who have cared have
shared year after year directly in the support of the Association.

W QWW

 

MAY I943

 

57

Photo by Hirz-Graf Studio:

RECREATION

 

‘ Playground: Programs—4943 Style

With mothers and fathers busy at war worh, children are being left alone
for many hours of the day. When schools close for the summer, where will
they go? Understafed and overworked playground directors must somehow
meet this need with flexible, oitalized playground programs, I943 style.

Junior Leaders in Raleigh

By HELEN CUTTING
Supervisor of Playgrounds

found that the normal pool of qualified recrea-

tion leaders was being exhausted rapidly be-
cause of the critical need for manpower in other
recreation agencies, related fields, and war in—
dustries.

The problem facing the local department was
not only one of continuing the normal program
under such conditions but that of extending the
program to meet the impact of war activities.

In some_cases a person untrained or inexperi-
enced in all phases of the recreation program was
forced to serve as a jack-of—all-trades leader. It
was necessary for such leaders to circulate con-
stantly from one activity to another, and it was
becoming increasingly diflicult, under such condi-
tions, to stimulate and maintain interest in a well
balanced activity program. I

The local supervisor, observing a disorganized
unit program resulting from these conditions, sug-
gested that boys and girls on one play area select
a leader from their own group to continue their
activity until the playground leader made her next
round.

The new eXperience proved successful, and this
type of leaders-hip soon Spread to other groups
within the unit. Junior leaders met regularly to
exchange ideas and to learn new activities.

As the need for such leadership became evident
at other centers junior leaders were assigned to
assist with the establishment of similar groups.
Members of these groups at each unit have been

merged into a city-wide organization of junior
leaders.

Membership in the junior
leader organization is open to

all boys and girls between the
ages of ten and sixteen.

MAY 1943

IN JULY .1942 Raleigh, North Carolina, ofiicials-

I!

How to offer a varied activity program
for an average of 9.000 or more partici-
pants weekly was a challenging problem
for the Raleigh Recreation Department.

Candidates for membership are chosen for their
outstanding sportsmanship by the participants.
Final selections depend on endorsements by the
unit staff members in regard to dependability,
aptitudes, and willingness to accept training.

After final approval candidates are recognized
as junior assistants for two weeks. During this
period of trial each serves as an apprentice to a
junior leader after which he is accepted or rejected
by a vote of the junior leaders organization at its
next meeting. Failure to make the grade does not
bar a youngster from having another trial. Failure
has been due to illness or absence from the center
to accompany parents on out-of-town trips.

Training of junior leaders is now offered at the
city-wide staff meeting on Saturday mornings and
is also attended by paid leaders. At this time the
combined group plans activity programs, discusses
problems, and learns new activities. A flexible
program for the following week is planned and
leadership responsibilities for each individual are
agreed upon.

The joint meeting of paid and junior leaders has
proved satisfactory. Adult members of the group
realize that junior leaders have a real contribution
to make since they are more keenly aware of the
interest of the boys and girls.

Experience has proved that the youngsters can
be depended upon to assist with program planning
and conducting activities, to keep play areas well
marked, to assist with special events, and select a
news reporter for the week. The youngster feels
that he is a member of the group and participates
with enthusiasm and responsibility.

The biggest project undertaken by the junior
leaders was the organizing of the Junior Com-
mando Group. These boys and girls collected
scrap and waste fats, kept younger children for
mothers who volunteered for
special work at the Filter
Center and Red Cross Room.
The afternoon newspaper co-
sponsored the Commandos by

59

()0 PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS—I943 STYLE

furnishing armbands and publicity. The play—
ground leaders and junior leaders kept records of
collection, called special meetings and did all or-
ganizing. A Colonel was selected by the leader and
formed his own company of twenty—five. These
Commandos could advance in rank from Private to
Sergeant and on up to Colonel by either meeting
the set amount of scrap to be collected, or by ser—
vices rendered to war workers. Then the Colonel
formed his own company.

A number of boys and girls from different sec-
tions of the city were awarded camperships to
Sherwood Forest, a non—profit low cost camping
program made possible by the VVPA Recreation
Program, the Raleigh and Durham City Recrea-
tion Program, and a Camp Committee of civic
club members. The campers were
selected by the junior leaders and
playground supervisors for their
outstanding Sportsmanship, will—
ingness to assist with playground
program and general conduct.
Over seventy—live youngsters were
awarded camperships. i

This method of awarding camp-
erships proved so successful and
served to enliven interest in the
playground to such an extent that
it will be used again this summer.

A Playground Day
Camp

By TELURA SWIM

Superintendent of Recreation
Piedmont. California

WHEN OUR overnight camps,
which have functioned for

six years and have been one of
the highlights of Pieclmont's rec-
reation program, became impos-
sible under the handicaps of the
present emergency, we substituted
the idea of a day camp, primitive
style, on the \Vildwood Play-
ground.

Each Thursday, from June to
September 15th, we held this
camp. The children arrived at
0:30 in the morning, bringing

 

blankets, utensils, and food for lunch and dinner.
A grill on this ground made the preparation of
hot food possible. i

The opening program was the salute to the flag
and patriotic exercises, followed by very simple
group instruction in hrst aid. After this, hand-
craft held interest until lunch time. The children
cooked their own lunches and a large number of
mothers joined them at the long playground tables
with lunches which they had brought from home.

After lunch the children spread their blankets on
the grass under a beautiful aisle of palm trees for
the rest period, while the mothers engaged in vol-
leyball and basketball, Athletic games followed the
rest period until dinner time at 5 :00, and at 6:00
a group of dirty, happy children left the play-

From Paterson, New Jersey

RECREATION

PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS—I943 STYLE 61

 

ground with keen anticipation for the next camp
day.

During vacation several dramatic broadcasts and
interviews were given to advertise the playground
program. Children from four years of age through
the sixth grade participated with the directors.

Puppetry was an important division of the hand-
craft work on camp days and. was given by an
expert who had exhibited her shows and puppet
making at the “Fair for F orty” at Treasure Island.
This and other camp day activities made attractive
broadcasting publicity for the Recreation Depart-
ment and built up the attendance to an astonishing
'number. .

' This change in our vacation program last sum-

mer proved so popular that we intend to repeat it
in the summer of 1943.

A Roving Play Center
in Salt Lake City

 INTERESTING experiment in establishing play

centers in neighborhoods at a distance from
parks and other organized play areas was made
last summer in Salt Lake City, Utah, when the
Roving Play Center was initiated.

Through the cooperation of the Commissioner
of Parks, Mr. Fred Tedesco, who is greatly inter-
‘ ested in recreation, an old circus wagon belonging
to the Department of Parks and Public Property
was painted inside and out and put into shape for

MAY 1943

immediate use. The Roving Play
Center made it possible to add
four play centers to the list of the
city’s playgrounds.

The wagon was moved by truck
from one location to another, and
‘froving” was limited to the late
evening so that the daily program
would not be disturbed. Inside
the wagon were four tables with
checker boards painted on them,
eight benches, two wooden work-
benches, tools for handcraft, balls
and bats, horseshoes, nets, paints,
paper and pencils, scissors, and
other material.

Last summer the location was
changed every two days. At one
location, under some large trees,
four swings, two teeter boards,
and a sand box were set up. At
two of the stops where electricity was available,
the boys and girls enjoyed an open air picture
show with the department’s 16 mm. movie machine.

Joe L. Christensen, Superintendent of Public
Recreation, reports that the Roving Play Center
was a great success and its arrival was always
eagerly awaited by the children.

After-School Playgrounds
in Reading, Pa.

FOR THE PAST SEVEN YEARS the Department of

Public Playgrounds and Recreation of Read-
ing, Pennsylvania, has maintained after-school play-
grounds under \N PA leadership. When this ser-
vice was discontinued early in 1943, the judge of
the Juvenile Court and the Playground Federation,
made up of thirty-two neighborhood parents’ asso-
ciations, requested the Mayor and City Council to
provide additional funds to reopen the play centers
and provide leadership for them. The request was
based on the increase in juvenile delinquency in
the city.

The response from the City Council was favor-
able, and $2,700 was appropriated to the Board of
Recreation. With this money ten after-school play-
grounds were opened on April 19th to be con-
tinued until June 23rd, for live days a week. The
hours are from 4:00 to 6:00 and from 6:30 to
9 :00 P. M.

62 PLAYGROUND PROGRAJlIS—1943 STYLE

The after-school playground program at these

centers is as follows:

\Veek April 19th—

]. Organize volleyball and softball teams

2. Contact Parents Playground Association

3. Play active games

4. Playgrounds closed April 23rd, Good Friday
\Veek April 26th -—

1. Roller skating contests—April 26th, 4:00 P. M.

2. Play paddle tennis

3. Conduct marble tournaments

W'eek May 3rd—
1. National Music \Veek—encourage singing

2. Rope jumping contest
3. Run—the—bases tournament; softball pitching contest

\Veek May 10th—-
1. Nature Week—play nature games

2. Junior track meet
3. Hopscotch tournament

\Veek May 17th—
1. Wagon and scooter contests

2. Jackstones tournament
3. Dodge ball tournament

\Veek May 24th—
]. Memorial Day patriotic evening, May 28th

2. Tug—of—war contest
3. D01] show

“reek May'n3lst —-
1. Family fun night

2. Stilt contest

3. Dress up show
Week June 7th—

]. Hold hobby show

2. Fox hunt

3. O’Leary contest

\Veek June l4th-——-

1. Hold Flag Day exercises
2. Flower show
3. Bicycle rodeo
\Veek June 215t—
‘1. Scavenger hunt
2. Check supplies and equipment
3. Spring playgrounds close 23rd.
4. Summer playgrounds open June 24th.

Fiesta in Columbus

By EDWINA Wooo
Recreation Superintendent

HE PLAYGROUNDS in Columbus, Georgia, car—

ried out “A Good Neighborhood" program
during the summer of 1942. The theme was
selected by members of the staff several months
before. Each playground chose a country of South
America and each leader was asked to read up on
that country, noting such characteristics as games,
music, handcraft, mode of dress and anything that
could be worked out on a playground.

The leaders entered into the research enthusi-
astically and with fine results. The handcraft was
most interesting and the folk games played were

i attractive. Altogether we

felt that the children
Here had a happy time and,

Columbus, Georgia. also celebrated "I Am An
American" Day with a colorful pageant.

Uncle Sam and Miss America review the 48 states.

 

RECREATION

PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS—1943 STYLE 63

as a by-product, had gained worth-while infor-
mation.

Each playground gave a demonstration on its
own area and invited mothers and neighbors. Then
all playgrounds came together the last of the sum-
mer and presented a Fiesta. We chose a spot on
one of our playlields for the final performance.
Each playground had its own booth, Hying the Bag
of the country which they represented and display-
ing handcraft. Some children were designated to
stay in each booth to act as “so-called salesmen."
Others moved to and fro from booth to booth as
“would-be buyers.”

The children participating in the program were

grouped around each booth and the booths were ar-“"“

ranged in a semicircle which
served as a background for the
Fiesta.

Leaders and children were all
simply costumed. We used a
public address system to keep
the audience informed as to
what country was performing
and what was being presented.
Each leader wrote a simple pro—
logue describing the country her
playground represented. We
afterwards displayed the best of
the handcraft in one of the big
show windows downtown.

The pr0gram was successful,
first from point of enjoyment
and then for the information
gleaned.

I.

  

d I‘ . K
= a :5 ‘
a \

  

The Program
“Down South America Way”—

Song by Rose Hill children representing Bolivia

Dance—By Chilean children from Peabody Play-

ground

F lag Drill—Red, white, and blue colors of Para-
guay, by the Oglethorpe Playground

Golden Cornstalk Goes Home~—Play acted by
children of East Highland Playground

Tango~—Dance of Argentine, done by Rose Hill
Heights

Historical Pageant of Peru — pantomimed by
Spanish, Indians, and Peruvians from Linwood

Mexican Hat Dance—National Dance of Mexico,
danced by St. Elmo’s children

“Tecolote de Guana”—-—Spanish song sung by two
Venezuelans from East Highland

Shinny—Game played in Colombia—McIlhenny
Playground

MAY 1943

 

WWW-s};    7- -‘~--

La Conga —— Danced by Rose Hill children as
danced in Bolivia 1

“South of the Border”——Song of Mexico, sung by
St. Elmo Playground

Rhythm Orchestra—by VVynnton children repre-
senting Brazil ”

Indian Dance—from Ecuador—danced by North
Highlands

‘TCielito Lindo”—Song\sung by Oglethorpe Play-
ground as Paraguayans

La Conga—danced as in Brazil by the Wynnton
children

The Donkey— Story pantomimed by children of
Ecuador from North Highland Playground

H Dance—Fiesta dance from Colombia by McIlhenny

Playground
Historical Pantomime -— Christ
of the Andes— by Peabody
and Rose Hill Heights
America the Beautiful——
Ensemble

Dearborn Converts
Vacant Lots for

Child ren

By HENRY D. SCHUBERT

Superintendent of Recreation

ECAUSE of the great number
B of mothers who have left
their homes for war work, the
city of Dearborn, Michigan, is
faced with the necessity of deve10ping neighbor-
hood organizations to share in the task of super-
vising the play and activities of children at the
city's tot lots. ,

During the 1942 summer season eight tot lots
were placed in operation in scattered residential
sections throughout Dearborn. The city acquired
these tax delinquent vacant lots and many others
for recreational purposes through a scavenger sale
held in 1940 by the State Land Office Board. These
play lots are comprised of two to ten city residen-
tial lots varying in size from 35 X 100 feet to 50 X
I40 feet each. ,_

The eight tot lots used last summer have all been
landscaped with shade trees and shrubs and en-
closed with cyclone fencing. Signs prohibiting the
playing of ball are posted at each of these areas.

64 PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS—1943 STYLE

Tot lots now in use
have play appara-
tus installed in-
cluding slides,
swings, teeters,
sand boxes,to—
gether with picnic
tables and outdoor
grills.

Fathers, moth-
ers, and older
brothers and sis-
ters bring small
children to these
tot lots at all hours
of the day. Many
bring their lunches
during the noon‘
hour and at eve—
ning mealtime.
Families also pre-
pare hot foods on
the grills.

Because of the
popularity of the
tot lots the Recreation Department has completed
plans for the establishment of ten new play spaces
during the present season. Landscaping on these
new sites was completed during the fall and win-
'ter, and the children’s play apparatus is ready to
be installed. This will give the small children of
Dearborn eighteen tot lots for outdoor play.

It is interesting to note that residences adjoin
each of these play spaces. After the program of
last season, residents in other sections of the city
began inquiring when their areas would be served
with similar advantages for their children.

A special leadership institute is being held to
teach parents and volunteer leaders methods of
child psychology and methods of presenting games
and simple craft projects.

Since these tot lot areas are intended primarily
for preschool children, and because they serve as a
substitute for the backyard or family lot, the city

has acquired additional property for older children
in the various neighborhoods.

"You ltnow that the boy and girl who today is
thirteen. fourteen. fifteen, cannot wait tive. ten.
twenty years until we convince the public of his needs
so that sulticient moneyI leadership. and a com-
pleted program will be forthcoming for his summer
Iiving."—Louise Adler in Adventuring Together.

 

Courtesy Board of Recreation Commissioners, East Orange, N. J.

In a City of Homes

By WILLIAM H. RENISON

Supervisor of Recreation
San Marino, California

URS IS A CITY of homes where community
0 spirit is emphasized and where a well-bal-
anced recreation program is conducted twelve
months of the year for the 10,000 citizens. Ap-
proximately 1,500 children between the ages of 8
and 16 years attend our all—community recreation
center.

San Marino city playground is considered by
many authorities as one of the best equipped rec-
reation centers in the country. \Ve have two turf
football fields, gymnasium and track, four outside
asphalt basketball courts, live baseball diamonds,
two volleyball and three tennis courts, two hand-
ball courts, an outside skee-koe, broad jump and

high jump pits, two asphalt games courts and three
outside badminton courts.

Our special summer playground program is well '
attended. \Ve begin the annual play school with

(Continued on page 100)

RECREATION

Powwow on the Playground

By LOUISE MARTIN KOSTENBADER

NDIANS! A word to stir the
I imagination. A word that
intrigues any youth from
nine to ninety. It suggests an
endless variety of activity, cere-
monies, and crafts, all of them
highly adaptable to a recrea-
tion program. Is there anyone who hasn’t played
Indian, at one time or another—tracking imagin-
ary animals, screaming war whoops, or gathering
’round a campfire for a council of war?

Our Newark playground unfortunately had a
serious problem of attendance and we needed a
new interest to draw the children. Two blocks
away was a swimming pool which offered cooling
inducements on a hot day. Also close by was a
beautiful park, green and inviting. Quite naturally
the youngsters trooped over there to play rather
than to the playground. The problem was not only
to attract the children but also to hold their inter-
est. Perhaps Indians would turn the tide!

It all came about when the neighborhood library,
which often entertained groups in its garden with
talks about books, chose Indians as the topic for
one afternoon. I heard of the program and per-
suaded some interested youngsters to go over to
the garden ,with me.

 

MAY 1943

The spirit of the American Indian has
something proud to teach children. It
can symbolize for them loyalty and
strength. sportsmanship. and the fun
of friendly competition. And it will
l<eep young Indians out of mischief!

\Vhy not carry over this
worth-while book talk? But
what could we do? Certainly
the program must have action
and competition and it must
make the participants feel that
they are acting like real In-
dians. Then and there we thought of an Indian
Powwow.

Each prospective warrior must have a tribe to
join and a tribal feather to wear. There would be
four tribes: Blackfoot, Iroquois, Navajo, and
Sioux. Feathers could be cut from poster paper,
using a different color for each tribe. White crepe
paper bands would hold the feathers in place.
When the children arrived in droves, as we fer-
vently hoped they would, they were to assemble
in one long line, count off by fours, receive appro-
priate war plumes, and march off to find their
chiefs.

The four chiefs would be appointed ahead of
time. Every playground has a number of “stand-
by” boys, and from them four could be chosen.
Large signs with the name of each tribe were made
to mark the four encampments.

Clutching his feather and band, each child would
present himself and his services to his chief. The
tribal head would
solemnly tie on
the feather and
the band, thus
transforming the
youngster into a
warrior of the
tribe. All would
then join hands,
form a circle, and
sit cross-legged
on the. ground
until the games
began.

The Powwow
sounded exciting
enough on paper,
but the big prob- ‘
lem was to entice

(Continued on
page 107)

65

    
     

Recreation
Goes

Dramatic

 

The universal appeal of "play-
acting" and its educational
value provide a creative theme
for this article which is re—
printed from The Physical

Educator, JuneI I942. with the
kind permission of the editors.

 

ODAY ox HUNDREDS of play-

grounds all over the country

boys and girls are experienc-
ing the excitement, fascination
and educational possibilities found
in recreational dramatics. No other activity offers
children as many opportunities in self-develop-
ment along with wholesome pleasure as does the
activity of recreational dramatics. This is because
dramatics as an activity involves the use of so
many other arts, such as handcraft, storytelling,
music, and dancing. i

Play is always serious to children. When play-
ing they are living on their highest level, for in play
more actual thinking. goes on than in any other
phase of their lives. For proof of this just watch
small children in creative play where they are un-
aware of your presence. The earnest and concen-
trated expressions which Heet across their faces are
at once both fascinating and puzzling to the aver—
age adult who has through years acquired a poker
face or limits his facial expressions.

Dramatic play is that form of childish make-
believe that centers around a social experience. It
begins when a child pretends to be something or
someone he is not, or pretends tobe doing some-
things he is not doing. " i "F. J,

“Play-acting,” and “Informal Dramatics,” terms
used generally for a type of dramatics, are perhaps
two of the most popular means of dramatic play.
Other types are Pantomime, used for tiny tots as a
medium in develoliing self-expression; and Formal

66

By GLORIA HARRISON

Traveling Director of Recreational
Dramatics

Los Angeles City Schools

|
"“ «.mu

MIL

Courtesy Wyomissr'ng, Pa., Grade School

Dramatics, used primarily with children of Junior
High School age and older. The latter type in-
volves the use of written scripts, stage scenery,
lighting, costuming, and makeup. It also calls for
a more finished production than other types.

Pageants and Festivals are types of dramatic
play which call for the participation of large num-
bers of children and the addition of music, dancing,
drills, mass groups, along with pantomime and dra-
matic staging. Because of this, and that the effect
must be one of splendor and brilliance, pageants
and festivals are more diflicult to produce.

Each of the above mentioned types of dramatic
play offers a particular benefit from an educational,
physiological, cultural, and sociological standpoint.
Until recently little. thought had been given in our
public schools and'on our playgrounds to the ad-
vantages offered through dramatic play. For many
“dramatics” is nothing more nor less than learning
how to recite a pretty piece with gestures. There
has been little concern with that more stimulating
and satisfying type of dramatic activity which we
know as “recreational.”

From the recreational side there is the pleasure
of adventure in the imaginations of the children
through dramatics and creative play. Through
“play-acting” small children lose their shyness, gain

RECREATION

RECREATION GOES DRAMATIC 67

self—confidence, develop poise, dignity and charm,
acquire and develop a vocabulary beyond their
years, develop muscular and mental coordination,
acquire grace and a clear speaking voice through
this activity.

Recreational Dramatics offer a new and fasci—
nating world for children. Lines are not drilled
into the minds of children as in a school lesson,
but the story of the play and the idea of the dia-
logue is learned. The story given by the children
in a play—form is informal, imaginative and quite
like the old popular game of “Let’s Pretend.”
Every child spends three—fourths of his child life
in the game of “Let’s Pretend”; no wonder the
appeal of drama in one phase or another is uni-
versal. As man’s first means of communication
was through the art of pantomime, to make known

his wants, it naturally follows that acting is one ,

of our oldest arts.

Primitive man employed dancing and music in
the worship of his deities. It is almost certain
that poetry was added to these
ceremonials and when pro-
perly developed he added dia-
logue. With the addition of
dialogue he was well on his
way toward civilization. He
did not have to learn these
things from anyone else, they
were instinctive with him.

The promotion of the activity'of dramatic art is
very simple once the many opportunities for self-
development have been taken into consideration.

The educational value of dramatics is apparent
when children learn their lessons in literature, his-
tory and other studies through the dramatization
and participation in creative dramatic play. Enact-
ing stories based on history, science, literature, to
name a few, brings to the child’s mind an indelible
impression of a lesson to be learned. Without con-
sciously realizing it, through the art of extempori—
zation, children develop and acquire a vocabulary.
Children learn the importance of sharing, of “give
and take,” through cooperating and working to—
gether in rehearsing the play as a whole. To these
may be added the development of tolerance, sports—
manship and patience.

The character of a child may be easily influ-
enced by his playmates. To assume that he gains
only self-expression and a medium for an emo-
tional outlet through his participation in recrea—
tional dramatics would be to considerably limit this
rich activity. The association of children with one

MAY 1943

"The sense of play-acting is~developed
very early in children and springs quite
naturally from the sense of play. They
enjoy their own made-up games and
plays themselves—they enjoy acting them
out for their elders."—Jobn Fartar.

another, their teamwork in “play—acting” tends to
teach children cooperation, understanding of per-
sOns and things through character portrayals in
plays, to develop patience, self-discipline, and a
better sportsmanship.

The wealth of play material which is available
for recreational dramatics and its apparent effect
on the child’s mental development tends to serve
also as a character influence.

Through observation of dramatic groups we have
watched timid children slowly acquire self-confi-
dence, and the exhibitionist gradually lose his air
of braggadocio and become an emotionally normal
child.

The importance of recreational dramatics and its
direct and indirect effect on children form an emo—
tional, physical, mental and spiritual development
which cannot be considered too lightly.

Because of the great social and racial strata
which participate in the activity, of dramatic art,
it contributes to the ideology of democracy.

Physiologically d r a ma t i c
play stimulates mental and
physical alertness, the coor-
dination of both mind and
body and very often corrects
speech defects and nervous
mannerisms.

Through the‘ correlation of
music, drama, dancing, costuming and art crafts a
culture and a knowledge of the cultural arts is
obtained.

In listing the educational advantages to be de-
rived from the activity of dramatic art nothing was
given of the pleasure value which it affords. The
joy which children receive from play—acting is dif-
ficult to measure. The joy is natural, spontaneous
and wholly satisfying, The fact that children live
vicariously the many characters they portray gives
them a better understanding of human nature. To
play the role of something or someone you are not,
has a tremendous fascination for both young and
old

To be in a play or to play the game of “Let’s
Pretend” with some child, is indeed a rich experi-
ence, one which none should miss.

“The reason why children impersonate so many
and such various things . . . is that all the world
seems to them to be alive. Thus all their dramatic
play is social in a sense ; they are all true citizens
of the world, and every object that interests them
is their friend and playmate.”-——Joseph Lee. ’

Al: Burlingame’s Play Centers

Mother-volunteers help to run a suc-
cessful play center and children's
theater in this California community

" ow MUCH TIME. can you give us 5‘”
H This is the question asked of the mother
who brings her child to the preschool play
center established by the Recreation Department
of Burlingame, California, where no charges are
made, but payment takes the form of service con-
tributed by the mother.

The preschool play center was organized in the
spring of 1942 mainly to release mothers of young
children for Red Cross classes, A.W.V.S. work,
and similar activities. Any child in the community
from three to five years old is eligible to attend the
center, which is open from Monday through Fri-
day, from 9:30 to II :30.

A child may attend two days weekly, plus an
extra day for every day’s ser-
vice its mother gives the Rec-
reation Department
or other group such
as the Red Cross or
Scouts. Mothers in
large numbers take
advantage of this
plan and volunteer
for many hours’
work at Recreation
Department head-.
quarters, at the
Children’s Theater,
and at the play cen-
ter itself. These vol-
unteers and the
A.\V.V.S. assist-
ants who serve at
the center are given
in-service training
by the director of
the center.

Most of the fur-
niture and equip-
ment at the center
was donated by the
schools and indi-

68

This volunteer helper has two small sons
of her own at the preschool play center

 

viduals. Some money was given for the purchase
of equipment, but much of it was made from used
materials by staff members and volunteer workers.
The large hollow blocks, for exarriple, which are
by far the most popular equipment at the center,
were made from old ping-pong tables and painted
in bright colors. A playhouse and outside storage
room was formerly one of the sturdy little houses
used by the city to cover large pumps and meters.
This was a contribution of the Water Department.

Red Cross volunteer nurses inspect the children
daily and no child is allowed to.mingle with the
other children if for any reason he misses this ex-
amination or shows symptoms of illness. As a
further precaution, the city health officer has made
careful inspection of facilities, has given instruc-
tion in the proper sterilization of the children’s
drinking glasses, and has made suggestions for
keeping facilities sanitary and safe. These health
measures are most important and no colds or con-
tagious diseases were ever found to have started at
the play center.

\Vliile most of the children’s
play is out of doors,
two ad oining rooms
of the recreation
building have been
furnished and equip—
ped for use on bad
days, Adjacent to
the building is an
abandoned paddle
tennis area which
makes an ideal play
space. The surface
is level and dry, and
since a high fence
still surrounds the
court, the children
are safe. In this area
are found a play-
house, a sand box
and other equip-
ment consisting
mainly of boards,
large hollow blocks,
housekeeping arti-
cles, chairs and
table, and some

RECREATION

AT BURLINGAME’S PLAY CENTERS 69

 

Children from the workshop group made this scenery

wheel toys such as bug— from unbleached muslin and painted it with texo- a part in the play if the
gies, tricycles and lite. They made all the props from waste material. Story cans for extra,
and wagons. fairies, villagers, or
The day’s program in the preschool play center gnomes. In plays with limited casts, two children
is as follows: are cast for the same role, each taking part in at
Health inspection least one performance. If necessary, a second play
Hang UP Coats and Put away blankets is cast at the same time so that all who wish may

(Children bring blankets and take them home daily)

Pour and drink water p artlmp ate' .
Outdoor play__active, creative, large mus C] 6 play The children not only take part in plays but also
Toilet assist in the making of scenery and costumes.
More outdoor play Each actor is responsible for a share in the tech-
Re? I H . . nical side of the production, and many children
Quiet act1v1t1es—stor1es, coloring, singing, rhythms never appear on the Stage itself but are pal-t of the
. stage crew. Costumes are used over and over
carnage House Finds New Use again and are frequently remodeled by the girls
A large carriage house on the property of the in the cast and in the costume department. Since
central recreation center houses the Children’s the theater was established, between 600 and 700
Theater. The garage section is now the workshop; children have taken part in its various activities.
the former laundry, the costume room; and the The plays produced are usually adaptations of
upstairs loft, a miniature playhouse with an audi- well known stories such as “Cinderella,” “Princess
} torinm seating eighty-two children, and a stage 24 and the Seven Swans,” “Catskin,” “Snow White
* feet long and 20 feet deep. The playhouse is used and Rose Red,” “Treasure Island,” and “Rebecca
for all rehearsals and workshop activities, and for of Snnnybrook Farm.” Music for the Christmas
productions having small or minimum size casts. play is usually supplied by a trained choir and the
Plays with casts of more than thirty-five children elementary school orchestra, Folk dancers trained
are produced in the city’s elementary schools. If a by a member of the Recreation Department staff
play is presented in a school auditorium, only two sometimes appear in productions. In producing
performances are given, whereas at the miniature plays as many arts as possible are used on stage
playhouse there are at least four performances. and off.
The children taking part range in age from five \Var conditions have resulted in many additions
to fourteen years, with the average age from nine to the program and have brought about increased
to twelve. All who come to the tryouts are given activity and participation. Additional wartime

MAY 1943

70 AT BURLINGAME'S PLAY CENTERS

activities of the Children's
Theater are along the line of
community service to civilian
defense groups. Children, ap-
propriately costumed, carry
banners announcing bond sales
and salvage drives, produce de-,
fense playlets for adult groups, and make posters
and banners for the civilian defense activities.

Junior Players Club

The Junior Players Club has been formed for
junior high school age boys and girls to serve
civilian defense needs and provide social recreation
for the members themselves. The boys and girls
hold a monthly meeting at which they discuss plans
and enjoy some type of entertainment such as
skits and games. At the last meeting they had a
spelling bee in which they spelled the words back-
wards. The group, which is entirely self-govern-
ing, is responsible for the stage crew and ushers
for all shows. If the chairman of an activity should
fall down on his job, the title and privileges are
immediately taken away by a vote of the group.

As a part of its defense job the Junior Players
club puts on its own plays about such subjects as
hoarding and salvage, and assists at bond sales and
drives of various kinds when their help is re-
quested. Officers are elected semi-annually and
. the officers and committee chairmen have special
supper meetings and parties on their own. These
supper parties, scheduled for every other month,
are held from 5 to 7 :30 P. M. so that they will be
over before a blackout threatens. Each child brings
his own supper and the club supplies extra re-
freshments. There are no club dues but each child
pays for his share of the party with a Io-cent
limit. Games and dances are the order of the
evening.

Six to eight plays, including one or two puppet
plays and defense plays, are given during the
school year, and one is presented every other week
during the summer vacation, in addition to other
special activities.

The Children’s Theater, now two years old, is a
municipally supported project and is a special
division of the Recreation Department, which pro-
vides its operating budget and pays the salary of
the director who is a member of the department
staff.

Each production is practically self-supporting
from admission fees of 10 cents for children and
26 cents for adults, federal tax included. A large

''With our small staff it is difficult for
us to serve all age groups, but as we
draw into the program more and more
interested volunteers. we hope to be

able to serve all."—Sbirley Smith,

Supt. of Recreation in Burlingame.

annual benefit for theater equip-
ment is put on by a lay ad-
visory board of twelve inter-
ested citizens who determine
the operating policies of the
theater and take an active part
in activities, Since the begin-
ning of the war, board members have not 'only
been in charge of the box ofiice, but have acted as
combination hostesses and air raid wardens at each
performance. Board members and parents have
also taken on additional duties in the way of typ—

ing scripts, making costumes, and chaperoning the
children.

City Recreation Program

Burlingame, according to the 1940 census, has a
population not exceeding 16,000, but the recrea-
tion' program in this California city has made grati-
fying progress. The city is very proud of its cen—
tral recreation center—~the old Gunst estate, which
contains a large number of shrubs and trees more
than sixty years old. The estate residence, built at
a cost of more than $100,000, has been remodeled
as an adult service center and other buildings on

the property are being used to house such activities
as the children’s theater. At the present time two

new areas are being developed—one about ten
acres in extent; the other, two acres.

At the present time the staff consists of the
superintendent, one part-time playground leader,
one half-time physical education supervisor and
playground leader, one full-time children’s theater
director, and three special activity leaders, all paid
by the city. The School Department furnishes
after-school leaders for three school playgrounds.

Seventh and eighth grade children are active in
all the current sports, games, and leagues 011 parks
and playgrounds. Social dancing, especially folk
dancing, has been taught for this age group. Dur-
ing 1941 the Recreation Department leaders taught
the children during school time as a cultural unit.
This year, however, in order to serve more chil-
dren teachers are being encouraged to attend the
Department’s folk dancing groups for adults so
that they will 'be able to teach the children with
some assistance from the Recreation Department.
Social dances for children are being held after
school instead of in the evening'this year because
of (limout regulations. The Recreation Department

(Continurd on page 100)

RECREATION

Any Stamps Today?

" TWENTY-FIVE
A cent war sav-
ings stamp will
buy the equivalent of
a dozen bandages for the armed forces. One steel
helmet costs $3.03. Twenty dollars will buy a bat-
tleship flag.” W’ith such simple, easy-to-under-
stand facts playground leaders will explain to boys
and girls this summer the need for buying war
savings stamps, the same kind of stamps they
have been buying regularly in school all winter.
During the school year boys and girls by the
millions have acquired the habit of buying war
stamps every week. In 1941-42 these children pur-
chased over $8,000,000 in stamps. The U. S. Treas—
ury Department has requested the help of all play-
grounds in the country this summer to give boys
and girls a chance to continue this direct partici-
pation in the war.
In conferences be-‘

 

The schools have been doing their part all
winter. Now it's up to the playgrounds!

partment and the Na-
tional Recreation As-
sociation suggestions
havebeen worked out
to help recreation executives and playground lead-
ers organize and carry out a war savings program.

Organization of Program

A sponsoring committee of parents, children,
and leaders will be needed on each playground. If
well organized, this group can enlist the support
of the entire neighborhood and take over much of
the detail work from already-busy playground
leaders.

An immediate job for such a committee is visit-
ing the schools and making certain that all students
know where and when stamps will be on sale dur-
ing the summer. The committee can make an in—

vestigation of the best

day or days of the week
for the sale of stamps.

Boys and girls in York, Pennsylvania. decorated
their Playground Traveling Theater with red, white,
and blue and converted it into a War Stamp booth

tween the Treasury De-

 

72 ANY STAMPS TODAY?

It may be wise to sell stamps on the playgrounds
on the same day of the week which the schools

have been using.

Before schools close the committee will want to
set up the advance publicity campaign with the
cooperation of local newspaper and radio officials.
Posters and other display materials can be made
in art classes or obtained ready-made from local
or state war savings officials. The committee
should also make any other necessary arrange—
ments with these officials, A complete list of state
war savings administrators was published in a
recent issue of the Recreation Bulletin Service,
and a copy of the list may be secured by writing
the National Recreation Association.

A stamp selling booth for the playground will
make a .good craft project for boys and girls. In
the May 1942 issue of RECREATION, Marguerite
Ickis gave directions for making a three—paneled
screen which can be used very effectively as a
playground booth. It may now be necessary to
substitute scrap lumber or heavy cardboard for the
materials suggested in the article which is entitled
“Some Novel Play Equipment.” With all the war
savings publicity material available, it will be an
easy matter to decorate the booths attractively.

A list of war equipment and the cost of each
item has been prepared by the Treasury Depart-
ment to help leaders interest the children in the
war savings program. The equipment ranges from
the 25 cent bandages to a $450,000 fiying fortress
and a $500,000 submarine chaser. Somewhere in
this list every playground can find an item which
it wants to work toward. With such goals boys
and girls on the playgrounds will have an added
interest in buying stamps. The complete list of
equipment with current costs of each item has also
been sent out with the Bulletin Service, and extra
copies are available from the Association.

“Buy a Jeep” Campaign

Highlighting the war saving’s program with a
“Buy a Jeep” Campaign cannot help but stir the
imaginations of playground boys and girls. Any
playground raising $900 within a specified length
of time to “buy a jeep” will be awarded a Jeep
Certificate by the state war savings administrator.
The campaign must have a definite opening and
closing date, and playgrounds must succeed in
reaching their goal within this period. Playgrounds
which qualify should send details of the drive,
properly certified by the superintendent of recre—
ation, to the state war savings office.

Those which make outstanding records, such as
90 per cent of the children buying stamps each
week, will be awarded a Treasury Certificate. Ap-
plication for such certificates must also be made
to the state office. Such an application must in-
clude the following information:

Enrollment at playground

Number buying stamps weekly

Per cent of enrollment buying stamps
Total purchases to date

Name of playground

Date

Many recreation departments have already co—
operated actively in the sale of stamps and bonds.

Members of the staff of the Pasadena, California,
Department of Recreation conducted a five—hour

a variety program in the downtown business district,

selling stamps and bonds as the “price of admis-
sion.” The Alton, Illinois, Recreation Department
sold stamps in the playgrounds last summer every
Monday morning at 10 o’clock.

The Park and Playground Department in St.
Paul, 'Min'nesota, sold bonds and stamps at last
summer’s community sings. So did the recreation
departments in Gainesville, Florida; Newton, Mas—
sachusetts; and Buffalo, New York. Highlight of
the program in Houston, Texas, was a “War Bond
Softball Tournament.” Children and adults bought
$518.60 worth of stamps and bonds in eight weeks
on the Danville, Illinois, playgrounds. In Reading,
Pennsylvania, the program was accelerated by a
war bond slogan contest.

A mammoth athletic tournament was sponsored
by the Memphis, Tennessee, Department of Rec-
reation to promote the sale of war bonds. As a
climax to the program, the ball used in the finals
of the basketball tournament was auctioned off to
the highest bidder for war bonds. It went for

$10,000.

The Department of Parks and Public Recreation
in Phoenix, Arizona, is promoting the sale of war
stamps and bonds among the citizens by selling
them at Sunday afternoon concerts held in one of

the local parks.

These are a few of the ways—many of them
original and ingeniousmin which recreation de—
partments have c00perated in the war savings pro-
gram in the past. This summer, playgrounds across
the country face a new challenge as the Treasury
Department asks for broader and more intensive
programs of cooperation to help raise the money to

win the war.

RECREATION

Day Camping

appreciably by greater utilization of nearby
national, state, county, and municipal park
land and facilities.

“Reputable agencies and individuals interested
in camping are encouraged by the various park
services to make full use of camp sites and facili~
ties on public lands. In many cases these locations
are near enough to communities to make day
camping possible. The accessibility factor will be
important during the national crisis since trans-
portation problems will be encountered. The use
of public parks for day camping is usually granted
to reliable organizations upon proper application
to governing authorities. In most instances the
operating agency is requested to present satisfactory
evidence of its ability to meet certain minimum
standards. These standards in reality are guides
to better camping through consideration of lead~
ership, health and safety precautions, and desir—
able motives of the sponsoring agencies.”

This statement appeared in an article entitled
“Fitness Through Day Camping” by William M.
Grimshaw, which was published in the March 1943
issue of The Journal of Health and Physical Edu-
cation. Mr. Grimshaw’s suggestion about the
availability of camp sites on park lands is borne
out by L. B. Houston, Director of Parks, Dallas,
Texas, who tells of a plan
of c00peration with the Boy
Scout organization of this
city whereby “Close In”
camp sites are being pro—
vided by the Park Board for
camps within walking dis-
tance of the homes of vari—
ous troop members or acces~
sible by established street
railway and bus lines. This,
it is hoped, will make it pos-
sible to continue the camp-
iug program in Spite of the
fact that gas rationing is
making it impossible to use

the Scouts’ regular camp
this summer.

The Park Board has set
aside five sites in public
parks, distributed geographi-

"THE NUMBER of day camps could be increased

MAY 1943

 

"Realizing that camping activities con-
tribute ettectively to the physical and
social well-being of youth, an all-out
effort should be made for their provi-
sion. The success of such an effort
could be realized in part through an

accelerated day camp movement. The
organized day camp has great potentiali-
ties and could assume an important role
in the extension of camping services."

-—-William M. Grimshaw.

 

cally, to serve each section, and has prepared de-
tailed maps which have been incorporated in a
mimeographed camping manual prepared by the
Dallas Boy Scouts and distributed to each Scout—
master.

Although the sites were designated primarily
for the benefit of organized Scout outings, they
will also be available to any organized group of
youngsters who might like to avail themselves of
these facilities.

In issuing the sites the Park Department asks
that the following requirements be complied with
(these requirements have been incorporated in the
camping manual) :

I. Do not cut any trees or shrubs. Dead trees
and limbs on the ground may be used for firewood.

2. Exercise every precaution to prevent tires
which would prove disastrous to the natural beauty
of all of these tracts.

3. Follow your usual high standards in main-
taining good sanitary condi-
tions around the camp sites ;
particularly, in the matter
of disposing of body waste.

4. Require that any tr00p
or troops using these sites
obtain reservations from
your office in order to avoid
conflicts. It may be desir—
able at a later date to re-
quire that reservations be
made through your estab—
lished channels.

5. Be sure that the “Scout—
ers” are restricted to the
park controlled areas shown
on the sketches. Trespassing
on adjoining private prop—
erty could cause serious
trouble.

(Continued on page 106)

Print by Gedge Harmon

73

Storytelling as a Morale-Builder for Children

feeling the nervous ten-

sion that is one product
of the .war. Even American
children, who thus far have
happily been spared first-hand
knowledge of horrors of war,
have these horrors rather cone
stantly kept in their minds by
means of the radio, newspa-
pers, and the conversation of
their elders. They hear and
read of bombings, sabotage, bloodshed. They see
war pictures at the movies. Another factor that
makes for tension is the fact that, in all too many
cases, the child’s home is not the best possible for
his well-being. Often, nowadays, both parents
work, being away long hours and leaving the chil—
dren of the family to look after themselves. or in
the care of some person unfitted for the task.

This is inevitable; the result of present condi-
tions, in our warring world. But it places a heavy
responsibility upon the shoulders of those men and
women who have been trained to work with chil-
dren, guarding their health and endeavoring to
develop them physically, mentally and spiritually,
-by means of recreational activity. we must do all

C IIILDREN everywhere are

 

74

By DESSA M. FULTz

Recreation Director

Los Angeles City Schools

This article' reprinted by courtesy of
the editors of The Physical Educator,
appeared in the January I943 issue of
that magazine. Our readers may recall
that the August I942 issue of Recrea—
tion contained the articleI "Storytell-
ing Steps onto a Suitcase Stage."
of which Mrs. Fultz was coauthor.

that we did before our coun-
try was at war, plus the im-
mensely important b u sin es s
of keeping up the children’s
morale.

Just what do we mean by
morale? Well, that depend-
able authority, Noah W eb-
ster, defines it as: “The moral
condition, or the condition in
other respects, so far as it is
affected by or dependent upon
such moral factors as zeal, spirit, hope, confidence,
etc.; mental state of a body of men, an army, and
the like."

This definition makes it sound important. It is.
It has always been considered of great importance
by military leaders. Napoleon is quoted as having
said that ninety per cent of a soldier’s efficiency
depended upon his morale. If this was true in his
time, it is doubtless true today. And if it be our
duty to do what we can to keep up the morale of
our fighting men, it certainly is no less our duty
with respect to the generation of children for whose
right to. live in a decent world these men are fight- '
ing. We dare not allow those who are going to
have to cope with the world problems which will

‘1'"

Fantasy Recreation Department, Austin, Texas

RECREATION

STORYTELLING AS A J’IIORALE-BUILDER FOR CHILDREN 75

follow the war, to suffer a let-down in morale now,
in this, the formative period of their young lives.
\Ve must do all in our power to see to it they have
“vim, vigor and vitality,” not merely of body, but
also of spirit.

How? Here is where the trained storyteller finds
a golden opportunity. Any fairly intelligent person
can tell a story after a fashion, but it takes years
of training to do it so as to get the best results.
The average child has a vivid imagination. The
aim of the conscientious storyteller is to direct that
imagination into the proper channels, instilling in
the young listeners emotions that will inspire them
with a desire to be brave, honest, kind, loyal and
patriotic. It can be done. It is being done, in
countless cases, as every successful storyteller has
had experiences to prove.

I, myself, have had many. For instance, when

I was visiting one of our playgrounds recently, I
was halted by a pleasant voice

calling: “Hello, Story Lady!”

I looked up. The speaker, a
tall young man in army uni-
form, impressed me as vaguely
familiar in appearance.

“You must be one of my
story-hour boys grown up,” I
guessed.

“You bet I_ am,” he an~
swered. “I used to sit on the ground at your feet
when there weren’t chairs enough to go ’round—
', and I’ll do it now if you’ll tell me the story of ‘The

Jawbone Telegraph,’ or ‘The Sardinian Drummer
Boy,’ or ‘The Red Badge of Courage.’ It’s funny!
I’ve never forgotten those stories.”

I asked him why he hadn’t.

He thought a minute, then said: “\N ell, I sup-
pose it must be because the boys in those stories
were very brave.”

A younger boy, listening-in, spoke up. “That’s
the reason I like "I he Broken Note’ the best of
any story. That Polish boy wasn’t afraid to blow
that trumpet, even when he knew the Monguls
would kill him.‘ After I heard that story, I read
the rest of the book, The Trumpeter of Krakow.
It’s swell! And say! I just bet you the Poles get
their country back from Hitler—the same as they
got it back then. And I think anybody who’d
heard that story would be ashamed to be a coward,
or not to be willing to do all he could for his
country. I’m buying war stamps and collecting

while the story

scrap for the government now; and when I’m old -

enough . . .” He paused to give the young soldier
MAY 1943

"I believe storytelling to be not only a
folk-art but a living art . . . it lives only
is being told. True.
child or adult can sometimes go to a
book and read the story again for him-
self; a good and an abiding thing to do.
but not the same thing."-—Rutb Sawyer
in The Way of

an admiring look, “W’hen I’m old enough,” he
repeated, “I’ll be a soldier, too.”

To one who has had such heart-warming ex-
periences as the one I’ve related, it is somewhat
exasperating to hear people speak of storytelling
as if they regarded it as mere entertainment for
children. Of course it is entertainment. But not
mere entertainment. Rightly done, by a storyteller
who loves his work, it is character-building.

A question often asked is why children are told
stories rather than encouraged to read for them—
selves. The answer is that no one denies the fact
they should be encouraged to read. But to the
beginning reader the- effort it takes to follow print
occupies so much attention it interferes with the
free range of imagination. Until he has learned to
read easily, the child cannot change places, men-
tally, with the hero of the story to ride away on a
magic carpet to thrilling adventure. He cannot
assume the role of the story-
character. and perform brave
deeds, solve mysteries and
rescue people in distress. In
short, he misses many of the
emotional reactions the story-
teller wishes him to experi-
ence.

They are great posers, chil-
dren; and one of their com-
monest poses, especially with small boys, is that of
stoic. The average small boy will assure you he is
not afraid of anything. Not he! Bring on your
danger! See if he’s scared! Bless his heart. he is
afraid of many things. His very braggadocio is a
cover for fear. Somebody has said: “Man’s life
is an alternating day and night; the sheer joy of
living, then the shadow of doubt. One moment is
exultation, one moment despair.” This was written
of the adult human, but I think it more nearly de-
scribes the see-saw moods of children, who do not
understand why.their spirits go up, then down.
Their bewilderment frequently leads to what we
call uvenile delinquency. We can be thankful that
they are so apt to see themselves, mentally, in the
role of their favorite story characters, because that
gives the storyteller an opportunity to direct their
thoughts into wholesome channels.

It is not necessarily or solely from stories of
courage that children have been cured of some
particular fear which weakened their morale. A
friend told me that, when he was a little boy he
was terribly afraid of snakes. Then he heard some

(Continued on page 98)

the Storyteller.

Substitute tor a Saloon

 

By PENCE JAMES

street corners at night and that girls and their
escorts go into saloons. They do so only be—
cause there is no place else to go.

IT ISN’T FROM CHOICE that boys hang around

This is an axiom in VVatseka, Illinois. Because
of it, the Youth Center was opened in the exclu-
sive Iroquois Club building. How the people of
this community decided to do something about the
saloon-youth problem and then resolutely did it is
a story worth telling.

Until December I, 1942, the Iroquois Club of
“'atseka was a kind of downtown country club.
In its $50,000 colonial-style brick building, a block
“Pf the main street, those with means met for rec—
reation and social activities. They had bowling
alleys and ping-pong tables in the basement, a
lounge and billiard room on the main floor and a
ballroom on the top floor.

The Iroquois Club is more than twenty-five
years old. In recent years it had declined, the
depression rubbed off much of the exclusiveness,
and the gay, carefree atmOSphere dissolved. Eventu-
ally activities dwindled to virtually nothing.

76

The story of a unique
youth center at Watseka. -
IllinoisI is told here in
extracts from articles writ-
ten by a staff correspond-
ent for the Chicago Daily
News. Story and pictures
are reprinted by permis-

sion of the publishers of
the Daily News.

Chicago Daily News Photo

In the meantime high school students were con-
gregating in saloons—-—which, despite the fact that
they are comparatively harmless spots in Watseka,
are hardly the proper atmosphere for high school
youth. Boys stood on the street corners in the -
evenings not knowing what else to do or where
else to go.

The darkened rooms of the saloons worried
parents, police, teachers and ministers. They de-
cided to act, and looked to the Iroquois Club.

$3,000 Needed for Project

It was decided that $3,000 would be needed for
the project. This amount and more was quickly
subscribed, principally by businessmen. Even the
saloon owners contributed.

With the money safely in hand the committee
approached the Iroquois Club management on the '
use of the club facilities. A financial arrangement
was worked out so that the Youth Center would
contribute $2,250 a year and the Iroquois Club
$750 and the building to the cost of maintenance.

The appeal of belonging to “a club” caught hold
i111n1ediately. Membership cards for $1 a year were
issued to all high school students who applied.

RECREATION

SUBSTITUTE FOR A SALOON 77

And the Watseka Youth
Center was launched to
combat the saloon and the
night club menace.

“This Youth Center,”
said Mayor H. W. Brad-
shaw, “is the best thing that
ever happened to VVatseka youth. It’s cut down
delinquency noticeably. Young pe0ple are all right
and will behave themselves if you give them some—
thing to keep them busy.

“The Youth .Center is the answer to the prob—
lem. We’ve had so much success with it here that
other near-by towns have sent committees to in—
terview us and investigate our methods.”

The Mayor was standing in the front entrance
lobby of the clubhouse. High school boys and
girls were coming in the door, stopping at a desk
behind which sat Meta Kielsmeier, secretary of a
dairy products firm and one of the business women
who have helped make the Youth Center a suc—
cess. Miss Kielsmeier, chairman
of the supervision committee, in-
spected the membership cards of
the students —the only means of
admission to the Center.

Open Three Nights a Week

It was Tuesday night—one of
three nights in the week that the
club is open to the high school
students. The hours are 7 to 10.
On Friday and Saturday nights
they come in from 7 to II:30.
The Center is also Open on Mon—
day, Wednesday, Thursday, Sat-
urday and Sunday afternoons. At
all other hours it reverts to the
Iroquois Club for adults.

The boys and girls drifted into
the lounge, where some talked,
some played cards and others,
strangely, did their homework.

Some, both boys and girls, played
pool in the billiard room.

Wetseka's high school students
bUIH' their own soft drink lounge

complete with gaily-colored booths

MAY 1943

"No teen age boy or girl in America should
grow up afraid of the future. We must help
them to meet it, and to know how to face it as
it comes—realistically and intelligently. The
'terrible teens' of today will weave the pat-
tern ot the world of tomorrow. We want the
warp and woot of that pattern to be strong
and beautiful." — Virginia M usselman.

toys and girls were down-
stairs bowling and playing
ping-pong. Others were on
the top floor dancing to the
tunes of a never—stop juke
box, which required no
nickels for operation.
Always there is an adult
present—very inconspicuous. The evening belongs
to the youngsters, and the adult chaperon, by rule,
“must be in sympathy with the ideals of the

“ Center.”

In a former kitchen on the main floor is a coke
bar built by students in the industrial arts class of
the school. There are gaily painted booths con-
structed by pupils. The curtains at the windows
were made by sewing classes. In this way the
students were made to feel that the club really
belonged to them. Proceeds from soft drink sales
go to school activities.

(Contimwd on page 110)

 

Chicago Daily News Photo

Free Nations Mobilize Community Forces

\\'artime Recreation Con-
ference held in December.
104.2. under the auspices of the

|.\ .\X ADDRESS at the Chicago

('hicago Recreation Commis-
sion. Miss L'harlotte “’hitton
of Canada spoke of the re-
markable rec‘ord made by England in the produc—
tion of war nuaterials.

“llow has she done it? In her tremendous na-
tional unity. of Course, in the refreshing pride of
her task. in her deep realization of the horror of
an :mthoritarian future. lint let Ernest Bevin
speak. in part, of where the answer lies:

"'We have not paid too great a price. \Ve are
reaping the harvest of the foresight of those who laid

 

Miss Whitton's address appears in
full in Proceedings of the Chicago
Wartime Recreation Conference,
copies of which are available at fifty
cents each from the Municipal Refer-

ence Library. City Hall. Chicago.

the foundation of our social service
schemes which have added to the
virility and strength of the people
and contributed to the manpower
so essential now to defend liberty.’

“And let the reports on in-
dustrial welfare and produc-
tion speak, too. It was found that in a week of
longer than sixty hours for men, fifty-six hours
for women, fatigue outweighed any increased pro-
duction, and so etfort was redirected to saving the
workers’ time and strength by improving trans-
port, to saving human fatigue by improving living
conditions, to saving strain by providing foster
care and meals for dependents of working mothers,
and to developing various projects, especially can-
teen, consultation and recreation
services in close contact with all
works and undertakings.

“The Council for Encourage-
ment of Music and the Arts. sub-
sidized fifty-fifty by the Treasury.
has been responsible for a wide
development of drama, ballet and
music, with remarkable partici-
pation of the people therein. A
thirst for open-air entertainment
is reported—a reaction against
long hours in the shelters, under
blackout, in the factories and I
mines. ‘Ballets for a Bob’-—one i
shilling——-are sweeping lunchtime
audiences for workers, and after- .
noon crowds for active service-
peOple on leave. ‘Music Travel-
lers’ go out to advise local com-
munity and plant groups on or—
ganization of local talent or bring-
ing in feature groups.

“The cinema is brought to the
people by the ‘Celluloid Circus.’

A party of WRENS share their

afternoon "tea" with American ser-
vicemen "somewhere in England"

4mcrican Red Cross Photo

78

RECREATION

FREE NATIONS MOBILIZE COMMUNITY FORCES 79

under which seventy mobile units tour the coun-
try, showing films in village halls and barns, in
‘Midnight Matinees’ in factories, and in mornings
to children. This public venture works in c00pera-
tion with the commercial films.

“Painting has been widely promoted—from en-
couragement to leading artists, artists and ama-
teurs in the services, down through organization
of projects in the factories and schools. Librarians
have been exempted from military services and
library services widely adapted to Special needs,
branch libraries have been set up in schools,
churches, and plants, and libraries have different
hours on weekdays, stay open evenings and Sun-
days, make their cards interchangeable for war
workers and service people, and take books ‘for a
spell’ wherever they are needed.

“Community singing, special choirs, pantomimes '

are encouraged in the shelters, in special plants
and groups, and in the services, with contests held
between them. At the height of the blitz, when
Owen’s Hall was fiattened, 10,000 people, un-
afraid, followed the great orchestra concerts to
Albert Hall. Of the same Spirit was Moscow’s
great orchestra, playing nightly to crowds with
the Nazis within a few miles of the city.

“A ‘Fitness for Service’ scheme Operated in over
230 centers for factory workers, designed to im-
‘prove general health, physical and mental alert-
ness, endurance and general efficiency.

“The radio has come in with itS ‘Music While
You Work’ programs broadcast to the factories in
two half-hour periods daily. ‘Works Wonders’
programs have been evolved in which the workers
take part themselves. The Medical Research Coun-
cil has reported an increase in factory output of
from 6.2 to 11.3 per cent over a measured period
where these Special projects have been introduced.

-“Certainly of marked significance is the Na-
tional Youth Committee whereby the central gov-
ernment shares fifty-fifty with the local authorities
in projects for young pe0ple between fourteen and
twenty years of age, and under which 144 of I46
Educational Authorities of the United Kingdom
are participating. But the Spontaneous Youth
Service Corps or Squads are perhaps among the
most unusual testimonies to the vitality and vim of
a nation under fire.

“Originating in East Suffolk, the idea has Spread

like wildfire and there are hundreds of such groups '

today. They are entirely self-administered ; their
members are drawn from young people, usually at
work, but pledged through their own choice to

MAY 1943

give extra service to the nation through their
‘Youth Squads.’ The first squad organized offered
to undertake no less than seventy-six different
kinds of ’work of national value, from painting
curbstones white, digging gun and searchlight em-
placements, working for the Home Guard, gather-
ing wild fruits, and (the girls) washing, darning
and mending for the Forces and busy workers, to
helping in stores after hours, cutting weeds, clerk-
ing in libraries, and washing windows for work-
ing housewives.

“ ‘The V for Variety,’ says Gracie Fields, ‘has

become as important as the“ V for Victory,’ and

certainly the diversity and extent of Britain’s ser—
vices would seem to reinforce her picturesque"
claim. This, the British Isles have learned under
fire. We, in the more ordinary tenor of our ways,
do not so clearly perceive war’s impact on our
people.

“Staying power today, strength in the long to-
morrow, depend upon the people’s confidence in
the good faith, integrity and humanity of their lead-
ers, and, to the mass of the people, the erection
and maintenance of the community’s welfare pro-
visions have come to be regarded as the outward
symbol of the state’s sincerity. Their continued
defense, their manning—yea, their strengthening
and extension for their day of greatest pressure
in the rebuilding—are then part of this whole fight
for freedom, and a part that will not be glamorous
nor understood as we fight to hold it through grim
days ahead. There will be criticism, doubt, and
discouragement, the way will- be long and the
going heavy, but we, the citizens who are aware
of these far-range values, and the workers who
man operations, all we who have knowledge, and,
in that knowledge, responsibility, must neither
falter nor fail in this salient wherein so much of
the morale of the mass of the p0pulation is en-
trenched.”

In dealing with the causes and preventive aS-
pects of wartime juvenile delinquency, a memor-
andum of the British Government presents the fol-
lowing statement : “One of the best means of check-
ing juvenile delinquency in wartime, as in peace,
is to provide more, and more Varied, social and
recreative facilities to meet the needs and tastes of
all sections of the youthful community—indeed,
this has been proved in places where such provi-
sion has been made and a decrease in delinquency
has resulted—and to challenge youthful exuber-
ance to interest itself in useful service.”

I

Crafts for Servicemen

 

improvised Equipment tor the Army '

By HARRY D. EDGREN

Special Consultant in Physical Training
° and Recreation
School for Special Service
Washington and Lee University

ONE OF THE ASSIGNMENTS given the OH‘ICCI’S

 

-o ., .
"iii v.-  _  ' I v v ’ . iii 7' I I v g‘ ‘

Courtesy Long Beach, Calif., Recreation Commission

1. Musical

\Vires
\Vood
Cans
Nails
Marbles
Sand
Stoves

Gourds
Bottles

in the recreation course at the Army’s
School for Special Service is the task of
making a piece of recreation equipment from ma-
terials found in and around camp. The result was

a very interesting compilation. In a class of four
hundred men recently graduated at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington,Virginia, over one hun-
dred different pieces of equipment were made.

This equipment can be di-
vided into three categories:
musical, indoor, and outdoor
equipment. It is interesting
to note the materials used in
the making of this equipment.

80

"By the simple process of improvising."
is the answer of the alert recreation di-
rector when asked how he is meeting the
difficulties caused by lack of standard

equipment and by wartime demands.

II. Indoor

III. Outdoor
Cans Branches
\Vood Wood
Needles Socks
Thread Sand
String String
Matches Rubber bands
Tin Nails
Paper boxes Rags
Bottle tops
Nails
Cardboard
Rings

An Improvised Xylophone

The student officers made shakers, drums, a
ukulele, tom—toms, horns, a xylophone, musical
bottles and buzukas.

Here are instructions for
making an improvised xylo-
phone.

To construct a homemade
xylophone only a few ma-
terials are needed. Select a

(Continde on page 104)
RECREATION

 Problem
of the Country

 

America's famed sports writer makes
a plea for more and better physical
t training to meet the needs of the
nation's youth—now and after the war

' By GRANTLAND RICE

Reprinted by permission of
North American Newspaper Alliance

 

HERE ARE ENOUGH problems confront—
Ting the country today without trying

to dig up any new§ones. But there is
one we should meet now, and take care of
in future years. This is the matter of far
better physical training and development
on the part of millions of America’s

younger generation.

We have been rated a great athletic nation. But
apparently this has concerned only a small percent—
age of picked people—of stars good enough to
make big-time teams and so draw big crowds at
the gate.

When you find, for example, that out of some
3,000 young recruits over 2,500 have taken prac-
tically no part in sport—that most of these barely
can chin themselves; that they can’t box, wrestle,
swim, play baseball or football with any skill; that
they are quickly exhausted; that they are clumsy——
you begin to get a part of the answer.

I know of one district where, out of eighty—one
draftees, sixty-six were turned down on the'physi-
cal side earlier in the war. There is something
entirely out of focus with our form of athletic life.

What this country must have is enforced athletic
training, nation—wide from the ages of twelve to
sixteen or eighteen. Above all, it should include
hiking, running, jumping, and swimming. Before
the war we were facing a legless country, in which
youngsters lived on wheels.

The program also should include such competi—
tions as boxing and wrestling, basketball and base-
ball. A rough, body-contact game, such as foot—
ball, should not be compulsory before fifteen or six—
teen. Kicking, passing and touch football fit in
nicely—not hard tackling or .blocking.

MAY 1943

 

Courtesy New York City Park Department

I got an eyeful of this poor condition while
walking around with Lieutenant Jack Dempsey of
the Coast Guard. The coastguardmen were vol—
unteers. There were several thousand from all
over the country, They were keen, dead game, will-
ing. But most of them had known little physical
training before they came to camp. I’d say about
four out of five.

As Jack pointed out, “They’ll tackle a bulldog.
But many of them don’t know their left hand from
their right when they first come here, and they
have a hard time chinning themselves just once.

“I never saw a more willing bunch, though. They
just never had a chance to learn. It’s a shame we’ve
had an athletic system that developed a compara-
tively few stars, instead of giving every kid a
chance. It means a lot in more ways than one, and
I don’t mean on the physical side alone, which, of
course, is important. There is likewise the mental
side, which signifies self—confidence.”

Except in a few scattered places this country has
overlooked the training of its youth, and this is
where we should have made the start. Just what
sort of sport we shall have next year no one knows.
But there should be a full program for members of
the younger generation, for you can safely wager
that this country will need them’ badly—either be-
fore this war is over or after it is won.

81

in the Bird World

AVE YOU EVER experi-
H enced the thrill of iden-

tifying a bird you have
seen or heard? There is no
greater pleasure in the realm
of nature or one more inex—
pensively pursued. After a
winter, which in many parts
of the country has been un-
usually prolonged and severe,
and in a time when so many
problems arising from world conditions weigh
upon one, why not tune your ears and eyes to
the world of birds which is all about us?

h

It will require alertness on your part. I have
often been with someone who neither saw nor
heard a bird that was near by, simply because his
eyes and ears were unopened to the world about
him. He would be surprised at my recognition of
the bird—not due to any special ability on my part,
but simply to being on the alert, listening and
seeing. I have often taken high school students on
bird study trips and they are literally amazed and

 

82

By MARGARET L. HAMMOND

delighted when they see the
birds and learn to recognize

"No bird student is ever bored. tor the them-
study of birds is a never-tailing source
of interest. . . . Fortunate is the child
who has been from early days conscious
of this busy world. so unceasingly astir
about us. He has a wealth of memories
to carry, with him through Iite.”—Mar-—
garet M cKenny in Birds in the Garden.

The only equipment needed
for bird study is a pair of
glasses, though if you are
observant you can have many
interesting experiences with- .
out them. The Spring season,
and especially the month of
May, is the best time for
initiating your study, though this is a hobby to be
pursued the year round with pleasure.

Some trips may be uneventful, producing noth—
ing more than the everyday bird inhabitants of your
vicinity, Others will be highly exciting. One early
Sunday morning walk in May promised to be very
uninteresting until I chanced on a flowering locust
tree literal-1y swarming with humming birds. A
summer climb to the top of a bluff beside a lake in
northern Minnesota rewarded me with the sight
of a little male purple finch—really not purple at

.(Continued on page 103)

.s v
’o
0

Courtesy Park Service Bulletin, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

 

By WILLIAM J. MEYERS
Director of Recreation

Omaha. Nebraska

ORE THAN 10,000 PEOPLE raise their voices
M every summer Sunday at Omaha’s mam-
moth community sing. Each week the crowds
gather early to find the choicest seats on the hill-
side turf at Elmwood Park, and promptly at 8:15
the words of “The Slopes of Elmwood” sound the
opening note for another evening of fun and
hilarity. Words and music of this song were
written especially for and about Omaha’s famous
songfests.

Five years ago, through the sponsorship of the
[Vorld—Herald News, these “sings” were inaugu-
rated, and they have since become so much a part
of the summer activity that arrangements must be
made this year to accommodate more “sing loving”
people. What began as an experiment has de-
veloped into an event of such unexpected propor-
tions that last year 145,000 persons attended the
ten sings.

In a letter to an Omaha newspaper, a visitor to
the city eloquently described his impressions of
one of the weekly get-togethers: “I haven’t re-
covered from my astonishment at a view of the huge
crowd working its way as one mass to the vast
tree—framed, downhill slope. The crowd chatted
peacefully on the large stately grass plot far down

MAY 1943

Let's Au
Sing
Together!

1

J

Two sailor lads and their
friends tune up with "An-
chors Aweigh" at one of
Omaha's mammoth commu-
nity sings. More than |5.000
people turned out the night
this picture was taken.

under the starlit sky. One could hear near-by the
dialects of many European languages.

“All of a sudden the magnificent tones of a full
band, and then, during flag raising, at least 15,000
persons singing together, ‘God Bless America.’
. . . The words of the songs shone from a large
screen, A short introduction by the orchestra and
the crowd sang, following the electrically lighted
baton of the recreation director, they swelled to-
gether in entire chorus; or men, women or chil-
dren sang alone in wonderful harmony.”

To conduct and promote a successful sing, it is
necessary to have the active support of a daily
newspaper and radio station, if these are available
in your locality. Advance promotional work and
proper publicity will help to make the sing a city-
wide event.

The type and amount of promotion carried on
by the Omaha W orld-H crald were outstanding.
Weeks prior to the first sing, columns of publicity
and pictures were printed in the paper. Promi-
nent business and professional men were inter-
viewed for statements about this new venture.
Some of them appeared on radio programs where
informal previews of the sing were broadcast, thus
giving the public an idea of the fun awaiting them
at the songfests.

Such catch lines as, ’“Tune up your tonsils,”
“Reaching the high ones real fun,” or “Try a song
workout in your tub today” appeared throughout
the paper, arousing the curiosity of the public and
getting them in the mood for the real thing. The

83

LET’S ALL SING TOGETHER!

S;

smallest details were publicized. Pictures showed THE SLOPE
the director with his special electric baton, beating

out the simpler tempos of popular songs. These "Come to the slopes of Elmwood

pictures were so made that anyone could follow Where a tenor or bass is king!

the beat by watching the electric ball of the song Where sopranos and contraltos

leader’s baton. Tilt up their chins and sing!

 

A map of the park was printed with descriptions Where butchers. bakers and common folk
of the roads leading to the grassy slopes where the Sing to the star studded skies.

RECREATION

LET’S ALL SING TOGETHER!

C on rtes y Omaha H’orld-Herald

sings were to be held. Parking space was made
available to accommodate 5,000 automobiles and
"Where banker. merChanl. and landlord the Police Commissioner assigned thirty-five men
Are "0 beHer “1611 US Olher 'guys.' to handle the anticipated ‘crowd. The public was
So. come to the slopes of Elmwood advised to wear their working clothes or their

Each Sunday night and sing. Sunday suits—bring the family pillows or blankets
Sweethearts. mothers. sisters. brothers. for seats—but come out and sing!
Long may your voices ring." (Continued on page 108)

MAY 1943

 

Sundays-in-the— Parks

HIS Is the story of
Tan unanticipated

probable saving of
7,500,000 motor miles.
It is the story of the entertainment, diversions and
amusement of a quarter million war-weary work-
ers on the home front. It is the story of a com-
munity project devised as a contribution to the

nation’s war effort which already has exceeded by
far the hopeful expectations of those who organ-

ized it. It is the story of Providence, Rhode Island.

and its Sundays-in-the-Parks.

The story is being retold here in detail, and at
just this time, in the belief that other American
communities may profit during the coming sum-
mer from the experience of Providence. And there
is no denying that this spring the need for thou-
sands of similar projects is more evident than it was
in the spring of 1942 when Providence’s venture
was conceived.

_ Providence is an average American city. Let’s
look at it, say, on a normal, sunshiny summer
Sunday back in 1938 or 1939. That was a day
When World War II was as entirely remote in one
direction as the day in 1636, when the eminent
gentleman of that name landed locally on Roger
Williams Rock, seemed in the other direction.

From early forenoon until activities soon after
dusk reached the day’s crescendo, all two-, four-,
and six-lane highways leading from the city were
jammed with pleasure seeking families of a highly
individualized center, all in their own automo-
biles.

As approaching events cast their shadow over
the summers of 1940 and ’41, this form of week-
end diversion stepped upward, along with the rise
in production which gave these families more
money with which to buy better cars and gasoline
and more tires.

Then came Pearl Harbor and the subsequent
happenings which made it a fair guess, a year ago,
that the summer of 1942 was going to be a vastly
different experience for the
quarter of a million people of
Providence, just as it was
going to be for most of the rest
of America. There were new
and different industries, some

86

By J ACK MARTIN

Chairman, Citizens' Sunday Recreation Committee
Providence, Rhode Island

In telling its storyI Mr. Martin states.
the Providence Citizens' Sunday Recre-
ation Committee has no other objective
than to make the suggestion that similar
committees should tind its example easy

. ' (1 to follow, “provided the plan is tailored
of them bringing workers ' to each community's local commons.

from the four corners of
the nation, all to be
added to the home folks
who were having less
and lessweek-day time for relaxing, with only
a few hours on an occasional Sunday to get the
diversion which seems so necessary to send them
back refreshed to their new round of duty on
Monday morning.

The Providence Journal and Evening Bulletin,
Rhode Island’s most widely—read newspapers, have
always been mindful of the problems of the people
they have served for more than a century, and this
new situation was of concern to the publishers. So
it was referred to the news promotion department
and thus to the writer of this article.

Back in the horse-and-buggy days, as a third“ or
fourth grader in a little New England country
town, I had an experience which has stayed with
me all these years— and they are many. In our
town there was a beautiful little riverside park,
and three times each summer everyone in and
around town stopped all other activity to gather
there for a day’s outing. \Ve youngsters used to
Spend two or three days cleaning up the place and
directing a'stage in preparation for the event. \Ve
were glad to do it, for the shows that were put on
made more impression on must of us than any-
thing we have seen since!

Most of the entertainment was by local talent—-
vocalists, musicians, magicians, orators, and the
like. Probably it was on the “corny” side, but the
folks all went for it. And there were always num-

‘bers presented by real talent—a dozen or more

stars of. the Broadway entertainment world who
spent their summers boarding in the country. Some
of the biggest names of the early 1900’s appeared
on our programs. It was all in fun, and I presume
these stars never gave better performances at the
current $2. 50 tops.

Off to a Good Start!
I told Providence’s young Mayor Dennis 
Roberts about these old shows,
and he agreed with me that
folks of the 1940’s were not
so different basically from
those of the 1900’s. We also
agreed that it would be a lift
to civilian morale in our city

RECREATION

SUNDA YS-IN-THE-PARKS 87

if we could give the bound-in-town war workers
and their families some Sunday afternoon diver-
sion during the approaching summer.

With Mayor Robert’s blessing we hand-picked
a committee of prominent men, each of whom we
knew would work and each of whom had some-
thing to contribute to the enterprise. They included
city ofhcials, executives of radio stations and local
theaters, and representatives of civic and social or—
ganizations of all kinds. School and park officials
and judges were also on the list.

Providence has a number of parks well suited to
what we considered our needs for open—air enter-
tainment, and equipped with well-appointed base-
ball and football fields. Among them was beauti-
ful Roger Williams Park with its impressive lake-
side Benedict Monument toMusic. Inasmuch as
Mayor Roberts had given us his hearty approval
and we had Park Superintendent Noonan with us,
selection of our sites was easy. We picked nine of
the parks, including Roger \Villiams which is resi-
dentially surrounded and not too far away from
other residential sections.

We adopted a policy of no politics, a minimum
of war, and nothing to sell, and we decided to
stage three entertainments on
each of thirteen summer Sun-
day afternoons. Furthermore,
we would coordinate into our

An overflow crowd of bound-in-town
citizens turn out for the Sunday
afternoon program at the natural
amphitheater in Roger Williams Park

over—all programs baseball and football games at
the other parks. Our big shows we would put on
every Sunday in the Monument of Music, a mas-
sive white marble structure at the edge of a nat-
ural amphitheater. Two lesser productions would
be alternated in opposite corners of the city, and
baseball would be distributed at other parks as far
as the growing manpower demands would permit.

Thirteen committee members were assigned
chairmanships of each of the Sundays. All of the
rest had other assignments, such as financing, first
aid, policing, professional guests stars, and so on.
As chairman, I coordinated the programs and
directed publicity.

W' e decided not to make a concerted drive for
funds. Money was needed,'but we felt that we
could get along if a few — two or three —— friends
would finance our opening shows. After that, we
hoped we would have been convincing enough so
that volunteer contributions would carry through.
After we had talked to a number of public-spirited
citizens, two of them contributed about a thousand
dollars. Later, and entirely voluntarily, local
Italo-Americans and various others added $800
more in amounts varying from $5 to $100.

It was with some doubt that
the committee approached the.
opening productions. We picked
our two other parks, framed

 

88 SUNDA YS-IN-THE-PARKS

lesser programs for them, arranged rather an
elaborate one for Roger Williams Park, and prayed
individually and collectively for a pleasant July 5th!

Local radio station band leaders placed their
swing bands in the three parks—sixteen pieces at
Roger Williams, and eight pieces each at the
others. we engaged “Happy” Stanley, widely-
known in southern New England as a master of
ceremonies, and gave him the job of handling the
big show. In the other parks, we depended on the
band leaders.

For the main production we had a voluntary
contribution of the show from the Beachcomber, a
Providence night club. For the others we booked
a few available vaudeville acts. An official party
headed by Mayor Roberts was to tour the three
parks. In the party besides the Mayor, the chair-
man of the committee and another member, were
three stage and screen notables, the manager of the
local theater where they were appearing,
and Don Mario, singing band leader.

A sort of back-handed stroke of good
fortune came our way during the days
preceding our opening. Mario and his
band were playing at the Beachcomber
and had volunteered with the floor show.
Being a “traveling” band, permission for
its appearance on our program was denied
by the local musicians’ union. The controversy
which followed served to keep our forthcoming
production front paged for several days. Every-
one knew there would be a show that first Sunday!

The weather was with us, too. A grand holiday
Sunday afternoon found an estimated twenty
thousand at our main show, and another eight
thousand distributed among the other two per-
formances and the baseball games. '

Our Luck Held!

The weather stayed with us right through the
summer. We had only two cancellations, and we
were able to make up for one of these when we
brought our final show downtown to the spacious
State House esplanade at the invitation of Gov—
ernor J. Howard McGrath, resident of Providence,
and one of our most enthusiastic followers through
the summer. That was on an early October Sun—
day, and we moved to the Governor’s doorstep be-
cause there was a mammoth civilian defense parade
downtown that day, and we didn’t want to ask our
folks either to miss the parade or to come out to
the park after it was over.

We were helpe‘d materially by the First Aid

UNITED
STATES

 

Unit of the American Red Cross, which was con-
stantly in attendance with a dozen volunteer work-
ers, a tent, and an ambulance throughout the sum-
mer. They had only minor cases to care for despite
the vast crowds and summer heat, but they were
as steadily on the job as the sun, another of our
highly regarded allies. Jess Cole’s public address
system was another voluntary contribution.

After four weeks we abandoned the neighbor-
hood park programs. We found that everyone in
the city, knowing that the bigger attractions would
be at Roger Williams Park, usually found some
way to get there with their families. The baseball
games and, after Labor Day, the football games,
had their own followers.

We soon found, too, that there were any number
of capable local entertainers, some retired profes-
sionals, some semi—professionals, and some just
good amateurs who would fill our programs. Their
work, inspired by the size of the audience,
more than satisfied our followers. In fact,
the only complaints the chairman ever
heard voiced about the project came frOm
well-meaning folks who for one reason or
another —1nostly lack of time— failed to
get booking with us!

Because of dwindling funds, we cut
down the size of our basic bands toward
the end of the season, but that wasn’t a severe
handicap. The crowds stayed with us. In August
and early September it was a thrill to pass through
the park to the Temple and see countless numbers
of family groups picnicking among the trees, later
coming early for good seats at the show.

We depended upon Superintendent N oonan’s
checkers for our approximate attendance figures,
which ran from slightly more than 7,000 on a day
when a test air raid and mobilization had been
publicized widely in advance to 37,000 on the day
we called “Navy Day,” when the Navy took over
a large part of the program and Navy mothers
were special guests. Mr. N oonan also worked out
the theoretical figures on the saving of gas and
rubber, basing his deductions upon the number
present, the number of pleasure cars per person in
the state, and on the fact that all who attended
were stationary for about four hours and that nor-
mal Sunday driving thereabouts is at the average
of thirty miles per person.

Many stars of stage, screen, and radio made
voluntary appearances while playing at local thea-
ters and vaudeville houses. Some of them made

(Continued on page 106)

RECREATION

Neighborhood Music Nights

W EIGHBORHOOD Music
N Nights,” a happy idea for
the community music
program, is the latest recreational
and morale—building activity to be
initiated in Wilmette, Illinois, as
a part of the Civilian Defense
project.

Daniel M. Davis, director of the Wilmette
Playground and Recreation Board, and com-
mander of civilian programs under the Wilmette
Council of Civilian Defense, is promoting this
idea, together with Miss Mary McKay, Super-
visor of Music in the Wilmette Public Schools.
\Vith an excellent committee composed of pro-
fessional and amateur musicians, they. have
launched a program which bids fair to become a
vital part of Wilmette’s community life.

“Serve through song” is their slogan. “Music,”
they insist, “is becoming more and more a living
part of our national existence and well-being.
Music gives us enthusiasm for a cause; binds us
together with understanding, and takes us a step
forward in promoting the democracy of tomorrow.
Actively sharing with others in the joys of music
gives us a real lift out of the routine of daily liv-
ing, Participation offers friendship as well as
inspiration.”

“Neighborhood Music Nights,” was the name
chosen for this new program. The local weekly
paper, Wilmette Life, gave generous space and
helpful suggestions to interest and inform the citi-
zens about this project. Committee members an-
nounced the plans and objectives at church, club
and parent-teacher meetings. Interested persons
were asked to open their homes and act as host's
and hostesses for a “sing.”

The responsibility of a

 

"Set your hearts singing.
Your home ringing
And Victory winging —
With your Music Committee
of the O.C.D.!"

 

cluded in the music menu for
these meetings.

In preparation for this, the
committee mimeographed a list of
songs, their sources, the pre-
ferred keys and arrangements,
and other details. These were
given to directors and accompan-
ists at a special meeting where the material was
studied to guarantee uniformity of performance in
case the neighborhood groups might ever sing to—
gether at some school auditorium, or at the Wil-
mette Bowl on the shores of Lake Michigan.

Some of the rules governing the meetings follow:

1. Each person must walk to the home where
the Music Night is being held.

2. A good time is to be had by all, with no
refreshments.

3. Meetings are to start at 8:00 P. M. and close
at 10:00 P. M.

The opening meeting was held on Washing-
ton’s Birthday, February 22, 1943, when over three
hundred music lovers met at eighteen different
homes in Wilmette. The enthusiastic response has
been so general that more music nights have been
added to accommodate different groups who were
unable to meet on the specially designated night.
Some groups meet weekly, others semi-monthly,
others every third week and others monthly. Par-
ticipants in this program are adults from 20 to 70.
Some are church choir singers, and others have
some knowledge of singing. This helps to hold up
the harmony for the many others who just “like
music” and are anxious to participate.

These “Neighborhod Music Nights” bring out
the real functions of music: fun, neighborliness,

and morale building. Such a

hostess, who usually had an
assistant, was to invite per-
sons in her neighborhood to
join in an evening of music
participation. Loyalty songs,
friendship and home songs,
songs iof religious faith and
devotion,-songs\ of other lands,
popular songs since the 90’s,
and fun songs were all in—

MAY 1943

"Man is a social animal. He is depend-
ent upon a social environment. He must
learn to live harmoniously with others.
He is unhappy unless he has a feeling of
belonging to a group. It is very sig-
nificant that informal group singing is
usually called community singing. . . . As
we express our common state of feeling
together—all of us expressing the same

emotion through the music—a feeling
of social solidarity is established."—

Harry Robert Wilson in Lead a Song.

program can be duplicated in
any community where the
school supervisor or other
music leader will take the re-
sponsibility of organizing the
committees and getting the
project under way. There is
no limit to its possibilities, for
with all groups singing songs
chosen from a large selection,
(Continued on page 110)

89

"Rich Man, Poor Man, Beggar Man, Thief . . ."

"Make and Mend" Column

UTTONS HAVE ALWAYS held a strange fascina-
B tion for grownups and children, but now they

are coming into their own for a very practical
reason. With dresses becoming plainer and ma-
terials less interesting in wartime, trimmings are
taking a new turn and we are discovering that
buttons can do more to brighten up an old dress

than almost any other ornament.
Of course many kinds of buttons have disap-

peared from the store counters because of war .

shortages, but with a little paint you can dress up
old buttons to look like new. Go through your
button box and see what you have on hand. Then
get out your paints and go to work.

Cover the button first with a coat of white shel-
lac and allow to dry. Mix a small quantity of oil
paint to the right shade and thin somewhat with
turpentine, Apply this to the top of the button and
allow it to dry thoroughly. You may then add any
design you wish in a contrasting color. If the
button is to be washed, protect it with one or two
layers of white shellac.

Carved Buttons

Buttons carved from wood are beautiful. They
can be made in any size or shape, and one also has
a choice of lovely natural colors which can be
found in almost any locality. Here is a list, of pos-
sible woods with their colors: holly, white; maple
or pine, natural; ebony, black; walnut, brown;
mahogany or rosewood, red; cedar, natural marked
with red; basswood, natural (soft for carving).

Nut and fruit pits have been popular as decora-
tive buttons the past few years and are easily
made. Whole nuts can also be used if they are
sorted carefully as to size and shape. A small
screw eye inserted through the shell will enable
you to sew the buttons to a dress or packet. Be
sure the nuts are perfectly dry and shellac them
before using.

Attractive buttons can be made by cutting black
walnuts crosswise into several layers. Smooth the
surfaces with a file and shellac. A small drill will
make the button eyes.

Chessmen are easily made into amusing buttons
by adding screw eyes to the different pieces. The

90

pawns might be used as buttons and a single knight

or. rook added for a neck ornament. Checkers can,

be used in the same manner.

Try making earrings to match the trimming on
your dress. Use old frames of discarded earrings,
prying off the ornamental part and attaching but-
tons to match those on your dress. This is done by
sealing the back Of the button to the earring with
household glue or cement. If you wear a comb in
your hair, it can also be decorated with buttons by

_ using strong thread or millinery wire.

A charming. and colorful button boutonniere can
be concocted from a variety of glass buttons with
some raffia or scrap leather to completethe design.

Selecting Buttons

People are often apt to take buttons for granted
without realizing what care is necessary in select-
ing buttons, For a print dress, use plain buttons
that match the background color. If you have a
dress with a tiny bit of color that you would like
to emphasize, you can do it by adding buttons in
that color. A plain fabric may be trimmed with
buttons of any contrasting color. Wooden buttons
are good with knobly' fabrics and plaid materials.

Buttons can be changed for different occasions.

' One of the large New York department stores is

featuring a silk dress this spring for business
women who want something that can be worn
both for the office and on social occasions. The
distinguishing feature is two sets of buttons that
can be changed by snapping the tops on and off.
There are plastic buttons for the office and floral
decorations for dinner wear. With such a scheme
you may be able to make some of your own dresses
d0 double duty.

And now a word about sewing buttons—there is
a trick to that, too. If buttons will have much use
there should be a “stem” of thread to hold them
away from the cloth. Make the stem by sewing
button loosely and wrapping thread tightly around
the base. Another way is to take the first stitch or
two and then insert a pin between button and cloth.
Sew around the pin, then remove it and wrap the
remaining thread around several times to make
the stem firm.

RECREATION

Natural History in the Making

By

ARTHUR B. WILLIAMS

Curator of Education
Cleveland Museum of
Natural History

0 THE uninitiated my—
I cology is a frightening

word, but to members

of the Kirtland Society of

Cleveland, Ohio, it is the '
alliabsorbing study of fungi,

and only one of the many

aspects of nature recreation

that challenge Cleveland’s

amateur naturalists.

The Kirtland Society is a
by—product of the outdoor
program of the Cleveland
Museum of Natural History
and the Cleveland Metroe
politan Park Board. For x
twelve years these two or— 
ganizations_ have maintained
nature trails and trailside
museums in the parks; they have conducted public
bird walks, geology walks, tree walks, and “mush—
room” walks; their leaders have guided groups on
natural history trips and organized children’s nat*
ural history clubs, Highlight of the year’s pro—
gram has been the Museum’s extensive donkey
pack outfit which explores the Sierra country of
southern California in the summer seasons.

Out of these varied activity groups has emerged
the Kirtland Society—some members are young,
some older, but all are interested beyond the
average in the many fields of natural history. They
have been gathered together under the wing of the
Museum of Natural History, given a headquarters,
and provided with trained specialists from the
Museum staff to direct their research.

The society is fortunate in the possession of a
name which links it with the best traditions of the
past in its community and sets before it an ideal of
attainment. A century ago Dr. Jared P. Kirtland,
Western Reserve’s great pioneer physician, teacher,

MAY 1943

 

’ t .
r... .4.M,X3.Waa.§_” p..__ w,» v s “ Li“

Courtesy Dept. of Public Recreation, Reading, Pa.

The Kirtland Society is a
living tribute to Cleveland's
famed naturalist. Dr. Jared
Kirtland. The purpose of
this group is to foster the
spirit of amateur scientific
' research in natural history.
' and to give the Cleveland
community a better under-
standing of the out of doors.

writer, scientist, naturalist
and horticulturalist, was a
resident of Cleveland. His
home was a mecca for visit-
ing naturalists and scientists
from all over the world.

Throughout his lifetime
Dr. Kirtland was an ardent
student of birds, and when
the first Kirtland Warbler
known to science was found
on the grounds of his home,
it was named Dendroica
kirtlandi by Professor Baird
of the Smithsonian Institute in honor of "a gen-
tleman to whom, more than anyone living, we are
indebted for a knowledge of the natural history of
the Mississippi Valley.”

Dr, Kirtland organized the Cleveland Academy
of Natural Sciences which later became the Kirt-
land Society of Natural Science (1869), and was
merged with the Cleveland Museum of Natural
History in 1927. Now the Museum sponsors a
new Kirtland Society to rekindle the flame of ama—
teur research in natural history in the Cleveland
region.

The present Kirtland Society was organized in
the fall of 1940 by a small group of people who
became its Division of Ornithology. They called
themselves the Kirtland Bird Club, thus setting
the pattern for future clubs; Next came the Kirt-
land Mycology Club, who are known as the “Fun
Guys.” Then came the Kirtland Geology Club,
the Tree Club, the Mammal Club, the Reptile
Club, and the Photographic Club. At the second

 wwma‘ was“? t 

91

92 NATURAL HISTORY IN THE .MAKING

annual meeting of the society all the clubs pre-
sented an account of their projects, illustrated by
exhibits.

Each club operates under its own by-laws, with
its own officers, but all are members of the main
society. The Council of the society, which is its
general administrative body, grants emblems to
members who distinguish themselves in their re-
search.

All of the clubs choose only those new members
who show promise of becoming active workers in
the club’s projects. Usually the club program con-
sists of regular monthly meetings, frequent field
trips, and a special club project in research. At the
present time the total membership is about 150.

As yet it is too early to speak of much definite
achievement, and the war has greatly modified the

activities of the society. Limi-
tations on automobile use

have cut deeply into the ex-
tended field trips. Some of
the most active members are

in the armed forces. Others
are absorbed in war services
of one sort or another in
greater Cleveland. To date
one club has practically had
to suspend operations for a
time. But there is a promise
of things to come in their ac-
complishments.

The Kirtland Bird Club
has organized and conducted

the Christmas Bird Counts
for the Cleveland region for three years. Its mem-

bers lead the popular spring “Bird Walks” con-
ducted by the Museum. All of its members are
regular contributors to the quarterly “Bird Cal-
enclar” of the Cleveland Bird Club, currently
edited by a member of the Society’s Council. Dur-
ing the winter of 1940-41 complete studies of local
wintering bird populations were made on two
areas near Cleveland, During the summer of 1941
club members studied eleven different breeding
bird populations, and under the direction of the
chairman of the committee, five non-members com—
pleted seven similar studies of other areas. During
the summer of 1942 eight similar studies were
made. Most of these population studies and the
Christmas Bird Counts were published in the
Audubon Magazine.

During the winter of 1941-42 a study of the
wintering duck population along the Lake Erie

and swamps. .

"In spring life stirs again in the ponds
. . It is the season when
the flower parade begins to dot the brown
earth with its colorful membersI when
mosses and ferns carpet the floor with
fresh greeness. when butterflies emerge
from their chrysalid armor and crawling
caterpillars become graceful fliers. Most
exciting of all, it is the season when
most of our songbirds return to us from
their southern haunts, bringing back
with them the cheery notes which echo
over fields and through woods. . . ." C.
J. H ylander in Out of Doors in Spring.

 

waterfront at Cleveland was made by fourteen
members of the club. Over 65,000 ducks of seven
species and more than 12,000 other birds were
thus recorded. The club looks forward to the pro-
duction eventually of an annotated check-list of
the birds of the Cleveland, region.

The Mycology Club has sought to increase the
knowledge of the fungi of the Cleveland region.
It furnishes leadership for the Museum’s “Autumn
Mushroom W'alks.” One of its members has writ-
ten a “Pocket Natural History” describing over
one hundred of the common fungi of the region,
illustrated by original photographs of each species.
Club plans call for the building up of a Museum
herbarium. '

Members of the Geology Club lead “Geology
Walks” and “Fossil Hunts.” They are now col—
lecting invertebrate fossils,
with the double purpose of
building up the Museum’s
collection and assembling ma-
terial for a scientific report.
This in turn can be used later
in a Museum “Pocket Nat-
ural History.”

One member of the Tree
Club is studying pollen dis—
tribution of trees with special
interest to hay fever suffer-
ers. The club as a whole is
making a survey and report
on the trees of a newly opened
municipal park in two neigh—
boring suburban cities. An-
other club project is the gathering and tabulation
of information on seasonal changes in trees.

The Kirtland Mammal Club has been collecting
small mammals and making them into skins for the
Museum’s collection. No less than nine type speci-
mens for newly described sub-species have been
collected by members of this club.

The newly organized Reptile Club will 'meet
more or less regularly at the Cleveland Zoo where
a good collection of live reptiles is available for
their study. They hope to aid in securing an ade-
quate reptile house for the Zoo.

The art of nature phot0graphy holds the interest
of Photography Club members who are looking
forward to the time when they may invite the rest
of the society to a formal showing of their work.
Meanwhile they are engaged in building up a file
of natural history pictures in the Museum library.

(Continued on page 102)
RECREATION

Firestone Victory Gardens

HE 2,000 VICTORY

Gardens worked

by employees of
the Firestone Tire and
Rubber Company of Akron, Ohio, will produce
more than 7,000,000 pounds of vegetables this
year, with a value of more than $150,000 and
70,000,000 ration points. It is estimated that each
garden will yield twice the vegetables that are
now allowed a family of ten under the canned
goods ration plan.

This Firestone employee project had its begin-
ning more than twenty-seven years ago in vacant
lots which are now part of the Firestone Park
residential section. With civilians feeling the pinch
of food shortages in 1916 much as they are today.
Harvey S. Firestone, then head of the Firestone
Company, made company-owned land available to
employees for vegetable gardens. They plowed the
land, paid for their seeds, and wereentirely re-
sponsible for the success of their crops.

From this beginning
the Firestone gardens
have steadily grown to

Employees of the Firestone Company are
gardening for victory on a large scale

Harvey S. Firestone, Jr.. (left) president of the
Firestone Company, looks on while an employee

the largest company-
sponsored employee
gardens in this coun-
try. Last year, 1,500
plots grossed more than $85,000 worth of fresh
vegetables.

Program for 1943

Twenty-live additional acres of tillable soil have
already been limed, drained aind sown in rye and
vetch this year, The new land will boost the yield
of vegetables to the estimated $150,000.

Employees who register for gardens are given
garden passes, stickers for their cars, and a packet
of selected seeds sufficient to plant approximately
half of the 50 x 80 foot plot.

Careful scientific study and years of prepara-
tion by experts have made each plot a super gar-

den capable of producing prize quality vegetables.
All gardens are under the direct supervision of

William E. Lyons, a specialist in soil conservation
and soil improvement.

Last season fifty tons
of fertilizer and one

gardener receives an award ’tor her Victory Garden

MAY 1943

 

93

94 FIRESTONE VICTORY GARDENS

hundred tons of lime were used in the Firestone
gardens. Previous to the planting season a series
of soil tests revealed that two plots contained low
spots or catch basins hazardous to successful gar-
dening since there was no escape for heavy rain-
fall. \Vith water covering the soil for more than
twenty—four hours at a time the plant roots would
die from lack of air.

Drain holes were bored through ten feet of top
soil into the underlying strata of gravel, and drain
tile was laid to speed the removal of surplus water.
This improvement made available a large number
of additional gardens that were among the most
productive in the entire section. «

Soil Conservation

Soil conservation on a year-round basis is a
definite part of the gardening project. Erosion
has been checked by constructing a series of stone

dams, which slow up the speed of water as it drains
off the land.

After the gardens were closed on October 15
last year, the entire garden growth was disced
into the soil to fertilize the soil and destroy any
winter cover for insects.

Records of soil management are kept from year
to year to serve as a basis of long-range soil im-
provement. These records show drainage needed,
time of plowing, seed-bed preparation, type and
amount of fertilizer and lime used,‘type and con-
dition of cover crops plowed under, and erosion

progress. Records of man and machine hours are
also kept to determine cost of operations.

Muck Gardens

Along Wilbeth Road, adjacent to the Firestone
plant, is an area of muck land, sixty acres of which
were cleared, drained, and tilled last year. Each

muck garden yielded on an average of more than

.$150 worth of vegetables the first year.

Each year Gardens Supervisor Lyons plants and
cultivates an experimental garden plot on a difiicult
piece of ground to show beginners and seasoned
gardeners alike what progress can be made with
proper care and planting technique.

This experimental plot demonstrates the value
of shallow cultivation, the proper application of
insecticides, fertilizer placement, succession and
companion planting, depth of planting, width of
rows, winter care of gardens, and soil improve-
ment.

Demonstrations are also carried on to show the
advisability of staking or not staking tomatoes, the

advantages of bush as against pole beans, and the
productivity of various types of seeds.

Garden Awards

Each year the Firestone Company has granted
cash awards to the ten m'ost successful gardeners
of the year, The winning gardens are judged on
the basis of layout, variety, insect control, tillage
and garden practices.

Following the 1942 harvest, a huge Victory
Garden Show was held on the grounds of the
Firestone Country Club. Ribbons were awarded
to first, second, and third places for each variety
of vegetable. A Grand Champion was selected for
the best over-all. Interest ran high, and in many
cases first-year gardeners topped the experts.

Garden Booklet

Each year a garden booklet is issued to Fire-
stone gardeners with helpful information on com-
panion cropping and succession planting, planting
dates and distances, preparation of the seed-bed,
planting depth, disease-resistant varieties, trans-
planting, cultivating to control weeds, watering,
disease and insect control, the correct garden tools,
and the proper clothes to wear for gardening.*

Facilities for Recreation

With many mothers and older sisters going into
war production last year, it became necessary for
gardeners to take their children with them to the
gardens. A large playground area was cleared for
the children and sandboxes installed. This plan
proved so successful that recreational facilities for
the entire family are being added this year. Picnic
tables, fireplaces and space for outdoor games will
be provided.

“Once again, just as they were twenty-five years
ago, gardeners are on the front page as an impor-
tant part of the nation’s war effort. Once again
gardeners are responding to their country’s call to
enlist in a great army whose battle cry is ‘Food for
Freedom.’ They are a fighting army but their
weapons are those of peace—spades, rakes, and
hoes. . . . Once more the supreme importance of
food is being emphasized on every hand; food for
those who are fighting, and food for those at home
who are making the things to fight wit .”———E. L.
D. Seymour in Your Victory Garden.

 

*This booklet is available on request from the National Recrea-
tion Association.

RECREATION

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

ER'KSHIRE MUSEUM, Pittsiield, Massa-

" chusetts, in cooperation with the Pleasant
’ Valley Bird and Wildflower Sanctuary and the
Massachusetts Audubon Society has employed a
trained nature instructor who will devote full time
to teaching nature and conservation. The leader
will be at the Museum in the winter and at the
Sanctuary in summer and will work with schools,
camps, parks and group work agencies. The co-
operation of three institutions for a common cause

is a worthy and progressive move. It is also an

object lesson.

Farming. “Tom, Dick and Harry.” Farm drama
concerning profitable farming practices. A 16 mm.
sound 61111 free for transportation. Time 45 min—
utes, Write Keystone Steel and Wire Company,
Peoria, Illinois.

Forest Fire Prevention. Massachusetts has a
new forest fire patrol law. Lack of airpower,
scarcity of gasoline and tires, and military regula-
tions preventing use of radio to notify wardens of
weather forecast were some of the difficulties. The

total cost was $8,632 or about $66-per town pa- ,

troled. Forest hres in 1942 were 1,035 as against
3,624 in year before. Acres burned were 11,001
compared to 28,966 in 1941.

Herb Garden. Medicinal plants were formerly
imported from Europe. For herb hobbyists there
is opportunity to grow several drug crops. Among
them are aconite, bella donna, digitalis, henbane,
stramonium and the poppy. A bulletin called
“Medicinal Plants” is available from the Division
of Drug. and Related Plants, U. S. Dept. Agricul-
ture. \Vashington, D. C. Since we are the greatest
spice using nation you might
ask for the bulletin “Condi-
ment Plants,” at the same

Indians. “Sun Chief, The
Autobiography of a Hopi
Indian,” Leo W. Simmons,
editor. Yale University
Press, New Haven, Con—

necticut. 460 pp. $4.25. An
Indian who tried the white

MAY 1943

From the days of ancient Rome May Day has
time_ been celebrated in gala fashion. Named
for the Roman Goddess MaiaI the month of
May on the Roman calendar fell within the
period dedicated to Flora. the Goddess of
Flowers. In Medieval England all classes
of people were up at dawn on May Day to
go "a-Maying." Branches of trees and of
flowers were borne triumphantly back to
the village where a birch Maypdle adorned
with ribbons and flowers was erected.

man’s way for ten years and returned to tribal life.

Insects. “Near Horizons. The Story of an In-
sect Garden,” Edwin Way Teale. Dodd, Mead
and Company, New York. 319 pp. illus. $3.75.

“International Protection of Wild Life,” Sher-
man Strong Hayden. Columbia University Press,
New York. 246 pp. $3.00.

Jackson Hole National M onmnent,'Wyoming,
an approach to Grand Teton National Park, was
made a fact, March 16, 1943, when President
Roosevelt signed a proclamation. Sculptured by
the glacier, it has been the rendezvous of Indians,
fur trappers and traders such as Jim Bridges and
Kit Carson. Tomorrow it will again be the home
of the moose, buffalo, beaver, trumpeter swans and
campers. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., gave donations
that made this gift to the people possible.

Mammals. “Horns and Antlers,” ‘Wilfred S.
Bronson. Harcourt, Brace, New York. 143 pp.,
illustrated by author. $2.00.

“Microscope, Fan with Y our,” Raymond F.
Yates, Appleton-Century, New York. 150 pp.
illus. $2.00. For young scientists.

M onntaineering. “High Conquest, the Story of
Mountaineering,” James Ramsey Ullman. J. B.
Lippincott, New York City. 350 pp. Popular and
authoritative.

M nsenm taken to the community. The inclu-
sion of ,the Children’s Department as beneficiary of
the W orcester Community Chest will enable six
centers under volunteer guidance. Contribution to
the enjoyment of future peace is an Opening theme.
Lithuanian culture with exhibits, native music,
and Lithuanian_ref1‘eshments will be followed by
exhibits of Palestine, France,
and Russia. Branch Muse-
ums are following the ex-
ample of Branch Libraries.

A! nsemns. Dr, Charles C.
Adams, Director of the New
York State Museum at Al-
bany, in the 104th Annual
Report of the Museum, de-
scribes a plan for an auto-

mobile traveling museum
(Continued on page 110)

95

WORLD
AT

PLAY

New Course in
Los Angeles

RECREATION directors of
the Los Angeles munici-
pal playgrounds are tak-
ing a training course in
jujitsu, the purpose of
which is to prepare them to serve as instructors in
jujitsu classes for the general public to be offered
at various Los Angeles municipal recreation
centers.

These classes have two objectives: (1) to con-
tribute to the general physical fitness program;
and (2) to prepare men about to enter the armed
forces or civilian defense personnel or other home
guard personnel to cope with jujitsu methods on
the part of the enemy should they be encountered.

CANADA’S first com-
munity house for
Negroes has been
opened in Toronto.
Here activities for people of all ages are being
provided -—'—- handcrafts, art and music for .young
people, household science for women, and educa-
tional and recreational facilities for men.

Community House
for Negroes

“THE BASIC concept
of our work-play pro-
gram is rooted in chil-
dren’s interests as re—
lated to their environment. Though normal activi-
ties go on—as they should—the current war scene
has naturally affected children, and hence the way
in which they express themselves. Ample oppor-
tunity is therefore given to them to dramatize their
feelings through war play, to discuss their fears,
and to do something about it all. Older boys and
girls, for instance, organize and work on different
types of salvage clubs, and make garments for
children in America and abroad. On the latter

96

Play Schools in
Wartime

 

‘ Courtesy Lo: Angelo: Playground and Recreation Department

project, mothers as well as teachers are helping.
Foods are studied; dehydrated foods are investi—
gated; substitute play materials are used and found
satisfactory. Children tagged in event of air raids
—week1y evacuation drills—means that they are
living in an atmosphere which colors their doing
as well as their feeling.”—From Annual Report
1942, Play Schools Association, Inc., New York

City.

THE LEEDY, Okla-
homa, Lions Club has
sponsored two clean-
up days during which
they have cut down six-foot weeds in the city park,
obtained and set in order an old cook stove, put up
lights, fixed a cement wading pool, and made and
painted two tables and eight benches for the park.

Park Made Over by
Lions Club

RESULTS of the first
nation-wide public
opinion survey dealing
with urban planning
have been released by the Bureau of Urban Re—
search of Princeton University.

In the opinion of their inhabitants the outstand-
ing problem facing cities is the lack of good, rea-
sonable-priced housing. Next in order are trans-
portation difficulties and trafiic congestion; local
problems resulting from the war; the lack of em-
ployment opportunity; inadequacy or dishonesty
of municipal governments. Among other needs
cited in some of the cities were new or improved
streets, street lighting, water supply, sewage dis-

RECREATION

A City Planning Public
Opinion Survey

WORLD AT PLAY 97

posal, municipal cleanliness, the need for better
police, fire and health services, less noise, and more

parks and playgrounds.

Parks Still Accessible—“The Commission
has selected areas of ground throughout the
County so situated that every thickly p0pulated
community has a park or playground near by.”

This statement first appeared in a report of the
Union County, New Jersey, Park Commission,
submitted to Justice James J. Bergen in Septem-
ber, 1921. Because more than twenty-one years
ago the members of this preliminary Park Com-
mission felt the need of selecting areas that would
serve every thickly p0pulated community, 93 per
cent of all the people in Union County find them—
selves living in communities containing at least one
county park area. In the three cities of the county
whose combined p0pulation exceeds 50 per cent of
the county total, there are live well deveIOped
parks within easy access of the residents without
using motor tranSportation. The Commission has
issued a call for suggestions from county residents
for facilities that would make the use of the park
system more attractive to them without any exces-
sive eXpenditure. It is thought that suggestions
which will be received will help greatly in adding
to the usefulness of the parks.

Facilities in Los Angeles—Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, has several multiple sports fields, including
a huge archery commons at present providing for
twenty‘eight shooting lanes ; a nineteen-mile bridle
path used by some 5,000 riders on Sunday; the
new Crystal Springs area, formerly the lower three
holes of the golf course, now revamped to provide
picnicking for 10,000 pe0ple ; an enlarged and re-
habilitated zoo ; and a huge Park Department yard.

Wilmette’s Community Center—About a
year ago Wilmette, Illinois, completed a commu-
nity center building which is used for such activi—
ties as classes for preschool children, dancing
classes, sewing and first aid classes, civilian de—
fense meetings, basket weaving, handwork, and
ping-pong groups, and square dances. Since the
building is located on a playground, the basement
is used as a field house. No charge is made for
any activity. The construction cost of $7,637 was
paid out of current funds, and the cost of main-
taining and operating the center in 1942-1943, ac-
cording to W. A. Wolff, Village Manager, will be
$1, 5 50, including light, heat, and water.

MAY 1943

TRAINING
PLAYGROUND
WORKERS . . .

THE WAR has created a shortage of experienced

and trained playground workers. This summer
playground authorities must use as leaders many per-
sons whose preparation for such service has been very
limited. The pre-summer institute will be more es-
sential than ever before and training programs will
need to be conducted throughout the season.

To help playground authorities plan and conduct
their training institute and in-service training pro-
grams, the Association offers a new booklet, Syllabus
for a Playground Workers Institute. It contains lists
of topics for discussion and study with detailed out-
lines and reading references for each, a suggested
institute schedule, and practical ideas for institute

procedure. a

Price $.35

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

 

Recommendations to School Systems—“The
responsible authorities of school systems in a de-
mocracy at war should investigate the present and
postwar educational needs of the youth of the com-
munity. Begin at once to make the curriculum
changes that would provide for those needs and
attempt to obtain or prepare teachers who can pro—
vide for such needs as work instruction, consumer
education, leisure-time activities, civic responsi-
bilities, health, and family relationships. . . . Utilize
school plants and instructional equipment in all
forms of community war work and in extensions
of the educational program. Include all ages in
instructional and recreational programs that make
for better health, clearer understanding, and
higher morale.”—From Teacher Education in (1
Democracy at l/Var by Edward S. Evenden.

Drama Activities in Long Beach -—— The
month of June began for Long Beach, California,
with the performance of “Elijah” for which the
Recreation Division provided leadership for the
dramatization. Summer plans provided for varia-
tions of the usual drama program at nineteen play
centers, the plan being to have puppetry one month
and dramatics another or story hours changing to
puppetry. N 0 district festivals were held and there
was no travel by bus. In spite of the difficulties
involved, there were many performances at the
centers.

98 STORYTELLING AS A MORALE-BUILDER FOR CHILDREN

*
DIAMOND

Has Gone To War

The Army. Navy and Air Corps
are using the material that used
to go into the famous Diamond
pitching horseshoe line. When

the war is won. it'll be baclt to
Business As Usual.

r DIAMOND CAlK HORSESHOE (0.

46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

 

Art and the War—‘With the approval of the
War Department, the Museum of Modern Art in
New York City has prepared an extensive pro~
gram to utilize art and American artists for the
benefit of the country’s armed forces. The pro-
gram consists of two parts: First, to provide fa-
cilities and material for soldier-artists in army
camps throughout the country; and second, to
utilize the talents of American artists for thera-
peutic work among disabled soldiers and sailors.
The need for art materials in many camps is acute
since most soldiers cannot afford to buy 'these
materials.

In Haddon Township—In the township of
Haddon, Camden County, New Jersey, is located
Crystal Lake Park which provides recreation for
people of all ages. In the park are a large swim-
ming pool, a Nautical House where first aid treat-
ment is given for minor injuries, a concession
stand for the sale of refreshments for the bathers,
and a playground and baby pool for younger chil-

dren. Other facilities include night—lighted quoit ,

courts, six tennis courts, an area on which Boy
Scouts hold their Jamborees during the summer

season, and a baseball field. An artificial skating
pond twelve inches deep is Hoodlighted and used
during the winter for night skating. At two other
locations in the township the Department of Pub-
lic Safety, in charge of the recreation facilities, has
erected additional quoit courts, tennis courts, and
wading pools for childrenf

Storytelling as a Morale-Builder
for Children

"(Continued from page 75)

stories about snakes that awakened his interest in
them. He began hunting them out, to study them.
One day he brought home five water-moccasins in
a bucket. He knew that his mother had a horror
of snakes. Not to frighten her, he left the bucket
containing his catch in a vacant lot across the
street from the house. \Vhat he forgot, in his
excitement, was that his father hated snakes as
sincerely as did his mother. When his dad came
home that evening, the boy proudly took him to
see the pailful of Agkistrodon piscivorus. The re-
sult was disappointing. Instead of the praise he
expected, his dad, to use my friend’s own words,
“threatened to lick the hide off him if he didn't
get rid of the snakes immediately.”

There was nothing to do but obey. The boy
killed all of the reptiles except the prize of the
collection, a six-footer, that evening. The big' fellow
he kept for a few days, then killed and skinned
him, and made the skin into a belt. Incidentally,
he was not permitted to keep the belt.

Admitting that, in this case, the boy was too
well cured—that is, he became too fearless of
snakes for his own safety and the peace of mind
of his parents—the point remains. The incident
furnishes a good illustration of the fact children
are greatly influenced by the stories they hear.
Which makes the responsibility of the.storyteller
a momentous one.

It is a responsibility likely to grow heavier, at
least until the war is won. For the duration, more
and more the talk children hear, the pictures they
see, the headlines they read, will be such as keep
thoughts of war in their minds. This puts it
squarely up to the trained storyteller in the recrea-
tion field to do his best in the interest of juvenile
morale. It is his vastly important task to serve
his country by using his art as a morale—builder
to children.

RECREATION

WALTER A. MAY 99

Walter A. May

 

UR MORE THAN twenty-nine years Walter . .

May gave generously of his business experi-
ence and his understanding of life to help the local
and the national recreation movement as a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the National Rec-
reation Association. His death.on April 22, 1943.
is a loss to the entire recreation movement.

He was ever keen and discriminating in his
judgments, open-minded, ready to see the other
side of every question. He had real courage. He
never hesitated to stand alone if he thought he was
right. Always he was warmly human.

He was interested in the personal welfare of
each recreation worker he came to know and
thought of each such individual in a very personal
kind of way.

At the Recreation Congress gatherings he came
early and stayed through. He presided at various
meetings. He studied what was taking place and
made valuable suggestions. No detail was too
small to be considered by him.

Just a few days before his death he learned that
a certain corporation he was identified with was
asking for authority to increase the amount set
aside for contributions. He immediately thought
of possible financial support for the Association

MAY 1943

I GoldSm ith

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Complete Line of
Equipment for all Sports

-  :i '

» 5:. '35-!“-

 P. LDSMIT SONS,

~ —
Inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

and sent word to the office. He helped in enlisting
other workers and supporters. He cared for aiding
the Association to make its largest contribution to
the welfare of the world.

\Valter A. May was one of the pioneers who
helped to build up the national recreation move-
ment and the National Recreation Association.

He was an active business executive who had
the courage to retire while he could still enjoy life;
who took time to play and live with his grand-
children; who traveled around the world twice to
see what he might discover on this earth on which
he lived; who made the most of fourteen years of
leisure, counting service as good fun. His appre-
ciation of the beautiful was a joy to his friends.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

 

Prize-Winning Photo

The picture, “Ball in theAir,” reproduced on
page 81 won first prize in the senior division of
the annual photography contest sponsored by the
Park Department of New York City. It was sub- -

mitted by Mrs. E. J. O’Connell, 86 East End
Avenue, New York City. '

100 IN A CITY OF HOMES

Little Books With Large

Possibilities

In pocket size comes this collection of little
books, gayly illustrated and full of up-to-the-

minute program suggestions. Issued by the

U.S.O.-Y.W.C.A.

Democracy Series

We’re All Americans
(for leaders) . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 cents

By Different Boats . . . . . . . . . 50 for $1.50
100 for $2.25

Women at Work . . . . . . . . . . . 50 for $1.50

. 100 for $2.25
Emotionally Speaking—How‘s

Your Balance? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 for $ .75
100 for $2.25
Teen—Agers Take Over . . . . . . . . . . 50 for $1.50
100 for $2.25
Vitality for Victory . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 for $1.50
100 for $2.25

Boy Meets Girl in Wartime... . . 10 cents

100 for $5.00
__¢_.

THE WOMANS PRESS
600 Lexington Avenue. New York. N. Y.

 

In a City of Homes

( Continued from page 64)

activities for children from the fourth grade
through junior high school. During this play
school season, which lasts from five to eight weeks,
we increase our staff from two to five instructors.

Special classes are held in clay modeling. The
children turn out excellent pieces of work, many
of them models of animals which are sculptured
from live models. Usually one of the projects of
the class members is to select a character from a
well known story and model it well enough for the
rest of the group to guess the name of the character
and the story.

Shop classes also prove popular in play school.
The younger boys specialize in making pyramid
puzzles, napkin holders, surf boards, Boy Scout
pack racks, and pump handle lamps. The older
boys have quite a bit of freedom in selection of
projects and a cross section of their work would
show a red wood garden table, garden tea cart,
dog house, magazine racks and book cases.

The girls under the direction of two special
women instructors completed many unique proj-

ects in woodcraft and crepe paper work last year.
They made what—not shelves, garden decorations.
clippings, jig—saw puzzles, wood and raffia belts,
crepe paper coasters and glass holders, miniature
hats, and bowls.

Tournaments for boysand girls in tennis, ping-
pong, badminton, checkers, carroms, and volley-
ball continued through the special summer pro—-
gram. Skee—koe, shuffleboard, Sea War or “Sink
the Battleship,” tether ball, capture-the-iiag, and
hopscotch were minor playground games that
proved extremely popular in our summer play
school.

Special exercises are held on the last day of the
play school. The first part of the program con-
sists of novelty games and relay races. Then the
children and their parents and friends adjourn to
the auditorium where the dramatics group presents
a one—act play. After the play, awards for the
tournaments are made and refreshments served by
the Parent—Teacher Association.

The biggest thrill of the year for many of our
youngsters is the model airplane meet that is held
once a year. The meet is sponsored by the San
Marino Recreation Department with a perpetual
trophy donated by the local Rotary Club. This is
given to the winner of the meet for one year.
Rules governing the entrants are:

1. All” planes must be made by contestants.

2. All planes must be the fuselage type—rubber pow-
ered models.

3. Contestants may enter only one plane in each division.

4. \Vinners in each division will be awarded points
toward the trophy.

5. All planes must be hand launched.

6. All planes must be entered in classification accord—
ing to wing span—Class A, up to 24 inches; Class B,
24% to 36 inches; Class C, 36 inches and over.

At Burlingame's Play Center

(Continued from page 70)

sends available leaders to all the different schools
to help out on school parties, neighborhood gather-
ings, and class parties in which children of all ages
are encouraged to participate with their parents.
Junior college age boys and girls participate in
the adult evening activities — badminton, gym—

nasium work, and the adult folk dancing groups.
This year the budget for the Recreation Depart-

ment has been increased to $II,892, an increase of
33.8 per cent over last year.

RECREATION

 

 

Exhibition drill at South
Common, Lowell, Mass.

Grounds treated with Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set.

anchors dust quickly and completely!

'1 y Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is the prac-

lal answer to your dust-annoyance
blems:

Iy Effective—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust annoy-
: completely immediately after application. No long
ling periods are necessary before the. ground is ready
t se. The dust allaying effect is accomplished by the
)n of the compound in adhering to and weighing
n dust particles. In” addition, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set pos-
! valuable germicidal properties. i

I lasting—Because of its extremely low volatility and
lubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains effec-

=for long periods. ode application per season or year
.ually sufficient.
l

Applied—~Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing, easy
pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-sprinkling

 

can or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly and
uniformly.

Saves Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set prevents
the growth of grass on areas treated and reduces clean-
ing and dusting inside nearby buildings to a minimum.

Write today for the booklet giving complete informa-
tion about this modern, proven duSt allayer.

mail this coupon today

Gulf Oil Corporation ° Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Please send me. without obligation, a copy of the booklet, “Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern proven agent for controlling dust.

  .  . .   . ..    . 

Title_.._.  .. .. . . . .

Address ................ . .. ..................................... . .. ....................  ................... ..

102 NATURAL HISTORY IN THE MAKING

5W RECREATION We”???

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys are space saving . . . a complete
Bowling Alley that is operated by the players themselves. no

pin boys required.

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys sell for a traction of the _cost
of regulation alleys. Superny constructed to last a life-time.

Though TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys till every need for com-

petition. relaxation. and exercise, they do not make the
physical demands on the players that regulation bowling does.

Our special "E-Z" construction means easily assembled and iust as
easily taken apart—completely portable—tor in or outdoor use.

Two—Way Bowling Alleys now offer many hours of relaxation to our men

in the Air Corps, Army, Coast Guard, Marines and Navy from Guantanamo
(List of Army

Camps, Naval and Marine Stations, now using the Two—Way Bowling

Bay, Cuba, to Alaska—from New York to California.

Alleys gladly furnished upon request.)

EQUIPMENT FURNISHED
Consists of the following:

One High—Grade, Hardwood
Alley with swinging ends.
23 feet overall.
Two sets of ten pins each (20)
Highest Grade Hardwood,
71/2" x 23/3" belly thickness.
Two Hardwood Bowling Balls
3—9/16” in diameter.
Two Pit Floor Mats.
Two Pit Base Felts.
Two Heavy Swinging Cushions.

' 500 Score Sheets.

Portable: Packed in sections——
“E 2 Set Up" Construction.

DlMENSIONS
Length, 23 feet overall
Width, 32 inches overall
Height of alley above floor, 18 inches
Height of both ends from floor, 38 inches
Approximate shipping weight, 800 pounds

Jury/mi 410v If/VJ'JWO/IMI 64/1/{2 ..
BOWLING TH E NEW 2-WAY

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Patent No. 2247769

Natural History in the Making
(Continued from page 92)

The Kirtland Society exemplifies outdoor recre-
ation at its very best. It is not mass recreation in
any sense, but recreation that enables the indi-
vidual to develop his own particular interests as
fully as possible. Coupled with this come the satis-
factions that arise from personal progress and the
achievement of results of real value from original
investigation. There is a kind of satisfaction to the
individual such as he might never get if he did not
have the association which his club gives him with
other like-minded people and the expert guidance
that he needs.

The writer cannot help contrasting his experi—
ence as a boy many years ago, intent on develop-
ing a growing interest in birds, with the experience
which a sixteen-year-old boy might now have as a
member of the Kirtland Bird Club.

The writer had no adviser; no like-minded per-
son with whom to talk; no library; and only one

I I4 East 32nd Street. New York
Telephone LExington 2-8828

 

 

bookuSamuels’ B irds of New England. He wanted
to know more about birds and what he got, he got
the hard way—without any help from trained orni-
thologists or the stimulus of directed original re-
search.

Today a sixteen—year—old boy may sit in a meet-
ing of the Kirtland Bird Club, his face alight with
the same familiar craving for knowledge. Not only
is he a part of a group as intent as he on extend-
ing their knowledge of birds, but at his elbow sits
a man who has had years of experience in studying
ornithology—a recognized leader in his profession.
Near at hand is the Museum’s special bird library,
including the best books and magazines, and on
display is the Museum’s great collection 0f over
50,000 birds from all parts of the world.

One cannot help envying the boy of today, and
feeling that naturerrecreation presented in such
form is good—good for body, mind, and soul-—
perhaps the greatest contribution a museum of
natural history may make to its community.

RECREATION

I

 

IN THE BIRD WORLD 103

In the Bird World

(Continued from page 82)

all but a very rosy red—pirouetting about on the
ground as he courted his lady love. The Norway
pine woods at the same lake held the nest of a
bald eagle, and we could watch the feeding of the
young eagles by lying flat on the ground and gaz-
ing up at the nest. At night the lake echoed with
the weird plaintive calls of the loons, whose day-
time antics in ducking beneath the water are so
amusing to watch.

Roaming the bluffs overlooking the Mississippi,
we identified the towhee, a bird with coloring
similar to the robin but very different in markings.
There, too, we saw the fox sparrow, that rusty red
and active member of a large family, busily scratch~
ing among the leaves like a mother hen. The little
white-throated sparrow with his “piercing, tender
cry” is a regular visitor for a week or so during
the spring and fall.

Some birds are interesting because of their
minute size, as the warblers and the kinglets. The
warblers, of which there are about thirty varieties,
travel through Minnesota in May on their way
north to nesting grounds, after spending the winter
in northern South America. One wonders how
these tiny creatures can fly such distances. Their
identification is a real challenge to the bird lover.
And then there is the little Maryland yellow—
throat with the black mask over his eyes like a
bold bandit!

The winter study of birds is made easier by the
attraction of food. A little‘ board nailed to your
window sill and covered with crumbs, sunflower
seeds and suet will reward you with the presence
of the most delightful of small winter birds, the
Chickadee. He will be joined by the downy and
hairy woodpeckers, the bluejay, and the busy little
nuthatch which stores bits of suet in the bark of
near-by trees for future reference! Another winter
visitor is that gay red cardinal whose call sounds
like a cross between a whistle and a “cheep.”

The next time you are out of doors take a good

look at the bird world. It is a ready-made remedy
for the wartime “blues.”

 

Pardon Us!

In the article “Two~VVay Bowling Scores a
Ten-Strike,” published in the April issue of REC-
REATION, we stated that “two-way” bowling balls
were 9 9/16 inches in diameter, This figure should
have been 3 9/16 inches.

MAY 1943 ‘

  
 
      
     
   
    

In addition to the ‘
regular line of Louis- ‘
ville Slugger bats, which ‘
is available in a wide
variety of models. weights

and lengths priced to meet
your requirementsI H 8: B have
designed eight special models for

college and prep school use.

A complete line of softball bats

In Softball as

is also available.
well as in Baseball it pays to play

with the best.

-,2 I A free supply of
f 7 Famous Slugger
r  Year Books and

’ Official Softball
Rule Books will be
sent you for use
by your team
members. Write us
your requirements.

HILLERI BH
8:. ~BHADSBY
compananc.

Louisville' Ky.

   
  

FAMOUS

LU ms VILLE  i... 
SLUGGER 23%

   
    

FOR

SOFTBALL

AND BASEBALL

104 IMPROVISED EQUIPMENT FOR THE ARMY

Improvised Equipment for the Army
(Continued from page 80)

few pieces of board, two or three inches wide,
and one-half inch thick. Use one piece about six-
teen inches long as the first tone. Its pitch need
not correspond to any certain tone. With this
piece as the lirst one, build a diatonic (do-re-mi-
fa-sol-la-ti—do) scale by sawing each consecutive
tone a bit shorter. By holding the board between
thumb and forefinger along its edges, and striking
it in the center of its flat surface with some hard
object, its pitch can readily be determined. Care
must be exercised in sawing off the boards; if too
much is taken off the pitch will be too high and it
cannot be lowered again, In that case it may be
used for another higher tone.

Newspapers rolled and pasted together with
flour—and-water paste are adequate for use under
the nodal points of the board. These are necessary
so that the boards or “keys’.’ can rest, ends free,
and sound clearly. Any piece of wood fashioned
into a small mallet can be whittled with an
ordinary jackknife. '

Outdoor Equipment

In the area of outdoor equipment the student
officers fashioned fish—poles, bats, balls, paddles,
bow and arrows, spears, sling-shots, and lassos.
Baseballs were made in a variety of ways, tape
around an orange; string and rags around a rubber
heel, and then taped; a man’s sock sewed around
a stone; and a larger ball (medicine ball) made
from old rags wrapped around a large rock.

The largest amount and variety of equipment
was made in the area of indoor games—puzzles,
table games such as checkers and chess, tossing
games, ring—toss, dice games, and dart games. A
great amount of originality was shown in the mak-
ing of dart games. Here the men used needles,
nails, or pins for the dart points; toothpicks,‘
matches, twigs or corn cobs for the body of the
dart; and feathers, paper, or tin sheets for the
feathers. For the targets they drew pictures of
Hitler, Mussolini, and Hirohito, military maps,
or maps of various theaters of operation.

These various pieces of improvised equipment
can be used in day rooms, service clubs, and in
isolated outposts where standard equipment is not
available. ”

University of Wisconsin

Summer Session Prepares for Recreational Leadership ’

Philosophy—The place of recreation in Ameri-
can culture and social issues in education under
the direction of Eduard Lindeman, New York
School of Social Work.

Theatre—Courses include elements of dramatic
production, stage direction, stage design. Semi-
nar in dramatic production. Campus theatre
provides opportunity for participation in sum-
mer productions.

Physical F itness—A survey of the scientific
foundations of fitness, conditioning exercises,
and devices for measuring fitness.

Dance—Emphasis is given to American square
and group dances with training in “calling”;
to methods of teaching social dance patterns
such as the foxtrot, waltz, rhumha and tango;
to dance production with classes in beginning
and advanced techniques and in dance com-
position.

Athletics and Games—The department of physi-
cal education oiiers a course in methods of con-
ducting group dances, mixers, games. Special-
ized course in team games for men and for
women are provided.

A Military Recreation Program—-which students may observe and in which they may participate
as volunteer assistants is in operation on the campus in the Memorial Union Building, one of the
larger community and military service centers of the country. Its program serves the student body,
a campus military force of 3,500 and 20,000 men from a near-by Army post.

Observation of Municipal Recreation—is afforded in the city of Madison with its playgrounds,
parks, and swimming beaches; its athletic leagues and its outdoor motion pictures. Milwaukee with
its nationally recognized recreation organization can be reached in two hours.

15 Weeks Session June 7 to September 18.
6 and 8 Weeks Sessions begin June 21.

Complete information will be found in the Summer Session Bulletin which may be obtained from:
Director of Summer Session. Box 62. University of Wisconsin. Madison. Wisconsin.

 

THE HOUSE OF MORGAN 105

The House of Morgan -

W kw ATHLETIC

p

"m EQUIPMENT

Mlii by W. 1. tall Runner Earp- 1503 E. 25m St... [is Augeies. calil.
British“ 180 N. Witter llr .cliicag I5?

 

writing to the individuals whose support his father
had enlisted was taken over by F. Trubee Davison
and continued by him for the last twenty years.
Harry P. Davison, son of Henry P. Davison, as
well as F. Trubee Davison has served as a mem—
ber of the Board of Directors of the National Rec-
reation Association. Harry P. Davison has been
a member of J. P. Morgan and Company. Other
partners in the House of Morgan have also been
contributors to the Association through the years.

The natiOnal recreation movement owes much
to the moral and iinancial support it has received
from the House of Morgan.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

 

 

The Late J. P. Morgan

N THE midst of war this is an attempt to

. appraise education as it has been, is, and might
FOR TWENTY YEARS J. P. Morgan contributed to be—to explain how the abstractions “war” and

the National Recreation Association. In his “education,” so much in people's minds, cover a
death the Association has lost another loyal friend. multitude 0‘ Sins-
His father before him was a contributor. The first Evidence is presented that our education leaves us
contribution of $1,000 came through a cable from without understanding and without emotional con-

trol. Without our present systems of education
. P. M r . ’ . .
J 0 gan’ sr ' from England‘ Mr’ Morgan 8 would it be DOSSlble to have our present systems

I WAR AND EDUCATION ‘

secretary, Mr. King, reported to me that Mr. of wars?

A'Iorgan had been deeply lrnpressed by a leaflet “Extremely interesting. I have read it with
“More Playgrounds or More Jails,” and wanted to 3mm}! {flightenmeyt gm! zriretsziog' I
. . ames ursell, Co um ia. “ ig y o -
share in the national movement for more adequate “able compendium of Imbhand informw ‘

playground and recreation centers for the children gin.” hJohn Haynes Hbolmem gammunity
. . . . arc . “Promises to e your est war ,”
p51 America. Itwas characteristic of the senior Mr. George Knener, Yale.
i organ that Instead of waiting until he should 512 pp” black vellum, 6x9, $4.00
return to the United States, he should have cabled
asking that the contribution be made. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
For a number of years, as First Vice-President The 27th edition of this well known Handbook, l
of the Association, Hem-y P. Davison of  P. ready‘ in May, $6.00, reviews the educational year i .
Morgan and Company gave outstanding help not and lists or critically describes over 3,000 schools.
only in advising about current récreation pr0b_ K Circulars and Table of Contents on Request

' lems but also in writing and telephoning to his
friends and building up a very substantial financial
support, After the death of Henry P. Davison, the

PORTER SARGENT
11 Beacon Street, Boston I

 

l
MAY 1943

106 SUNDA YS-IN-THE-PARKS

 

as
 §
0 
§~
£ Q
‘0 $§ HE UNIVERSAL APPEAL
gag” of this booklet should
§ commend it not only to play leaders

but to teachers, club leaders, parents, and
all concerned with children’s play. For in
this publication, designed for children of
all ages, from early childhood to adoles-
cence —-——— for indoor and outdoor play—
there are singing games, tag games, relays,
ball games, miscellaneous active games,
quiet games, and nature games.

Price 50 cents

National Recreation Association

3|5 Fourth Avenue
New York City

lllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllll —.

Sundays-in-the—Parks

(Continued from page 88)

spectacular trips to Providence to arrive in time to
help out. Gloria Swanson, who closed in Toronto
Saturday night, made the hundred mile trip across
the border by motor, and caught a 4 :00 A. M. train
east at Buffalo; Ruth Chatterton and Ralph
Forbes, who closed in Atlantic City, made a 6:00
o’clock Sunday morning local to Philadelphia,
traveled by express to New York, and flew the
rest of the way; and Michael VVhalen, who missed
out on the same cross-country jaunt as Miss Swan-
son, stayed over the following Sunday to make
good his promise to be at the park.

The contributions of these stars ran from in-
formal speeches through reading parts of scenes to
the full dress appearance in character, horse-drawn
to the stage, of Will Geer and Joanna Roos as
President and Mrs. Abe Lincoln. Jackie Cooper
came nearest to being mobbed by his admirers as
' they poured over, under, and around the police to
get near him! I

Despite inconvenience and informality, they all
loved it. So impressed was Martha Raye that, un-
solicited, she mailed to Providence a few days
after she had left a check for the purchase of a

illIIllllllllHllllllll||||||||l||ll|ll||l|||IllllllllllllllIIIlIlllII|||IllIll||l|IllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllltllillIlllllllllllllilllillllllllllllllll

g,
E
E.
El

$100 War Bond so that its sale could be counted
in the local quota.

One weekly feature which proved its popularity
was the appearance of four “interesting persons”
selected at random from the news of the week.
They included, among many others, the state’s
first woman taxi driver who drove her cab to the
stage after previously appearing “straight” as a
band vocalist; the state’s first WAAC; Governor
McGrath and Lieutenant Governor Louis Capelli;
Dr, Henry M. VVriston, president of Brown Uni-
versity; state OPA director, Christopher Del
Sesto ; sportcaster Jim Britt; and Coxswain J. C.
Cullen, U. S. Coast Guard, discoverer of the Nazi
spies on Long Island. The Naval Construction
Battalions, Seabees of the Navy, the Coast Guard,
and the Army all had their days.

Entertainment hit a wide range. Night club and
vaudeville artists, oratorio societies, crack brass
bands, fife, bugle, and drum corps, a champion
pipers’ band, vocalists, choruses, novelty acts (some
with animals), comedians, tragedians, child enter-
tainers—hall had their places. Variety was the key
note and none was permitted to “stay on” too long.
Upon everyone was impressed the late George ’M.
Cohan’s philosophy of “leave ’em while they still
want you.”

One week’s expenses ran to less than $20; an-
other reached the peak of slightly more than $400.
All bills were paid and there is $27 left to begin
operations again this summer. The committee had
the feeling of having done a job well. The war-
weary home folks were loud in their praises and
Sundays-in-the-Parks is scheduled to go on again
in 1943 in Providence.

Day Camping
(Continued from page 73)

6. At the end of each thirty day period, please
submit to this office a written report showing the
dates of the various camp outings, the troop iden—
tification (troop No.), the Scoutmaster in charge,
and the number of persons participating in the
outing, as well as the results of the field execu- ;
tive’s inspection after the outing is over. \Ve
should like this information for overnight camps
as well as organized hikes to the camp sites.

7. Above all, impress upon all Scouts that these I

 

natural tracts are public property, control of which
is vested in the Park Board. They are for the
benefit and enjoyment of the public generally. I
Urban development in and around Dallas has con- i

RECREATION

 

DAY CAMPING

verted most of our land into residential, industrial
and business usage. The natural beauty and utility
of these sites for camp purposes now and in the
future hinges on the care which “Scouters” will
exercise in frequenting these areas.

“May I assure you,” states Mr. Houston in is-
suing these requirements, “that the Park Board is
eager to have these camp sites served to the fullest

extent.”

Ithaca’s Day Camp

The Board of Education of Ithaca, New York,
is one of the groups to take advantage of the co-
operation of the local Park Department. Last year
it established a camp site a mile from the center
of the city on property which the Park Depart—
ment recently transferred to the Board of Educa—
tion for use as a recreation field for girls. The
swimming beach is within half mile of the site
which has on it a large recreation building with all
facilities. The daily program consists of work—
play projects in crafts, nature, pageantry, sports,
swimming, cooking, hiking, and first aid. Each
week a radio program on nature was broadcast
under the leadership of Professor E. Laurence
Palmer. Other special events included weekly dra-
matic performances and on the final day programs
for parents and friends.

The staff consisted of four special project teach-
ers from the schools who took charge of. dramatics,
arts and crafts, science and sports, and a school
nurse. The selection of the children—Hand there
were 215 boys and girls between the ages of 9 and
I4—was made in April by public and parochial
school nurses. Daily health inspection was required.

The camp operated on a daily basis, from nine
in the morning until four in the afternoon. Lead-
ers met the children at five different sections of
the city and hiked to camp, returning at four
o’clock. Each camper brought a lunch of sand-
wiches and fruit, Milk was served at a minimum
cost. Last year it was possible to secure food from
the surplus commodities and each child was given
a hot dish prepared by the Evacuation Committee
on Feeding through the cooperation of the County
Nutrition Committee.

This year the budget provided by the Board of
Education for the camping program will be in-
creased $250. This will make possible overnight
camping at a state park about three miles from the
center of the city.- I

MAY 1943

107

i— -..—_———_——7——_.— —n— —-—-._—.——u——I

I W l

“Gotta Date Tonight ?”

0 Readers of Recreation will be interested to
know that articles on teen age recreation
which have appeared in recent issues of the

magazine have been brought together in a
pamphlet under the title. "Gotta Date

l
l Tonight?"

This pamphlet. presenting as it does

practical experiences in providing recrea-

tion for boys and girls in their teens. will be

a valuable supplement to Teen Trouble.
recently issued by the Association at IO

cents a copy.

Order your copy of
"GOTTA DATE TONIGHT?"

Price I5 cents

 

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue. New Yorlc City I

Powwow on the Playground

(Continued from page 65)

our “Indians” from pool and park. Some device
was needed to arouse the curiosity of an entire
neighborhood and to assure heads popping out of
windows.

Why not a parade? Toy drums were gathered, as
well as tambourines, bells, and anything that would
attract attention. Indian costumes or blankets were
acquired and some of the boys borrowed mother’s
lipstick for war paint! The Indians lined up be-
hind a large wrapping paper sign which had been
painted to advertise the event and away they
marched, enjoying themselves thoroughly. Maybe
this would succeed in bringing out a crowd.

It did! The parade not only brought out more
children than could possibly live in the immediate
neighborhood but also their parents. Mothers and
fathers filled up the few benches, lined up all
around the playground, and still kept coming.
Some of them looked as if they would have en—
joyed playing Indian themselves.

The games had to be simple because complicated
directions for such a large group would have been
impossible. They were highly competitive and

108

Junior Arts and Activities

for the elementary
teacher

and

ACTIVITIES ON PARADE
for the pupils

THE MOST COMPLETE
EDUCATIONAL PLAN
EVER PUBLISHED

TEACHER :

you owe it to
yourself and to
your pupils to
know how these
two monthly
publications

can help you

0
‘ Send 25c for Sample Copies to

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES

740 Rush Street. Chicago. Ill.

really exciting. First came a “contest of skill.”
Bowls of beans were given to each tribal circle and
each brave received a straw, By sucking in through
the straw, he drew out as many beans as possible
before the drums stopped beating.

Beans were hoarded carefully until each mem-
ber of the tribe had a chance to prove his prowess,
then the total for the circle was counted. As in
each competition, the highest tribe was given five
points, the next team three, then two, and the last
one. These points were posted on a scoreboard to
determine the winning tribe at the end of the
Powwow.

The tug of war created great excitement, as did
the potato race and shuttle relays. But in spite of
great enthusiasm, the tribes stayed together and
took pride in maintaining their circles. The atmos-
phere was one of wholehearted sportsmanship and
a real desire to emulate all good Indian qualities.

Since some things should be done for the sheer
joy of doing them, there were no prizes. At the
close, all tribes joined hands in one tremendous
circle for the announcement of the winners. War
whoops and applause, re—echoing over the play-

 

POWWOW ON THE PLAYGROUNDS

ground, proved that the Indians had enjoyed them—
selves heartily.

Had there been more time, community singing
and the flag salute would have made a fitting close,
but darkness fell swiftly'and sent the happy war—
riors home to bed.

While the Powwow was simple enough in itself,
it. has innumerable possibilities. Indian crafts and
legends told as the children work might easily
make the Powwow the project of a month or more.
Beadwork has always fascinated children and it is

possible to make things which may well be sold for
war relief.

Oatmeal boxes, decorated with authentic designs
found in books of Indian crafts, can be made into
tom—toms for ceremonial dances. Decorating the
drums will teach the youngsters bits of Indian sign
language, and simple dance steps can be learned
for a final pageant or special feature of the Pow-
wow. War paint and tribal performances are made
to order for boys who need to burn up surplus
energy. '

i The ever useful brown paper bag lends itself to
making masks for many Indian dances. Features
can be painted with show card colors, and braids
for the hair may be made of crepe paper. Surpris-
ing effects can be obtained from these inexpensive
materials. Boys and girls will love rummaging
through the library for books on mask-making,
Indian lore, and other background material.

Let's All Sing Together!
(Continued from page 85)

' For the first and later sings the program of
songs was published to give the public a chance to
brush up on old and new favorites. The local radio
stations stood by to notify the public of any sing
cancellation because of bad weather.

We expected a crowd of perhaps several hun—
dred on the opening night, but ten thousand peo-
ple arrived! \Vhat to do with this large crowd—
could they see the words on the screen———could
they hear the music? Many changes had to be
made after the first sing. From a six by eight foot
screen, we had to graduate to a twenty-four by
twenty-four screen so the folks sitting a block
away could see the words of the songs flashed on
this huge sheet of canvas.

The ordinary song slide would not enlarge suf—

RECREATION

I
I
I

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 109

ficiently for the audience to see, so the photography
department of the W orld-H erald developed a slide
which reflects the letters approximately two feet
in height when flashed at a distance of fifteen
yards. Now the words can be read at a distance

of two blocks.

A Hammond organ is used as the musical ac—
companiment, and a system of loud speakers car-
ries the music and the voice of the director
throughout the entire park, which is one of
Omaha’s largest. The special baton used by the
director can be seen blocks away.

Each program consists of thirty numbers—both
new and old—~and usually includes several hymns.
After conducting a poll to determine which types
of songs were liked best, we discovered to our
surprise that pOpular s'ongs rated first, with the old
favorites and hymns second. Older folks seemed
to enjoy hearing the youngsters sing new tunes
and gradually fell in line with them, singing songs
whose words oftentimes were difficult to pronounce.

At the final all-request program last summer
we used:

God Bless America
Slopes of Elmwood
The More We Get Together

Oh, You Beautiful Doll
The Quilting Party
Song of the Air Corps

Omaha Artillery Song
Onward Christian Soldiers Anchors Aweigh
Little Brown Church Quartermaster Song
One Dozen Roses Coast Guard

Marching Along Together
Daisy-Daisy

East Side, West Side

The Bowery

Jingle, Jangle, Jingle
The Band Played On

A mapola
Brahm’s Lullaby

Moonlight and Roses Man on the Flying Trapeze-
Red Wing Three Blind Mice (round)

Battle Hymn of the Republic Taps
Good Night, Neighbor Star-Spangled Banner

As we watched the crowds of people gathering
on the hillside we wondered what individual re—
actions would be when the first song was flashed
on the screen. Most people are afraid to sing, but
as one group expressed it: “\Ve community sing—
ers boom right out and let the chips fall where
they may.”

These community sings not only give the in-
(lividual pleasure and an outlet for personal emo—
tions, but also raise the morale of the city. Natur-
ally with such great masses singing together, one
cannot expect great artistic results. What is more
important, however, in this case is the community

(Continued on next page)

MAY 1943

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES
The American City, April 1943

Recreation in Small Communities, by J. Ray Leevy.
(Study of sponsorship and facilities of leisure-
time activities in 62 towns and villages)

Journal of Health and Physical Education, March 1943

Fitness Through Day Camping, by William M.
Grimshaw, Ed. D.

National Parent-Teacher, March 1943

Should Children Play at War? by Sidonie Matsner
Gruenberg

Ohio Parent Teacher. April 1943
Recreation and Delinquency, by Gordon Jeffrey

Parents' Magazine, April 1943
Fun at Home, by Elizabeth F. Boettiger

Successful Farming, April 1943

Early Chapel Brings ’Em Back Alive, by Clayton P.
Shepard

Survey Graphic, April 1943

East Side Youth: Westchester Farmers, by Julita
Martinez

PAMPHLETS
Playthings for Blind Babies. by Harriet E. TOtman

American Foundation for Blind, 15 West 16th Street,
New York City. Price 10 cents

Serve by Saving, reprinted from The Camp Fire Girl,
November 1942. Cleverly illustrated outline of proj—
ects for girls

Camp Fire Girls, 88 Lexington Avenue, New York
City. Price 10 copies for 15 cents; 100 for 85 cents

Services to the Armed Forces. How the American Red
Cross helps to meet the human needs of servicemen
and their families '

American National Red Cross, Washington, D. C.

Schools and ll/Ianpower—Today and Tomorrow. Twenty—
first yearbook of the American Association of School
Administrators

American Association of School AdministratOrs, 1.201
$Sixtaaenth Street, N.VV., Washington D. C. Price
1.0

The Negro and the War. Pennsylvania German Arts and
Crafts. Post-\Var Agenda
Practicing Democracy in the College

Relays and Races for Field and Hall
Your Wings

War Handbook. \Vhat the P.T.A. can do to aid in the
nation’s war program '
National Congress of Parents and Teachers, 1600
South Michigan Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois

Wartime Handbook for Education. Practical suggestions

"for wartime policies and procedure in schools
National Education Association, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N. W., \Nashington,  C. Price 15 cents

What Democracy lifeans in the Elementary School. Edu-

cation and national defense series, Pamphlet No. 6,
U. S. Office of Education
Superintendent of Documents, \Vashington, D. C.
Price 15 cents

(Continued on next page)

110 . IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

Magazines and Pamphlets

(Continued from. previous page)

What the Schools Should Teach in Wartime. Educational

Policies Commission
National Education Association, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. Price 10 cents

White House Conference on Children in a Democracy.
A final report
Superintendent of Documents,_ Washington, D. C.
Price 65 cents

Your Community in the War, A Guide Book of Home-
Front Activities

Kiwanis International, 520 North Michigan Ave,
Chicago, Ill.

Your Library and Some People You Don’t Want in It

by Munro Leaf. Written in the author’s famous style

H. W. Wilson Company, 950 University Avenue,
New York City. Price 50 copies for $1.00

Youth Publications. A classified bibliography of leaflets,
pamphlets, manuals, bulletins, courses of study, and
books for youth groups and their leaders. Includes an
excellent section on recreation

International Council of Religious Education, 203

North Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. Price 25
cents

Let's All Sing Together!

(Continued from previous page)
thought which unites all the people and brings
them together under the influence of song.

The only change that may be made this year will
be the rotation of the sings to various sections of
the city. Although we were not affected by the
tire rationing last year, we may have to carry our
1943 program to the larger communities within the
city due to the gasoline shortage.

From past experience, however, we believe that
despite the shortages our mammoth sings will still
be held at Elmwood Park where large crowds can
be accommodated. The public seems to enjoy the
great masssinging and arrangements are being
made to handle crowds of 15,000 to 20,000 singers
each Sunday evening this summer.

Substitute for a Saloon
(Continued from page 77)

Watseka has a population of 3,700. There are
250 students in the high school. According to M.
F. Egdorf, the principal, all but 80 of these belong
to the Youth Center. Most Of these 80 live on
farms and must take "school busses home immedi-
ately after classes. Egdorf is president of the ex-
ecutive committee which operates the Center.

Organizations that are credited with having
helped to put across the idea are the Kiwanis
Club, Lions Club, Woman’s Club, senior " and
junior, all the churches, the Iroquois Club, the
American Legion and Auxiliary, and the Business
and Professional W'omen’s Club '

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 95)

much after the fashion of the Yonkers Public
Library Bookmobile. The idea will be as suitable
for playgrounds as for rural schools. Bulletin 330,

April 1942, pp. 75-116.

“National Forest V acations.’ Send for free
booklet, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington,
D. C.

National Parks, Twenty-eight Protected Primi-
tive Areas in National Parks as “Research Areas,”
by S. Charles Kendeigh. Reprint from Ecology,
Vol. 23, No. 2, April, 1942.

1

“National Resources Development Report for
1943: Part I.” Plan and Program—National Re-
sources Planning Board. 81 pp. 25 cents. Avail-
able from the Government Printing Office, Wash-
ington, D. C.

Nature Hobby. Why not a club session on
making a nature hobby an integral part of the
room or home furnishings instead of just clutter?

Nature Recreation. “The Road of a Natural-
ist,” Donald C. Peattie. Houghton Miii‘lin, New
York. 315 pp. $3.00. Joshua tree, the Mojave,
and western conifers.

Nature N ews. “The Notch News” is published
by the children of the Worcester, Mass., Natural
History Museum. Martha B. Hall is Curator of
the Children’s Department. Vol. I, No. I, was
issued in February 1943. Those sponsoring such
publications might like to establish an exchange.
Nature-grams has listed several such projects.

Nature Observation Club, Senior High, Altoona,
Pa., has planted over 1,000” trees and maintains
bird feeding stations. Harold D. Yoder is in-
structor.

Neighborhood Music Nights
(Continued from page 89)

and learning to sing them properly, more com-
bined programs can easily be arranged. Informal
meetings can be held at the school auditorium
where special talent in each group could perform
for the other groups ,and thus stimulate greater
interest in the programs.

Why not talk over this idea with your O.C.D.
oflicers and get their help in promoting a similar
program in your town? If you work for music, it
will work for you!

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Art of Living in Wartime

By Marjorie Barstow Greenbie. Whittlesey House, Mc-
Graw-Hill Book Company, New York. $2.50.

How TO GET the most out Of living- at a time when our
activities are restricted and war is forcing so many ad-
justments upon us is the theme of Mrs. Green'bie’s latest
book. Written delightfully and in a philosophical vein,
the book, with its common-sense point of view on present-
day living, has much to offer the individual and family
group in meeting their problems.

Camping and the Community

Association Press, New York. $1.00.
THIS IS THE REPORT of the camp seminar held at George
Williams College March 13-15, 1942. The seminar
considered several phases of camping, particularly in rela-
tion to the war situation, and the information which has
come out of the seminar includes helpful material for all
interested in meeting some of the basic problems which
the camping movement is facing. The contribution which
the camp can make to stability was stressed, and consid-
eration was given to -ways in which both private and
organized camping can develop effective democratic liv-
ing in camp. A generous proportion of the report is given
over to a statement of principles and practices in com-
munity planning for camping, and practical suggestions
are offered for cooperative action in providing adequate
camping opportunities for all groups. There are also sug-
gestions for providing more opportunities for creative

experiences in camp, and the needs of the older adolescent
are emphasized.

Out of Doors in Spring and Out of

Doors in Summer

By C. J. Hylander. The Macmillan Company, New York.
$1.50 each.

THESE Two VOLUMES are the first of a set of four books
designed to help young people renew their acquaint-
ance with some plants and animals and form new friend-
ships with others. Each book takes its reader out of

doors and describes the world of nature at a particular
season.

Masks and Puppets

By Dana Saintsbury Green. The Studio Publications,
London and New York. $3.50.

THIS BOOK COVERS the whole field of puppetry, explain-
ing in detail the suitabilities, construction, and manipu-
lation of various types of puppets. Going. beyond this, the
book explains the more advanced questions of masks and
faces, costumes, scenery, the theater itSelf, and the pro-
duction of the puppet play as a whole. There are many
illustrations, diagrams, and photographs in this attractive

book which is an important guide to the beginner in
mastering this fascinating art.

MAY 1943

Art Metalworkl A Manual for Amateurs

By Emil F. Kronquist. W-hittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inc., New York, $2.75.

(I O TIMOROUS YOUNG ADVENTURER into the mysteries of

beautiful old craftsmanship rwill here fail of his
sure help,” says Milton C. Potter, Superintendent of
Schools in Milwaukee, of Mr. Kronquist who taught there
for many years. In his book, this Swedish artist applies,
with the aid of numerous excellent drawings and only
essential reading matter, the principles which have proved
successful in his teaching. Because of priorities, the metal
craftsman’s materials are necessarily limited. However,
many of the articles described here may be made of silver,
which is available.

Almanac for Americans

By$2V7igillis Thornton. Greenberg: Publisher, New York.

HERE Is A NEW KIND or ALMANAC—the story of our
United States told day by day, for the glorious events
of the Republic’s history are not limited to the Fourth of
July and a few other holidays. ‘Every day has been made
memorable by deeds and personalities, and this record of
them cannot fail to bring home to every American a sense
of the richness of American life and history.

Forestry in Wartime

U. S. Department of Agriculture. Obtainable from Super-
intendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. $.05.

THE REPORT of the Chief of the Forest Service, 1942,
discusses the impact of the war on the nation’s forests,
highlights the war activities of the Service, and shows
how much of the regular work actually contributes to
war objectives. Earle H. Clapp, Acting Chief, estimates
that for the current fiscal year 80 per cent of all funds
available will be spent on war activities. Concern is ex-
pressed in the report over the difficulties involved with a
skeleton force in administering and protecting the 176
million acres of national forests. The Forest Service
expresses its belief, however, that essential war needs can
be met without destroying the forests, and it believes that
nation-wide regulation of cutting practices is needed now
as a major feature Of a comprehensive program of public
action to safeguard adequately the future productivity Of
all forest land.

Build It Yourself 1

By$1h§gchael Rothman. Greenberg: Publisher, New York.

Now THAT YOU CANNOT hop into‘the car and drive off
for the day, perhaps you can find time to do some of
the things at home which you’ve been putting off! If
you are one of the peOpIe who likes to make things, this
book will help you produce some attractive low-cost fur-
niture for your home—perhaps an unusual bookcase, an

111

112 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

interesting cabinet or chest of drawers, or some other use—
ful and decorative article. All the details are here from

selecting woods and caring for tools to applying finishes
to the furniture you have made.

Now That We Have to Walk.
Exploring the Out-of-Doors.

By Raymond Tifft Fuller. E. P. Dutton and Com-
pany, Inc., New York. $2.50.

A delightful book opening up to all of us the beauty of
the world around us, which “now that we have to walk"
may be discovered with the expenditure of a little effort
that will bring rich rewards. Not only the delights of
nature are discussed, but hobbies, handicrafts and home
arts, the reclaiming of old houses, and the opening up of
blocked fireplaces. There are chapters on birds, on keep-
ing bees, on woodland rambles, and on walking in winter.

Mr. Fuller has given us a stimulating book which fills
a wartime need.

Applied Leathercraft.

By Christ H. Gronenian. The Manual Arts Press,
Peoria, Illinois. $2.50.

No pains have been spared in making this book as
useful as possible. The more than two hundred illustra—
tions include 133 photographs showing clearly how each
step is done, the materials used for each project, and
what the finished article will look like. A thirty page
section at the back is devoted to drawings of designs that
have been especially popular with the authorfs students.
There is also a section on Boy Scout accessories taken up
in detail. '

Historic Costume.

By Katherine Morris Lester. The Manual Arts
Press, Peoria, Illinois. $3.50. -

In this, the third revised and enlarged edition, new
text material has been added throughout the book, while
a new chapter on “American Costume—1920-l940" brings
the volume up to date. All major drawings have been
enlarged and design details strengthened in the new edi-
tion and sixteen new full page photographs of art mas-
terpieces have been added.

Education and the Boy Scout Movement in America.

By Edwin Nicholson, Ph.D. Bureau of Publications,

gleachers College, Columbia University, New York.
.60.

Dr. Nicholson in this study attempts to make a critical
analysis of the social and educational bases of the Boy
Scout movement. In particular the study seeks to answer
two chief questions: (1) Are Scouts as a whole superior
in character to non-Scouts? (2) If so, to what extent
is Scouting responsible for the difference?

Group Work in a Year of Crisis.

gsssociation Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York.
. 0.

This «booklet contains the reports of committees of the
American ASSOCiation for the Study of Group Work for
1940-1941. These reports were given at the annual meet-

ing of the Association held at Atlantic City, New Jersey,
in June 1941.

Jiu-Jitsu.

By Frederick Paul Lowell. Barnes Dollar Sports

éiléibary. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

The author describes step by step the fundamentals of
the art Of jiu-jitsu. Sixty-one lessons are offered, pro-
gressing from defensive to offensive tactics. One hundred
and fifty photographs help the reader follow the instruc-
tions clearly and accurately.

Adventuring Together.

By Louise Adler. Juvenile House of Juvenile Ser-
gig?) League, 974 East 156th Street, New York City.

It was Six years ago that Juvenile House, a settlement
house and community center_in the Bronx, New York
City, began its camping program with a home camp, and
by a step by step method progressed to a camp of its own
with, five buildings, 139 acres of land and a lake. How
it was done; how the camp program developed; the part
played by the children in the development; and the les-
sons learned, are all told in an interesting story, much of
it the “Log” of the assistant director of the camp, and
letters from campers.

Camp directors and counselors will find much of inter-
est in this adventure in camping.

Saga of the CCC.

By John D. Guthrie. American Forestry Associa—
tion, 919 Seventeenth Street, Washington, D. C. $1.00.

Major Guthrie, who was liaison officer at Fort Sam
Houston, Texas, for over a year and later general in-
spector for Department of Agriculture camps, has known
the CCC from its beginning in March, 1933. He has seen

thousands of camps in every corps area, and in almost
every state. His Saga is real—“a v1v1d and dramatic

picture of the camps, the enrollees, how they live and
work. Marshall Davis’ delightful drawuigs are Similarly
true to life for he was once a CCC enrollee himself.

 

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, President

JOHN G. \YINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board

GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT \VOODs BLISS, \N’lashington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTII, Moline, lll.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, \Vest Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN IIARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Ilicxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. II.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERv, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SicMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTII, Washington" I). C.
J. C. \VALsn, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. \VARDURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

New Helps for Your Camp Program

(Available through the National Recreation Association)
Teen Trouble . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ .10

(Some of the problems boys and girls in their teens face in wartime are
presented and the experiences of a number of cities in meeting the prob-
lem through recreation are cited.)

“Gotta Date Tonight?” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

(A collection of articles from recent issues of RECREATION for teen age

bo s and girls.)
WWW?" y

The Picnic Book .'. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..'... 1.25

(Not only picnic programs but suggestions for many novel' outdoor
programs and activities are offered.)

Parties Plus—Stunts and Entertainments . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

Parties Plus—Fun for Threesomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
(Social recreation adapted to wartime situations.)

Games for Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

(Indoor and outdoor active and quiet games.)

Leader’s Nature Guide, by Mme Canberra. Girl Scouts, Inc., available 35

from National Recreation Association
(Many interesting suggestions are offered for your nature program.)

Victory Gardens—Harvesting and Drying . . . . . . . . . . . .25

(Simple suggestions for drying vegetables and fruit from your Victory
Garden and for making attractive containers for herbs.)

Let Freedom Sing—A Wartime Guide for Music Leaders . .20
Hands Up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35

(Finger plays and stunts.)
.

AND, LEST YOU FORGET ——

There are the not-so-new but exceedingly helpful booklets and mimeo-
graphed bulletins, such as Crafts in Wartime, $.35; Let’s Sing the Same
Songs, $.05 each or $2.50 per 100, plus carrying charge; Seven Hymns
for Everyone, $.02 each or $1.10 per 100; Mental Games (MP323), $.10;
Card Games for Everybody (MP324) , $.10; Katchina Dolls and the Indian
Give Away, $.15; Adventuring in Nature, $.60.

Send for a complete list of the
publications issued by the

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

