“ RECOGNIZE the priority of the home as an edu-

cational institution both in time and importance,
and assert the foster function of the school. I believe
it wise to prolong infancy in the home atmOSphere.
I believe it is unwise to take children away from their
parents who are their normal teachers before they are
physically and socially prepared to leave, since it tends
to deprive the children of the most understanding and
tender guidance which life oEers, and the community
of the humanizing influencing upon adults of little
children in the home. I believe that a good school can
never become a suflicient substitute for a good home.
I believe that the prOperly conducted school never
militates against the home or tries to remove school
children out of the home precincts. I believe that good
playgrounds and social centers can do much to com-
pensate for any unsatisfactory home conditions and
positively improve home conditions.” — Milton C.
Potter, Superintendent of Schools, Milwaukee, in a
message addressed to his successor, his fellow lVIil-
waukeeans in homes and schools, as well as to the
Board of School Directors.

HE type of city one lives in is often judged to a large

degree by the extent and uses of leisure. If the citi-
zens of York engage in creative and constructive activi-
ties in their spare time; the tone of the city is advanced;
if they indulge in useless destructive activities, there is
deterioration and progress is retarded. Work is most
necessary in York for the sake of subsistence, and no city
is able to exist without it. Yet the culture of our city is

built up mainly during the spare time of our people.

Leisure then, when pr0perly interpreted, is usually
an opportunity to engage in activities (not inactivities)

which are not required by the practical necessities of life.

Idleness is merely a way to speed time, or rather,

to waste it.

The purpose of public recreation in York is to stimu-
late the interest pf the pe0ple of our city to participate

in wholesome, worth-while activities.

—From an address by Herbert F. Anderson, Director
of Parks and Public Pr0perty, York, Pa.

Recreation Declared Essential

WORK IN THE FIELD OF RECREATION, except for the selective
service draft, is now classified by our Federal government as essential.

Of course, wartime or peacetime, it is essential to keep on'living,
to have zest for living.

In wartime, recreation is more than ever essential, when usual
values are suspended, when homes are broken up, when always there
is uncertainty, and a telegram may arrive at any hour.

_ The question for recreation workers in such a period is this:—
Are we making our job in recreation really essential?

Are we thinking about ourselves, our careers, recognition for
ourselves—or are we losing all thought of ourselves and thinking
only of how each hour may be made to count for the people we serve?

Are we giving all that we have? Are we using all our powers?
Are we turning in a real job? Are we making our war contribution
such that we are practically irreplaceable?

If you yourself were commander-in-chief would you leave your~
self where you are, or would you say, “He’d better get in training
to go to that Second Front”?

An essential job is kept essential only when it is done in an
essential spirit. In other words, the recreation leader can loaf, can
be trivial, careless. It is axiomatic to say that he himself as well as
his government must declare and keep his job essential—if it is to
be truly so.

We can see that religious leaders, health workers, teachers are
essential. We hope that others can see as we see and as our national
government sees that recreation leaders in keeping zest for living, in
keeping up mental stability, alertness, steadiness, absence of hysteria,
physical strength, are equally essential. And do we not daily dedi—
cate ourselves to keeping our part in war service truly essential?

 

NOVEMBER I943

 

421

Loam-5y board of Park commissioners, Minneapolis, Minnesota

RECREATION

 

lndoor Centers for the Dimout

'  t _ - 5‘11"»:

 

.

San Diego is meeting the problem

NE 01“ THE EFFECTS of the
0 war on coast cities was the

necessary elimination of
Sport and play field lights for
night activities. Normally, tennis, softball and ad-
jacent children’s play areas were in use in San
Diego at night, attracting spectators and partici-
pants in large numbers. These areas, located in
many parts of the city, were considered neighbor-
hood centers for recreation activities. Unfortu-
nately, just when such programs were most essen—
tial for teen age patrons, restrictions of outside
lights necessitated their discontinuance. But as a
substitute for the outdoor program, four emer—
gency indoor recreation centers were opened in
vacant stores or markets leased and equipped for

the purpose.

In the selection of locations, juvenile conditions
and type of neighborhood were taken into consid—
eration. The central idea was to attract teen age
boys and girls who have time on their hands and
are surrounded by wartime conditions often of a
destructive nature.

The buildings are divided into a lounge area,
with a radio and record attachment, books and

NOVEMBER 1943

of the West Coast dimout with

tour emergency indoor recreation
centers for teen age boys and girls

magazines, comfortable chairs, a
table game section, and a pool
and table tennis section. Part-
time workers are in charge, gen-
erally one man and one woman.

The promotion of the program involves frequent
change in game equipment, tournaments, song
fests. It is felt that the success of the undertaking
will depend largely upon the variety in the pro-
gram, fitting the activity to the age groups and
creating an atmosphere of friendliness with the
right mixture of control or discipline in use and
care of facilities. Such centers should be furnished
as attractively as possible. During school hours
when boys and girls cannot attend, the centers can
be used by adults for various types of activities
which contribute to the war effort. Red Cross
classes and production groups, ration boards, citi—
zens’ safety councils and other civic activity groups
working on war projects often can be accommo-
dated in these centers.

Opportunity for the teen agers, however, is now
of first importance. Attention of city officials and
civic organizations is being increasingly directed to
this problem.

423

A Creative Community Christmas

Reprinted from THE CHRISTMAS BOOK*

IT WAS IN A TOWN of about six thou-
sand, the center of a rural county in
3" mid-Wisconsin, but it might have been

in a much larger town, a completely
urban area, and still have called into a meaningful
community expression the varied and often hidden
gifts of all the people living there.

Early in November, at two leaders’ meetings of
rural club representatives especially interested in
music and at an evening meeting open to all mem-
bers of the clubs, there was a suggestion that we
take advantage of the nearness of Christmas and
celebrate with a simple festival. We sang “Silent
Night” and recalled how much more deeply and
warmly we feel the meanings of Christmas when
we sing carols. That deepening of the meanings
of an occasion, so that we enter fully into them,
was said to be the main purpose of a festival.

“What are the meanings of Christmas?” we
asked. The wonder, reverence, and divine promise
of the coming of the Child, and the love of our
children and a sense of their high promise that go
with that wonder and reverence is one set of
Christmas meanings. Another has to do with the
ancient peoples’ ever-recurring renewal of hope
and joy at the winter solstice, the general friend-
liness and jollity, the feasting, the burning Yule
log, and the delight in the evergreen trees that
maintain their freshness and beauty when all the
other trees and plants have seemingly died.

What could we do to celebrate the wonder and

reverence, the religious side? The telling of the
Christmas story was

suggested—a Na-
tivity Play. St.
Francis of Assisi,
someone said, was
confronted by this
same question when
he gave the first Na-
tivity Play in 1223
to make the story
plain to the country
people of his com-
munity in Italy. We

'Available from The Na-
tional Recreation As-
sociation, 50 cents.

 

424

 

talked of how he did it and it was suggested that
we make such a play with no directions save what
are implied in the story itself as told by St. Luke
and St. Matthew. To heighten the interest in do-
ing this and to enrich the emotional tone of the
meeting,—a series of stereopticon slides (obtainable
from art museums, some public libraries, and uni-
versity art departments) was shown of paintings
of the Nativity, the Adoration of the Magi, and
related scenes by the great and worshipful masters
of old Italy. The leader played familiar carols ap-
propriate to the pictures as they were shown.

Synopsis Written

A sort of synopsis of the play-to—be was then
written on a blackboard as suggestions of it were
given by various individuals in the group. And as
each scene and episode was described, the question
as to what carols could be sung to accompany it
was asked. Three carols not generally known by
the audience were suggested by the leader, but all
other carols were selected by the people them-
selves. The carols were sung during our discus—
sion, making it more interesting and vital.

This done, though tentatively, we talked again
of the jolly aspects of Christmas, sang “Deck the
Hall with Boughs of Holly,” and then discussed
how we could celebrate those aspects fully. Lack-
ing immediate response and being conscious of the
approaching limitations of time and energy, the
leader suggested that the decorating of the hall,
the hanging of the greens, be itself an occasion for
celebrating with jol-
lity, procession and
lights. The outcome
of this discussion
will be apparent in
the description of
the final program
which follows.

Before the leader
left the county cen-
ter where the meet—
ings were held, a
committee was
formed to meet at a
luncheon and dis-

Print by Gedge Harmon

RECREATION

A CREATIVE COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS 425

I

cuss the Christmas festivities.
This group was comprised of
the music chairman of the
county federation of clubs,
the county superintendent of
schools, the superintendent
and the music teacher of the
schools in the county center,
the principal, the music teacher and the art teacher
of the county normal school, a leading minister,
the county agricultural agent‘and home demon-
stration agent, a volunteer drama leader who lives
in the county, the University Extension Service
drama leader, its part-time music leader, and the
visiting music leader from the National Recreation
Association. This group gave unanimous approval
of the festival project.

The most important feature of the project, for
our purpose, was the expressed intention to try to
interest all members of the rural clubs in‘ singing
familiar carols and learning new ones at their reg-
ular meetings in preparation for the festival. An-
other intention was to have the children in the
schools sing the same carols. The school music
teacher, though exceedingly busy, was very willing
to give what time she could to helping the home-
makers’ and other clubs learn the carols. One of
her high school students might also help, she said.
It was expected that some of the county normal
school students could also help in this project.
The dramatic side of the festival was to be worked
on by a few people who had had experience in the
production of plays in previous years in the county.

Home Decorations

The home demonstration agent was shown some
very interesting plans and directions for home
Christmas decorations that might happily engage
many a person in contributing to the enrichment
' of Christmas meanings. It was hoped that the
Christmas festival would in this way, as well as in
other ways, be related to the everyday life of many
a home, having its roots there and leaving them
there to be nurtured throughout the year by what
in many instances might be a new-found interest
in family cultural expression. The singing of carols
in the clubs, to sing them better and learn new
ones, was to do likewise for those groups.

Having the school children learn the same carols
that are being learned by their parents was mainly
for the same purpose of bringing about family par-
ticipation in the homes. The high school a cappella
choir was to have a very significant part in the

NOVEMBER 1943

The greens which we use for our Christ-
mas decorations tound their way into
early festivities because of certain virtues
attributed to them by the ancients and
many of them which adorned pagan rites
were later taken over to grace the cere-
monies and celebrations ofChristmas Day.

festival, thus again linking the
schools with the life of people
outside. Another reason for
the intertwining of music,
drama, crafts, procession,
home decoration, and beauty
of other kinds was the idea
that running through them
all, at best, is the same inherent will to live more
fully and significantly, to find something we love
to do, and to give ourselves to it just because it is
lovable and inspiriting and not merely another
tribute to necessity or to our material wants. All
that is best in individual and social living Springs
from that will. Music seems to be its purest and
most direct expression and the most ready to
awaken and nurture it. But for the sake of the
individual or group life as a whole, and even for
the sake of musical enjoyment itself, that will needs
to find satisfaction in such other kinds of expres-
sion as have been mentioned, and even in daily
work and social behavior.

The Festival

It began with a procession of about thirty carol-
lers who came from a rear entrance singing the
gay “Here We Come A-Caroling.” Many of the
audience, having learned this carol in our rehears-
als, also sang. The carollers in the procession
were of all ages and sizes from a four year old to
a sixty-five year old farmer who had his red-lined
winter cap turned inside out, and each one carried
a wreath or other Christmas greenery. At the
head of this gay procession was the Spirit of Joy,
a lovely high school girl in appropriate costume.
When she reached the steps in front of the middle
of the stage, she arose to the second step, beckoned
her carolling followers to stand on either side of
the steps, and exclaimed:

“I am the Spirit of Joy:
Here at the Christmastide
Where hearts are united,

I come to abide,
Let your candles !be lighted,
Your holly be hung,

Your hearth fire be merry,
Your carols be sung.

“In this of all houses .

The Christ Child will bide:

Make room for His coming,

Throw the door wide!

Hang your greens for His welcome,
Trim gaily your tree

Put wreaths in your windows,
Follow me. follow me!”

426 A CREATIVE COMMUNITY CHRISTJMAS

This poem and much else of the ceremony of
hanging the greens and lighting the candles were
drawn from the celebration of Christmas carried

on at the Y.W.C.A. in Wausau, Wisconsin, each
year.

Then as she resumed her place in front of the
line of carollers, they walked gaily around the hall
hanging the wreaths on the walls and distributing
other greenery on window sills, the front of the

stage, and the top of the piano while everyone
sang “Deck the Hall with Boughs of Holly.”

At this point two groups of school children
came marching in, each from a separate entrance,
one group singing “I Saw Three Ships Come Sail-
ing In,” and the other, later, the gay Burgundian
carol, “Patapan,” with its Willie and his drum and
its Robin and his whistle leading the procession.
Then a group of older children strolled in, singing
“We’ve Been a While A-Wandering,” followed
by a high school and rural youth group, in “The
Twelve Days of Christmas.” All except the first
of these songs is in the National Recreation Asso-
ciation’s song book Singing America.* “I Saw
Three Ships” is in Christmas Carols selected by
Nancy Graham, published by the Whitman Pub-
lishing Company of Racine, Wisconsin, and for
sale at ten cents in the five and ten cent'stores.

The decorating done, and the Spirit of Joy once
more back at the steps, she called for the lighting
of candles, saying:

“We’ll touch the taper in our hearts

To the flame of the Advent Star,
And set the light to burn a path
Where the shadowed places are.

“And some who never lift their eyes
To the Star that floods the night
May find their way to Bethlehem
By our friendly taper’s light.”

Then to each of the two seven-tapered candela-
bra, set at either side of the curtained stage, went
a blue costumed “page,” one a boy and the other a
girl, each bearing a lighted taper. As the girl
lighted a candle, a member of the county drama
committee, seated inconspicuously off to the side

and front of the audience and half facing the latter,
read:

“We light a candle for the light
and wonder in .children’s eyes
as they greet Christmas morn.”

Then, as the boy lighted a candle on his can-
delabruni, she read another sentence, this one for
the fragrance of balsam and pine. And so the
candlelighting and reading went on until each of

the fourteen candles had been lighted for some
joy of Christmas. The fourteen joys had been
chosen, and statements of them written, before-
hand by the drama committee.

Then to summon the mood of wonder and rev-
erent joy for the telling of the Christmas story,
the high school a cappella choir sang the Bach
“Break Forth, O Beauteous Heavenly Light”
from behind the closed curtains. Then the audi-
ence sang “0 Little Town of Bethlehem,” after
which a shepherd's piping was heard from behind
the curtains. The pipe was one made of bamboo
after the directions given in the National Recrea-

tion Association’s H 020 to Make and Play a Shep-
herd Pipe.“

The curtains parted, and we saw in dim light
live shepherds watching their flocks by night, one
of them walking slowly about while the other re-
clined or sat by a fire. Three of them were well
bearded for the evening and all were in heavy
bathrobes and other simple adornment just right
for an ancient shepherd’s wintry night. When the
angel appeared, whom they had indeed never seen
before, and chanted the great news, their astonish-
ment was as real a thing as could be seen on a
stage, and their movements in awe and reverence
were also very convincing. After the angels’
“Gloria” the audience sang as to the shepherds,
“0 Leave Your Sheep, Ye Shepherds on the
Hills.” They left to seek the Child while the
audience recounted what they had just seen, sing-
ing the first three stanzas of “The First Nowell.”

The curtains being now closed, the audience
sang “It Came Upon the Midnight Clear,” thus
incidentally filling the time needed to change the
scene. When the manger scene appeared, Mary
was singing the beautiful French “Sleep of the
Infant Jesus,” which can be found in Singing
America. (She, a rural schoolteacher, was the
most beautiful Mary imaginable, but despite much
eager effort on her part she could not be sure of
the tune, so two of the high school girls sang in the
wings near her while she sang.) Joseph was ex—
cellent also. The audience then sang “Silent
Night,” during the last stanza. of which the shep-
herds came down an aisle from the rear of the hall
on their way to the Child. These men, long ac—
customed to tending farm animals and walking on
rough ground, were ideal for their parts. Their

( C ontinuéd on page 472)

—-

 

‘Vocal edition, 25 cents; accompaniment edition, $1.50.
"35 cents.

RECREATION

 

Christmas Town in Moonbeam Meadow

SEVERAL thou—
sand children,
parents, friends,
and servicemen
and women arrived
at “Christmas Town in Moon-
beam Meadow” last year for the annual Christ-
mas program of the San Francisco Recreation De-
partment.

Held in the War Memorial Opera House on
December 20th, the program had a cast of 700
children and young pe0ple from all districts of the
city as well as members of music, dance, and
drama groups.

The scenes followed the adventures of the in-
habitants of the little Town of Christmas in Moon-
beam Meadow.

Night. Before a cozy fireplace the Mother is
telling her children the Christmas story. Through
the high window in the rear the carolers can be
seen passing. Then the children sleep and dream.
The picture fades and we see the snow whirling

NOVEMBER 1943

 

A Christmas fantasy, woven around

Santa Claus and the other inhabi-
tants ot the Town ot Christmasl
provided the central the-me tor San
Francisco's I942 holiday program

and falling—a Snowflake Bal-
let (Chopin series) of grace
and beauty

Morning. This scene opens
in Moonbeam Meadow, where
Santa Claus has a Toy Shop in
a little house of fantastic design and color. In the
background Santa is asleep in his colorful sleigh.

As dawn breaks in the sky, Santa awakes, yawns
and stretches. At this signal all the gnomes, funny
little creatures with long, white beards, carrying
pails and sticks, awake and scurry off to work.
Machinery hums and whirrs and there is the noise
of hammers and saws and toys. Down the chute
come hundreds of baby dolls to be dressed for
Christmas.

Dolls of many countries — England, Russia,
China, and Mexico-——now perform the dances of
their homelands in native costume to the strains of
their native music.

Noon and the twelve o’clock whistleJVVork stops

(Continued on page 465) .
427

“Deck the Halls . . 

ll ECK THE HALLS with
boughs of holly” for
this year’s Merry

Christmas Party —— a gala af—

fair planned especially for

servicemen and women who
will be the guests of honor
come Christmas Eve.

Both the men in uniform
and your next door neighbor will be tempted by
your novel party invitations in the form of Fur-
lough Passes, cut in rectangles from red and green
paper. Letter with either red or green crayon and
paste one or two small cutouts—bells, wreaths, or

holly—on the “passes.”

\Vhen finished, the invitations will read some-
thing like this: “Class ‘A’ Furlough Pass to a
Class ‘A’ Christmas Party. Destination: Home of
Mary and John Jones. Time Limit: Anytime from
7 P. M. on—night of December 24. K. P. Duty:
Upon arrival, report for decorating Christmas tree.”

Many of the old stand-by Christmas decorations
will be on the priority list this year, but you can
make the party festive with the traditional wreaths,
holly, and mistletoe. Guests have been forewarned
about helping to decorate the tree—and how the
servicemen, away from home on Christmas, will
enjoy this!

Before anyone arrives, dust off some of the more
glamorous and perishable ornaments left over from
former years and hang them on the branches your-
self, just to get a head start.

Let the early comers pop corn and then make a
game of stringing the popcorn for the tree. Give
each player a needle and thread and make the
game into a race. The short strings may be tied
together into longer strands for trimming. As a
reward, the winners are allowed to hang the corn
on the tree.

\Vhile the guests are still in the tree trimming
mood, have a cranberry relay. Divide everyone
into four groups. Provide each member of two
groups with ten berries, and each member of the
other two groups with a needle and a thread long
enough to hold ten berries.

The group with the berries lines up opposite the
group with the needle and thread. At a given
signal the leader with the cranberries runs to the
leader with the thread and strings his ten berries

428

£WW

Here's a Christmas Party' handmade tor
servicemen and women, but it can easily
be adapted to holiday festivities for
recreation centersI church groups. or the
younger set who will jump at—the chance
to help decorate the Christmas tree.

33% ‘ I

 

.as fast as he can. \Vhen he is
finished, he runs back to his
line and touches the next per—
son, who does the same thing.

The group which finishes
first wins, and again is al—
lowed to hang the berries on
the trée. Short cranberry
strings hanging straight down
from the branches make graceful ornaments.

For additional gay decorations to be pinned
about the room, provide guests with red and green
paper, black crayon and paste. Instruct them in
the art of torn-paper pictures; draw-and tear out
the parts of your picture———it may be a troop ship
guided by the star of Bethlehem or a little child
walking to church. Then draw the extra details
with crayon and paste the parts on paper, the red
on green or vice versa. All of the finished pictures
will be judged, and the person who has made the
one voted best by everyone receives a small prize.
Each person then pins his own ornament around
the room—on the curtains, chair-backs, etc.—wher—
ever he thinks it will best iit.

Christmas Eve Log. Your guest list will probably
include servicemen, war workers, or neighbors
who are working for victory by buying war bonds,
doing Red Cross work, or contributing time to
other defense organizations. Arrange a lively game
to acquaint everyone with each other—and get the
party off to a lively start! '

Divide your guests into two teams. On a table
at one end of the room place two sheets of paper
and two pencils, one for each team. Line the two
teams up at the other end of the room. At the
signal to start, the first player on each team runs
up to the paper, writes his name and a sentence of
at least six words about what he or she is doing
for the war effort; then runs back and gives the
pencil to the second player on his team, who must
do the same thing.

The team finishing first is declared the winner.
Then the leaders of each team must read off the
"log" and introduce each person. This will prove
very interesting as servicemen will write where
they are stationed and in what branch of the ser-
vice they are, while other sentences may include
anything from “riveting in a ship yard" to “donat-
ing blood to the Red Cross.”

RECREATION

“DECK THE HALLS . . .” 429

Sing a Line. Have your guests gather around in
a circle for this singing game. The hostess, in the
center, reads the first line of these Christmas
Carols. The players sing or supply the second line.
A few songs that might be used are: "

1. Silent night, holy night,
All is calm, all is bright

2. Hark! the herald angels sing,
Glory to the new—born King

3. Good King Wenceslas looked out
On the feast of Stephen

4. God rest you merry, gentlemen,
Let nothing you dismay

5. O little town of Bethlehem!
How still we see thee lie

Say It with Slang. Here’s a humorous way of
finding out just how much navy and army double—
talk your guests know. Prepare in advance two
separate sets of paper slips, the first set containing

typical army and navy terms and the second set
their definitions.

Organize two teams, giving each a set of the
slips. In spelling bee fashion, each member of a
team, in turn, will read his paper. The person on
.the other team who has the correct term or defini—
tion to complete it will raise his hand and read it
aloud. Every time a member of a team reads the
wrong term or definition, a point is given to the
other team. When all the slips of paper have been
read, the team with the most points wins.

Here are a few words and their meanings:
boot—recruit '
java—coffee
covered wagonu—aircraft carrier
A. R.-—-arrny regulations
brass hat—a commanding or staff officer
hash stripe— service

stripe
P.X.—post exchange
pill roller -—- member
of the medical
corps
bubible dancing-—
washing dishes
dog tag--rnetal iden-
tification tag worn
by all soldiers in
the Army
Mac—anyone of un-
known name at
training sta-
tion ,-
pond—ocean
prune picker—
native son of
California

NOVEMBER 1943

   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  

sparks—wireless or radio man
chowu—food or meals

j eep—general utility car

hit the deck—-get on the job
brig—detention room or cell

bean eater—native New Englander
pig boat--submarine

sick bay—hospital on ship

Candy Catchers. At one end of the room span
a rope long enough to pin on it paper bags for all
the players. Put the initials of the players on their
bags. The game is started by choosing a Santa
Claus, preferably a man in uniform. All other
players stand at a goal line at the other end of the
room with their backs toward the rope. Santa
places two pieces of candy in every paper bag but
one and in this one he puts a whistle, carefully
wrapped in paper.

This done, he gives the signal for the other
players to rush to the line, empty and replace their
bags and then dash to the goal line for safety
before the one who found the whistle can unwrap
it, count to five, and blow it.

When the whistle is blown, all who are not safe
on the goal line must stop where they are and for—
feit one of their pieces of candy to the whistler.
The whistler chooses the next Santa from among
the number who reached the goal safely.

Each bag should be clearly initialed so the player
can tell it quickly, for each Santa is allowed to
move the bags. The game continues until every
player has been the whistler once, and the winner
is the one who succeeds in getting the most candies.

Christmas Geography. Our fighting men will be
celebrating Christmas this year in all corners of
the globe. The hostess will compile a list of places
which she will read to the
guests who must give their
approximate location. The
person with the longest list
of correct answers
wins. A few places
which may be used
for this game are:
Kiska—one of the

Aleutian Islands, off
the Alaskan coast

Panama City — in the
Republic of Panama,

Canal Zone, Central
America

Oahu—in the Hawai-

ian Islands, North
Pacific Ocean

Print by Gedge Harmon

430 “DECK THE HALLS . . 

San Juan—Puerto Rico, West Indies, southwest of

Florida
Messina—northwest tip of Sicily in the Mediterranean

Sea
Reykjavik—southwest part of Iceland
Calcutta—northeast coast of India, on the Bay of Bengal
Birzerte—Tunisia, North Africa
Darwin—north coast of Australia
Dover—southeast coast of England

Imitations. Have some words written on small
pieces of paper and then cut them in half, all the
words to be names of things associated with Christ—
mas—Santa Claus, Christmas tree, teddy bear,
plum pudding, etc.

Cut up words in a hat and have each person
draw one, then find the person who has the other
half. When this is done, each pair has to imitate
the word their combined slips spell.

Sometimes it would be easier for one person to
do this as would be the case with Santa Claus),
but both must take part. Thus one of the pair
could represent Santa Claus and the other say to
him: “Please bring me a new doll.” In the case of
Christmas tree, one stands straight and tall with
arms upraised and the other makes believe he is
trimming a “tall, straight tree.”

Blowing Out the Christmas Candle. This game
has been popular in England since early times.
Place a large Christmas candle in a holder and set
it in the center of the room. One by one, blind—
fold the guests, turn them around and tell them to
blow out the Christmas candle. Of course the play-
ers will usually head in the opposite direction. Each
person has three blows and the first to extinguish
the candle receives a prize of a piece of Christ-
mas candy.

Christmas Mail. The leader
stands at a far end of the room
behind a table on which is
placed a collection of Christ—
mas cards—one less than the
number taking part in the
game.

Then, while the pianist plays °
Christmas Carols or military
songs, the players march around
the room. When the music
stops, everyone rushes to the
table for the cards, and the
person failing to get any mail,
drops out of the game. The
leader then removes a card and

 

the fun starts all over again with those who have
dropped out of the game watching the lively pro-
ceedings from the sidelines.

When Do We Eat? By this time everyone will
be ready to form a chow—line into the dining room
for the long awaited refreshments.

Prominently displayed in the “mess hall” will
be bowls of apples, popcorn, and nuts which your
guests will crack themselves.

Heading the refreshment list may be a Christ-
mas Candle Salad, made by placing a thick slice
of apple on a bed of lettuce leaves. Insert a carrot
in the hole of the apple slice, top this off with a
cranberry for a dame, and pour mayonnaise down
the side of the carrot to represent the wax. Whole
apples, hollowed out in the middle, may also be
used to support the carrot.

All kinds of easy—to-make, economical sand-
wiches can carry out the Christmas theme. Cut
slices of bread with a star-shaped cutter and spread
cream cheese and cranberry jelly on top. Place
another star, with the center removed, on top of
this. The same thing can be done for wreath sand-
wiches, using a round cutter. Spread the edges
lightly with mayonnaise and dip in finely chopped
parsley to give the wreath effect.

For assorted Yule cakes, cut hard sugar cookies
and gingerbread cake in Christmas tree, star, ani-
mal, and other holiday shapes. Garnish attractively
with colored sugars, icings, nuts and candied fruits-

How about some steaming hot chocolate and
cakes over which your guests can linger, singing
Christmas Carols before the final “Goodnight and
a very merry Christmas to you all!”

One of the happiest traditions
of our great holiday season is
the custom of drinking a wish
for health and happiness to the
assembled guests. The earliest
expression used thus‘at Christ-
mas was perhaps ,“wassail.”
This is a contraction of the

Middle English “waes hael,”
meaning “be thou well.”

Recipes for wassail, English
plum pudding, and other Christ-
mas foods will be found in The
Christmas B 00k, available from
the National Recreation Asso-
ciation for 50 cents.

RECREATION

Christmas tor the Birds

By MARY DAGGETT LAKE
Director Fort Worth Garden Center

OR WEEKS before Christmas, children in the
F elementary grades of Fort Worth, Texas, re-

hearse Christmas carols in anticipation of
“The Birds’ Christmas Tree,” a program spon-
sored each of the past five years by the city’s Gar-
den Center. _

Several thousand children representing almost
every elementary school in the city, members of the
local Audubon Society, garden club members, and
naturelovers
attend the cele-
bration which
is always held
the week before
C h r i s t m a 5,
either on Friday
afternoon or on
Saturday morn-
ing.

The children
bring their gifts
of food, bird
houses, bird
baths, and other
i t e m s t h at a
bird might en-
joy and place
them either on
the trees or at their base, at the same time sing-
ing their carols. A school or'chestra adds interest
to the celebration.

The Birds’ Christmas Tree idea originated in
the far N orthland, in Norway, Sweden, and Den-
mark. In these countries each family places a
. sheaf of grain on a pole or near the gable of the
barn for the birds’ Christmas dinner. In Norway
the young people spend the day before Christmas
tying bunches of grain to trees, fences, and house-
t0ps for the birds. ‘

The birds in the Northland are never forgotten
during the holidays. Often one finds birch saplings
stuck in snowdrifts, the branches heavy with
sheaves of ripened grain, a silent tribute of appre-
ciation to the birds ——and much food for them as
well.

In the same manner,
the Birds’ Christmas Tree
in Fort Worth welcomes
the birds to the Botanic

NOVEMBER 1943

     

"Saving our birds is not mere sentiment. It
is something that must be done if we are to con-
tinue to keep America a pleasant land in which

to live."—Will O. Doolittle in Park Birds.

Garden—a sanctuary consisting of a clump of
native mesquites, redhaws, and barberry bushes.
The birds are welcome here all during the winter,
and the caretakers of the Garden feed them, Christ-
mas or not.

There are many birds in the Botanic Garden
the year round and all of Fort Worth’s 100 com-
munity playgrounds and parks are bird sanctuaries.

The gardeners have counted as many as twenty-
live different

-M .. __,. _- - kinds of birds

1

Q
l
I I

f e e d i n g t o-
gether in and
about the tree
after it has been
decorated for
them——-cardi—
nals, wrens,
Mexican ori-
oles, blackbirds,
grackles, and
the state’s own
mocking bird.

The birds’
tree festival,
with its distri—
bution of gifts
and its carol
singing by the children, has become a part of Fort
\Vorth tradition. It brings more birds to the parks,
gathers thousands of children together every year,
and teaches them to love the birds.

The Fort Worth Garden Center, located in the
heart of the city’s beautiful 37%; acre Botanic
Garden, sponsors recreation projects in the Gar-
den and in other Fort Worth parks. The sponsors
of the Garden Center think the public has over- .
emphasized strenuous recreational features to the
exclusion of the equally important quieter side of
recreation, and to offset this mistake, programs
are directed to such pastimes as nature hikes to
study and observe birds, insects, and animals of
the parks and trips to the zoo and municipal gardens.

The children’s story hour conducted each Fri-
day afternoon after school
by the women principals
of the Fort Worth Ele—
mentary Schools has for

(Continued on page 466)
431

Courtesy Parks and Recreation

 

Before and After—(above) a crowd of anxious +hea’rergoers wai’r for +heir
defense-sfamp ’ricke’rs, and (below) ’rhe audience regis’rers ifs approval

 

432 RECREATION

Curtain Going Up!

By ALICE GILBERTSON

National Recreation Association

a!

nessee. If you’re only nine, you can be in

the Puppet Show at one of the Saturday
matinees at the Playhouse, a real theater for chil-
dren and by children. If you’re ten or twelve, you
might even get in the half hour musical-dramatic
Radio Show that the Recreation Department pre—
sents every Saturday morning. If you’re in your
upper teens, you can practically take your choice
of dramatic activity, even to helping work out
lighting effects or act on the costume committee.
And if you’re a sixteen year old’s mother, you can
superintend the box office of the Playhouse.

"THE PLAY’S THE THING” at Memphis, Ten—

On one occasion, the Playhouse made the Mem-
phis neWSpapers. The story was headlined, PEA-
BODY PLAYHOUSE IS A FAMILY AFFAIR. It told

how “five members of the family of Wyndham .

Trigg will be much in evidence when the Play-
house of Peabody Community Center presents ‘Do
Unto Others.’ Mrs. Trigg will make her stage
debut. Wyndham, Jr., and Rosemary will be in
the cast. Caroline, another daughter, has helped
in painting the scenery, and Mr. Trigg will sell
war stamps in the box office. At least one and as
many as three members of this family have ap-
peared in all nine plays presented by the Play—
house this season.”

Dramatics at Memphis are interesting for six
good reasons: (1) There’s that theater for chil-
dren by children. (2) The theater itself uses a
very small space. The stage measures 14 feet by
12 feet. It seats a chummy seventy-five people.
(3) It’s complete in every detail from box office
to scenery workshop and even boasts its own out-
side entrance, yet it has been contrived from a
small extra room at one of the Memphis Recrea-
tion Centers. (4) Playhouse presentations are a
nice shake-up of ages and variety of offerings. A
Saturday afternoon performance might offer a
repetition (or rehearsal) of the regular half hour
Saturday morning broadcast of the Recreation De-
partment, a dramatic offering, a puppet show, a
movie, several variety acts, musical solos, brother
and sister duets, and impromptu acts with the

NOVEMBER 1943

 

The youngsters of Memphis have their own
junior playhouse. and they've all taken
to grease paint and tootlights—from the
pigtail crowd to the dignified senior teens

 

audience naming the “show.” (5) Saturday mati-
nees are very often a case of the subteens and teens
doing the performing and the audience made up of
the pigtail crowd. (6) In addition to the theater
for children by children, another recreation center
has a more adult dramatic group. It includes young

peOple in their early twenties, several of whom are
now in defense work.

The Playhouse was created from an average—
sized room at Peabody Community Center. (This
unusually charming center was once one of the
Memphis waterworks buildings.) A colorful
picture story of Hansel and Gretel is told on the
walls of the room and the floor is done in blocks
of bright colors. Minnie Wagner, superintendent
of the Recreation Department, and Ruth C. Bush,
Park Commission, designed the stage. Bill Myers
of the Park Commission executed the plans.

Two kinds of programs are offered by the Play-
house. Saturday 2:30 matinees are designed to
compete with the attraction of the Saturday after—
noon movie for the teen age boys and girls. Eve—
ning programs offered to the public include a
monthly play or Operetta. The 1942-43 season
presented Marian Holbrook’s “Peter, Pumpkin
Eater,” Louise Saunders’ “Knave of Hearts,” a
simplified version of “Hansel and Gretel” by Hum—
perdinck, “Little Black Sambo,” and “The Em-
peror’s New Clothes.” The hit of the year, ac—
cording to several youthful actors was “Snow
White and the Seven Jitterbugs,” a play written by

youngsters in a New York dramatic class of‘Agnes
Haaga, director of Memphis dramatics.*

There are two Playhouse groups. A junior
group made up of boys and girls nine through
twelve years of age meets each Saturday at 7 :00 RM .
An older group of boys and girls, thirteen years of
age through high school, has two 1% hour re—

 

*“Snow White and the Seven Jitterbugs” was described by Miss
Haaga in RECREATION, May 1941, in her “\Vhy Not \Vritc
Your Own Play?” .

433

434 CURTAIN GOING UP!

hearsals after school and a technical meeting on
Saturday morning. ' This is when the committee
goes into a huddle and makes momentous decisions
about stage designs and color schemes and exe—
cutes plans.

To keep the wheels of the Playhouse running
smoothly, and to provide an outlet for all talents,
committees are elected by the teen age group.
There is a committee for scenery. There is one for
costumes. Lights, properties, make-up, posters,
motion pictures, and storytelling-mall have their
committees. A secretary-treasurer became a neces—
sity when it was decided to charge an admission
fee of II cents to cover the royalty on some of the
plays. A fourteen-year-old boy owns and operates
the printing press which supplies the Playhouse
with tickets. Professional—looking tickets they are,
too! One carried the note: “50 per cent Net Pro—
ceeds go to the Army—Navy Relief Fund.” Be—
tween November and May over $400 in defense
stamps was sold at the children’s theater.

These committees are elected for the season.
Should a member of one find that a large acting
role prevents him from performing his duty, he is
responsible for appointing someone to take over
his job for that particular play. To further pro-
mote the idea of youthful entertainment by youth
itself, a committee of six women-“four of them
representatives from different Parent—Teacher or—
ganizations in the neighborhood—has been formed.

The community recreation center of another
neighborhood has a similar dramatic program for
teen age boys and girls. Its performances, how-
ever, are presented as part of a Friday night com—
munity program. A Gay Nineties Revue was one
of its presentations. This program is also directed
by Agnes Haaga.

So successful have the children’s theaters in
Memphis proved that the Recreation Department
offered an extensive program this summer that
would do credit to big—time theater.
Every Wednesday night at Peabody
Community Center and each Sunday
afternoon at beautiful Overton Park,
the youthful actors play to thousands
of Memphis children. A big bill—
board at the various playgrounds
lists the play to be given each week.

Summer Program—1943

June l3—Knozre of Hearts, by Louise
Saunders—Costume Comedy
June 20—Circus

 

June 27—Peter Pumpkin Eater, by Marian Holbrook—
Costume Comedy
July ail—Molly Pitcher, by Molly Donaldson—3 Act
Musical Show
July ll—Peter Pumpkin Eater, by Marian Holbrook
Consolation, by Charles George—Comedy in
1 Act
July 18—Robin H ood—A pageant in three acts—Original
July 25—Hansel and Gretel—Operetta Iby Humperdinck
August l——-The Hole in the Sock, Iby Emilie Sarter—
Costume Comedy
August 8—Snow White and the Seven Jitterbugs—An

original parody on the famous Grimm’s Fairy Tale
August lS—Westward Ho!-—Original
August 22—Arozmd the World with Uncle Sam—Original

This ambitious weekly series of performances is
achieved by careful plan. Director Agnes Haaga
works with three casts: the cast which is putting
on the current play, the cast that will present the
play the following week, and the cast for the third
week.

Two original plays during the summer season
repeated the success of “Snow White and the
Seven Jitterbugs.” During July, at Overton Park,
an original version of “Robin Hood” was given in
all its forest setting and color. “Around the World
with Uncle Sam” was presented in August.

Sunday performances of the children’s theater
also served as tryouts for the fall pageant when
“Robin Hood” was played on a gigantic scale in
Overton’s “Sherwood Forest.”

Richmond's Children's Theater——
Second Edition

BOUT FIFTEEN YEARS AGO a group of Richmond,
Virginia, high school boys and girls organ—
ized a group known as the Children’s Theater of
Richmond. The purpose of the group was to
translate well-known children’s stories into the
living: breathing reality of a stage performance.
The object of the Community Recre-
ation Association which sponsored
the project was to give these boys
and girls the opportunity to develop
creative talents of writing, acting,
and designing and give Richmond
children the delight and wonder of
.seeing the fairies and dwarfs and
princesses they knew so well come
to life before their eyes.
For several years the project
flourished, and when the Parent-

(Continued on page 474)
RECREATION

As Young as They Feel

ARRYING OUT the old
C adage, members of the
Friendly Club of Bir—
mingham, Alabama, act as
young as they feel—and
though their ages range from

fifty to ninety they can competein many activities

with the youngsters.

Back in September of 1939 twenty-four BirI—
mingham grandmothers organized the Do As You
Please Grandmothers’ Club. Determined not to sit
on the sidelines when there was fun to be had,
these women do everything from chatting to “cut-
ting a rug” or two. Among their many and varied
activities they include card-playing, crocheting,
knitting, weaving, checker games, skits, talks—in
short, anything they please.

Although most of the members are grandmoth—
ers, great-grandmothers, or great-great-grand—
mothers, they decided to change the club’s name
since there were a few of the group who didn’t {it
into this “grandmother” classification.

Asserting vigorously that they simply don’t con-
form with the stereotyped picture of grandmothers

The meetings of the Friendly Club
of Birmingham' Alabama. are usually

closed to young people because they
might put a damper on the fun!

at all, they finally selected
the name of the Friendly
Club for their organization.

But changing the name
doesn’t mean that these
ladieshave any qualms about
revealing their age. As their spokesman pointed
out—many women are so frightened at the pro-
spect of growing old that they either try to appear
as young as their own daughters by doing all sorts
of silly things to prove how youthful they really
aren’t or they seem to’ resign themselves to a life
of almost complete inactivity. But not these grand-
mothers! It wasn’t so long ago that many of them,
at the average age of seventy-five, made their
“stage debut” before Birmingham audiences in
their own original play at the Willow Wood Com-
munity House where club meetings are regularly
held.

Author of the one-act play was Dr. Robert Con-
nell, only grandfather in the club although mem-
bership ranks have been open to grandfathers for
some time. The oldest member of the cast was

(Continued on page 471)

 

NOVEMBER 1943

435

   
 
     

LONG TIME AGO, when Genghis Kahn was the
scourge of Europe and Asia, a certain tribe

of industrious people were forced to flee
their inland city. Leaving all behind, and journey-
ing far, they at last came to a beautiful site on the
shore of a large sea.

Before many years had passed they had built
another city, better in almost every way than the
one where they, their
fathers, mothers and their
forebears had been born.
Courageous, hardwork- 
ing people, they tilled
their fields, diverted wa—
ter from the mountains
for irrigation; the few
horses, cattle and sheep
they had held onto had
multiplied greatly. Their
herds and Hocks became large.

One day the ruler of the city called his people
together and said to them: “My people, out of the
hardships which once frightened us, we have built
a good city. Once we wandered over the plains,
and through unknown mountain passes. Now we
have homes. Once we stalked the wild beasts to
hold off starvation. Now we have food. With the

hides of animals we covered ourselves. Now we
have clothing.

436

06%

 

From the report of the Playground
and Park Commission. City of
Charlestonl West Virginia — I943

“But homes, food and clothing
are not enough,” the Ruler of the
Tribe said. “In the city of our
childhood we gained much from
the caravans as they passed by.
They brought us silks and spices,
the learning and the art of other
lands, things we now could use.
Here the caravans do not come;
and since we are not a sea-faring
people we have not yet tried to reach
the people whom we know live across
the waters of this sea, from whom came

the treasures of the East.”

The Ruler paused for a moment to look out
over the sea. Then he spoke on: “The way by
land to these distant cities is not known to us. So

Ill
div/(1%

your Chief and his advisers have determined that

we should find the means to sail over this sea. Is
there one who hears my voice who can build a
ship? Not a large ship, nor a great ship—just one
staunch and sturdy enough to take our young men
safely to and fro across these waters?”

The Ruler awaited an answer. But none came.
For these people had never lived near the sea and
there was no one who could build a ship. When

he received no answer the
Ruler asked again: “Is
there anyone who can
show others how to build
a ship?” Again there was
silence. There was no one
s . who could draw plans and
instruct others how to
build a ship.
The Ruler pondered
awhile and then, as an
inspiration came to him he cried out to the thrOng:
“There may not be one among us who can build
an entire ship, but surely there are many of us
who can build part of a ship, each in his own way
——-and in the doing we will build the ship. Is that
not so ?” he asked.

The carpenter spoke first. “That is true, 0
Chief. I cannot build a ship by myself, but I can
show men how to hew timbers, how to put them
together.”

RECREATION

THE LEGEND OF THE SHIP 437

“And I,” said the blacksmith: “I can fashion
whatever iron you need with my forge and ham-
mers.” The tentmaker spoke up: “I can make the
sail. The women who weave can make the ropes
to hold them.” The roofinaker joined in the chorus.
He would make the pitch to put between the tim-
bers. The young men, as yet unskilled, eager were
they to do the heavy labor, the carrying, lifting and
pounding.

Thus, working together, the people of the city
built a ship, not a big ship, nor even a good ship,
as a ship ought to be. But when it slid into the
water and the wind bellied out its sail, all the boys
and girls and old people, too, cheered and clapped
for joy. Across the sea it went. In time it brought
back long-missed treasures, silks, satins, spices.
jewelry, and all the things the people wanted and
needed. \Vhen the little ship finished one journey
it started on another. As time went on the car-
penter, the metal worker, the tentmaker, and all
the other workers learned to build better ships.
The city grew and prospered, its people were busy,
and life was something for all to enjoy.

Adapted from the Foreword of the Report . . .

In much the same manner as these people of
long ago built their ship, city government, and its
recreation and park boards, with the invaluable
assistance of many individuals and citizen groups,
have made the municipal recreation centers of
America what they are today. This accomplish-
ment would not have been possible except for the
many who “built part of the ship”—— those who
gave, those who helped to raise money, newspapers
and radio stations, .fraternal, labor and Negro or-
ganizations ; the American Legion, Service Clubs,
business houses, churches, Civilian Defense, PTA
groups, Youth Agencies, Women’s Clubs—the list
is. endless. The reports of the recreation systems
of the United States indicate worth-while things
that are being done every day of the year, and
not the least important indicate that a big job has
just begun.

In 1942 in the city of Charleston, West Vir-
ginia, 689 people; including
640 volunteer helpers, with—
out whose aid the program
would be handicapped indeed
—assisted in the activities.
The seventeen playgrounds of
Charleston averaged 3,500 at-
tendance per day of opera-

NOVEMBER 1943

"There is this certainty as I943 gets
under way—Charleston is thinking of
'recreation-for-everybody' in a way it
never thought before . . . all now realize
that within the bounds of their city must
be provided a type of healthful recrea-
tion which will offset the stress and
strain of wartime living and working."

tion. Yet many thoughtful citizens realize the in-
completeness of the pr0gram. It is felt that the
principal remedy lies in an informed and inter-

ested public.

At the former city stables, now the city garage,
a miracle has been performed on the second floor—
once devoted to storing hay and oats. It is now a
club for children, young boys and girls, created by
those who worked and those who gave. Far from
adequate—the boys’ and girls’ club is always busy.
Its stage, 4,500 volume library, boxing ring, show-
ers are constantly used. The ping-pong tables are
never idle. With volunteer leadership a full pro-
gram goes on day and evening. Classes are held in
photography, dancing, how to choose clothes, and

in other hobbies.

An old residence, a landmark for generations,
is a recreation center that has received national
attention. It has a large social hall, two club
rooms, a kitchen with an adjoining room for
classes in cooking, a photography and dark room,
a library and craft shop. Here weekly square
dances are held. Looms—some of them loaned——
have been placed in the attic, and courses in weav-
ing are given.

The American Legion Field is a lasting monu-
ment to a local American Legion Post.

The Civitan brass band, which played at the
playgrounds last summer, found community sing—
ing popular. It has become a regular feature at
the playgrounds, is on the program every evening
at the Recreation Center.

The Nomads Club, which meets Tuesday nights,
is composed of young newcomers to the city. They
dance, play games, enjoy community singing.
Each week newcomers join the club. Most of the
members are workers in industrial plants. Five
University of Michigan graduates held an unex—
pected reunion at the club recently.

This Charleston, West Virginia, report toward
the end, after recounting many vital and interest-
ing features of the local program, states: “Worth
recalling here is part of ‘The Legend of the Ship’
—the ship did not bring back
all the treasures of the East
in one trip. Many trips were
required. It is the purpose
of this booklet to show that
much is needed to make a
recreation program complete
in Charleston.”

Richmond Takes the Army

see that Richmond postmark
on the envelope? I couldn’t wait
until I was back in camp to let you know what a
wonderful time I had on my first week-end pass.
It would have been just perfect, Mom, if you and

Dad were along.
I met a fellow on the bus coming over who

“knew the ropes” in Richmond. He advised me ,

to go to the Richmond Defense Service Unit’s ac—
tivities if I could. And am I glad I followed his
advice! First of all we went to Gray’s Armory to
reserve a bed for the night. We had a comfortable
cot, showers, free towel, soap, shaving equipment,
reading and writing rooms, and a checking service
—all for 35 cents.

Then we set out in search of entertainment. I
nearly fell out when Bill stopped and bought a
newspaper. But it didn’t take me long to find out
why he did, because there on the Servicemen’s
Page was printed a “Calendar for Servicemen.”
It listed all the activities for the week for men in
uniform, and it’s done according to entertainment,
dances, accommodations, etc.

We decided to go to one of the church centers
listed in the column. Bill knew one of the hostesses
at St. Paul’s Episcopal Center, so we went there.
We played ping-pong, darts, Chinese checkers, and
generally had a good time. Bill hadn’t warned me,
so you can imagine my surprise when waiters came
in about a quarter past six and started serving
supper. I reached for my wallet, but it was all
free!

After supper I got into a fast game of ping-pong
with one of the hostesses. They’re swell girls and
can really take it. Our second game ended just as
Bill came up and said that it was time to go. I
Bill wanted to see a play. So I said goodbye to
thought we were settled there for the night, but
Mary, and promised to come again.

The play was free, too, and was only one block
up the street on the corner. We saw Ten Nights
in a Barroom. One of Bill’s friends from Fort
Eustis had written about it, so Bill was quite
anxious to see it. When we got to the Lyric, Mom,
we just walked in and took a seat near the front.
There were some girls there, too, to welcome us

438

By GERTRUDE FLIPPEN

Defense Service Unit
RichmondI Virginia

and give out programs. It was a
swell show, all about the gay
nineties. We hissed the villain and
applauded the hero. And you
should have seen the singer in the barroom scene—
wow!

The show was over about ten o’clock, and we
took a street car to some big place called the
Mosque. I wondered what would be going on here,
but as soon as we stepped inside and I heard the
orchestra, I knew it was a dance. My knees
started shaking right then, because, you‘ know,
Mom, I never could dance very well. But Bill
pushed me down the stairs into the ballroom. Then
he saw somebody he knew, so he dashed off and
left me.

It sure was good music, so I decided to listen a
while. But did I get fooled! I hadn’t been there
three seconds, before one of the hostesses came up
and asked if I’d like to meet some girls. I started
to say yes right off, but then I realized that I’d
have to dance with them. So I told her I couldn’t
dance very well. She said, “That’s all right, I
won’t get you a jitterbug.” I was stuck then, so I
went with her. She introduced me to a little girl
who reminded me so much of Sis that I got a lump
in my throat. We danced and talked for a long
time. I asked her if I could see her home, but
she said that one of the rules of these Richmond
Defense Service Unit dances is that the girls have
to go home with their chaperons. So I got her
address and phone number and I’m going to call
her next week. The dance ended just before mid?“
night, and then Bill and I headed back to the
Armory.

I’d hardly gone to sleep when I felt someone
shaking me. It was Bill and he was shouting that
it was time to get up. I was surprised to find that
it was half—past nine, but I got up because I
wanted to go to church. (Can you imagine me
changing that much? The Army really does
strange things to a fellow.)

After church, Bill suggested going to the Knights
of Columbus Hall for dinner. We had fried

. chicken, salad, bread, coffee, and pie for dessert.

Imagine serving such a meal as that free every
Sunday! That’s what these Richmonders do, and
the place is really crowded.

RECREATION

RICHMOND TAKES THE ARMY 439

Bill had a date for the afternoon so I decided to
go sightseeing. I looked at that newspaper Column
again and saw that there was a place in the Capi-
tol Building giving out information about Rich-
mond. That was right down the street from the
K. of C. Hall.

I met up with a bunch of Richmond Air Base
men there and we all decided to visit some muse—
ums. Among others we went tO the White House
of the Confederacy where the president of the Con-
federate States lived during the Civil War. Some
lady explained everything to us and it was real
interesting.

I left the fellows about five O’clock because I
just had tO tell you what a grand time I’ve had.
I’m writing from St. Paul’s center. The woman
in charge tOld me that Mary wouldn’t be in today,
so I was sort of disappointed. But it is good to sit
in a nice soft chair and think about home. Supper
will be served here tonight, too, so I think I’ll
stay until they close. Don’t know what I’ll do
from 7:00 P. M. until train time. I may drop by
the Council Neighborhood House where they’re
having Open house until 9 :30. That will leave me
just time enough to get back to the station.

I t ’ s b e e n o n e
swell week end,
Mom. You and Dad
won’t have to worry
about me being
lonesome in the fu-
ture, because I’ve
sure found out
where tO meet peo-
ple and have fun.
We can come to
Richmond real often
now, so I’ll be back
. again. And I’ll be
on the watch for
places to take you
and Dad when you
come to visit me. I
just learned that all
these things are pro-
vided by the City
of Richmond for all
servicemen. It sure
is a grand program.

Goodbye now.

Your loving son,
JOHNNY.

NOVEMBER 1943

 

Courtesy Richmond, Virginia, Division of Recreation

P. S. Bill says that next time I come, I should
get a room in a private home. That’s another
good way tO meet people. These rooms are on file
at the OCD Information Centers in the lobbies Of
the main hotels. But I liked Gray’s Armory a lot.

P. S. Again. Did I tell you about the places
where women will sew on buttons for you and
press or mend your clothes. All the comforts of
home!

One Of Richmond’s outstanding department
stores has printed small pocket-size folders sug-
gesting to servicemen and women, “Make the Most
of Your Time in Richmond.”

The folder includes a detailed list of activities
and accommodations for men and women, with
each activity listed by place and date. A small map
of the city locates by street and block all of the
places listed in the folder. This simplifies the prob-
lem of finding clubs and centers in a strange city.

The activities and services are listed by sub-
ject matter: dances, social centers, church centers,
officer’s programs, swimming, information center,
and accommodations. Under each of these main
headings are listed specific times, dates and places.

Dances are held Mondays through Saturdays at
the Parking Lot Can—-
teen, and on Satur-
day evenings at the
Mosque Service
Unit, Y.M.C.A. ,the
Jewish Social Cen-
ter, and the Knights
of Columbus Hall.

Social centers
which are open to
servicemen include

theUSO,Y.M.C.A.,
Marine Club, Navy
Mothers’ Club, and

Navy League Club.
The USO, Y. M.

C.A., and Jewish
Social Center are
Open on Sundays.

Accommodations
for the men are

available at the

Y.M.C.A., N av y
Mother’s Club,
Navy League Club,
Gray’s Armory, and
private homes.

What They Say About Recreation

ll VERY HOUR that public school buildings are
E locked and the playgrounds and Dal-Hi
Stadium are empty, Dallas is missing a
$16,842,521 prepaid opportunity to stop today’s
teen-age offenses and prevent the growing threat
of tomorrow.”—Lois Sager in Preventing War-
time Delinquency.

“So, then, to every man his chance—t0 every
man, regardless of his birth, his shining, golden
opportunity—to every man the right to live, to
work, to be himself, and become whatever thing
his manhood and his vision can combine to make
him—this, seeker, is the promise of America.”—

Thomas Wolfe.

“The need for human contacts and for a satisfy-
ing relation with others is accentuated rather than
diminished by the strains of war, but is one of the
chief needs of young people as well as adults in war
or peace.”—David Cushman Coyle.

“One of the best ways of preserving the morale
of civilian population under war strain is by keep-
ing at full blast all the social services which can

help to preserve fitness of body and calmness of
mind.”—1Walcolm MacDonald.

“We cannot overestimate the value of music to
morale. Community singing sets people’s spirits
free. It can give man a sense of common destiny.
It can inspire them to give themselves wholeheart-
edly to a great cause.” — Congressman Harold
Hagen.

“In the process of unifying our national strength,
each integral part of the American war machine, at
home and abroad, must be kept healthy, firm and
alive. The spiritual and cultural Spheres are in-
tegral parts of the American war machine.”—-From
Musical America.

“Children must be imbued with a sense of
loyalty to a secure home for strength to face an in-
secure world. Boys and girls must be made to feel
that they are wanted and that they belong to an
intimate family circle. Toward this end parents
must take time to do things together, to work and
play and talk over individual and common prob-
lems.”—Millard 1. Heath in Preventing Wartime
Delinquency.

440

I “America is fighting for a better life after the
war. But what kind of life will it be if the forgot-
ten youngsters, coming to manhood and woman-
hood, are morally maimed-?”—J. Edgar Hoover.

“Dark days may be at hand, but no man or
nation can lose whose ramparts of the spirit are
unbreached.”—-—-Hanson Baldwin in The New York

Times.

“Where the employment of juveniles is neces-
sary or advisable, it should be employment plus
the emphasis on spiritual values, plus adequately
supervised healthful and funful recreation.”—Fr0m
Recreation Commission, Long Beach, California.

“Nature is one of the greatest builders of morale.
It accords with everything deep and elemental in
self. Thousands of years have served to adapt men
to nature experiences ; modern life, and particularly
war times, tends to decrease these contacts. To re-
turn to them is like undergoing a course of rejuve—
nation.”—From Education in Wartime and After:

“The nation that can sing and malge a joyful
noise before the Lord has the spirit of victory in

its heart.”—l'Villiam Allen W hite.

“People need to forget their worries and appre-
hensions in wholesome recreational activities. Rec-
reation means restoration, rejuvenation, regenera-
tion and relaxation. These, in turn, mean morale.”
—From Education in V/artime and After.

“The health and physical education program of
the schools has been extended greatly because of
wartime demands. The postwar program of health
and physical education will stress open spaces,
fresh air, sunlight, and recreational areas - not
limited to the few but made available to all.”—
N. L. Engelhardt in The American School and
University.

“When communities and nations realize the im—
portance of recreation, sport, general culture and
music, there will begin a great era in the evolution
of man, with equal opportunity for well-being for
everyone.”—-Leopold S toko'wslei.

RECREATION

The
Ladies

In
Blue
San Diego's Naval Training
Station boasts a corps of
Receptionists whose iob is

to make life pleasant for
the men and their guests

N THE GLOOMY Monday morning after Pearl

Harbor, three young women reported for

duty at Camp Lawrence, then the south end
of the Naval Training Station at San Diego, Cali—
fornia. This comely contingent was only the be-
ginning of the “invasion” of ladies in blue, and
today there are twenty-three Receptionists at the
Naval Station—all attired in natty, Navy blue uni—
forms—each serving in the combined capacity of
mother, sister, and girl friend to thousands of
men in training.

The jobs of a Receptionist are many and varied.
These twenty—three women have charge of all the
writing and recreation rooms and every day they
help recruits write difficult letters or telegrams.
They select reading matter for sailors—from tech—
nical books for the ambitious to picture magazines
for- art lovers. For indoor sportsmen they have
games ranging from checkers to ping—pong, and
for musicians they provide everything from violins
to player pianos.

Receptionists are mainly on hand to greet peo-
ple. On a busy Sunday they will welcome as many
as 2,000 visitors at Gate I and some 700 more at
Gate 6, and all these visitors have but one thing in
mind—to see their son, hus—
band, or father at once.
Through long training the
Receptionist is usually able to
locate that one important man
among thousands in almost

NOVEMBER 1943

One sailor told Receptionist Mary Hays.
"My girl's coming out from Arizona. I
got a forty-eight hour leave. I wanna
get married." Mrs. Hays took it ftom

there. and now they're happily married.

 

no time at all and get him to his visitors.

The work of the Receptionists is under the Wel-
fare and Recreation Division of the San Diego
Naval Training Station. Ordinarily their help to
the sailors would stop at their official jobs at the
Station itself, but Senior Receptionist Mrs. Lois
Jones and her associates have voluntarily added
other tasks that only a woman can do. They
select presents for the folks at home, send flowers,
meet trains, make important phone calls, and per—
form numerous other thoughtful services.

Through their understanding of bluejacket
problems, the Receptionists have succeeded in
helping to ease the recruit’s transition from civilian
to Navy life. Part of the reason for this is the
fact that ten of them are Navy wives, three are
Admiral’s daughters, and all of them know and
love the Navy.

W'hat the 30,000 sailors at the Naval Training
Station think of the work these twenty-three Re-
ceptionists are doing is clearly shown by their many
evidences of deep appreciation and grateful letters
which pour in daily to the welfare officer at the
Training Station.

In a recent editorial, The Hoist, newspaper

of the Training Station,
called these women “one of

the smallest, busiest civilian
service units on the entire

home front.”

4-41

HE GAME I am now
going to describe is
known by the Chinese
as Picking Stones. This
game is usually played in-
doors on the iioor. There is
no fixed time for playing it.
Boys and girls can play it

Chinese Games

When Erna Bunke Carson. who at one time
was a member of the staff of the National
Recreation Association, was living in
China. she did some teaching at the Uni-
versity of Shanghai. At her request,
some of the students at the University
wrote out the directions for a number of
old Chinese games. They are presented
here just as the students described them.

has regained the seven
stones, after which the game
will come to the end.

Shoot Wu

Shoot Wu is an old Chin-
ese game which no longer

exists because it is out of

any day and at any season

of the year, but as a matter

of fact, more girls between

the age of six and fifteen play it than boys of the
same age.

There is no need of preparation in this game at
all, and the materials consist only of seven fine and
smooth pebbles or stones. Two or three persons
can participate in the game and any one can begin
first. The aim in the game is to see who gets to
the fixed number of points first and then he will
be declared the winner.

The game begins when a person rolls the seven
stones on the floor. First he picks up one stone
and throws it up in the air and at the same time
picks up another and catches both in the hand
without letting either one drop to the ground.
Next he throws up another stone and picks up two
and then lastly doing the same, he picks up three
at a time from the ground but he must be sure not
to let any one drop or slip to the ground. If he
does, he is considered out and the second person
continues with the game.

But if he succeeds in picking up all the seven he
then goes a step further. He puts the seven stones
on his palm, throws them up and lets them fall on
the back of his palm-some of course may drop to
the ground, but whatever remains he must throw
up and catch on his palm. Whatever is caught will
be counted as points to his credit and he can con-
tinue doing it until he is out. If the person is good
at catching, it will not take him long to finish the
game. There is a certain amount of skill required,
but not very much, and there is the pleasure
derived from punishing the loser.

The loser has to put his palm vertically on one

of the pebbles with his second linger touching it.
The winner then will spank him as hard as he can.

The loser on his part must try to evade, and if the
winner misses, the former will collect the stone
and keep it. This process goes on until the loser

442

date or perhaps people are
tired of it.

It is an outdoor game
which was often played in the garden. When spring
came people liked to go to the garden and take this
instrument with them. This Wu was made of
copper, shaped like a vase. The height of the Wu
was about three feet and the width of its Opening
about ten inches. The arrows for the game were
made of wood or iron.

Each player held one arrow in his hand and
stood away from the Wu at a suitable distance.
The players threw their arrows one after the other,
and the one who could throw his arrow into the
Wu was the winner.

Chu-Me-Chon

This is an outdoor game and is called Chu-Me-
Chon in China. For your understanding I shall
give it a new name, Blind Cat and Naughty Mice.
Children under fifteen years of age like to play this
game. Generally, the players should not exceed
fifteen persons. The children gather together and
elect one for Cat from among themselves. The rest
are the Mice. The selection is sometimes by lot
and sometimes by vote. The Cat’s eyes are con-
cealed with a piece of cloth or handkerchief. He
stands in the middle and the others gather around
him. Then a Mouse comes out to turn the Cat
round and round until he is ready to faint. The
Mice scatter themselves within a given field. They
may keep silent or make noises. However, the
Mice will give some notice in order that the Cat
may know where a Mouse is. The Cat then dashes
to catch the Mouse who runs away for safety. If
he is caught, he will take his turn at being the Cat.

There are some rules: The Cat is not allowed
to steal a look. The Mice should not run out of
the field which the players marked out. A Mouse
that is caught should not escape by force. No
Mouse is allowed to help the Cat to catch other‘Mice.

RECREATION

l

CHINESE GAMES 443

Children find very great
pleasure in playing this game.
The eagerness and hastiness
of the Cat, the naughtiness
and the danger of the Mice
and the skillful movements
among them all make one
laugh and feel happy.

Feeding a Pig

At the Chinese New Year, children like to play
this game. It does not require much in the way of
materials, only a bowl and six pieces of dice are
necessary. Usually, six or seven children play the
game.

As the game starts, each child must supply him-
self or herself with a certain quantity of candies.
The bowl is put in the middle of a table and in that
bowl six pieces of dice are put. Every one has to
contribute two or more pieces of candy to the
common fund.

This game requires no consideration of the spots
on the faces of the dice but their colors are im-
portant. Everyone must, one after, another, follow
the order to throw the dice. He loses his chance
who throws the dice out of the bowl. If there is
one red among the dice after one throw, the
thrower has the privilege of taking a piece of candy
from the public. He takes as much candy as pos—
sible according to the '
number of red dice after
his throw. On the con—
trary, if a white comes,
the thrower is required to
contribute a piece of
candy to the public and
so on. The thrower will take
nothing after his throw if the
number of red dice is equal to
that of the white dice. It is lucky
to a child if the six dice become
all black after his throw for he
can take all the candies which
they have contributed at the be-
ginning.

r.

.1 .

w 

  

‘p

Boys from the Chinese Playground in
San Francisco exhibit the amazingly
intricate kites with which they won
most of this year's tournament awards

NOVEMBER 1943

"On a beautiful day in Spring when the
sky is clear and blue. the world looks
green. the grass on the lawn is pretty.
and the willows are fresh and green. to
fly kites gives us much pleasure. In
one word. both the weather and the
game will refresh and invigorate us."

Very often it happens that
no one takes the candies from
the common fund but always
gives out candies for they get
white dice in their throw.
Under such a condition, the
number of candies contrib-
uted increases to a great
amount. Thus it is said that the “pig” is fed sat-
isfactorily and becomes strong and fat. Sometimes
the “pig” becomes slender as the candies are taken
away. This gives the name to the game.

This game contains a superstitious idea when it
is played in the country. Since it is played at the
New Year, anyone who gets a fat “pig” will have
pigs that will become strong and fat and a good
crop will come to his family during the year.

A Kite Game

The Chinese people are the world’s.kite experts.
Various forms of whistling kites, box kites, and
butterfiy kites are common to the Far East. I
shall give hints for making butterfly kites. The
frame of the butterfly is made of two sticks of reed
which must be of equal length and weight. Bend
each stick into an arc. Then they are crossed and
tied. The upper ends are drawn into shape by
tying them some distance back of the lower ends.

   
    

_ is

  

Courtesy San Francisco Rearearion Commission

444 CHINESE GAMES

At the lower end, strings are attached some dis—
tance back of the upper ends. Bind the intersec-
tions and the frame is complete, stringing and all.

Now make the covering of the tissue and treat
the tissue with banana oil. If the butterfly design
is painted on with the colored bronze gilt, this will
make an extremely gorgeous kite. The antennae
of the butterfly may be made by attaching very
thin wires to which have been glued little tufts of
frayed-out colored wool yarn. The bridle for this
kite is attached in the same manner as on the com—
mon hexagonal kite. The tail is strung by a loop
between ends of the arc.

There are no definite rules to be followed in the
games. However, skill is required in making and
flying the kite. Any boy who has had experience
before can have a good time working out designs
for different kinds of ingen-
ious kites that will perform
aloft when they are released.

Sugar Cane

, I shall tell you a game
which has been played from
time immemorial but has
become popular among our.
fellow countrymen only since
the establishment of the
Chinese Republic. The game
is historical rather than in-
teresting, because one of the
experts in this game now
occupies an important place in our modern Chinese
history. The expert is no other person than Dr.
Sun Yat Sen, the founder of the Chinese Republic.

When Dr. Sun was preaching his principles to
his fellow countrymen, he used to go to villages
where he could get in touch with the farmers.
Usually, after a long speech, he received some
sugar cane from the farmers. He always divided
it among his comrades or followers, and once he
thought of a game to play.

After cutting around the sugar cane as deep as
one tenth of an inch, two men hold each end of
the sugar cane. They say: “Ready, one, two,
three, and break it.” He who holds the end pro-
jected wins. He can have the longer or sweeter
one, as the sugar cane is always cut in unequal
length or sweetness. In case of more than two
persons, it is the length of the fibre that counts.
He who holds the longest fibre wins, and every
one is given the right to choose what he wants in
order. It is interesting to note that Dr. Sun

"Of all the Chinese games, the one I love
the best is chess. Other games have been
spoiled in use as tools for professional
gambling. But the art of playing chess re-
mains in its uprightness and superiority be-
cause ot its immense requirement of intelli-
gence in scheming as well as its inestimable
varieties of intricate movements. A”game
is a gameI but I appreciate it in addition
because it teaches loyalty and courage,
while others base everything on idiotic
chances. It represents the spirit which has
tied up this nation in her political union
and solidarity for thousands of years."

usually got the end projected or the one having
the longest end! Obviously, it is not a question of
one’s strength but of skill, experience, keen obser-
vation and measurement; or it may be due to luck.

Nowadays, we can see farmers sitting together,
eating sugar cane, and laughing frequently; they
have been playing this game. It is generally
played in South China from winter to spring
where and when sugar cane is at its best.

Chinese Chess

Chess is usually claimed and considered as the
model game of the literati, as it has been played by
emperors, ministers, heroes, wise sages, and bril-
liant—minded scholars all through the ages.

The two chess players resemble two strong
powers engaged in a serious battle. Each side pos—
sesses sixteen pieces consist-
ing of a king, two guards,
two ministers, two horses,
two chariots, two guns, and
five troops. The king and
the guards are supposed to
move within a designated
small circle, the capital. The
ministers can turn around
on all sides of the country
within its boundary. The
horses can move in eight
directions, crushing every—
thing which falls into their
foot holes. The chariots dash
back and forth on straight lines like tanks and can
knock off anything in their way. The guns also
move on straight lines and they can destroy any-
thing across one chess. The troops are supposed
to march straight forward step by step without
turning back.

Besides, the art of chess playing shows too the
idea of life in China in its natural beauty and
supreme simplicity. I remember how, during those
hot summers, when cool evenings drew near, we
used to spread our tiny table under a tree and play
our favorite game. A cup of tea and a handful of
nuts were laid at the side. The slow moon climbed
up and shone above the whole universe like an
everlasting lantern. The stars gleamed like twin-

kling eyes in the sky. We were free from all sorts
of secular noises.

There were no nervous distractions of strum-

ming guitars, nor those wild disturbances of brass
hands. They are only artificial imitations of the
infinite magnificence of great nature in their naive

RECREATION

CHINESE GAMES 445

charms. \Ne sat there quietly, pouring our whole
hearts out on that sheet of paper. We talked at
intervals and exchanged our high ideals and view-
points. The rustling breezes had stealthin carried
away the heat from our tired bodies. “'e felt very
cool now. Time was entirely forgotten. we played
on till we had had enough.

The Gantse

We are, perhaps, not very keen about games.
We have not invented any game like tennis or golf
that is played all over the world. Nevertheless,
our fathers de-
veloped and hand-
ed down to us our
own form of box-
ing, fencing, wres-
tling, and lots of
interesting games
which would take
_volumes of books
to describe. What
I am about to tell
here may not be
about the most in-
teresting of our
games but it is
v e r y p o p 11 la r
among us. It was
added to the com-
petitive games in
o u r N a t i o n a 1
Olympic Games a
few years ago.

The game is
called Gantse and
it’s somewhat’like
badminton shuttle-
.cock. It is very simple and is generally homemade.
All you need is a small piece of cloth, a coin with
a hole at the center, some feathers and a small tube
two or three mm. in diameter. The coin is sewed
up with the cloth while the tube is sewed to the
cloth through the center of the coin. The feathers
are then placed in the tube and it is ready to play
With. It may be played either with the side of a
foot or a paper board of about 8 inches by 4 inches
in the hand. There is no fixed rule for the game.
One way to play is to kick it up in the air. The
one who registers the most kicks wins.

However, the most interesting way to play it is
by setting forms or styles. One player is to set out
a form which he best masters. The other player is

NOVEMBER 1943

supposed to imitate what the former does. If he
fails, he loses. The player may kick the Gantse up
in the air, receive it with his forehead; throw it
down and rest it on the side of his foot. He may
throw the Gantse in the air, then kneel down
quickly and strike it up with board in his hand
over his hip.

As to its history, the game probably originated
in North China where the climate is very cold.
Surely, it is a nice way to keep warm, jumping
around to play the Gantse. It is suitable for in-
doors and outdoors. It provides interest for the

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

Two modern young ladies from San Francisco
demonstrate China's ancient art of shadow plays

strong and is not too rough for the weak. With
some improvements, it might develop into a very
scientific game.

Tossing the Shuttlecock

We Chinese call this game T’eih Keen Tsze. If
you want to name it in English, you just call it
Tossing the Shuttlecock.

The equipment is made of two parts which are
put together in one. The lower part needs more
handwork. The materials will be as follows: Four _

446 CHINESE GAMES

feathers of bright beautiful colors, a piece of quill
about one inch long, an old Chinese copper coin
with a hole in the middle, a piece of cloth. The
first thing to start with is to sew the piece of quill
vertically at the middle of the covered coin. The
last step will be to put the feathers in the socket.

The game is often played in the winter and the
Spring season. Since the temperature of those sea-
sons is not warm enough, we are always thinking
of some way to warm up our blood. It is better to
play it outdoors where the sunlight is shining and
we have fresh air around us, and where more space
is provided. This game is fit for all ages, and both
sexes, but children like it most.

The ways of playing this game will be better
explained with the help of pictures. In the begin-
ning, we kick the shuttlecock with the side of the
heel and kick it again when it falls. It is really a

good exercise of the legs. If you want to play this ‘

game among several pe0ple, there are defi-
nite rules to regulate the players. First
you may decide among yourselves the
number of kicks each one is allowed with-
out the falling of the shuttlecock to the
ground and without the putting down of
the foot on the ground: If anyone fulfills
the rule and finishes the number first, he
will be the number one player of the
group. Then the one who finishes the number sec—
ond will be the number two, and so on. There are
some other ways to kick the shuttlecock. You may
kick it with the top of the foot, or. kick it back-
ward while jumping, or kick it upward and let it
fall on your forehead and then throw it and receive
it on the top surface of the foot again. So you
may select any one of the above ways to finish the
number and decide the Number One player among
yourselves.

Practice and skill are required. The player is
advised not to wear a long gown. The eyes must be
watchful and the legs must be flexible. You better

not play it just after a meal; it might unfortunately
give you appendicitis!

Chinese Fan Tan

Chinese Fan Tan is known to be one of the
banking games in China. It is played both indoors
and outdoors by boys and girls of all ages except
when they are too young.

This kind of game is apparently the fairest of all
banking games, there being absolutely no percent-

age in favor of the banker except that the players
have to do the guessing.

 

The one who is willing to put up the largest
amount of "money" to be played for is usually
selected as the banker. He is provided with a large
bowlful of beans, counters, buttons, or some objects
of which a large number of similar size and shape
can be easily obtained. An oblong card is placed in
the center of a table and the players stake their
“money” upon its corners or upon its edges. Th‘ese
corners are supposed to be numbered in rotation
from I to 4, the figure I being on the right of the
banker. '

A bet placed on any of the corners takes in the
number it is placed upon and the next higher also,
so that a bet upon the corner I would be upon the
numbers I and 2; upon 2 it .would be upon 2 and
3; and upon 4 it would be upon 4 and I.

In the illustration the bet 3 2 'x
would be upon 2 and 3.

4 1

If the bet is placed upon the edge of the

card, it takes in the next higher number
only. ’ '

In the illustration the bet is upon the number 2,
and no other.

After all the bets have been placed, the banker
takes a large handful of beans or counters from the
bowl, and places them on the table, counting them
off rapidly into fours. The number of odd counters
remaining decides which number wins; if none re-
main, 4 wins. If there were 2 or 3 counters over,
the banker would pay all bets on the corners I and
2, even money. If there were 2 over, he would pay
all bets on the edge of the card between I and 2
and the rate of 3 for I, and so on. The counters
are then returned to the bowl, and bets are placed
for another coup.

Sometimes the banker will draw a handful of
beans from the bowl and place them upon the
table, covering them with a saucer or with his hat.
He then bets any player that there will be I, 2, 3,
or 4 left,- the player takes his choice, and is paid
three for one if he guesses correctly.

EDITOR’S NOTE: The student who wrote this
game concluded his description with this comment:
“I have never seen any foreigner who could win
anything at it when a Chinese was banker!”

RECREATION

 

,Ocean City Adopts Shuifleboard

By GEORGE K. GARDINER
Director of Recreation

round attraction at Ocean
City, New Jersey,
where the courts are
sure to be crowded
whether it’s winter, -
Slimmer, or fall. In less
than four years of mu-
nicipal recreation at this
Jersey seashore resort,
the Shuffleboard Club
has grown to a mem-
bership of 200 men and
women ranging in age
from eighteen to eighty-
six.
The club not only af-
fords keen game compe—
tition but sponsors reg-
ularly scheduled social
events during summer
months. Refreshments
are served, entertain-
ment and games pro-
vided by the members,
new friendships are
quickly made —and it
all started through the
fifteen top-notch cement
Shuffleboard courts.
The organization of
the Shuffleboard Club is
very simple. Governed
by a brief set of by-
laws, the Club has a president, vice-president, a
treasurer, and a secretary. No special introduc-
tion to join the Club is necessary. The Only mem~
bership requii'ement is an affirmative answer to
the question, “Do you like to play Shuffleboard P”
Membership fee is one dollar a year but none
of this goes for upkeep. The money is used
mainly to provide some capital for the social events
and the prizes presented at the weekly progressive
tournaments, a few cups for the individual and
team championships held once a year at the close
of the summer, and the midwinter tourney which
is held whenever the weather permits during Jan-
uary to March. Each member is also given the

SHUFFLEBOARD is an all year

L

NOVEMBER 1943

 

use of a bamboo cue which is
furnished by the Recreation

Center.
The Shuffleboard

Club has been highly
successful in publicizing
Ocean City’s Recreation
Center and its facilities
throughout the eastern
states. Local club mem-
bers are well represent-
ed in three Florida re—
sorts during the winter
where, in one place, a
day each season is set
aside as Ocean City
Day.

The courts have
always been very popu-
lar at night under a
special Eoodlighting sys-
tem installed at the Cen-
ter but because of strin—
gent dimout regulations
along the Atlantic Coast,
night play has been dis-
continued for the dura-
tion.

W i n t e r Shuffleboard

was an innovation last
year and the outlook is
very promising again
this year since an aver—
age of fifteen to twenty
days each month were playable days last winter.
At least half of the courts will be kept open
throughout 1944 to take care of increased winter
participation.

Through the game of shuflleboard the Recrea-
tion Center of Ocean City has found a standard
article of stock for its recreation store and the
customers are more than pleased with the offering.
The sport provides both an opportunity for all year
round play and a healthy leisure-time outlet for
people of all ages. This game is the best self-
operating unit on the Center’s program and has
opened the way to further developments along the
recreation front in Ocean City.

’447

 Dream Comes True—The Story of an Advent

WHAT RECREATION WORKER has not dreamed

of having a budget large enough to give the

people of his community an opportunity to
take part in a recreational arts program which would
effectively challenge their talents and abilities?

This dream came true in Baltimore when, in
the fall of 1942, the Department of Public Recrea-
tion received a special grant for the purpose of de-
veloping a recreational arts program. The Balti-
more Department of Public Recreation, as far as
we know, is the first organization of its kind to
receive such a grant, and it would not have been
possible without the interest and work of a public-
spirited citizen. The citizen in this instance was
Robert Garrett, Chairman of the Mayor’s Com-
mittee on Art Education, Chairman of the Board
of Public Recreation of Baltimore, and also Chair-
man of the Board of the National Recreation As-
sociation. His enthusiasm and interest in securing
this opportunity for his fellow citizens were so
keen that the Carnegie Corporation of New York
City decided to allot $10,000 for use from October
1942 to October 1943 for the advancement of cul—
tural arts such as music, drama, the dance, and arts
and crafts within a public recreation system.

There were, of course, the difficulties caused by
war conditions. Would people accustomed to
travel by private cars take part in the program if
they had to travel long distances on
trolleys or busses? Time would tell!

Laying the Groundwork

Finding Leaders. After the announce-
ment of the good news had been made
to the staff, the director of the Depart-
ment called together the program di-
rectors who were to do the preparatory
work. First, we had to secure com-
petent instructors, and it was a matter
of great satisfaction to the Department
to find that a number of outstanding
teachers in the arts were glad to share
in the experiment of using the recrea-
tional approach in teaching the arts.
With their experience in serving the
public for years, these instructors knew
immediately what communities would
be most likely to respond to the pro-
gram and were helpful in selecting the

448

As Told by H. S. CALLOWHILL

Director' Department of Public Recreation
of Baltimore' Maryland

To RUTH GARBER AEHLERS

best locations for the development of their specific
subjects.

It was decided to house the chorus, orchestra,
Little Theater, and arts and crafts grOUps in the
community centers conducted by the Department,
but because of the large floor space needed, two
high school gymnasiums were chosen for the danc-
ing classes. The colored program was also carried
on in school buildings.

Publicity. Early in the spring of 1942, meetings
of community center directors were called and
plans were organized to cover all communities.
Questionnaires were typed, and as recreation lead-
ers made their contacts with people they recorded
information about special recreational interests and .
abilities. Those who responded were put on the
Carnegie program mailing lists. Newspaper pub-
licity brought many inquiries and participants.
Personal contacts by instructors
and Recreation Department super-
visors were most important and

 

RECREATION

Dance. music. and
interpret Johann 5
land beauty in "Tal

in Recreational Arts

With a Carnegie Corporal-ion grant of
$|0,000 plus dynamic planning and
skilled leadership. Baltimore's Depart--

ment of Public Recreation developed an

intensive program of recreational arts
which has laid the foundation for
expanding arts activities in the future.

 

effective in securing a strong nucleus. After
months of preparation the workers were rewarded

by the enthusiasm of groups called together in
October to begin work.

The Participants

Housewives, businessmen, career girls, war
workers, Red Cross workers, semiprofessionals,
ex-professionals, and war brides participated in
the program. Special emphasis was placed on re—
cruiting those who had sung in musical organiza-
tions years ago or had played a musical instrument
in an orchestra. For the dancing, crafts, and dra-
matics no experience was necessary. Each class
was actually a community group either learning
new skills or reviewing those which they had once
enjoyed but had given up because
of work or home responsibilities.

groups combined to
Many people were newcomers to

.oncep’rion of wood-

|’rhe Vienna Woods"

 

l NOVEMBER 1943

Baltimore, uprooted from home town associations
and anxious to meet others who shared their
interests.

Gas rationing did interfere with the program to
a great extent, for people had not adjusted them-
selves to the ban on pleasure driving. Air raid
warden meetings, Red Cross and first aid classes,
as well as longer working hours, took their toll of
time and energy. Yet, in spite of wartime irregu-
larities, the program was a great success and a
sufficiently solid foundation had been laid in most
of the subjects to warrant their continuation if the
necessary money could be found.

The statistics (see page 450) were recorded
from October 1942 through May 1943.

The Program

Music. Members of the chorus were divided into
three groups meeting separately each week in dif-
ferent parts of the city. The groups, working with
the same director and studying the same music,
came together once a month ,for a combined re-
hearsal. During intermissions different members
were invited to entertain the group by singing
solos, duets, trios, or quartets. After the rehearsal
refreshments were served by the group acting as
hosts. The social side of the program gave people
an opportunity to become better acquainted and
made a delightful addition. The short recitals
provided an opportunity for young singers, as well
as more experienced ones, to sing in public.

The chorus made such good progress that it was
ready to make its hrst public appearance during
the Christmas holidays as the Carnegie—Depart—
ment of Public Recreation Chorus. The
concert given at the Peabody Concert
Hall was composed of excerpts from
“The Messiah,” hymns from different
forms of worship, and Christmas carols
of all nations. At Easter, nine hundred
people gathered on Sunday afternoon
to hear Gounod’s “Redemption.” Radio
broadcasts during the season helped to
‘keep up interest.

Orchestra. The orchestra, too, met
in three groups, with combined rehears-
als scheduled at intervals. The trans-
portation of large, heavy instruments
was a constant problem, and' it was dif—
ficult to find people who played the
variety of instruments needed to or-
ganize a complete orchestra. Through
persistent efforts, however, these difficul—
ties were overcome and much credit is
due to all who helped solve the problems.

449

450 A DREAM COMES TRUE

The first concert of the
orchestra at the Peabody
Concert Hall in January
was enthusiastically re- White
ceived. Subsequent in-
vitation concerts were
given at the Maryland
Casualty, Young Men’s
Hebrew Association,
and the Baltimore Mu- Colored
seum of Art. Each per-
formance showed mark-
ed improvement.
Drama. Three Little
Theater groups met in
different sections of the
city. Fundamental in-
struction was given in acting, for the classes were
made up almost entirely of beginners. Short skits
were emphasized to determine the strength and
ability of the individuals. These groups made their
first appearance in November in a program of short
skits at the annual Women’s Clubs harvest party.
During the seasOn they appeared at several com-
munity gatherings and at the USO center.

Dancing. The dancing classes, held in two sec-
tions of the city, were designed to give untrained
adults a background of dance appreciation, body
conditioning in preparation for the dance, basic
movements and the development of these move-
ments into simple dance patterns. The joy of
rhythmic group movement was stressed above rou-
tine drill. This phase of the dancing program was
particularly desirable since it had never been in-
cluded in the Department’s program.

Arts and Crafts. One of the pleasing features of
the craft program was the opportunity it afforded
interested individuals to study weaving and pot—
tery informally under skilled leadership. That this
opportunity was eagerly accepted is evidenced by
the fact that after nine months there was a waiting
list of 25 people anxious to enter one of the
pottery classes. '

Owing to the fact that special equipment was
necessary for these crafts, pottery was confined to
one center and weaving to another. The large
work tables in a community center kitchen were
used for the pottery work, and a kiln was pur-
chased and installed in an adjoining room. Floor
and table looms were placed in a room on the sec-
ond floor of a community center building for the
weaving classes. These classes were of special

Figurativer Speaking:
NUMBER OF PEOPLE SERVED

 59 l.766
 I40 2.8l4
 64 736
. . . . . 274 3.324
 45 l.278
 38 670

Orchestra —3 classes. . . .
Chorus —3 classes. . . .
Dramatics —3 classes. . . .
The dance—3 classes. . . .
Pottery —| class . . . . .

Weaving —l class . . . . .

Total . . . . . . . . . 620 l0.588

 78 895
 me 997

Orchestra — I class. . . . .
Chorus -—- I class. . . . .

 l84 |.892

Total enrollment . . . . . . . . . . .. 804
Total attendance . . . . . . . . . .. l2.480

Total. . . .

 

interest since the teach-
ing of weaving to groups
representing the gen—
eral public of a large
city was something of
an experiment.

With facilities permit-
ting only 14 people to
— weave on the floor and
at the table looms, the
instructors made small
hand frames for those
who were waiting to use
the larger looms. The
advanced students be-
came so interested that
_ they would frequently
come to the center between classes to work.

Enrollment Attendance

At the close of the season the pottery classes
displayed vases, lamp shades, ash trays, tiles,
bowls, and pottery jewelry. The weaving classes
produced pocketbooks, knitting bags, scarves, rugs,
luncheon sets, and dress materials.

Program for Colored Citizens. It was originally
planned to include a full program of dramatics,
handcraft and dancing, as well as choral and
orchestral music. The lack of facilities and leader-
ship, however, made it necessary to limit the pro-
gram to the organization of a chorus and orches—
tra. Members of the group represented a cross
section of community life—men and women, old
and young, engaged in various occupations. Their
efforts culminated in a combined concert given on
April 29, 1943, at the Frederick Douglass High
School with more than 1,000 people in attendance.

The Combined Demonstration

Two thousand invitations were sent to inter-
ested people in Baltimore and to community
leaders in other cities to attend the June 5th per—
formance in the new Eastern High School audi-
torium, which demonstrated the accomplishments
of eight months of work. Several combined re-
hearsals were necessary to work out the lighting,
color and sound effects, music and dramatic cues,
seating arrangements, and all the details which
made it a smooth, successful performance.

The following program was presented:

A class demonstration in the gymnasium of
basic educational dance techniques, including walk-

(Continued on page 469)

RECREATION

 

 

Official Information Bureau of Switzerland

I NOVEMBER 1943

 

 

Official Information Bureau of Switzerland

Horn USSGI’I

 

This quaint old Swiss sporl' combines features
of goliI cricket. tennis. and baseball. It
attracts huge crowds of spectators and is
especially popular with the Bernese peasants.

 

HEN THE FIELDS and Alpine pastures 1n
Switzerland have been shorn of their last
grass in early autumn the Hornussen or
Hornet players, with wheelbarrows piled high with
paraphernalia, appear on the scene. The name of
this game is derived from the “hornet,” a wooden
disc or puck which makes a buzzing sound as it
comes flying through the air.
At one end of the pitch or field the players erect
a wooden or iron tee about twelve to eighteen
inches high, with a guide rail gently sloping up to
it from the ground behind. (See picture at left.)
The held is now marked out—beginning a hun—
dred yards from the tee. There are two teams,
the strikers and the killers, each comprised of
twenty-two men and boys, one side batting, the
other helding.

(Continued on page 472)
451

Teaching Arts and Crafts in Mississippi

By CHARLES J. STOREY

 

How many si'udeni's would ge’r up af' 3:00 A.M.
and prepare breakfasf for fhe family and
field hands and fhen cook a midday dinner
in advance before cafching fhe school bus?
Or perhaps fake a furn in Jthe field on fhe
fracfor before school? Thai is whaf sev-
eral of our sfudenfs did every morning.

 

lation earn their living by their hands, yet hand-
crafts and the industrial arts have curiously
enough little place in education with the exception
of a few large colleges. Thus in the spring of 1943
the Department of Adult Education of Mississippi
State College determined to find out whether chil-
dren and adults in this agricultural state were in—
terested in handcrafts and the arts generally.
The medium was a series of workshops of five

IN MISSISSIPPI, a large pr0portion of the p0pu-

weeks college instruction brought to the communi- '

ties near the homes of the public school teachers
and staffed by a selected faculty from the State
College. Dr. J. R. Morton, Professor of Adult
Education who inaugurated this educational plan,
believed that if the College would go to the teach-
ers with a flexible program that it would not be
difficult to learn what teachers needed for the im-
provement of themselves and their teaching. The
workshop would give the teacher-pupil an oppor—
tunity to enlarge her education and to work out
teaching problems in a sympathetic and not too
formal atmosphere.

The student body was composed of public school
teachers and a few young high school graduates
ranging in age from eighteen to sixty years. Due
to the shortage of teachers many older women who
had stopped teaching were coming back into ser-
vice. Most of them would never have the Oppor-
tunity to go to college, but under this plan the
college was brought to them with faculty, library,
and regular college credits for creditable work.
Many needed the extra instruction badly but
whether they would see the value of handcrafts and
art in the curriculum was not known.

Northern Mississippi, where three of the work-

452

shops were conducted, is an agricultural plain set-
tled by small farmers whose principal crop is cot-

.ton. It is not a rich or prosperous section and

many of the women teachers are married and teach
to help out the family finances. Money is hard to
come by, and these!“ students were very much in
earnest. Many of them got up early in the morn-
ing to finish household tasks before coming to
school. They took care of the chickens and stock
after going home from school in the late afternoon. _
Hard earned money paid the tuition fee for their
five weeks of extra schooling.

On the registration days of the first workshOp,
which was held in a consolidated school house in
Wheeler, a few teachers inspected our samples of
handcraft, watched the artist sketching, and gradu-
ally made up their minds that they could afford
some of the precious study time for this new
course. At subsequent workshOps the fame of the
arts and crafts course spread and as its value in
teaching was better understood we had much larger
registration. As one of the purposes of the work-
shop was to try to solve practical teaching and ad—
ministrative problems, teachers began to see that
handcrafts would give some of the larger boys and
girls, who are hand—minded, an added interest in
school and help to keep them busy and instructed
at the same time.

Two teachers from an old school wanted to
know how to decorate their rooms. They had
managed to plant flowers and shrubbery around
the outside, but now they wanted to know about
color and arrangement of wall spaces. The art
teacher asked the entire class to work out the prob—
lem With colored elevations of the room walls
showing the pr0per placement of blackboards, pos-
ters, bulletin boards, and pictures.

Teachers of the lower grades wanted to acquire
a few such skills as modeling, blackboard drawing,
and basket making to give variety to their pro-
grams and for help in developing teaching proj-
ects. Without going into the rather remarkable
pedagogic scheme back of the workshop idea, one
can see that arts and handcrafts were not scheduled
in a hard and fast curriculum.

Rural school teachers are paid very little in the
South and few extras are allowed beyond the needs
of ordinary schooling. So the first requirement of
the handcraft pr0gram was that the materials

RECREATION

TEACHING ARTS AND CRAFTS 1N MISSISSIPPI 433

should be cheap or obtain-
able without cost from
local sources. Soap carving
is of no expense because
the chips can be saved for
mother and one can always
wash as well with a cake
of soap carved into a duck
or a bear as with plain un-
adorned soap. Clay model-
ing came next with good
clay from the neighbor-
hood. The teachers were
taught how to wash and
strain the clay for use. The
alluvial deposits in Mis-
sissippi make it easy to find
excellent modeling clay and
we used a light grey pre-
historic mud from a bank
by the road side. It had
small fossil shells which
were easily washed out.

Linoleum block cutting and printing is inexpen-
sive since scraps of linoleum can be obtained from
department stores, and the principle tool needed
is a sharp knife. One-edge razor blades work well
also. For 50 cents a whole cutting set may be
bought, but we used penknives. Students made
their own original designs and it is astonishing to
the uninitiated how most students can originate
designs without any drawing instruction whatever.
Learning by doing was the motto of the class.

For basketry, the students went into the fields
and brought in willow branches and honeysuckle
vines. Honeysuckle is better worked down here
when the vines are dead in the fall and winter. If
soaked in warm water, the bark can be easily rubbed
off. In the southern part of the state the long-leafed
pine needles make wonderful baskets. Another
handcraft material was papier-maché.

The students started with simple bowls and
trays. Newspaper is torn, not cut, into small frag-
ments about two inches square and soaked in water.
Then a layer is placed on the bottom of a bowl
turned upside down. The next layer is dipped into
ordinary flour paste a piece at a time and laid on
carefully. At least twelve or more layers are put
on, and when dry the papier-maché slips off the
bowl light and strong. This can be painted bright
colors with enamel paint. The soaked paper can
also be moulded like clay into animals and other
figures. we made masks of Washington and Lin-

NOVEMBER 1943

 

courtesy Department of Recreation, Passafc, N. J.

coln which were painted with water colors and
made realistic with hair and whiskers.

Other craft articles were tin can jewelry and
trays which can be elaborated with simple copper
work after the war with only a small expense for
tools. The large Navajo Indian loom made of two
broomsticks was popular. On this can be woven
rugs, blankets, and a variety of fabrics from cole
ored strips of rag. Also corn husk Indian dolls
which in this farming community would never
lack for free material.

Mrs. Storey, well trained in drawing and an ex-
perienced painter and illustrator, integrated her
teaching with the handcrafts course so that the
student benefited from studying both at the same
time. In an hour or two a day for five short weeks
the students were given the elements of perspec-
tive, design, color harmony, and methods of teach—
ing these to children. The motto of this class was
“anyone can draw.” Children have not taken on
the prejudices and inhibitions of adults and there—
fore draw spontaneously and often very well. SO
the first thing we tried to do with these older
pupils was to rid them of any preconceived notions
they may have had that they could not draw or
that it was a gift and not an accomplishment. The
results showed that this preliminary advice was
not wasted.

(Continued on page 468)

 

From Annual Report of Houston Department of Recreation

At civic meetings like this one in HoustonI Texas, the recreation director can gain a more thorough
knowledge of his community. This group is discussing community improvements and the park program.

Community Differences

0 TWO COMMUNITIES are
N alike. Geographical, social,

and economical factors con-
tribute to these differences. Thus,
no recreational director can outline a program
which will be successful in every community nor
can a director give a formula which will solve
every problem in every situation.

The director and his staff must make a critical
examination of the differences in the group which
they serve, whether it bea neighborhood group or
an entire community, and then adjust or develop
program, facilities, and leadership to best serve
the needs of these people. '

In one community a large percentage of the
population were semiskilled and skilled workers.
The recreation program there developed a higher
level of craft program than that in a second com-

454

By ROBERT J. BRENNAN
Madison Square Boys' Club

“New York City

munity where the bulk of the
population was employed as
common laborers. Another com-
munity which came under the
strong influence of a large university had a recrea-
tion program with a higher cultural level than that
in the industrial town. But only with a thorough
knowledge of the community can the director
adjust programs to serve the needs.

Some of the questions which a director will ask
about the group which he serves are: Where is the
majority of adults employed? Are they skilled,
semi-skilled, or common laborers? Is there a for-
eign group in the community and what influence
does. it have upon the need?

The director can best get this information by .
observing the pe0ple with whom he is associated,

‘ (Continued on page 470)
RECREATION

For the Record . . .

By FRANK W. BRAlviHALL

Former Direcl‘or of Recreation .

San Jose. California

 

San JoseI a city of 68,000 located in the heart
of the beautiful Santa Clara valley. is one
of the latest additions to the rapidly grow-
ing list of cities to recogniz'e the need for
a municipally operated recreation program

 

functioning in San Jose, which was already

noted for its servicemen’s recreation program.
But the history of the development of municipal
recreation in this California city shows a slow yet
continuous movement over a period of some twelve
to fifteen years with many public-spirited citizens
and organizations participating. In 1930 a recrea-
tion committee was appointed by the city council
to make a survey of the need for a program that
could be operated with already existing facilities.
The committee completed its study, but before any
action could be taken, the depression intervened
and the report was filed by the council to await
more favorable times.

IN DECEMBER 1942 a recreation department began

From 1930 to 1934 public recreation in San Jose
was practically nil except for that carried on under
the auspices of the San Jose Softball Association
and the Adult Education Department along with
unorganized group play on the San Jose school
playgrounds and in city parks.

In 1934 the city and the Board of Education co-
sponsored an SERA recreational project with the
assistance of the Federal government and this was
suceeded in 1935 by the program operated by the
Work Projects Administration. In March 1942
the WPA announced that it was discontinuing its
community efforts in favor of recreation for men
of our armed forces, leaving the city with no pro-
visions for the continuation of the recreational
service. I

Recreational operations by the SERA and the
WPA covered an eight year period from 1934 to
1942 and about twenty-live city and school de-
partment playgrounds, parks, and community cen-

NOVEMBER 1943

ters were open under leadership. The Federal
program gave the people of San Jose an oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with the values of
such an endeavor, and-civic groups and public-
spirited citizens immediately advocated and 'plan-
ned for the creation of a municipal department.
Several timely editorials and stories by the local
press carried the message to the citizenry at large.

The youth guidance section of the Santa Clara
County Council of Social Agencies was the first
group to take action. In April 1942 the guidance
group passed a resolution urging the board of
directors of the Santa Clara County Council to
recommend to the City of Sathose the appoint-
ment of a Coordinating Committee for Social Wel-
fare. The City Council passed favorably on the
request, and City Manager Clarence B. Goodwin
was instructed to appoint the committee. To serve
with him were Walter L. Bachrodt, superintendent
of schools; Mrs. Bessie A. McDonald, chief juve-
nile probation officer of Santa Clara County; and
Dr. Charles Fernish, prominent physician.

Meeting for the first time on May 5, the group
elected Dr. Fernish as chairman and began dis-
cussion of the public recreation problem. Partici-
pating with the coordinating committee were three
members of the youth guidance group—Carl Mc-
Clellan, Dr. Ralph Fields, and Arnold Campo.
These men were invited so that the scope of the
discussion might be broadened.

After several meetings the committee voted
unanimously to recommend to the City Council
the establishment of a municipal recreation de-
partment and the inclusion of $12,000 in the city
budget for the first year of operation. The school
department then agreed to have $4,000 included in
their budget to supplement the city allocation if a
city department was created.

The City Council approved the inclusion of
$12,000 for recreation in the budget submitted by
the city manager and on October 5 passed ordiu
nances 2869 and 2870 creating a Recreation Com-
mission and the position of director of recreation.

(Continued on page 474)

455

Blueprint for Junior Citizenship

HILDREN are the chief
C sufferers from war,
even in America. Our

skies are free of enemy
bombers but our atmos-
phere is not free of appre-
hension and confusion.

Least prepared to ride out

the storms of upheaval and
confiict are our boys and girls. They are caught
on the one hand between the unrest and uncer-

tainty of total war and on the other by the lack of
opportunity to help in the struggle for victory.

\Ve are deeply concerned over-mounting sta-
tistics of juvenile delinquency, but court records

are merely the top of a pyramid; we know that
beneath the surface there is widespread disturbance

in the minds of American youth. Winning the war
requires, as an immediate responsibility, a nation-
wide effort in behalf of the future citizens of this

country.

To the charge that recreation is not the sole
answer to the problems of youth, recreation people
are the first to agree. But no single community
activity can do as much for youth as can recreation.

Thus in establishing the U. S. Junior Citizens ,

Service Corps, the Office of Civilian Defense has
identified recreation committees of local defense
councils as desirable sponsors in local communi-
ties. Although the J'CSC is just getting under way
throughout the country, it is recreation depart-
ments and recreation leaders who are taking the
initiative in setting it up.

The thinking and planning that preceded the
announcement of the Junior Citizens Service Corps
provides an encouraging illustration of cooperation
between private and Federal agencies. Guiding
the deve10pment of the plan was a National OCD
Youth Advisory Committee, one member of which
was a representative of the National Recreation
Association. This committee is continuing its
advice and counsel.

Although it originated at a national level, the
JCSC is entirely a local affair. A number of states
have organized on a state-wide basis, however.
\Vhile the Corps involves organization, it is not
an organization even in local communities, for it
respects the complete autonomy of existing local

456

By FREDERICK H. LEWIS
' Office of Civilian Defense

The U.S. Junior Citizens Service Corps
provides boys and girls with a plan of
strategy for attacking the home front
problems of their local communities

groups, whose war services
it seeks to correlate and
for whose members it pro-
vides recognition as mem-
bers of their own -organi—
zations.

The objectives of the
JCSC are thus (I) to give
Federal recognition to boys
and girls under sixteen for their community war
services, (2) to widen the chances for youth to
participate in the nation’s war effort by coordinat-
ing local youth groups, and (3) to support group
services to youth by strengthening existing groups
and by encouraging new groups.

Individual boys and girls may become enrolled
in (not join) the JCSC by their group leader’s
certification to the local JCSC executive that they
have met three requirements (I) that they are
fulfilling' their obligation as good citizens, (2) that
they have completed ten hours of war services,
and (3) that they have agreed to give at least an
hour a week to continued service.

The JCSC might be likened to a contract be—
tween the nation and its boys and girls in which
both parties are benefited. The nation is short of
manpower and needs the services of its youth. On
the other hand, youth needs a concrete share in the
struggle for victory and needs official notice of its
efforts.

The youth of America are too wise to offer their
services on any but a businesslike basis. It is not
a question of money, for the JCSC is strictly a
volunteer proposition. But they are not anxious
to do “busy-work” and they are quick to judge the
meaningfulness of the jobs that are assigned to
them. Too often they have been given the “brush-
off” by adults who either were unaware that there
were unmet problems in their community or who.
were not willing to do the necessary organizing so
that youngsters could apply their youth power to
meeting the problems.

Recreation is an area in which boys and girls
can make a significant contribution to a problem
which has been intensified by the war. Local lead-
ers will need to keep in sharp focus the distinction
between youth as contributors and youth as recipi-
ents. The emphasis is on what youth can do to

RECREATION

BLUEPRINT FOR JUNIOR CITIZENSHIP ' 457

give recreation to others rather than to themselves.
Obviously, the former results in the latter.

In projecting JCSC recreation service, it is im-
portant that boys and girls share in planning as
well as executing. The recreation committee of
the local defense council will ordinarily have data
on the recreation needs of the community. But this
committee can increase the meaningfulness of youth
services by encouraging them to discuss and evalu-
ate these recreation needs. With the aid of the
recreation committee youth groups might develop,
for example, a community recreation score card in
terms of what youth can do. (See N ew Neighbors
in Your Community, a score card available from
the National Recreation Association for 5 cents.)

In most communities one or more of the follow-
ing problems will be found which young people
can help to solve. Local initiative and imagination
can add many projects to these suggested ones:

I. New families have come to town. '

Find out who and where they are, get the
names of the children; invite them to picnics,
entertainments in their honor; ask them to
club meetings, invite them to join; set up a
youth~manned booth in the Y.M.C.A., Y.W.
C.A., or other centers for young newcomers
to make themselves known and to be given
information as to available activities.

2. A near-by Army camp or U.S.O. recreation
center may need equipment and services.
Collect books and magazines, phonograph
records, games (checkers, chess, cribbage,
backgammon, etc.) athletic equipment, deco-
rations, favors for parties, put on entertain-
ments, do odd jobs.

3. To the victims of old age. disease and acci-
dents, there are rapidly being added the
casualties of war.

Provide entertainment for shut-ins, chronic
invalids, aged persons living alone or in in-
stitutions, homes for crippled children; join
in “welcome-homes” for disabled servicemen
and invite their participation in youth group
activities as speakers and leaders.

4. Community-wide enterprises are needed for

maintaining morale.

Youth groups to sponsor and help organize
community sings, act as “starters” (requires
learning the words of songs), act as ushers
for community gatherings; prepare and pro-

NOVEMBER 1943

duce entertainments for industrial war work-
ers, or for promotion of war savings; plan for
their part in parades (civilian defense, war
bonds) ; plan for special events (national
holidays, national or local campaigns, etc.)

5. Municipal recreation departments need help.
Act as messengers, do clerical work, volun-
teer for assistance to playground leaders, col-
lect and repair equipment, make posters to
publicize the work of the recreation depart-

ment.

This is far from a complete list of things that
boys and girls can do to use recreation as a re—
source of war. From numerous communities come
thrilling stories of youthful ingenuity in meeting
the needs, through recreation, of young and old
alike. The teen towns in the Middle West, the
youth centers and youth councils of Detroit, Bir-
mingham, Burlington, Raleigh, Minneapolis, and
countless other cities show a growing sense of re-
sponsibility on the part of American young people
for themselves and for others.

In this widening civic-mindedness the future of
a strong America lies. By sharpening the com-
munity-consciousness of youth and their leaders
in order to serve the war effort, the Junior Citi-
zens Service Corps can play a deeply significant
role in broadening the base of citizen participation
in the nation’s affairs, for only as youth is given
the opportunity of helping to solve the problems
of their communities will we insure that growth of
citizenship without which a democracy ceases to
ex1st.

New Neighbors in Your Community, the score
card available from the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, presents a simple yardstick by which young
people as well as adults can measure their com-
munity recreation programs.

The card asks such pertinent questions as: Has
your community a year-round recreation depart-
ment with a full-time trained director and staff?
Backyard play space and play lots? Space for
family gardens? Playgrounds with adequate facili-
ties, parks, and playfields? One acre of commu-
nity play space for every 100 people? A com-
munity recreation building or school building open
for young people and adults? A readily accessible
and well operated public outdoor swimming pool
or bathing beach? Facilities for tennis, softball.
and winter sports? Groups in dramatics, music,
hobbies, hiking, and handcrafts?

it’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

HRISTMAS Tree Surplus. One year the

Pittsburgh Parks used four truckloads of

Douglas Fir, Canada Balsam and Western Fir for
wildlife shelters and feeders.

Exploration, The Age of, Margaret R. Scherer.
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 36 “pp., illus., 50
cents. Pictures of explorers, and places of ex—
ploration.

“Hobby Becomes Life W ork.” Imbued with the
desire to disseminate a knowledge of the heavens,
John Alfred Brashear completed his first lens in
1876. Precision instruments of this young mill-
wright were soon found in every important ob-
servatory in the world. To “Uncle John” leisure
hours were best realized in the new Allegheny
Observatory (Pittsburgh) with a public telescope
and a lecture hall free to all people. The biography
of this poor uneducated friend of humble folks,
scientist and humanitarian, is a classic. University
of Pennsylvania Press, 220 pp., $2.25.

Metal Hunters Needed for Uncle Sam. Are you
a mineral hobbyist? Do you know ores? Here
are some important ones: aluminum, light for air-
planes; antimony, alloy to harden lead, storage
battery plates; cadmium, low melting fuses for
electric circuits; chromium, stainless steel for air-
craft; cobalt, hardener for steel tools; copper,
serves in many ways; iron, with carbon to make
steel; lead, batteries; magnesium, incendiary
bombs; manganese, toughens steel; mercury, air-
plane instruments; molybdenum, non-brittle steel;
nickel, stainless armor plate; silver, photographic
plates; strontium, tracer bullets; tin, bearings;
titanium, smoke screens; tungsten, electric light
bulb wire; zinc, cartridges.

Nature Songs might well be the title of Life
Girls Camp, (I4 West 49th Street, New York
City) new booklet. Indian Night, Burrit’s Lul-
laby, Fallen Chestnut, and The Garden Song are
some of the titles. The children created both the
songs and the sketches under skilled and patient

leadership. Write Lois Goodrich, Director for
Songs from M ashipacong.

Sissy Nature? The Philadelphia Academy of
Science, under naturalist Mohr, is offering a two—
fisted nature program. Cave expeditions, over-

458

night mountain trips to study wood rats, and
flash-lighting a dense swamp to tag frogs are
found more attractive than skipping o’er the fields
with a butterfly net or “flowers that bloom in the
Spring—_tra, la.” The Air Service, by the way,
doesn’t think that the study of stars or of bird
flight is “Sissy Nature.”

Simset-to-Sunrise Party. Every Friday evening
last summer, the Ranger-Naturalist of Acadia Na—
tional Park, Bar Harbor, Maine, led an auto-cara-
van trip to the summit of Cadillac Mountain.
Tourists carried their own equipment. Before re-
tiring the party enjoyed an informal campfire.
Reveille was called early so that everyone could
see the sun rise. Park Ranger Maurice Sullivan
acts as guide for many other beautiful and novel
trips as well.

Trees, biggest of each species, are being searched
for by _the American Forests, magazine of the
American Forestry Association, Washington, D. C.
The General Sherman, largest of the Sequoias, is
30 feet through. The tallest redwood is in Hum-
boldt County, California, measuring 364 feet. The
largest white oak, 9 feet through, is at Wye Mills,
Maryland, and the largest Sycamore, 9.5 feet
through, leans over the Muskingum River in Ohio.

“Trees, Guide to the.” The Brooklyn Botanic
Garden has recently published an illustrated 49 pp.
guide, No. I 3, for 30 cents by mail. It will take
one to 620 kinds of trees in the Garden. Other
Guides that might serve as models:

“Rock Garden,” 55 pp., 28 illus., 40 cents
“Glacial Geology,” 43 pp., 22 illus., 40 cents
“Shrubs,” 32 pp., 5 illus., 30 cents
“Lilac,” 34 pp., I4 illus., 30 cents
“Rose Garden,” 12 illus., 50 cents.
“General Guide,” 56 pp. 21 illus., 30 cents

l/Vartime Challenge. “We must draw heavily
upon natural resources. A very real need exists to
preserve the American scene. Americans love their
native landscapes. Primeval parks form part of
the heritage we are fighting to defend. We must
divert destructive uses of all kinds from this

country’s superlative natural areas.” Excerpts
(Continued on page 473)

RECREATION

Lincoln Goes in for Square Dancing

 

Courtesy Division of Recreation, Richmond, Virginia

By RUTHALEE JORGENSEN

Assistant Superintendent of Recreation

Lincoln. Nebraska

QUAKE DANCING became so popular in Lincoln
S over a period of years, that in the winter of
1941-42 the Recreation Board decided to
sponsor an institute in the fundamentals of square
dancing. When the number of registrants proved
too much for the floor space, a second series of
lessons was arranged to take care of the overflow.
Still the registrations poured in, until finally a
third, fourth, and fifth series were planned With a
capacity group for each._ In all, more than 800
' adults attended the institutes. The first group had
five lessons; the second, four; and the final ones,
only three. Many members of the last groups,
however, had already been introduced to square
dancing through its growing popularity as a rec-
reation. activity.

After each series of lessons,
many of the dancers formed
clubs to continue dancing or
included the activity as a part
of the program of an existing
organization such as a church,
the Eastern Star, Odd Fel-

lows, and in some instances,

NOVEMBER 1943

Interest in old-time dancing in LincolnI
Nebraska. grew out of the occasional use
of musical mixers. square and round
dances at schoolI church' and community
parties. Recreation leaders organized an
informal club to learn more dances and
act as demonstration groups. The appear-
ance of Lloyd Shaw's Cheyenne Moun-

tain Dancers also aroused much interest.

a modern dancing club. At
the present time there are
about sixteen organized
clubs which have made
square dancing their pro-
gram.

One veteran club in Lin-
coln has been doing square
dancing quite as a matter
of course for thirty-five
years. To the members of
this group square dancing
is not a revival! They are
most gracious in extending
invitations to newcomers
in theactivity, and they
provide an excellent source
of material for round
dances. Their musicians,
who have been playing for
years, are an inspiration to modern orchestras
which have recently found it necessary to add old-
time music to their repertoires.

Callers have been recruited chiefly from the
square dance groups themselves, although some
old-time callers have been discovered. Individuals
who were interested in learning square dance calls
were invited to be guest callers at sessions of the
institutes, and with increasing proficiency have
helped us in many community programs. Our ex-
perience has been that calling is most effectively
done by a man, but teaching can satisfactorily be
done by a woman.

One of the largest affairs introducing square
dancing as a new recreation activity was an eve-
ing meeting of District I of the Nebraska State
Teachers’ Convention in October 1942. There
were seventy-seven sets on the floor of the Uni—
versity of Nebraska Coliseum at one time, with
others waiting on the side lines to enter into the
dancing. With the help of
demonstration groups from
square dance clubs, and with
experienced square dancers
serving as head couples in
each set, the large number of
beginners was handled very
satisfactorily. This is the gen-

(Continued on page 466)
459

 

Courtesy Austin, Texas, Recreation Department

WORLD AT PLAY

THE club headquar-
ters newly opened in
New York City for
women of the military
services are furnished in palatial splendor. Once
the historic Whitelaw Reid mansion at 451 Madi-
son Avenue, where the Prince of Wales and other
notables were entertained, the club boasts price-
less tapestries, marble pillars, rich carvings and
exquisite mosaics worth a fortune. Facilities of the
club are available to any member of the WAVES,
WACS, SPARS, VVomen’s Marine Corps Re-
serve, and the servicewomen from other United
Nations. And there is no taboo against men guests
either—but they must be invited.———From Recrea—
tion Bulletin of Office of Community War Ser—
Vices.

Servicewomen’s Club
in New York

WHAT is said to be
the first war workers’
“fun spot” in the United
States designed along
the lines of the Stage Door Canteen has been
Opened in the foyer of the Academy of Music in
Philadelphia. The civilian canteen, sponsored by
the Junto, Philadelphia’s adult school, is operated
for the 200,000 persons drawn into the city by war

460

Civilian Canteen for
War Workers

activities. The canteen will be open Monday
through Friday from 8 P. M. till midnight.

Variety entertainment, featuring audience par-
ticipation, and “get acquainted” games will be pre—
sented by theatrical groups playing other Philadel-
phia engagements and by local entertainers. Un-
like the service canteen, an admission charge 0f 50
cents will be made to help cover expenses. All
oflicers and canteen workers will be on a non—
salary basis—From Recreation Bulletin of Office
of Community War Services.

A LINK in the chain
of good fellowship
among the people of
North, Central, and
South America is proposed by a 10,000 mile hiking
trail to extend from Mount McKinley in Alaska
to Aconcagua at the Chile and Argentine border.
When put into effect it will be an extension of the
already completed trail extending from Canada to
Mexico, 2,245 miles across Washington, Oregon,
and California. The trail will be blazed through
virgin wilderness where no human being has ever
been. It will cross the highest mountains in three
continents and will run through tropical jungles
and over some of the highest plateau lands in the

RECREATION

10,000 Mile Trail for
the Americas

WORLD AT PLA Y 401

world. At many places, however, it will parallel
the Alcan and Pan American highways. Many of
the old Spanish and Indian trails will be incor—
porated in its route. The standard sign will be a
large “A” inside a triangle, the “A” standing for
the Americas and each side of the triangle repre-
senting one of the three continents.

Fishing Kits for American Soldiers—Word
has come of new recreational supplies now being
shipped to our overseas forces. The Red Cross,
which is acting as the distributing agency, has
reported the first shipment of 20,000 compact fish-
ing kits for the use of American soldiers around
the globe, the first thousand having been shipped
to military installations in Alaska and the Aleutian

Islands.

The kits, which weigh less than a pound, are
small enough to be carried in the soldier’s pocket,
yet are So complete that they can be used to snag
the strange tropical fish in the waters of the South
Pacific or salmon in the bays of Alaska. The kits
are being provided by American sportsmen through
the International Game Fish Association, Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History, New York City.

Youngsters Solve Danville’s Maintenance
Problem—When the Department of Public
Recreation of Danville, Illinois, began to wonder
about the maintenance of their playgrounds last
summer, three young boys—two fifteen year olds
and one sixteen—came to the rescue. Supervised
by an older man, the boys did an outstanding job
of getting the Danville playground equipment in
shape for summer use.

War Scripts—Radio scripts with a wartime
theme which were presented this past spring and
'summer over the National Broadcasting Company
in cooperation with the Council for Democracy
may be obtained free of charge by writing to the
Council, II West 42nd Street, New York, and
enclosing a three cent stamp for return postage.

The Day of Reckoning series includes “The
People vs. Quisling,” “The People vs. Tojo,”
“The People vs. Pierre Laval,” “The People vs.
the Unholy Three,” “The People vs. Adolph Hit-
ler,” and “The People vs. Benito Mussolini.” The
Dear Adolph series of six narrative letters were
written by Stephen Vincent Benet and based upon

actual letters written to Hitler by representative
Americans.

NOVEMBER 1943

Another Recreation Publication———The De-
partment of Public Recreation of Millburn, New
Jersey, has organized a Press Club which is issu-
ing its own mimeographed publication under the
title, Recreation Megaphone. The purpose as
stated is to provide a means of acquainting people
with the many activities of the Recreation Depart-
ment, to keep them informed of events that have
occurred and advise them of things to come.

In the first issue which appeared in April 1943,
Clarence A. Hill, Chairman, Township Commit-
tee, said the following:

“Democratic government doesn’t just happen.
It exists because people have fought and died for
it. It continues as long as people guard it and are
worthy of it. Good citizens insure good govern-
ment. You today by your interest in your com-
munity are making good citizens of yourselves and
are to that degree helping to insure the future of
our great democracy.”

Christmas Carols for Servicemen—It will be
of interest to recreation workers to know that
295,000 of the Christmas Carol Sheets issued by
the National Recreation Association have been
sent to ports of embarkation to be distributed by
the American Red Cross to men in the Pacific and
EurOpean theaters of war. Readers of RECREATION
who may not be familiar with this sheet will wish
to know it contains the words of ten favorite old
carols and is available at 80 cents per hundred.

A Baseball School—Detroit’s Baseball School
went into session with students enrolled from
fourteen of the city’s playfields. Three age classi-
fications were made: (1) Boys eleven and twelve
years old; (2) thirteen and fourteen; (3) fifteen
and sixteen. The boys were taught through the
use of motion pictures the correct way of playing
each position, and tips on batting were posed by
members of the Detroit Tigers. Moving pictures
of some of the school games were taken, and
through them. the mistakes made by the pupils
were pointed out. All members of the school had
an opportunity to play for the city championship
games held August 23 and 24, 1943.

“Good Neighbors”——-The Chicago Metropoli-
tan Ai‘ea, Office of CivilianDefense, is following
the pageant, “The Fight for Freedom,” so success-
fully presented over a period of months, with a
similar type of production under the title, “Good
Neighbors.” This will be produced weekly by the

462 PVORLD AT PLAY

Chicago Park District in cooperation with the
Chicago Chapter of the American Federation of
Radio Artists.

The pageant gives the highlights of the story of
the Western Hemisphere and touches upon Colum-
bus’ discovery; the Aztec civilization then occupy-
ing Mexico; Cortez and his quest for the Isle of
the Amazons ; Wolfe and Montcalm on the-Plains
of Abraham; Washington’s campaign; Bolivar and
San Martin’s famous meeting when both were
fighting the Spanish rule ; Juarez and the Emperor
Maximilian; the Rio de Janeiro conference; and
similar events. Drama, dance, and song are all

introduced in the pageant, which runs about an
hour.

A limited number of copies are available and
may be secured by writing Ken Carrington, Office
of Civilian Defense, 23 North Wacker Drive,
Chicago, Illinois.

Swing Shift Club—Thirty-one states and the
District of Columbia are represented in the mem-
bership of a young people’s social club for night
shift workers at a Baltimore, Maryland, Y.M.C.A.
Composed of war workers employed on the 4:00
to 12:00, swing shift, it started with 35 young
residents and now includes more than 100 women,
known as associate members. The program in—
cludes game room activities two nights a week for
men only, and a dance Friday nights. —- From

Recreation Bulletin, Office of Community War
Services.

Chicago Youth Panel—At a recent youth
panel in Chicago youngsters from the Middle West
who spoke regarding the problems of the modern
world emphasized the failure of local governments
to enforce the laws, the selling of liquor to minors,
the prevalence of gambling, the lack of enforce-
ment of child labor laws, the failure of the cities
to provide facilities and leadership through which

the young people could have a happy life under
safe and wholesome conditions.

The youngsters asked: Why are not the laws
enforced? Why are not the communities better
equipped? Why do our elected representatives
fail to do what we would like to have them do?
Why do the evil forces of the community'appear
stronger than the better citizens? Why do not the
fathers and mothers make known to their elected
representatives what they would like to see done
in the best interests of all the people?

The boys talked openly of graft. Boys mostly
of high school age already took it for granted that
graft was exceedingly prevalent in local govern-
ment in the United States.

A Bird Sanctuary Planned ——- The Palisades
Interstate Park Commission has announced a
gift from Archer H. Huntington of 500 acres
of land adjoining the peak known as High Tor
on the west bank of the Hudson River, some
thirty-five miles north of New York City. The
region will be set aside for the establishment
of an inland bird sanctuary located on one of
the principal migratory bird fly-ways in the
East. It will prove a boon to bird students and
nature-enthusiasts in general.

The presentation of this land to the state
marks another step in the preservation of the
Palisades of the Hudson River, a conservation
movement originally undertaken in 1900 by the
Palisades Interstate Park Commission.

An Old-Fashioned Song Festival—Hill set—
tlers in the region of Ashland, Kentucky, gather
each June for an old-fashioned song festival, to
sing the songs which their ancestors.brought over
when they came from England in the seventeenth
century. The American Folk Song Society,
founded through the interest of Miss Jean Thomas
in collecting half—lost folk songs from this region
and later from many other parts of the United
States, encourages and sponsors the festival.

Human Interest Material —— “In order to
provide material and ammunition for speakers
and discussion groups, directors and leaders of
clubs and centers for boys and girls in the
County (Westchester, N. Y.) have been asked
to contribute case histories of children who
have been inHuenced for the better through
their association in the club. Many excellent
contributions have been sent in, varying from
examples of children who learned a new skill
or developed a hobby to cases of delinquent
boys or girls who were headed for an institu-
tion. This material will be printed and sent to
various committees and groups which are dis-
cussing problems of juvenile delinquency. It is
the type material which has appeal and which
illustrates the facts and statistics and makes
them live.”-—-From report of the W'estchester
County, New York; Recreation Commission.

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY 463

Any Logs ?——The Chicago Park District cen-
ters have used logs in some of the boys’ hang-out
spots as benches on which the boys can carve their
initials to their hearts’ content. When the time
came recently to dispose of the logs, the following
announcement to recreation workers at the various
park centers appeared in the Chicago Park Dis-
trict’s Weekly Administrative Bulletin:

“If you can use these logs to advantage in the
games room or out of doors, anchoring them in
place and forming a rustic council circle, a place
for outdoor game boards or a children’s toy play
center where mothers can sit in the shade and
children can stage tea parties, communicate at once
with your area supervisor’s oflice so that we can
make a selection, cut the logs to the measurements
you indicate, and plan for their tranSportation."

What playground director wouldn’t like a few
real logs?

School Accidents — Gymnasium accidents
caused one-third of all injuries occurring in school
buildings during the 1941-42 school year accord-
ing to a report made to the National Safety Coun-
cil by school. systems with a total enrollment of
slightly more than 1,000,000 students. On school
grounds, unorganized activities were involved in
41 per cent of the accidents. Football and base—
ball accounted for 20 per cent and 12 per cent re-
spectively, and other organized games for 18 per
cent. Only 9 per cent of the accidents occurred on
school ground apparatus. r

Buffalo Hiking Club Continues Its Activities
—Inability to use private cars or to charter busses
to take them into the country has not discouraged
members of the Buffalo Hiking Club, which has
been on the march since 1937. Every Sunday
morning the group takes a regular bus to a point
outside the city where it can take to the woods.
Members of this group hike for fun, not to make

' records, and on each trip they learn a little more
about nature.

I The club was described in the March, 1941,
issue of RECREATION by its founder, Mabel H.

' James, who now writes to tell us that “the club is
not a casualty of the war.”

I A Scrap Drive Pays the Bills—~Money for
the operation of the Volunteers Service Center in
Tracy, California, is being provided from the
receipts of a scrap drive. The center is located in a
large room of the school building which the city

| NOVEMBER 1943

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

 a
[f »‘ Equipment for all Sports

a

y .

’ THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY SIS, CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

furnishes along with the necessary light and heat.
Services are taken care of by volunteers—From

Recreation Bulletin, Office of Community War
Services.

Outdoor Bowling—Loyd Hathaway, Direc-
tor of Recreation at Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, reports great popularity for outdoor
bowling which he believes to be one of the best
games for all ages. At a charge of only ten
cents a game last year, the Recreation Depart-
ment cleared from $600 to $700. Mr. Hathaway
advises officials planning to build outdoor
bowling alleys to construct no less than four
units.

The Recreation Department secured from
commercial bowling alleys discarded pins and
made croquet balls from them. With these and
duck pins, games for children were organized.

Program for Child Care—At the Conference
on Child Care held in New York City in March,
Dr. Alice V. Keliher, director of Child and Youth
Services for the Greater New York CDVO, pre-
sented an eight-point program tp meet the child
care needs of New York’s million and a half chil-

464 JOHN BARNES PRATT

l

dren. Her plan included: secure homes and family
living for the city’s children, adequate health ser-
vices, well-rounded educational program, social
services to meet increased needs, vigilance of citi-
zens to see that the needs of children in wartime
are met, national program for security as a basic
element in child welfare, volunteer service needed
to assist in wartime emergencies, and carefully
planned city-wide, decentralized program of ser-
vices for children.

On the Air—Approximately 200 women reg-
istered for the radio broadcasting class set up by
the Department of Recreation in West Hartford,
Connecticut. Two courses were established to
cover the subjects of announcing, producing, and

script writing with weekly meetings for ten weeks
at the WTHT broadcasting studio.

It’s the Lawl—The New Hampshire legis-
lature has enacted a law permitting the towns of
that state to apprOpriate funds for “Entertainment
for men of that town at the time of their induction

into the armed forces of the United States in time
of war.”

Park and Recreation Policies—A subcom-
mittee on playground designing of the Ameri-
can Institute of Park Executives, A. E. Berthe,
Chairman, has issued the following sugges-
t1on:

“The point to keep in mind is to acquire the
largest areas that you can afford to improve,
maintain, and operate. They will cost less per
acre to operate, will provide more recreation
for more people of more age groups, with a
larger variety of personal inclinations, at less
unit cost per person and per acre than the
smaller grounds. They will also produce
greater land benefit to surrounding property.
When we think of a park we do not think of a
small bare playground—we think of a land-
scaped area and the all-round service that a
park has always provided.”

War Service Program in Cleveland—During
“Youth Victory Activities Week” in Cleveland,
Ohio, young Clevelanders staged events at the
War Service Center illustrating their participation
in salvage, child care, hospital work, and other
phases of the victory effort. Included in the pro-
gram was a “checking service” for the children of
mothers shopping downtown, which was run by
girls trained at the city recreation centers.

John Barnes Pratt

JOHN BARNES PRATT, president of A. S. Barnes
and Company, book publishers, died at his
home in Montclair, N. J., on October I, 1943. He
was seventy-seven years old.

For many years John Barnes Pratt had a deep
personal interest in the National Recreation As-
sociation. He watched the progress of the Asso-
ciation’s campaigns and contributed generously.
About a year ago when the Association published
a little pamphlet, “Seven Hymns for Everyone,
One for.Each Day of the Week,” John Barnes
Pratt helped in the selection of these hymns and
permitted the Association to consult his rare col-
lection of hymn books for this project. He shared
in the cost of publishing this little hymn pamphlet
so that it might be distributed without cost to the
men and women in the armed forces of our coun-
try. Today, men all over the world are singing
these hymns and chaplains constantly send their
appreciation.

Many of the outstanding recreation books were
published by his firm, but his chief interest was in
the movement itself and its possibilities for human
betterment.

The members of the Association staff thought
of him as a personal friend, as one of the Associa-

tion family, to whom they could turn for advice
and help.

Postwar Boom for Sports — Colonel Ted
Bank, Chief of the Athletics and Recreation
Branch of the War Department, is convinced after
a tour of camps that the most extensive competi-
tive Sports program the nation has ever experi-
enced will develop after the war. Soldiers in all
branches of the services are engaged in a sports
program “so large in some respects it defies com-
prehension,” he said. Colonel Bank was formerly
football coach at the University of Idaho—From
Sports Age, April 1943.

Training Golf Caddies—As one of its activi-
ties the Raleigh, North Carolina, Recreation De-
partment has trained 200 golf caddies. Before the
training course these caddies received 50 cents an
hour; after training they were paid 75 cents. The
course was given in weekly sessions of two hours
extending over a month. A Caddie Club has been
organized through which the boys enjoy outings
and other activities.

RECREATION

l

CHRISTMAS TOWN IN MOONBEAM MEADOW 465

Christmas Town in Moonbeam

Meadow

(Continued from page 427)

and the tiny gnomes come out for a rest, and then
frolic in rhythmic pantomime. Lunch hour passes
and the gnomes return to work.

Afternoon. To gay, spirited music, Candy Canes
in red and white costumes dance in ballet, soldiers
and sailors drill their patriotic parts, and dolls in
party dress do a formal ballet. This merriment
honors Santa who receives his toy friends around
the huge Christmas tree, dazzling with shining
ornaments.

Evening. Darkening hues change the sky effects.
Girls’ voices mingle with the sounds of the night
in “Clair de Lune” and the spell of evening is en-
hanced by a soft blue and silver Star Dust ballet.

On this night before Christmas all,of Santa’s
toy friends assemble and frolic about in high spirit.
Soon Santa bids farewell, mounts his reindeer, and
sweeps across the sky through the snowflakes. All
wave their farewell as the pageant ends.

Music for the Program

The program was opened by an organ selection,
“Chanson,” by Candlyn. Processionals of choris—
ters with lighted candles, dressed in white gowns,
moved up the aisles singing loved old Christmas
carols. As they approached the stage, the curtains
parted, and holy tableaux were presented—exact
replicas of master paintings of the Holy Family,
the Angels, the Shepherds, and the Wisemen.
Organ music set a background for the tableaux.

Next came the “Cantique de Noel” by Adam,
sung by the San Francisco Girls’ Choir. Organ
renditions of “Songs in the Night” by Spinney and
“Entrancing Dream” by de Lille, preceded the
Night sequence which included “A Christmas
Story,” “The Children’s Prayer,” by Humper—
dinck, and “Snowflake Ballet” by Ch0pin.

Music for the scene in Santa’s Workshop was
“Baby Dolls” by Hadley, “English Dolls” by Ger—
man, “Russian Dolls” by Moussorgsky, “Chinese
Dolls” played on butterfly harps, and “Mexican
Dolls” by Roberto. “Gnomes Frolic” by Poldini
set the theme for the Noon Hour.

In the Afternoon scene, the Junior Dance Group
performed to “Candy Canes” by Strauss, while
children from two of the playgrounds participated
in “Soldier and Sailor Drill” by Peters. The

Senior Dance Group did the “D011 Ballet” by
Herbert.

NOVEMBER 1943

 

DIAMOND PRODUCTS

Are On Every Fighting Front:
With the Army. the Navy. the Marinesl

on tanks and in airplanes . . . Diamond

Tools and Products are doing their part
to keep Uncle Sam's fighting machinery
moving forward . . . They are used on
the farm and in every essential war
industry on the home front.

We're doing our best to take care

of our customers. but war needs must
come first.

DIAMOND (ALK

v HORSESHOE co.
46|0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

“Clair de Lune” by Debussy, “Star Dust” by
Levitzki, and “Dance of the Toys” by von Suppe

comprised the program for Evening. The Finale
was “Christmas Piece” by Jul Grison.

The program was under the supervision of
Josephine D. Randall, superintendent of recrea—
tion, and was directed by Lydia Patzelt, super-
visor of dancing, Marie V. Foster, supervisor of
music, and Hester Proctor, supervisor of drama.

The sets were designed by William G. Merchant,
San Francisco architect.

Our Mistake!

In the September issue of RECREATION we in-
correctly located Garvey Memorial Park in the
city of Los Angeles. A “native Californian” has
written us that there are a few towns in southern
California that are not in Los Angeles! We
hasten to state that Garvey Memorial Park is in
Garvey, and that the Los Angeles County Recre-
ation Department should be given credit for the

picture and the information contained in the World
at Play item on page 350.

466 LINCOLN GOES IN FOR SQUARE DANCING

YOU GET THE
BEST VALUE
IN NATIONAL

 

Ruggedly Built fat! 73“,

a
Priced Right * “fa/.3, (,3 1 Joe

9 "Oz;
100% Sade ,. Mm M4,: ’3?
. u

Made, of real Layer Felt and "' 50x PADS
guaranteed free from broken a 1N3 R
punching needles, common in 7R4 INGS

. IN]
at N
ordinary punched process felts. p40 G BAGS

National Mats and Pads are * 3 CO 5
widely used by High Schools, ,l. 455341 RS
Universities and Colleges 57C. l 845
throughout the country. They 57¢, 55

represent outstanding values . . .
built right . . . priced right. . .
and stand the gaff.

NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.

365—75 MARQUETTE — — FOND DU LAC, WIS.

THE
THANKSGIVING

BOOK

. HERE’S a book you’ll be thankful for—a

real holiday manual complete with back-
ground material and practical suggestions for
a Thanksgiving program—PLUS a 7-page
bibliography of entertainment ideas.

F YOU’RE planning a play or pageant,
here is a Wealth of information about har-
vest-time traditions and ceremonies. . . . If it’s
a ceremonial or festival, use the ready-made

scripts or adapt them for your locality. . . .
Or if a party is on your schedule, try “The

Apple is King.”

Forty-seven pages of helpful
Thanksgiving material

. . . Price 25 Cents

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. N. Y.

Lincoln Goes in for Square Dancing
(Continued from page 459)
eral plan used in introducing square dancing to
any‘large group. Members of organized clubs are
generous with their assistance on all such oc-

casions.

Last May all organized square dance groups co-
operated in an annual folk festival. The prOgram
included a demonstration of the favorite dance of
each group. So delightful did the evening prove
that there is a demand for a fall festival to be held
around the Thanksgiving holidays as an exchange
of ideas and dances. The program at the spring

festival was as follows:
Opening Waltz Do Si Around the Opposite
Demonstrations Girl
Grand March Green Mountain Volunteers
Varsouvianna Sylvan Glide
Spanish Cavalier Skaters Waltz
Waltz Oxford Carlyle
1. Portland Fancy 9. Circle Two Step
2. Squares 10. Squares'
Life on the Ocean Wave Birdie in a Cage

(Bob Black Variation) The Ocean Wave
Shoot That Pretty Girl 11. Narcissus
3. Rye Waltz 12. Squares
4. Squares ' Divide the Ring and

Inside Arc-h Docey Partners

Sally Goodin
5. Heel and Toe Polka

Swing at the Center and
Swing at the Side

6. Squares 13. Seven Step.
Right Hand Up Left 14. Squares
Hand Under Forward Six and Fall
Oh Susanna Back Eight
7. Badger Savotto The Girl I Left Behind
8. Squares Me
Lady Round the Lady 15. Schottische
Three Ladies Chain 16. Squares
Texas Star
Intermission Whoa Haw Gee

17. Good Night Waltz
A representative of each of the square dance

groups serves as “a member of an advisory board
known as the Lincoln Council of Folk and Square
Dance Clubs. This group promotes the spring fes-
tival, coordinates activities of the various clubs,
and helps them function efficiently in large affairs
of city-wide interest. Such functions, because of
the increased popularity of square dancing, have
grown materially in the past year.

Christmas for the Birds
(Continued from page 431)

its purpose the building of the child’s appreciation
of nature, a love for folklore and legend about
birds, beasts and insects, and a greater apprecia-
tion of better books.

RECREATION

 
    
   
   
     
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
 

 
 

, the better-than-ever Voit Syn:

_- _gb5er-covered athletic ball is
I.- '

o ogr lighting forces. We knew i}; 

  

w ouldn’t have it otherwise. »  g: I

' ~ wwa tomorrow that may arrive ~
“an? @44mthese new, improved ,

I  tbolls, volley balls, soc-

 _  and others will be
1 es -  ls play better, last

  

sist wear on rough playing

5 ' inflated lenger, thanks to

  
 

synt  .5". ‘cs, and Voit war-born

"know-h ° « =oit'in'1944.‘

  

BUY WAR B  . __

W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

1600 East 25th Street, los Angeles 1], California

 

NOVEMBER 1943 467

468

 
  

\L

,0

I

#MM/mx’ A/wr Jamar/0mm 54AM. ..
BOWLING TH E NEW Z‘WAY

   

TEACHING ARTS AND CRAFTS IN MISSISSIPPI

. 
III "

 

J/
‘.

0 NEW . . . Two-Way Bowling alleys are space saving—a complete bowling
alley that is operated by the players themselves — no pin boys required.

0 SENSATIONAL . . . Two—Way Bowling alleys sell for a fraction of the cost
of regulation alleys — superbly constructed to last a life—time.

0 DIFFERENT . . . Two-Way Bowling alleys are portable— easily assembled
and just as easily taken apart —- perfect for indoor or outdoor use.

with Compliments of Raleigh Qiigarrttpa

Additional score sheets furnished free to all branches
of the armed services and the U. S. 0. Centers using

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys.

TWIl-WAY BOWLING CBRPIIRATIIIN

Telephone LExington 2-8828 0

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

I
V

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..

Address ............................................................ ..
City .................................... .. S tate .................. ..

 

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

 

 

#

Teaching Arts and Crafts in
Mississippi
{Continued from page 453)

In each workshop was one or more classes of
children, gathered together for use in practice
teaching, whom we taught every day before the
teacher-pupils to illustrate methods of arousing
interest and holding attention. With these young—
sters we also promoted a rhythm band of home—
made instruments made in the handcraft shop by
the teachers. The main difficulty at rehearsals was
to keep the adults from wanting to perform to the
exclusion of the children. An old leather jacket
made the head of the nail head drum. A pair of
pot lids were cymbals. Tambourines were in-
vented by attaching pop bottle tops with wire to
the edge of flat pot lids. Sandpaper blocks and
clapping blocks were easily made. With a piano
accompaniment we produced some stirring marches,
with orchestral parts, believe it or not! The trick
is to drill the children first in simple one-two-three

rhythms because some have little feeling for

rhythm, much less melody.
One demonstration in teaching children to draw

was the construction of a shadow play. Small
figures about six inches high are cut out of stiff
cardboard, mounted on sticks, and moved back and
forth behind a muslin screen before a light or a

window. Without having any pictures to copy,
members of the little class drew Snow White, the

dwarfs, the huntsman, and other characters. Chil-
dren will put the essential characteristics in as they
seem to draw from memory and imagination. In-
advertently, a teacher—pupil had the children copy
some pictures from a book one day and the results
were so sad that they were abandoned. Young
genius burns if left alone.

We had two additional objects in mind besides
teaching art and handcrafts. Knowing the value
of occupied leisure, we wanted to impart some

notion of the pleasure of the skills and apprecia-
tions as an end in themselves and to encourage the

teachers to pass this on to their pupils as a con-

RECREATION

 

A DREAM COMES TRUE 469

tinuing experience. We wanted to demonstrate
how easy it is, when interest is aroused, to carve,
draw, model, paint, or weave and that these ac-
complishments naturally open up new and surpris-
ing avenues of activity and culture. And then, too,
these leisure-time productions can be turned into
some financial profit by utilizing native or easily
obtained materials for gifts or for sale. Or, as is
now the case, hand skills may be discovered and
turned into use in profitable industry.

A Dream Comes True
(Continued from page 450)

ing, fundamental exercises, themes, and variations
on basic dance m0vements. i

A concert in the auditorum by the Carnegie-
Department of Public Recreation Orchestra offer-
ing selections from Bela, Haydn, Luigini, and
Brahms. '

A short play, “An Apartment for Rent,” and
scenes from “Life with Father,” “The Royal
Family,” and “Stage Door.”

The following selections presented by the
chorus: “Praise Ye the Name of the Lord,”
Tschaikowsky; Scene and Prayer from C avalleria
Rusticana, Mascagni; “Bridal Chorus” from Rose
Maiden, Cowen; and “Finale” from Martha, von
F lotow.

As the finale, Johann Strauss’ “Tales from the
Vienna Woods” gave an opportunity for an im—
pressive demonstration of the corelationship of the
arts, when the dance, music, and drama groups
combined on the stage to interpret the composer’s
conception of woodland beauty.

The Future

A firm foundation has been laid for the develop—
ment of the recreational arts in Baltimore, and
although a Carnegie Corporation grant will not be
available for a second year, so successful did the
demonstration prove that the city itself has appro-
priated enough funds to carry on at least 50 per
cent of the choral, orchestral, dance, and arts and
crafts program. Drama will be taught and the pro-
gram supervised by a full-time worker from the
Department’s staff.

Baltimore has demonstrated that people wel-
come the opportunity to find self-expression
through a recreational approach to the arts. And
in spite of the obstacles to be overcome whenever
new activities are promoted and the unavoidable

restrictions necessitated by the war, “it can be
done!”

NOVEMBER 1943

 

“0N FIELDS OF
FRIENDLY STRIFE”

The thrilling struggle for supremacy in football
goes on in America—building strong bodies for
America’s young manhood; while, on those “other
fields” around the world, thousands of football-
trained American fighters are proving that General
MacArthur was right when he said that these
friendly fights would “bear the fruits of victory!”

It is our privilege to believe in and crusade for
America’s competitive sports as the backbone of a
physically fit America. Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
Chicago, New York, and other leading cities.

Wuhan

S ports Equipment

 

IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

470 COMMUNITY DIFFERENCES

 

“WAR AND EDUCATION"
5|2 pages. black vellum. $4.00

Enthusiastically received—“Stupendous,” E. A.
Hooton, Harvard. “Curiously provocative," Lawrence
Dame, Boston Herald. “A refreshingly fearless book,”
H. S. Tattle, Coll. of the City of N. Y. “A brilliant
and dynamic book,” P. E. Richter, Pa.

“The range of topics is phenomenal. It has in it
the makings of a dynamic philosophy of education,”
Carrol D. Champlin, Pa. State College. “Any who may,
now or later, speak. or write, or teach on the relation
of this or any other war to education will find here a
matchless source of materials,” Payson Smith, Univ.
of Maine. “It is the most timely and pertinent con-
tinuation of Parrington’s general theme. It is a pro-
found consideration of the main current of Ameri-
can thought in our time,” T. E. Boll, Univ. of Pa.

27th Edition

HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SGHUULS,

|024 pages. red silk cloth. $6.00

Up to date critical description and listing of over
3,000 schools. Reviews educational thought, activities
and changes of the year, the war situation in the
schools and the adjustments that must be made in
the post-war period. “In these days of terrific transi-
tion and change, educators and parents are reading
with greater interest than ever your comments on the
trends of the times,” I. W. Wickenden, Tabor
Academy. “Our standard reference,” Pres. C. C.
Williams, Lehigh University.

Circulars and Table of Contents on Request

PORTER SARGENT, 11 Beacon Street, Boston

 

W

Community Differences
( Continued from page 454)

by informal discussions with the leaders of the
community and with the pe0ple who participate in
his program, and by attending civic meetings. The
most reliable source of information should be the
members of his advisory board who have often
lived in the community most of their lives and who
have had experience in dealing with the recreation
problems of the community.

One director, with whom I worked, had a habit
of driving up and down the .streets of his commu-
nity studying the outward appearance of the homes
in which the playground children lived. He ob-
served such details as windows and curtains, the
condition of the front yard and the porch. Then
he watched the child on the playground and asso-
ciated the characteristics of the home for a better
picture of the child’s home life.

Another director made a study from the regis-

tration records of his community. His findings
were drawn on a city map using a color pencil
system to designate industrial areas, delinquency
areas, and the sections of the community with the
highest rate of contagious diseases. He also had
the areas around each playground marked accord-
ing to the distance each age group would have to
travel to participate in that playground’s program.
With one glance at his map, he could tell you more
information about .each section and neighborhood
of his community than almost any other person in
the city.

These are devices which directors have used to
keep community knowledge at their finger tips.
Both of these men, however, were employed in
communities where conditions made it possible to
employ such devices.

After securing the knowledge about the com-
munity, the director then develops his program,
leadership, and facilities to serve the needs of the
people in that community. The degree to which
this development can take place is governed by
many factors: trained leadership, facilities, finan-
ces, and, in the metropolitan areas, space.

0 A specific example of how space limits the de-
velopment of a program is New York City where
thousands of boys are forced to play modified or
invented ball games such-as punch ball and stick
ball because lack of space prevents them from play-
ing baseball.

The adustment will be made in deciding to what
degree each skill or recreation will be developed in
this particular community—whether camping will
be stressed more than social recreation, arts and
crafts over athletics, dramatics emphasized more
than music, and so forth.

Often the traditions of a community further
complicate a situation and make it impossible for
a director to work out a formula to solve problems.
Instead of trying to break down these characteris-
tics immediately, the program should be molded
around them.

I worked in one city where the pe0ple thought
in terms of competition. The more you could put
competition in every phase of the program and the
more prizes and awards that you could give away,
the more succesful your program was considered.
In this same community, athletics was the chief
form of amusement, greatly overemphasized in
comparison to other skills. It required a painfully
slow educational process to interest the partici-
pants in other phases of recreation.

RECREATION

AS YOUNG AS THEY FEEL 471

As Young as They Feel

(Continued from page 435)

ninety but when time came for her to speak her
lines, she was as excited as a twenty-year-old
novice making her first appearance on the stage.

Meetings of the Friendly Club cater exclusively
to the likes and interests of the members. Most of
the time these sessions are closed, because they feel
that young people, with set notions about grand-
mothers and how they should act, may put a
damper on the fun. ‘

Occasionally the members like to add a note of
dignity to their meetings and attend attired in full—
length evening gowns, corsages and all, even
though it may be midafternoon. After the business
of the day is taken care of, anything can and does
happen to provide entertainment for the members.

If any of their daughters peeked in on one of
these after-meeting get-togethers, she. might be
quite surprised to find the grandmothers demon-
strating a little “jive” to the tune of some lively
records or spicing up a game of cards. Or maybe
there would be some old-fashioned community
singing interspersed with a lively exchange of the
latest town news.

Gas rationing doesn’t interfere in the least with
the activities of the Friendly Club. No, indeed!
They just hop the nearest bus or street car to
arrive at their clubhouse in the Willow Wood
Community Center. Neither would it bother these
ladies to have to revert back to the modes of trans—
portati'on they used when “grandma was a girl”—
the good old horse and buggy or horseless carriage.

One of the most popular amusements at the
Center is weaving on the little hand looms which
one of the members devised for the club. Here the
ladies make doilies and paper purses which they
shellac to look like leather. There are also two big
looms such as the Navajo women or Colonial
dames used. More and more of the members are
turning to these activities every day.

Birmingham’s most unique and exclusive or-
ganization has attracted much attention in the city,
and the press has devoted many stories to its ac-
tivities. A recent editorial in the Birmingham
Post said, “Here, indeed, is an evidence of the
true spirit of life, that zestful living spirit that
won‘t let a person get old in mind although the
body may grow weary. Such spirit is fine and
should serve to indicate to all persons that age ‘is
what one makes it and actually, ‘you can be as
young as you feel.’ ”

NOVEMBER 1943

 

 
  
   
 

 
 

Send for New
Circular—Just Out!

It illustrates smart modern styled
suits to meet every gym require-
ment, each an outstanding value in
its field. National suits are recom-
mended by hundreds of Physical
Directors throughout the nation.

0 NATIONAL gym suits are
carefully manufactured and

full cut with "action free"
tailoring.

no .... '-
.....
:: ..

0 ALL NATIONAL fabrics are
mercerized for extra tensile
strength, an added feature
for longer wear.

0 NATIONAL styles are smart
and modern — tailored to

look and wear to your
complete satisfaction.

NATIONAL

Sports Equipment Company
365-375 Marquette Fond du Lac. Wis.

Postwar Planning Is No Joke!

. even though it has provided plenty of material
for the professional funsters and cartoonists.

BUT this planning business is a very much up-to-
the-minute problem and recreation areas and facili-
ties have a key place in the postWar scheme of

municipal developments.

People DO appreciate the importance of recreation
in their daily lives, and they ARE demanding more
adequate neighborhood facilities and services.

That is only one of the reasons why STANDARDS
FOR NEIGHBORHOOD RECREATION AREAS
AND FACILITIES is a must booklet for your library

. and you’ll want a handy desk copy too (plus
several staff copies) for quick reference on the ac-
cepted standardS‘of park, recreation, and city planning
authorities. Keep these figures at your fingertips.

Send for your copies today

. . . Price 15 cents

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

3|5 Fourth Avenue
New York IO. N. Y.

472

    

'5 VOCATIONAL
GUIDANCE

a part of your work?

Here is just the material you need—material

to put in the hands of the young people under
your direction.

SUCCESS VOCATIONAL INFORMATION
MONOGRAPHS are written in language the teen-age

boy and girl can understand. They deal with prob-

lems these young people are facing; they answer the
questions young America asks.

Each MONOGRAPH deals with a specific trade or
vocation from farming to photography.

Excellent for use in pre-induction training, these
MON OGRAPHS give direction to the studies of young

men about to enter the armed forces—how they can

best serve their country—how to prepare to resume
civilian life at the end of the war. ’

Girls will also be interested in the requirements,
opportunities, and achievements in such professions

as nursing, secretarial work, home economics in
industry, and so on.

A PARTIAL LIST OF TITLES
(IMPORTANT: Order by Number)

I. Mechanical Drafting 36. Photography

2. Pattern Making 37. Medicine

3. Machine Shop 38. Dentistry
Mechanics 39. Medical Technology

4. ElectricalArc Welding 40. Nursing

9. Electrical Installation 42. Chemistry in Industry

20. Bookkeeping 44. Home Economics in

2l. Accounting Industry

22. Office Machine 47. Civil Service
Operation 48. Foreign Service

23. Secretarial Work 5i. General Farming

24. Aviation 57. Social Work
26. Diesel Engineering 60. Law
29. Radio and Television

Send for a complete list of titles.

These helpful books may be purchased
singly or in quantity. At the remarkably low
price of 30¢ each (in quantities of 10 or more,
any assortment) or 32¢ each (in quantities of
less than 10), no vocational director can afford

not to give this concise, practical information
to his group.

Send orders and requests to

MORGAN-DILLON & CO.

46I6 North Clark Street
Chicago 40. Illinois

 

A CREATIVE COMMUNITY CHRISTITIAS

A Creative Community Christmas
(Continued from page 426)

crooks were tall sunflower stalks. While the shep—
herds made their obeisance to the Child, the audi-
ence sang “Away in a Manger.” Soon the three
kings in the rear of the hall were heard singing
“We Three Kings of Orient Are” as they came
tov‘vard the manger. Excellent kings they were,
with costumes borrowed from a local lodge. Being
members of the local Viking Chorus they sang
with majestic confidence. As they presented their
gifts, the carol was continued by the audience.

Finally ten high school girls, all in white dresses,
came from the rear of the hall, each bearing a
lighted candle, as we all sang “Bring a Torch,
Jeannette, Isabella,” from Christmas Carols. The
scene was now complete with Mary, Joseph, and
the manger, the shepherds, the kings and the chil-
dren, the latter’s candles seeming to join in praise
with those on the still lighted candelabra at either
side of the stage. We all sang “O Come All Ye
Faithful,” and thus closed the festival.

There was much hesitation in leaving after the
curtains were drawn. \Ve had to call out a “Merry
Christmas” to indicate that the festival was over,
but two or three women came to the piano to ask
for more singing and playing. So we had some
more, informal and around the piano or near it,
and it was unforgettably enjoyable.

A very delightful part of the whole affair was
the informal chatting in the corridor while people
waited for the costumed and made-up participants
to get back into their usual costumes and faces.
We felt assured that the purposes and faiths of a
Christmas festival were entirely true and prac-
ticable.

Hornussen
(Continued from page 451)

The puck, which is about two and one-half
inches in diameter and one inch thick, is put on
the tee and held in place with clay. Now the first
batter takes his stand. He wields an ash-wood
club, ten or twelve feet long and surprisingly
flexible, and with this he addresses the puck like a
golfer. Then, suddenly, he swings the club around
his head in a complete circle, and crack I—the puck
is gone. °

Immediately the fielders come into action. They
stand in single file some distance apart near the
other end of the field, each with his large, flat
wooden racquet or “shovel.” (See page 451.)

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 473

With this they try to “kill” the puck before it
reaches the ground. If one of them succeeds, or if
the puck leaves the fairway three times in succes-
sion, the batter is out. Otherwise he scores a point
for his side. When the disc is intercepted the kill-
ers gain the point. The score for the innings is
totaled and the fielding side goes in when the
batters are all out. At the half defenders and at-
tackers change sides. Three umpires officiate for

each team.

A good batter can send the hornet a distance of
from two to three hundred yards, and since it
usually rises from twenty to thirty feet from the
ground, the fielders have to be on the alert if they
want to kill it. A great deal of judgment and tim-
ing is needed in this operation, but Hornussen
players have been bred to the game from their
early youth and are extremely keen-eyed and
muscular. As they throw their shovels into the air,
the sharp crack of shovel-blade meeting hornet in
the midair is greeted by much applause.

The Emmenthal, in the Bernese district, is the
traditional home of this ancient Swiss game, but
since the beginning of the nineteenth century, it has
slowly but surely become popular in other parts of
Switzerland as well. There are several Hornet
Clubs in Zurich, for instance, and it is played in
various forms in the Valaisan Lotschen Valley, the
Priittigau, and the Engadine.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 458)

from statement by William P. Wharton, president
National Parks Association.

Waterfowl. In 1935 baiting was prohibited and
the shooting season reduced to one month. The
ducks made a small gain but the number of hunt-
ers outstripped the ducks. Dr. Ira Gabrielson,
Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, says
that ducks are again exposed to excess shooting.
Send to the Emergency Conservation Committee,
734 Lexington Avenue, New York City, for further
information. Among their publications are: No.
37, “Sportsmen’s Heaven is Hell for Ducks,” free;
No. 2, “Gambling with the Ducks,” free; No. 79,
“Shortage of Waterfowl,” 10 cents.

Weather. “The Mystery and Mastery of the
Air.” Cornell Rural School Leaflet, January 1943.
Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. 32 pp.

NOVEMBER 1943

   

  
     

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worlter l

MAGAZINES

Parents’ Magazine, October 1943

Children Like to Make Things, by Charlotte G.
Garrison and Emma D. Sheehy

Parent-Teacher, September 1943

Never a Dull Moment, by Mrs. O. T. Illerich, Cali-
fornia.

Survey Graphic, October 1943
Welcome, Soldier, by Mark A. McCloskey

The W omaus Press, October 1943
Art in Wartime, by Margaret E. Kuhn
Boomtown Briefs

PAM PHLETS

Care and Maintenance of Athletic Equipment

Available free with the compliments of A. G. Spalding
& Bros, New York, N. Y.; Wilson Athletic Goods

Mfg. Co., Inc., Chicago, Ill.; The P. Goldsmith
Sons, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio; Rawlings Manu-

facturing Co., St. Louis, Mo.

Christian Youth in Wartime Service

The Internationual Council of Religious Education,
203 N. Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Ill. Price 10
cents

Civilian War Service, an Operating Guide for Local
Defense Councils

thce of Civilian Defense, Publication 3626. Super-

intendent of Documents, U. S. Government Print-
ing thce, Washington, D. C. Price 10 cents

Going Somewhere?

Issued by USO Division, National Board, Y.W.C.A.,
600 Lexington Avenue, New York City. The
Womans Press, New York City. 50 for $1.25

Handbook for the U. S. Citizens Service Corps.
November 1942.

OCD Publication 3601. United States Ollice of
Civilian Defense, Washington, D. C.

Manual for Executives and Community Activity Com-
mittees. 1943
Published by the General Boards of Mutual Im-

provement. Associations of the Church _of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City, Utah

New Tools for Learning. Revised, May 1943

Radio, recordings, movies, pamphlets, study guides.
New Tools for Learning, 7 West 16th Street, New

York 11, N. Y.
Preventing Wartime Delinquency, by Lois Sager

Reprinted for distribution among volunteer and pro-
fessional workers of Dallas by the Dallas Counc1l
of Social Agencies, Dallas, Texas

Professional Education for Social Welfare Services in
Wartime

American Association of Schools of Social Work,
4200 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.

The United States Junior Citizens Service Corps

OCD Publication 3623. Issued by the U. S. Oflice of
Civilian Defense in cooperation with Children’s
Bureau; U. S. Ollice of Education; Extension Ser-
vice, U. S. Department of Agriculture and Federal
Agency. For sale by the Superintendent of Docu-
ments, U. S. Government Printing Oflice, Wash-
ington, D. C. Price 5 cents

474 FOR THE RECORD . .

RECREATION FOR
WAR WORKERS . . .

’1‘HIS booklet, designed to serve as a guide for

workers in charge of recreation in war plants, is
a particularly timely publication. It attempts to sug-
.gest in very simple terms the ways in which recrea-
tion can help workers in war plants get the most out
of their leisure time and find personal satisfactions
in spite of their heavy responsibilities and demanding
jobs.

Because community recreation workers have so
definite a responsibility for providing facilities and
activities, suggestions are offered in the booklet which
will be of interest to municipal recreation depart-
ments and private groups providing recreation.

The chapter headings cover such subjects‘as Special
Problems in Wartime Industrial Recreation; Activi-
ties; Planning and Starting the Program; The Com-
munity and the War Worker; Organization and Ad-
ministration of the Plant Program.

Appendices offer constitutions and by-laws of em-
ployees activities associations and athletic associa-
tions, a form for an industrial recreation interest
survey, a number of sample programs, and similar
information.

Order your copies at 35 cents each
from the

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York 10, N. Y.

Curtain Going Up!
(Continued from page 434)

Teacher Association brought Clare Tree Major’s
Children’s Theater to Richmond and the Junior
League produced its plays, junior audiences were
receptive to a medium which they had learned to

love.

After a while the teen age group which had pro-
duced these first plays grew up, but each of them
took with him some of the beauty and fun and
much that he had learned in the early days at the
Children’s Theater.

Last summer another group made its appear-
ance. Some of them have fathers and aunts and
cousins who were the heroes and heroines of that
early theater of fifteen years ago. And they ap-
peared quite naturally through a project sponsored
by the Community Recreation Association as a
climax to its summer program of “Fun at Home.”
Looking about for an activity which would inter-
est the teen age members of neighborhood “Fun
at Home” clubs and would utilize the storytelling,
music, arts and crafts which they had enjoyed in
an intensive five-week program, the Community

 

Recreation Association decided to produce a chil—
dren’s play assisted by the Parent-Teacher Asso-
ciations, the Musicians’ Club of Richmond, the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, and the Junior
League, and sponsored by Miller and Rhoads.
And when they began to work, there it was, the
Children’s Theater reborn in its original and nat-
ural form—teen age boys and girls producing fairy
tales for the children who were reading them.

Nothing was missing, the twelve princesses were
beautiful and the twelve princes were handsome.
The Beautiful Lady materialized out of thin air
and a magenta spotlight, and the hero spent much
of his time being invisible to the rest of the cast.
The six maids who attended the princesses danced
and sang to their hearts’ content and the Duke was
sufficiently blustering while the Duchess was suf-
ficiently charming. Comedy was furnished by
Toodles, the Chamberlain, and there was, of course,

an enchanting grotesque called the Keeper of the
Keys.

For the Record . . .
(Continued from page 455)

The Recreation Commission was set up to include
five members and the director’s position was classi-
fied under the Civil Service Commission.

In December the city manager appointed to the
Recreation Commission Mrs. Frances Lanyon, Dr.
Charles F emish, Kenneth Conn, John Lindsey,
and Harold Flannery. At its initial meeting in
December the commission elected Dr. Fernish
president.

Provision for the leadership necessary to operate
the department was taken care of by the City
Council on January 4 of this year by ordinance
2893 which empowered the city manager to employ
recreational leaders from an approved list certified
by the Civil Service Commission. A recreation de-
partment stenographer position was created by
ordinance 2894 on the same date and this position
is to be filled from the Civil Service eligible list.

In January the Recreation Commission ap-
proved plans submitted by the director for the
operation of nine year—round playgrounds located
strategically throughout the city.

The San Jose program will be a cooperative one
which the city and the school department partici-
pating actively from both a personnel and facility
viewpoint.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

How to Keep Fit and Like It

By Arthur H. Steinhaus, Ph.D., M.P.E., Alma H. Haw-
kins, A.M., Lt. Comdr. Charles D. Giauque, USNR,
Edward C. Thomas, B.S. Consolidated Book Publish-
ers, Inc. George Williams College, 5315 Drexel Ave.,
Chicago, Ill. $.25.

IT REALLY WILL BE FUN to keep fit if you follow the sug-
gestions in this attractively illustrated booklet which,
the author tells us, is a manual for civilians and a plan
for a community approach to physical fitness. The ma—
terial answers three questions: How {it are you?; How
can you become more fit?; and Have you become as fit

as you should be?

What Makes lt Tick?

By Katharine Britton. Houghton Mifiiin Company, Bos-
ton. $2.50. -

HIS BOOK has the answers to many Of the questions

which children ask. Starting with how a clock (and
incidentally most mechanical toys) works, the book goes
on to elevators, kites, gliders, radios, and many other
articles. The information given under each subject has
been carefully checked for scientific accuracy but is pre—
sented in such a way that a young boy can readily under-

stand it. I

Keene Cement Cratt

By 0. Arnold Radtke. The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee. $2.00.

NEW USES FOR A MATERIAL the possibilities of which
have not been sufficiently explored are presented in
this book for the amateur craftsman. Directions are
given for a number of small projects such as penholders,
ash trays and vases, all of which can be made in a wide
variety Of attractive color combinations.

Weaving on a Card Loom

By Mary M. Atwater. Universal Handicrafts Service,
Inc., 1267 Sixth Avenue, New York. $1.00.

. VERY ANCIENT, interesting, and ingenious little craft
with many possibilities is described in this booklet.
Equipment consists of a set Of square cards or tablets
with holes in the corners. A small shuttle may be used
as a convenience but it is not a requirement. A variety
of materials may be used, such as rug yarns, floss, and
crochet and knitting cottons. Among the articles which
may be made are belts and girdles, handles for bags,
straps for sandals, pack straps, and similar articles.

Music in American Schools

By James L. Mursell. Silver Burdett Company, New
York. $2.60.

HIS, THE FOURTH of Mr. Mursell’s books on principles

and psychology of music education, reiterates his basic
beliefs regarding the values of music, methods of teach-
ing, and similar matters.

NOVEMBER 1943

Art and Materials for the Schools

By Sibyl Browne, in collaboration with Ethel Tyrrell,
Gertrude M. Albbihl, Clarice Evens, and others. Pro-
gressive Education Association, 221 West 57th Street,
New York 19. $1.25.

RECREATION WORKERS will find help in this book for
their arts and crafts programs which suggests activi-
ties tO aid the war and peace. Directions are given for a
number of projects under such headings as map making;
puppetry; dyeing, painting, and printing with natural
materials; weaving and rug making; carving wood,
plaster and stone; posters, handlbills, and booklets; and
pottery and modeling. Interesting background material
accompanies the instructions for making various articles.

Physical Fitness for Girls

By Rosalind Cassidy, Ed.D. and Hilda Clute Kozman,
Ph.D. A. S. Barnes and Company, 67 West 44th
Street, New York 18. $2.00.

HE CONTRIBUTIONS of physical education to war-peace

programs in secondary schools are outlined in this
book designed as a textbook for students preparing to
teach physical education in the secondary schools and as
an aid to teachers who want to align their programs to
present day needs. The prOgram presented is based on
fundamental concepts concerning education in a demo-
cracy and is especially suggested for use in the present
crisis to help girls prepare for their tasks as citizens. It
furnishes a social and cultural background for the fitness
program while presenting the practical content of which
is necessary. Its underlying philosophy is the union Of
mind and body for effective citizenship.

The book is supplemented by a physical fitness work-
book entitled “Fitness First,” written to help the high
school girls’ physical education teacher and to interest the
girl herself. Price is 60 cents.

Coming Down the Wye

By Robert Gi'bbings. E. P. Dutton and Company, Inc.,
New York. $3.00.

To WRITE A BOOK about the Wye, Robert Gibbings spent
two years observing and studying this stream, called
by those who love it the most beautiful, romantic, and
legend—haunted river in either England or Wales. His
adventures are recorded in the book, and the legends and
traditions he unearthed make delightful reading. The
volume is illustrated with the author’s own engravings.

Stephen Foster

Arranged and edited by Jeffrey Marlowe. Boston Music
Company, 116 Boylston Street, Boston. $2.00.

FIFTEEN FAVORITE SONGS by America’s best loved master

of melody are included in this collection, which also
contains a reproduction of the Howard Chandler Christy
portrait of Stephen Foster which hangs in the “Old
Kentucky Home” at Bardstown, Kentucky.

475

476 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Radio Workshop Plays.

By James M. Morris. The H. W. Wilson Company,
New York. $3.00.

Twenty-six royalty-free plays, eleven of them new, are
included in this revised and enlarged edition of plays
suitable for broadcasting by high school and college
students. Instructions for production, sound effects, t1m-

ing, and similar details accompany each play.

Health Can Be Fun.

Words and pictures by Munro Leaf. Frederick A.
Stokes Company, Philadelphia. $1.35.

The delightful sketches in this book and Mr. Leaf’s
gift of presenting his subject matter .should go far to
help remove the “curse” from the eating of vegetables,
brushing of teeth, and other health measures which most
children seem to be born hating.

P.E.A. Service Center Pamphlets.

Progressive Education Association, 221 West 57th
Street, New York. Each $.25.

In response to many requests for material which will
help in the day-to-day problems of classroom teachers,
the Progressive Education Association’s Service Center
has prepared a series of pamphlets designed to answer
the questions: “How do I do it ?” “What materials do I
use?” “Where can I go for help?” “How does It work
out?” Of special interest to recreation workers are
Pamphlet l—The Community: A Laboratory (School
and' Community Work Together at Glencoe, Illinois);
Pamphlet 4—Teaching Music in the Elementary School;
Pamphlet 6—Youth Has a Part to Play (167 Examples
of Youth Service to the Community); Pamphlet _8—-
American Folk Song and Folk Lore (A Regional Biibli-

ography) .

Simplified Home Sewing.

By Helen Hall. Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York.
$2.75.

This volume makes available tO the average beginner
the modern, Up-to-the-minute methods and short cuts
that professionals use. The simplified methods presented
can easily be learned through application and practIce.
They will make home sewing an interesting and profitable
hobby.

Figure Drawing for All Its Worth.

By Andrew Loomis. The Viking Press, New York
City. $3.95.

This illustrated book deals with the techniques of
drawing the human figure. Mr. Loomis dedicates his
book to the young artist who hopes to make drawing his
means of livelihood and he offers many practical sug-
gestions.

Filet Crochet Lace—- How to Make It.

By Margaret Techy. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $2.50.

A combination of instructions for beginners and ad-
vanced workers, this book contains five lessons for be-
ginners and nine for more advanced workers, patterns,
and original designs. There are over fifty photographs
showing finished work and a number of diagrams.

The American School and University.

American School Publishing Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. $2.50.

The Fifteenth Annual Edition (1943) of the Yearbook
is devoted to the design, construction, equipment, utiliza-
tion, and maintenance of educational buildings and
grounds. Recreation workers will be especially interested
in Section I—Schools for Tomorrow; Section IV—
Landscaping; and Section V—Physical Education and

Athletics.

Home Canning in Wartime.

By Elsie Clarke. World Publishing Company, 2231
West 110th Street, Cleveland, Ohio. $.49.

This is a practical victory guide to victory gardens.
The principles underlying successful canning are pre-
sented and clear concise directions are given for canning,
preserving, pickling, and drying.

Pierre Pidgeon.

By Lee Kingman. Houghton Mifflin Company, 2
Park Street, Boston, Massachusetts. $2.00.

The story of a little French-Canadian boy who, above
all things, liked to build ship models. The illustrations in
the book will make it particularly interesting to the young
children to whom it’s addressed.

Songs From the Veld.

{Ears Josef Marais. G. Schirmer, Inc., New York.

These fourteen songs from South Africa represent a
collection of unusual folk music with a flavor entirely its

own. This is the iirst time these songs have appeared in
English.

Exploring Music.

By Vincent Jones, Ph.D. and Bertha Wingert Bailey,
M.A. C. C. Birchard and Company, Boston. $1.68.

In this volume the authors have provided a unique text
in music theory. The book provides for the interested
amateur and the high school or junior college student a
course of study in music techniques, which from the be-
ginning are integrated.

For Love of Country—Stories of Young Patriots.

Selected by Wilhelmina Harper. Illustrated by VVil-
fred Jones. E. P. Dutton~& Company, Inc. $2.00.

Much care and thought have gone into the assembling
of these stories of young patriots—children who have
played some part in the various crises of our country’s
history. Each story is a thrilling adventure, full of the
courage and daring which helped make this country great.

 

 

Oiiicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTII, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston. Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRs. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
{5: C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

REDERICK M. WARnURo, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

. WWWWWWWWKWKHWQKW

5’0! your waist/rats Program

Check this list of helpful Christmas aids and send in your orders today

The Christmas Book, by Marguerite Ickis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $.50

A delightfully illustrated booklet presenting old and new material for family or
group use. Read about Christmas customs in the Old World, the origin of the
Christmas tree,,and the ageless spirit of medieval carols. Among other features
are a Christmas party. playlet for children, community festival, holiday music,
suggestions for decorations and refreshments. Included is a reprint of the famous

editorial, “Is There a Santa Claus?”

Christmas Novelties for Everyone, by Marguerite Ickis. . . . . . . . . .10

Directions for Christmas handcraft—ornaments, cards, decorations, gifts, packages, .

table scenes, candle holders, stained glass windows, cutouts. Reprinted from
RECREATION, November 1942

Christmas Carols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$.80 per 100, $8.00 per 1,000

Leaflet containing 10 well beloved carols, words only

Thanksgiving and Christmas Decorations from Garden and
Woods, byJuliaA-Rosers (MP284) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

A Community Christmas Party (MP 295) . . , , , . . , . . . . . .15

A complete party plan including suggested invitations, decorations, refreshments,
music, games, stunts, and contests

APolarChristmasParty............................ .10

A party with a North Pole setting. Reprinted from RECREATION, November 1941

“DecktheHalls”..............  .10

A Christmas party for wartimes. Reprinted from RECREATION, November 1943

Suggestions for’Novel Christmas Cards (MP 290) . . . . . . . . . . .05
f Make Your Own Christmas Tree Ornaments (MP 257) . . . . . . . .10

A Christmas Carnival in Carols and Pantomimes (MP 296) . . . . .10

', A carnival centering around five or more carols which lend themselves to panto-
' miming, production notes included

ChristmasKaleidoscop'e (MB95)  Free

A festival for those who have a large number of children trained in various
national dances and who wish to use them in a program with continuity

A Candle Lighting Service (MB 288). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Free
Christmas Customs and Legends Around the World (MP 255) . .10

I" A pantomime based on folk customs

A Few References on Christmas Customs and Legends Around
the World  Free

ChristmasMusic  .05
A list prepared as source material for communities and groups

StoriesofChristmasCarols (MP60)  .15

5‘ NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
*1: 315 FOURTH AVENUE . . . NEW YORK 10, NEW YORK

 

 

