Keep Civilization Now

KEEP CIVILIZATION IN WARTIME.

Men's souls are tried. Men under great strain, under great loneliness and weariness,
wonder whether it is worth while to go on.

In these times it is worth while to remember that through the centuries men with all
their failures have under God built up a civilization. a world in which there are

homes, churches, neighborhood recreation centers; that men have developed music,
drama, art, sports.

When the American boy goes into the jungle, to the desert, under the seas, we want
him to keep as much of music and comradeship and joy as he can.

If the American boy is called upon to stay home and risk his life every day in a powder
factory, again we want him to keep as much of life as he can.

There is help in having a glimpse of Mt. Olympus each day. Joy in beauty must not

be lost for a single day. The inner light must be kept. And here recreation
comes in.

The football and basketball coach will tell you the importance of timing, of a sense
of rhythm, of keeping from becoming tense. When you keep yourself in condi-
tion so that you can lose yourself, forget yourself, swing into the play, then you
have joy in the game, then you are effective. Age without reference to years is
when you go lumbering, slogging along. Youth without reference to years is
where the spirit of song is kept, where the feet want to dance even if they can’t.
where every atom of the being is alive, where there is not tenseness and stiffness.

‘It is the task of the recreation worker to help men and women in these times to keep
from_going tense, stale, old, to help them keep young.

1In 1918 the young men of America came swinging through France. They were
I going places.

In 1943 our boys are swinging into North Africa, China, India, Burma. They know
I they are going to win. There's a faith, a power in every atom of their being.

 

On the home front can we do less? There is a dirty job to be done but we as a people
will keep up a measure of life, of culture, of civilization each day in our free

hours and even in our free minutes.
I

l
I

We shall keep civilization now.

,And here is a special responsibility of the recreation leader.

WOW

 

FEBRUARY I943

 

597

February

I
e
.m
T.
"m
0
u.
w
.m
1...
Pr.
:0
n
a
.1
”
”
m
’
.u
I
0
p
a
C
n
n
m
:1
r
P.
n
.0
n
a:
I.
m
m
0
C
«R
m
P.
to:
.m
a
0
B
.uJ
m
r.
H
0
C

 

Miss Bailey Meets

A Time-and-a- l-lalf Volunteer

 

Photo by W. Z. Wade, Lancaster, Pa., Sunday News

'. . . the way the army came +0 her village and
the way the village opened up to the army.”

By GERTRUDE SPRINGER

ISS BAILEY thought she was well past being
‘ M surprised by anything. But she was wrong.

Nothing ever surprised her more than the
way the army came to her village and the way the
village opened up to the army.

With its elm-shaded Main Street dominated by
three austere white churches it was about as un-
martial a village as one could imagine. For gener-
ations its grey shingled houses had turned uncom-
municative faces on the world. If human joys and
sorrows occurred, as they did, it was behind drawn
blinds. Of course the inevitable grapevine oper-
ated, so if you hung around the postofhce at mail
time or lingered at the drugstore when the news-
papers caine in, you knew pretty well what was
going on. But the general rule of decorum was,
“You stay in your house and I’ll stay in mine.”

Although the army came suddenly there had
been preliminary warnings. Men from the big

training camp, a dozen
miles away, sometimes
drifted along Main Street
no one knew why.
There wasn’t a thing for
them to do after the drug-
store closed at nine
o’clock. A few young girls
signed up for the USO
dances over at the county
seat, not without some
disapproval from their
more conservative elders.
Half a dozen families had
other people’s sons from
the big camp for Sunday
dinner, reporting after-
ward that “you couldn’t
ask for nicer boys.” But
in general the village
stayed in its houses.

 

Then, one early sum—
mer day, the grapevine
began to hum. The woods behind Thompson’s
place were being cleared for a new camp, maybe
2,000 men, maybe 20,000. Over the other side of
the cove a bigger camp was going in—you could
see the tents from the road back of Hamer’s
garage. “They say there’s an outpost, whatever
that is, in the old Wilson place out on the point.
You can’t even drive in there any more.” You
could hear anything, and you did.

Almost overnight the color and the tempo of the
village changed. Jeeps and military trucks crowded
the parking places. After six o’clock the soda
fountain at the drugstore was mobbed. Sunday
papers were sold out before mild-mannered ladies
could get up to the counter. Every evening men
in khaki held down the benches in the little park
by the postoflice, to the inadequately concealed in—
terest of young girls. Just scratch a soldier, in the
way of conversation, and you got: “There doesn’t
seem to be much to do in this town.” And there
wasn’t.

Of course Miss Bailey knew that all this had
been happening in small towns all over the country,
and she knew, too, how they had risen to what

, ' 599

600 A TIME-AND-A-HALF VOLUNTEER

social workers call “a challenge
and an oplmrtunity.” But she
was curious to see how her own
right little, tight little village
would react. She knew that in
principle the situation should be coped with by
going community agencies, but to the best of her
knowledge there were no local agencies here even
remotely qualilied for the kind of organization that
seemed called for.

Miss Bailey, long exposed to the virtues of or-
ganization. believed that that would and should be
the first step. Again she was wrong. The village
didn't organize; it hasn’t organized yet. But now,
without beneht of anything but what you might
call backdoor cooperation, there’s something for a
soldier to do in this town, and a quality of simple,
friendly helpfulness that the soldiers say rates a
double star.

The beginning was slow. Miss Bailey first be-
came aware of it when she saw a notice in the
drugstore asking for magazines and towels for the
use of soldiers at the community house. Now this
community house was not exactly what its name
implied, at least in Miss Bailey’s terminology. An
old schoolhouse, reached only by a sandy unpaved
road, it had stood unused for years until the WPA
made it a project. For the army to be using the
community house was news indeed.

Dutifully Miss Bailey carried her bundles of
not-tqo-old magazines and not-too-worn bath
towels up to the community house. Showers were
being rigged and some card tables were set up,
but no one knew much about what was going on.
It just just seemed to be happening with no one
admitting to any responsibility. But in the eve-
nings, Miss Bailey noticed, the usually dark build-
ing was lighted and men in uniform were coming
and going up the steep sandy road.

The next intimation came at church when the
minister asked for donations for the Saturday night
suppers that the ladies were arranging for the sol—
diers. Soon after that the grapevine brought word
that the summer people were opening their estates
to groups of men for afternoons of their own daily
round of swimming, sailing,
tennis and picnics. Miss Bailey
made a few discreet inquiries
about that particular activity.
The soldiers liked it, no ques-
tion about that. It was fun to
see how the other half lived,
and it gave you something to

"A Time-and-a-Halt Volunteer" is
reprinted from the October I942
issue of Survey Midmonthly by
permission of the publishers.

"NowI more than ever. volunteer work
can be a challenge and an adventure in
contentment. Working as a responsi-
ble member of the community. you will
know that you are doing your part to
defend the home front and to make a
better life possible for all the people."

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
 

write home about. But it w
reported that one of the men 11
startled his amiable hostess
asking if he could have a h
bath, and another by asking
he could come back next week and have the use
the laundry for a couple of hours.

So far, “doing something for the boys" was
unlike what Miss Bailey had observed elsewh
And then one morning there was a new notice
in the postofiice: “The men at the camp need 111
rors, wire hangers, washtubs and flat irons. PIC:
leave all you can spare at the drugstore.”

It was noon the next day before Miss Bailey 5
around with her own offering of a slightly 0;
mirror and an armful of hangers. She found n
druggist completely snowed under. Hangers w
almost in his hair. “Put your stuff any place y
can find,” he barked. “That woman asked to l ‘
things left here. How was I to know it would
like this? What’s the matter with the army th
doesn’t provide this stuff?”

It took Miss Bailey a long time to catch up
“that woman”; not so long to discover what
the matter with the army. These new camps
outposts were, it seemed, doing a specialized job
“tough” training under conditions as primitive .
the woods in which their tents were pitched. Wi
orders changing overnight, laundry, for examp
became a major problem. A man could leave 11
bundle in town today and be on his way to Shan
La tomorrow. But if an outfit had a tub and
iron it was sitting pretty. As for mirrors, th
weren’t any. “And just you try shaving with
candle and no mirror.”

“That woman” was tinally run down at, of
places, an all-day country auction where the chur
ladies were turning an honest dollar by sell'
coffee and sandwiches to such auction tyros as 1
not brought their own lunch. The ladies I -
promised her any sandwiches unsold at the end
the day and she had come to get them to take
men in an outpost so isolated that supplies did 1
always get through. “But my car is light and c
make it,” said “that woman,” busily stowing san
wiches in a battered hat b
“And good hearty homem
sandwiches are always a Go
send.”

Miss Bailey had to use
her wiles to capture “th
woman” for even an hour
She had a dozen urgent thing

A TIME-AND-A-HALF VOLUNTEER 601

to do: to pick up and deliver the latest grist of
mirrors and flat irons; to “see a man” about dig-
ging potatoes for the crippled grandmother of a
local solider, now far away, whose letter had re-
flected liis deep anxiety about this particular
chore. “He’ll be a better soldier when he knows
those potatoes are in the cellar.” She had to see
the chaplain at the camp about a boy whom she
had encountered last night wandering around
sobbing with homesickness. “It gets them down,
homesickness. They just walk the streets, looking
at the lights in the houses, dreading to go back to
their dark tents. But this chaplain is really good.
He knows just what to say.” And, most important,
she had to meet a train bringing a girl from a
distant state to marry her man, His leave had been
postponed suddenly and he had appealed to the
woman for help. She had found a room for the
girl, begged flowers from a neighbor’s garden to
adorn it, and had promised to meet the train and
I explain. “So you see I haven’t much time. What
| is it I can tell you?”

“That woman” didn’t exactly know how
she had gotten started in what was in
effect a time-and—a-half job. She was still
a little surprised at herself. “I suppose it
began one day when a soldier stopped at
my gate and asked if I knew where he
1 could get a hot bath. The only possible
place would be in someone’s house, and it
, might as well be mine. The next day two of his
friends turned up, hopefully, and the day after that
three more with bundles asking for the use of a
washtub in the back yard.

“After that, one thing just naturally led to an-
other. I live alone so that no one was inconveni-
enced, but it got a bit thick, even for me. So I
did a little buzzing around and that’s the way the
showers got into the community house. They’ve
been a great relief to my bathroom.”

“But the washtubs and things going directly
into the camps? Didn’t the colonel have something
to say?”

“Of course. Plenty. He was crazy about them.
He knew better than anyone how greatly they
were needed, but he himself couldn’t go around

begging, and I could.”

“Do the notices in the postoflice and drugstore
bring enough?”

“Mercy, no. There’s no such thing as enough.
But I just go around and ring doorbells. Most
anyone will give up a mirror if he’s asked, or a
bundle of clean rags. The rags those men use!

UNITED

’  “‘7” until I can produce a barber who will

 

Once in awhile I get turned down, but people
really are nice you know.”

Yes, Miss Bailey knew.

“About the toughest thing I’ve had to find were
pieces of old carpet for men quartered in a garage
out the other end of- nowhere. I took them some
odd stuff one day but what they most wanted was
a spot or two of covering on that damp cement
floor. I rang half the doorbells in town, but noth-
ing doing. Then one morning in the grocery store
I heard a perfectly strange woman say she had to
hurry to get her old stair carpet up before the new
one came. ’Well! I fastened right- on. She’d had
other ideas, but she was a good sport and by night
the old carpet was cut up into rugs and not a man
in that garage had to set his bare feet on cold
cement.”

“Of all the things that are going on in the vil—
lage what do you think means most to the men?”

“Well, if you’d ask the colonel,” the woman’s
clear blue eyes twinkled, “I’m sure he’d say the
church suppers, the summer parties, and
the Sunday dinners. But as you’re asking
me, I’d say washtubs and flatirons. How-
ever, I won’t feel that I’ve done a real job

work evenings and Sundays.”
“A barber!” exclaimed Miss Bailey,

-.”

“but surely the army provides . . .

“Certainly, in the big camps.‘ But not
in the outposts. Those men must catch a haircut
where they find it, and they can’t possibly get to
town before six o’clock when the barber shuts up.
You must know what an awful inferiority complex
men get from hair over their collars. It dOes some—
thing to their morale.” '

Miss Bailey longed to pursue the relationship
of haircuts to morale. But she had another ques-
tion and “that woman” was getting fidgety.

“As you say, people do things if they are asked.
Then why don’t you organize this work a little——
get a local committee going. Isn’t there more to

this than one woman can do ?”

“That woman” hesitated a moment before she
answered “Perhaps there is. But would a com-
mittee be the answer? I’ve been on committees,
and it seems to me that they slow the one person
who does the work anyway. For the community
house, for the Friday night dances, for the church
suppers, committees are hne. But I’ve never seen
a committee that would go out and ring doorbells
and beg for rags and old carpet. They’d appoint

(Continued on page 646)

"I Was Your Bashfu! Barefoot Beau . . ."

"You wrote on my slate, 'I love you so.’
When we were a couple of kids

EMEMBER WHEN you carved initials in a heart
R on the big beech tree? And sometimes you
carried her books home from school or
dropped in to see her in the evening, when you
just happened to be walking by—dressed in your

Sunday best!

Then on Valentine’s Day you slipped an ex-
travagant lacy card into the classroom mail box.
carefully burying your head in a book when she
opened it. Your face turned a hopeless red.

Teacher always presided over the valentine mail
box like a justice of the Supreme Court. She care-
fully preceded the annual ceremony with a little

talk on loving kindness.

Even now, valentines bring back many memories
of the old village school house, so what’s more ap-
propriate for an old-fashioned Valentine’s Day
than a classroom party, steeped in the spirit of
barefoot beaux and calico queens?

-The setting should be an old—fashioned school-
room. Whether it is a small party in a home or

or church, or a large service
men’s party in a social hall, the
same atmosphere can be pro-
duced with a few simple prop-
erties. Let the children help
plan the party and decorate,
since they are well acquainted
with the schoolroom.

\Vooden benches are the
most important equipment,
plus any slanted school desks
you can lay your hands on. If
they’re slightly scarred from
the wear of years in the class-
room, so much the better. For
the corners high stools are ap-
propriate.

Put pencils and paper on
each desk for the written games,
and perhaps the guests will
want to indulge in such favor-
ite schoolroom occupations as
drawing, pictures of teacher or
playing tick-tack-toe.

At one end of the room place

602

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

   
    
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
   
 
   
   
 
 

teacher’s desk, replete with dictionary and attend-
ance sheet. Assorted textbooks and a few report
cards will add reality! Beside the desk should
reign the ,valentine mail box, an ordinary card-
board carton glorified with white crepe paper and
red hearts.

A black board is a necessity of course. “Today's
Quotation” could be written carefully at the t0p.
then a few scribbled fractions, and down at the
bottom an unflattering caricature or two!

Even the windows will add to the atmosphere if
you paste big red hearts on them with scotch tape.
Any extra properties such as slates and sponges
are never amiss.

For the rest of the decorations use valentines of
every kind and description. Cover up the barren
spots, decorate the corners, hang a veritable deluge
of valentines all around the room. Some of the
valentines could be made especially for the occa-
sion—some funny and some serious. If you leave
paper, pastepot and shears around, you can count
on the “early” pupils adding some of their own
creations to the walls.

The final touch of authenticity comes with t1
costumed characters who ap-
pear on the scene. Members 0
your committee could take th
important roles, and if y01
have any costumes left over
place them in an inviting opei
chest or trunk where the mor
enthusiastic guests can fint
them.

Most important character i.
the teacher. Since she’ll be th
guiding light of the party, sh
should. know how to direc
games. Array her in a high
collared dress, with hair pullet

U‘
a.)
O
r
'5
n:
U‘
C
:3
9
O»
E?
52..
§.
('3
f"

spectacles rest gently on th
end of her nose.

Valentine’s Day at School
In keeping with the timeles

room, start your guests on
with a talking mixer. Each
person is ushered into the class-

  
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 

om and given a slip of paper on which is writ-
some topic. He must introduce himself to ten
' erent persons, exchanging names and greetings.
the tenth person is not already conversing with
meone, the new guest immediately-launches into
speech upon his topic, His newfound partner
es likewise, both talking just as fast as they can
the same time! ‘

The t0pics, needless to say, are as foolish as you
n make them. Perhaps “Qualifications of a
odel mother—in-law,” “My first valentine,” “My
ndcrgarten hero or heroine,” “How to be happy
ough married.” and “Shall the preacher kiss the
ide ?”

By the time the partners have finally run dry

wild ideas and have laughed themselves silly,
ey should be good friends.

Heart Walk. The teacher then calls the class to
der, and after a few words of greeting starts the
rty off with a relay race. Teams of five or six
ch form at one end of the room. Equipped with
0 large red cardboard hearts, the first runner
each team starts out. He places the first heart
the floor in front of him, steps on it with one
t while he places the second heart ahead of him.
en he steps on the second heart while moving
- first heart to the front. Thus he journeys down
i the goal and back, then hands his hearts to the
xt person in line. Balancing on one foot while
picking up a heart and
\ I

$ ,Q-U'L’ ing a party.
Misspelling Bee. While
the lines are still in a
lled incorrectly are accepted. Anyone _who dares
spell a word the right way is immediately out of

game. '
h line in succession. As each one finishes his
n he goes to the end of his line and the next
son heads the team. If some hapless soul

plunking it down again

M’s
semblance of order, the
aybe you’ll want to keep the same short relay
uld mistakenly spell a word correctly he sits

  
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
 

makes for comical prog-
ress, a highly recom-
mended method of start-
her organizes a spelling bee—but not the usual
ve-racking variety. Indeed, this should be the
001 boy’s dream of heaven because only words
5 rather than counting off into two long ones.
petition is keener with small teams.
I‘he,teacher pops a word at the first person in

“I WAS YOUR BASHFUL BAREFOOT BEAU. . .” 603

down and the word goes to the contestant in the
next line.

Accept phonetic spellings only. These may vary
considerably so don’t hold your pupils to any rigid
rules. As long as

«Greet-(you,- fart-w!» the finished prod-
0‘" net sounds like
f {L 2 the original word,

J

the contestant
may remain
standing. Inci-
dentally, since
people can gen—
erally spell an in-
finite number of
words incorrect-
ly, you’ll proba-
bly have to call a

halt to. the bee instead of letting it continue to
its end.

Start with simple words and gradually increase
their difiiculty. Keep them going as rapidly as

possible. Following are a few samples to inspire
your imagination:

cat . . . . . . . . .kat dog . . . . . . . . .dawg

hurt . . . . . . .hert fit . . . . . . . . . . .phit

sew . . . . . . . .so worse . . . . . . .wurse

people . . . . .peepul talk . . . . . . . . . tawk

droop . . . . . .drupe paper . . . . . . . paypur

sign . . . . . . .sine - piece . . . . . . . . peese

heart . . . . . . .hart single . . . . . . . singul

build . . . . . . .bild change . . . . . . chainge
sponge . . . . .spunj ceremony, . . . serimoanie
accept . . . . . .axsept action . . . . . . . akshun
receive . . . . .recieve believe . . . . . . beleive

Greet Your Partner. Country dancing is excel-
lent sport for oldsters and young fry alike. One of
the simplest dances to teach your group is “O,
Susanna”——and breathes there a man with soul so

dead he knows not the tune to this one?

(1) I came to Alabama wid my banjo on my knee.
(2) I’m gwan to Louisiana, my true love for to see.
(3) It rained all night de day I left,

De weather it was dry,

De sun so hot I froze to death,

Susanna, don’t you cry.

Chorus: 0, Susanna, 0, don’t you cry for me,
For I’m gwan to Louisiana, wid my banjo on
my knee!

Formation: Single circle, all facing center. If
possible, the guests should be paired off in couples,
the lady on the gentleman’s right.

Action: (1) Ladies walk four steps to center,
and back to place. (2) Men follow suit. (3) Men
face right and women face left, starting grand right

604 “I WAS YOUR BASHFUL BAREFOOT BEAU . . .”

and left. Partners first join right hands, then pass
each other and extend left hands to next persons.
Continue weaving in and out, alternately taking
right and left hands of oncoming persons. Count-
ing the original partner as number one, each per-
son takes the seventh person he meets as his new
partner, They join hands in skating position,
promenade counterclockwise, and come into a sin-
gle circle at the end. Repeat as often as desired,
and don’t forget this is a good mixer.

\Vhile Susanna works out better if everyone has
a partner, extra men or women may join in if they
don’t mind starting out alone. They can always
count on getting a partner in the grand right and
left.

Bride and Groom. For a rest cure after the
dancing, have the class turn to Thespian arts. Re-
member how you used to stage mock weddings,
complete with lace-curtain veils, in the make-be-
lieve days of your youth? \V ell, revert once again
to those days and put on the mock weddings of
famous couples.

Divide the class into small groups and supply
them with pencil and paper for signs (to be pinned
on in lieu of costumes). Each group acts out the

 

On the Calendar . . .

If you need a new February party or celebra-
tion—-something different from the usual St. Val-
entine’s Day, Lincoln’s Birthday, or Washington’s
Birthday themes—consult the February calendar.
You'll discover many famous dates and birthdays
in the second month of the year. Among them are:

FEB. FEB.

1 Victor Herbert 12 “Georgia Day” (Colonists
2 “Groundhog Day” landed in America)

5 Roger Williams 15 Susan B. Anthony

(landed in America) 22 James Russell Lowell

7 Charles Dickens 25 Jose de San Martin

7 Pres. Millard Fillmore (South Am. patriot)

8 John Ruskin 26 \Vm. Cody (Buf’falo Bill)
9 Pres. \\'m. H. Harrison 26 Victor Hugo

10 Charles Lamb 26 ChristOpher Marlowe

11 Thomas A. Edison 27 Henry \V. Longfellow

1] Daniel Boone

Several of these authors or presidents could be
grouped together for a combination party. Or, if
you would like an exclusive “state” party, remem-
ber that seven states were either ceded or admitted
to the Union in February———Arizona, California,
Florida. New Mexico. Ohio, Oregon, and Texas.

 

   
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  

mock wedding of a couple, perhaps brii
Romeo and Juliet up to date or placing M'
and Minnie Mouse in a medieval setting!
their typical language, improvise whatever
tumes you can, and don’t forget an appro
minister.

Jumble the characters into mixed-up co
such as Dagwood and Juliet or Romeo and h
Mouse. Your imagination can run wild with c
binations like these:

Romeo and Minnie Mouse
Dagwood and Juliet
Lancelot and Blondie
Mickey Mouse and Elaine
John Alden and Olive Oyle
Paris and Priscilla

Popeye and Helen of Troy
Hiawatha and Delilah
Napoleon and Minnehaha
Samson and Josephine

\Vhen all is said and vowed and the last
bearer has trotted down the aisle, have the
vote on the best performance. They may ever
mand a repeat performance if the skit is as f
as it should be.

Do You Know? Seated around the benches
desks the class settles down to its geography
son, without which no school day is complete.
fact, just to revive old memories vividly,
teacher has prepared an examination for her
tims. With stubby pencils and yellow pad p
the pupils diligently write down the answers t
following Uquestions, then exchange papers
ferociously grade their neighbor’s effort. Hi
or arithmetic lessons will do just as w
geography—whichever your class prefers.

1. Name three states beginning with A.

2. What is the capital of New York State?

3. \Vhich were the last two states admitted tb
union?

4. What is the largest state?

5. What is the smallest state?

6. What states have double names (two words) ?

7. Name the Great Lakes.

8. Where is the Grand Canyon?

9. What are the two largest branches of the
sippi River?

10. Name the New England states.

11. What is the capital of California?

12. \Vhat is the Sunflower State?

13. Where are the Sugar Bowl, the Rose Bow
Dust Bowl?

14. Name two states beginning with V.

15. Name six mountain ranges in United States.

16. What state has the largest population?

17. \Vhat is the nickname for Texas?

  
  
 
 
  
   
 
    
  

18. On what river is the city of Washington 10cated?
19. What state is nicknamed the Bluegrass State?
20. Where is “ ’Way down East”?

Perhaps,you’d like to see the answers to this
ography quiz yourself:

1. Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas.

2. Albany, not New York City.

3. New Mexico and Arizona, both in 1912.

Texas—265,896 square miles.

Rhode Island—1,300 square miles.

New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New

York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Rhode Island,

South Carolina, South Dakota, West Virginia.

7. Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake

Erie, Lake Ontario.
8. Arizona, not Colorado—although it’s called the
Grand Canyon of the Colorado River.

9. Missouri to the West, Ohio to the East.

10. Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts,

Rhode Island, Connecticut.

11. Sacramento.

12. Kansas.

13. Louisiana, California, and the midwestern plains.

14. Vermont and Virginia.

. Rocky Mountains, Appalachian Mountains, Adiron-
dack Mountains, White Mountains, Green Moun-
tains, Blue Ridge Mountains, Allegheny Mountains,
Sierra Nevadas, Cascades, etc., etc.

16. New York, with a 1940 population of 13,479,142.

17. The Lone Star State.

18. Potomac River.

19. Kentucky.

20. Maine.

PM“?

Billets-Doux. Perhaps your class would rather
mpose telegrams. Using only words starting
nsecutively with the letters V-A-L-E-N-T-I-N-E-S,
e men frame proposals and the girls frame ac-
ptances or refusals. Read aloud first a man’s
legram, then a girl’s. The more unrelated they
re, the better.

Popular Hearts. Returning to a more active
ame, the guests next take to hopping around in a
ircle until a whistle blows. Then they all rush to

f the circle. As in Musical Chairs, the person left
ithout a heart to stand on is out of the game.
Remove one heart after each scramble so that
be number of hearts is always one less than the
iumber of players. If you play this with several
,maller circles. have the winners compete for the
inal victory.

Unveiling the Valentines

With great pomp and ceremony the teacher now
.pproaches the valentine mail box. She is about to
»pen the precious box and distribute its contents.

“I WAS YOUR BASHFUL BAREFOOT BEAU . . .” 605

A little imagination and a pot of paste can turn
the valentine box into a veritable treasure chest.
If the party is a small one where everyone knows
everyone else, see that there’s at least one valen-
tine in the box for each person. Schoolmates can
make their own artistic creations from supplies
left on one of the desks.

Or if it’s a c00perative party where the number
of fellows and girls are equal, have the girls bring
gaily adorned box suppers to be auctioned off as
valentines. The teacher takes them from the box
one at a time and then men bid for the boxes with-
out knowing who packed them. Each girl becomes
the partner of the man who wins her box. The
glory of this method lies in the ease with which
refreshments are taken care of, the committee be—
ing responsible only for a beverage.

If the party is a large one, your valentines can’t
be quite so personalized. You might use them to
match supper partners, however. Print the name
of a song on a red heart for a man and on a white
heart for a girl, so the two will match up ; .or print
the same song title on two red hearts and two
white hearts to make a foursome for refreshments.

Use the good old-fashioned songs of school days:

Let Me Call You Sweetheart When Irish Eyes Are

Down by the Old Mill Stream Smiling

I Want a Girl Just Like the East Side, West Side
Girl That Married Dear Love’s Old Sweet Song
Old Dad Annie Laurie

Silver Threads Among
the Gold

Juanita

Roamin’ in the Gloamin’
My Wild Irish RoSe

Repast During Recess

Now then, what about refreshments? Clever
indeed is the chef who can concoct a hearty repast
these days without running into shortages in stra-
tegic materials.

Baked cinnamon apples will make a hit, espe-
cially if you stuff them with chopped nuts and
dates just before serving. Peel and core the apples,
fill with red cinnamon candies, then baste fre-
quently while they’re baking. They’ll come out
red and tempting, perfect in the valentine color
scheme. ,

For a small party you might serve waldorf salad
with the bright red polished peel left on the apples
for the color. And remember that pretzels are the
perfect complement for apples.

If there is a handy oven, you might produce hot
baking powder biscuits or popovers with a tang of

(Continued on page 648)

An Enlarged Music Service for America

Music Week for I943 will be observed

May 2-8. Begin now to plan for its
additional information
write the National Music Week Commit-
tee, 3|5 Fourth Avenue. New York City.

x inseam 181‘. 1943,
O the work of the Na-
tional Bureau for the
"tdvancement of Music and
'1e National and Inter-Ameri-

all Music \N'eek Committee
Hts transferred to the ofiice of the National Rec-

.ation Association and is being operated under
e Association’s sponsorship.

full use. For

History of the Bureau

Inc- .\ational Bureau for the Advancement of
Music was organized in 1916 “to advance the cause
uf music and to aid in its promotion and develop-
‘ .tent through c00peration with other organiza-
tions and individuals.” For over twenty-six years
‘his organization, under the leadership of Charles
M. Tremaine, has made a notable contribution in
the furthering of musical appreciation, education,
.tnd participation in America.

From the Bureau’s inception its guiding spirit
as been that of aiding, co-
operating with, and serving
other organizations and
groups working in the field
of music. Outstanding
among the Bureau’s ser-
rices during the last twenty-
..ix years are the following:

1. Maintained a center for
a.dvice and information to
nusic organizations. Many

housands of inquiries
uandled annually.

2. Fostered School Band,
' Jrchestra and Choral Con-
ests in schools throughout
'he nation. This work car-

ied on in cooperation with
he Music Educators Na-
tonal Conference has grown
mtil today there are over
50,000 school bands in
\merica. Last year nearly
4,000 certificates were
awarded the contest winners.

3. Had important part
in fostering and spreading
the idea of group piano

606

 

C. M. Tremaine, Director. National Bureau for
the Advancement of Music; Founder and Secre-
tary, National and Inter-American Music Week

    
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
     
   
  
   
  
     
    
   

classes. The Bureau has
plied information on gr
piano instruction to sch
and private music teachers.
over 5,000 different cities _
towns, located in every
in the Union.

4. Organized and conducted National M '
Week, now annually observed in 3,100 commu
ties. National Music Week is carried on by c-
committees, includes every type of musical acti
and is participated in by a wide variety of org
xations, nonmusical as well as musical. It
proved to be a potent stimulus for promoting c
operative community action, is a worth-while
casion in itself, and is frequently the means of i1 '
ating and carrying on music programs through
the year. The National Music Week Commit
itself a cooperative body made up of thirty-t
national agencies, with an honorary committee
the state governors under the honorary chai
ship of the President of
United States.

5. Issued pamphlets
publications on vari
phases of music. About
titles are now carried on
list under various headi
including: Music in Ed
tion, the Church, and .
dustry; Music Week; Pi
Classes; Music on Ra
Vocal, Instrumental, T
peutic, and American ’ J .

Music Services of t
National Recreati 1
Association

Music has always be
important part of the
tional recreation move r
Back in 1916 at the G
Rapids Recreation Cong \
interest in music as a r
of the recreation progr
was given its first

nounced impetus by
presence of Peter Dyk -'
who served as a volunt

AN ENLARGED MUSIC SERVICE FOR AMERICA 607

forces so that the widest

for several years and then
possible utilization of musm

\

as a part. time staff member
of the National Recreation
Association for a period of
years. Mr. Dykema also
served on the faculty of the
National Recreation School
established by the Associa-
tion.

All through World “far
I the Association had an
active part in aiding the de—
velopment of community
singing. After the War a
large music department was
organized to preserve the
values of community music.
Leaders were trained. com-
mittees were organized, mu-
nicipal appropriations were
secured, and music was gen-
erally introduced as a part
of the recreation program.
From 1926 to 1930 special
organization and promotion
work was carried on in rural areas and resulted in
the inclusion of music in many rural schools.

In 1931 Augustus D. Zanzig completed a na-
tion—wide study of music, the findings of which
were published in Music in American Life, an
authoritative book widely used in schools, colleges,
recreation departments and other organizations,
rural and urban.

Following. through the completion of this study,
made possible by the Laura Spellman Rockefeller
Memorial, Mr. Zanzig was made available through
the Association to aid various committees working
on music, national and state organizations, schools,
colleges, as well as recreation departments and
other local community groups. For a period of
years this service was increased by the work of
Siebolt Frieswyck and by the nation-wide services
of George L. Johnson and Clarence Cameron
White, who served the musical needs of colored
groups.

The goal of all of this has
been to bring about a wide-
spread amateur participation
in music. Emphasis has been

 

Augustus D. Za nzig. Director. Music Service.
At present loaned to U.S. Treasury Depart-
ment by the National Recreation Association

FROM I942 RECREATION YEAR BOOK

Recreation departments in |94l reported
the following music activities:

by all sorts'bf -pe0ple could
be brought about.

In furthering music as a
recreation activity the As-
sociation has carried on
special studies, issued bul-
letins, pamphlets, books and
numerous song sheets, and
books of songs. One such
book, Singing America, a
collection of 130 songs and
choruses, is a “comprehen-
sive variety of fresh, last-
ineg lovable music for in-
formal singing in homes,
schools, recreation centers,
clubs and camps.” It has
been widely used. Many of
the songs have been re-
corded and selections are
frequently broadcast over
radio chains.

When the Selective Ser—

vice Act of. September 1940 was passed, the Asso—
ciation gave special attention to music for men in
camps and to music for morale purposes. Mr.
Zanzig was loaned to the War Department and
there served as a consultant, helping to work out
music‘ plans for the Army.

Last fall, at the request of the U. S. Treasury
Department, the Association aided in working out
plans for a wider use of singing among community
groups, both as an aid in selling war bonds and in
maintaining a strong cheerful .spirit under war
strain. Mri Zanzig has been made available to the
Treasury Department 'and now has under way a
comprehensive program of singing based upon the
widespread use of volunteers. Recreation leaders,
music educators, and other community leaders are
cooperating in this patriotic service.

A review of the music services made available
to the country through the National Recreation
Association and through the
National Bureau for the Ad-
vancement of Music shows
a similarity in purpose and
method.

upon training local leaders, g::$ugzus;:gmg ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '  miles It was therefore not sur-
use of the best of each kind 0+her Inshumenigl'érghgs:     :267 n prising when the Board of
of music material, and the opera Groups _ I _ , . . , . . . . _ . H 33 " Directors of the Bureau for
organization of community Symphony Orchestras . . . . . . . . . 78 " (Continued on page 644)

ullere and Better" Books for Servicemen

I943 Victory Book Campaign

HE 1943 vlcroav noon CAMPAlGN has been
Tsteadily gaining momentum since it was of-
hcially opened on January 5th. With only one
month remaining in which to collect much needed
reading matter for the men in service, recreation
leaders are being urged to redouble their efforts in

the campaign.

This year’s drive stresses both the quality and
quantity of book contributions, with emphasis on
the quality. Only fifty per cent of the 11,000,000
books received in last year’s
campaign were suitable for dis-
tribution to the men. In order to
concentrate on usability, the
campaign committee has not an-
nounced an ofhcial quota for this
year, except in general terms
looking towards the collection of
millions of books for the armed
services. The unannounced aim,
of course, will be to reach or ex-
ceed last year’s 10,000,000 quota.

Large sums of money are ap-
propriated for books and maga-
zines for the Army and Navy.
These apprOpriations are suffi-
cient to furnish reading material
for libraries in all permanent
garrisons and overseas bases, but Army camp day
rooms, men on maneuvenduty, on special held
duty, and in combat zones are not covered by the
books and magazines purchased by the govern-
ment. The Victory Book campaign is intended to
supplement reading materials for the benefit of
these 'men.

As a weapon in the war of ideas, a book has a
place to fill in this war. Whether as a source of
morale or information, it is recognized by our
military leaders as part of our lighting equipment.
The purpose of the Victory Book drive is to pro-
vide books, good books—both in physical condi-
tion and readability—for the increasing millions of
our lighting men. The campaign will also supply
books to USO centers outside the camps, to the
American Merchant Marine Library Association,
and finally, in the event of an oversupply, to the

608

oun MEN NEED
* BOOKS *

 

   
  
   
  
  
     
   
   
 
   
 
     
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  

residents of war industry areas where incre :4
population is taxing the facilities of local libraries

The final test for a book to be given to the Vic
tory Book Campaign may be simply stated: “A
book you really want to keep is a good one t
give.”

United Service Organizations, the America
Red Cross, and the American Library Associatio
are the sponsors of the Victory Book drive agai .
this year, but it is in no way restricted to the '
three organizations. The cam-
paign is a huge cooperative ef-
fort in every community t
secure books for the arme
forces.

Some of the ways in which
organized groups like local rec-
reation departments can co-
operate with their local commit-
tees in the collection of book
are:

1. By having a representativ
serving actively on th
local Victory Book Com
mittee.

2. By assisting in book col
lection Operations in th
community.

3. By placing their cars, trucks, and other mea
of transportation at the disposal of the I .
public library or other collection headquarte
for quantity pickups in the community.

4. By publicizing the drive in every recreati
center and at every neighborhood or commu
nity event.

5. By securing the cooperation of children’s an
young people’s groups in collecting the boo

6. By sponsoring Victory Book luncheo
parties, and other social events at which .
least a part of the admission price is a Vic
tory Book.

What Kind of Books?
Conferences held with the Army and Navy spe

cial services officers indicate the need for the fol
lowing kinds of books:

(Continued on page 644)

What About Games in Wartime?

By MARGUERITE ICKIS

PART II

HILDREN can be dis—
C couragingly indefati-

gable, but sometimes
they want quiet games—
or, to be more accurate,
they ,want less strenuous
games than those de-
scribed in Part I of this
article. These quiet games
will both vary the pace of
your program and accommodate the less hardy chil-
dren, but you will find that even in these milder
games the youngsters are likely to seek a wartime
touch—or at least a suggestion of the world crisis.

Blitzkrieg. Each player takes his turn swinging

on a rope over a ground target and dropping bean-
bag bombs on the bull’s-eye. The target is a large
series of concentric circles, like an archery target,
marked on the ground. Each circle has a scoring
value—one point for hitting the outermost circle,
three points for the next, then five points, and
finally ten points for the bull’s-eye.
_ A stout rope and a hardy tree are needed for
the swing which may be either a regular seat-
swing or a single rope with a loop at the end. In
the latter case, the young pilot-bombardier stands
with one foot in the loop and hangs on with his
left hand while he drops “bombs” with the right.

The target could be made of cloth or paper
instead of marking it on the ground. For a more
realistic touch paint the outlines of a factory for
the target, then partially camouflage it with twigs
as though it were a munitions factory hidden in
a forest.

I See a Spy. Try this
game during a rest per-
iod on your hikes. Let
one youngster go ahead
of the party around a
curve in the path or
over the crest of a hill.
There he camouflages
himself with whatever
materials are available
and lies in full sight of

"Shall we let children play war games?"—That
is the question thousands of play leaders.
parents. and teachers are asking today. Last
monthI Miss lckis presented a frank and search-
ing discussion of the problem and suggested
some active wartime games. In this final in-
stallmentI the author lists more quiet games. spy, camouflages himself

 

a designated point. After
five or ten minutes the
rest of the hikers reach the
spot and stand or sit still,
looking for the spy (with-
out moving around), First
person to say, “I see a

H

the next time, -but waits
until everyone has found
the concealed person before moving on.

Such a game may easily lead children to an in-
terest in color. What colors shade into one another
without striking contrast? Why are camouflaged
objects sometimes painted with swirls and wavy
lines? What colors can be seen the farthest and
which ones are hardest to detect from a distance?
And when you go into the puzzling beauties of
the rainbow the children will probably stay right
with you.

Miniature Tanks. Little boys can form their own
tank unit if they have a fleet of large cardboard
boxes. Cut the tops and bottoms off each box,
then work the sides until they form a pliable
tread-like oval. Set the boxes- on their sides, as
shown in the illustration. The drivers crawl into
their box-tanks, the commander signals his com-
rades, and away they go on hands and knees.

The only drawback to this stunt is the poor
visibility for the driver. He must guide his tank
by poking his head out the side or he is quite
liable to crawl into a tree.

Games for Shelters

Games help in the
grim business of pre-
paring children for air
raids or other emergen~
cies. When shelter games
become a natural part
of their daily experi-
ence, they’ll behave like
little Trojans if the real

emergency should come.
Rabbit in the Hole. In

609

610 lVIIAT ABOUT GAMES IN l-VARTIME.’

  
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
      
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

winner. Ideas for t
songs will be found
any community so
book. Those illustr
here are “Pack Up Y 0
Troubles,” “Praise t
Lord and Pass the A
munition," and “K
the Home Fire-s B't
ing."

Navy Quiz. Some
these questions are d
ficult but young 
tars know their n
terminology surprisii
ly well and will prol
bly rattle off the e
swers as fast as you (

Such a scheme can ask the questions.
be very effective since they don’t know t
it gets the youngsters answers. how about
to safety with a minimum of fear and a maximum lesson-game to learn them?
at fun' .Any game with a “home” element could 1. In the Morse code, what is the meaning of th
be substituted for this. To small children home is dots, three dashes, and three dots? (. o . _____.
synonymous with safety and security.

England. during the
blitz. play leaders and
teachers used the game
Follow the Leader to
guide the young children
to shelters, but they re-
named the game Rabbit
in the Hole.

An opening was cut
in the cloth cover
stretched over the en-
trance to the shelter.
The “rabbits” were safe
as soon as they hopped
through the hole—for
children love to fancy
themselves as fat, furry
animals.

 

Can you guess these song titles?

2. What are two meanings of one dot and one dash
Sit-Down Games. Play leaders and parents need the Mom? COde? (-"‘)

a good stock of games which can be played while . What is the rudder of a ship?

sitting down, either for cramped shelters or for What is known as the lubber's point on a comp
such commonplace emergencies as rainy days.
Quizzes or puzzles are the ideal answer to the
problem. Creative games will intrigue older chil-
dren, while the young ones play with paper dolls

How many points on a compass?

What are wherries?

.-

“sense:

. What is general order number 1 for a sentinel

. . p
and puzzles or listen to stories. post'
\Vith Cryptograms turned into spy codes and 8. What is' general order number 5 for a sentinel
jackstones into generals, even quiet games will 1’05”
satisfy a child’s desire to keep up with the excite- 9. \Vhen is it permissible to use the left hand to salu
ment of the times. 10. When may an enlisted man talk in ranks?
Illustrated Songs, The favorite songs of service 11. About how far does a seaplane travel before tak'
men will make a good quiz. Give the players pen— the 3"?
cils and paper and set them to illustrating the 12- What are the Seven Seas?
names Of these songs with various clues and hints, 13. \Vhat does a sailor become when he makes his ti
Each player may either choose his own song or “055mg 0f the equator?
sketch one assigned by the leader. l4. \Vhat does a seaman understand by Davy J
Artistic talent may be lacking in some in- LOCkel’?
stances, but the basic ideas in the pictures will 15. What is the first army and navy bugle call in
give clues to the meanings. mowing?
Drape the Completed ” O 16. What is the last bugle
sketches at one end of the It doesn't matter much to children whether at night?

mom where the players can the routine of a game is old or not—au- _ u n
. . ' ' 17. \Vhat 15 the lucky boy
ponder over the" Identity. thorltles say that some data back to cave

T} - men days—-but to attract interest a game the Navy?
16 person guess‘mi-E the must have a new sound."—Barbara Barnes 18. Which is the starboard Sit
most songs correctly is the in the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin. of a ship?

WHAT ABOUT GAMES IN WARTIME? 611

19. \Vhich is the port side of a ship?

20. What time might it be when the ship’s bell rings
once?

Answers to Navy Quiz. To save long hours of
poking in almanacs, here are the answers to the
above:

1. S O S—ship in distress, send help. (Officially there
is no exact meaning such as “Save our ship.” The
letters were chosen simply because they are dis-
tinctive and easy to transmit.)

2. The letter A; an error.

. Mechanism for steering a boat or ship.

4. A vertical line drawn on the inside of the bowl of
the compass to correspond to the vessel’s head. The
point of the compass coinciding with the line shows
the direction of the ship.

5. Thirty-two.

6. Light, handy boats for ofiicers’ use. Not furnished

, with sails but they can be
pulled by one man.

7. Take charge of this post
and all government prop-
erty in view.

8. Quit post only when pro-
perly relieved.

9. Only when the right hand
is engaged.

10. Never.

11. About 100 yards.

12. North Atlantic, South At-
lantic, North Pacific, South
Pacific, Arctic, Antarctic,
Indian Ocean.

13. A guest of King Neptune.

14. The {bottom of the ocean,
last resting place.

15. Reveille.

16. Taps.

17. The bag where all unclaimed clothes, bags, ham-
mocks are kept.

18. Right side.

19. Left side.

20. 12:30 A. M. or P. M.; 4 :30 A. M. or P. M.; 8:30 A. M.
or P. M.

be

Jacks in the Army. A good game of Jacks in the
Army will keep a small group of youngsters calmed
own to a reasonable roar as they try their hands
t this new version of an old game.

A small hard rubber ball and five jackstone of—
ficers, proudly displaying the insignia of their
rank, are the only items needed for the game. Let
the children make their own jackstones out of
stiff cardboard squares %”x V2”. Draw or trace
he symbols on both sides of the squares: lieuten-
ant, one bar; captain, two bars; major, leaf;
lcolonel, eagle; and general, star. Pierce a V2”

l . . .
,niatchstick or a piece of tightly rolled heavy paper
1

   
   

5

GIHERAL

through the center of each square, coloring these
“legs” gold for the lieutenant, orange for the cap-
tain, red for the major, green for the colonel, and
blue for the general. (See illustration.)

a. On Parade. Scatter jacks. Toss ball in the
air with the right hand, and while it bounces only
once, pick up the jack of the lowest rank (lieu—
tenant—one bar). Transfer this jack to the left
hand and repeat, picking up one jack at a time in
ascending rank until all five “officers” are in the
left hand.

b. In Conference. Scatter jacks. Toss ball in
the air with right hand and pick up the lieutenant
and the captain on one bounce of the ball. Trans-
fer these jacks to the left hand and pick up the
remaining three.

c. Calling on the General. Scatter jacks. Pick
up all the jacks except the
one with the star and place
them in the left hand. Pick
up the general with the left
hand. This is also done with
one bounce only.

(1. Military Secret. Scat-
ter the jacks widely and
pick up all five at once, with
one bounce.

e. The General Reviews.
Scatter jacks, Toss ball up
with right hand and while it
bounces once, pick up the
general and the lieutenant
with the right hand. Put the
lieutenant aside—he is now
out of the game. Transfer the general to the left
hand. Toss the ball and without permitting it to
bounce, return the general with the left hand to
the jacks remaining in the game. Next, pick up
the general‘and the captain and follow the same
procedure, putting the captain aside and returning
the general to game. When the general has re-
viewed the entire staff, pick him up with the left
hand.

f. Grand Salute. Place all five jacks in the left
hand. Toss the ball up with the right hand, lay
down all the jacks and while the ball bounces
once,‘ salute with right hand and then catch ball
with the left hand.

Chess. Most boys and girls do not know that
chess employs 'a great deal of military strategy.
Casually explain this and you’ll find the young-
sters pitching into the game with enthusiasm.

Chess requires an alert mind, time, and-patience,

   

  

Er

LllufEnm-tr

612 WHAT ABOUT GAMES IN WARTIME?

r euraesree

E 5

EL]...
:1

A E) C
o a .- Engaging-79g;
G I: L  9 those used in other wars and

H "Tl-.lElul-T .EI
PLANS I"

but as such it will keep boys
or girls busy during a black-
out. Boys are more apt to be-
come chess fans than girls,
but there are always excep-
tions. Incidentally, chessmen
and boards may now be pur-
chased in miniature sets,
handy for cramped spaces.

Benjamin Franklin was a
great chess enthusiast. He
maintained that it deve10ps three special faculties,
all of them applicable to military strategy.

 

The first is foresight—-the player must look far
ahead and see not only the immediate consequences
of his move, but also its ultimate results. The sec-
ond faculty is circumspection—the whole chess
board must be considered, in all its relationships,
not merely the single relations of the piece being
moved. And the third factor is caution——there can
be no foolhardiness for the good chess player. Once
you touch a chessman, you must move it some-

where, and once you have completed a move you
may not take it back.

Franklin compared this rule to war, “in which,
if you have incautiously put yourself into a bad or
dangerous position, you cannot obtain your
enemy’s leave to withdraw your troops, and place
them in more security, but
must abide the consequences

of your folly.”
Codes and
T h e r e ’ s

  

an!!!
H!
HEM
alum

nothing like a
bit of mystery
to keep chil-
dren absorbed
i n a g a m e .
T h e y m a y
l c a r n t h e

 

   

Tick-ta clc-toe Code

This fascinating code has been adapted
from one used in the French Revolution

   
 

standard codes — Morse code,
semaphore, naval pennant code
—for transmitting messages in.
their games, or they may in-
vent their own codes, based on

C 0 D other countries. If your young.

charges become interested in}

the subject, tell them about;

Fletcher Pratt’s book, “Secret-
and Urgent,” published by Bobbs-Merrill in New-
York.

Tick-Tack-Toe Code. The tick-tack-toe code it—.
self is keyed by the squares in this familiar game—
found on virtually every school desk in the coun—
try. The letters of the alphabet are placed in order
in the three diagrams, the second group of letters
being accompanied by a single dot and the third
group by two dots, as shown in the illustration. E

The angles and the squares become a key to.
each letter. For instance, a complete square with:
no dot in it is the letter E; a similar square with.
one dot is N; and with two dots, the square be—
comes “I. A complete message is written in codel
in the illustration. ‘

Paper Fold. Adapted from a code used during'
the French Revolution, this method of transmitting
secret matters of state is easy for children to de-
code and yet exciting enough to hold their interest.

Both sender and receiver must know the trick.
The sender has before him a piece of paper divided.
into blocks, six across and five down. The letters-
of the alphabet are placed in each square as shown
in the illustration, with four blocks left for spaces-
or designated punctuation. On a blank sheet of
tracing paper placed over the key (both'papersl.
being the same size), the sender numbers the let-
ters and spaces of his message in consecutin

order. Each number is placej’

over its proper block, but t
a“ appear-1
ances the pa}-
per is nothin
but a blank.
sheet with unt
related numf
bers scattered:
over it. '

When the!
paper reachcsi‘
its destination, i
the receiv er1r

if

I

WHAT ABOUT GAMES IN WARTIME? 613

folds the paper into the six blocks across and five
down. His square is then similar to the sender’s
and he can easily decode the numbers. Try de-
ciphering the illustrated message and you’ll see
that it reads, “Beware, the shadow.”

Number Cryptograms. Again combining num—
bers and letters, this cryptogram requires a key
number known to both sender and receiver.

Choose any number with more than four digits
for the key—let’s say, 654321. This is secret. of
course, and does not appear in writing except when
the receiver deciphers the message.

From all appearances the written message is
just a hodge-podge of letters. Actually the first
letter which you write in the code is the sixth let-
ter beyond the real letter. The second letter in the
code is the fifth one beyond the real letter, and the
third written letter is the fourth letter beyond the
real one. This follows the key number.

“7 hen you have gone through the key number,
start over again without a break—654321654321,
etc.

You'll often want to count four letters beyond Y,
let’s say, when there just aren’t four more letters
in the alphabet. The problem is solved by running
right over into the beginning of the alphabet again
—so the fourth letter beyond Y is C.

In decoding the message, it’s easiest just to
place the key number over the letters in order,

then write the real letters below. Thus the original
message might read: V ZDCNFY PIHR ZUZRJ

RBZW'MRVT HZVVB, With the proper number
of letters subtracted (just the opposite process
from the writing), the message becomes more

intelligent :

6543216 5432 16543 21654321 6543
vzncnrv PIHR ZUZRJ RBZWMRVT sza

Puzzles keep young patriots busy.

Mathematical Magic

The pinnacle of success for a school boy is the
ability to amaze his friends with mysterious mathe-
matical calculations. Thus he becomes a prophetic
genius, a mathematical Wizard, a man to be re—

spected !

Dutchman's Hoax. A German general ordered a
Dutch merchant to set aside thirty-two choice
cheeses for later use by his staff. The general
ordered the storekeeper to arrange the cheeses in

a square so that each side contained nine. To do
this the merchant piled up seven cheeses on each
side and one cheese at each corner:

1 7 l
7 7
l 7 1

One of the clerks, however, stole twelve of the
cheeses. At three different times he took four
cheeses .away, yet the theft was never noticeable.
On his inspection trips the general always counted
nine cheeses on each side of the square. How did
the clerk arrange the piles each time? (If you and
your mathematical youngsters are stumped, you’ll
find the answer at the end of the article.)

Finding the Remainder. Ask someone to think of
a number, any number, and to keep it secret. Next,
have him double. it, then add a given number.
Halve the Whole sum and finally substract the
original number. You will astound him by know-
ing the answer.

The key to the puzzle lies in the number which
you ask your victim to add. Half of this figure will
be the remainder. It is easier of course to have
him add even numbers which will divide without
fractions. Try this sample:

Think of a number . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7
Double it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..14
Add 10 to it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..24
Halve it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..12
Subtract the original number. . . .. 7
The remainder will be . . . . . . . . . .. 5 (half of 10)

Such puzzles may lead to a genuine interest in
mathematics, which is an important subject in
army and navy training.

 

AnsWer to the Dutchman's Hoax

The clerk stole four cheeses each time by ar-
ranging the piles in the following orders:

Original Arrangement Third Arrangement

1 7 l 3 3 3

7 7 3 3

l 7 l 3 3 3
Second Arrangement Fourth Arrangement

2 5 2 4 l 4

5 5 l 1

2 5 2. 4 l 4

 

 

Report from the Western Front

 

Recreation in Los Angeles uG7oes to War"

05 Axocu‘s is the largest
L American city located
within an actually des-
ignated combat zone, that
if the Pacific area under the \Vestern Defense
command. Here we find all of the typical conditions
.f a metropolis which recognizes that it might
some day become the scene. of an actual air attack
or perhaps even ground tighting.

Here is a great embarkation point which has
.uely attained full growth as a mighty industrial
center. producing a substantial portion of the na-
tion’s war material. (iiant airplane plants, sprawl-
ing shipyards, steel mills, oil refineries, and other
producing centers turn out a constant flow of
uluipment and goods for the armed forces.

The population of the city has leaped up with
startling ahruptness as tens of thousands pour in
from all over the country to take over war jobs.
\Vithin the city of Los .\ngeles itself the population
figure at the latest estimate was hovering close to
1.000, and in the metro-
mlitan area of city and

 

By SAMUEL L. FRIEDMAN

Department of Playgrounds and Recreation
Los Angeles, California

No dimmed-out street corners for girls
and boys who have a "place of their own"

county there are now more
than three million persons.

As in other cities, many
war problems arise. There
are the blackouts and the general dimout; the dis-
location of families resulting from parents work-
ing in war plants and leaving children to shift for
themselves; there is a rising juvenile delinquency
rate. In some sections of the city serious housing
shortages exist. War workers have money to
spend and demand amusement that will keep pace
with the exciting tempo of the times and underly-
ing all this, there is the very serious recognition
that Los Angeles is a rich plum for an enemy
attack.

To meet its wartime recreation problems, Los
Angeles has a system of playgrounds, swimming
pools, community center buildings, beaches, camps.
athletic fields, and other centers, serving an annual
attendance of 25,000,000, and supervised by a well
trained staff of recreation directors among the
best paid in the nation.
liven before the war began.

l
l
.l

 

.

' l
O r
l

l‘onrtuy Sit u.r City, 1mm, Department of Recreation

I from out of town

 

RECREATION IN LOS ANGELES “GOES TO WAR"

the flood of new employees in Los Angeles
defense plants-—many of them newly arrived
was making itself felt, and
the recreation centers were adapting their pro—
grams to meet the need.

One of the earliest program developments for
defense plant workers was the establishment of
athletic leagues and organizations. Oflicials of
the Recreation Department conferred with per~
sonnel men in airplane plants and other war in-

 

‘ dustries, and employees were encouraged to or—

ganize baseball and softball, football, basketball.
and other teams.

Thousands of day workers were soon organized
into twilight leagues and night leagues while those
on the “swing shifts” and “graveyard shifts” en—
rolled in daytime sports activities at the municipal
athletic field. Mass participation was emphasized
and games were scheduled within each industry
and on an interplant basis. Tennis and golf tour—
naments, bicycle riding clubs, and other activities
were natural outgrowths of this program.

Major plants soon developed employees’ organi—
zations capable of taking over their own sports
programs, but they continue to use the athletic
facilities of the Los Angeles Recreation Depart—
ment and to seek the guidance of the Department's
sports officials.

Defense Wives

Having interested the war workers in the use of
municipal recreation facilities, it was a natural step
for the playgrounds and recreation centers to appeal
to their families. Wives were invited to join De—
fense Wives’ Clubs. They came to the playgrounds
to enjoy gymnasium classes, tap dancing, volley~
ball, other sports and games, and dramatics. Many
of them stayed to take part in handcraft, music and
other activities in which they had never dreamed
they might be interested.

Mothers brought their children and soon the
youngsters—many from towns and hamlets with
no organized recreation—were learning to enjoy
the many playground activities which have been
offered for years to the children of Los Angeles.

Today, entire families of
war workers enjoy every fa-
cility and activity that the
playgrounds of Los Angeles
afford. They play tennis, use
the volleyball courts and
horseshoe courts, enjoy the
picnic grounds, play on teams

The President of the United States, rec-
ognizing that "healthy recreational pur-
suIts" for workers in war industry, as
well as for men in uniformI contribute to
the war program. says: "All of them
have a necessary and beneficial part in
promoting an over-all efficiency by re-
lieving the strains of war and work."

615

Public recreation leaders meet the chal—
lenge in a west coast metropolis where

|.800,000'people know that'the war is

not'i/ery far.- ‘from their own doorsteps

‘a‘

 

on the athIEtic fields, and gather at the community
center buildings to get acquainted” with their
neighbors They enjoy neighborhood danCes, com—
munity sings, amateur plays and operettas, and
hobby clubs which run the gamut from stamp col—
lecting and phOtography to cactus growing and
mineralogy.

Through these influences, exerted subtly but
powerfully, many newcomers to Los Angeles have
adjusted themselves to the changed environment
and made friends far more rapidly than if they had
been allowed to shift for themselves during their

leisure time.

War Industry Orphans

In an uncounted number of families, both hus—
bands and wives are working, leaving children of
every age without supervision. In some cases the
fathers are in the armed forces and widows of men
who lost their lives at Pearl Harbor and other
tragic battlefronts are already numbered among
the employees in Los Angeles war industries.

The nursery schools already in Los Angeles and
those that are being set up still will not meet the
question of caring for children of the older age
group, boys and girls who, between the time they
leave school and the time their mothers return
home, have no supervision whatsoever. These
youngsters more than ever need and are served by
the municipal playgrounds.

The playgrounds have their own organized
clubs for boys and girls. Quite typical is the
“Lamp Clubs,” an organization for girls between
the ages of nine and sixteen which stresses home-
making, good citizenship, the social graces, charac-
ter, and self—reliance. The annual reward for be-
ing a good “Lamp Clubber”
is a one—week expedition into
the wilderness of Griffith Park
where the Recreation Depart-
ment maintains a well equip-
ped Girls’ Camp, containing
recreation lodge, dining hall,
cozy cabins, swimming pool,

RECREATION IN LOS ANGELES “GOES TO IVAR”

and other attractive features.

The organized activities pro-
gram for boys and girls is al—
most endless—classes in danc-
ing, in dramatics, and in music; instruction in
handcraft of all kinds; awards for outstanding
performance in tournaments and special programs;
appropriate celebrations for patriotic and histori-
cal occasions; playlets and special events created
tn develop interest and pride in the nation’s history.

Everyone Is Welcome

All of the activities and programs for war work-
er» are open to all citizens of Los Angeles. As the
war goes on, families are placing greater depend-
ence on the playgrounds. The tranSportation
shortage, lack of tires, the dimuut and other at-
tendant conditions are keeping more people at
home. As a result, they are now turning to the
playgrounds to fill the need for recreation and

Los Angeles has been fostering one
of the biggest "learn-to-swim" cam-
paigns in its history—for children
and adults, soldiers and civilians

Courtesy Department of Public Recreation, Reading,

relaxation which they uée
seek farther afield.

As a result, municipal
reation centers have gene
reflected a steadily increasing attendance.
municipal swimming pools of Los Angeles (1
the summer of 1942 showed a forty per cent
crease in attendance over last year. Many tl
sands who formerly went to the beaches for aq
sports found their driving restricted and tu
to the swimming pools instead. The pools re
the occasion by expanding their program, off -
“learn-to-swim” classes, meets, tournaments, .
other activities.

The city has been fostering one of the big
“learn-to-swim" drives in its history. Not 0
children but adults are joining the classes. T
instruction has a serious side, since the great
at sea shows more and more the need for abi'
to swim on the part of those who may some (1

 

RECREATION IN LOS ANGELES “GOES TO WAR” 617

)e aboard ships in the combat zones. M any.soldiers
.n training encampments near by are taught to
swim in city pools while they are awaiting em-
)arkation. These men are taught to swim with
:heir full clothing and equipment, just as they
nay have to do while at sea.

A tremendous increase in attendance has also
)een reported at municipal family vacation camps,
particularly Camp Seeley, in the San Bernardino
nountains only seventy-five miles from Los An-
;eles. Families who once thought nothing of a
ifteen—hundred-mile automobile trip for their va-
:ation have suddenly found that their activity
nust be compressed into a much smaller space.
They have flocked to the city camps to enjoy the
put of doors at a cost which leaves a wide margin

lor war bonds and stamps.

  
   
 
  
  
 
    
    
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 

‘ Civilian Defense

The increased use of the
ecreation centers in Los
ngeles and recognition
hat a healthy, well inte-
rated population, with high
iorale, is a vital element in
he victory drive have made
ublic recreation an impor—
ant factor in civilian de-
ense. The City Defense
ouncil of Los Angeles,
hrough its Committee on
ealth, Welfare and Consumer Interest, is en-
ouraging and'fostering public recreation.

The recreation centers, faced with this increased

urden while many of their staff members are
eing drawn into the armed forces, have tried to
upplement their work with volunteers. The first
graduates” of volunteer training courses are
lready proving their value. The principal appeal
1' volunteers has been made to women, especially
0 mothers and housewives in neighborhoods where
dditional recreation leadership will be directly
elt by the children. Today there is a growing
rmy of volunteers ready to assist at the play—
rounds in' issuing and supervising the use of play
quipment, in maintaining order, and in organiz-
g activities.
“We have rediscovered the neighborhood” as
e unit of recreation, is the way it is expressed
y the Superintendent of Recreation, George
jelte, and his meaning is well understood by the
ore than two hundred women volunteers already
t work on the playgrounds.

"The recreational needs of wartime
are not essentially different from those
of peacetime. They are only more
acute. There are serious social penal-
ties to be paid in peacetime for our
failure or neglect to provide for the

recreational needs of our communities.
These penalties might be summed up
as social disorganization and individ-
ual'human waste. In wartime we can-

not afford to pay these penalties.‘l
Florence Kerr, Federal Works Agency.

 

As in the case of other major cities of America,
the war has brought to Los Angeles a rising tide
of juvenile delinquency. On the east side of Los
Angeles, in areas heavily populated with children
of foreign-born parents, juvenile gang wars have
broken out. The playgrounds of Los Angeles are
being called upon to help meet the current prob-
lem. Boys and girls are being attracted away from
gang activities and from dimmed-out street cor-
ners by games, sports, and other activities at the
recreation centers.

War Housing

The development of great new public housing
facilities in Los Angeles to accommodate the in-
creased population of war workers presents a job
and an opportunity which
public recreation is work-
ing to meet.

Three huge projects al—
ready finished and six others
planned or under construc-
tion will house thousands of
families.

The Los Angeles Play—

ground and Recreation De-
partment has kept step with
the development of the hous-
ing projects by assigning
several of its best directors
to organize the recreational
activities in such centers. The first project to
which a director was assigned was at Ramona
Gardens, where 610 families are housed. Housing
accommodations here are aimed at slum clearance
and are provided for low income families.

A woman recreation director, assigned to the
project from one of the regular East Side play-
grounds, has been hard at work introducing com-
munity recreation and social activities which will
capitalize upon these aspirations and will weld chil-
dren and adults into a true community of interest.

Here, as in‘other housing projects, the work of
recreation is being carefully watched as in a great
human laboratory. The patterns for community
recreation that are now being established in these
centers may provide a signpost pointing to new
and better- organized community recreation and
social life when the war is over, or perhaps even
sooner.

.Playgrounds and community centers of Los
Angeles have become the headquarters for -meet-

(Continued on page 643)

A Letter to Recreation Directors

DJ US‘I‘MENTS which all
A governmental agencies
are required to make
on account of the war are
almost revolutionary in
character, One of these adjustments concerns
vitally the recreation director. No longer is a city-
wide, uniform program directed from the main of-
fice possible. Curtailment of transportation is re-
sponsible for this. Heretofore we have felt that a
playground and its indoor facilities were well used
if they were in part occupied by activities of sports
groups and self-managed permit groups. These
have now greatly diminished in number. \Ve are
turning the whole playground back to the neigh-
borhood. The neighbors will have to learn how to
make use of the facilities more than ever before.
Some are newcomers and
have not lived where such
facilities were available.

More than this, you and I
must learn how to promote a
neighborhood program; how
to make it so interesting that
the peOple in the neighbor-
hood cannot stay away. Some
nf us remember when the
playground and recreation centers were exclu-
sively for the neighborhood. Children, of course,
attended almost daily, but mothers, fathers, and
the youth of the neighborhood also came to attend
club meetings, to play on local teams, to dance, to
prepare the Christmas play, to picnic. Going to
the playground was like going to the corner
grocery, the drugstore, the church, or to any other
indi5pensable neighborhood institution.

Came then the automobile, radio, rapid transit,
regional attractions—many things that gradually
destroyed neighborhood
solidarity, neighborhood
sociability, and dependence
of one neighbor upon other
neighbors in day-to-day
living.

Now we are rediscover-
ing the neighborhood. We
neighbors have common
needs and we are mutually
dependent upon each other.

618

reation in Los

everywhere who

tors become vitally

"The p|ayground is yours: fhe we must share rides r
neighborhood can be yours. too.
Go to it! This is your war job!"

George HjelteI Superintendent of Rec-
Angeles, California,
recently sent a message to his recre-
ation directors which is so timely and
important that we aslted him to permit
us to share it with recreation worlcers
are facing similar
responsibilities and opportunities.

"Now we are rediscovering the neighbor-
hood. We neighbors have common needs and
we are mutually dependent upon each other.
. . . In such a time and under such conditions
the playground, its buildings and its direc-
important. It can be the
center of neighbor ood life, but not unless the
director maltes it so. There is no reason why
every center should not hum with activity
every day and every night—no reason short of
your capacity to bring about such a result."

I-

  
 
  
  
   
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
   

walk. \Valking, we meet u
neighbors. \Ve must p
together our safety agai
air raids and fires. \‘Ve in
register at the ration office, and, being rationed
many things, we must borrow and repay, in
share and help. Busy adults in war work m
assign the care of their children to others.

In such a time and under such conditions t
playground, its building and its directors can u
come vitally important. It can be the center i
neighborhood life; but not unless the direc
makes it so. The activities won't just happ
The director will have to organize them and p
mote them. He will have to learn new techniq

—new to some and yet old because the p1aygror
and recreation center
thirty years ago was just 5
a place as described. The .
rectors will have to bring t
neighbors in, counsel '
them, enlist their leadersh
promote their attendan
There is no reason why ev
center should not hum
activity every day and ev
night—no reason short of your capacity to bri
such a result.

Yes, there will be many reasons why you c
not produce this result: “The people of‘this ne'
borhood are peculiar.” (All people are peculi
“The requisitions for materials aren’t filled;
tain supplies can’t be bought from public fut '
budgets aren't big enough.” But there are
compelling reasons why it can be accomplis ‘
You are the principal reason. You can do it.
has been done before when there were no bu '
at all, Harry Overst
listed ten qualifications
a successful recreation
rector. One was “ingen
in the use of limited
sources.” Another
“rich experience in c
munity living." A °t
was “wisdom with peo -

Your hands are now fr

(Continued on page 643)

Church and Community Recreation in Wartime

so much'regimentation is

necessary and strain is
heavy on the individual and
on society as a whole, it is
doubly important that every
community have adequate
recreational opportunities. In-
creasingly apparent is the
need of elementary school
children and of growing youth for wholesome rec—
reation and relaxing free play. An emotionally
stable life, both for the child and the family as a
whole, has a real contribution to make to the win—
ning of the war.

I N THESE DAYS of war, when

We are trying in our community and county to
do what we can to make opportunities for reCrea-
tion more readily available and to inspire others to

pool their interests and skills in achieving our
goaL

A small town on the Mississippi River in the
tri-city defense area not far from Rock Island
Arsenal and many defense plants, Port Byron,
Illinois, has doubled its population since the 1940
census was taken and now boasts over 1,000 peo-
ple. A once flourishing VVPA program has been
terminated and the
equipment remov-
ed at a time when
the need for recre-
ation is great.

As pastor of the
local Methodist

Church and the
only resident min-
ister, I had helped
to secure the proj-
ect and had served
on its board. It
seemed up to us
now to do some-
thing to fill the
gap and to pro-
vide what we could
in the' way of
building, equip-
ment, and leader-
ship to help meet

By A. J. COPELAND

PastorI The Methodist Church
Port Byron-l':airtielC'.lI Illinois

"Not iust for the members of your own
church alone but for everyone." is the
plea of this pastor as he challenges
every small community to provide recre-
ational opportunities for all of its people

the need made more acute by
the war strain and the influx
of war workers.

We have the usual organ-
ized activities such as school
athletics and entertainments;
the Cub Scouts sponsored by
our Methodist Men’s Brother-
hood; the Boy Scouts, by the
American Legion; the Girl
Scouts, by the VVoman’s Club; 4—H and Rural
Youth by the Farm and Home Bureau; and Adult
clubs and lodges. There was, however, a felt need o
for opportunities for free play and social recrea— a
tion which would encourage sharing and provide
pure fun in accord with the child’s own interests
and desires.

As pastor of the Port Byron Methodist Church
I serve a two~point circuit. One church is in the
Open country and reaches an entirely agricultural
constituency; the other serves a small town which
is becoming largely industrial in character.

Puzzles and games for the children who
begin to arrive as soon as school is out

 

5‘s;- i. .  .-

._;r-. "-:=Z.I‘-;='"'r-=-'--:-'.;. .;r:;=-.~?.5.¢- .;  .

Courtesy Department of Municipal Recreation and Adult Education, Milwaukee, Wis.

619

620 CHURCH AND COMMUNITY RECREATION IN WARTIME

f lur Fairheld country church, four miles from
town, fortunately has an adequate building and
facilities for recreation, with a large hall adjacent
to the church and a basement under all. The
church board is very liberal in permitting the free
use of the building by groups of all kinds, and it is
becoming the natural and much used center for
farm and community agencies in the northern half
of Rock Island County. Home and Farm Bureau
units. 4-H and Rural Youth groups meet here
frequently. Some groups make voluntary gifts to
assist in the upkeep; others do not but they are
equally welcome. Church nights and community
nights are open to all. Equipment games and shuf-
fleboard are available. Singing games, folk games,
folk songs, and social rec-
reation are very popular

' with youth and young

6

' adults.

At the Town Church

The town church is not
so fortunate in its build-
ing, but the basement has
recently been enlarged and
a more compact air heat:
ing plant installed, pri-
marin to give more space
for community service.
Here, too, the church
board thinks in terms of
the whole community
rather than its own mem-
bership and has made the
church basement available
without cost for open house and social recreation
on Thursday nights. A program for a second night
will be arranged as the need arises and the re—
Spouse grows.

\\'e are stressing the family unit in this project
and free play dominates. Group parties and other
social activities parallel the Thursday night open
house but seek to reach all ages. The response
thus far has been very good, and we expect it to
grow in popularity as tires wear out and gasoline
becomes more scarce.

Seven o'clock is the opening hour for our social
evening, but a few children, knowing that the
building will be warm earlier than that hour, begin
to arrive as soon as school is out to play ping-
pong and other active equipment games. Immedi-
ately after supper, almost before we can open the
door and turn on the lights, little groups begin to

the village churches.

are now unmet.

A SMALL COMMUNITY IN WARTIME

A small community in the West had always
loolted for its recreation to a near-by city.
There was not even a motion picture theater
for the youngster no dance hallI no school-
house open for evening gatherings.

When the war situation became acute and
people could no longer use their cars for
twenty-mile trips, there was a serious recrea-
tion situation. Some people have thought that
first in importance was trying to find a way
of opening a motion picture theater. Others
wonder whether a way can be found to open
up the schoolhouse, to make a larger use of

Clearly there is need for those who care for

the young men and young women of these
villages to think in terms of the nee’ds that

  
   
  
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
 
  

come. From then on until closing time the cents
is a busy place.

Pictorial magazines and illustrated quizzes :II-d
puzzles greet the first comers as they enter. Quiet
tables games, such as checkers, marble game board
games, traditional games, dominoes, anagrams, an
simple card games are available for those who en-
joy them. Many await their turn to take part in
active equipment games———table tennis, a fourteen-
foot bowling alley, table polo, dart baseball. boat
hockey, skittles, carom, ring toss, and others. AH
of these are homemade and can be duplicated at
little cost. Hobby groups can make them with
success and enjoyment.

Usually sometime in the evening we have a sing.
We especially enjoy Sing-
ing America, compiled by
A. D. Zanzig for the Na-
tional Recreation Associa-
tion. Other collections,
such as Let’s Sing the
Same Songs, are also good
at this time when nation
community sing campaigns
are being waged.

Training Leaders

High school youth and
young adults, our experi.-
ence shows, enjoy the sing-
ing games and folk games.
In order to have a group

(-4..
"1
E3
:1
(D
G.
9-9.
0
r?
93
C).
H
:3"
(D
U)
(D
E.’
._a
0..

other types of recreation,
we have just instituted i
our county a practice group in recreational leader-
ship. the first session of which was held in th
church basement in December. It grew out of i1

formal discussions of several recreation leader
rel" ' °

:6
m
(D
:3
I:
:3
Q
f'
SJ
:1
o
c
(/3
SJ
:3
o.
O
o
E
H
H
2:
on
H
o
E
U
W
m
c:
Q.

33

as churches, farm and home organizations. 4-I
Clubs, schools, and other organizations. After
discussion of plans a night was agreed on and fiv
of the group volunteered to be responsible for tl
first session, each to lead in a different type

game. These included games for first comers an
get-acquainted games, mixers, simple singing an

folk games, quiet games, and more advanced couu
try dances. The session closed with a sing.

Continuation Committee

During the quiet game period we held a brief
discussion of the advisability of continuing this

l
l

CHURCH AND COMMUNITY RECREATION IN WARTIME

informal group to develop new leaders in the
county for all types of recreation as well as to im—
prove our own repertoire of games and skills. The

‘decision was to continue, keeping the group un—

official and without sponsorship by any one or-
ganization. A continuation committee of five was
chosen, three of them to carry over from the pre-
vious committee, with two new members added
each time. The committee is to be kept democratic
and Hexible. The monthly or bimonthly sessions
will be planned to meet needs as they arise and
will be held each time in a different community in
the county. Thus we hope to share the games we
know and learn new ones, and to discover and
develop a large group of new local leaders. “Learn-
ing the fun way by doing and sharing” will be our
motto.

New Talent

The flrst session brought to light some new
talent and uncovered some original variations of
old-time games. Another outgrowth of the first
session was a request that some of the members
share in a recreation program paralleling the
school district defense meetings which are func—
tioning in our county and state. These sessions for
leaders are training conferences for those who
later will be in charge of rural school district meet-
ings on a neighborhood basis. At the recreation
session games for crowded places and those re-
quiring little equipment would be demonstrated
and used later at these local meetings. This we
plan to do upon invitation of those responsible for
the meetings, filling the cars that would be regu—
larly going and enriching the program of the de-
fense meetings, while at the same time training
recreation leaders.

We hope, too, that family recreation and home
play may be promoted by this group, both by get-
ting family groups to attend local play nights and
by stimulating them to play in their own homes.
A further session will, we hope, be largely devoted
to this field. So many splendid helps are available
for home-centered recreation if we can only en—
courage in the parents the desire for it and per-

suade them to give the children a central place in.

the picture.

Home Centers

If homes are made available as recreation cen-
ters, gas and tire rationing may prove a blessing
in disguise. Let the gang use the kitchen after
their school affairs and on Saturday nights, and

621

there will be less delinquency. It’s more fun to
pop corn at home when the family does it together
than to buy it already popped at the village hang-
out, and the living room with its fireplace is more
conducive to good times and good fellowship than
the movie house at the county seat, and much
more accessible now. Children are always more
important than floors or rugs or furniture. Par-
ents and children will keep young together, and
some of the war strain will be eased by home—cen-
tered recreation and shared fun.

We do not claim to have solved all our local
recreation problems, but we have made a start
which we hope other local groups will want to
emulate. There are public buildings in every com-
munity which could be made available for recrea-
tional purposes, such as township and village halls,
public schools, library basements, and other tax-
supported or privately~owned buildings and
churches which can supply space. And there are
interested groups of individuals or sponsoring or-
ganizations which can soon collect enough equip-
ment to make a start, In every community there
are a few persons with an appreciation of recrea-
tional values and the native ability and skills to
act as leaders and chaperones.

The National Recreation Association’s state-
ment of aims for recreation in wartime has set a
high goal for all of us. Those of us in local situa-
tions must put them into operation. It can and
should be done in every community. Every indi-
vidual who wholeheartedly undertakes to share in
this important task will be making a major con-
tribution to the war effort on the home front.
Truly there is a way to sing and play as well as
light our way to victory!

“Self—expression is the summation of the satis-
faction of the ten human needs. These drives,
abilities, and creative forces in every human per-
sonality should have opportunity, within the bounds
of others’ rights, for full self-expression. . . This
need was recognized by Paul when in his epistles
he used the word ‘abound’ more than twenty times.
A buoyant, exuberant, overflowing, abundant life
is the result of right self—expression. The objec-
tive of the church should be to help people do better
what they are constantly driven to do by powerful
inner urges, Our aim is a richer, balanced satis-
faction for all people of these needs which are
common to all humanity.”——George Gleason in
Church Group Activities.

Salvage the Crayon Stubs!
"Make and Mend" Column

axr TIME YOU UNEARTH a collection of stubby
N little crayon ends, restrain your normal im-
pulse to toss them into the wastebasket.
They’re still useful and certainly worthy of salvage.

Seemingly useless wax crayons can be used as
stain or paint for wood; they will also produce
blended marble paper or multi-colored pictures on
cloth. One of their main advantages is the ease
with which they are used by young children. The
would—be artists feel more at home with crayons
than with paints, mainly because they don’t spill
or splash.

Instead of buying a set of colored building
blocks, for instance, you and
your charges might make
some. Lumber companies,
especially sash and mill
works, usually have piles of
scrap ends from which you
can salvage nicely shaped
- blocks, gratis. Or they may
amiany cut other scraps
down to size for your col-
lection. Sandpaper the rough ends of these blocks
and then proceed to color them with crayons.

Wood Stain

The effect of wood stain can be obtained by
rubbing over crayon markings with light machine
oil. Suppose you want to color each side of a block
a different color—a solid color with no detailed
pattern. First step is to outline each edge with a
straight line, then fill in the center areas with ran-
dom crayon markings. These need not be too close
together because the oil will later blend them into
one another.

Place a few drops of machine oil on an absorb-
ent rag and rub over the crayoned surface until
the stain covers the area. Use a different rag for
each color. The wax of the crayon acts as a wood
filler and gives a smooth, glossy finish if rubbed
with a wool cloth. Other toys can be colored by
young children in this same way.

Paint-Pot Artistry

Since crayons are soluble in kerosene or tur-
pentine you can use them to make your own liquid

622

 

  
 
  
  
  
 
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
    

paints for coloring toys and blocks. It will sa
you hours of diligent searching through stor
too, now that paints are increasingly diffict
to get.

Pour a small quantity of kerosene or turpenti
into a paint dish and shave the crayons into t
solution. Experiment with a mixture of two 0
three colors if you’re sure they won’t clash. T
apply the resultant paint, rub it into the sand .7
wood surface with a soft piece of cloth.

Marble Paper

With a little help, young children can also ma
the marble paper so oft
used for scrap book cove .
There are two methods f
this, one with crayons a
one with oil paints.

If you’re going to
crayon stubs, fill a shall
pan with water and bring
to a boil. Shave small b'
of the crayons over the s .
face and allow the wax to melt somewhat as
floats. Use several complementary colors for
blended effect.

Using some kind of grippers—spring cloth
pins or even pliers—to keep your fingers out
the hot water, draw stiff white paper through
water from one end of the pan to the other. Dr
it slightly under the surface so that the float'
particles of color will cling to the top of the pa
in a blended design. Lay it aside to dry.

The same marble effect is attained with
paints floating on the surface of cool water.
the oil paint with a bit of turpentine and pou
carefully on the surface of water, pouring sev
other colors in different areas in the pan. D
the paper through the water, just under the 5
face as before and pick up the blended paints.

you have a large pan you might experiment
wall panels or screens for your club room.

Crayon Tapestry

Some dreary rainy day you can keep the yo _
ones safely occupied with cloth pictures. Let th

(Continued on page 644)

"Point of Honor"

By MYRTLE F. PATTERSON

Aciing Superinfendenf
Playground and Recreafion Deparfmen’r
Lynchburg, Virginia

YNCHBURG’S “POINT OF HONOR” Community
Center is well named for it stands on a famed
old dueling ground overlooking the James

River. Here the gay young blades of another cen-
tury settled personal quarrels and defended their
honor. In 1806 the building which now houses
the Community Center was built on the grounds
and served for many years as the home of noted
Virginia families, among them the Cabells, the
Langhornes, and the Lichfords.

About fifteen years ago two Lynchburg citizens,
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Gilliam, Jr., bought and
gave the Point of Honor grounds to the city as a
community playground. Later the city,bought the
old colonial home on these grounds and completely
renovated it into one of the most modern and up—
to-date community centers in the Southeast.

The house is large and spacious, lending itself
well to many and varied activities. There are
rooms for every type of recreation——a library, a
music room, club rooms, a kitchen, boys’ work-
sh0p, and a play room—all of them in constant
use. The grounds around the house are land—
scaped with shrubs, shade trees, and flower gar-
dens. The wading pool, see—saws, junglegym and
swings furnish facilities for out-of-door fun for
the hundreds of children who frequent this center
which has grown by leaps and bounds under the
leadership of its director, Mrs. C. S. Morris.

Most striking is the work being done among
the younger children who are kept at the center
most of the day while their parents are employed
in various local industries. Here they receive the
very best of attention, and in addition to their play
activities are being trained in the art of “living
together.”

During the school year, students from Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College of Lynchburg vol-
unteer their time to teach the children dancing,
knitting, music (both vocal and piano), drama,

 

and home economics. At the first sign of any in-
clination to act, dance, sing or play, this talent is
thirty-minute program is made up entirely of
the weekly radio hour conducted by the Recrea-
tion Department over the local radio station. This
thirty minute program is made up entirely of
music, skits and recitations by youngsters from
the various play centers. It is through this medium
that self-consciousness is often conquered before
it gets a hold on a child and at the same time poise
and grace are developed.

Let us take a tour through this modern com-
munity center and watch the children as they go
about their typical, everyday play activities. As
we approach the lovely old colonial-style door, we
are met by our hostess, Mrs. Morris, who takes
pride in “her children.” She thinks of them as her
own for during the years she has been director
here she has seen them grow from mere infants
into young men and women, some of whom, now
married, bring their children to Point of Honor.

We first step into the well-equipped modern
playroom where we find every conceivable toy and
game, with caroms the current favorite of boys and
girls of all ages. The board is neyer idle from the
time the doors open until they close. In one cor-
ner we see a group of teen-age boys “fighting it
out” at a checker board; in another corner the
smaller girls are playing “house” in front of a
lovely miniature home equipped with modern fur-
niture and presided over by a family of dolls. In
another part of the room, two older girls are
teaching a group the rules of a new contest, and
over at the table an exciting game of jackrocks
is taking place.

To the left of the reception hall, in the spacious
“parlor,” we find a piano, radio, and victrola. The
rug has been removed from the floor and boys and
girls of all ages are dancing, using the steps taught
the!” last winter by the girls from Randolph—

623

(-24

Macon. Not only are they taught rhythm and the
intricacies of the dance, but the boys have been
coached in the proper way to invite the girls to
dance with them and how to apologize for any

blunders.

The library is our next destination. This is the
real pride of the playground director! Lining all
sides of the room are well-built, spacious shelves
filled with books to suit the tastes of every age and
interest. Through the door to our right we enter
the reading room, with tables around which are
seated youngsters all busily pursuing their favorite
character through the pages of a story book or

sketching the biography of
some noted man by way of
their annual parallel reading.
Silence reigns in both rooms,
for the children have been
taught that here is a place for
those who would be quiet.

A little farther down the
hall we come to the club
rooms where activities of
every type are carried on.
The children elect their own
club officers and carry on their
activities in the most ap-
proved manner. In a room
equipped with sewing ma-
chines and tables we find the
sewing club, where girls are
busy repairing their old
clothes and making new ones
under able supervision. For
three consecutive years girls
from this class have. won the
state prize given by the City

and State Chapter of Daughters of American Revo-
lution for the best made dresses and have sent
their entry on for national competition. Two years
ago a dress made by one of the Point of Honor
girls won fourth place in the national contest.
The music room provides young piano students
a place in which they may practice daily without
fear of interruption. Here are several Bachs and
ieethovens in the making! At least one of the
older girls of this center is passing on her knowl-

“POINT OF HONOR”

ABOUT GIRLS

Recently Aimee Zillmer and Ruth Larsen gath-
ered facts and figures from 3.300 Wisconsin
high school girls.

It was disheartening that almost 75 per cent
stated that their town had not enough places
for good. decent fun. Movies were rated first.
even ahead of dancing and sports. Hobbies
were one-seventh as popular as moviesl

To the question. "Are you one of those girls
who hasn't many dates?" two out of every five
girls. or 42 per cent. answered. "Yes." Of these.
one-third said they really cared.

The reporters had a hunch that the others are
nice. normal girls who felt "yes." but stub-
bornly tossed a "no" off the end of their pen-
cils. Half the girls confessed that they are shy
with boys. Half of them do not get much
chance to meet boys. and 90 per cent of these
say that they have fun with girls instead.

Comment from the reporters: "That's nice'and
safe. but is it normal and wise for third and
fourth year high school girls?"—From Journal
of Social H ygiene, November. I942.

 

edge of music by organizing piano classes and in-

structing a dozen or more younger children.

The boys are not overlooked at this center. In a
room of their own in the basement tools of all
description are provided so that toys may be
mended and bits of wood turned into book racks,

flower stands, and other pieces of furniture.
cently the boys have begun making their 0
marionettes, not stopping with the construction
their bodies alone, but doing a complete job of i
dressing the marionettes in the proper costu
for their roles in the plays written and direct.
these same boys. The improvised stage is
front porch; the setting is furniture from the g'
doll house; and the scenery is made from bits
material found in the sewing room. The show
presented before a very enthusiastic audience u
up of children who frequent this center, and tl
parents, whom we see sitting about on the g .

the occasion going full blast, with maximum
ticipation. Because of the very low econ --
social status found in this particular neigh a
the work carried on here is particularly a ‘5
According to the records of the Probation (
juvenile delinquency, which was so high 1
many years ago, is now at a low eb'b,
attribute most of this to the influence and
the playground director, her crew of vol
workers, and patrons.

In this article Miss Patterson speaks 0
weekly radio broadcasts by the children 0
Lynchburg playgrounds. More information .
this program will be found in “The Childr
Hour,” in the October, 1942, issue of RECREATIO

      
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
 

I

Looking around the grou
we find every type of outd
activity going on. Child
of all ages are busily enga
in the sport of the sea
whether it be football, bas
ball, baseball, or softball.
one corner, the sand box .
wading pool are being
to capacity. In another ;
tion, bars, junglegyms, l
quet courts, swings, and
saws are attracting r
But the youngsters are r
to drop whatever they
doing to wish us farewel
their usual polite manner
ask us to visit them
for they delight in sho
off their play center of \
they are so proud.

No matter what the
son or the holiday, we
sure to find activities t_o

 

Developing Our National Resources

the National Resources

Planning Board with
reference to the future is
clearly indicated in the
opening pages of its report
for 1942 in such statements
as the following: “We are
not going back to the
‘status quo.’ We are going
forward. . . . We are firmly
convinced that depression

THE POINT of view of

A comprehensive review of Federal planning
agencies and their activities' together with
a summary of policies underlying sound plan-
ning for the development of many important
functions in our national life. is presented in
the National Resources Development Report
for I942 submitted to the President by the
National Resources Planning Board. Recrea-
tion is one of the subjects receiving con—
sideration. and in view of the significance
of the document. all concerned with this
problem will be interested in the statements
regarding it presented here. These extracts
are reprinted by courtesy of the Board.

grouped under "Im-
provements and Facilities”
and “Service Activities.”
Under the first heading
the need for new and im-
proved recreational facili-
ties is stressed, especially
for people in rural areas.
In pointing out that ser-
vice activities must be ex-

panded, the Board dis-
cusses recreation as fol-

need not follow the pres-

ent emergency situation and resolved that it will
not come if the government is alert and active and
is supported by the joint efforts of our national
forces. . . . We look forward to securing, through
planning and cooperative action, a greater freedom
for the American people.”

Among the new objectives set forth in the
declaration of personal rights is “the right to rest,
recreation, and adventure; an opportunity to enjoy
life and take part in an advancing civilization. . . .
\Ve know we can make our land more efficient,
more livable, more beautiful. “7 e propose to do so.”

- lows :

“Today our society accepts the 40—hour work-
ing week as the standard length of time for man’s
productive effort. During the war period this may
have to be lengthened, although our present knowl-

‘edge of fatigue indicates that short working days

may often be more productive per worker than
long ones. In the post-war period we shall doubt-
less return to the 40-hour workweek, and even
look forward to the time when increasing produc-
tion and technological improvements will make
possible shorter hours. But this is not the only
reason why we must be concerned about ample

After Victory
Plans for governmental
activities after victory are

The United States has large acreages of land
available for recreation. Our national parks
offer scenic beauty for the enjoyment of all.

recreational facilities for
man’s leisure-time activi-
ties.

 

625

t )2“

“Recreation is essential to health. And we can-
not expect youth to grow into useful, productive
citizens of our society unless they have had satis-
factory recreational opportunities. We must build
new facilities, both within and near our great urban
conglomerations. Also. we must provide compe-
tent recreational leadership. . . . \‘Ve know today
that recreation is a matter of more than park space
and play equipment—it is participation in group
enjoyment and group activity, deveIOpment of
handcrafts, hobbies, community enterprises, danc-
ing, and organized athletic events. The desire of
all to enjoy and use natural locations of scenic
beauty alone or in company must be recognized
and satisfied. \Ve have made a beginning, espe-
cially in recent years, toward achieving these ends.
In the post-war period we shall have new oppor-
tunities to bring recreational facilities and ser-

vices to all.

“Other service activities must also be planned.
\Vith increasing leisure and advancing standards

of living there will unquestionably be greater de-'

mands for library services. Our modern civiliza-
tion has already taken important steps toward
making art, music, and the theater a part of the
life of all citizens, instead of a luxury for a few,
as in past periods of man’s history. \Ve must
promote the development of our artistic resources
and their universal enjoyment. The use of our
special skills in scientific and specialized investi-
gation has already contributed notably to our
technological advancement. Our hopes for an ever
higher standard of living depend in no small part
upon the continued support of scientific research
and free inquiry.”

Responsibility for planning for the post-war
period is not an obligation alone of the Federal
government. “It is vital to democracy that plan-
ning for the development of local areas be done by
the citizens of those areas and their governmental
agencies.” The following steps are suggested as
aids in the preparation of local plans:

(a) A summary of available data on needs and
resources.

(b) An analysis of the area.

(c) Preparation of a “shelf” of public works
and activities.

((1) Advance preparation of construction plans
and estimates.

Advice and assistance in carrying out these

steps are attainable through the Board and its
field offices.

DEVELOPING OUR NATIONAL RESOURCES .

Federal Public Works Planning

A major section of the report is devoted to a
review of public works planning as carried on by
various Federal agencies. Reference is made to
prolonged investigations of the Special Joint Con-
gressional Committee on Forestry which has sub-
mitted recommendations “which will have a pro-
found effect on forest-planning procedures if they
are enacted into law.” Land-planning activities of
the National Park Service include the survey of
recreational resources of the Colorado River Basin
which the Service is conducting with a view to
assuring that the internationally known recrea-
tional resources of the Basin will receive full rec-
ognition in any plans for the coordinated deveIOp-
ment of that watershed. The Director of Recreation
of the Office of Defense, Health, and Welfare
Services is a member of the Program Planning
Committee established in the Federal Security
Agency to give attention to the preparation of
post-emergency plans and programs of public
works in the fields of public health, education, and
recreation.

Functional Development Policies

Part III of the report contains a number of
statements prepared by special staff groups lead-
ing to the development of policy in various fields
of national resources. Recreation is considered
along with transportation, industrial location,
energy, manpower, social security, and other sub-
jects. Recreation lands and facilities are included
in the section relating to the evaluation of public
works programs and recreational services are
treated at length in the section relating to post-
war planning for children and youth. Recreation
is also recognized as having a place. in the plans
for the development of forests, drainage basinl,
and land and water areas for the protection and
development of fish and wildlife.

Recreational Lands. The statement on ream-
tional lands outlines the important types of areas
that are needed for a diversified recreation pro‘
gram and suggests principles for evaluating recas-
ational projects.

“Recreation must be considered as an integd
part of any land management conservation pro-
gram and a human requirement for productive ef-
ficiency and health. The general objective of a
recreational program is to provide 'all forms 0‘
recreational opportunities, by means of public and
private effort, to meet the needs of all the people.

“Land is necessary for all recreation and is

 

DEVELOPING OUR NATIONAL RESOURCES 627

required in rela-
ti v e l y la r g e
amounts for out—
door recreation.
Th e U n i t e d
States has large
acreages of land
available for this
purpose. There
are available for
development for
recreational use
u p w a r d s o f
3 0 0 , o o o , 0 o 0
acres, or almost
onensixth of the
area of the coun-
try.

“The objective
of a public works program
in the recreation field is to
acquire or reserve, and to pro-
vide improvements on, as much
of this land as is needed to place adequate rec-
reational facilities within reach of every citi-
zen. A program for outdoor recreation de-
velopment suggested by agencies concerned
with recreation includes the following specific

requirements :

“In urban areas there should be neighborhood
playgrounds within easy walking distance (not
more than a quarter of a mile) of all children;
playfields 'and neighborhood centers within half a
mile of all citizens; parks or other areas charac-
terized by natural or man-made beauty, sufficient
in extent so that wear and tear will not be such
as to render the cost of maintenance of their at-
tractive features prohibitive, and sufficient in num-
ber so that all citizens may enjoy them occasion—
ally; protection of urban and suburban streams
from pollution and ‘uglifying’ uses; and park-
ways along waterways to connect major units of
the recreational-area system.

“For holiday and week-end use by city people
and by those who live in thickly populated or in-
tensively cultivated rural areas, there is need for
public recreational areas where picnicking, water
sports, day and overnight camping, hiking, and
other related activities may be enjoyed, and
which are sufficiently large to provide those who
use them with a sense of freedom and of separa-
tion from crowds. At least one such area should
be located within twenty-five miles of those for

 

There is need for public recreation
areas located near thickly populated
districts where picnicking, fishing
and water sports may be enjoyed

whom they are
chiefly provided.
Somewhat simi-
lar facilities,
probably more
widely spaced,
lik e wise are
needed by resi-
dents of more
sparsely popu-
lated rural areas.

“For vacation
use by all the
population there
are needed ex-
tensive public
holdings in all
those parts of the
country charac-
terized by forests, rugged ter-
rain, lakes and streams, or any
combination of these character-
istics. In those areas where
mountainous and other wilderness areas are not
available, there should be provided, wherever pos-
sible within about 200 miles of all urban centers,
recreational areas possessing an interesting ter-
rain, fair forest cover that will steadily improve
under proper protection and management, and
fiowing waters valuable for a variety of recrea-
tional uses.

“Because of the extraordinary recreational
value of ocean, lake, and river frontage, there
should be provided for recreational use an ade-
quate proportion of the country’s ocean frontage,
of the shore line of the Great Lakes, and of the
shores of other major lakes and streams. Distri-
bution of these areas should be directly related, so
far as possible, to the distribution of the popu-
lation.

“Areas containing scenery of such outstanding
distinction as to attract users from considerable
distances and in fair numbers should be in public
ownership and developed for public recreational
use. These are the areas such as make up the
national parks, national recreational areas, wilder-
ness areas, and some of the State parks. On the
same plane with the scenic areas are areas or
structures of outstanding historic, prehistoric, or
scientific significance.

“For specific recreational uses, parkways, trail-
ways, routes of water travel, and wayside resting
places along major highways suggest themselves

628 DEVELOPING OUR NATIONAL RESOURCES

as important in rounding out and completing our
public recreational system. In addition, certain
public works, such as mosquito control, on privately
owned land may facilitate the development of land
and water areas for recreational purposes. Addi-
tional highway construction frequently is re-
quired to make newly developed recreational areas,
both public and private, accessible to centers of
population. Educational or demonstration projects
in the construction and operation of inns, taverns,
and service stations along trunk highways between
centers of population and large recreational areas
might serve to improve such facilities and services
under private operation, and thus increase the
popularity of such areas.

“Agencies concerned with recreation at all levels
of government should be encouraged to acquire
lands as rapidly as their need is determined.
Advance acquisition not only places an agency in
a position to take advantage of a works program
but it also frequently means a considerable saving
in the purchase price.

Evaluation Principles for
Recreational Projects. “While
the principle that benefits
should exceed costs applies
to public works projects on
recreational land as well as
to those on other types of
land, determination of the
benefits of recreation in monetary terms is difficult.
Public works in the recreational field increase the
national well-being through development of rec-
reational resources and provision of recreational
opportunities. There are also indirect benefits such
as watershed and wildlife protection, provision of
permanent employment, stimulation to business in
neighboring communities, and increase in value
of adjoining lands. Although these benefits have
a real economic value, no method as yet has been
devised to measure them in dollars and cents. If
it is determined that 'the preservation of a par-
ticular area is in the public interest or that the
provision of certain facilities is required to meet
the recreational needs of a given community or
region, then reasonable expenditures to accomplish
such ends are justified. A public works project
proposal for recreation should make a reasonable
showing of the necessity for preservation of a par-
ticular area, however, or should show that a pro-
ject for provision of recreational facilities will be
justified by full use.

“In the field of technical soundness, the ade-

"Children and youth cannot be kept in
storage. . . . Growing children need fresh
air, sunshine, good food. room for liv-
ing._opportunity for play and schooling
that will give them the rudiments of
social organization and develop their
native abilities as rapidly as possible."

quacy of plans and supervisory personnel. the
availability of materials and equipment, and the
ability of the administering agency to operate and
maintain the developments are of first importance.

“Recreational public works of course should be
coordinated with public works programs in other
fields. There are frequent opportunities to pro-
vide needed recreational facilities in conneCIion
with power, irrigation, flood control, and forestry
and wildlife projects, with relatively little additional
expenditure.

“In rural areas, high priority should be given
to the preservation and protection of outstanding
natural recreational resources, where such re-
sources are in danger of destruction or loss to the
public. In urban communities, playgrounds for
children in congested districts, small in-town parks
serving as rest and relaxation places in congested
districts, large parks for driving, picnicking. golf-
ing, etc., and parkways ordinarily should stand in
the order named on the list of priorities.

“The Federal Government
should bear the cost of rec—
reational development in areas
which qualify as national
parks and monuments, and
in other Federal areas, such
as national forests and wild—
life refuges. The States
should bear at least the greater
portion of the cost of acquisition and development
of recreational areas that are patronized primarily
by their own-residents. Local governments, in—
cluding all political subdivisions of the State, should
be responsible for supplying and administering
day and week-end recreational facilities for local
residents. Federal aid and cooperation often are
desirable, however, to make available to them the
benefits of the findings and experience of Federal
agencies and other States, and for the purpose of
providing adequate recreational facilities where
local governments are financially unable to do 50.”

Neighborhood Planning. In the section on Urban
Conservation Development, inadequate play space
is listed as one of the reasons why people object
to living in the large city. Importance is attached
to rebuilding of our cities by neighborhoods rather
than by square blocks. “The guiding concept which
is gaining wide acceptance as an ideal in city re-
building is that of the neighborhood: an area freed
from the divisive forces of through trafiic with a
circulatory system designed for its internal needs,
supplied with its own play spaces, schools, health

DEVELOPING OUR NATIONAL RESOURCES 029

center, places of assembly
for worship and civic dis-
cussion, and its own retail
shops. . . . With the accept—
ance of the neighborhood
concept . . . we can propose
the tearing down not only
of substandard residences
but of decrepit warehouses
and dank sweatshops; we
can plan to replace them by
schools, playgrounds, park
lots, markets, shops, resi-
dences, work places—all the
appropriately placed ele-
ments of integrated com-
munities. . . . The challenge
to our city rebuilders is to
provide the opportunity for
free mingling of all groups
in our democratic society
without forcing a drab uni-

formity or the loss of those
cultural diversities that have
enriched our urban, indeed our

national, life.”

The Need of Flexibility. The

possibility is suggested that our

national transportation system will be revamped
after the war and the population shifts growing
out of the war require a flexibility in post-war
development programs. “With these changes we
may establish a new relation between city and

country that can enrich
the possibilities of edu—
cation and recreation.
The neighborhood will
provide the meeting
places, playgrounds and
quiet open spaces close
at hand, but the great
wilderness will be
brought within easy
reach of the average city
dweller.

“(Even now a long
summer week-end holi—
day takes I, 500,000 peo—
ple out of their custom—
ary orbit in New York
City—including I 3 5,000
to a. public ocean beach
forty miles away, and

 

3'6 e 39.33: P

Courtesy Sherwood Forest Camp

Camping has many a new experience
to offer boys and girls. It may
be gathering native materials and
making articles from them. Or it
may even be learning how to cook!

 

I 00,000 to an interstate
mountain reservation fifty
miles away.) We have made
only a beginning in a few
cities toward realizing the
possibilities of camping for
city children, indeed for
whole families. Nor should
we overlook the recreational
and educational value of this
freer interchange to the
country dweller, to whom
the zoological gardens, the
museums, theaters, and
arenas of the city are ren-
dered accessible.”

Planning for Children
and Youth

"Children and youth can-
not be kept in storage.”
These words open the sec-

tion prepared under the direc-
tion of Floyd XV. Reeves and
Paul R. Hanna relating to
postwar planning for children
and youth, in which major
consideration is given to the
recreational needs of these groups. “Growing
children need fresh air, sunshine, good food, room
for living, opportunity for play, and schooling that
will give them the rudiments of social organization
and develop their native abilities as rapidly as

possible.

“As children emerge
into adolescence and ap—
proach the threshold of
adulthood their needs
assume a different char-
acter. They face the all-
important task of choos-
ing a life-work and pre-
paring for it. Leisure
interests change. Both
boys and girls need op-
portunity for outdoor
sports and pastimes in
order that they may de-
velop vigorous bodies.
They need new forms
of social recreation ap
propriate to their new

Courtesy Sherwood Forest Camp interest in each other.

630 DEVELOPING OUR NATIONAL RESOURCES

 

Courtesy C Ievelaud Metrppolitan Parks

Intellectual horizons expand. Interest awakens in
other people, other places, other things—in fiction,
biography, travel, in cultural activities, in making
things with the hands. They need access to well-
stocked libraries, to workshops. They need the
guidance of sympathetic, informed adults through
clubs and young people’s organizations. Increas—
ingly they need opportunities to be of service to
others.

Recreation. “An important part of the well-
being of young people is concerned with the use
they make of leisure. Their physical development,
the acquisition of skill in social relations, the
broadening of their intellectual horizons, and their
degree of concern for the general welfare depend
in no small measure upon what they do when they
are free to follow their own interests.

“The opportunities young people have for the
constructive and satisfying use of leisure are de-
termined'largely by the means available to all
members of the community. Commercial facilities
are widely distributed. Some afi’ord worth-while
opportunities; a few are harmful; many simply
consume time and money. Non-profit-seeking
forms of recreation, both under public and under
private auspices, are a substantial part of the fa-
cilities for occupying leisure in many communi-

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  

ties. They tend to be. provided in increasing
quantity.

“It is important that the needs of young people
be kept well to the front in all considerations of
general recreational development, but they can
seldom be the controlling factor. There are. how-
ever, certain areas in which post-war planning for
use of leisure can concentrate upon the require-
ments of children and youth. These center about
the school, public recreational facilities particularly
for young- people, and the various private agencies
working for the welfare of children and youth.

“The schools have a major interest in recrea-
tion. Education and recreation share the same gen-
eral aims, and in their more progressive forms
their techniques bear a marked resemblance. In
nursery school and kindergarten, training is con-
ducted almost wholly through appeal to voluntary
interests. In the upper grades leisure activities
have tended to become departmentalized and segre-
gated from more formal education, but they remain
of considerable educational importance.

“Schools contribute greatly to the recreational
life of young people. They teach subjects likely to
stimulate permanent leisure interests, such as in-
dustrial arts, fine arts, and the appreciation of
drama and literature. They encourage non-class-
room activities, not only athletics but the numer-
ous special interest groups dealing with arts, crafts,
and other hobbies. They sometimes make their
facilities available for community recreational use.

“The extent to which leisure activities are de-
veloped under school auspices varies greatly. Lar .
numbers of children and youth attend scho
where inadequate facilities and an overwork
staff result in little attention being given to t
numerous beneficial activities that can be made '
grow out of the regular school program. The in
presence of a vigorous program of leisure acti
ties is, however, no guarantee that school resour
are being adequately exploited. Students who - .
unteer for athletics, hobby clubs, craft groups, t
atrical performances, social gatherings, and :
ticularly the students who are elevated to positi
of leadership in these activities, are generally th
who have the least need for encouragement alo
these lines. Means should be found to enlist t
participation of the children and youth who wo
benefit most from the stimulus such activities p!
vide. The schools should also recognize that boy
and girls have an urgent need for guidance in the
use of the three media that bulk so large in their

DE I 'EI.OI’I.\*'U 0 CR ATA'I‘IUNJL RESOURCES 031

leisure, the motion picture, the radio, and con-
temporary reading matter.

“An immediate and substantial recreational gain
for children and youth in school, as well as for
many out of school, could be effected if the edu-
cational authorities would keep their playgrounds
open after school hours, on week ends, and espe—
cially during the summer months. Opportunities
for adequately supervised play are too few in
cities, and summer is the time when the outdoors
beckons most insistently. Unfortunately, just at
this period the agency that more than any other
occupies the time of the children and youth during
the rest of the year leaves them to their own
devices.

“Camping is another activity that could prol‘lt-
ably be developed by the schools. Its high educa-
tional values have been well recognized for years.
Indeed, it is remarkable that so little progress has
been made in promoting school camps. The cost
of camping is a serious obstacle, but the cost of
the heaviest item, the initial construction, could
often be met in part through emergency labor.
Food costs can be lowered by the use of surplus
commodities. Much of the work of building, main-
taining, and operating a camp can be done appro—
priately and competently by older students, as part
of a school work program.

“\Vhile summer is the
most popular time for

The schools of America have a major interest
in recreation and have much to contribute to

camping, there is no inherent reason why the per-
iod could not be extended in most parts of the
country. VVeek-end camping during the school
term is easily possible, and it should not be diffi-
cult to arrange the school program so that par-
ticular groups of students could attend camp for
extended periods at other times’ than in the sum-
mer. Here is a large field of expansion to be
undertaken in the post-war period.

“The primary goal in the future development of
school recreation should be to complete the break-
ing down of the barrier separating classroom and
extra-classroom activities. The schools should
recognize that young people have an acute and
continuing need to organize their leisure time so
that it contributes effectively to their total well-
being. A school program of leisure activities ought
to embrace physical, social, creative, and cultural
interests. It should provide instruction, guidance,
and practice in the intelligent use of leisure. in-
terests which will carry over into adult life should
be emphasized. A serious effort should be made
to promote family recreation, in order that, to
some extent at least, the home may be restored to
the central position it once held in the recreational
life of young people. Particular attention should
be given disadvantaged groups of youth whose
leisure pursuits are often
characterized by excep—
tional inadequacy. These

the recreational life of our boys and girls

 

Courtesy American School and University

632 DEVELOPING OUR NATIONAL RESOURCES

would include the older adolescent, rural youth,

youth of lo“ -income families, and youth in Negro
and other minority racial groups.

“To a limited extent, many schools open their
auditoriums and classrooms, sometimes their gym-
nasiums and playgrounds, for general community
use outside of school hours. This practice, how-
ever, is often restricted by the difficulties of pro-
viding custodial care, the expense of heat and light,
and the cost of repairing damaged property. Many
organizations that could make worthy use of school
facilities have very limited resources and are un—
able to arrange terms satisfactory to the local
educational authorities.

“A larger conception by school administrators
and boards of education of their function in the
community should be acquired. The schools have
an obligation toward the fifty per cent of youth
who drop out before graduation from high school.
They can meet it best through encouraging all
varieties of informal education. Recreational ac-
tivities are one of the most effective kinds of in-
formal education. It would be appr0priate for
schools not only to meet the small additional ex—
pense of keeping their facilities open beyond the
normal school hours but also to provide leadership
for community groups wishing to use them.

“The schools have a responsibility for making
their services available to the whole community.
In some places this responsibility has been so fully
accepted by the public schools that they have be-
come the sole public recreation authority. It is
not necessary or, indeed, advisable that schools
everywhere develop into the major public recrea-
tional agency in their communities, but they should
stand ready, particularly in rural areas and small
towns, to assume this role when the necessary
leadership is not supplied from other sources.
Schools everywhere should become active commu-
nity centers. New school buildings should be de-
signed with this purpose in view. It ought to be
accepted as axiomatic that the community that gets
the most from its schools is the community that
uses them the greatest number of hours each day

and serves the greatest portion of its constituency.

“The relations of the schools to the other recre-
ational agencies of the community should be close
and cordial. Full acceptance by the schools of the
responsibility for developing the maximum recrea—
tional use of their own buildings and equipment
will make it unnecessary for other public agencies
to undertake part of the task. For schools to
assist freely in a public recreation program is de-

  
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
  
    
  
   
 
  
     
    
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  

sirable not only in the working out ot adnnms

trative details, but, if possible, in the financing ‘.
activities.

“Schools ought to diSplay an energetic helpful
ness toward private recreation agencies opera ' ' j
non-profit-seeking programs. There shoul'd be no
zealous guarding of school facilities for school pur-
poses only. They should be made readily and W'
ineg available for every legitimate use. Schoois
must realize that many other agencies are work
ing for the welfare of young pe0p1e and the com—
munity at large, and that the general purposes for
which the schools exist may be served by aidi

these agencies to function effectively.

Municipal Recreafion Services. “In many cities
and some smaller communities the leisure re-
sources available to children and youth through
the schools are supplemented to an important de-
gree by the facilities maintained by municipal d
partments of recreation. Of greatest concern
young pe0ple are play areas of various sizes . -
uses and indoor recreation centers. The need f
facilities of these kinds has been carefully studied,

and accepted standards exist by which their ad
quacy can be measured.

“An urban community that makes suitable pr
vision for the leisure activity of its children wi
have a small neighborhood play lot in every bk)
of its thickly populated residential areas. It '
provide supervised playgrounds of from three
seven acres equipped with various types of n.
paratus, one to each thousand persons. There °
be playfields of from ten to twenty acres withi
mile of every home, where special tracts may -'
laid off for baseball, football, running, bowl'
tennis, and other sports requiring considera
space. Each residential area should contain .
indoor recreation center equipped with gy
nasium, swimming pool, club rooms, and w

shops for pursuing hobbies and other sp
interests.

“In most cities little more than a beginning
been made toward meeting these standards. '1
need for children’s playgrounds is especially ac .
The ninety-four cities of 100,000 or more pop
tion spent in 1938 an average of only $1.72
capita for all the services that municipal depar‘
ments of recreation provide, plus the upkeep
parks, museums, and other Special features. T
suggested minimum standard for these services i
$3.00 per capita. Nearly half the cities of from ten
to fifty thousand inhabitants have no public recre-

DEVELOPING OUR NATIONAL RESOURCES 633

ational authority at all, and among communities of
from five to ten thousand the pr0portion is less
than one in four.

“The achievements of many public-spirited
towns and counties have demonstrated that small
size or low density of population need not be a bar-
rier to the development of adequate leisure oppor-
tunities for children, youth, and, indeed, the whole
pOpulation. Every community has numerous un-
tapped resources that can be drawn together and
welded into a full, functioning program. Initiative
and intelligent leadership, the elements most
needed, are likely to be found locally when the
need is realized.

Private Community Agencies. “A large part of
the recreational opportunities available to young
people is supplied by private community agencies.
Organizations such as the Boy Scouts, the Girl

Scouts, the Camp Fire Girls, the Y.M.C.A. and
Y. W. C. A., and the Boys

Clubs of America have ac-

agencies are not opposed to each other in any
essential respect. Historically, they have Supple-
mented one another. Both are needed and both
must be supported.

“A major goal of the private recreational agen-
cies should be to reach more of the older youth.
Techniques successful in late childhood and early
adolescence seem to lose much of their appeal at
about the age of sixteen. Relatively few of the
youth-serving organizations are able to carry a
high proportion of their effective membership be-
yond this age. Studies have indicated that between
sixteen and twenty-four not more than one youth
in five or six belongs to any organized group out-
side the school or church.

“The private organizations should strive vigor—
ously to reach young people in the lower-income
groups. This is already the avowed aim of some
organizations, such as the boys’ clubs, the Salva-
tion Army, and the settle-
ments, but they would be the .

quired the status of national
institutions, churches, frater-
nal orders, labor groups, set-
tlement houses, and civic or-
ganizations, assist youth in
many ways to employ their
leisure profitably. Some of
these have separate junior
departments in their member-

"Increase the support of municipal de-
partments of recreation and establish
such agencies in all communities of any
considerable size. Provide play lots.
playgrounds. playing fields. and indoor
recreation centers which in quality and
quantity meet the accepted standards
for these facilities. Make supervision and
guidance in the use of recreational facili-
ties much more widely available." Rec-
ommendation from I942 Report of the
National Resources Planning Board.

first to admit that their com-
bined efforts are inadequate
for the task. Most youth or-
ganizations have been notably
unsuccessful in extending
their services to the great
numbers of young people in
the underprivileged classes.
It is essential that adequate

ship; others, though not en-
rolling young pe0ple, fre-
quently interest themselves in some special project
of recreational value to children and youth.

“There is a variety of organizations for rural
youth, some having a separate existence, others
being adjuncts of adult organizations. Two of the
largest are the 4-H Clubs and the Future Farmers
of America. Though they are sponsored by
branches of the Federal Government, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and the United States Office
of Education, respectively, they may be considered
to be private community agencies in that their
support and a large part of their direction come
from the local communities in which they are
formed.

“In post-war planning for children and youth
an important place should be reserved for private
agencies working in the recreation field. Although
they do not have the universal coverage possessed
by the public schools, they perform functions in
some respects unique and are likely to remain
indispensable. Public and private recreational

recreational opportunities be
brought to underprivileged
children and youth.

“Another major goal toward which private
agencies should work is to make their services
available to young people in rural areas. The or-
ganizations particularly for rural youth have done
much to meet this need, but few if any of the
other youth-serving agencies have gone beyond the
predominantly urban character of their programs.

“Finally, the youth work of many voluntary
agencies has suffered from too detailed manage-
ment by adults. Young people acquire a sense of
responsibility and the development of character
when they assist in planning their own group
activities. Adolescent youth wishes to manage its
own affairs. This is convincingly demonstrated by
the multiplication of ‘cellar clubs,’ where young
peOple provide their own unsupervised entertain-
ment. Unnecessary intrusion of adult leadership
is probably responsible for a large part of the

(Continued on page 645) _

What They Say

N X a DEMOCRACY society must recognize that the
I individual has rights that are guaranteed, and
the individual, that he has responsibilities
which are not to he evaded.”—Harry lVoodburn

Chase.

"Joy in physical recreation may be compounded
of many elements including pleasure in actual ac-
tivity, relaxation and change, p‘leasant surround-
ings, companionship, anticipation, and memory.
There is satisfaction in doing well some physical

thing."-—-Dudlc_v B. Read, MD.

"Even in times like these the universal language
of music is counted upon to be heard above the
hatreds that are tearing at the world.”—From
Think Magazine, June 1942.

“Nothing will grow on bare city streets; why
expect good character to grow there? The de-
velopment of good citizenship cannot be left to
accident. The sort of character boys achieve is
determined in large part by their activities, asso—
ciates, and environment.”-——Jacob Riis.

“One cannot live a completely happy life apart
from nature. . . . Except we remain as little chil—
dren we miss much of the purest joy of living.”—
I. R. Dymond in editorial in Canadian Nature.

“Will the larger leisure mean benefit or destruc-
tion for the masses of peOple who possess it? Will
it be accepted in a big way, and consciously, as a

glorious opportunity to enrich our democratic way
of life i‘”—Eugcnc '1'. Lies.

“Nothing is more steadying and uplifting than
the power of music. lleauty, truth, and goodness
are the ultimates of life, and they must be main-
tained. Music reenforces us with values which are

invisible and eternal.’°—-—-l)r. Ralph W. Soc/aman
in The Etude Music .llagazz'nc.

“To foster conditions that widen the horizon of
others and give them command of their own

powers so that they can find their own happiness

in their own fashion is the way of social action."—
John Dewey.

634

About Recreation

  
    
 
     
  
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
    
  

“As to method in recreational guidance 11 -
not be dogmatic; we cannot force peop
must be won. I want to say a word for r
as sheer fun. There are imponderables in
fun. Nor can we distinguish all times b a
passive and active diversions. Both have
place in life.”—Ezra H/hiting IV hitc.

III-

“Play has a distinct therapeutic value in 11
life. The nearer work comes to being play.
more chance man has to survive the presm

about him.”-——Alice V. K clihcr.

“When a man‘s thoughts and deeds take
attention from the dull demands of every day i
the realm of the less tangible arts or into c w
munion with his fellow men, he is approaching

area which may be called spiritual.”—Josep '
L. Rat/thong. a

“Democracy is a way of life and social orga
zation which above all others is sensitive to
dignity and worth of the individual human pers
ality, recognizing no barriers of race, religion, I.
circumstances.”-—From Education for Dcmocra

“By providing a healthy outlook for emotio
strain, by helping to maintain a steady Spirit
mental balance, and a physical reserve, recreati
plays a tremendous part in maintaining mor
‘The morale of a people,’ as President Roose
aptly sums it up, ‘is an essential supplement
their guns and planes.’ ”

“Equipment is not a substitute for chara
spirit, determination, dash, and a will to succ
Physical fitness is a great asset for the nation,
all types of sports and games should be prom
on a large scale under competent leadership .
supervision.”—-—F. S. Mathewson.

“I wonder if this is not true—that there
certain things, happening to any man who par ::
pates in some sport, which help to build up wit
him a type of pride and confidence that perhaps
not created within him by any other source."
Thurston J. Davies.

 

 

“' f  ‘ ,_M“.1c~....,__hu Hmm‘ '_
Courtesy Madison Square Boys’ Club

Overdoing Activities

ARELY DOES a trained recre-
R tional leader admit that his
program overdoes one rec-
reational skill or activity, al-
though the majority of us are guilty of this at
some time or other.

It is easy to overdo an activity, especially when
it becomes'a “habit” for the leader to open the
door of a boys’ club, community center, or play-
ground. After the lock is unlatched and the door
swung open, the events are the same day in and
day out with an occasional special event sand—
wiched in at intervals. The program of the or—
ganization becomes merely the unlocking of the
front door.

Activities must be progressive. There must be
a challenge to the participant to move ahead, a
stimulating drive that will bring him happiness and
enjoyment, Vi’hen the activity becomes stalemated,
it is being overdone.

For years it has been the custom of the Madi-
son Square Boys’ Club in New York City to take
every child who dressed up in
costume for the club’s annual
Thanksgiving Day parade to an
uptown theater in the afternoon.
It became routine for the boy to

By ROBERT J. BRENNAN

Madison Square Boys' Club
New York City

"The happyI interested man can
perform three times as much work
as the drudge with less fatigue."

—Frankwood Williams.

climb into a bus and ride to a
theater, see a movie, and return.
This year the club held the
Thanksgiving Day movie in
their auditorium, serving refreshments at the end
of each reel. The staff asked which the boys
preferred—the movie at the club with refresh-
ments or a bus ride and movie at a large theater.
Seventy—five per cent of the boys voted for the
party at the club, although every boy saw a free
movie in this same auditorium every Friday! The
trip to an uptown theater had been overdone. It
was a new thrill for the boys to eat pop-corn and
candy during a club movie. Just a new twist to
an old event which had been overdone.

Several years ago a very unhealthy situation
arose at the Iowa City, Iowa. Recreation Center.
The center stayed open long hours with a small
staff. After a while the center became a “hang
out” for the participant; just a place to pass away
some time. The value which he received from the
center became negligible. At the same time the
leader became overworked, fa-
tigued, bored, and very irritable.
Program became for him the
opening the front door and the
staying on duty until the clock

635

636 OVERDOING ACTIVITIES

struck the closing hour. It is healthier to underdo
an activity rather than overdo it. Then the “drive”
or “want” of the participant is not completely sat-
isfied, and he retains an interest which will bring
him back again. The activity still challenges the

individual.

Effect on Participant

Three undesirable things happen to the partici-
pant when an activity is overdone:

I. The motivating force to bring this person
back for more activity is lost. If an individual con-
tinues to return without a motivating force over
a period of time, your organization may become
a “hang-out” for this individual or his gang. This
situation can be justified on the grounds that it
is better for the group to “hang out” in your quar-
ters than in pool rooms, alleys, or street corners.
But every trained leader has a more far-sighted
objective than this. He wants to give the partici-
pant something which will challenge him and bring
him back.

2. Lack of appreciation for your organization
will develop. The organization, staff, and facili-
ties will be taken for granted. There must be a
continual educational process between the organi—
zation and the participants if appreciation is to be
maintained.

3. The overdoing of activities will fail to bring
happiness or enjoyment to the participant. The
individual, who is taking part in your program
will fail to release his emotional reserves or strain
because the activity never progresses beyond a
given stage or level. The activity fails to chal-
lenge the participant, create additional interest, or
stimulate his imagination.

What Happens to the Leader?

Overdoing activities also reacts unfavorably on
the leader.

I. The leader’s drive or initiative is lost. His
work becomes routine, just officiating at a game
or keeping order in a game room with the cus-
tomary hello and good-bye as each individual en-
ters or leaves the room. The drive to plan special
parties and events is lost.

2. The leader ceases to enjoy his work. One of
the rewards of a recreation leader is the happy
responses of the participants—“Gee, I had a good
time tonight” or “Let’s do that again.” Such re-

sponses as these stimulate the leader to plan new
activities. But if the people who use the organi-

zation’s facilities day in and day out never give
any responses as to whether they had a good time
or not, the stimulation for the leader to progress

and plan disappears.

3. The leader gets himself into a routine or rat
which is a detriment to himself and the organiza-
tion for which he works. His work becomes a
habit, automatic. This boredom can reach the
stage where the leader used his mental processes
only to figure out the minimum amount of work

he can get away with.

Another factor which will lead to this third
stage is overwork. The recreational leader must
work constantly with people. He must be as diplo-
matic as possible. He must have enthusiasm, spirit
for his work. He must be fresh, not stale, when he

comes to work.
A majority of organizations today have smaller

‘staffs than in normal times and the personnel

problem will become more acute as the war con-
tinues. As the duties of leaders increase, there is
the danger of overwork and boredom. '

Measuring the Results

Leaders can use participants as a barometer to
indicate good and bad features of an activity. The
responses of participants at the end of a program
are a yardstick for measuring satisfaction and
happiness. Happy responses will stimulate the
leader to plan'bigger and better activities. From
the frank opinions of participants the leader learns
what elements "of his activities must be eliminated,
and what elements can be improved and developed.

N Much of the athletic coach’s work is measured
by the percentage column at the end of the season.
This means that he is forced by pressure of an
alumni association, fans, or some other groups
to produce winning teams. He is forced to overdo
the sport which he coaches.

The recreational leader’s work has no such yard-
stick against which his work is measured. The
important thing is the amount of enjoyment the
leader finds in doing his work, the amount of
happiness the participant receives, and the intan-
gible thing which the leader can or hopes to con-
tribute to the participant. A recreation leader has
no reason or pressure for overdoing any one
activity.

“It is better to have a short snappy party that
sends the players home wishing for more, than one
that drags.”-—-From Parties—Plans and Programs.

 

Recreation in a

By WILLIAM H. CAMPBELL

Recreation Division
Board of Park Commissioners

When a deluge of war industries
almost doubled Wichita's population
its summer program was transformed
into a year-round recreation service

WICIIITA, KANSAS, is a war-boom city

which had its beginnings as a

frontier town on the old Chisholm
Trail. Like many another American city,
, it grew steadily and normally through the
years, anticipating and meeting the usual
community problems and coming into the
1940’s with a population of more than
I 14,000.

Then suddenly a deluge of war indus-
tries came to \Vichita. Its population sky-
rocketed to 227,000 in a two-year period
and the figure is still going up. Where
it will level off is only a guess.

This 98 per cent increase in population has re-
sulted in a multitude of community problems, and
of these recreation was, and is, one of the major
concerns. The Board of Park Commissioners has
the responsibility of providing public recreation in
\Vichita, and this responsibility has increased in
direct proportion to the growth of the city’s war
industries.

Many of the industrial workers in this Kansas
city are young people only a year or two removed
from farms and small towns of the Midwest. They
are not accustomed to group activities or any form
of regimentation. Most of them have come from
communities where everyone was acquainted with
everyone else as a matter of course. These people
have always been free to do and go as they please,
but with the introduction of gas rationing, all of
this has been changed over night.

W ichita’s recreation program has been planned
to meet the anticipated needs of such groups. Peo-
ple from farms and small towns are usually handy

Ka nsas Bgom Town

 

with tools; they are active and enjoy doing things.
This would all be denied them because of lack of
space and equipment in city homes unless such
facilities are provided through a community agency.

Some Place to Go

Many of the newcomers have heretofore lived
among lifelong friends. These people need places
to go where they can make new friends and join
in group activities. There must be a way of in—
troducing them to their new community and neigh—
bors so that they may enjoy the fellowship that is
the normal part of community life. To meet this
need activities such as square dancing, family night
programs and group singing are planned and
provided.

There is a universal desire to feel that you
“belong.” Everyone wants a place where he may
spend his leisure hours playing games, reading, or
just sitting and talking with friends. With this in
mind, game facilities and lounging space have been

637

638 RECREATION IN A KANSAS BOOM TOWN

provided in all areas where
this is possible.

All of this planning had to
be done under pressure. The
recreation program had for-
merly consisted mainly of a
summer program. This has
been transformed into a year-
round program, and six com-
nnmity centers and three art
and craft areas supplement the
playground activities. \Vhen it was foreseen that
a winter program would be necessary, the ques-
tion of facilities and supervision arose. The most
logical answer to the problem of facilities was,
quite naturally, school buildings. The Board of
Education and the Board of Park Commissioners
have enjoyed years of cooperation during which
the Board of Park Commissioners landscaped and
maintained school grounds at the expense of the
Board of Education and the Board of Education
turned over school grounds to the Park Board to
be operated as summer playgrounds.

On the basis of this friendly relationship, an
agreement was worked out between these two
agencies so that the Park Board could use school
buildings for an evening recreation program for
adults. The cost of utilities and janitorial services
is paid by the Park Board which also furnishes
supervision—subject to the approval of the Board
of Education.

At the present time six school buildings are used
under this agreement, five as community program
centers and the sixth as a craft speciality center.

Supervision is obtained by employing school
teachers on a part-time basis. Whenever possible,
the teacher employed for evening work is a mem—
ber of the regular teaching staff of that particular
school. Naturally such a person is acquainted with
the people and their interests, and is more able to
give maximum service to the community. Addi-
tional leadership has been obtained from the \Vork
Projects Administration and through the use of
volunteers—many volunteers resulting from the
organization of neighborhood committees.

All of the school centers are open two nights a
week from 7 until 10 o’clock, with the exception
of Dunbar Center. This center is in the colored
section of the city and because of the great de-
mands upon this area, it is open from 7 until 10
o’clock Monday through Thursday each week.

The Minisa Park Neighborhood Center was
formerly a tourist camp which has been made over,

The author of this article makes no
claim that the recreation program as
now presented in Wichita is the
answer to the city's problem for. as
he says, "As yet the answer is not at
hand because many factors entering
into the matter are not completely
determined or sufficiently analyzed."

making available two buildings,
one for arts, crafts, and games,
and the other for large group
activities such as family night
programs and square dances.
This center is Open from I
P. M. until 10 P. M. daily ex-
cept Saturday and Sunday.

Because of the great num-
ber of newcomers in Wichita,
every effort is made to have a
scheduled activity or program available at all hours
when the centers are open. Thus the newcomer
will find some activity organized for him when he
arrives. After such a person “finds the center”
and becomes acquainted, he will return whenever
possible for informal activities such as games, read-
ing. or just lounging.

“Swing Your Partner”

Square dancing has steadily increased in popu-
larity, and a very large number of the young peo-
ple are engaging in this activity for the first time.
A square dance director is employed on a part—
time basis to present a weekly program at four of
the neighborhood centers. He organizes volunteer
callers and musicians as well as calling the dances
himself.

Once every second week a motion picture film
is presented in each of the six neighborhood cen-
ters. The films are released by the U. S. Office of
\Var Information and portray subject matter that
is timely and educational, After the picture, the
audience joins in community singing. This ac-
tivity is proving to be quite successful in intro-
ducing new people to the center.

Crafts are presented in each center, depending
upon the space and equipment available and com—
munity interest. Because of space limitations most
of the craft activities are limited to “portable”
activities such as sewing, stenciling, knitting, or
wood carving.

Three centers are devoted entirely to arts and
crafts. A woodwork shop is made available at
Robinson Junior High School where craftsmen
engage in furniture making and refinishing, up-
holstery, game and toy construction, and allied
activities. As in the other school centers, Robin-

‘ son is open three hours a night, two nights a week.

The Art Department at \Vichita University
operates on this same schedule and makes avail-
able all types of arts and crafts activities with the

(Continued on page 647)

 

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature—Grams

IRDS A T HOME,” Marguerite Henry.

Donohue and Co., Chicago. 88 pp., illus-
trated, $1.25. For children, with twelve color il—
lustrations by Jacob Bate Abbot.

“Birds, Attracting.” Conservation Bulletin No.
I, Bureau of Biological Survey, 1940. 15 pp., 5
cents. (Order from Superintendent of Documents,
W'ashington, D. C.) The responsibilities as well as
pleasures of this kind of recreation.

“Bird Refuges, Local.” Conservation Bulletin
No. 17, Fish and Wildlife Service, 1942. 17 pp.
10 cents. (Order from Superintendent of Docu-
ments.) Every park and home lot should be a bird
refuge.

Boston C lzildren's rlIuseum. Seven thousand,
eight hundred children (an increase of 96 per cent)
participated in organized museum activities in
July, 1942. The increase in the number of children
from the playgrounds who made all—day visits was
I45 per cent, and more than two and a half times
as many children came from settlement houses.
Two Boston playground teachers were assigned to
the museum for the summer.

Conservation. As long ago as 1899, in an article
on “Liberty Through Legislation,” Joseph Lee
recognized that if we are going to have any natural
objects to enjoy in the future we must conserve
what we have, use it sensibly, and pass it on to
future generations. He always hit the nail on the
head with a penetrating effect. In describing the
Assabet, a small river contaminated by dye, he

a list of titles. Here are a few: No. I76—“Trans—
planting Trees,” N0. 467—“Soil Erosion,” and
No. 562— “Wildlife B'Ianagement.”

Garden Pilgrimage. The eleventh annual Nat-
chez Pilgrimage, March I to April 1, to ante-bel-
lum houses under the auspices of the Pilgrimage
Garden Club in Natchez, Mississippi. The income
is used in a program of restoration and beautifica-
tion to preserve for posterity the Old South.
Spirituals sung in an old-time Negro church and
the Confederate Ball Tableaux have been likened

to “Oberammergau.”

Gardening. “Victory Garden.” A series of six
charts. Superintendent of Documents, Washing-
ton, D. C. 20 cents.

Gardens, Demonstration of Community. In
Chicago many civic clubs, such as, Kiwanis, PTA.
and Boy Scouts, ran six community gardens for
demonstration purposes. The Chicago Park Dis-
trict offered a series of lectures, the newspapers
ran gardening columns and issued booklets on
Victory Gardens, the libraries issued bibliogra-
phies, and the Victory Garden Committee of the
Office of Civilian‘ Defense listed vacant property.
The whole program is described in Victory Circu-
lar No. I of the Chicago Recreation Commission.

Nature Club News might be the title of the
“Muni Hiker-Biker,” the monthly publication of

the Department of Municipal Recreation, Milwau-
kee Public Schools, Mink on a Rock, Horses and

said, “The Assabet, the
beautiful blue Assabet—so
blue that its cerulean hue
rubs off on the grass.”
Films. For information
regarding loan or purchase
of films write to the U. S.
Department of Agriculture
in Washington, D. C. Films
of thirty-five to sixty
frames, at fifty cents a
strip, are popular for lec-
tures because of compact-
ness, light weight, and low
cost of projector. Send for

"The end of the apple tree. from our point of
view. is apples. But there is no use in talk-
ing apples to it in the spring. If you can pro-
tect its buds from frost and its leaves from
caterpillars. or can supply it better diet for
its roots. it will be grateful to you. and how-
ever little the bud or leaf or root may look
like apples to you. be sure that the tree knows
the way and the time. and that your best
contribution is in assisting nature in the path
she has marked out. Timeliness. as Emerson has
said. is the lesson of the garden. and it would
be a blessed thing if we would apply this les-
son to plants (children) whose growth is more
important. even. than that of roses or pota-
toes." —Josepb Lee in Play in Education.

Elm Tree, Making a Fire, Car Speed and Wild-

life, and ACombined Meet-
ing to Hear a Lecture on
Canadian \Vilds are some
of the titles in the 12-page
November issue. “Zip”
Morgan, I 758 North Ninth
Street, is the instigator of
all this for physical fitness.

His motto is “Sports for
All—HAll for Sports.”
“Nature Outlook, Woods,

Fields and Streams of New
England” is the title of a
new publication of the

( Continued on page 649)
639

WORLD
AT PLAY

He Built His Niece a
Playhouse

“'ORKING an average of five
hours a day, it took Emil Kukler,
a guard at the Mack Plant of
the Briggs Manufacturing Com-
pany, Detroit, Michigan, three
and a half months to build, fur-
nish, and equip this playhouse.
The house was Mr. Kukler’s '
birthday gift to his niece, who is seated on the
steps. It is completely furnished with miniature
pieces made by Mr. Kukler, and is wired with
electricity for lights, doorbell, radio, and an electric
heater in the fireplace.

Making toys and playthings for children has
long been Mr. Kukler’s hobby, but this is his
crowning achievement.

“\VARTIME Trends in
Delinquency, Neglect
and Foster Care” was

the subject of discus-
sion at the fourth public hearing on juvenile de-
linquency held in New York City under the
auspices of the State Department of Social Wel-
fare on December 14, 1942. The consensus of
opinion following the discussion, as reported in
Better Times for December 18, 1942, was: “There
has been an observable increase in juvenile delin-
quency over the past year in New York City and
throughout the country, but the situation has not
reached a critical stage, and a further study of
statistics will be necessary before a general trend
can be predicated. However, now is the time for

social welfare agencies to prepare to check such a
trend with careful planning and action.”

Juvenile Delinquency
in New York City

 

FIONAN .MACCOLUIM
of University College,
Dublin, writes that a
group in Dublin work-
ing in connection with the Irish Folklore Commis-

640

Community Singing
in Ireland

 

Courtesy Briggs Assembler, October 1942

sion is interested in developing community singing
of Irish folk songs, particularly in the Gaelic lan-
guage common to Eire. and Alba (Scotland).
“There are signs of our work growing into a na-
tional movement, since during the last few years
thirty or forty similar groups have organized under
the general title of ‘An Claisceadal’ and forty or
fifty leaflets of songs with airs have been pub-
lished, in addition to some thousands of multi-
graphed c0pies of the words.”

“GIGANTIC in the At-
lantic and terrific in
the Pacific” is the
catchy phrase which
won the war bond slogan contest on the Reading,
Pennsylvania, playgrounds last summer. The en—
trants gave their patriotism full sway, produced
some potent slogans: “Keep the Stars and Stripes
from becoming the Bars and Stripes”; “Keep
down the Axis and the taxes by buying War
Bonds and Stamps.”

Helping Uncle Sam
Raise Money

NEIGHBORHOOD play-
ground associations
are doing much to aid
the Department of
Public Playgrounds and Recreation in Reading,
Pennsylvania. At the annual business meeting of the
Playground Federation held on October 9, 1942, it
was reported that these associations have a total
of more than $4,000 in their treasuries. This

Local Associations
Aid Playgrounds

WORLD AT PLAY 641

money will be used to purchase and maintain
equipment and to provide welfare services and
other activities which cannot be financed by the
city budget.

“Fox Hunting” in Union County, N. J.—
Horseback riders in the parks of Union County,
New Jersey—and the Union County Park Com-
mission through its Recreation Division is doing
much to promote this sport—have enjoyed “fox
hunting”. in the form of a series of paper chases
which start at 3 :00 o’clock on Saturday afternoon
and are open to all riders. Two dollars per person
is charged for the use of a horse during the chase.

A Crafts Center for Men and Boys——Wood—
craft for men was greatly stimulated with the
opening of the Sylvia Allen Crafts Center in De-
troit, Michigan, where men or older boys could
drop in and work for a while, using the machinery
or hand tools. The center is open from 10:00
A .M. to 10:00 P. M. during the winter season and
from 2:00 P. M. to 10:00 P. M. during the summer.

“Camping Forward” -— Everyone interested
in camping will want to have a copy of the No-
vember-December, 1942, issue of The Camping
Magazine telling of the discussions at the meeting
of the American Camping Association held in
Washington and of conferences with government
officials. These reports are significant, pointing as
they do to wartime policies in camping and to
future trends, developments, and possible restric-
tions. Single copies of this issue may be secured
at 25 cents each from the American Camping As-
sociation, 343 South Dearborn Street, Chicago,
Illinois.

Special Tax for Band Music—It has been
reported that seventy-nine cities in Iowa have
under referendum authorized the levy of a special
tax for band music. This is the result of the en—
actment of a law a number of years ago which
authorized Iowa cities and towns to levy a Special
tax for this purpose.

Lions\Club Tackles Delinquency Problem—
The East Liberty, Pittsburgh, district was con—
fronted with a serious problem when the removal
of houses in Homestead to make way for defense
plants resulted in a great influx of families into the
low rental section of East Liberty. In these
families were large numbers of boys between the

ages of fifteen and twenty who had very few rec-
reational facilities. Faced with a growing problem
of delinquency, a group of civic-minded organiza-
tions, including the Lions Club in East Liberty,
formed a committee to cope with the situation.
One hundred and five boys were organized into
basketball leagues, meeting three times a week
under the direction of a senior from the University
of Pittsburgh, School of Physical Education. The
cost of the project was borne by the Lions Club
with the cooperation of a few other individuals.
To help raise money the Club gave a minstrel
show with an all-local cast. The sale of tickets,
individual contributions, and receipts from the
sale of program Space netted $1,700, which has
been set aside to carry on the Club’s work with
the problem of delinquency.

Bell-Ball—This game, copyrighted by Frances
Hallman, is a simple construction toy consisting
of a wicket on which a bell is suspended. The
player tries to ring the bell by rolling a number of
balls through the wicket. It has been approved for
children of preschool age by psychologists and
groups interested in activities for preschool chil-
dren. It can be used advantageously by crippled
and handicapped children. Older children and
grown—ups also enjoy it. Further information re-
garding the game may be secured from the Em—
bossing Company, Albany, New York.

At Plummer Park—Plummer Park in Holly-
wood, California, is one recreation center where
only activities of a social and cultural nature are
conducted. During the past year the County Rec—
reation Department has been able to sponsor at
the Park such organizations as the Junior Sym-
phony Orchestra, arts and crafts exhibits, flower
shows, early California fiestas, the Audubon So—
ciety, the History and Landmarks Society, garden
clubs, language classes, choral groups, community
dances, and dramatic groups. In addition to this
program, the buildings at Plummer Park have
provided meeting places for many group gather-
ings of a social nature, and attendance has in-
creased remarkably during the past year. '

Citizenship Clubs on Hamilton’s Playgrounds
—“Courtesy classes” which have been promoted
successfully for a number of years on the play-
grounds of Hamilton, Canada, have been expanded
in the interest of furthering good citizenship. A-
Citizenship Club has been organized on each of the

042 DR. CLARK IV. HETHERINGTON

city’s playgrounds. To be eligible for membership
.1 child must perform some act showing sportsman-
ship, courtesy, honesty, patriotism, cheerfulness,
friendliness. and a Spirit of cooperation on the
playground. Desirable traits of citizenship in con-
nection with family life are also recognized. After
a reasonable period the child who has shown these
characteristics is given a Citizenship Club mem-
bership card.

The competitive element has not been per-
mitted, awards being entirely on individual merit.
The success of this plan is evidenced by the sur—
prise of the boys and girls making the best records
when they are notified of their achievements.

The Canadian Business and Professional \Vomen’s
Club of Hamilton and the Hamilton Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce are cooperating in the plan.

The Lions Club Rebuilds Pool—VVhen the
Community swimming pool at Big Rapids, Michi—
gan, was destroyed overnight by a flood, the Lions
Club, backed by the whole community, raised over
$1,000 by subscription and put the pool back into
circulation. The Club is now working on an ice-
control unit and lighting for the pool so that it may
be used for skating all winter.

Last summer the Club held a picnic at the pool.
At this time it was formally presented to the com—
munity.

Rural Youth in Indiana—Rural Youth in
Indiana is a report of the survey made in live
Indiana counties by the Agricultural Experiment
Station of Purdue University, in c00peration with
the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture. More than 1,200 rural
youth, eighteen to twenty-eight years of age, living
in the open country, were interviewed by mem-
bers of the county rural youth organizations. Each
of the youth was asked two questions: “What are
your most important personal problems ?” and
“What are the principal present needs of the
young pe0ple in your community?” Although em-
ployment, recreational and social needs were
stressed, many answers revealed constructive
thought along other than economical or social lines.

“To the Aid of Your Party”—Y0ur ability to
identify people in the news, movie stars, advertis-
ing slogans, and trade-marks will be tested in this

game which is being distributed by the National
Association Service, Toledo, Ohio.

  
 

Dr. Clark W. Hetherington

    
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
  
  

ON DECEMBER 27, 1942, Dr. Clark W. Hether-
ington was stricken with a heart attack ant
died at Palo Alto, California, at the age of 7
years. He was a member of the pioneer graduat-
ing class at Stanford University in 1895, of whic
former President Herbert Hoover was also
member.

Dr. Hetherington was responsible for organ-i7.—
ing many projects in different sections of the coun—
try—playgrounds at the Whittier State School i1
California, the Department of Research and Statis—
tics at Whittier, certain research work at C1 .
University in Massachusetts, the Department 0
Physical Education and Athletics at the Univer—
sity of Missouri, the State Department of Physio-l
Education in California where he was in charg
from 1918-21, and the American Academy of
Physical Education in 1926.

Dr. Hetherington served as professor of physi-
cal education at the University of Wisconsin. He
started the Demonstration Play School at the Uni—
versity of California in 1913. For several years he
had reSponsibility for physical education and health
curricula at New York University. He served as

RECREATION IN LOS ANGELES “GOES TO IVAR” 643

professor in the Department of Hygiene and Phys-
ical Education at Stanford University.

Dr. Hetherington was chairman of the first com-
mittee of the National Recreation Association, then
known as the Playground Association of America,
which worked out the first “Normal Course in
Play,” and under the auspices of the National Rec-
reation Association visited a large number of nor-
mal schools and colleges to advise with the college
leaders about courses in play. At one time his
schedule was made out for nearly a year in advance.

Dr. Hetherington served for a period as a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the National Rec-
reation Association. He gave outstanding leader-
ship in helping to work out recreation policies in
the early days. For many years he was one of the
recognized leaders in the physical education field.
As thinker, educator, statesman, he will be long
and affectionately remembered by many in the rec-
reation field and also in the physical education field.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

Recreation in Los Angeles

I"Goes to War"
(Continued from page 617 )

ings, training courses, and other activities of many
civilian defense groups. Here are conducted phys-
ical fitness classes for air raid wardens, auxiliary
police, and auxiliary firemen, and other activities
of the Citizens Defense Corps. Ambulance and
first aid classes meet here. State Guard and state
militia units use the fields for drill purposes.

Dimout Activities

Light restrictions imposed by the Army West-
ern Defense Command have resulted in a chang—
ing program for the outdoor evening centers of
the Recreation Department. Because outdoor lights
must be kept at an intensity of “one foot candle
power” on the ground, which is not sufi‘icient for
such fast games as tennis or softball, the recreation
directors have been forced to use their ingenuity
to devise substitute activities.

Shuffleboard, croquet, horseshoes, basketball,
and volleyball still can be played under the dim
lights. Even badminton to a degree may be played
under such lighting. Greater emphasis in the
dimmed—out areas is also being placed on twilight
tennis, baseball, softball and other sports which
formerly were played under the lights. Commu-
nity centers are building up their evening indoor
programs to make up for the loss of brightly
lighted field activities. Where possible, badminton,

A FULL LINE OF 1943

LOUISVILLE SLUGGERS

for BASEBALL and SOFTBALL
are ready NOW!

There will be no shortage of genuine

Louisville Slugger bats for your I943
season—but with increasing trans-
portation difficulties may we

suggest you place your order
with'your supplier early.

H 8: B will continue to make,
in addition to essential ma-
terials of war. the finest
sports equipment it is
possible to produce.
Write us for our
new catalogue.

 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
  

, .

41.90 manufacturers of Louisville Power-Btu,
Luuisa'ille Grand Slam and Lo-Skore Golf Clubs

Wok-WM

lUUISVILLE SLUGGER BATS

volleyball, basketball and other games are being
moved indoors into halls and gymnasiums.

Instead of a drop in attendance, an increase is
expected since the dimout, like other war condi-
tions, serves to keep people closer than ever to
their homes and neighborhoods.

A ntiaircraft guns spoke for the first time in con-
tinental United States in an air raid alarm over
Los Angeles, but dimouts, blackouts, and air raid
alarms have not dampened the spirit of the people
of Los -Angeles. This city knows it is in for a
long, hard war, perhaps better than any large city
in the nation. But although they take the war
seriously,'Angelenos have not forgotten that lei-
sure must be wisely used to gain the utmost in
needed relaxation and rest. Grim, hard-working
Los Angeles still remembers how to laugh.

 

.A Letter to Recreation Directors
(Continued iiiom page 618)

Your initiative will not be curbed. You knew what
the “objective is. The playground is yours; the
neighborhood can be yours, too. Go to it! This
is your war job!

6-14 “MORE AND BETTER” BOOKS FOR SERVICEMEN

  

Junior Arts and Activities

for the elementary

teacher
and

ACTIVITIES ON PARADE
for the pupils
THE MOST.COMPLETE

EDUCATIONAL PLAN
EVER PUBLISHED

TEACHER :

you owe it to
yourself and to
your pupils to
know how these
two monthly
publications
can help you

0
Send 25c for Sample Copies to

Junior Arts and Activities
740 Rush Strut. Chicago. Ill.

       
   
     
     
   
       
     
     
   
           
      

An Enlarged Music Service for America
(Continued from page 607)

the Advancement of Music, after carefully study-
ing the field and consulting leaders in various
phases of music activity, asked that the two ser—
vices be combined under the leadership of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. The joining to:
gether of the two organizations in one office has
been effected; the services of the Bureau will be
continued, and the work of National Music Week
will be caried on along the lines so well deveIOped
under Mr. Tremaine’s leadership, with the entity
of both preserved. The combined services will be
located at the offices of the National Recreation
Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City,
and all inquiries, requests for publications of either
organization, information about Music Week and
related questions may be sent to this office.

The Association feels that this combination will
not only result in economies but that a larger ser-
vice to the nation through music can be rendered.
We welcome into this larger fellowship either from
the recreation movement or from the special 'field
of music all those who recognize what music can
mean to the enrichment of human life.

 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  

"More and Better" Books for

Serviceman
(Continued from page 608)

1. Current best sellers and the more recen
published popular fiction and nonfiction.

l0

. Adventure and westerns, detective and m
tery fiction. (These are described by ca
librarians as the types of books most so '_
after by the men.)

3. Technical books published since 1935, es
cially in the fields of architecture, aeronaut'
chemistry, drawing, machine mechanics .
design, mathematics, mechanical drawi
meteorology, military science, navigati
photography, physics, radio and shop r'
chanics.

4. Humorous books—jokes, humorous stori
anecdotes, cartoons and group games.

5. Pocket Books and other small sized editior
of popular titles.

Victory Book. Day

Friday, March 5, the closing date of the cam
paign, is being proclaimed official Victory B
Day. All activities in connection with the dri
will come to a striking climax on that day.

The possibilities for publicity during the dri
are unending—collection contests, essay conte
posters and slogans, window displays, communi
center displays, book exhibits, discussions of ai
and needs, and~’the usual newspaper and red
publicity.

Suggested slogans for the drive are “Con
Your Books and Give the Books that Cou
“Any Book You Really \Nant to Keep Is a Go
One to Give,” and “Give More Books, Give Go
Books.”

Salvage the Crayon Stubs!

(Continued from page 622)

trace or stencil the outlines of a simple pictu
onto a piece of unbleached muslin and color it '
wax crayons. Take their finished masterpiece .. 
cover the surface with a damp cloth, then p v
with a hot iron. (Be careful to keep this cl
slightly damp at all times.) In the pressing pr
ess the crayon wax coats the surface of the m . '
and protects the colors, even if laundering is nec-
essary. Frame the picture in a ten-cent store frame
and hang it in the playroom.

JAMES E. PVEST, CHIEF SCOUT 645

James E. West, Chief Scout

ON FEBRUARY 1, '1943, James E. West who has

given such outstanding service as Chief
Scout Executive for more than thirty—one years
becomes Chief Scout of the movement and Elbert
K, Fretwell takes over his duties as Executive.

Recreation workers have had Special interest in
James E. West because he served for a time in the
early days as the leader in the playground move-
ment in the District of Columbia. He has been a
loyal supporter of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, delivering one of the main evening ad-
dresses at the time of the Baltimore Recreation
Congress in 1941. There has always been the
closest cooperation between the Boy Scouts of
America and the National Recreation Association.

Under the leadership of James E. West the Boy
Scouts have made outstanding progress each year
and have gained an enviable reputation. Dr. West
has been editor of Boy’s Life which has a circula-
tion of more than 300,000. '

He found time to share in the establishment of
the National Social Work Council in which some
thirty-one organizations c00perated. He has given
loyal and continuous backing to the National Edu-
cation—Recreation Council in the leisure-time field.
He served as an active and outstanding leader in
giving support to the movement for the improve-
ment of motion pictures being shown to the Ameri-
can public. James E. West and the President of
the National Recreation Association have worked
side by side in a number of national movements.

The new position which Mr. West is to occupy
will be comparable for the United States to the

place held by the late Lord Baden-Powell in the
British Boy Scout Association.

New Executive

Elbert K. Fretwell, the new Chief Scout Execu-
tive, has worked for many years as a volunteer and
layman in the Boy Scout field. He has been Pro—
fessor of Education at Teachers College, Columbia
University. He served as Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Education of the Boy Scouts and as a
member of the National Council and the Executive
Board. Dr. Fretwell has also been active in the
safety movement and in many other public enter-
prises. He too has always been a loyal friend of
the National Recreation Association and the lead-
ers in the Association wish him well as he takes
up his new task.

 

DIAMOND

Products at the Front

Diamond tool steel that used
to go into the famous pitch-
ing horseshoe line is now

going into tools for victory.

DIAMOND OALK HORSESHDE 60.

4610 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

Developing Our National Resources
(Continued from page 633)

decline of membership in most youth organizations
after the age of sixteen.

“During the past decade private recreational
agencies have manifested several encouraging ten-
dencies. There has been a gradual weakening of
institutional lines, a greater capacity for self-criti-
cism, and an increased willingness to work to-
gether for the common good of the children and
youth they serve. More attention is being given
to working with young people in groups and to
bringing out the social values that can be derived
from participation in a common enterprise under
skilled guidance. It may be expected that in the
post-war period private organizations will continue
to be of substantial assistance to children and
youth by helping them to employ their leisure in
suitable ways.”

Valuable suggestions are contained in the report
for the setting up of planning groups to consider
the needs of children and youth, and the importance
of giving youth an opportunity to share in respon-
sibility is emphasized. Among the projects sug-

546 A TIME-AND—A-HALF VOLUNTEER

“Fun for Threesomes”

PITY the poor party leaders—too many girls

and not enough boys! Or too many boys
and not enough girls. What to do?

0 You’ll lind the answers in Parties Plus—Fun
for Threesomes, the third and last in Ethel

Bowers‘ series on party fun.

Nothing’s impossible in the line of three-way
fun with the help of this booklet! Folk games
and musical games, country dances and old-

time square sets too!

0 All the games and activities are adapted to
groups of two men and a girl, or two girls
and a man. More than forty different activi-
ties are included.

Send 50 cents to the NRA today for your
mpy of Fun for Threesomes. The booklet

is a “must” for party leaders these days.

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION
315 FOURTH AVnENUE NEW YORK CITY

/

 

gested for youth are the building and supervising
of recreational areas. Young people should be
admitted as junior partners in plans for serving
them.

Summary of Recommendations

Recommendations with reference to recreation
for children and youth and for planning to meet
the needs of these groups are summarized as
follows:

"Goals. To ensure every child and youth ade-
quate opportunities for leisure pursuits that con-
tribute to physical, social, intellectual, and cultural
development; where necessary, to supply guidance
in the use of these opportunities.

"Measures. Stimulate the incorporation of lei-
sure activities into the school program as an in-
tegral part of school work; increase the staff and
facilities available for this purpose.

“Keep school playgrounds open after school, over
week ends, and during holidays. Establish camps
under school auspices; make maximum use of
young people themselves to construct and operate
>11Ch camps; develop use of camps during the
school year as well as in vacation.

“Develop the functions of the school as a com-
munity recreation center. Encourage appreciation

of the school’s responsibility in this area. In re-
newing school buildings and equipment provide
facilities more appropriate for community use.

“Increase the support of municipal departm’
of recreation and establish such agencies in all
communities of any considerable size. Provide phy
lots,playgrounds, playing fields, and indoor recrea-
tion centers which in quality and quantity meet the
accepted standards for these facilities. Make super-
vision and guidance in the use of recreational
facilities much more widely available.”

.A Time-and-a-Half Volunteer
(Continued from page 601)

someone to do it, and that someone’s little boy
would break out with hives and nothing would
happen.

“W hat I'm doing doesn't need a committee. All
it needs is perception, imagination, and willingness
to work.’ Any woman can do it. You can’t talk to
one of these soldiers‘ for five minutes without sens-
ing—and you needn’t ask questions, either—some
simple, homely thing you could do to make the
going a little easier for him. Maybe it's getting
his grandmother’s potatoes dug; maybe it’s just
gathering up a bundle of rags or offering your
bathroom for a good hot soak. But whatever it is,
I don’t believe it's a job for a committee. A man
likes to feel that these little personal things are just
between you and him. Perhaps it would be dif-
ferent in a big _city, but in a place like this I think
it’s a one-woman job—any woman who knows
how to listen, to keep in the clear with the colonel
and never, never, to make a promise that she
doesn’t keep.

“But if I’m going to meet the bride I must hurry
along. Now remember, I’m no angel of mercy.
Maybe I’m just the town nuisance. But if you
hear of a barber who will work evenings and
Sundays . . .”

 

Please Note!

In the article entitled “The Joseph Lee Me—
morial Contest for Recreation Literature,” which
appeared in the January, 1943, issue of RECREA-
TION, the address of K. Mark Cowen was incor-
rectly given as Richmond, Virginia, Mr. Cowen is
Director of Parks and Recreation, Room 4, Mu-
nicipal Building, Roanoke, Virginia. He is serving
as Secretary of the Society of Recreation Workers
of America, and inquiries regarding the Society
should be addressed to him.

RECREATION IN A KANSAS BOOM TOWN 647

_ _,.,.

‘3  and «a new “aim; “‘6 aw” “4137

Von Pnuematic Molding Technique requires
no solid forms—produces perfect sphericity of
balls—ends dead spots—adds uniformity and
strength in canstruction. It's success in pro-
ducing bullet-proof fuel cells for combat planes
is unique and outstanding.

VOlT ATl-V

Arman-u - h I ‘ VOIT Athletic Equipment, while made to con-

TENNIS BALL

Fumble. ,, form to government restrictions, assures

I .515.388: ' ‘ VOIT Enduro
1.964.003:  , CBZ-V BASKETBALL

ELNmLmimmJu'M excellent quality worthy of the Von name

and reputation.

Write for illustrated price list

R-l showing complete line of

VOIT CIR-V

Official [12 in.)
3)" BALL

A

 ' VOIT Regulation

'2.W0.981. J V4- V VOLLEYBALL
Pat. No. 1.643.724: 2.183.900

Recreation in a Kansas Boom Town
( Continued from page 638)

exception of woodwork. Both large and small
looms are available for weaving, which is the most
popular activity.

In the downtown section of Wichita is the Arts
and Crafts Center which is available for use by
adults from 9:00 A. M. until II :00 P. M. every day
except Sunday. Most of the activities in this cen-
ter are carried on in one large room which has
3, 500 feet of fioor space. On the left side as one
enters the door are the large projects—furniture,
boats. and gliders. Two gliders have been made
at this center and three more are under construc-
tion. All of these are primary type ships with the
exception of one sail plane. This activity is en-
gaged in by glider groups or club members, and it
is anticipated that in the near future these groups
will be formed into a Glider Association.

Towards the back and in the middle of the room
is the power woodwork equipment. This consists
of saws, drill presses, lathe, jig—saw, and jointer.
All of this equipment has standard attachments.
T o the left against the north wall is the tool room
equipped with hand tools for woodwork.

 

available items.

, . ©03ngwa Armmc
 '* ’W EQUIPMENT

Fuselage

Hts a, u ' m Rutter tam. 15m 25!!! 9.1:: males, am.  '  2 Ce"
Franck: 180 I. them Er . things. 31'.

Pottery Room

A room for glazing and firing pottery in the left
rear corner of the shop is complete with clay bins,
glazes, and kiln. Native clays are used in all of
the pottery and modeling activities and glazes are
mixed at the center.

Across the shop from the gliders and boats is a
double row of twelve large looms and an assort-
ment of smaller looms. These are in constant use
with waiting lists. On these looms are made articles
ranging from table runners and scarfs to coverlets
and rugs. The latest innovation in weaving is a
redesigned loom which permits double weaving.
This makes possible a seamless rug six and a half
feet wide and any length.

Back through the main door of the shop and
across the hall is a meeting-lounge room and ad-
jacent to this the photographic dark room. This
part of the center was formerly an apartment—
the living and dining rooms were remodeled into
the meeting room, and the kitchen, pantry and
bathroom into photography dark rooms. A dutch
door, which is light—tight, shuts off the dark room
from the meeting room, and can be Opened to make

available a kitchen for meetings and parties.
( Continued on next page)

648 JOHN McLAREN

Have you seen

Home Play in Wartime?

The second edition of this little classic on stay-
at-home recreation is specially designed for
local use-—it's an appropriate New Year's gift
for the families in your community who are
"staying home" tor the duration. (And there's
a back-cover note about the services of local
recreation departments!)

This new edition is available at even more ad-

vantageous rates for quantity orders than the
first edition:

25 to 500 copies . . . . . . . . . .3 cents each
500 or more. at the rate of $25 per |.OOO

Because of the cost of handling.

it is still necessary to charge
IO cents for single copies.

Send your order today

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION
3l5 Fourth Avenue New York City

(Continued from preceding page)

At the Arts and Crafts Center each person is
charged seventy-live cents a month for the use of
facilities. No restrictions are made on the use of
the center except that participants must use equip-
ment safely and properly and no one piece of
equipment may be used for an unreasonable length
of time.

In brief, the Arts and Crafts Center is a com-
posite of several hundred home shops that indi-
viduals would have if space were available. The
center serves many “husband and wife” groups.
It is not at all uncommon to see them working to-
gether making archery tackle for use on the range
in the summer, a boat or canoe, toys and games,
or furniture for their homes.

The whole recreation program in Wichita of
course is in a period of growth. Revisions are
being made constantly to serve the interests of the
community. Plans for the coming year include
facilities and activities in parts of the city as yet
untouched. The most noteworthy lesson learned
to date is the necessity for a well organized com-

munity, Programs can be planned in advance by
evaluating the community organizations.

John McLaren

N JANUARY 12, 1943, John McLarcn, part
leader of San Francisco for 66 years, died It
the age of 

John McLaren was known throughout the
United States and throughout the world for his
long service in the Park Department of San Fran-
cisco. He received the highest honors of the Royal
Horticultural Society of London and the M3531-

chusetts Horticultural Society.

He was Superintendent of the Park Department
from 1890 and Assistant Superintendent for three
years previous. He was also member ex-ofiicio o'f
the Recreation Commission for thirty-five years.

 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
  

Two days after his death his body was placed
for a single day in the City Hall rotunda of San
Francisco that the entire city might do honor to

him.

"I Was Your Bashtul Barefoot Beau . . ."
(Continued from page 605)

mother’s home cooking. Strawberry jam, or an '
homemade jelly, will be the crowning glory of suc
delicacies. '

Radishes cut with petals and celery filled with
pimento cheese are healthy and colorful.

Then there are always the favorite “strawburry’
jam sandwiches just like those you used to e
after school. -But if you’re going to have sand
wiches, make them big enough for the men!

In lieu of coffee, which school children reall
shouldn’t drink anyway, serve tall, cold glasses «
milk or a simple fruit punch made from ginger
and grape juice in half-and-half proportions.

Music Lesson. While the class is pleasantly e
gaged in the business of eating, have someone -
tle‘down at the piano for an old-fashioned s
fest. Use the songs suggested for matching u;
ners, adding to them with requests. Sing some 0
some new, some silly, some blue. The classma :
will all join in, especially if song sheets are pas .
out. Or better still, borrow some grammar scl a:
song books for the evening and then watch you
guests sing out with gusto.

This is the perfect way to end the evening
with rollicking songs. Then when “the bell rin -
the men can gallantly serenade the girls wit
“Good Night, Ladies,” and the classmates will a
troop home.

INVENTOR OF VOLLEYBALL DIES 649

Inventor of Volleyball Dies

ILLIAM G. MORGAN, originator of the game of
W volleyball, died on December 27, 1942. Since
he invented the game in 1895, volleyball has grown
in popularity until now more than 600 cities" in—
clude it as a part of their recreation programs.

At the Holyoke, Massachusetts, Y.M.C.A. where
he went for his first job after graduation from
Springfield College, Morgan found that he needed
a competitive but noncombative sport to hold the
interest of the businessmen’s evening class. First
he tried knocking a basketball bladder back and
forth in an effort to keep it in the air, but the
bladder was too light and a basketball would be
too heavy.

Eventually Mr. Morgan worked out his own
specifications for a ball with the help of the H01-
yoke fire chief and had a near-by sporting goods
factory manufacture the first volleyball. The
specifications have not changed since.

Today volleyball is played widely both indoors
and out, by girls as well as boys. Shortly before he
died, Mr. Morgan pointed out that he had never
intended volleyball to become a competitive sport
or to compete with basketball for popularity. The
chief purpose of the game was exercise and 'en-
joyment.

 

 

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 639)

Worcester, _Massachusetts, Natural History So-
ciety. The Children’s Department is now a mem—
ber of the Community Chest, and six new centers
have been established under the direction of
Martha B. Hall, the new curator. The November
issue (Vol. I, No. I) has a 9—page report about
the Nature Training School for boys and girls.
Single issues, 35 cents.

Rajinesqne, Constantine Samuel (1788- 1840)
was born near ConstantinOple. His father was a
prosperous French merchant, his mother a German
woman born in Greece. Ralinesque was rich, pre-
cocious, and according to his own testimony
“traveled with my botanical collecting book‘and
reams of paper to preserve my plants; umbrella
and compass.” He personified the absent-minded
professor.

David Starr Jordan described him as “the very
first teacher of natural history in the \Vest.” His
passion for nature led him to complain, “I have

(Continued on page 650)

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of a

 
    

Current Interest to the Recreation Worlter

   
 

MAGAZINES

American City, January 1943

Victory Gardens in Cities and Suburban Areas, by
M. L. Wilson

Beach and Pool, December 1942

Fitting Pool Operation to “far Center Needs, by
H. R. Wiener

Pre-Induction Swimming, by Samuel W. Ingram

Girl Scout Leader, January 1943

Teen-Agers Want Girl Scouting, by Leah Parker
What Can Brownies Do? by Ray Mitchell

Journal of the National Education Association,

January 1943
Britain’s Chldren in Wartime

Living Wilderness, December,1942

Kings Canyon National Park, by Robert Sterling
Yard. (History and complete description of this
new CalifOrnia park)

Illusic Educators Journal, November-December 1942

The Navy’s School of Music, by Ensign J. M.
Thurmond

The Singing Community at War, A Guide to War-
time Uses of Community Singing

Supplementary Information on Music in the Navy.
(From the official bulletin for civilian muscians
contemplating entering the service)

\Vhat Kind of Songs? (Suggestions for student sing-
ing groups)

PAMPHLETS

The Negro and the War .by Earl Brown and George R.
Leighton. A Public Affairs Pamphlet, with statistics
and pictographs

Public Affairs Committee, Incorporated, 30 Rocke-
feller Plaza, New York City. Price 10 cents

Pennsylvania German Arts and Crafts, A Picture Book.
Woodwork, metalcraft, pottery, samplers, etc.

Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd
Street, New York City. Price 25 cents

Post-War Agenda prepared by National Resources Plan-
ning Board. Framework for development in ten main

fields

National Resources- Planning Board, Washington,
D. C. Free

Practicing Democracy in the College prepared by U. S.
Oliice of Education.

Education and National Defense Series, Pamphlet
No. 8. Applicable to clubs and centers

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.
Price 20 cents ‘

Relays and Races for Field and Hall, Appropriate for
Military Use. Bulletin No. 53—February 1942.

Division of Community Service Programs, Work
Projects Administration, 1206 South Santee Street,
Los Angeles, California

Your Wings prepared by United Air Lines. Illustrated
booklet designed to educate readers on the whole sub—
ject of aviation

United Air Lines, Department of School and College
Service, 5959 South Cicero Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

650 DR. A LAH’RENCE LOWELL

Dr. A. Lawrence Lowell

R. A. Luvaexce LOWELL, president emeritus
D of Harvard University, of which he was active
president for twenty-four years from 1909-1933,
died at his home in Boston on January 6, 1943.
He was 86 years of age.

Dr. Lowell was a relative and friend of Joseph
Lee, who was for so many years president of the
National Recreation Association. He believed in
the work of the National Recreation Association
and contributed to it for twenty-seven years.

It was while Dr. A. Lawrence Lowell was presi-
dent of Harvard that George E. Johnson, author
of “Education by Plays and Games,” former
Superintendent of Recreation at Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania, and a lifetime student of recreation prob-
lems, was made a member of the Harvard Gradu-
ate School of Education faculty.

Dr. Lowell in his will left his I30-acre estate in
Mashpee and Sandwich to the trustees of public
reservations with $10,000 to provide for its care.
A very considerable proportion of our parks and
playgrounds have come through the gifts of pub-
lic-spirited individuals like Dr. Lowell.

Dr. A. Lawrence Lowell was not the first
president of Harvard to give active backing to the
national recreation movement. For a number of
years Dr. Charles W. Eliot, who preceded Dr.
Lowell as president of Harvard, served on the

Board of Directors of the National Recreation
Association.

Much of the growth of the national recreation
movement has been made possible because of the

support of New England leaders of the type of
Dr. Lowell.

 

 

(Continued from page 649)

seldom met with liberal, enlightened men who
would believe that I was activated by the pure love
of knowledge and science.” He believed that
“every pure botanist is a good man, a happy man,
and a religious man. He lives with God in his
wide temple, not made by hands.” The Rafinesque
bat and Refinesque Hall in Mammoth Cave may
seem like queer memorials to the uninitiated.

Sea. “Wonders of the Sea,” Gladys Pratt
Freund. Illustrated in color by Rudolf Freund.
Random House, New York. 366 pp. $1.00. A
picture book with condensed text.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
   

Soybean is food for man and beast. Introduced
to the United States in 1804, it is a source of
plastics, flour for bread, lacquers, clothing,
soaps, and linoleum. There is a Soybean Res h
Laboratory at Urbana, Illinois. The dramatic
story of this “Magic Bean” by Edward Jeronc
and published by The Macmillan Company 3&1:

for $1.75.

Steel. “How Steel Is Made,” a three-colored
poster 20”x35”. Excellent to show the use of scrap
metal. Free from the American Industries Saul-
vage Committee, 50 Rockefeller Plaza, New York

City.

“Storm,” George R. Stewart. Random Home.
New York. 349 pp. $2.50. The biography of 1
storm, its birth in the western Pacific, its travels,
and the people whose lives it influences. Fiction.

Trails near Defense Centers. The Connecticut
Development Commission, Room 325, State Office
Building, Hartford, has published free maps "
trails near Bridgeport, Hartford, Meriden, Ne
Britain, and New Haven.

“Trees of the Eastern United States and Can
ada,” William M. Harlow. Whittlesey Hous‘
194.12. 288 pp. $2.75. It took “Moosewood Bill” .
bring out in one book the identifying features 0
trees plus their woodcraft and wildlife uses.
takes a real scientist who, although he is versed '
technical terms, has the courage to say somethi -
in English for the average reader. Bill Harlow '
one of the best blends of technocracy and camp
that I know. His photographs, which illustr
the book, are excellent. In addition the book F1
both the pocket and pocketbook.

“lVildlife Feeding in Winter.” Conservati
Bulletin No. I 3, Fish and Wildlife Service, 19
20 pp. 10 cents. (Order from Superintendent 1
Documents.) Wildlife needs man’s help, 504
thing more than a Christmas offering.

Zoo. “Official Guide Book to the Philadelp
Zoological Garden,” Roger Conant. 2001'
Society of Philadelphia. 107 pp., illustrated.
cents.

Zoo Courses for Adults. The Philadelphia Z
has had special courses for ten consecutive year
Tuition is $3.00 including admission to the 20
Members of the Bronx Zoo staff are invited t
discuss their specialties, using live animals in
their lectures.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Favorite Stories Old and New

Selected by Sidonie Matsner Gruenberg. Doubleday,
Doran and Company, Inc., Garden City, New York.
$2.50.

MRS. GRUENBERG, who is director of the Child Study
Association of America and is a keen student of
family life, believes that reading should be an integral
part of the life of the family. So she has selected more
than a hundred stories which she feels will provide a
happy introduction to a reading and literary background
for younger children. There are eight sections: Real
Children and Real Things; Stories About Animals;
Stories of Make Believe; Fairy Tales; Folk Tales from
Many Lands; Myths and Fables; Bible Stories; and
Tales of Laughter. In comments preceding each Of these
sections, Mrs. Gruenberg gives the reasons for her selec-
tions and tells of her own joy in reading and her convic-
tion that reading aloud should now more than ever be a
happy part of family solidarity.

Team Sports for Women

By Alice W. Frymir, M.A. and Marjorie Hillas, M.A.
A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $2.50.

IN ITS REVISED EDITION this volume, first published in
1935, conforms with the latest changes in rules in all
the six sports covered——basketball, field hockey, soccer,
softball, speedball, and volleyball. New material on tech-
niques has been added, together with a chapter on modi-
fied team games entitled “Streamlined Sports.”

Master Homecraft Proiects

By G. A. Raeth. The Bruce Publishing Company, Mil-
waukee. $2.00.

THE MAJORITY of the pieces of furniture described in
this book are of the modern type because of its present
popularity and the significant trend in furniture design
and decoration it represents. The purpose has been to
present pieces which will interest all members of the
household and which are especially designed for amateur
craftsmen, with particular attention given to simplicity of
design, beauty, comfort, and utility. There are fifty-five
separate plans, working and detail drawings, and illus-
trations.

The Amateur Scientist

Science as a Hobby. Mr. W. Stephen Thomas. W. W.
Norton and Company, Inc., New York. $3.00.

HOUSANDs OF MEN AND WOMEN in the United States

are engaged in scientific pursuits in their leisure time.
Whether in the field Of astronomy or bird study, they
make some scientific hobby their specialty. A study of
the amateur scientist and his activities is the purpose of
this book, which makes it clear that the amateur has an
important part to play in the field of science and should
be encouraged. Many Of these individuals have skills
developed through the pursuit of their hobbies which
make their services valuable to the war effort.

Songs of American Folks

By Satis N. Coleman and Adolph Bregman. The John
Day Company, New York. $2.25.

ODAY AMERICAN FOLK SONGS have achieved real distinc-

tion in our literature, and they are beginning to be
appreciated not only for their simple beauty as literature
and for the artlessness of their music, but for their edu—
cational value as direct reflections of the many facets of
American history. The forty-seven folk songs presented
with words and music in this book are a sampling of au-
thentic American songs that represent the folk element
and are good to sing. Young and Old alike will enjoy
them.

You Can Whittle and Carve

By Amanda Watkins Hellum and Franklin H. Gottshall.
The Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee. $2.25.

UCH OF THE CARVING described in this book re-

quires only a sharp pocketknife, although addi-
tional tools are desirable for certain types of work. It
is amazing, however, how many attractive articles and
appealing animal likenesses can be made from a block of
wood with the help of a penknife. This book, with its
attractive illustrations, suggests what to carve and tells
you how to go about it.

Relaxation to the Rescue

By Dorothy Nye and Josephine L. Rathbone. The
VVomans Press, New York. $.50.

HE IMPORTANCE OF RELAXATION and the means of Off-

setting tension today are discussed by Miss Rathbone
in this booklet, which also contains the answers to seven
questions on relaxation in quotations from Y.W.C.A.
publications. In the final section Miss Nye gives prac-
tical exercises for relaxation. With girls and women
going in increasing numbers into war plants and war

activities, this booklet will be especially timely and
helpful.

Touch Football

By John V. Gromabach. Barnes Dollar Sports Library.
A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.

OUCH FOOTBALL, which can be played without special
Tclothing, equipment or formal field, receives thorough
treatment in this book. Prepared especially for the use
of the officers and four million men in the armed services,
the 'book tells of the benefits to be derived by actual
touch football playing experience. Official rules are in-
cluded.

Make It for the Children

Prepared by Page Kirk. Association for Childhood Edu—
gaécéon, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N .W., Washington, D. C.

THE COMMITTEE ON EQUIPMENT and Supplies of the As-
sociation for Childhood Education has made a real
contribution in assembling and evaluating the material

651

65" NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

which makes this booklet possible. .llake It for the CI"!-
dn'n contains clear working drawings, lists of materials,
and directions for making more than forty useful articles,
such as cots, swings, wheelbarrow-s, and many.others.
Among the articles described are a number of pieces of
play apparatus for children, such as swings, a ladder,
walking board. sand box, rocking-board, a 'teeter-tottcr,
a tov box, and similar equipment. There is a chapter
giving general instructions on tools. lumber, hardware.
paint. and construction. So clear are the instructions that
amateur craftsmen of little experience can make the arti-
cles which are designed as substitutes foroconnnercml
products. now so difficult to obtain. _Recreation workers
will find this booklet a valuable addition to their libraries.

Magic.
By Barrows Mussey. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.00.

Conjuring tricks and stunts have their appeal for old
and voung alike, and it is a rare person who has never
wished that he could master white magic. Here is a book
which will show you how to do simple and complex con—
juring tricks and how to progress from the simpler ones
to those requiring much practice. In the majority of the
tricks described little or no equipment is necessary.

Guide to the Appalachian Trail in Maine.

No. 82. The Appalachian Trail Conference, \Vash—
ington, D. C. $2.50.

The fourth edition of the Maine Guide has been made
more readily usable by the adoption of a new format
which makes the sheets removable. Thus it is possible to
take from the book the sheets giving information on the
area to be visited, the map covering it, and any special
articles or chapters desired. These may be inserted in a
map case and easily carried on the trip.

Our Land of Song.

A Singing School. C. C. Birchard and Company,
Boston. $.92.

Here is a book of songs about America and its great
men—songs which Americans have sung for many years;
songs written by living Americans; songs which came
from our good neighbor countries to the North and
South, and from other countries which were the homes
of many who are now Americans.

The Official Volley Ball Guide 1943.

Edited by George J. Fisher, M.D. A. S. Barnes and
'Company, New York. $.50.

The Volley Ball Guide this year contains a section
which will be of special interest to recreation workers.
A committee of which Dr. John Brown, Jr., is chairman
has prepared modified volley ball rules for juniors which
are presented in connection with the official rules. A
number of interesting articles are offered: “Informal
Volley Ball," by Luella B. Snoeyenbos; “Making Volley
Ball Fun for Beginners,” by Beatrice Hodgkins; and

"Suggested Rules for Co-rccreation Volley Ball,” by
Norma M. Leavitt.

Fire Prevention Education.

Prepared by the Center for Safety Education, New
York University and the Committee for Fire Pre-
vention Education. The National Board of Fire Un-
derwriters, 85 John Street, New York. $.85.

The question of fire prevention is so important to all of
us that we are glad to bring to the attention of readers of
RECREATION this manual which reviews, evaluates, and
recommends the best educational practices and standards
for the reduction of injury, loss of life, and property
damage through lire. Part One includes materials and
methods especially adapted for the use of teachers in pre-
senting the subject, while Part Two offers materials for
the use of municipal officials and of educational, civic,

and commercial agencies and organizations conducting
programs in public education. '

Learning the Ways of Democracy.

A Case Book of Civic Education. Educational Poli-
cies Commission, 1201 Sixteenth Street, NonliQt,
\Vashington, D. C. $1.00.

This volume contains an account of evidences of tin
democratic spirit in educational practices which -i’e
observed in ninety American secondary schools. In each
of the schools visited the staff members undertow to
ascertain the ideas of democracy which undeth &|
school program.

i

All-American.

3y John R. Tunis. Harcourt, Brace and Company,
New York. $2.00.

A sports story by John Tunis is always welcome. Thi!
particular story has to do with football and the wobllcms
of democracy which even high school boys must face.

How to Be Fit.

By Robert Kiphuth. Yale University Press, 143'
Haven. $2.00.

Designed for men of all ages, from boys in school to
their fathers and even grandfathers, this book is divided
into two parts: Part I contains general exercises that
everyone can do; Part II, more strenuous ones for
youngsters. The entire body is brought into play through
these exercises, including parts not touched by ordinary
exercises. They are basic to the proper pursuit of any
sport or activity: indeed to the ordinary well-being re-
quired by these days of stress. The exercises take only a

short time to perform, not more than fifteen minutes
being required.

 

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRA'UCHER, President
JOHN G. WiNANT, First Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MiLLS. Second ViCe-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAvus T. K‘insv, Treasurer

DIRECTORS
F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York. N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMis, Boston, Mass.
MRS. ROBERT Woons Buss, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. WiLLiAM BUTTERWORTit, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBET‘I‘, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTiN E. GRtt-‘ririts, Seattle. ‘Wash.
MRS. NORMAN IIARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELViLLE H. HASKELL, TuCSon, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GusTAvus T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Lnd.
RonERT LAsStTER, Charlotte, N. C.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MiLLiREN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.
MRS. StcuUNo STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WAosWOR-ru, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARIURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WiNANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

 

