A Message

From

John  Winant

The Ambassador to the Coun‘

of 5+. James's s’rresses the
wan‘ime impon‘ance of lhe

na’rional recreation movemen’r
in +|1e United Sfafes

 

HE TIME that I have spent in England makes me feel more than ever the
Timportance of the'work being done by the National Recreation Association.
In this war period it seems to me that what our national recreation movement
is doing now is essential in our war effort because it contributes to morale and

the health and well-being of the community.

l am much concerned that in the period following the war the Associa-
tion should be as strong as possible to help with the problems of living, includ-

ing recreation, which must receive attention then.

Iwish every contributor to the Association could see as I have seen what
it means to have a going concern in the held of recreation available in a time of

emergency like this.

First Vice-President
National Recreation Association

 

 

MARCH I943
Henry Pfeiffer Library _ 653
a Mac Murray College

.Tacksaonvil] a- Tllinoi a

 

 

Courtesy France:

Four Ama‘feur Gardeners Dig in for Vic’rory

 

Rationed Recreation

 

Somewhere in Southern California

Battery Dis weekly

movie. A jeep arrives
carrying complete portable
motion picture apparatus.
Men assemble quickly in an outdoor clearing. They
sit on boxes, planks—or just stand; blankets are
slung about them as they huddle together to escape
the evening chill. Because of their great popu—
larity, movies are shown “in the field” where the
largest audience is permissible.

Tonight’s program consists of the usual current
newsreel, an animated cartoon and the feature
“Beau Geste,” of old vintage, but in timely North
African setting, A Spirit Of comradeship perme-
ates the showing and there is much bantering and
good natured participation in the action On the
screen. Any interruption caused by a burned-out
bulb or a torn film is countenanced by a tolerant
patience never granted in civilian days!

At the close, soldiers ask for the title Of next

IT’S 7 P. M. and time for

week’s feature. It is “How Green Is My Valley”,

Many have seen it in civilian theaters, but they
assure the operator they will see it again, because
movies are their most valued recreational ration!

Short Rations of Recreation

The dimmer the opportunity the brighter the
appreciation. This is the lesson civilian consum—
ers are learning about rationed coffee and other
commodities taken for granted in prewar times.
By much the same token, shortened rations Of rec—
reational Opportunity bring richer leisure-time
dividends to enlisted men of a regiment Operating
along the Southern Cali—
fornia coastline —— “some—
where near Los Angeles
and Long Beach.”

The need for rationing
such a vital necessity is by
'no means a refiection of
any shortage in recrea-
tional facilities and pro-
grams offered by commu-
nity agencies. Always pio-
neers in the field Of public ‘
recreation, these commu-

By Corporal HERMAN A. EIGEN

Special Service Worker

Coast Artillery Corps (Anti-Aircraft)
United States Army

In writing this story. the purpose of the au-
thorl formerly Director of University
ment in Cleveland' has been merely to sketch
the "what" aspects of organized recreation in
a walled-in field unit. "Some clue to the 'how' .
of organization and the 'why' of its satisfac- tlme-
tion can best be summarized." he says. "by
emphasizing two conditions which reappear
constantly through this story: splendid civilian
support and eager soldier participation. These
are the ingredients that supply our regimental
recreation office with a sure recipe to nourish
'dim opportunity into bright appreciation.l "

nities have geared peacetime
programs to needs created by
concentrations of servicemen
on leave from near—by posts.
Here men in uniform are
greeted by a Niagara of services ranging from
highly talented Hollywood entertainment to a free
hair cut!

In the midst Of this garden spot of leisure-time
endeavor, men of our regiment find themselves in
much the same position as the legendary Greek,
Tantalus, who was surrounded by tempting needs
within “tantalizing” reach, but always evading his
yearning grasp. For the confining nature of our
military mission precludes participation in the
many civilian attractions around us except those
afforded by an occasional fleeting twenty-four
hour pass.

We have been able to complement (never wholly
supplement!) some of these Opportunities with a
regimental program Of our Own—a program guid—
ed by one main Objective: to provide much the
same type of voluntary pursuits that brought
pleasure and satisfaction in civilian days. These
become translated into such programs as movies,
dancing, entertainments, socials and games, ath-
letics, hobbies and current events. However, Op-'
portunities for these activities in a tactical field
unit are limited. Our regiment is broken down
into several separate and self-contained batteries.
Each battery comprises over 100 men assigned to
field positions where they work, eat and sleep, in
a routine that parallels actual battle conditions.
During free time men are confined to an adjoining
bivouac always ready for
recall. Since field positions
must be manned at all
times, less than a third Of
the men can be released to
bivouac at any one given

Settle-

In the bivouac a day
room and outdoor play
area provide the main fa-
cilities for recreation. The
day room, attractively fur—
nished by civilian neigh—

655

656 SOMEWHERE IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

bors to recreate a homelike
atmosphere, is the haven for
informal relaxing activity and
planned entertainment. A vol-
leyball court, horseshoe pits,
and a ball field (where space
permits) receive much use,
but in a catch-as-catch-can way.

Distances between batteries preclude interunit
and all-regimental activity, and it becomes the
function of a central ——but removed -—-regimental
office to plan, book, and ration out programs of
recreation to the “transient third” in each battery.
A brief tour of inspection into a few units where
programs are in progress will help to point up
their main range and scope.

Plenty of Girls

“I hope the one in the green dress and earrings
comes” . . . “Don’t forget, no cut-ins if I wave
my arm” . . . “I hope they bring enough girls.”
. . . These expectant remarks preface the biweekly
dance in Battery “B.” They also summarize the
secret of any successful social event—someone to
talk to, dance with, and plenty of girls to go
around.

Tonight it is the “V ictorettes’ ” turn to be host-
esses. These girls are all employed in a near-by
aircraft plant. Like other dance groups who visit
our batteries and are sponsored by USO clubs,
churches and other service agencies, these girls
form their own afiiliate organization with a name,
insignia, and set of by-laws. Members of good
standing in the Victorettes pledge attendance at a
certain number of soldier functions every month,
and master a set of rules governing the conduct of
dance hospitality—the art of starting a conversa-
tion, encouraging a soldier to ask for a dance, no
“dating” for the same night.

The soldiers bring a cozy atmosphere into their
day room with homemade decorations, rearrange-
ment of furniture and “soft” lights. The Victor-
ettes arrive promptly at 8 o’clock—they know men
want their three full hours of entertainment. They
bring with them a band and a series of surprise
events which they have especially planned for the
occasion at their last meeting.

This evening’s “mixer” is a clever scheme of
bringing together soldiers and girls from the same
state, thereby assuring conversation items and
dance partners. There are different change-partner
events, for these girls well know that social danc-
ing can become “anti-social” dancing when the

"Recreation contributes basically to that
strange combination called fighting mo-
rale which has much to do with winning
wars. Recreation doveloPs a spirit of ad-

venture which is the spirit of camp life."
—Lieut. W. J. Pitt, U.S. Naval Reserve.

same couple looks over eac
other’s shoulders all night!
Dances are brightened b
lucky number and waltz con
tests with a package of cigar
ettes to the winning soldier
and the Victorettes “fix it” r.
that every soldier has at least one such awar
tucked away by the end of the evening. Intermis
sions and refreshments are accompanied by i
formal singing around the piano—and without t
benefit of the soldier’s constant dread, the “wind
mill” song leaderl

After lingering last good-byes, a soldier aptl
comments: “We like these girls because they . '
natural. They don’t gush over you and make y
feel like a heel if you’re not talking or laughing .
the time l”

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
    
   
 
   
  

Behind the Footlights

Soldiers in Headquarters Battery usually pre
variety shows to straight drama, especially wh
plays are offered by “cute” children or by rehea
ing high school groups. But tonight’s play is to
“The \V omen” —uncut Broadway version a
sure-fire subject matter for any soldier audien
Besides, special permission has been granted f
soldiers to bring their wives who live in the it
mediate vicinity.

In preparation, a group of handy soldiers r
move the partition that separates the mess hall a
day room and improvise a theater for the e
ning’s performance. A war service organiz '
provides the stage hands, props and spotlig
The Army provides the transportation to im
“The Rogues and Vagabonds, Inc.,” a pr
sional acting troupe of twenty-five young wo ‘
from Hollywood. The “Rogues” provide the r

Each new situation and innuendo in the p
met by gales of laughter—and in enough r'
places to compensate richly any starved Th '
Actresses are later invited to chat with the 1
over a cup of cocoa—a technique that always
sures a return performance to another b --
later on. General enthusiasm for the even'
activity provides the incentive for the format'
a Headquarters Battery one-act play group to
“comedies and mysteries—no serious stuff.”

When an envious civilian radio fan compla
“You’ve got to be a soldier these days to see I
H0pe or Gracie Fields,” he bases that observ '
on a broadcast emanating from the large trai '
camp or garrison and not our type of restrict

SOrlIElVHERE IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 657

field unit. \Vhile “big name” performers shy away
from our small audiences, many professional
troupes, like the Rogues and Vagabonds have mo-
bilized their own “army of entertainment bat—
talions” expressly for the benefit of our units. The
Plummer Park Players present a full evening of
the Gay Nineties, replete with meller-drammer,
oleo and snacks. Variety shows with a theme in—
clude such tempting titles as “Tropica,” “Hill-
billies on Parade,” “Mexican Tipica,” and “Negro
Swing and Sway." Then there are vaudeville
shows, band concerts and choral groups all avail-
able for our bookings.

“Be Ready for Anything”

The first sergeant is making his midday an-
nouncement at chow: “Mrs. Hill
is going to join us tonight in the
day room, She will bring a for-
tuneteller and a few acts, but
don’t expect a regular show. I.
know you guys don’t like to get
up and entertain, but you’d bet-
ter be ready for anything with
Mrs. Hill here.”

With that advance publicity
and the prospects of having
mysterious next steps in one’s
military career unraveled, there
is a large turnout for the eve-
ning. A word about Mrs. Hill
first: She calls us her “pet proj-
ect” and proves it by leading
weekly programs of informal
recreation. An expert singer,
pianist and song leader, she has
the ability to draw soldiers around her in song and
witty verbal exchange. She knows how to bawl
out a reticent group and get them to perform—
and like it. She has a special knack of spotting
and drawing in the shy ones. Homesick and love-
lorn soldiers find her a ready and sympathetic
confidante.

Ten girls accompany Mrs. Hill tonight. There
is the fortuneteller, an accordion duet, a singer of
popular airs, and a group of young army wives
with husbands overseas who come “just to be
sociable.” The fortuneteller, in brilliant costume,
retires to the booth that has been set up for her in
a corner of the room—not to emerge until the end
of the evening. Hers is an enviable opportunity
to boost the gullible soldier ego, and she makes the
most of it!

rl‘he Greatest Mother

in the “Brld

    

After the prepared entertainment, Mrs. Hill
goes into action and the room is soon full of noisy
song. N 0 second invitation is necessary when she
announces that the ten girls are available for social
dancing. This she maneuvers quite naturally into
a Rye Waltz ,Virginia Reel, Shoo-Fly, and other
rhythmical games until all men have had a chance
at something. By this time the ice is broken and
soldiers are ready to show off their own entertain—
ment skills. The program ends on a high note.

There is “a thread to the plot” behind these eve—
nings of informal recreation. Emphasis is placed on
soldier participation. The girls and the entertain-
ers come mainly to get the soldiers to share in the
program. There are always enough girls for mixed
activity and always new faces and acts added to the
entertainment. Mrs. Hill obtains
her performers from the Recrea—
tion Division of the Long Beach
Defense Council which coordi—
nates a city-wide system of lend—
lease talent for Army functions.
She can choose her singers from
specialists in the folk, ballad,
popular or barber shop brands.
Her Specialty numbers are drawn
from a list of dancers, instru—
mentalists, and dramatic
sketches. She always includes a
“kicker” in every program —-—
anything from a fortuneteller
~)'_' and magician to a baton wielder

CROSS? WAR sf]; ,1 and quiz program-
MARCH «1943

Recreation Priorities

These four activities—movies,
dancing, entertainments, and informal recreation—
rank highest on our list of leisure—time priorities.
An attempt is made to schedule a movie and at
least one of the other activities for each battery
weekly. There are other outlets to help withstand
the wear and tear of field life. Foremost of these
is the day by day service rendered by the day
room. Here soldiers drop in to read, write, listen
to the radio, play ping-pong, or lounge. Here they
congregate for a planned program or an im-
promptu “jam” session around the piano or a
“rumoresque”—the favorite pastime of trading
predictions on great military unknowns.

Soldiers take great pride in their day room. It’s
like the corner drug store, In one battery, where
the men recently griped about cramped and dilapi-

(Continued on page 702)

Organizing tor Victory Gardens

By LLOYD A. ROCHFORD

of the community gar-
den project at Long
leach, the City Attorney
called upon the Recreation
Commission to show how its
leadership in such a project
is justified. From his obser-
vation, he was well satisfied
that under the method used
a real recreational interest
could be served as well as
an economic and patriotic motive.

The Recreation Commission is by no means
alone in the undertaking. Cooperation of city and
school departments and many civic groups is
reaching a record mark. Although a cooperative
spirit is always in evidence among these groups,
seldom if ever has there been opportunity to ex—
press it in action on the scale now provided by the
victory garden movement. '

The list of boards, departments, and groups
actively involved tells the story graphically:

Recreation Commission, administrators and staff

Board of Education and Superintendent of

Schools

School Business Manager

Adult Education Department

Physical Education Department

City Manager and City Council

City \Vater Commission and Manager and Per-

sonnel of the \Vater Department
Park and Highway Commission and Park
Superintendent and staff

Recreation Division of the Civilian Service
Corps, of which the Assistant Director of
Municipal Recreation is chairman

American \Vomen’s Voluntary Services

The cooperation of the general public through
its participation in the plan is also notable. Three
weeks after the initiation of the project, more than
900 citizens had met the requirements and regis-
tered. Land throughout the city has been secured,
the parcels ranging in size from a single city lot up
to a tract of seven acres. Owners are accepting
weed control as consideration for the use of
property.

The plan of organization is not at all compli-
cated and it should prove highly efiicient. Neighbors

658

I .\° wonxixc out the details

 

"Does the promotion of Victory Gardens
properly fall within the province of a
municipal recreation department?"

The answer ot the Long Beach. California.

Recreation Commission is emphatically
"Yes," according to Mr. Rochtord of the

Commission's statt. who tells of the de-
-velopment of the project in that city.

_ the garden club movement, the special loci r

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
   
   
   
   

unite to form garden clu
and each member pays
registration fee of one do
lar. Without further cost ‘
him, the land for his gar
is plowed and he is g'i -
ten packages of garden ' ‘ ‘
After the garden is un
way, each club member
pay a small monthly fee
cover the cost of water, t‘l
rate for which has been

at 6V2¢ per 100 cubic feet. It is estimated that fr
13¢ to 15¢ a month will supply water for
I 5’x40’ garden plot. Incidentally, as a result o

for city water for garden purposes has been in
tended to Long Beach residents planning ..
vidual family gardens.

The Park Department has agreed to accept 1
sponsibility for soil examination, will recomme
treatment to prepare ground for use and will .
suggest the most suitable crops for the partic
plot in question.

The Adult Education Department of the L
Beach schools has set up classes in gardening
the instruction of amateur gardeners who will
well enough informed to act as advisers to
clubs which are being formed.

The Recreation Commission arranges for u -
ing, purchases and distributes the garden
maintains the office of registration, and superv'
the organization and operation of the garden c _

Particularly valuable to the success of the
tory Garden Project is the contribution made
the American W'omen’s Voluntary Services g ',
Among the things they are doing are the follow'

Obtaining use-of—lot permission from owners

Securing permission for city to tap water

of neighbors for irrigation of vacant lots

Promoting the Victory Garden Project thr

other organizations such as women’s cl
war guilds, and neighborhood clubs

Lining up women to take preparatory class

to qualify as speakers in the promotion

Assisting in manning the registration headq

ters and giving other assistance in m '
problems of project operation as they ari

Supervising junior workers who repackage  .

Your Victory Garden

E’LL BE hearing

much about Vic—

tory Gardens this
year, for all of us for-
tunate enough to-‘have a
little “good earth” at'
our disposal will want
to have a hand in-rais-
ing the food supply so
vital to ourselves and
our Allies.
' In 1943 at least one-
quarter of the total food
production of our coun-
try will be required to
meet the needs of the
armed forces, the Allies.
and the countries freed
from invasion. To in—
sure adequate supplies
of food on the home
front, especially of the
protective foods, 50' per'
cent of which are 'vege—
tables and fruits, it is essen-
tial that more home gardens
be cultivated and their prod—
uce efhciently and economi-
cally used. .

Our government, through
the Department of Agriculture, is conducting a
program to help develop better and larger gardens
in local communities. In rural areas it will be done
by the recently organized “neighborhood leaders"
who work with Extension Service workers. In
urban and suburban communities it is hoped that
similar work will be done through the block leader
system now being developed by the Oflice of Ci—
vilian Defense. These local leaders will distribute
general information to stimulate interest and assist
in organization plans, but technical advice and
guidance should be provided in local communities
by qualified garden club leaders, teachers, and
private gardeners.

Park and recreation departments, as well as
schools, garden clubs, and similar groups will do
their part. There is the Recreation Department of
San Francisco, for example, which for seven years
has maintained flower and vegetable clubs for chil—

 

This picture appears on the cover of the
Victory Garden Plan issued by the Ferry—
Morse Seed Company. The chart showing
what, when, and how to plant a garden
may be secured on request from the Com-
pany's offices in Detroit and San Francisco.

dren and, in some dis-

tricts, has set apart small

areas for gardening.

This year the Depart-

ment is planning for a

Victory Vegetable Gar-
: den Program with plots

available at a number of

playgrounds. In other
districts a program to
encourage home vege-
table gardening will be
carried out. This will
involve classes in the
planting and cultivation
of vegetables, together
with discussion of gar—
dening problems. Charts
will be made by the chil-
dren to "showrwhat and
when to plant. Exhibits
of vegetables will be held
later and ribbon awards
will be presented.
And there’s the Park and
Recreation Board of Bir-
mingham, Alabama, 'which
had the happy idea of plant-
ing a Victory Demonstra-
tion Garden to answer many
of the questions amateur gardeners in Birmingham
were asking, such as, “What shall I plant?” “When
shall I plant it ?” “How much room should I have
to make a satisfactory showing ?” On an unused
area near. its greenhouse the Board laid out forty-
eight garden plots 4’ by 8’ separated by gravel
walks, and in each plot planted a standard variety
of garden vegetables. Each bed was clearly labeled
for the benefit of the seeker after knowledge.

The Dallas, Texas, Park and Recreation De-
partment has tackled the problem realistically and
is making the promotion of Victory Gardens one
of the highlights of its community service program.
The Department operates nine community centers
during the winter months at various locations
throughout the city. At each of these centers the
County Agent has given talks on Victory Gardens
and distributed to the classes mimeographed ma-
terial and bulletins available through his office.

659

(60 YOUR VICTORY GARDEN

The handcraft classes at each
center have made posters
which have been placed in in-
dustrial plants, stores, and
various public places urging
the planting of gardens.

In Chicago the Park Dis-
trict and the Office of Civilian
Defense have worked out a
plan for 1943 whereby as far
as possible a Victory Garden
council will function in each of the 108 Civilian
Defense communities within the city limits. Lead-
ers from this group will supervise on Saturday
mornings any children’s Victory Garden plots that
may be set aside in the parks. They will stake out
the individual garden plots and assign them to
specific school children sent by the neighboring
public and parochial schools. ,,

Each child will pay his supervisor $1.00 for
which the Chicago Park District will provide him
with a suitable packet of seed. If on August Ist
the supervisor of the garden certifies to the Park
District that the child has tended his garden each
Saturday morning, or has had a valid excuse for
not doing so and the garden has been properly
cared for, the Park District will then refund what-
ever is left from the $1.00 after the cost of the seed
has been deducted. The Park Department will set
aside an area in each park for gardens to a total of
about 63 acres. This will permit of a standard

garden 10’ wide by 10’ long or its equivalent for
each child.

Where to Go for Help

There are many inexpensive booklets to help
you. Our own government offers a number of
these. Victory Gardens by Victor R. Boswell, a
twelve page pamphlet full of helpful hints and
plans for small and medi-
um sized gardens (Mis-
cellaneous Publication
No. 483, U. S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture),
may be secured from the
Superintendent of Docu-
ments, Government Print—
ing Office, Washington,
D. C., for five cents.

The Department of
Agriculture, in connec-
tion with its 1943 cam-
paign for Victory Car-

In the I94I Year Book of the National
Recreation Association, I25 municipal
recreation departments and other local
groups conducting community recreation
programs reported gardening as one of
their activities. The number reporting
for the I942 Year Book. to appear
in the June I943 issue of Recreation,
should be larger. Make sure now that

your city will appear in the I943 Year
Book as a Victory Garden community!

 

dens, is completing a Victory
Garden booklet to be dis—
tributed through the Office of
War Information. This will
provide a general pattern of
organization.

The Federal Security
Agency, through its Informa-
tion exchange on Education
in \Vartime, is making avail-
able a series of three Victory
Garden loan packets. Each packet contains a col-
lection of pamphlets, bulletins, and reports from
such agencies as the Department of Agriculture,
school garden committees, and state Agricultural
Extension Departments. The titles of the packets
are: Victory Garden and Food for Freedom Carn-
paigns; H ow to Plan, Grow, and Preserve Home
Garden Products; and Garden Programs of
Schools and Youth Organizations. Each packet
may be kept for two weeks. Requests should be
addressed to Mrs. Louise A. Menefee, Information
Exchange on Education in \Vartime, Federal Se-
curity Agency, U. S. Office of Education, \Vash-
ington, D. C.

An inexpensive, simple but practical pamphlet
is Victory Gardens, published by Girl Scouts, Inc.,
I 5 5 East 44th Street, New York City, at five cents.
Though designed primarily to help Scout troops,
from Brownies to Senior Girl Scouts, insure honi
food supplies, it will be helpful to all groups an
individuals. _..

By sending a self-addressed stamped envelope t
Mr. E. L. D. Seymour at the office of The Ameri
can Home, 444 Madison Avenue, New York City
you may secure a leaflet prepared by Mr. Seymou
and entitled To Y on Who I V onId Garden to H el
Win the War. Mr. Seymour is Horticultur
Editor of The American Home, a magazine it
which a number of ver
practical articles have ap
peared during the pa
year. Among them are
“Food Gardens for th
Duration,” January 1942
“All for Victory” (Stor
ing and Canning), A
gust 1942; “Home Gar
(lening in Wartime,’
October 1942; “Garden
ers Get Down to Earth,’

January 1943; an
(Continued on page 7'00)

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
  
    
   

Print by Gedge Harmon

Garden for Victory in |91+3l

and the Grand Forks

Herald Sponsored a
Victory Garden Contest in
Grand Forks, North Da—
<ota. In previous years
yard and garden contests
iad been sponsored, with
:ity beautification as the object, but in line with
:he Victory Garden program throughout the na—
:ion, a slightly different contest was promoted
'or 1942.

There were two classes, one for adults and one
for the junior gardeners. Each class was further
livided into flower and vegetable garden entries.
The vegetable garden entries were far more
nunerous than the entries for flower gardens, but
here were many gardeners who entered both.
Prizes of War Bonds and Stamps, the same amount
n each class and division, were donated by busi-
1ess houses of the city. Parents could supervise
he junior gardens but the work was all to be done
33' the children. Each entrant was given a Victory
3arden placard to place in the window.

There was a preliminary inspection of all gar-
;lens in both divisions in June, and the final in-
spection was made in August when prizes were
Lwarded. Before the final judging of the vege—
:able gardens,_ a notice was sent each gardener to
lave ready for the judges a list showing the utiliza-
ion during the summer, the amount of different
regetables and fruits canned or dried, and what
vas planned for winter storage. This report
:ounted in the final scoring of the gardens.

The judging of the flower gardens came first,
ind after the prizes were awarded, a Garden Tour
0 these gardens was arranged in cooperation with
he bus company. The vegetable gardens were
:specially hard to judge, for there were many out—
;tanding ones. The children’s vegetable gardens
vere much better than their flower gardens, which
)robably was to be expected. Interest was keen
Llld the results quite beyond our fondest expecta—
ions, At the close of the season
.he prize winners were the guests
)f the Civic and Commerce As-
sociation at a public luncheon.
Newspaper publicity and pic—
;ures were of course splendid.

l-A-ST YEAR the Park Board

"Join the Victory Garden Corps—
Have a garden and save all you raise."

By FRANCES KANNOWSKI

Superintendent of Parks
Grand Forks. North Dakota

Again this year the children and
adults of Grand Forks are going
about the business of defeating
Hitler and Hirohito on the "gar-

den tront" with firm determination.

This year we plan to
sponsor a slightly different
project to stimulate more
gardens, but without com—
petition. We call it the
“Victory Garden Corps.”
The only requirement for
enlistment is a vegetable
garden. We are not stressing flowers this year,
realizing that for 1943 the vegetable garden is a
necessity wherever it is economically possible, that
there may be plenty to eat for the coming winter.
If there is time and space,~ we hope flowers will be
grown also, and what perennials are established
will be cared for and not torn out to make room

for vegetables.
_____________________

VEGETABLE GARDEN SCORE CARD
Gardener: ....................................................................................................... ..

Address: .......................................................................................................... ..
Date: .............................. ..Garden Score: ................................................. ..
lst Visit 2nd Visit
Points

I. General Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 30 ................ ..
1. Arrangement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..15 ................ ..

2. Variety of Vegetables in Garden. ..15 ................ ..

II. Appearance and Condition . . . . . . . . .. 30 ................ ..

1. Freedom from weeds . . . . . . . . . . . ..15 ................ ..

2. Freedom from insect injury . . . . . ..10 ................ ..

3. Vigor and growth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 ................ ..

III. Usefulness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 40 ................ ..

1. Utilization during summer . . . . . . . .15 ................ ..

2. Planned for winter use . . . . . . . . . ..25 ................ ..
a. Canned and dried
b. Roots stored
Total . . . . . . . . 100 ............... ..

Remarks : .......................................................................................................... ..

A preliminary specification sheet is to be made
out by each gardener showing location, size of
garden, and crops to be planted. The entrant
agrees to garden economically and to the best of
his ability; to use, share, or store for winter all he
raises, to waste nothing. Every gardener is given
a Victory Corps pin to show his membership, and
also a placard to be put in the window of his home,
or to be used as a marker for the garden if it is
located away from his residence.
If possible community garden
space will be provided for those
unable to locate a garden plot
themselves.

( Continued on page 699)
i 661

Children’s Victory Gardens

By J. W. FELDMAN
Superintendent of Recreation
West Hart-lordI Connecticut

.«xv CHILDREN in
\Vest Hartford ex-
perienced the joy

and thrill of gardening for
the first time last summer.
They were members of the
Victory Corps of Children
Gardeners of \Vest Hart—
ford, a project sponsored by the Department of
Recreation and the Agricultural Committee of the
West Hartford Defense Council. That the project
was successful is indicated by the fact that out of
430 children who said they would have gardens,
373 actually had them! This high percentage of
gardeners was due to a number of factors, the
most important of which was the organization
setup of this project.

To plan the organization of the Children’s Vic«
tory Gardens, a citizen committee was set up with
representatives of all garden clubs in the town, the
schools; the newspapers and individuals interested
in gardening.

Members of this committee felt that to insure
the success of the project a person who would
devote full time to visiting and assisting the young
gardeners would be needed. The Department of
Recreation agreed to put a garden supervisor on
its staff. Mrs. E. M. Crampton, who was ap-
pointed to this position, was an important factor
in the success of the project. She had excellent
technical training, a genuine love of gardening,
and tremendous enthusiasm.

To assist the Department of Recreation garden
supervisor, volunteers were secured from the Gar-
den Clubs’ membership who agreed to visit certain
children’s gardens regularly and help the young
gardeners. There were twenty-six such volunteers
who served during the summer. Three to five
visits were made to each child’s garden.

Through the c00peration of the Superintendent
of Schools, Dr. Lloyd H. Bugbee, and the princi—
pals of the twelve public
schools, Victory Garden Clubs
were organized in each school
and given a faculty adviser.
These clubs met at least
weekly and some twice a
week. The work_done by the

662

West Hartford is planting another crop
of children's Victory Gardens this year

"For a boy or girl to learn the value of
the soil. to know that out of eight, ten
or twelve inches of top soil practically
all of the good things of life come is a
’great lesson that should bring joy and
pleas‘ure."——Willis A. Sutton, Superin-
tendent of Schools, Atlanta. Georgia.

  
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  

,children at these club 1
ings was of the gre
importance. Some of .
points covered were p
ning the garden, dra
a plot plan of the gar
type of fertilizer to
rotation of crops, 10‘c -'

of the garden, and other subjects permitting

gardens. A majority of the children followed
plot plan developed in their club meeting.

The gardens varied in size from the
border garden, originally an annual flower bed,
a garden 50’ x 75’. All gardens were at the c
dren’s homes—we did not have school garden-6.

Another important factor in the success of .
project was the cooperation and interest sh
the parents. In some cases the parents were
gardeners who could help the children; in .
cases the parents were not gardeners and the I
den was an opportunity for them to enjoy a
experience with their children. One of the gr
values in this project was that of bringing the .
and parent together through a common int
Other values were the development of inter ._
the soil and the flowers and vegetables whic
be grown in it, and of a childhood hobby
can be carried on throughout life.

Many Values Involved

While visiting gardens on Park Road 0
a little boy came up to the garden superv' -
asked her to visit his garden, though it
registered. He had a plot about 8' x 10’,
least fifty little cucumber plants about th .
tall. The supervisor suggested that he try
some other vegetables. The next time she
the garden the whole family was proud to
her a much larger garden with several vari
vegetables.

A mother and two children from Eng] -
are here for the dura '
an interesting garden,
of herbs,

The children learned
practical things about g
ing last summer, and n o
them enjoyed the exper'

CHILDREN’S VICTORY GARDENS 663

so much that they are planning to have larger gar-
dens this year. They learned, among other things,
the necessity for sun in the life of a garden, and
in the future they will not plant their gardens on
the north side of house or garage or under a tree.
The majority of them planted vegetables, but there
were some combination Bower and vegetable gar-
dens and some well planned perennial and annual

flower gardens.

Twin boys in the Plant District had an interest-
ing vegetable garden which replaced a flower gar-
den of other years. In the center was a bird bath
surrounded by a row of tomatoes well tied up.
Around the tomatoes was a row of swiss chard,
and on the edge were carrots. It made an at-
tractive, colorful garden.

A young girl in a doctor’s family planted pota-
toes and tomatoes in with her flower garden. A
large vegetable garden grown by another girl was
edged with a beautiful bed of annual Bowers. One
boy planted a large patch of tobacco with a scare-
crow in the middle. Another boy had a wonderful
crop of California cucumbers.

There was a sufficient crop in many of the gar-

dens to supply all the vegetable needs of the family -

4

during the summer, and some children had enough
produce for canning.

A high school boy who worked in a laundry
during the day and took care of his garden in the
evening had one of the most complete gardens in
town, from which he supplied a large family with
vegetables all during the summer.

One family of six children, who had lost their
father two years before, had a large well-kept gar-
den. Their principal interest was to supply food
for the family for the entire year.

All kinds and varieties of vegetables were grown.
The radish was the most popular, next came string
beans, then beets, carrots, lettuce and swiss chard.
Tomatoes were found in all gardens. Corn, broc-
coli, cabbages, cucumbers, and squash were found
in some. Where the family members were real
gardeners, many other vegetables were found such
as peppers, egg plant, brussel sprouts, okra, ro-
maine, soy beans, parsley, turnips, onions, pump-
kins, 1in1a and Kentucky wonder beans, and celery.

Score Sheets

As the garden supervisor and the volunteer
leaders visited the gardens they kept the score
sheet illustrated on the next page.

 

Courtesy Brooklyn Botanic Garden

The time to start planning your Victory Garden is NOW! -—

664 CHILDREN’S VICTORY GARDENS

TOWN OF WEST HARTFORD. CONNECTICUT

Department of Recreation

 

 

 

VEGETABLE GARDEN
Name : : .......................................................................................................... ..
School:. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ..
Date started garden: ............................................................................... ..Date finished garden: ............................................................................... ..
Made plot plan plot plan: .................................................................................. ..
|
Changed plan: ......................................................................... .. Reason: .............................................................................................................................. ....
Name of person making each score: ............................................................................................................................................................................... ..
Perfect
I T E M S Score Date Date Date
I l
Good Location: 10
Good garden soil, drainage. 5
, Sunlight at least 6 hours a day.
Not too close to trees or shade. 5
Arrangement of Ram: 30
Tall plants away from small ones. 5
Straight rows. 5
Good distance between rows and between plants in row. 15
Kinds and number of plants, to meet purpose of having
garden. 5 -
Good Cultivation and Care: 50
Soil not baked, but line and loose showing evidence of 1
regular cultivation. 15
Freedom from weeds. 15
Plants healthy and thrifty and free from insect or
disease injury. 20
Succession Cropping: 10
Absence of bare spots. 5
Keeping garden producing all summer. 5
Tom. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .. 100

llmnmtlllllmommiiulOulnl"..ulllulull.ul.l.¢¢I.OI”"IOOIIII niacin-OUOIIIOIII Donn-IOOOuDOODII 000's 00-01-1001 . ".0.' 0.....

 

a...“ nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn o.- uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu on n n I I n I I o I a o D I o D D o D o n n I a I s a I I o I o I o I I o I I o I o I I I a D I o u I o n I n c I I I o n I I I o a o D D o o D D o D o n n o I n I n I I I a n o o o I o a u I a o I o I n I I o I I n n a
I o I o I I u - n o - u - I - D I u o u

 

CHILDREN’S VICTORY GARDENS 665

This score sheet was found unsatisfactory for pated in this show and their exhibits drew praise
use in grading children, so it is planned to have a from the judges and the spectators.
simplified garden score sheet next year, which will The schedule of classes and rules for elementary
be as follows: and junior high school pupils in this show was as
follows:
FLOWERS
TOWN OF WEST HARTFORD. CONNECTICUT n (must be grown by exhibitor)

Annual asters, 3 blooms.
. Dahlias, 3 blooms.
. Marigolds, African, 3 blooms.

Department of Recreation 1'
2
3
4. Marigolds, French, 3 blooms.
5
6

GARDEN SCORE

15..

Name .......................................................................................................... .. . Zinnias, large flowering, 3 blooms.
. Any other flower, 3 blooms.
Address ................................................................... .. Tel ....................... ..
VEGETABLES
School ................................................................... .. Grade ...................... .. (must be grown by exhibitor)
1. Beans, green, flat, 12.
Age ............................................................................................................. .. 2. Beets. tops removed, 3.
3. Caibbage, 1 head.
 Datc 4. Corn, 3 ears.
5. Cucumbers, 3.
Interest . . . . . . . . . . . 15 6- Peppers: one Variety, 3-
Effort . . . . . . . ..'. . . 20 7. Tomatoes, one variety, 3.
.GARDEN 8. Tomatoes, small fruiting, 13.
13:13“??-        13 9. Any other vegetables, 1 or more.
Cultivated . . . . . . . . . .15 10' carmts’ 3'
Weed“ """""" " ‘5 ARTISTIC ARRANGEMENTS

Properly Thinned . . 10

’ A k' d If ' 'bI
Succession of Crops 10 ( "'3’ m 0f f0 09*? P37773133! 6’)

l. Arrangement suggesting fall, using any plant material
in any suitable container.

 

100 2. Arrangement of flowers or fruit in a container made
from a fruit or vegetable.
_ 3. Any flowers for some special use, as arrangement for
Size of Plot ........................................................................................... .. use on desk, kitchen Window Sill, birthday gift, or for
a shut-in, etc. Write on a card for what use it is
Estimated value of produce raised .......................................... .. intended.
4. Small arrangement, not to exceed 10 inches over all,
Comments: ..................................  ........................................................ .. any type container.
5. Arrangement in a bean pot.
........................................................................................................................ ” RULES
........................................................................................................................ .. I. Read schedule carefully.
2. Classes are open to all residents of \Vest Hartford.
........................................................................................................................ .. 3. Entries may be  evening previous  Sho‘v.
4. Registration begins at 8:00 A. M. and closes promptly
..............  at 11 :00.
Signature of Leader 5. Only one exhibit may be entered in each class.
6. Containers will be furnished for straight classes.
(Horticul tu ral)
Vietofy HarveSt Garden Show 7. In all straight classes materials must have been grown
As a fitting climax to the garden season, a Vic- by exhibitors.
tory Harvest Garden Show was held in September 8. Exhibits must remain in place until end of Show.
for all gardeners of West Hartford. A sp€Cial 9. Exhibitors’ containers should have names and ad-
schedule was prepared for elementary and junior dresses written on adhesive tape pasted on bottom.

high school pupils. Many of the children partici- 10. Committee not responsible for exhibitors’ property.

Passing the Playground Back to the Parents

Summer playground staffs are faced with a crippling manpower shortage
again this summer. When calling out volunteers to supplement your

professional workers, don’t forget to invite the playground parents!

Our Best Ambassadors

By ROBERT W. CRAWFORD

Director of Recreation
Montclair. New Jersey

HE BUILDING UP of public relations is one of

the recreation executive’s most important

duties. Many of us have half-heartedly met
this challenge, preferring to Spend most of our time
on building a strong program. Desirable as such a
program is, an executive will not get the support
he should have if the community is not adequately
educated to what is being done.

One of the best publicity media is the use of
volunteers. These people know what we are try-
ing to accomplish, the values derived and benefits
received, and they are our best ambassadors. If
for no other reason, volunteers should be used.
There are, however, many other tangible reasons.
Many volunteers are skilled technicians along
some particular line, some are former profession-
als who have had training and experience, and
others are bubbling over with enthusiasm which
needs only to be guided into the proper channels.

During the past summer we used volunteers ex-
tensively in our summer program. More than one
hundred gave freely of their time to supplement the
efforts of our regular staff and thereby made it
possible for us to meet the additional needs at
this time.

How was this accomplished? What type of ser-
vices did they render? Through what sources were
their services secured? What training, if any, did
they receive? What contribution did they make?
These questions are continually being asked.

So great was the need
for volunteers in the pro-
tective services that there
were comparatively few
who came forward and
voluntarily offered their-
serviccs in the held of
community service. inter.-

666

_would they be likely to attend? Would they li

How valuable are volunteers in the recreation
movementTExecutives have long discussed this_
question, and opinion has been divided. No'w',
however."th the roster of professional work-
ers depleted by the war, volunteers have been
elevated to a "preferred" position. No longer
"tolerated" but eagerly sought for. their ser-
vices are gratefully accepted as indispensable.

   
  
 
  
    
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 

pretation and education were necessary to impr
on the public the value of enlistment for comm
nity service and the direct contribution to the
effort which such service represented.

How We Went About It

Each Parent-Teacher Association sent out a l
ter to members while school was still in sessi
stating that the Public Recreation Department h
expressed an interest in running a playground f
their area if enough children were interested, . '
asking their c00peration in filling in a questio
naire. The questionnaire asked such questions .
How many children and young people would be
home this summer? How many sessions wee

the playground open morning, afternoon and e
ning? What specihc activities would they m
like to see included, such as active games, d
matics, picnics, crafts, hiking, storytelling, nat
study, etc.? And one of the most important q
tions: Will you give any regular time as a v0
teer assistant in any of the above activities?

One of the mothers contacted those who ‘
pressed a desire to volunteer. The Recr
Committee of the Defense Council went thr
the file of the volunteer ofi'ice to select people
had recreation experience or some special
The high school was asked to distribute a
to juniors and seniors asking if they -.
available as volunteers for the summer progr

Those who planned to work on the playgr
or as leaders of special activities were :~ -
take a training course. This Spring trai '
stitute stressed the importance of recreation
and the responsibilities of leaders; the tecl '
of storytelling and
tional dramatics; pr
construction for the
ground and day t
handcraft as related t
,ture; safety in the
mer program; music,
ing and rhythmic ga

PASSING THE PLAYGROUND BACK TO THE PARENTS 667

self-directed activities; folk
dancing; games for the play—
ground and day camp; arts and
crafts ; and nature recreation and
exploration.

One mother was appointed at
each playground to assist the play leaders in or-
ganizing the mothers. It was her responsibility to
fill the volunteer requirements from the list of
those who registered.

At one playground a nursery class was con-
ducted by the volunteers to care for the children of
mothers who were volunteering.

Five mothers who had had publicity experience
made up the publicity staff, and each was asked to
prepare two feature articles during the summer.
They visited the playgrounds and wrote up human
interest stories and special features. This, of
course, was in addition to the regular publicity of
the department.

Still and moving pictures were taken by an
amateur who had professional qualifications. This
mother visited the playgrounds several times

weekly and many times spent most of the day

taking pictures. Over 500 feet of 16 mm film was
taken. A number of high
school students made

"We cannot escape the fact that
we adults create the environment
that determines the quality of
the development of our children.

—Marsball Field

"A nursery class was conducted by the vd’lunteers to

posters that were used on the
playgrounds dealing with the
,, playground program.

Under the leadership of the
Public Library a corps of vol-
unteers conducted weekly story
hours. A six weeks’ training course was set up for
these people so that they could secure the proper
training and technique. Twenty-live people com-
pleted this course.

In addition to these services the volunteers as-
sisted the leaders with crafts, games, swimming,
hiking, music, dancing, puppets, special features
and the general playground supervision. Many
were scheduled for special activities such as crafts
and puppets at certain hours and days per week,
while others were assigned to general supervision.
A schedule was made so that at least two or three
volunteers were present at each morning and after—
noon session.

A “V” Festival ended the summer program and
was held in the large amphitheater of the local
high school. Dances of our allied nations, games,
stunts, and a craft demonstration composed the
program in which the public playground orches-
tra made its first public
appearance. Banners

care for children of mothers who were volunteering”

 

Federal W arias IA gen cy PI: oto

668 PASSING THE PLAYGROUND BACK TO THE PARENTS

made on the playgrounds representing the various
allied nations’ flags formed the background for the
program. A great number of volunteers assisted in
planning and conducting this program.

Was It Worth While?

\Ve learned through our experience the value of
securing the advice of our volunteers and their sug-
gestions for the program, Before the opening date
the proposed program was discussed with the par-
ents and occasional meetings were held during the
summer so that changes could be made based on
recommendations of the parents. At several of our
playgrounds it was the mothers themselves who
suggested that they raise funds to supplement the
funds available for equipment and supplies.

At the conclusion of the summer season all vol-
unteers were invited to a picnic arranged by the
playground leaders and the Recreation Depart-
ment. The citizens’ Advisory Committee was
present and also the Commissioner under whose
department the Recreation Division functions.
Thus the entire season’s work ended in a friendly
gesture and many of the volunteers are expected
to contribute their services again next year.

Many favorable comments on the summer pro-
gram have convinced us that it has paid to “pass
the playground back to the parents.”

Reading Parents “Join Up"

By THOMAS W. LANTZ
Superintendent of Public Recreation
Reading, Pennsylvania

,1 OT DOGS FOR SALE! Soft drinks over here!
Try a piece of our delicious cake! This way
for your ice cream! Register here for membership

in your neighborhood parent playground associa-

tion! Only 25 cents a year l”

These are the calls of booth-tending parents at
a typical neighborhood playground festival or
money raising affair in Reading, Pennsylvania, any
time during the summer playground season.

Reading’s parents are interested in their chil-
dren and their playgrounds

and the parents’ playground
associations produce re-
sults. Last summer seventy-
two festivals were held and
approximately $10,000 was
grossed, leaving a profit of

"Recreation for boys and girls is even more
important than heretofore because they are
going to need so greatly the exercise, relaxa-
tion, and practice in democratic . associa-
tion they find on the playgrounds and in the
community centers.”—Katberine F. Lenroot.

some $4,000 to be spent by the associations 0
thirty-four playgrounds.

Festivals in Reading are traditional affairs. 0
could trace them back to the days before the cit
had a municipally supported department of publ’
recreation. The people still continue to raise fun
to aid their near-by playgrounds and the May
and Councilmen are grateful for the supplemen
ary aid.

It is amazing to see how hard fathers and motl
ers work days in advance of a festival, as ma
details arise and much planning must be acco
plished. Several associations hold Fourth of Ju
celebrations on the playground every year. Pa
ents work in shifts behind the refreshment stan
or in the field house kitchens all day on the F ourt
even until late at night. Some association me
bers help the regular playground leaders with t
morning contests for hundreds of children; other
look after the details of a double-header base
game in the afternoon. One parent is announci ,
events over a public address system; another i
assigned to the professional band which has be
engaged for the afternoon and evening.

\Vhen festivals are held by parents’ associati
on days other than holidays, the event usua
takes place in the evening on the playground. T
Board of Recreation grants two permits during t
summer playground season to each associati
and financial statements of the receipts and e
penses are submitted to the Board. Each ass '
tion has its own ofiicers and is autonomous
handling its expenditures.

The Bureau of Parks has been most gener
in paying for professional bands which play
festivals. These concerts have been suppleme
by the WPA band. Last summer, every t
ground had a band concert with a festival. W
a second festival is held during the season, L
neighborhood association either pays for en
tainment or obtains it free.

The Board of Recreation has a policy that
sociations must spend their profits for the b -
of their own particular playground. The
tions confer with the superintendent on all n
so that the expenditure is a wise one. When
permanent playgrou
equipment is to be t
chased, the associat'
sends a committee to t
superintendent and
agreement is reached.
the superintendent plac

  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
      
  
   
 
  
     
  

nor

PASSING THE PLAYGROUND BACK TO THE PARENTS

a requisition with the purchasing agent of the city
and when the equipment arrives, a bill is sent to
the association for payment to the city treasurer.
No money is handled by the superintendent.

The superintendent also guides the associations
in the expenditure of funds for other purposes. If
money is needed for handcraft supplies or electric
victrolas, he suggests this to the associations.

Parents’ playgrounds associations in Reading
have used their funds for the following purposes:

1. To purchase handcraft supplies such as paint, cloth,
or lumber which can be used by all the children.
(The money is given to the playground leaders who
keep an accurate account of expenditures and turn
in a statement at the end of the season.)

2. To take the children on a picnic 'and provide re—
freshments.

3. To buy permanent playground equipment such as
swings and Slides.

4. To furnish transportation either in trolleys or
busses to city-wide folk dance festivals.

5. To supply uniforms and some athletic equipment
for teams.

6. To provide awards, such as defense stamps for war
bond slogan contests and special holiday events.

7. To repair broken equipment and aid the main-
tenance crew in keeping the baseball diamonds in
shape.

8. To make costumes for folk dance festivals and

pageants.

9. To buy tables, chairs, dishes, kitchen equipment and
similar supplies for field houses.

10. To aid the city in paying for wading pools, park
benches, and small shelters.

11. To purchase electric phonograph records and pub-
lic address systems.

12. To provide motion picture equipment.

13. To supply electric lights and floodligh-ts, and, in
some instances, pay for the electric current.

In addition, members of the associations help to
maintain discipline, act as judges and umpires at
Special events and athletic contests, hold Christ-
mas and Hallowe’en parties for theiichildren, and
show motion pictures. Several of the associations
sponsor Boy Scout troops and Camp Fire Girl
groups.

During the summer of 1942 a patriotic parade
was scheduled as a climax to the summer play-
ground season. This event took the place of the
annual pageant. The parents’ playground associa-
tions worked for weeks preparing costumes and
floats, and when the parade went down the main
street of the city there were seven divisions, com-
posed entirely of playground children and their
parents. The other two divisions of the parade
were made up of public officials, civic clubs, de-
fense groups, and veteran organizations. Four

669

 

,
.01“

Reading playground children in a scene
from their health pageant—"Pandorama"

professional bands of the city donated their ser-
vices free of charge and many amateur drum and
bugle corps were in line. With thousands of chil-
dren and members of parent’s playground associa-
tions in the parade, one can readily visualize the
tremendous effect the parade had upon the public
officials and citizens of Reading.

Playground Federation
About ten years ago the thirty-four parents’

playground associations decided to federate and

tJt' PASSLVG [HE Wail} GROUND BACK TO THE PARENTS

 

Mofhers and older girls helped fo make costumes
for this dramatic group in Burlingame, California

called themselves the
Playground Federation.
Each of the associations sends two delegates to
the Playground Federation meetings which are
held four times a year. The Federation is inter-
ested in maintaining high standards and seeing
that City Council appropriates adequate funds for
the municipal department of recreation. Meetings
of the Federation are always concluded with an
hour of social games and refreshments.

Fifteen-Point Program
Recently the Playground Federation adopted a
fifteen-point program to aid the war effort. This
was the result of many organizations asking “How
am we aid the war effort ?” They now have the
If iimving program under way:

1. Eu; war bonds and stamps.

Z. \"lut.toer _m.!t’ «cruces tn the titilian Defense
f ouneil U; registering at \ ulunteer Headquarters.
45 North Fourth btreet, Telephone 3-7413.

inter t'u trading enur~e~ rfferetl by the local
uaptvr of t' c \merican Red ( ross,136 South Fifth
“Wt "'lqrhone #4831. (Nurses are gixen in
ltr" 'ud, '\"1r ‘0, :\i¢lu, Humt Yttrsing. Gray
I."  , ‘a_ m .1, Na l'r- ductiun :' u making
' .tanrlagr . t - 4a.  ".t~ J

1

1 Put ‘oa - ..v. -_ flap on ..n '.t_...-'r-- ind ~~er| 1311}
min)! thr ' '11 FT

7 li' ‘ ll: . (i .‘K' i. '1. l .l .49" 110 uttcdac ‘ «tidy ll
y 'at' =1- r on. at "arm lncmde song bottle
.a. -. i .4? t'asurs, tray“: aads and [)CIICllr,
«am: i oat n .a,.~ n. «lei-14.» 4 ii rhythm ham.

instrt noon!

0. Know and be able to
lead at least ten songs
and fifteen games. (See

Recreation Department for help.) Attend the De-

partment’s training schools.

7. Volunteer your services in school gymnasiums used
by the Recreation Department; in community centers
and field houses, and on playgrounds. Act as judges.

referees, hostesses, leaders of activities, if you have
the skills.

8. Keep up morale by having parties throughout the

.year for your association and for the children in your
neighborhood.

9. Give childf'en responsibility such as helping you put
up the blackout curtains, and serving with the Junior
Red Cross, First Aid, and Junior Air Raid Wardens.

10. Keep physically fitl Join a Recreation Department
physical fitness class. Get a group together in your
neighborhood and use the nearest school gym. Ask
the Recreation Department for leadership.

11. Take a nutrition course, a prerequisite for canteen
service, taught by qualified home economists. Ten two-
hour courses. No charge to you. Register with the

Red Cross, 136 South Fifth Street, Telephone 4-4831.

12. Save'valuable waste materials. Sell waste materials
for defense purposes and use the money for the bene-
fit of your playground.

l3. Encourage more family play in the home. Set aside a
"date" night for your children at home. Ask for the

Recreation Department’s bulletin, “Morale Thru
Play.”

ll. Develop neighborliness by inviting near-by friends to
join with you in your home recreation programs.
Sing, play cards and games, pitch quoits, picnic
together.

(5 Foster healthy and profitable spare-time activities.

PASSING THE PLAYGROUND BACK TO THE PARENTS

Playground Mothers in Action

By ALFRED O. ANDERSON
Director of Physical Education and Recreation
Board of Education
St. Louis. Missouri

HE MOTHERS of St. Louis have caught the spirit

of play from their children. They may be seen
on the playgrounds almost any summer night play-
ing a neat game of net handball or volleyball while
approving husbands watch perambulators parked
about sidelines and playground children desert
their own games to root for “Mom.”

These women learned about the contagious play
Spirit fifteen years ago when they started to or-
ganize a remarkable program of aiding children’s
playgrounds and ended up by founding one of the
largest women’s social-ath-
letic organizations in the city.
If play was a good thing for
children, these women
thought, perhaps it might
even_ benefit the mothers.

The St. Louis Playground
Mothers’ Circle which was
organized in 1928 by Mrs.
Harry W. Hoffman to sup-
port the work of the seventy-
eight public school play-
grounds has rapidly become a
vital influence in St. Louis
recreation. This Circle is the
outgrowth of Mrs. Hoffman’s interest in child wel-
fare, an interest which began in World V’Var I
when she served as district chairman of the Coun-
cil of National Defense.

Beginning modestly with the establishing of a
playground on a vacant lot, the group has ex-
tended its support to include seventy-eight local
groups. The Circle has a budget which covers in-
numerable playground expenditures, and an ath-
letic program of bowling and volleyball for hun-
dreds of mothers whose ages range from twenty to
sixty. In addition to the regular schedule of the
bowling and volleyball leagues, members carry on
unscheduled games locally.

The unique feature of the Circle’s contribution
to the playgrounds is not its generous financial
support, but the close personal interest of members
in their neighborhood playgrounds. 80 strong is
that interest that many playgrounds have become
centers of community interest to a wholesome de-

"We cannot feel satisfied with our work
until every child in our city has a play-
ground within reasonable distance from
his home; a place where he can carry on
child activities in natural groupings with
children of his own age. When we say play-
grounds we think of a playground under
the direction of an understanding adult
who can think back to childhood without
too great a strain on his memory and who
is able to interpret the needs of his chil-
dren in the light of modern demands
upon lite.”—Grant D. Brandon, Super-
intendent of Recreation, Lancaster, Pa.

671

gree. Each local group is interested specifically in
the conduct of a single playground. City-wide
playground problems are the over-all concern of
the executive group of the Playground Circle
which is in constant touch with individual play-
ground groups as well as with the Director of Phys-
ical Education and Recreation for the St. Louis
Public Schools.

At the first general summer playground staff
meeting, Mothers’ Circle representatives get ac-
quainted with members of the playground staff and
establish the relationship which is to function for
the playground season. Staff members are urged
to accept the cooperation of the local mothers who
know the problems of individual neighborhoods
which new workers, however well trained, cannot
know at the beginning of the season.

A casual glance at the correspondence of the
playground circles with the
Director of Physical Educa-
tion and Recreation shows the
breadth of their interest as
well as the splendid coopera—
tion existing between the
playground administrator and
the mothers’ circle. Commen-
dation of staff members, ap~
preciation of the work done
for neighborhood children,
requests for changes in play-
ground hours or additional
equipment, suggestions for
specific improvements of local
conditions -——all are received and when advisable
acted upon by the recreation office. In turn the
administration may request the assistance of the
Mothers’ Circle in handling such problems as loi—
tering upon the playgrounds after closing hours or
arranging transportation for children to and from
interplayground games. '

Innumerable playground problems are solved by
an appeal to the Mothers’ Circle. Does the director
need additional handcraft supplies? Is she a bit
short on help and could someone come over and
assist with storytelling? Would new costumes add
to the success of the local dance pageant? Is it
going to be difficult to get the children out to the
stadium for the city-wide dance pageant? All these
questions and dozens of others are answered each
season by the members of the local mothers’ group.

Members of the Mothers’ Circle may stimulate
the lagging morale of playground workers by

(Continued on page 705)

'

Our Times Party

By LUCILE JAMES

Etta we ARE, rushing
H around to first aid
classes, putting away
with physical fitness exer~

cises. being so efficient about
our shopping, and keeping

the heat down to a patriotic sixty-Five. \Vhat mades

to-Order material for a party!

Gather some other active citizens and spend an
evening laughing at your own fervent antics. Cer-
tainly it won’t be hard to invent such a party, with
inspirations popping up every day of your life.

The invitations will set the theme and the “walk-
don’t-ride” pace. Compose a nonsense verse for
the inside page of the invitation,
something like this:

  
 

\Valk—don't ride—to this party,
Or paddle a bike for two.

And come prepared for fuel-less
fun—

It's the “rational” thing to do.

Decorations will be fun to
make, Don’t spend a nickel on
them. Contrive them all out of
second-hand materials and daily
newspapers. Let economy be
the keynote and ingenuity the crowning glory.

Near the entrance set up a checking booth, oper-
ated by the \Var Production Board. Guests check
their luxury wraps there, to be claimed again after
the duration of the party. Likewise they might
check their precious footwear, donning bedroom
slippers which they have brought along in the in-
terests of shoe conservation. This comfortable-
slipper idea will lend an informal note to the party
and will break the ice immediately.

On one side of the room are the headquarters of
the Oliice of Civilian Defense. Here are posters
inviting you to become everything from a sand-
shoveler to a surgeon. A busy ofiicial sits at the
desk in a flurry of papers and registration cards.

Each guest is asked to register for a class under
the OCD, and this he does at the desk. Later
these classes will put on skits of their activities, so
the groups should be fairly equal in number. This
is done by putting a quota on each class. When
each quota is filled the remaining registrants must
sign for some other class.

On another side of the room is the United

672

There'l‘l be no shortage of fun at this
laugh-at-yourselt party for civilians

Walk, den‘T nae,

But be sure. To come—-

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
   

States Employment S
vice, likewise decorated \
posters and sample a
tionnaires. A bulletin b
stresses especially the 1
of domestic servants:
you are between five and ninety-five we hav-
position for you as maid. Fabulous salary.
ployers waiting here to be interviewed.”

At the far end of the room is the table for
freshments, laid out like a Victory Garden. Em
seed packets mark the rows of vegetables
miniature hoes and spades form a border.
tools can be made from cardboard and long in
sticks if no children in the n'
borhood have toy tools to l

Beside the table hangs a p
ter outlining the elements
nutrition. (Such posters may
borrowed from a local agency
made roughly by hand on sc
cardboard.) Around the
are more posters promoting
manner of civilian wartime n :
ures—keep physically fit, 5
between 10 and 3, only-one-
a-customer, carry your own packages, turn t
your lights, pull down the shades, don’t ho
conserve your. clothes, read the newspapers, .
write by V-mail !

Newspaper clippings are also good, espec'
those how—to-do-it articles which give direct'
for anything from baking synthetic cakes to sa
your soles.

-I-

  

  

Fill in the Blanks

Everywhere the guests turn there are also c
tionnaires for them to fill out. The 0CD,
\VPB, and the USES all have planks at t
headquarters. Then hand out others on asso
subjects such as fuel shortage, farm labor,
power shortage, priority schedules, transportat
and income taxes, of course! Put some thougl
these questionnaires. Make them as tangled
clever as possible. They’ll make an enterta'
preparty game, and can be read aloud later.

-.

Draft Lottery. Another preparty game and n '
is draft lottery. This will serve to introduce gue
to each other if they are not already acquaint 

OUR TIMES PARTY 673

As each one enters he receives a sheet of paper
with thirty-six squares, six down and six across,
marked on it, (This number may vary with the
size of the party.) In each square he must write a
separate guest’s name until all the paper is filled.

The lottery part of the game comes when every—
one is seated, ready to check off names. The “head
of the local draft board” then picks names of the
guests from a hat and each name is crossed off as
it is called. The first person to cross out six names
in a straight line, vertically, horizontally, or diago-
nally, is proclaimed the winner.

Alphabet Mixer. Another game starts with guests
sitting in a circle, one
person in the middle. Each
player is given the ini-
tials of a governmental
agency. The person in the
center points to anyone in
the circle, saying quickly,
“Right!” or “Left!” and
counting up to ten. The
person pointed to must
immediately name his
neighbor on the right Or
left, together with the
proper governmental initials of that person before
the number ten is reached. Otherwise he changes
places with the person in the center.

Possible initials are almost numberless. The
more common ones, past and present, include
VVPA, TVA, 'WLB, P\VA, FSA, OWI, FVVA,
NRA, FCC, NYA, \VMC, WPB, OCD, SEC,
ICC, FTC, RFC, OPA, NHA, ODT, FPC, AAA.
etc., etc. If necessary, two or three people may use
the same initials.

 

Bicycle Built for Two. Relay races always inject
a festive note into a party, especially if they’re
more silly than serious. In keeping with the trans-
portation difficulties, the first one should honor the
faithful tandem bicycle. Two people from each
team run at one time as a pair. One behind the
other, they high-step along in rhythm down to the
goal line and back.

Saturday Shopping. The same relay teams next
imitate the Saturday morning shopping trip when
all provisions for the week are purchased at once.
Two large grocery bags, filled with newspapers
almost to the top and then crowned with assorted
boxes and fruits and vegetables, are given to each
team. Also two or three smaller packages, a knit-
ting bag, umbrella, and a largish hat to wear to

market. If the hat fiies off en route or if a box

bounces out of the bags, the poor shopper must
stop and pick it up before continuing on 1115 trip.

Fuel Shortage. To determine the champion re-
lay team give them this

. - final race wherein they
climb into warm clothes to
spend a quiet evening at
home. As each person takes
his turn he puts on two
pairs of woolen socks, a
pair of immense ski boots,
two sweaters, a heavy
woolen scarf, an over-size
overcoat, another scarf out-
side, mittens, ear muffs,
and a skating cap pulled well down over the fore-
head. If the runner can still move, he trundles
down to the goal line and back and passes his
lounging outfit on to his next teammate.

    

 

Finn- A'm Cums

Victory Garden

Down by the Victory Garden table the agricul-
tural experts meanwhile have been concocting light
refreshments or a buffet supper.

Assorted sandwiches and small helpings of cole
slaw with shredded carrots would make a healthful
and appetizing plate. Or for a supper, set a huge
bowl of vegetable salad in the middle of the garden
rows. Serve small rolls or muffins with this, and
finish off the supper with cheese and crackers.
Beverages will be a problem unless you have sev-
eral kinds so the demand on any one kind won’t be
impossible to meet. A choice of several, such as
milk, tea, coffee, ginger ale, or grape juice, will not
only please your guests, it will ease the strain on
your respective ration cards.

\Vhile the guests are eating they could play the
familiar old rumor game. In this instance someone
starts a rumor about a new kind of rationing. He
whispers the news in
someone’s ear, the second
.\ person passes it on, and
so it goes buzzing around
the room. When it comes
out at the end the facts will
be thoroughly twisted and
the sense garbled. All of
which will just prove once
again that you can’t be-
lieve everything you hear.

(Continued on page 701)

—

 

 

"Rumor- has it. . ."

Ten Days of Teacher Education Out of Doors

By E. D. PARTRIDGE, L. B. SHARP, and W. G. VINAL

nose wno are familiar
Twitll the writings of Dal-

las Lore Sharp may re-
member his treatise, “Five
Days and an Education,” pub-
lished in Harpers in the mid-
dle twenties. In this delightful
and stimulating summary of his education the au-
thor concludes that although he went to school for
nineteen years, “an appalling length of time." he
received his real education in five different episodes
which he describes in some detail. The major
changes in his life came as a result of certain ex—
periences that were capitalized upon by adults who
happened to be present at the time.

Several times M r. Sharp asks wistfully what can
be done to give all teachers something of this
quality that will help them to look for opportune
moments in the lives of young people so that such
rare experiences can be multiplied and that educa-
tional method will not rest so firme cold on les-
son books, assignments and grades.

It may be that an answer has appeared to this
need for new education for youth and teachers.
At any rate, thirty-two student teachers from the
six state teachers colleges of New Jersey met in a
ten-day Camping Education Institute last June.
They participated in a series of experiences de-
signed to give them this very approach to teach-
ing—an approach that rests basically in the belief
that education can be a joyful as well as con-
structive experience and that youngsters can be
educated in the out of doors.

The institute was organized and conducted by
National Camp of Life Camps, Inc., in the Kitta-
tinny Mountains, at the request of the New Jersey
State Director of Teacher Training. Unlike most
courses of this type there were no classes, no fields
of specialization. Rather there was a rounded and
full program of outdoor living, nature education,
adventure, recreation and inspiration. So whole-
hearted was the response of the students to this ap-
proach that it seems advisable to pass on the gen-
eral outline of approach for what it may be worth.
\Vho knows, this may he the beginning of a real

movement to train prospective teachers to use the

out of doors as a part of their teaching material!

674

The authors of this article are well known
in the fields of camping and education.
E. D.-Partridge is author of Time Out
for Living, L. 8. Sharp is Director of
Life Camps; Inc.. and "Cap'n Bill" Vinal
is familiar to all readers of Recreation.

The students who partici-
pated varied in age, experi—
ence, home background. and
ability. Some were recent
graduates, others fre s h me 11
just beginning the course of
teacher education in the state.

Nearly half of them were planning to serve as
counselors in summer camps in the summer. Sev-
eral had never been in camp before and one or
two had never slept in the outdoors, and yet they
were about to go forth as teachers to inSpire youth.

According to the evaluations by the students

themselves the ten days gave them unforgettable
experiences and demonstrated the value of teach-

ing through meaningful patterns of experience.
Every part of living was designed to have mean-
ing. Meal planning, shelter construction, nature
explorations, evening prOgrams, Sunday vespers,
overnight trips, creative handcrafts were all part
of the pattern. Typical of the evaluations by stu-
dents are the following:

“To me, as a prospective teacher, this course has
helped bridge the gap that so often exists between
camping and school work. I have learned that by
careful integration camping can be made a vital and
almost necessary part of the school work. Many
children have practically memorized a text book and
yet when the time comes to use that knowledge under
actual working conditions, they are hopelessly lost.
I believe that each child should have the right to
actual camping experience almost as much as he has
the right for actual schooling. Therefore, how can
we as teachers provide this right if we ourselves are
not prepared to do so ?”

 

“When I came to camp I expected to learn the
usual camper’s knowledge of building fires and learn-
ing how to make camp trails. Instead we have gott
many, many times that. Not only did we learn fun—
damentals, but we learned them from the necessity of
needing to use them. To illustrate, I might mentith
our experiences of cooking our own breakfasts and
suppers out of doors. Even after the cooking of at
least seven meals out I was still as thrilled and sur-
prised when the last dinner was edible as I was when
the first time our salmon loaf went the rounds twice
and we were still longing for more.”

\Vhat kind of a program gave young people this
feeling about outdoor living? Perhaps the content

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

TEN DAYS OF TEACHER EDUCATION OUT OF DOORS 675

of the course can be set forth
even if the spirit cannot.

Trips of Discovery

After 7 :15 breakfast the group
usually met for a forenoon “ses-
sion” with “Cap’n Bill.” These
sessions were designed to give
the students a progressive series
of experiences in exploration and induction. After
a careful buildup together they would separate into
smaller groups and go in search of various things.
Care was taken to include the whole range of
teachable material in these experiences rather than
to limit them to subject-matter demarcations.

Biology, entomology, ecology, psychology, history,
and sociology were evident as the students ex-
plored an abandoned farm, read the history of a
stump or trudged into an ancient bog. Perhaps
one of the biggest discoveries of all was that one
could have real fun without turning a radio dial.
driving a car, or going to the corner movie. Many
of the students brought tennis racquets, party
dresses, and Spending money which gathered dust
for ten days while they were out living real experi-
ences which cost nothing. These morning explora-
tions included the following:

Thursday—The Wood Alphabet. Collecting and

making miniature boards from chestnut and white
oak by use of saw and axe. Obtaining a pine and
oak board. Find-
ing examples of
wormy chestnut,
quartered oak,
hard pine floor,
veneering, and ply-
board in the li-
brary. Under-
standing the con-
struction of the
building and fur—
niture.

Friday -- Stump
Scouting. Cooper-
ative group work
interpreting the
life history of the
tree, number of
forest fires, how
and why the men
cut the tree, and
numerous other

Itwould not be surprising, it has been
suggested. it the ten-day Camping
Education Institute which was held
last summer in the Kittatinny Moun-
tains of New Jersey should prove
to be the beginning of a real
movement to rtrain prospective
teachers to use the out of doors as
a part of their teaching material.

vital items evidenced by the tree
stump. An adventure in scien-
titic reasoning. Each group
elected a spokesman to present
the story of the stump they had
studied.

Saturday—More Nature Prob-
lems. Carrying the idea of prob-
lem solving a little further. This
time the nature problems in one small camp area
were analyzed. A bee tree was cut for honey, chest-
nut trees reproduced by coppice and cut for rail-
road ties in the hrst World War, a raccoon den in a
hollow chestnut, a woodchuck observation post on
top of a hurricane oak, and evidences of prospect-
ing for clay and gravel were assigned to five groups
who presented their findings as proof of logical
thinking. They were amazed at the wealth of ma-
terial just outside a camp kitchen.

Sunday—Trip to a Deserted Village. The students
pronounced this “one of the most exciting” adven-
tures. They probed old cellar holes, studied aban-
doned orchards, collected escapes from the herb
garden, inspected stone walls, figured where the
barn, well, woodshed, horse garden, pasture, and
cornfield had been. They composed a story about
the trip to the grist mill, to the Pike to see the
stage coach, and to Port Jervis. The various resets

Future teachers exploring the wonders of
the big 320 acre bog ot Labrador scenery

 

070

were woven into a story be-
fore the whole group. New
terms such as submarginal,
resettlement. state forests and
recreation, and rural relief
were clarified. They called it
“functional pedagogy.”
Monday—Bog Trotting. An
adventurous trip to the big 320 acre bog of Labra-
dor scenery—walking in spongy Sphagnum moss,
climbing over submerged trees and through thick-
ets, seeing aphids (ants’ cows), poison sumac,
rhododendrons growing wild and in full bloom,
through waist-high cinnamon fern, studying in-
sectivorous plants, pitcher plants, and otherwise
exploring this unusual natural phenomenon.

Wednesday—The Appalachian Mountains. Type
rocks of the vicinity were presented to help the
students understand the “Roof of New Jersey.”
The students then went afield to collect type speci-
mens, The geology and physiography was empha-
sized that they might get more out of a proposed
trip to see the sunrise. They then analyzed the
way the various rocks had been used in building
roads and fireplaces.

Thursday—Sunrise Trip to Kittatinny Ridge. The
first sunrise for all of them. Study of topographic

This Indian cook out was followed by the
famed "Indian Friendship Night" ceremony

 

Dance which is re-
ed in an article en-

Tha Indian Friendshi
terred to was descri
titled "The Indian Give Away," published
in the November l94l issue of Recrea-
tion. Reprints of this article. together
with another describing Katchina Dolls,
may be secured from the National Recre-
ation Association. Price. titteen cents.

TEN DAYS OF TEACHER EDUCATION OUT OF DOORS

map in preparation for to-
morrow’s hike, They had had
acquaintance with trees, rocks,
glacial phenomena, and maps,
and physical preparation as a
basis for the more strenuous
adventure of the next day.

Friday—Map Trailing. Fol—

lowing down Parker Run via map and compass, a
training trip for cross-country hiking with topo-
graphic map. This live mile trip was as strenuous
as they could do although some clamored for a
fourteen mile trip to High Point. It was, also, as
complex a map trip as they could take. Some
stopped at the Girls’ Camp (a quarter of a mile
away) to inquire the way and hinted for food.

The Art of Preparing Food

The preparation and serving of nourishing food
is an art that all people who wish to enjoy the out-
doors should acquire. Outdoor food need not be
diflicult to prepare—rather there should be real fun
in the preparation of the food and more fun in
eating it. To help the students gain some of this
art a wide variety of experiences was included in
the ten days. Besides cooking several of their own
meals in the small camp groups, there were the
following special eating events:

Buffalo Steak Roast. Learning how the Indians
prepared buffalo steak is an interesting experience
itself, but to cook steak on
a deep bed of coals after
preparing it under the di»
rection of Cap’n Bill is
something to remember.
The steaks were thrown in
a deep bed of coals, turned
once by long-handled forks
and when done brushed off
with witch-hazel twig
brooms made for the occa-
sion. After a journey
through a melted pan of
butter the steaks were
ready for sandwiches which
included pickles, tomatoes,
sweet onions, and relishes
to suit individual taste.

Indian Cook Out. Fried
corn bread, stew in an iron
kettle, birch tea cooked in
front of an Indian tepee,
and fresh fruit is a tempt-
ing combination for hun-

TEN DAYS OF TEACHER EDUCATION OUT OF DOORS 677

gry campers. Committees were assigned to pre-
pare the various parts of the menu and all cleaned
up after the feast. Care was taken to plan for
balanced and nutritive meals. After the meal came
“Indian Friendship Night,” described in more
detail below.

Progressive Supper. Each small camp of about
eight people prepared one course of the evening
meal and the whole group moved from one camp
to the other in the course of the evening. Fruit
cups, cold slaw, meat patties with buns (pickles,
relish and onions to taste, the meat had oatmeal
added to make it go further) and homemade ice
cream appeared at the appropriate time. Home—
made ice cream was so new an adventure that the
students froze it solid before they got around to
turning it.

Cold Suppers. Sunday evening afforded an op—
portunity for a delightful Spread of cold-cuts, salad,
crackers, cheese, and fruit. Served buffet style, this
permitted the cooks to have their Sunday after-
noon off.

Evening Programs

The aim of the evening programs was to fur-
nish a variety of inexpensive experiences which
would provide wholesome entertainment and rec-
reation. These programs grew out of the environ-
ment and traditions of National Camp, but they
could be utilized in any outdoor setting with equal
results. In many cases the evening program was
related to the serving and eating of food in some
unusual way.

The Buffalo steak roast, for example, was fol—
lowed by typical western games, songs, and stunts.
There were whip cracking, roping, and circle
- games followed by cowboy songs by the whole
group.

The night of the Indian friendship dance, the
Indian meal was followed by Indian dancing,
stories and finally the friendship dance which is an
experience few of them will forget. This program
consisted of a dance in which members of the
group gave their friends presents they had made
and friends were expected to return a gift of ap-
proximately equal value. This is an authentic In-
dian custom and a delightful social experience.

The final evening of the institute was given over
to a barn dance at which American folk dances
held sway. \Vith music from a washboard, har-
monica, and piano, the group responded to calls of
“swing your pardner,” “allemand left with the cor-

ners all and grand right and left around the hall.”
They had been given some preliminary instructions
on square dance formations so that although most
of them were new to it they fell into the rhythm
readily. After the dancing there was singing
around the fireplace with a guitar accompaniment.

Outcomes

The question might be raised as to whether a
ten-day experience such as this can have any per—
manent effect upon the teaching methods or edu-
cational philosophy of these students. This ques-
tion would be hard to answer scientifically, and
yet there were many evidences that there was real
carry-over. First of all, the students had a great
time. This can be inferred from the fact that they
voted unanimously to extend the institute and
many of them wanted to stay all summer. (One
graduate actually signed up for the six-week grad-
uate course which followed.)

Other evidences was to be found in the student
evaluations which were written before they left
camp. One can understand a certain amount of
enthusiasm for an experience of this kind, but their
letters indicated a general appreciation for the
objectives that were behind the institute. When a
student writes a statement such as the following
something has happened to his philOSOphy of

education: -

“It is quite frequently hard for me to believe and
realize—and I am a social studies major—that the
things related in our history books are events that
really happened. For the most part they are stories
of which I learned the facts and then promptly for-
got them. When you can read historical facts
through, for example, tree stumps, with the evidence
before your eyes, there is something you won’t be
forgetting very soon. American history could so
easily be made so much more meaningful to so many
children if it could be taught by the exploration
method in the out of doors.”

 

“I am quite sure that my own teaching experience
next September will be enriched a hundredfold be-
cause of this institute. More than any methods course
has yet demonstrated have I been enabled to see the
vital part that experience plays in the learning proc-
ess. It is a searching challenge to any teacher to be
the skilled and adequate guide of a child; to stay in
the background and allow the child to do the learning
by his satisfying his needs in useful activity.”

The real proof of success came when the stu-
dents went back to their colleges and convinced
their presidents of the values in such an experi—
ence. Plans have been definitely made for a two
weeks institute this year.

Nature Therapy at Butler Hospital

By HAROLD L. MADISON and ARTHUR H. RUGGLES, M.D.

.—\TL'RE. with its beauty
N and charm, its wonder

and drama, its orderli-
ness and its permanence, has
been introduced to the men-
tally ill patients at Butler
Hospital. Many of them
have found a new kind of release as they roam
through the extensive grounds of the-hospital.
studying birds, flowers, trees, and shrubs, and col-
lecting nature objects for their rapidly growing
collection in the Hobby Shop.

In the spring of 1941 Harold L. Madison ap-
plied his years of training and experience as a
naturalist to the problem of directing this course
in Conservation of Natural Beauty.

Dr. Ruggles, Superintendent of the hospital, ex-
plained briefly to him the needs of the mental
patients. He pointed out that the thoughts and in-
terests of the mentally ill patient, who has become
selflcentered, discouraged or frustrated, must be
turned to something outside of his own body and
his own problems. The psychiatrist felt that the
daily walks of the patients could be made infinitely
more enjoyable if in addition to fresh air and sun-
shine they gained an intelligent interest in what
they saw all about them.

As a result of these nature walks there has been
a surprising awakening of wholesome thoughts and
feelings in many a patient who learned for the first
time about the growth and development of birds,
insects, shrubs, and trees. Instruction in the con-
servation of natural beauty soon developed into a
healing process for depressed minds and tired
bodies. The naturalist was warned not to be too
technical at first and not to talk down to the
patients, but rather to talk over with them in a
simple fashion the .wonders of nature that were
going on all about them.

The response has been most gratifying. The
nature walks and classes have become increasingly
popular and on class days we often see fifty or
sixty patients walking through the grounds for an
hour and a half, all interested and many of them

thrilled with the new world that has opened to them.
If a patient’s interest and attention is taken from

morbid thoughts and feelings, even for one hour

678

The program of nature therapy at Butler
Hospital in Providence. Rhode Island, was

set up by Harold L. Madison. A.M., tield ex-
ecutive of the Audubon Society of Rhode
Island, in collaboration with Arthur H. Rug-
gles. M.D.. Superintendent of the hospital.

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
  

in the day, and centered
upon normal life and beauty,
it is a step on the road to
more natural thinking, feel—
ing, and acting.

All this meant the adep-
tion of the same sort of
“don'ts” the naturalist had applied to his radio
broadcasting: “Don’t patronize, don’t propagan-
dize. don’t evangelize, don’t preach, don’t teach.”
To these have been added, “don't praise an indi-
vidual in the presence of the group, but substitute
commendation for praise.”

\Vith no professional knowledge of mental ill-
ness, its causes, and treatment, Mr. Madison had
only his experience in educational and in welfare
work as a guide. Over the years he had come to
know something of the efTect of fear, loss of self-
confidence, loss of self-respect, and the value of
courage, the need of encouragement, and the im-
portance of self-discipline.-

A New Adventure

One afternoon early in May the patients went
on the FII'St nature walk. There weresome fort;
of them, plus a,small group of staff personnel. It
was to be an afternoon of adventure and discovery
right on the spacious grounds. And thus it h
remained—informal, casual, chatty, with observa
tions, questions, comments, conversation, and e
a portable radio dispensing grand opera or baseba

Yesterday we searched for cocoons of pr
methea, cecropia and luna moths. Today it rain
so we sat indoors and had a round robin of di
covery about water. Tomorrow we shall see wh
green things are still on the lawn and in the w o .

Twice a week, from May to December, we h
gone on these nature walks when the weather
pleasant. \Ve gather at one-thirty on the fr
lawn in the shade of the beech and oak trees, tl
women coming from their rooms near-by, and tl
men from theirs somewhat farther away. Fr
here we have a choice of many routes, enough .
that the scene fades from the memory before it TI
time to repeat.

We move leisurely, keeping in mind that older
patients walk slowly and climb hills with difficulty.

NATURE THERAPY AT BUTLER HOSPITAL 679

The line straggles at times,
and then it bunches when
something interesting claims
our attentionmoften some-
thing which has been ob—
served by some one other
than the leader. Stops for
explanation are short, three
or four minutes at the most. We walk and talk,
we exclaim and explain, we joke, we toss in a bit
of philosophy coated with banter, we admit we do
not know the answer to some questions and are
assured it is all right even if we cannot give im-
mediate reply.

If a question merits it, we bring in the answer
next time—“Do trees feel pain ?” “Do they talk?”
“Are we familiar with the trees of South America
and have we read the article in a New York paper
about the cork oaks of Spain?”

In our walks we have met ninety-eight different
tree species. There is the big white oak on the
lawn under whose expansive shade we have walked
- many times during the summer. This tree weathered
the hurricane of 1938, and having withstood such
a vicious attack it lives serene with such parasites
as twig borers, leaf chewers, and gall makers. We
have seen its mouse-ear leaves of soft gray turn
to green, its pendant flowers sing in the breeze, its
acorns grow from embryos. We have watched the

leaves turn from green to ma-
roon, to bronze, to copper, and
hang on defiant of winter’s
blasts. -

All of us followed the growth
of its twigs during the summer
and marveled at the newly
formed buds ready set for next
year. We have noted the
rounded tips of its leaves and
the gray bark which distin—
guishes it from such relatives
as the black, red, scarlet,
and chestnut oaks which
grow elsewhere on the
grounds.

Most trees can be iden-
tified easily by their leaves,
but these tags are not
always enough. We have
had to refer to the barks
of black and yellow birch
and of the hornbeams to
know the difference. We

"From an elderly patient not physically
strong, who has returned to his home, came
word the other day that he is studying
trees and making a collection of leaves.
This interest began with our nature walks
and has a breadth which may give him in-
creasing satisfaction the rest of his life."

  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  

have examined the arrange-
ments of branches, leaves,
and buds of different trees
to discover that most are
spirally alternate, while the
arrangements of only a few
-—the maples, ashes, horse-
chestnut, buckeye, and flow-
ering dogwood—are opposite.

Nibbling the barks of black birch, yellow birch,
sassafras and cherry, we have talked about essen-
tial oils from which such flavors as wintergreen
and sassafras come.

The fall of the giant hemlocks in the Grotto was
a tragedy, but we noted that after the hurricane
had removed the dense canopy, nature set about
the task of replanting with blackberry and aster,
pokeweed and goldenrod, huckleberry and elder,
young maple and hemlock, cherry and birch. We
have seen how she is doing a full-time job of re-
turning stumps and fallen branches back to the
soil by putting gangs of fungi and insects to work.

We Discover Flowers

Here on the hospital grounds, within sight of
great manufacturing plants across the river and
within city limits, is the last fine stand of moun-
tain laurel. In June we walked along “Laurel
Trail” and marveled at the beauty of the cup-like

flowers. In December it dominates the .
otherwise naked woods with its glossy
green foliage.

We have had the thrill of discover-

ing pink moccasin flowers in the
shadows of oak and hemlock and have
exclaimed at the beauty of nodding
trillium and solomon seal. Together
we have seen tiny white winter—
green chalices transformed to
red berries, and have counted
the clusters of needles to identify
the different pines.
Q In the fall one of our
walks took us to the apple
orchard where we sampled
Delicious and Bellfiower
windfalls. Cutting an apple
across,many of our patients
saw for the first time its
star center and five seed
packets.

When we visited the
hospital’s vegetable garden

Print by Gedge Harmon

680

there were some in the party who had never seen
carrots, celery and asparagus growing, and others
who made their first acquaintance with a straw-
berry patch!

One day, under guidance of the farm superin-
tendent, we had a look at the bees in the orchard.
The location of the hives there meant good apples
and delicious honey for the patients, come winter.
The boss farmer took the roof off the hive and
lifted a super aswarm with bees. He showed us
queen cells and the queen of the hive, and let us
pass the bees from hand to hand.

Insects have always captured our attention on
our walks. we noticed holes here and there in the
foliage of trees and flowers,
then lace work, rolled
birch leaves, and finally
ravages of the Japanese
beetles. The pocket lens
circulates among the group
for a closer examination of
twig borers, leaf curlers,
gall grubs.

Our walks began just at
the height of the bird mi-
gration before we were ac-
quainted with one another
or with the grounds. The
size of the group has limited
the number of species we
could see. \V e have not
tried for a bird census or
for a record of the bird
population of the area, but
rather have enjoyed seeing
such birds as we meet on the walks.

Not all nature walk days have been pleasant.
On stormy days the walks become talks. One cold
day we discussed how animals meet winter by hi-
bernating, migrating, or facing the freeze. Once
we talked of birth stones, again of rocks, or of
falling leaves, growth, and How of sap.

One day a patient called to our attention the
beauty of the gray trunks of beeches against a deep
blue sky. \V e have found beauty in flowers, twigs,
in bittersweet meandering over a wall, in a redbed
tree against a background of hemlock, in the gold
of maples, the red, bronze and copper of oaks, in
a tiger swallowtail butterfly, in the flight of gulls.

pected.'I

as well as in cure.

Nature at Work

Most important perhaps have been OUr discov-
eries of how nature works. At the top of the

 

One Out of Every Sixteen

Dr. Marion E. Kenworthy. who has specialized
in mental hygienel stated at a recent meeting
of the NationalCommittee for Mental Hygiene:

"We know from years of living and working
with human problems that one out of each six-
teen individuals now in our educational systems
over this vast country will fail to achieve that
complete emotional state of mature adiust-
ment which we call normal. . . . One individual
from each of these sixteen will falter. and in
faltering will finally stumble into a breakdown.
These nervous and mental breakdowns we have
come to assume as inevitable and to be ex-

All who have studied mental breakdown
problems agree that the right kind of recrea-
tion is a very important factor in prevention

 

NATURE THERAPY AT BUTLER HOSPITAL

Grotto is a large horse-chestnut tree with its whole
north side sparse of foliage because the towering
maples and beeches have shut out the sunlight. But
it is carrying on with the sunlight from the south.
We have noticed that the stiff-leafed aster grows
only in sandy soil and that seaside goldenrod
covers the tidal flat of the ravine up to a certain
line where it stops as abruptly as if a barrier had
been erected against it. We have seen how gall
insects are specialized to the point where their
existence depends on establishing nurseries in par--
ticular plants. On the other hand we learned that
flowers such as daisies, buttercups, and asters, and
birds such as robins and starlings, not to mention
crows and jays, are adapt-
able and therefore have a
better chance of survival in
a changing world.

\Ve have neither mini-
mized nor overemphasized
such phenomena as strug-
gle, adaptation, orderliness,
assuming that these are as
much a part of human ex-
istence as of the plants and
animals we have met on
our walks.

On the two walks each
week we have lived in a
changing world which will
repeat itself with variations
next year and in the years
to come, and in it are oper-
ating forces “to be a little
understood, a little used,
but never a little changed.” '

Undoubtedly the value of these walks to the
patient lies in the fact that they open a door
through which self-consciousness escapes, leaving
him free for a time from anxiety about success or
failure, from worry about what is to come. These
wild creatures, plants, and rocks to which his at-
tention is directed, are outside of “self,” not pos-
sessed of a sense of right or wrong nor concerned
with virtue or shame.

And while “self” is in abeyance there comes an
inner peace and a feeling of “aliveness” that might
be called the “joy of life”—a joy that comes from
discovery, from possession, from achievement,
from acclaim. All these and others have been
manifested by different individuals during our
walks.

( C antinucd on page 699)

 

tom: of the Rag Bag

"Make and Mend" Column

F C 0 U R S E y o u
haven’t been ruth—
lessly tossing

wearables into the rag
bag during the past year,
but nevertheless it may
contain a few items worth repair and renovation.
At least you might well take a look at the contents.

Pass over the usual scraps of material good only
for polishing furniture and pull out that dress you
tucked in there two years ago. It’s still in style,
thanks to the frozen fashions, and probably the
only thing really wrong with it is the worn part
under the sleeves.

Side-Panel Dress. Get out your best shears and
c'utna strip several inches wide all the way down
each side of the dress, starting with the sleeves and
continuing down to the bottom. Replace this with
a strip of material of a contrasting or blending
color, so that you now have a dress with full-
length side panels. Add a pocket and perhaps a
belt of the same color. Your rejuvenating project
is complete and the added attractions look as
though they had been there all the time!

Link Belt. Belts or bracelets can be easily made
from that old leather pocketbook you stuffed away
in your bottom drawer. Cut links any uniform size
and shape, then slit them at either end for string-
ing. Decorations of leather, felt, or cloth may be
glued or stitched onto the links. If you use ma—
terial matching your dress for the belt, press it flat
before slipping the links onto it. Heavy ribbon is
also good. Since no buckle is used on this belt the
string should be long enough to be looped or tied
in the front. Bracelets can be made in the same
manner, with smaller and narrower links.

Laced Belt. If a shabby buckle is the only reason
for discarding a leather belt, remove the tattered
part and cut the belt to the size of your waistline.
Then lace ribbon or other material in and out of
slits cut about an inch apart all
around the belt. This strip
should be at least half a yard
longer than the belt itself to
allow for tying or looping in
the front. ‘

 

We suggest you try a little salvage on
the home front. You'll be surprised
to find what possibilities for simple
crafts are hidden in the rag bagI the
back closetI or the bottom drawer!

Lacing of material
matching your renovated
dress or of a comple-
mentary color, will add
the final note to your re—
construction program.

Leathercraft Buttons

Delving deeper into the rag bag, you may un—
earth an old sweater or jacket which is sadly in
need of buttons. Defy all temptation to go to the
five-and—ten—and make your own buttons free!

Again dissecting the old leather purse, cut the
buttons to size and shape—round, square, oval,
etc. Cut two matching pieces for each button,
being careful to reverse the pattern so that both
front and back have the same smooth surface.

You might decorate the front by sewing on a
large colored bead or by sewing or. gluing on a
design cut from a piece of contrasting leather.

A leather loop to fasten the button to the dress
can be inserted through a small hole punched in
the back piece, Spread out the ends of this loop
and glue to the inside surface. Then fasten front
and back pieces together with strong glue and
press down until dry.

These buttons may not be strong enough to bear
much pressure, so it is well to reinforce them with
snaps or use them simply as decorations.

Pin-Money Pins. Leather pins may be made
much the same way as buttons with the exception
of the loop. Sew a small gold safety pin to the,
back piece of leather before the final gluing. You’ll
get cheers' for this button craftsmanship.

Lapel Ornaments. Gay novelty ornaments of any
design can be made from scrap leather pieces, some
glue, and a little imagination. You may cut out the
design in two pieces of leather and glue them to-
gether or make a three dimensional gadget by par—
tially sewing the front and back together with waxed
thread and then stuffing with
cotton or kapoc. Each ornament
may be attached by a leather
thong to a small roll of leather
which slips through the lapel.
buttonhole and holds it in place-

681

Milita ry Service Craits

"A little bit more for the boys at war"

. 1125: THE FIRST students
WIeft the University of
Minnesota for military
service, those who were -left
behind wanted to keep in contact with these ser-
vicemen. A starred service flag was raised, books
were collected, and letters written, but there was
still a lack of interest on the part of the students

toward these “mass appeals.” The average student
did not realize the many little things these military
trainees had to give up because of the stream-
lined, hurriedly formed, and overtaxed training
programs.

In March 1942 someone suggested making per-‘

sonal gifts to send to servicemen. The value of
this suggestion was soon recognized as being
triple barrelled:

I. It would bring the students closer to the
problems of the trainees, would give them a per-
son-to-person contact with the servicemen, and
would afford students a chance to “do something”
for their friends.

2. It would get usable, personal hand-made gifts
to the trainee and would convince him that the

gang back home was beginning to realize what he
was doing for his country.

3. It would offer opportunity to use salvage
material and arouse interest in the conservation

program.

Recreation and craft leaders went into a huddle
with a few former students back on furlough to
find out what small, practical articles the men in
service missed or desired, and which of these arti-
cles could be made by inexperienced persons.

Service Men Need These

Samples were made of
shower slippers, ash trays,
cribbage boards, shoe clean-
ers, pipe cases, whistle Ian-
yards, key cases, picture fold-
ers, writing boards, and shoe
polishers. For the most part,
all items were made of scrap

682

By MARY HAMILTON DE LAPP
CoFiman Memorial Union
University of Minnesota

Military Service Crafts is an ideal war
proiect for community groups, schools,
churches, civic and service organizations.
It can be used as a "morale device," as a
means of unifying neighbors into a war
service club, or as an obiect lesson in con-
servation. Recreation leaders and teach-
ers will recognize many other possibilities.

and salvage material avail-
able in the University com-
munity.

Shower shoes were made
from the ends of orange crates donated by the
dormitory kitchens, scrap wood from the mechani-
cal engineering departments, and scrap canvas
donated by awning companies; ash trays were
made from covers and bottoms of coffee cans pro-
vided by the cafeteria; cribbage boards, from dis-
carded bowling pins; shoe cleaners, from three-
for-a-dime brushes and scrap sheeps’ wool obtained
from a clothing manufacturer; pipe cases, from
leather and canvas samples and scraps donated by
leather and awning companies; key cases, from
scrap leather and canvas samples; picture folders,
from scrap cardboard; writing boards, from pieces-
of masonite found in University junk piles.

We discovered that these articles could be use%
by men in the service:

Shower Slippers. Worn while taking showers or‘
board ship or in barracks, these slippers provide and
effective precautionary measure against athlete’
foot. In the field, especially in warm climates, th
slippers provide a cool relief from shoes.

   
   
   
   
 
  
   
  

Ash Tray. In barracks and on board ship all quar
ters must be kept very neat and with a small as

tray handy, a fellow can enjoy a smoke witho
danger of scattering the ashes.

Cribbage Boards. Cribbage is one of the m
popular games in the service since it can be playe
by two or more, and the compact cribbage ca
with cards in the center section can be conven-i
ently carried in pockets or packs.

Shoe Cleaners. These w
designed to remove mud fro
boots and then give shoes
quick polish for inspection.

Picture Folders. A sma
folder was designed to ho]
four to six snapshots. It can
be set up when one is sta-
tioned and conveniently car-

MILITARY SERVICE CRAFTS 683

ried while e11 route. This was
a very popular item.

Writing Board. This board
has a pouch for stationery and
stamps on the back, can be
easily transported, and has
proved to be the most popular
‘ article in the entire group.

Shoe Polisher. This was de-
signed especially for men
aboard ship to give their shoes
a final “quickie” shine before
inspection.

Pipe Case. This was de-
signed with slots to fit on a
man’s belt so pipe-smokers
could carry their pipes without
making the forbidden pocket
bulges.

Whistle Lanyards. These were
requested by men in the Navy.
There was some disagreement on whether these
were furnished and also how generally they were
needed, so this item was discarded and in its place
identification cords were substituted.

Identification Cords. Each man in the Navy is
required to wear three identification tags and in
the Army, two, and it was discovered that the
cords some of the men were wearing would burn.
After some experimentation, a cord was found
that would char but not disintegrate, was washable
and somewhat perspiration resistant.

Key Case. All men interviewed needed this
item since they all had to carry keys of one sort
or another.

The articles were displayed for and discussed
with service men in the Army and Navy and their
suggestions noted. As a result, several improve—
ments were made in the items already set up and
several items added. Among the additions were a
sewing kit which could be made from scrap pieces
of canvas; a tie and belt rack made out of a wire
coat hanger, to fit on the inside of a locker; a
cribbage case.of heavy scrap leather; a money belt
made of scrap canvas; and a
“buddy box,” a small 4” x6”
box which contained materials
and directions for playing
twenty-eight different games.
All the men were very enthusi-
astic about the items.

With this preliminary sur-

Any person or group interested in this
project may write for a booklet which
gives full size patterns for all the items
described, work sheets with direc-
tions, and possible sources of materi-
als. Address: Mary H. De LappI |3|
Cottman Memorial Union, University
of Minnesota. MinneapolisI Minnesota.

 

Military service crafts in the making—
trom scrap material to tinished product

vey as a basis, the Conan Union Board of Gov-
ernors voted to undertake the project, providing
space for equipment and shop and setting up a-
fund for tools, materials, and supervision.

University storehouses and junk heaps were
canvassed for old equipment — work benches,
tables, lockers, files, cupboards, etc.

An industrial education major was engaged to
supervise the project and student committees were
set up, one to organize and take charge of produc-
tion, another to publicize and promote the project
among the students. The head supervisor trained

student supervisors who in turn assisted student
workers as they came in.

Organization

The entire project is supervised by the commu-
nity governing agency. Under this group comes
the recreation leadership and then the Military
Service Craft supervisor who
directs the work of the produc—
tion and promotion supervisors.

The production staff is di-
vided into six sections—at—
tendants, instructors, trainer of
instructors, instruction sheet
maker, equipment manager, and

684 MILITARY SERVICE CRAFTS

secretary. The attendants are responsible for giv-
ing out all materials, keeping records, collecting
money, taking attendance, greeting newcomers,
etc. An attendants chairman coordinates the work
of this group and sets up a time schedule for them.

\Vorking with the promotion supervisor is a
publications committee, responsible for magazine
and newspaper publicity; a materials committee
for the collection of salvage; a tools committee to
get donations of usable tools; a committee in
charge of displays; and a contact committee which
arranges for speakers to explain the Military Ser-
vice Crafts to other organizations.

Since one of the purposes of the University
project is to utilize as many students as possible,
the committees listed here are set up in considera-
ble detail. In a small group the head supervisor
may do all the work outlined above or he may have
one or two assistants.

Tools and Supplies

Many people are glad to donate tools for a
military crafts project and this will help to mini-
mize the eacpense. The following list is adequate

and can be purchased for $28—the major cost of ‘

our entire project:

3" vise 26” rip saw

1" chisel 26" crosscut saw

3" C clamps (2) button snap set
pyro pencil 6" cutting pliers
claw hammer tile card
ball pin hammer l” varnish brush
homemade wooden artists’ brushes (2)

mallets (3) needlepoint awls (2)

7" smooth plane
hand drill and bits razor blade holder
(5/64" and %”) 18-24” steel square
large scissors rulers
10" tin snips pencils
1'0” half round files (2) homemade wooden forms
6 tube revolving leather for ash trays
punch needles

Other supplies purchased include glue, varnish,
No. 3 tacks, thread, double-pointed tacks, sand-
paper 00.1, and 94” nails.

can opener

Records Kept

Two sets of cards were kept on file—one with
the name and address of the serviceman to whom
an article was sent, the name of the article, and
date on which it was sent. The second card file
had names of students who made articles, articles
made, and dates of work. This provided a record
of the extent of participation among the student
body for a more complete report of the project.

   
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
    
     
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
   

Included in each package was a slip asking the-
servicenian to record the date he received the
article and his reactions to it. In many cases, in-
stead of returning the slip, the soldier or sail
wrote a letter expressing his thanks. On-e n.
stationed in a warm South American country wrot
that he had dozens of chances to sell his sho
shoes the first day he received them.

A Few Cautions

All factors in your program must be correct
timed. A premature publicity campaign will bri
in people to meet instructors who are not ad'e
quately trained. Attendants and instructors, h -‘
ing spent six or eight hours learning processes . - .
procedures, become disinterested if no one co
in to be helped. Displays of materials, tools, a
finished articles should be ready for the instruct
training period, as well as for outside public'
Some publicity makes getting donations of
terials much easier, and other publicity brings i
participants. All of these angles are interde
pendent.

Such a project once established has considera '
publicity value and alert newspapers will be anxi
for material. Display boards in strategic locati ‘-
are effective. These might show the finished pr
ucts, materials that go to make up articles, pictu
and letters from the boys at camp who have
ceived articles, and so forth. Personal contact 1
proved one of the most effective ways of arousi
interest.

Some may ask, “Why should we make t -
objects when many of them can be purchased
the Five and Dime ?”

There are many answers to such a quest'
First, handmade articles mean more to the .
because the person who sent it took time and 1 "
thought to the task. Second, civilians hat?!r
chance to do a little for the boys at war. Thir
teaches conservation and the use of salvage
terial. And fourth, even with supervision and
of tools figured in the expenses, the articles
made for less than store prices.

Through the courtesy of the Physical Fi .
and Recreation Program of the Minnesota 0 "
Civilian Defense, the Association has secured
mission to reproduce directions for three c
projects for servicemen—a Buddy Box, a P' _
Pac, and the “Home Town News.” Announcei I
regarding the availability of bulletins descri'
these will be made in a later issue of RECREATIO -

l

Reclaiming Our Wasted Powers

of the first \Vorld

War, Dr. Richard
Cabot of Harvard wrote
a book entitled What
M an Live By. He said
that there are four essen-
tial functions by which
men live, They are these:
work, play, love, and
worship. Let us take these four functions of life
and see whether we are wasting them.

First, work. I think you will agree that work is
essential to life. Human energies turn in on them-
selves destructiver if they have nothing to work
on. Deprived of work, people exhaust themselves
like caged animals beating against the bars. To
find one’s work is to find a place in the world. It
gives man courage. It is an anodyne to grief. It is
a link with other comrades.

Despite the awful tragedy of this war there are
millions of persons in this year of 1942 getting a
thrill out of life which they did not get during the
depression. They have something to do. Many
women of my acquaintance remained in the city
this summer, filled with the zest of these wartime
activities. But these emergency activities will not
last forever. Then will come the test of our work-
ing powers.

Some years ago a leading doctor and a leading
lawyer were returning on the same train from a
vacation. They fell into conversation. Both ad-
mitted that they were trying to postpone the day
of getting back into their routines. Both men found
satisfaction in their work when once they were in
it, but they found it hard to start in again. I think
I understand their feeling. I am frank to say that
the first sermon after my summer vacation is
always the hardest one for me each year. Perhaps
my experience is not yours. But we do know that
after the last World War multitudes of men found
it difficult to settle down into their routine tasks
of civil life, Will that happen
again? To get back into the
harness requires something of b
the grace of God, something of
the spirit of Him who said:
“Take my 'yoke upon you and

IN 1914, just on the eve

By DR. RALPH W. SOCKMAN

Pastor. Christ Church
New York City '

"I will restore to you the years
that the locust hath eaten."
Book of Joel, Chapter 2. Verse 25.

These extracts. which are being used

y permission of Dr. Sockman. have

been taken from an address broad-
cast by him over WEAF and the Red

Network on Sunday. October l8. I942.

learn of me for I am
meek and lowly of heart.”

Then, too, it takes the
grace of God to endure
the drudgery common to
most tasks after we get
back into the harness.
Tchaikovsky, the com-
poser, wrote that for long
stretches of time he could
produce nothing which he valued. Yet he went to
his desk each day and forced himself to sit there,
even though no inspiration came. Then suddenly
and unexpectedly the musical impulses did come.
Yet it was that loyalty to his job during the un-
productive days which made possible his creative
hours. Such drudgery, however, demands the
spirit expressed by St. Paul, “Be ye steadfast, un-
movable, always abounding in the work of the
Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labor is
not vain in the Lord.”

Moreover, even when we do hold ourselves to
our work, it requires the grace of God to keep us
going to the end of our productive years. It is
hard to say when our creative work does stop.
We think of Immanuel Kant, the philosopher, who
wrote his monumental Metaphysics of Ethics at
74, of Goethe, the poet, writing his Faust at 80, of
John Wesley who, when past 80, was still preach-
ing up and down England saying with a smile,
“It’s time to live if I grow old.” Who can say
when our productive powers are exhausted? Yet
our modern society has developed a cruel paradox.
With our improved medical science we have
lengthened man’s productive years. But with our
improved machines we have shortened his period
of employability. The deadline of industrial retire-
ment is being ever lowered.

What are we to do with our working powers
after we have passed the age of commercial em-
ployability? Many radio letters come to me from
persons who are now on the shelf, and unable to
help support the household
wherein they live. But through
the lines of many of those let-
ters breathes a spirit of love
which reveals that the writers
are rendering a service beyond

685

From

686 RECLAIMING OUR lVASTED POWERS

measure. To grow old grace-
fully, to bring the mellow-
ness of ripened wisdom into
the midst of growing nieces
and nephews and grandchil-
dren, to be a comrade who
makes cheery the mornings
before the active members of
the household go forth to
their work and makes home a haven to which they
gladly return from their day’s toil, to keep one’s
mind alert, one’s temper sweet, one’s sympathies
broad, one’s interests young—that is immeasurably
creative work which many a noble soul keeps on
doing through years of retirement and infirmity.
But it takes the grace of God to keep doing it.

Have we the grace to get back into the harness
of tame tasks when the excitement of this war is
over, to endure the drudgery of routine, to keep
on being creative when the world of business re-
tires us? If so, then God “will restore the years
that the locust hath eaten."

Let us turn now to the second function by which
we live—Play. Children take their play seriously.
So must we. W'hen the Master set that child in
the midst of the grown-ups and bade them become
child-like, I believe He was referring in part to the
child’s spirit of play. One of the mainsprings in
our original equipment is the impulse to play.

This matter of play is important because it re-
veals character. If you wish to know the quality
of a person, watch him in his off-hours when he
is free to do what he likes to do. Just about the
best way to measure a man’s goodness is to note
what he calls having a good time. And no person
is saved in Christ’s sense of the word until his
tastes are so converted that he
likes the wholesome things which
Christ liked. A person whose play
life is not redeemed is not yet
saved.

Furthermore, play re-
creates us as well as re-
veals us. That is, it should
re-create us. But, alas, so
much of what we call rec-
reation does not re-
create us. That is
where the waste
comes in. And that
is the point we shall
have to watch after
the war. Those who

   
   
 
 
 
 

"Love is to life what leaves are to a tree.
Just as leaves breathe in from the air and
sunshine the elements essential to the lite
of a tree. so love draws from our environ-
ment that which enables us to live as human
beings. And 'ust as a locust, by stripping
a tree of its leaves depletes its very lite.
so anything which strips love from our lives
destroys the very heart of our being."

- homes—such is the kind of play that re-cr

"When the Master set that child
in the midst of the grown-ups and
bade them become child-like, I

believe He was referring in part
to the child's spirit of play."

are old enough to remember
will recall that the last war
was followed by what has
been called the “Jazz Age.”
We speeded life up to such
a tempo during the war that
we could not slow down into
simple wholesome pleasures
when the excitement was
over. So we developed dance marathons, million-
dollar prize fights, jitterbug contests and a lot of
other bizarre, neurotic and errotic forms of enter-
tainment too numerous and nauseating to mention.

One of our columnists described our postwar
tempo thus: “Whatever was slow wanted to be
fast, whatever was poor wanted to be rich, what-
ever was small wanted to be large, whatever was.
wanted to be more so.” Yes, we developed a sort
of addition complex by which we thought we could
solve our ills by getting more of what we had.
Thus our nerves grew ragged and our morals ran
loose. Then came a depression. And now another
war. .

The question is, will we repeat the wasteful
procedure after this present war, or will we learn
how to play so that our diversions and recreation
will truly re-create our exhausted powers? To
find our pleasure in simple things, to get our sat-
isfaction from the noncompetitive sources open to
us all, to revel in noble music, to rediscover t‘l
joys of good conversation, good friendships, go

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  

our wasted powers, And if we can return to °
then God “will restore the years that the loc
hath eaten.”

"Allpursu'
that justi

themselves
play. Play is
service of
mates, or r
it is the ult'
itself. . . .
useful is t
which is '
fied by so
thing else.
asks no justi
tion and. ne
noneJ'
Joseph Lee.

Public Housing Brings a New Era in Recreation

UT OF THE war has
0 come another great

challenge to public
recreation—the demand for
service to giant housing com-
munities. Now comes this opportunity for public
recreation to serve newly created communities
numbering thousands of people whose welfare is
vital to the war effort.

The government’s entry into the field of hous-
ing in an attempt to improve national health and
welfare by improving housing conditions and dis-
solving slum areas was begun many years ago.
Before the war a few slum clearance projects had
been started, but planning in this new govern-
mental field was destined to expand greatly when
the present war broke out on a world—wide scale.

Housing developments were originally designed
for slum clearance or
the prevention of slums,
but since all national ef-

By WILLIAM FREDERICKSON, JR.

Senior Recreation Director
Department of Playground and Recreation
Los AngelesI California

A lot of fun was in store for these young doorstep
sitters at Ramona Gardens Proiect when a recreation
director was assigned to the housing development

fort is now geared to the
single purpose of winning
the war, housing has largely
changed its purpose to pro—
vide living quarters for war
workers. Housing units range from dormitories to
individual homes.

The public recreation program has been pri-
marily a community project. Relatively few
regional and district playgrounds serve more than
one community. In wartime we are more and
more forced to look at our programs from a com-
munity viewpoint. Gasoline rationing, tire priori-
ties, dimouts, the closing of certain military areas,
civilian defense, and other war measures have
focused our problems in single neighborhoods or
small groups of communities. It is obvious, of
course, that recreation must conform to this trend.

But what of the new
communities created by
housing developments?

 

683 PUBLIC HOUSING. BRINGS A NEW ERA 1N RECREATION

\\'herever land is available near industrial develop-
ments, sometimes many miles from the nearest
city or town, housing facilities have been con-
structed for war workers. In many of these de-
velopments it has been necessary to include a com-
munity recreation building with its meeting rooms,
gymnasiums, play fields, and children’s play lots,
as well as medical buildings, grocery stores. drug
stores, barber shops, cleaners’ establishments,
notion stores, theaters, and other facilities. Public
housing, then, has been called upon to accommo-
date such services in these communities.

What is there that is new about this community,
and why does it affect public recreation? Because
of his demonstrated ability in community organi—
zation, the recreation leader is given responsibility
for organizing a new community. His experience
enables him to go out and help to build a vital
community life, only one of the aspects of which
was considered recreation in the past. It may be-
come his work to organize a medical plan among

the residents, or to find facili-
ties for the nursery schools,
libraries or civilian defense
groups, or for music, drama,
crafts or welfare.

A Cooperative Plan
in Action

One might ask if a recrea-
tion leader has any right to be
concerned about nursery schools or medical plans.
In answering that question it might be well to
analyze brieHy what has happened in the Depart-
ment of Playground and Recreation of the city of
Los Angeles in its relation to the Los Angeles
City Housing Authority.

About two years ago the Playground and Rec-
reation Department was asked to look over the
recreation facilities at the first housing project
completed within the city to determine if they were
adequate to meet the needs of the residents. The
first visit showed that specialists in community
recreation had not been consulted, and it was obvi-
ous that mahy changes would have to be made to
conduct a good program with safety.

This first contact was the beginning of a co—
Operative arrangement between the Los Angeles
Housing Authority and the Department of Play-
ground and Recreation which has continued dur-
ing the past two years, and will continue in the
future. It was obvious that there was need for a
planning group made up of representatives of the

"Let the recreation worker see the chal-
lenge presented in communities by the
presence of public housing developments.
and let him meet the challenge with intel-
ligence. vision, and sincerity. Then in the
world of tomorrow recreation will have
an assured place in the broader aspects
of community life peace will bring."

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

various public agencies, playgrounds, schools, and
group work agencies.

All plans are based on the belief that a housing
development should be treated as any normal com-
munity and not as a group of people who must
receive special attention. PeOple living immedi-
ately outside the housing area, yet in the same gen-
eral neighborhood, should be treated in the same
way as those in the development and facilities
within the project must be made available to every-
one in the neighborhood. Accordingly our organi-
zations agreed to serve their usual purpose —
schools to provide facilities where necessary and
school playgrounds and group work agencies to
serve where the need arose. Playground directors
were to be assigned where the need of facilities,
and budget, allowed.

An experiment was begun at the Ramona Gar-
dens Project where the Playground and Recrea-
tion Department assigned a director to conduct a
community recreation program. The experiment
was undertaken to determine
what the place of a municipal
recreation department might
be in meeting the needs in a
housing project. \V ho should
pay the bill ? Who should build
the facilities? What kind of a
program should be conducted ?
What should be its relation-
ship to other playgrounds an
agencies? These were some of the questions to
answered.

The recreation director’s first job, after inspecti
the facilities and considering the ages and cult
and financial background of the tenants, was to o
ganize a neighborhood planning council. All c
munity problems were to be the concern of this co
cil, and one of the first was recreation. The achie
ment of this council in its cooperative planning vs.
the two agencies involved was indicated in an
tendance record of around 1,000 persons a day t
ing the summer. This was accomplished with
limited facilities--—only one club room and xv
small outdoor play spaces throughout the pi;

The next step in the cooperative relati
between the Playground and Recreation De
ment and the Housing Authority was the plan
of recreation facilities for all future developn '
so that the errors of the first project would not
repeated. All plans were made available to
Recreation Department’s draftsmen and engine
who made suggestions for the installation of recr

PUBLIC HOUSING BRINGS A NEW ERA IN RECREATION 689

ation facilities. Not only were the suggestions ac-
cepted, but the playground equipment was fabri-
cated at the shops of the Department and installed
by the Department's construction employees. For
these services the Housing Authority, being a
municipal department, reimburses the Playground
and Recreation Department for labor and materi-
als. Thus, play equipment is constructed in con-
formity with the high standards of the Recreation
Department at a cost much less than would be
possible if it had been constructed by the Housing
Authority or on contract with private firms.

The third step in the deve10ping of a program
was another experiment. Within two blocks of the
great Consolidated Steel Company’s shipbuilding
plant in the Los Angeles Harbor area Wilmington
Hall, a dormitory housing project, was con-
structed. Three thousand men will reside here.
Recreation facilities in this development include
two large play flelds and a large combination
gymnasium, recreation hall and theater, including
a lounge, library, writing room, music room, game
room, and restaurant.

At the request of the Housing Authority, a
recreation director employed by the Department
of Playground and Recreation was assigned to or-

ganize the recreation program at this great center.
This director’s salary, in
the experimental stage, is

Annex at Wilmington Hall, a dormitory housing
project where 3,000 war workers will live

to be paid by the Housing Authority, and in the
new project he is classified as an assistant mana-
ger. Not only will his duties include what was
once considered strictly recreation but, as well, all
of the civilian defense, community organization,
health plans, welfare problems, and similar features.

As housing developments are completed, re-
quests come in for trained recreation leaders. Be—
cause of their training, and their experience, these
men and women are sought as community leaders.

Problems to Be Faced

What are some of the problems that public rec-
reation departments will face in the future in ful—
filling this new requirement, and how will some of
these problems be answered?

The first question is that of finance. Who will
pay the bill for these necessary services? Should
it be the Housing Authority acting for the gov-
ernment? Or the municipality? Should the cost
be added to rents collected from tenants? Or
taken from funds paid to the city in lieu of taxes
which would have been paid on the property if it
were privately owned? Or should a new govern-
mental service be set up to finance these needs?
It may even be possible that Lanham Act funds or
other federal funds might be available for the work
during the war. Obviously
the answer will not be the

 

n00 PUBLIC HOUSING BRINGS A NEW ERA IN RECREATION

  
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
  

Authority may lend financial aid or leadership to
the program.

It might be well here to consider certain under
lying principles involving the relationship betwe
public housing and public recreation. First, \
might analyze the reasons for the government’
entry into the field of housing.

same in every community, and many combinations
of the several means of finance may be followed.

But, remember! This is a recreation job, and
the selection of program and personnel should fall
on the shoulders of the public recreation depart-
ment.

An immediate problem is that of personnel, be-
cause of the wartime drain on manpower caused -
by the war. Standards of recreation leadership
must be maintained within these projects. It may
be possible for recreation departments to assign
part-time workers to assist in the training of vol-
unteer leaders from among tenant or neighbor-
hood groups. In some instances where the biggest
job at the present time is recreation for war work-
ers, the directors may be transferred from small
community playgrounds to the greater service in
housing projects for war workers if their places
are filled by part-time or newly recruited recrea-
tion directors.

An experiment is being tried in the Los
Angeles area where men who were previ-
ously known as night clerks, and who are
employed from 3:00 to II :00 P. M., are
now being trained as “Night Aides.” They

Principles for Interagency Relationship.

Because of the slum conditions, and the inabili
of some localities to provide decent housing f
all their citizens, the Federal government uncle
took to provide housing facilities in many local-iti
throughout the United States. This provision
auxiliary to private enterprise, with the excepti ~
of projects constructed at points far from citi-e
and towns.

Where government housing facilities are bei
provided in or near existing incorporated citi
the following principles are suggested f o
interagency relationship:

I. The major premise is that to the i
corporated city belongs the responsibili
for certain governmental functions, incluc.
ing fire, police, public improvements an

BUY

UNITED
STATES

WAR

BONDS
AND

STAMPS

are to be selected from persons with some
background in recreation, social work,
group work, or other athletic or recrea-
tion skills. These persons will be trained by the
playground staff in leadership skills, community
organization, handling volunteer personnel, care of
equipment, aims and purposes of housing and of
recreation, group organization, making of "com-
munity surveys, first aid, rhythmics, dramatics,
arts and crafts, singing and song leadership, adult
dances and mixers, and similar activities. Such
training will be done while they are in the service
of the housing authority.

Sinize the early stage of recreation planning for
public housing in the Los Angeles area, which
succeeded so well because of the cooperation be-
tween housing and recreation officials, the Federal
public housing people have liberalized their con-
cept of the responsibility of a housing authority.
While the Housing Authority wants to assume a
full share of responsibility for any services, it be-
lieves that its first task is to provide well-planned,
decent, safe, and sanitary housing facilities.

The Authority is also charged with seeing that
essential services are supplied to the resident fami-
lies, but it makes no attempt to set itself up as a
nursery school, recreation, or case work agency.
If, however, local resources are inadequate, the

 

buildings, public recreation and parks, a
all of the other functions carried
by tax-supported city departments. E -
though new communities are built within or 11
cities by government housing agencies, this princ
ple of continuance and extension of service by ta
supported bo_dies should be maintained.

2. The construction of new housing facilit'
has brought many problems to cities. These
clude the need for greater budgets to support
panded public services, and of a staff to oper
such services. Because the new problems are c :
ated by housing authorities and are beyond .
scope of previous city planning, the Federal g
ernment should assist local communities in h
ing the, situation.

      
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
   
 

3. Therefore, it is in order, when our local
gets are insufficient to finance the construct'
facilities or to carry on regular.city fiincfions,
the Housing Authority to‘assist in any way
sible. This assistance might involve paying
rectly for services which a. city could not ot
wise furnish, or for building facilities.

4. This direct assistance should be of a t
porary nature, until the city is able to assume
normal functions in the'new housing area.
period may be from one to ten years, or e

( C ontinued' on. page 704)

The National Folk Festival—I943

INCE CONDITIONS in
S wartime Washington

have made it inadvis—
able to hold the National
Folk Festival in Washing—
ton this year, Philadelphia
has been decided upon as
the city where the Festival
will celebrate its tenth an-
niversary, May 5-8.

The Association has
always urged the holding
of community festivals in
the sections from which the groups come. Each
year a number of cities and communities have co-
operated, since there always has been need for in-

expensive leisure-time activities in which many
could take part.

More leaders than ever are planning festivals
this year. Individuals and groups. who know the
folk songs, music and dances can make a great
contribution to the general morale of communities
if they will take the lead in community festivals
now. The folk festival is a logical. development in
practically every community since it gives many
people a chance to participate, and many more the

opportunity for evenings of pleasant diversion to
relieve the tension which everyone feels today.

Through-community folk festivals it is possible
to help break down barriers between old and new
'Americans and bring about understanding and
stronger national unity through interchange of
deep-seated folk traditions which refiect racial
characteristics and national temperament.

It is suggested by the National Folk Festival
Association that not only one community festival
but a series of them be held in local communities in
cooperation with army camp centers, local recrea-
tion departments and similar groups. Many men
of military age are lost to performing groups, but
there are still many left to carry on with traditions
of folk music, dancing and singing, and there are
enough older and younger people who know the
songs and dances to substitute for those who are
away. This is a time when many of the traditional
expressions which have gone into the making of
our country might pass from the scene and a
special effort should be made to preserve them.

Since conditions in wartime Washington, which
has been host to the National Folk Festival
for five years, have made it inadvisable to
hold the event there this year. Philadelphia
has been decided upon as the city where the . 0f the War Seem to have
Festival will celebrate its tenth anniversary
May 5-8. The National Folk Festival Associa-
tion is particularly anxious to have all past par-
ticipants return, and will gladly welcome new
groups to help complete the picture of the folk
life of our country. For further information
write Miss Sarah Gertrude Knott, Weightman
Building, |524 Chestnut StreetI Philadelphia.

Festivals in Other
Countries

The chaotic conditions

made many countries more
conscious of the value of
traditional heritages, and
leaders in these nations
realize that the interchange
of folk songs, music, and
dances ,among racial and
national groups can play
an important part now as
well as in postwar days in helping develop na-
tional 'and world understanding, They see the
value of encouraging the use of folk expressions

for the morale of the men in service as well as for
civilian morale.

Russia, since the beginning of the Soviet regime.
has had small community festivals in various sec-
tions of the sixteen republics, with a final annual
festival in Moscow. Russian authorities believe
that interchange of characteristic traditional heri-
tages among the varied races and nationalities .
which make up the Soviet Union has done more
than anything else to bring about that unity of all
the peoples which is so evident in the great fight
Russia is making today. The Association, through
the Russian Embassy, has recently received a re-

quest from the Moscow Conservatory for complete
data on the National Folk Festival.

England's Experience. While the war is going
on, England is taking advantage of the fact that a
number of exiled governments are in the British
Isles. Scholars are recording the folk songs and
music used by the armies because they hope that
after the war the folk songs, music and dances of
the European countries will be a key to under-
standing and better relations.

Mexico has a recreational—educational program
in which folk traditions play an important part.

Festivals are held in various provinces, with final
fetes in Mexico City.

Panama under the Ofiice of Education is de-
veloping a program of cultural relations in which
the folk songs, music, and dances of the country

( C ontimwd on page 706)
691

Cap'n Bill's Column

Looking Backward—and Ahead

we never heard of insu-

lating, but we banked the
house with seaweed or pine
needles to keep out the win-
ter cold. \\'e didn’t read
about spinach and vitamins
but we used to get spring
greens. Dandelions had a bitter taste but they and
cowslips, milkweed. and pigweed satisfied a cer—
tain craving. Eating corn meal and molasses wasn’t
any hardship either, if that’s what went into Injun
puddin". Heating a soapstone, wrapping it in
newspaper, and taking it to bed was a welcome
custom when the mercury hovered below zero.
Perhaps we would linger around the tire, pop corn,
and make corn balls, or maybe eat the meat out of
pumpkin seeds or crack shagbark hickories we had
gathered in the fall.

The Community Recreation Commission was
not even a dream. In fact, play was sort of a sin.
“'e weren’t censored for having the potato bin full
of several barrels of apples in the cellar. “7 e aren’t
now, if you follow priorities closely. In fact, we

would have been censored if we didn’t fill the
larder!

I am glad that
I had country
living. It always
has come in
handy. If this
war drives us
back to country
living we will
profit by it.

Ix mouse .\.\'1) nuccv days

Tthood Pile

\Ve had neigh-
bors in those
days, and neigh-
bors judged one
another by the
wood pile. If
one had reached
the distinction
of being a country squire, or
could pay rent for a church

692

By WILLIAM GOULD VINAL
Massachusetts State College

We may tind it protitable to revert
to horse and buggy clays and country.
living tor our postwar philosophy

 

Dr.'and Mrs. Vinal are shown here i be thankaI for in this W01“!
practicing what Cap'n Bill preaches!

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
 

pew, the chances are that l -
had cut his own wood th
winter before. In fact, th
wood was stove length an
neatly piled in the woo
shed. There were others wh
were driven to the woo
by a bleak nor’easter. Th :-
brought in a sizeable piece on their shoulder and
sawed it up then and there. I do not recall that we
used the word shiftless, and certainly not delin-
quency. The winter weather was a cold fact tha
we all understood. \Ve met it in our own way,
but we met it.

This fall I brought my grandmother’s air-tigh
stove back to Amherst. It sure can eat wood! It’
mid-January and I’m on my third cord. I re . u
how I used to bring in armfuls of wood and pile
it in the wood box. This was as regular as feed-
ing the stock, winding the clock, and putting .
chunk of apple in the stove before going to bed.
This ancestral stove has already done yeoman ser
vice. It is going to save me about 33 per cent 0
fuel oil. It is one of the best pieces of apparatu
for physical fitness that I ever saw. It causes 1
to cut wood an
bring it bac
every time I 19'
to the old far
S a wi 11 g a
splitting wo
is way ahead r
d u 111 b - b e l
s w i n g i n 3
Sometimes
think that ca '
thenics is u
when we ca
think of an
thing else. E\ .
to see smo
curling out
the chimney i
a satisfacti
There’s a lot I

and high up on the list is th

LOOKING BACKWARD—AND AHEAD 693

air—tight stove and the
woodpile.

March Meetin’

Then came March Meet-
in’! March was the best tunity
time as it was betwixt
“swampin” and “plowin.”
As soon as mornin’ chores were done, voters
would straggle over to the town hall at the geo-
graphical center, Some went by shank’s mare and
others by horse and democrat. Everyone enjoyed
fair play whether he came from a farmer’s kitchen
or a sea captain’s mansion. We had never heard
of submarginal land, but when it came to discus-
sion of whether certain taxes should be abated a
rugged individual arose and hit the nub of the ques-
tion when he said: “The land is so poor that if a
crow crossed it he would have to carry a lunch.”
The tax was abated. No one could tell a Yankee
farmer how to vote and only a neighbor could per-
suade him.

I can recall most vividly the men with whiskers,
their T.D. pipes, the sawdust on the Hoor, and
their milling around with slips of paper to vote for
selectmen, pound driver, and bounties on wood-
chucks. Some of this sounds inconsequential. When
it’s all over, perhaps sugar and tire rationing will
look like mere piffle. The less we have to do with
sugar and tires the healthier we will be.

So what? All of this is so simple that anyone
who will can see a common denominator. I have
been talking about plain, ordinary Americans.
They have never claimed to be super-humans.
They have never enforced their views by storm
troopers. Their strength is in their capacity to
unite and in the determination to accept no substi—
tute for freedom. It is believed that common sense
still exists in American hearts. If it doesn’t we
are wasting a lot of gunpowder and time.

Saw the Wood and Pass the Hickory Sticks

These things are not school subjects. They have
to be lived. With this conviction which, after all,
has been instilled in me since birth, I recently sug—
gested an old-time Scituate, Massachusetts, swamp-
in’ bee. This was not exactly a revival, as the
Scituate farmer was a rugged individual when it
came to his wood lot, line fences, and woodpile.
He would get together for a barn raising or husk—
ing bee, and the women folks often had quilting
bees. A swampin’ bee was easy to understand,
though, because there was fuel shortage. There is

"Democracy begins in our home towns. That
is where we learn.to iron out the differences
between the various groups that go into the
making of AmericaI and that is where they
learn to work together. That is where civil
rights and human rights and equal.oppor-
are hard realities instead of pious
phrases." — From Democracy in Action.

a feeling that when no
wood smoke rises from the
chimneys of Scituate the

people have gone too far
from Mother Earth.

It wasn’t surprising,
then, that on Saturday,
January 2nd, there was a
generous response by the Boy Scouts and Girl
Scouts. They came with their axes, crosscuts,
mauls and wedges from all directions. Most of
them walked, as High School people did forty
years ago. They were greeted by the Massachu—
setts State College students, all majors in recrea—
tional leadership training, who were to give the
instruction in axemanship. The swamp maples had
been waiting for this day for fifty years. Bob
Leavitt, a seventy—nine year old neighbor who had
“wooded” it all his life, caught the spirit of the
occasion and brought over his grindstone to teach
the youngsters how to keep their axes sharp.

It was a gay assembly of young people with their
bright colored scarfs and radiant faces. Bob Lea—
vitt allowed that he “never saw so many wimmen
folks woodin’ it before.” They felled red maples
and yelled “timber” with gusto. They hauled the
wood “and passed the hickory sticks” by hand-
sleds, by wheelbarrows, and by the armful to
frames by the roadside. Each frame held a pile
2’x2’x2’ (fireplace size), which they sold for
$I.OO, and customers carried their own. They
worked like beavers and earned $15.25 which was
donated to the Women’s Town Canteen to help
purchase a new mobile kitchen unit.

It might be noted that passing the hickory stick
had a different connotation than it did when the
author went to District Number 3 in the same
neighborhood. When I overheard a youngster say,
“Gee, mother, I wish I had an axe,” I knew that
the day was already a success. The only casualities
were one frozen big toe and the misadventures of
a Girl Scout who got into a pond hole “above her
middle,” which is the way the word went around.
The assembly learned what it costs in work, sweat,
and organization, and incidentally they became
grateful for the fuel we burn.

At noon, the Norwell (formerly South Scituate)
Town Canteen rolled up with a hot luncheon.
\Vhat a meal they planned! The standby was
North River beef stew, which reminded one of the
hearty days when a Scituate man was a man and
could eat three square’s a day! For dessert there
was a town meetin’ cake, made from a I 50-year—

694 LOOKING BxlCKlVARD—AND AHEAD

old recipe, which was really bread with currants
and topped with a nice brown varnish of molasses
and milk. Now mark you that this wasn't a super-
cream puff with whipped cream, pecans and choco-
late sauce. Furthermore, these youngsters did not
have to take a pill to get up an appetite. They ate
the food with gusto. Here indeed was evidence
that we can “muscle up" and return to simple food
with less sugar and like it.

In the afternoon we had nature walks, and in
the evening the college students, dressed in straw
hats and overalls. directed a barn dance which was
sponsored by the Norwell Grange. To be sure,
some villagers insisted on dressing for a soirée.
However, the day was a grand success whether
measured in terms of fun, or education, or com-
munity spirit. It might have been spoilt by rain,
a slip of the axe, too much salt in the stew, by poor
leadership, by uncooperative boys and girls, or a
hundred other things. But it wasn’t. Incidentally
it made the front page of the Boston Sunday
Globe. The colored movie of the day’s program
is a gay story.

A swampin’ bee is only one way to demonstrate
what live, healthy youngsters can do, or how a
community can integrate its manpower for a
common good. A swampin’ bee is as American as
country living or as the old-time town meetin’!

The N orwell Plan

This brings up that old debate for the philoso-
phers, namely, is a swampin’ bee education or rec—
reation? One does not. need to analyze the Nor-
well field day in much detail to discover physical
fitness, health, safety education, conservation, do—
mestic science, history, journalism, public speak-
ing, arithmetic, forestry, biology, community ser-
vice, social dancing. adventure, and a leisure-time
hobby.

The teachers at the Norwell High School be-
lieve that they cannot do business as usual. That’s
true for all high schools. The community has
needs. Every community has needs. Youth also
has needs. Norwell leaders have pooled these
needs and plan to give their youth as wide an ex-
perience as possible in what
was once the liberal educa-
tion of every farmer boy.
They believe that the first
step is to make a survey of
the facts. Already there are
projects in this emergency
period which are appearing

"The young people of America are prepar-
ing themselves as best they can for the
responsibilities of the new generation. . . .
they need self-confidence and a friendly
spirit as well as knowledge, and these are to
be gained first of all by living a life of
friendly cooperation and service in their own
communities."—David Cushman Coyle.

on the horizon as needful. They are just as essen-
tial as wood for fuel, or algebra and Latin for
culture. It is predicted that by next summer squads
of youthful helpers will be needed at poultry plants,
in the dairy, in the garden, at child care centers, in
camps, and on playgrounds. Strange as it may
seem to the older generation, this crop of boys and
girls will probably need to be taught how to milk
a cow or how to harness a horse and drive hint to
the far end of the corn field and turn around. In
my boyhood we never thought that such ordinary
events were skills.

' Right now the Norwell High School student
body is a Forest Fire Fighters Corps. Whenever
they see an outdoor lire they report to the town
fire warden in much the same way that airplane
spotters send word to the central station. It is
signiticant that there were more forest fires last
spring, and the cause was often “unexplainable.”
It is evident that such community activities will
require volunteer leaders.

The Norwell Grange, wishing to serve the com-
munity in a vital way, has offered to man as many
high school squads in as many of these projects as
possible. At this point it may not be amiss to say
that the State College students declared that
swampin’ calls for motor-skills, neuro—muscular
coordination, big-muscle drives, cooperation, and
all the other basic qualities that are just now re-
ceiving renewed emphasis. They always hasten to
add that it is “heaps of fun.” They hope to take
part again as the “Norwell Plan” unfolds. The
Norwell High School is believed to be one of the
first—perhaps the first—to go into such a practical
type of war emergency training and community
service. Youth has a wonderful inner urge. They
want to do something. They want to be patriotic.
They want to work. Furthermore this extracur-
ricular activity is an escape from dry rot and totali—
tarianism. High school boys and girls consider it
education in Utopia or recreation based pretty near
the grass roots.

High School Victory Corps

There are a half million boys and girls in our
28,000 high schools. The
U. S. Oliice of Education
Wartime Commission re-
cently made a study. The
National Policy Committee,
representing this Commis-
sion, the War Department,

(Continued on page 701)

THE Recreation
Department of
Austin, Texas, is
using a game kit made by Beverly
5. Sheffield. The kit is comprised
of fifty games which can all be
fitted into one box.

A Game Kit

“11‘ IS PROBABLE,”
states the Chief of the
Forest Service in his
1942 report, “that cur-
tailment of travel this year will cause a drop in the
recent impressive increase in public utilization of
national forest recreational facilities. Recreational
areas were used by about 18,000,000 persons in
1941, an increase of almost 2,000,000 over 1940.
Camp and picnic areas account for half of the visits
recorded in 1941, while visits to winter sports
areas reached one and a half million.”

Recreation and the
National Forests

 

IN THE November,
1942, issue of Social
Action, published
monthly by the Coun-
cil for Social Action of the Congregational Chris-
tian Churches, 289 Fourth Avenue, New York
City, Dorothea Hyle turns the spotlight on the
American library and presents it as an essential
service. After reading this interesting document,
with its information regarding the way in which
libraries operate, the services they perform and
their historical background, one cannot but feel
that here is one of America’s most precious pos—
sessions.

Americans Want
to Read

LAST YEAR the state
legislature of Minne—
sota enacted a law en-
abling cities and towns
to acquire additional play and recreation areas
through tax delinquency procedure. Ernest W.
Johnson, Superintendent of Playgrounds in St.

New Areas Through
Tax Delinquency

 

Paul, writes that his department has taken ad-
vantage of the law and has acquired thirteen ad-
ditional areas selected by Mr. Johnson and ap-
proved for further development of the recreation
system. Mr. Johnson writes:

“We do not have immediate use for these areas
because of lack of capital development budgets, but
they were selected for areas where, in our judg-
ment, they will be needed in the future. We expect
to hold these areas until such time as our budget
can provide for their development and make them

usable for the community.”

THE Department of
Parks of New York
City announces that
Paerdegat Park in
Brooklyn has been opened to the public. Slightly
over three and a half acres in extent and occupying
an entire block, it provides active and passive rec—
reation for all age groups. An existing grove of
18” caliper oak trees has been preserved in a fence-
enclosed grass plot at the north end of the park.
Centrally located are a brick comfort station and
wading pool with a variety of fence-protected play
apparatus units. Bordering these facilities is an
adjacent court games area including three shuflle-
board and two handball courts. The south end of
the park contains two bituminous surfaced softball
diamonds with hooded backstops. The existing con-
crete boundary walks have been widened and bor-
dered with a double row of pin oaks in concrete
block paved panels.

A New Park and Play-
ground for Brooklyn

In 1934 there were I 19 playgrounds in the New
York City park system, 66 of which have been re-'

6953

696 WORLD AT PLAY

   

*
DIAMOND

Has Gone To War

The Army. Navy and Air Corps
is using the material that used
to go into the famous Diamond
pitching horseshoe line. When
the war is won. it'll be back to
Business As Usual.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE (O.

4b|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

constructed. There are now 487 playgrounds in
the system.

Our Merchant Seamen—The Summer-Fall,
1942, issue of American Seaman, A Review, is
designed “to acquaint Americans with the men of
the Merchant Marine.” In addition to a number
of Special articles, there are pictures showing typi-
cal services rendered to merchant seamen by scores
of institutions in the United States and Canada.
A copy of this interesting issue is available at 50
cents from the American Seamen’s Friend Society,
1;5 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

Playgrounds Rally for National Defense—
On July zlst the playgrounds at Andover,
Massachusetts, held an aluminum parade. The
children made quantities of little red, white,
and blue posters and attached them to stilt
sticks. They read: “Playgrounds Instead of
Dugouts,” “All for Uncle Sam,” “Pots and
Pans Today—Planes Tomorrow,” and “All for
Our Defense.” The children then collected
aluminum pots and pans and borrowed all the
flags available. Almost eight hundred children

       
   
      
      

  
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
    
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
     
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  

took part in the parade, each carrying from
seven to ten pieces of aluminum; some of the
bgys had dozens of pieces trailing behind them
on strings. Several children brought in a hun-
dred pieces. A truck was secured to carry th

surplus.

Their Choice Was Leisure !—One thousa
workers in a department store in New York Cit,
asked whether they would prefer a five-day we
of forty hours or a six-day week and higher wag
voted overwhelmingly in favor of the shorter hour.

Beach Areas Saved—VVhen the summe
bathing season opens, devotees of seasho
swimming will find a new and better pla'
ground in the twelve mile stretch from El Se-
gundo to Castle Rock, California. “The lon
light to save the beach areas of the metropoli-
tan district from ruin and destruction appea I
to have been won,” says an editorial in a local
paper. The work will entail a great deal 0
restoration and filling in. When it is complete
parking spaces, playgrounds, and promenad
will parallel the restored beaches, which w'
average 500 feet in width. The cost is esti
mated at six million dollars which will be ap
portioned between LosAngeles city and count
and the seaside municipalities involved.

Youth, Incorporated, Creates a Home—In
quest of a “beer1_ess beer garden,” a group of you ;
folks in Ferndale, Michigan, took matters in the'
own hands and converted a former home to the
plans. A small house, but very physically fit, we '
invaded by Youth, Incorporated. They capitalize
on the numerous niceties of the home and built it
a program which gained deserved popularity.

The cooperative Board of Education wrote tl -
checks for the rent. The rear of the lot was turn
into a hard-surfaced play area replete with ligl
for night use. Today the center has its own he -
and is financed jointly by the Board of Educati
and the Detroit Community Fund.

Historic Sites Are Pictured on Map—To
stimulate an interest in the historical places of th!r
region the Palisades Interstate Park Commission
has prepared an historical map of the Hudson-
Valley covering the region from New York City
to \Vest Point. It includes high spots of military
activity during the period of the American Revolu-

LVORLD AT PLAY 697

tion and has for its title, “The Hudson River—
Gateway to Freedom.” Starting with revolutionary
Fort Lee the map and accompanying information
tell of events which took place more than I 50 years
ago. The Park Commissioner will be glad to sup-
ply the maps without cost to any individual inter-
ested in securing one.

A Park for Ionia—A gift of eleven acres of
land near the city for use as a park has been made
to Ionia, Michigan, by Mrs. F. W. Green, wife of
former Governor Green. The land includes a mill
pond, mill site, and mill race. The gift carries no
conditions other than that the property be kept for
recreational purposes. The City Commission plans
to develop the area gradually, and one of the items
in mind is the conversion of the mill pond into a

skating rink.

Combining Health and Recreation—A new
type of neighborhood organization was dedicated
recently in Houston, Texas. It is a privately or-
ganized health and recreation center, a $380,000
structure. The purpose of this center, called Rip-
ley House, is to develop neighborhood coopera-
tion in an experimental plan for health and family
living, and provision has been made for a health
center in the building as well as recreational and
educational facilities. The Ripley Foundation has
contributed endowment funds for maintenance,
and general expenses will be met by the Houston

Community Fund.

Mobilizing Memories for an Emergency—
Camp Fire'Girls in Los Angeles have compiled
neat little memory recreation kits with which to
bolster the spirits of those marooned during air
raids. Should a Camp Fire Girl find herself in the
company of unhappy individuals during a blackout
or air raid, she will simply rise to the occasion,
pull out her best stories and games, and turn the
panic into a party. Two children’s librarians are
teaching the girls some ever-fascinating stories and
coaching them in the art of telling them well.

Family Picnics in Santa Barbara —— Santa
Barbara, California, encourages the holding of
family picnics in the city parks. The program
originated three years ago, having been organized
cooperatively by the city Recreation Department,
the city schools, and the Public Library, as well as
other local organizations. Last year for the first
time particular attention has been given to inviting
the service men to attend. Starting at 6:15 in

  

CANADIAN
NATURE

We believe that Recre—
ation Magazine has
thousands of readers
who would be inter-
ested in the fascinating
nature stories, wonder-
ful photographs, draw-
ings and color plates

Ihat appear in each

     
   
   
   
   
   
   
        

issue of CANADIAN
NATURE—the maga-
zine which captures the
hearts of everyone in-
terested in nature and
the outdoors. Parents, educators, librarians and na-
ture lovers, praise and recommend it. An ideal gift
and a magazine which is needed in every home,

school and library.

CANADIAN NATURE is issued in January, March,
May, September and November. Volume 5 for 1943
will contain 200 pages, 90 articles, 35 color plates,
160 photographs, 220 figure drawings. An Annual
Index is bound in the November issue. The magn-
zine enjoys wide United States school use. The
articles are suitable to the whole of North America.

There are subscribers in 43 States.

Directors of Boys’ Clubs, Play Directors, Camp
1' Counselors, and others will find practical help in this

unique magazine. Send $1.25 for one year.

NATURE
ACTIVITIES

By J. A. Partridge and
D. E. Farwell. Published
by Canadian Nature
Magazlne. 25 cents. 32
pages of inspiration for
teachers of natural scl-
ence. An indispensable
source of ideas, includ-
ing over 200 illustra-
tlons, suggesting activi-
ties and projects in na-
ture. Arranged in five
chapters according to
seasons. Full of practi-
cal ideas and sugges-
tions to help you plan
an interesting course of
study. Send 25 cents for

a copy.

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
       
    

       
       
   
   
   
         
       
 

.I- I. [u nor-l. .hrnn‘hnul "no 51'!" 5

   

.
' v. “I IH‘I'I ._’ In 4’.. iti‘rJ-i 3; “lug

 

\uunt M'Imms

     
     
 

Money-Back Guarantee

Send coupon, with only $1.25 for one year’s subscrip-
tion. If you are not completely satisfied, after receiv-
ing the first issue, notify us within 10 days and your
money will be promptly refunded.

— —- MAIL TODAY — — — — — — — —

CANADIAN NATURE MAGAZINE
I77 Jarvis Street. Toronto, Canada

I] Enclosed is $1.25 for one year’s subscription to
CANADIAN NATURE—5 issues—0n your money-
back guarantee in RECREATION Magazine"

[:1 Enclosed is 25 cents for one copy of NATURE
ACTIVITIES.

 
   
     
    
     
     
   
      
    
 

Name .................................................................................... ..
Addrrss..   .. .

 
 

. . - a a . g n g . a u n n - o - I o . u o a n n a o o o c o n n . o e a . I u o u a n . u n o u a n o o u I u u o u o u u - u u o u u - I u u o c u n u a u u u o u u u u o I o o o o o o o-

698 ON THE CALENDAR

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

.' GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.

r'~:-»._rv 513, {mr’wwlt u’JHlO

 

the evening with a concert by the WPA orchestra
and followed by entertainment and dancing, this
activity has done much to solve the problem of
family outings with a minimum of travel. One
evening it was estimated that 800 persons partici-

pated, including 200 soldiers who were the guests
of family groups.

Junior League Supports Community Projects
——The Junior League of Reading, Pennsylvania,
for years has been active in aiding the public rec-—
reation program. One means of raising funds for
its activities has been a series of plays. In the pro-

gram of “Arsenic and Old Lace,” one of the plays

given for the fund, appears the following state-
nlent:

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

Your enthusiastic patronage of our plays has cre-
ated a surplus in our Treasury. You have insured
the support of our two community projects—the
Pioneer Neighborhood Council and the Recreation
Prigram in nine local institutions. You have also
enabled us to present a Mobile Canteen to the Berks
County Chapter of the American Red Cross.

\Ve thank you!

The Junior League of Reading

- each: A Bit 0’ Irish Fun, A Party for St. Pat, and

On the Calendar . . .

No program for March is complete without a
St. Patrick’s Day party on the seventeenth. The l
wealth of Irish songs, stories, and poetry provides
much source material for entertainment.

The history and legends of St. Patrick’s Day
are well told in “Ireland’s Patron Saint,” an article
by Walter Herron in the March, 1942, issue of
RECREATION. '

Suggestions for a St. Patrick’s Day Program, a
twenty-live cent bulletin published by the National
Recreation Association, contains plans for a party,
a playlet, and a brief bibliography of plays, parties,
music, poems, and dances. Also available from the
Association are three party bulletins at five cents

   
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

Top 0’ the M arm'n’.

Victory Gardens in Dearborn, Michigan —
“The first year of Victory Gardens in the Fordson,
Michigan, public schools,” states Paul H. Jones,
director of the program, “has contributed consid-
erably to the war effort, and all gardens cultivated
were officially registered as Victory Gardens with
the state director.”

The area available was divided into 464 standard
sized gardens 20’ by 58’ and 21 crops were grown
—an increase of two over 1941. The new crops
included were planned to enrich the diet and intro-
duce students to crops which serve this purpose.
The average income per garden was $20.36, the
maximum income reported for an individual gar-
den being $55.45. The total income for the 1942

season was $9,447.04.

During the spring of 1942 crops were planted in
the experimental gardens for the purpose of pro-
viding a food supply which could be used in the
homemaking classes of the several schools to gi
training in the preservation of food. Unirrigated
land was prepared and planted by the senior hor—
ticultural classes to provide their food which coul
be used in school cafeterias.

Wartime Recreation in Honolulu — Th
Mayor’s Entertainment Committee of the City
of Honolulu has published an attractive little
blue guide to athletic and recreational faciliti
for Army and Navy personnel in the city. In its-
eight pages soldiers and sailors stationed in the
Territory of Hawaii will find directions for use
of recreational fields and facilities; location of

GARDEN FOR VICTORY IN 1943 .’ 699

baseball, football and softball courts, tennis
courts, bowling centers, golf courses, skating
rinks, swimming pools and beaches. Complete
information is also given on hikes, bus rides
and places of interest, as well as interesting
data about the city and territory.

A Long Range Recreation Plan for Kearny,
New Jersey—The Board of Recreation Com—
missioners of Kearny, New Jersey, has issued a
report of the Long Range Recreation Plan for the
Town of Kearny prepared for the Board by Weaver
\V. Pangburn and F. Ellwood Allen of the N a-
tional Recreation Association. Copies of this in—
teresting report are available at $1.00 each from
the Board of Recreation Commissioners, 12 Beach
Street, Kearny.

Pageants—If you’re hunting for a Spring or
Maytime pageant, A. S. Barnes and Company of
New York will have something to offer in their
Pageants with a Purpose Series. Also included in
this group are swimming and outdoor pageants,
productions for special days and weeks, and a
collection of little pageants for children.

"Party Capers”——N ow that gas rationing has
ushered in a back-to-the-home movement, material
for home entertainment and for those informal oc-
casions when neighbors and friends drop in is in
great demand. The National Association Service
of Toledo, Ohio, offers practical aid in Party
C apers, a collection of games and stunts, each
described on a card with an illustration.

Nature Therapy at Butler Hospital

( C outinucd from page 680)

Thus, each time when “self” departs there comes
a little healing to a wounded mind. For many
patients this has resulted in an enduring interest,
a satisfactory philosophy of life, a feeling of secur-
ity, as well as an “inner peace existing at the heart
of endless agitation.”

 Garden for Victory in I943!

(Continued from page 661)

During the season inspections will be made, not
for the purpose of awarding prizes, but to check on
the gardens and to give help if needed. At the end
of the season a Victory Corps banner will be

awardCd to so: YOUR SCHOOL rnoonm

$115353: PAGEANTS

 

  

attained "WM P H

- C IH' 059
thelr Obi Th hl T edP'E h
. . oroug y es: . ac
Jectlve and one was seleaed be- mfg“

,1 cause of ease of per-v
“ lose gar' formance. dramatic AND
' effect and educational AMATEUR

dens merlt “hm PRODUCTION

the award. Priced from so: to $2.

The chil- Destriplive circular on
, request.
dre“ Sgar‘ A. s. BARNES AND COMPANY

(l 611 S “fill 67 West 44th Street, New York

be limited
in size, and special attention will be given to their

planting lists so that they will be able to do a
better job of gardening. Our slogan: “Join the
Victory Garden Corps— have a garden and save
all you raise.”

Nora: The frontispiece in this issue of RECREATION
shows the four Butler brothers of Grand Forks who were
the first to enter the Greater Grand Forks Garden for
Victory contest. They are entered in the Junior class for

bOys and girls up to and including 16 years of age. Prizes
totaling $340 in War Bonds and Stamps will be divided

among the winners.

“Fun for Threesomes”

PI TY the poor party leaders—too many girls
and not enough boys! Or too many boys
and not enough girls. What to do?

0 You’ll find the answers in Parties Plus—Fun
for Threesomes, the third and last in Ethel

Bowers’ series on party fun.

Nolhing’s impossible in the line of three-way
fun with the help of this booklet! Folk games
and .musical games, country dances and old-
time square sets too!

0 All the games and activities are adapted to
groups of two men and a girl, or two girls
and a man. More than forty different activi-

ties are included.

Send 50 cents to the NRA today for your
copy of Fun for Threesomes. The booklet

is a “must” for party leaders these days.

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION
315 FOURTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY

7(1) YOUR VICTORY GARDEN

UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
School of Applied Social Sciences

IMOUHCCS

WARTIME PROGRAM
I943 - I944

Curriculum adapted to war and post-war services
Generic Program and Specializations in

Social Case Work
Social Group Work
Community Organization Work

Social Research
Public Welfare Administration

Qualified students accepted for one or more trimesters.
Students may apply for entrance at any trimester.

Fellowships available in various fields of
specialization for both beginning and
advanced students.

Advanced students are eligible to apply for

American Red Cross Fellowships in the

approved specializations of medical social
work and psychiatric social work.

For further information apply
OFFICE OF THE DEAN

 

Yo'ur Victory Garden

(Continued from page 660)

“Starting from Scratch,” February 1943. Most of
these articles will be collected and reprinted in
The American Home service book, All About Gar-
dens, now in preparation, which will be available
sometime in March 1943.

Month by month, through the planting and
growing season, Better Homes and Gardens pub-
lishes articles telling you the things you need to
know to get the most from your food garden. The
February, 1943, issue, for example, contains an
article entitled “Your Vegetable Garden” which
will give you much practical information on plant-
ing various vegetables. Single copies may be
bought at newsstands for fifteen cents.

The publishers of Better Homes and Gardens
have also produced “Gardens of Victory,” a new
sound film made under the direction of the Office
of Civilian Defense. It tells the story of the real
and vital need for vegetable gardens in every
American community this spring.

This film, which is the first and at present the
only officially approved 0CD film on Victory Gar-

  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
    
      
    
 
   
   
    
     
  
 

dens, is being made available to the public at cost.
Send check or money order for $15 for a 16-min.
print to  S. Barlass, Better Homes and Gardens,
Des Moines, Iowa.

Preserving Your Products

\Vhen you have garnered your crops and am!
ready for the final triumphant step—that of pre
serving your vegetables—the government ag'
stands ready to help you. Order from the Super
intendent of Documents at Washington the follow
ing bulletins available at five cents each:

Home Canning of Fruits, Vegetables and Meats,
Farmers’ Bulletin No. I762

Home Storage of Vegetables, Farmers’ Bullet'
No. 879

Home Drying of Fruits and Vegetables, Farmers’
Bulletin No. 984

A Final Word'

You may feel sure of having plenty of help i
you decide to start a Victory Garden. The Ag '
cultural Extension Service of your state universit
will supply you with information which is appl-i
ble in your state, telling the varieties of vegetab
and small fruits to plant, how far apart the see
should be planted, the kind of fertilizer neede
how insects and diseases may be controlled, a
how the products can be processed. And, as s
gested, under the new plan being developed, yo
local Defense Council will be able to give y

assistance.

Send for These . . .

A brief mimeographed bibliography on garde
ing, with a section on Victory Gardens, may
secured on request from the National Recreati
Association. Available, too, from the Associa'
is the booklet, Gardening—Seized, Comm '
H owe—50 cents.

A Last Minute Announcement

Through a special arrangement with the a
lisher, the National Recreation Association
been able to secure for distribution copies of Y
Victory Garden, a practical and comprehens'
guide by E. L. D. Seymour which will be inval
able to anyone planning a home garden. Copies
are available from the Association at I 5 cents each.

OUR TIMES PARTY 701

Our Times Party

(Continued from page.o73)

After supper the civilians meet in the defense
classes they signed up for when they hrst arrived
Each group prepares an impromptu skit depicting
their work. For instance, the first aid class can all
plunge into one poor victim, smothering him in
bandages while the instructor shouts directions
from the book. .

A member of the motor corps could be driving
along, only to be arrested for speeding at thirty—
six miles an hour. Then a tire defiates without
warning. (Four persons on hands and knees form
the wheels and tires.) And as the linal blow, he
runs out of gas.

You needn’t limit these skits to defense classes.
They may portray the trials and tribulations of a
mother attempting to engineer two energetic
youngsters, knit a sweater for the Red Cross, cook
dinner, and vacuum clean all at the same time.

The evening is finished off with a variation of
the Curious Traveler stunt, labeled here as the
Cautious Motorist. The leader asks the group to
stand facing him and follow the directions as he

recites them :

The Cautious Motorist got into his car—
He looked to the north,

He looked to the south,

Then to the east,

And to the west.

Then he turned again and faced the north,
Then he faced west,

Then he faced south,

Then he turned to the cast,

Where he saw an OPA inspector—

So he got out of his car and walked home!

Looking Backward—and Ahead

( C ontin'ned from page 694)

and the Department of Commerce, worked out the
High School Victory Corps program. This pro-
gram has eight obectives. The High School Victory
C orps Air Service Program is at present the most
alluring, but it is evident that all the boys who
intend to go into aviation cannot make the grade.

The Land Service Division may be described as
pre-military training. Many high schools are rush-
ing into pre-induction courses in military drill. I
wonder how many of these boys are third class
scouts and have merit badges in camping, swim-
ming, forestry, trailing, gardening, and pioneering?
Scout training proved worth while in Guadalcanal.

   

Place your order WWW
for your Llllllilllll illlllililll BATS

0 We suggest that you place your
Louisville Slugger order as early as pos-
sible with your dealer in order to avoid
any possible transportation difficulties
that may come up later.

H 3: B offers a complete line of Baseball
and Softball bats in a wide variety of
styles. weights and lengths priced to
meet your needs. Get in touch with your
dealer now!

HILLERICH & BRADSBY CO.

Incorporated

LOUISVILLE. KY.

.1

 

 

LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BATS

The S ea—S ervice Division is designed to prepare
for enlistment in the Navy or Merchant Marine.
This means formal high school courses in mathe-
matics and science. Sea Scouts, on the other hand,
require practical skills in such things as rowing,
swimming, life saving, and traveling by stars.
Whether we like it or not, our boys are going to
be cast into the sea. If unprepared, they will
drown. There is a fine but important distinction in
“what is education?” involved right here.

The eighth and last objective is community ser—
vice. We in the recreation movement are pri-
marily interested in this almost, shall I say, “hid-
den” objective. Whether it is due to the lack of
glamour and color, with no uniform or bugle, I do
not know, but it has rallied the fewest recruits.
Yet it seems to me to possess the greatest possi—
bilities from the vieWpoint of recreation and the
American way of life. In passing it should be said
that the “N orwell Plan” does not call for the or-
ganization of a High School Victory Corps. The
town already has its Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts
with volunteer leaders. What it does need is more

702 SOMEIVHERE IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

A Salute to the Coach!

  

‘ and Organized Play
THE AMERICAN WAY

We salute our Coaches and
Physical Directors who con-
tribute so much towards the
strength of our nation. The
AMERICAN \VAY of organ-
ized play insures strong, virile
bodies for our youth and our
vigorous, competitive Sports——
NOT Goose Stepping, develop
the physical fitness of our boys
and girls.

 

CHI-V BASKETBALL
'31. No. 1.50.724: 2.19.!“

VOIT supports this Ameri-
can Way of organized play by
giving players a ball for all
purposes and conditions, which
can be used indoors as well as
outdoors. VOIT Pneumatic
Molded Balls have no seams,
joints or dead spots — give
longer service—are more eco-
nomical, and their perfect
sphericity and balance creates
greater conlidence in handling.

VOIT Victory Athletic

Equipment is still available in
many items. Specify VOIT for
longer service and greater
economy, plus many added
advantages for your players.

9

 

90" Motion
JV‘-V VOLLEY BALI.
rd. "0. 350.124: 2.18:.”

 

   
 

VOIT Cllz-V

0233i  Write [or Illustrated price
 llu R-3 showing complete
III-alt“. line of available items.

' 6,17%» ATHtETtC
E N r

“hm warm

at n
I

VI I-l w is"! 1'1 ." r it!" Ta

It" ‘00-"

   

 

 

o

scouts and more leaders. The state college will
cooperate in an advisory capacity.

Volunteer Land Corps

At the present writing the O.C.D. talk in \Vash-

ington is about recruiting 500,000 youngsters for
farm work, half of them to live in camps or on

farms. This is a large undertaking and will end in
grief if not planned in great detail. Dorothy
Thompson’s experiment in Vermont has been well
described in a straightforward analysis. Adjust-
ments had to be made by both the high school
student and by the farmers. The most vulnerable
spot in the plan was the leader. The failure of the
leader in any community meant the crumbling of
the whole program. Leadership training must
start immediately if we are to make the hurdle.

Conclusion

In closing it probably is not necessary to tell
recreation executives that if out of our present en-
deavor our citizens of the future get such a worth-
while postwar philosophy as country living, and
perhaps a land production hobby, the program will
have been a good investment, Incidentally it may
be prevocational training for recreational leader-
ship. Morale for the peace to follow is as essential
as for the war days immediately ahead.

Somewhere in Southern California

( Continued from page 657)

dated day room quarters, they were encouraged to
draw up a practical accounting of needs for its
renovations. These were submitted to the local
Red Cross Chapter and taken over by a Women’s
Club in Long Beach. With donated materials.
soldier carpenters, electricians, and plumbers con-
structed a new 30x60 foot room—on their own
time. The women donated a complete set of fur—
nishings from davenports to drapes to ash trays.
and applied their touch to the interior decorating.
Added sources yielded a combination radio—phono-
graph, piano, games, book shelves and magazine
racks. As a further step the women initiated a
rotating library scheme to assure a continual flow
of current books, periodicals, and records for the
room. The whole project grew from idea to reality
in one short month, culminating in a formal New
Year’s dedication in the presence of Long Beach
civilian and military notables and a roomfulhof
very proud soldiers.

A host of expert civilian hobbyists are available
to make occasional rounds of Battery day rooms

 

SOMEWHERE IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 703

to share their hobbies with small groups of inter—

ested soldiers. W'e call these “Share Your Hobby ' ' ' '
Evenings.” Demonstrations, exhibits, movies and Junlor Arts and ACtIVItIeS
discussion method are all pointed toward stimulat- for the Elementary
ing soldiers to actively participate by sharing their teacher
own experiences in that hobby. and
Subject matter for these hobby evenings is  ON P
based upon stated leisure-time interests garnered for the pupils
from soldiers’ service records. Many civilian or- .
ganizations are cooperating. Physical education
departments of schools provide sport talks, movies, THE MOST COMPLETE
and demonstrations by pistol, archery, reel and EDUCATIONAL PLAN
rod, and tumbling teams. A Defense Council’s EVER PUBLISHED
Recreation Division offers a “Hobby Lobby” by .
motion picture, photography and collecting en- TEACHER:
thusiasts who exhibit in the annual Long Beach you owe it to
Hobby Show. Musicians bring favorite recordings yourself and to
to organize informal “Bach to Boogie Woogie” Your pupils to
concerts with humorous and informative program know how the”

two monthly
publications
can help you

notes in the Deems Taylor manner. Members of a
local Adventurers’ Club bring eye witness accounts
of such exciting personal experiences as “Return-

0
ing from the Front,” “Lost in a Boat,” “Captured
by Savages.” The University of California Ex— send 25c for sample copies to

tension Division divulges behind—the-scenes pro- Iumor Arts and Acavmes
duction secrets of favorite broadcasts, Walt Dis— 74° Rm“ Sl'e°*- Chicagm l"-
ney cartoons, and new scientific inventions.

“Rumoresques” New inn for the Home Front!
Another program, about to be launched, deals

,with current events. During early basic training
days an . excellent series of weekly orientation
lectures is designed to acquaint soldiers with the
background of the war, its history to date, and
information on our allies and enemies. Regular
discussion groups keep the-'men posted on current
stages of the conflict and the seriousness of the job
ahead. While follow-up provisions are not possi-

ble in busy field unit schedules, they are being P  P E 

organized during free time. Resources include the
new seriesof seven war information films circu~ 4 Ebsmfllsof?:rgse1-9Ur:lu£§

lated through the Special Service Division in

Washington, These documentary films supplement Like 5nding gal“ fol Recreational Lead“

. - ' _ . , ers, or anyone who likes to have “peppy”
the material covered 1n the Army orientation parties, These Widely diversified games
lecture course and carrysuch titles as “Prelude to ‘ and 25mm “5" only props.that can. be
VV ,, “D. .d d C ' ,, '  “Th B prowded at a moment’s notice and Wlth-

3-13. 1‘” e an onquer: an __ . ' e attle 0f out expense! Illustrated with actual
Russ1a.”_ Arrangements have been made with the Ph°t°grilplisl Tested and ‘ hilarious”
Adult Education Divisions of schools and libraries approve y age growl-s 
to .provide speakers and discussion leaders :on  “in "
favorite soldier “rumoresques,” our political policy -- NN  
in. North Africa, allied strategy and postwar plans, - 20l7 Gle'nwood - - Toledo. Ohio
life in invaded countries, and economic controls 5"}!

All: your department store, or order direct today
today and tomorrow.

 

704 PUBLIC HOUSING BRINGS A NEW ERA IN RECREATION

A Manual of Municipal
and County Parks

THROUGH a special arrangement with the

publisher of A Manual of Municipal and
County Parks, issued in 1928 in two volumes
at $20.00, plans have been made whereby the
remaining unbound copies of the Manual will

be bound in one volume and sold at $4.50.

This offers an unusual opportunity to secure
this manual not only because it is invaluable

from an historical point of view, but because
it contains much information as valid and
practical at the present time as it was when
the report was originally published.

441‘

Order your copy now from the

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

 

Public Housing Brings a New Era in
Recreation
(Continued from page 690)

more, but in principle all functions recognized as
municipal functions and tax-supported should be
carried on by local tax-supported bodies. It may
be that individual projects may continue to bear or
share the costs where special services are desired.
Certainly all support should not be withdrawn
until some method is devised wherein housing
residents can pay their share of local taxes.

5. In an emergency period assistance might be
derived, as mentioned previously, from direct as-
sessments to tenants, or payment in lieu of taxes.
Or, in the instance of personnel furnished, ser-
vices may be charged to the budget of housing
management.

6. Each housing manager should see that all
normal community functions are taken care of
within or near his community and, until local pub-
lic agencies are able to take over in this respect, he

"should lind ways and means of making such ser-
vices available.

7. Because of the necessary working relation-
ship between the housing manager and the recrea-
tion leader, all problems of administration should
be channelled through the ofiice of the public
housing manager. So far as functional supervision
is concerned, this could be direct from the recrea-
tion department supervisor to the recreation di-
rector on the project. Thus, matters of techniques,
skills, special problems, or play supplies, might be
handled directly by the recreation director and his
recreation supervisor. In cases of conflict, all mat-
ters should be handled through the housing proj-
ect manager.

In a large city administrative matters would be
passed from the supervisor to the superintendent
of recreation, and he in turn would transmit such
matters to the housing authority manager, who
would then refer it to the managers of his housing
project.

The relationship between housing and recrea-
tion agencies is of such an experimental nature
that hard and fast rules of procedure would only
hamper the results of the experiment. Both agen-
cies must be willing to make adaptations so that
the experiment may produce real and lasting
results. "

By following these suggested principles of rela-
tionship between a Federal housing authority and
a local recreation department, no principles of de—
mocracy, as they apply to the American city, will
be violated, and cities will maintain their autonomy
in the carrying out of their usual functions.

Recognition is now being given by the United
States Housing Authority to the maintenance of
facilities and equipment. Where, in the begin-
ning, meager funds were available for this pur-
pose, now the adequate is being approached, and
caretakers’, janitors’, and other custodial employ-
ees’ services are being made available for this most
important function, without which recreation can
never be well carried on.

One wonders immediately what kind of a pro-
gram will fit the needs of residents of housing de-
velopments and the adjoining neighborhoods. Such
recreation programs may be different, but it seems
apparent that the pattern will be similar to that
conducted by public recreation leaders. There will,
of course, be many necessary diversions from what
might be called a conventional pattern, and full
cognizance should be taken of the need for such
digression.

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 705

Playground Mothers in Action

(Continued from page 671)

painting scenery, taking a hand in the discipline of
refractory youngsters, leading a community sing,
or occasionally bringing over sandwiches and cof-
fee. Such close personal interest results in a
friendly warmth of cooperation.

The Playground Mothers’ Circle has been par-
ticularly fortunate in the quality and farsighted-
ness of its leadership, Mrs. Hoffman is well aware
of the need for publicizing playground activities.
With that in mind, she secured time on a local
radio station and for many seasons has conducted
a fifteen minute weekly broadcast in which the
multiple activities of the playgrounds are explained.

When war work prevented Mrs. Hoffman from
continuing the program last season, it was taken
over at her suggestion by the playground super—
visory staff who told St. Louis listeners about
handcrafts, dancing, dramatics, games, puppet
shows—all the varied features of the playground
curriculum. The children themselves took part in
the broadcasts, and during the eleven weeks of the

summer some one hundred children faced the
microphone.

The Circle last year initiated and supported play—
ground milk stations where milk was distributed
at a very nominal cost to those children who could
pay and free to those who could not.

Money for the many extras not included in the
playground budget of the Board of Education is
provided by the local playground committees,
mothers’ circles, mothers’ volleyball teams, patrons
and parent-teacher associations—either from their
treasuries or by special card parties and other
semi-social functions. The gift last summer
amounted to $1,626.04. One hundred dollars paid
for free lunches for children living in substandard
areas. Local playground directors are entrusted
with special gifts ranging from twenty to sixty
dollars, veritable “pennies from heaven” for har-
ried directors who never seem to have enough
materials to carry them through the summer no
matter how carefully they hoard supplies.

The goal of the Playground Mothers’ Circle—~a
goal which in the light of past performances they
will doubtless achieve—~has always been “an all—
year-round playground in every school yard.”
\Vith the‘ war emergency converting St. Louis into
one of the nation’s most vital defense areas, an
ever-increasing load falls upon the city’s recrea-
tional facilities. Because of the increasing number

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, January 1943

Swimming Pools Must Go to War, by Alvin B.
Murphy

Tie in with “Swim to Health” to Hit Capacity in
’43, by Martin Stern

Childhood Education, December 1942

Federal Programs for Children, by James Brunot,
Florence S. Kerr, and Bess Goodykoontz

How England Cares for Children of \Vomen \Var

Workers, by Evan Davies
London Children and a Wartime Day Nursery, by
Helen L. Beck

Journal of Health and Physical Education, January 1943

Co—Recreation on the Junior High School Level, by
C. F. Borgstrom

Human Needs in Wartime, by James E. Rogers

Recreation: A Challenge in Human Engineering, by
Shailer Upton Lawton

Journal of Physical Education, January-February 1943

Roberts Recreation Center, by Everett Chapman
While You’re Asleep, by Priscilla \Vicks. (Recrea-
tion for swing-shift workers)
The Lion, January 1943
Youth Centers Offer Solution to Home Front Prob-
lem of Serious Aspect, by Ernest A. Stewart
Parks and Recreation, January-February 1943
A Pioneer in Southwestern Garden History, by Mary
Daggett Lake

Research Quarterly, December 1942

Report and Recommendations of the National Com—
mittee on Aquatic Leadership

Safety Education, February 1943

Tough but Safe, by W. K. Streit. (Specifications for
a physical fitness course.)

Survey Midmonthly, January 1943
The Problem of Recruiting, Leonard \V. Mayo

PAMPH LETS

Armour’s Meat Manual for Summer Camps. Suggestions
for meat planning, purchasing, and preparation

Armour and Company, Chicago, Illinois

Battle Songs of Freedom, prepared under direction of
Joseph E. Maddy.

Patriotic song service adaptable for any community

Extension Service, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan. Single copies free; additional
copies, 10 cents each

Boys in War-Time by Abel J. Gregg. Problems of the
home and neighborhood, and suggested solutions

The National Council, Y.M.C.A.’s, 347 Madison
Avenue, New York City

Legislation for the Protection of Children in Wartime
compiled by the Children’s Bureau Commission on
Children in Wartime. Suggestions for child welfare
agencies

Children’s Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor,
\Vashington, D. C. r .

706 THE NATIONAL FOLK FESTIVAL—I943

Did you know that

APRIL 14th is PAN -AMERICAN DAY

It's time to start planning NOW for Pan-American Day. with its good neighbor parties. pageants. aid
programs. To help you meet this need we have available these practical. up-to-the-minuie publications:

Our Neighbors to the South! (MP. 310) . . . . . . .

A bibliography of references including dances. music, plays. pageants, fiestas, costumes, games, party

plans, and other sources.

Pan-American Carnival (MP. 312) . . . . . . . . .

programs, playgrounds, and recreation centers.

Fiesta—The South American Way . . . . . . . . . .

tainment.

Singing America. a collection of 120 folk songs from the Americas including 14 songs
from 9 Central and South American countries:

. . .Vocal Edition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .Accompaniment Book . . . . . . . . . . .

Recordings of Latin American Songs and Dances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i . . . . . . . . . .

Annotated selected list of popular and folk music. prepared under supervision of the Music Division,
Pan American Union. Descriptive notes by Gustavo Duran.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

of mothers engaged in war production industries
the need for day nurseries and year-round play-
grounds will receive the support of the Mothers’
Circles. The ever-present threat of increased juve-
nile delinquency makes an extended playground
program of the utmost importance.

To the Mothers’ Circle the playgrounds must
look for that extra support whch, in the face of new
demands upon school budgets, must be alert to any
threat to basic principles which might be sacriliced
'to the exigencies of the present crisis. _In view of
the Circle’s. understanding, efficient support we
know the intelligent loyalty of the Playground
Mothers’ Circle will be strengthened and continued.

The National Folk Festival—1943

I,I 13¢? '.

(Continued from page 691)

are being revived. Festivals are held in inany com-
munities and army camps, giving our soldiers a
better understanding of Panama through its na-

tional traditions. This movement has started since
Pearl Harbor.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
South American customs and forms of recreation which may readily be adapted for club and school

o o I o o I o o I I I I O I o I I I I o o o u o o I I u I o o .15

Complete party plan including suggestions for stunts, decorations. invitations, refreshments, and enter-

. I I I I I U I I I U o I I I O I I I I I I I I o u I I I I I

O I o I o o I o I - o o o I I I o o I I I o I I a o o o o o - 10W

3 .ll

    
 

.25

.30

3I5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

Many other countries are giving attention to
their traditional heritages, knowing that the new
world neighborliness which it is h0ped will com
out of the war will require better understandin
of the basic characteristics of. all peOples. Practi-
cally all new American groups in our country .-
afl‘iliated through international organizations wit
the people of their respective countries throughou
the world. One of the most important progra
of these international organizations is that deali ,
with folk songs, dances and music which ke
alive the sentiment for the homeland and its
tional spirit. ' '

Cultural interchanges are admittedly import
in international cultural relations. The Pan-
American Union, the Cultural Division of
State Department", the Inter-American Commi
"all have as pa.g‘.:_of their program cultural int
.fhanges among thenations,gf this hemisphere. Tl t
'war has not st0pped thesej‘plans; it has limi 
them. If it is important to.carry forward duri .
war days an international cultural relations pr r
gram in which folk traditions must play an im-
portant part, it is also logical. to promote a cul-
tural relations program within the United States.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Finding Your Way in Life

Edited by Sidney A. Weston. Association Press, 347
Madison Avenue, New York. $1.50.

N THIS VOLUME thirteen leaders in American life talk to

us informally on many problems from personality to
jobs. The contributors are: Eleanor Roosevelt, T. Otto
Nall, Goodwin Watson, Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Susan
M. Lee, Margaret Slattery, Emily Post, Lyle M. Spencer
and Robert K. Burns, Harry D. Kitson, Glenn Gardiner,
Sidney A. Weston, and Ordway Tead.

A Treasury of the World's Finest
Folk Song

Collected and arranged by Leonhard Deutsch. Howell,
Soskin, Publishers, 17 East 45th Street, New York.
$5.00.

HERE ARE FRENCH AND ENGLISH SONGS in this book,

German, Swedish, Russian, Balkan, Hungarian, Italian,
American, and many others. In all, thirty—eight nations
have contributed to this monumental and beautiful
volume, and since the editor, an expert musician and
musicologist, has included only those songs which are
musically worthy and which have kept their national
flavor, a genuine synthesis of folk culture is the result.
No small part of the value and interest of this collection
lies in the explanatory text by Claude Simpson which
conveys the rich background of the music for the layman.

Clair Bee's Basketball Library

A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Each volume,
$1.00.

FOUR VOLUMES COMPRISE THIS LIBRARY, which are part
of the Barnes Dollar Sports Library. The first, The
Science of Coaching, presents techniques based on years
of successful coaching. Drills and Fundamentals, the
second book of the series, contains a complete set of
practice, fun, and pre-game skills which will keep the
practice periods lively. Man-to-Man Defense and Attack

is the subject of the third volume. The fourth title is
Zone Defense and Attack.

Plays of Patriotism for Young

Americans

Edited by S. Emerson Golden. Dodd, Mead and Com—
pany, New York. $2.50.

N LINE WITH THE MOVEMENT in the schools to teach

democracy, Mr. Golden has collected and edited seven—
teen professionally written, non-royalty plays “with a
purpose” for the use of schools‘and amateur groups with
limited budgets. Most of them are one-act plays; a few
are longer. All deal with patriotism either from an his-
torical point of View or from the angle of present-day war

situations. Instructions for inexpensive costumes and
properties are included.

Jewelry, Gem CuHing, and Metalcraff

By William T. Baxter, M.A. Whittlesey House, Mc—
Graw—Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.75.

SINCE THE PUBLICATION in 1938 of the first edition of
this book there has been an ever—growing interest in
the hobby of.gem cutting and mounting stones in hand—
wrought jewelry. The revised edition, with its additional
information and illustrations, and the inclusion of Sixty—
one new pieces of jewelry, reflects this interest. The book
has been written primarily for the student and home
craftsman, and is ‘based on the methods used by the author
in teaching high school students.

Juvenile Delinquency and Urban Areas
By Clifford R. Shaw and Henry D. McKay. The Uni—
versity of Chicago Press, Chicago. $4.50.
HE FINDINGS OF THIS STUDY, sponsored by the Behavior
Research Fund and the Chicago Area Project, cover-
ing twenty-one cities, establishes the fact that wide vari-
ations in the extent Of delinquency are due tO differences
among local communities—differences which include not
only physical and economic dissimilarities, but divergen-
cies in the character of the social and moral values in—
herent in the tradition of the community. In the book the
authors continue their work begun in Delinquency Areas,
a geography of crime in Chicago, published in 1929 and
now out of print. Crime as a way of life, the authors
suggest, becomes established in systems of relationships
and is transmitted through gangs and other forms of de-
linquent and criminal organizations. The influence of
criminal systems upon the life of the child is exerted

largely through the small crowds, gangs, and play groups
to which he belongs.

America Sings

Stories and Songs of Our Country’s Growing. Collected

ggcééold by Carl Carmer. Alfred A. Knopf, New York,

N THIS BOOK CARL CARMER tells for the children Of

America—and tells it in terms of folk-story and folk-
song—the storypf the work this nation has done. There
are twentyLnine groupings, each devoted to a distinctive
phase of American life and history. Each group con-
tains a folk-tale told by Mr. Carmer, a folk-song out of
the same background arranged for group Singing by
Edwin John Stringham, and spirited and colorful illus-
trations of both story and song by Elizabeth Black Car—
mer. Reading this book, American children will have a
knowledge of the roots from which they have sprung
and a feeling of gratitude for their heritage.

Goals for America

A Budget of Our Needs and Resources. By Stuart Chase.
The Twentieth Century Fund, New York. ‘

THIS IS THE SECOND Of a series of six exploratory re-

ports on postwar problems being made by Stuart Chase
for The Twentieth Century Fund, which is devoting a

707

708 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD ,

large part of its resources to studying the problems of
postwar readjustment. The first volume of the When
the War Ends series, The Road IV: Arc Traveling: 1914-
1942, gives a picture of the revolutionary trends in our
social and economic life which took place between the
two world wars. In Goals for America Mr. Chase puts
into words the demands which the American people are
making for a better world after the war. Other volumes
to come will deal specifically with the problems we shall
have to face in meeting these demands. .

If all six volumes of the series are ordered at one time
the price will be $5.00. Individual copies will be avail-
able at $1.00.

Physical Fitness Through Physical
Education for the Victory Corps.

Federal Security Agency, U. S. Ofiice of Education.
Obtainable from the Government Printing Office,
\Vashington, D. C. $.25.

This pamphlet, prepared by a special committee of
which Eddie Rickenbacker is chairman, is designed to
serve as a guide to high school principals and teachers in
planning and executing wartime programs of phys:cal
education. It is Number 2 of the Victory Corps Series of
which High-School Victory Corps, which describes this
new organization for high school students, is the first. It
is intended for use in connection with all five divisions
of the Corps covering air service, land service, sea ser-
vice, production service, and community service. The in-
troductory booklet (Pamphlet Number 1) may be secured
from the Government Printing Oflice for 15 cents.

The Child Speaks—The Prevention
of Juvenile Delinquency.

By Justice Jacob Panken. Henry Holt and Com-
pany, New York. $2.50.

Here is a wise discussion of delinquency by a judge
whose experience has convinced him that the delinquent
child is the neglected child and that the destitute child—
even though his parents are not responsible for the desti—
tution from which he suffers—is also the neglected child.
Part One contains Justice Panken’s discussion of the
problems involved in juvenile delinquency and his feeling
about their solution. Part Two contains case histories,
letters from children to Justice Panken and his replies to
them, and a list of books recommended to the boys and
girls appearing in his court. Much that the author has to
say about children and their relation to the adult world
applies to the nondelinquent and uncared for child, as
well as to the delinquent.

About play Justice Panken says: “To repress the child-
ish desire to play is to interfere with functions which are
physiologically necessary. Such represssion forces upon
the child the abnormal rather than the normal. Happy
are the parents and fortunate is the child whose play is
encouraged.”

Youth Looks at science and War.

Science Service, 1719 N Street, N.W., Washington,
D. C. $.25.

Thousands of talented boys and girls, seniors in our
secondary schools, entered the essay contest sponsored by
Science Service and Science Clubs of America under the
title, “Science Talent Search.” The essays submitted by
the forty winners of trips to Washington are publish-ed
in this volume. “How Science Can Help Win the \Var"
was the subject discussed by these young scientists who

showed an amazing mastery of the subjects in which they
have done careful research.

Health in the World of Work.

By Jesse Feiring Williams, M.D., and Delbert Ober-

teuffer, Ph.D. McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.,
New York. $1.96.

u “It is important today," say the authors in their preface,
to know how to prevent the diseases peculiar to our

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
    
   
   
  

time, to select food that has been manufactured and
changed from its original state, to choose suitable recrea-
tion, and to avoid the worries that are a part of our
complex and complicated lives.” This book is designed to
help students solve some of the challenging problems of
living which confront them today. “It aims to enrich life
and to help the student attain greater happiness as he
takes  place in the industrial or agricultural life of that
nation.

Let’s Make a Study.

Bulletins ll4-A and 114-8. Community Chests andI
Councils, Inc., New York. Volumes I and II, $1.00
each, or $1.50 a set.

Years of accumulated experience in conducting com.
munity welfare, health, and recreation studies have gone
into the preparation of these two volumes. The first
volume deals with the principles which underlie the entir
fact-finding and research process. Volume II, entit -
Statistical Aids, contains data which are of practical
assistance in conducting studies in the fields of depend-
ency, behavior and social adjustment, health, and leisure
time. These two publications merit careful study by all
who are concerned with an appraisal of health and wel-

ff:er services or who contemplate making studies in these
elds.

Your Hand Tells All. A Manual of
Simplified Palmistry.

By Alice Denton Jennings. E. P. Dutton and Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

If you like to delve into the alleged secrets of 11
lines and heart lines, here is a simple manual of palmistrj
with clear, helpful illustrations.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
Ronnn‘r GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BaAUcnaa, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. Len, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Boa-rd
GUSTAVUS T. Kunv; Treasurer

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG Beans, Boston, Mass.
Mas. RonER'r \Vooos Buss, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BnAucnn, New York, N. Y.
Mas. WILLIAM Burraawonrn, Moline, Ill.
Hanav L. Comm-n, Portland, Ore.
Mas. Altman G. Cunuzn, Jacksonville, Fla.
Mas. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
Ronn- GAnar'r, Baltimore, Md.
Roan? GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
Ausrm E. Gnrm'ms, Seattle, Wash.
Mas. NonnAu HAaaown, Fitchburz, Mass.
Mas. anrncz H. Human, Tucson, Ariz.
Mas. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
Mas. Jomt D. JAuzson, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIIBY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANnon, Indianapolis, Ind.
Ronn'r LAssrrn, Charlotte, N. C.
SusAN M. Len, Boston, Mass.
Or'ro T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
VVAL'rzl A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CAM. E. Minuun, Augusta, Me.
Mas. Comm L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y. '
Mas. StouUND S'rnn, San Francisco, Calif.
Mas. JAuu W. WAoswon-rn, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
Funniest M. WAIIURG, New York, N. Y.
Jonn G. WmAnr, Concord, N. H.
S'rAnuv Wooowun, Washington, D. C.

