“ E now know that camp life, be it for two

weeks, gives to boys and girls a training in
self-reliance, utilization of skills, love of nature and
the outdoors that no other institution in American
life so adequately provides. . . . Boys and girls learn
to stand on their own, to be physically ht, to do hard
things and do them well. They know that accomplish-
ing difficult things makes for strong bodies and stal-
wart characters. They learn how to sacrifice and to
serve, how to take orders as well as give them, how
to follow as well as to lead and direct. They develop
a capacity for cooperation and the sense of comrade-
ship. They learn what a precious thing it is to belong.

“All of this would be valuable enough in peace-
time. In wartime camp life is a godsend. To know
that your children are safe from the stresses of war—
living, playing, and working in the great outdoors,
developing physical vitality, moral stamina, social co-
0peration, resourcefulness, and self-discipline —this
is a great assurance. What more can we parents ask?
What more can a nation demand?”

Paul V. M cNutt;
Federal Security Administrator

u
I OFFER these suggestions as a goal to aim at immediately:

“Every child should find itself a member of a family
housed with decency and dignity, so that it may grow up
as a member of that basic community in a happy fellowship
unspoiled by underfeeding—or overcrowding, by dirty and
drab surroundings, or by mechanical monotony of environ-
ment.

“Every child should have the opportunity of an educa-
tion till years of maturity, so planned as to allow for his
peculiar aptitudes and make possible their full develop-
ment. This education should be inspired by faith in God
and find its focus in worship.

“Every citizen should be secure in possession of such
income as will enable him to maintain a home and bring

up children in such conditions as are described in para-
graph 1 above.

“Every citizen should have . . . the satisfaction of know-

ing that his labor is directed to the well-being of the
community.

“After the war, every citizen should have sufficient
daily leisure, with two days of rest in seven, and, if an
employee, an annual holiday with pay, to enable him to

enjoy a personal full life with such interests and activities
as his tasks and talents may direct.

“Every citizen should have assured liberty in the forms

of freedom of worship, of speech, of assembly, and of as-
sociation for special purposes.

“. . . It can be summed up in a phrase: the aim of a Christian
social order is the fullest possible development of individual

personality in the widest and deepest possible fellowship.”

--Extracts from Full Development of Individual Personality,

by the ArchbishOp of Canterbury. Taken from “Pan
American World Airways System.”

The Unknown Recreation Leader

VERY MUCH of the time men and women are working quietly on playgrounds
and in recreation centers. Their names are seldom printed in the newspapers
or spoken of in the churches or at the meetings of the service clubs. Even the
children and young people who see them from day to day and are happier
because of their leadership very often take them for granted. Fathers and mothers
too are taken for granted. Often the better they are the more they are taken for

granted and not noticed until they are absent.

It is, however, often the unknown recreation leader, the unsung recreation
leader, who is responsible for a tremendous change in the groups of children com—
ing to the playground. The happy outlook on life of the play leader is caught
by the children. Deep and long to be remembered are the daily tragedies of youth,
and yet they can be met the more readily when a real sense of proportion is ob—

tained unconsciously by being with skilled, able recreation leaders.

It is very natural that recreation leaders should be taken for granted, that

there should be very few tributes to them. Their satisfaction and their pay must

be in seeing the joy of the youngsters, in watching them grow, in seeing the

struggles which result in greater strength.

Growth is painful and yet it may be kept fairly joyful and the play—

ground and the recreation center leaders have so large a part in this growth.

Some day We shall be wise enough to devise a way of expressing our debt

to the unknown recreation leaders.

W GWr/éu/r/

SEPTEMBER I943

309

Courtesy Minnesota Municipalities

RECREATION

 

More uSoda Pop" Centers

 

Courtesy Tribune Library, Minneapolis

The Bombardier

TUDENT NAMED, student planned, student dec-
S orated, student requested, and student at-
tended, The Bombardier at the Y.W.C.A. in

Des Moines, Iowa, is a popular meeting place for
young people.

The decorations in the club were made by vol—
unteers and students. The snack bar, made en-
tirely by high school students, is done in black and
silver—silver planes on a black background. Be-
hind the bar is a backdrop with the same motif
which was done by volunteers, Table covers of
dull black oilcloth also have silver plane designs.
'The lights are covered by large hatboxes painted
black, with five airplane silhouettes cut out of each,
and the menus are black with a silver design cov-
ered with X-ray film donated by local hospitals
and doctors.

Many things have been contributed to the club—
a refrigerator delivered at the “Y” by the Park
Department truck, a number of games and, in
response to a plea in the local paper, four victro-
las. Wax for the dance fioor, too, was donated.

The club is open on Mondays from 7 :30 to 9 :30
P. M., and on Fridays and Saturdays from 7 :30 to
I I :30 P.M. A ten cent cover charge is made to pay
for the music. There is an orchestra once a week
and a Hoor show at least once a month. The rest of

SEPTEMBER 1943

the time the young people
dance to a nickelodeon.

Sponsored by the Girl
Reserve Department of
the Y.W.C.A., The Bom-
bardier is governed by an
interclub council com-
posed of two representa-
tives from each high
school Reserve Club, and
a representative boy or
two from each high school.
Students from the high
schools take turns pre-
paring and serving the
sandwiches, milk, and
soft drinks.

Dancing is popular, but
badminton, ping-pong,
Wahoo and other table
games are in high favor. On the opening night,
May 21, 1943, over 300 teen agers were present,
and in spite of the hot weather they continue to come
-——not always 300 strong, but in goodly numbers.

Columbia's Teentown

Night Club

CASUAL VISITOR to Teentown in Columbia,

Missouri, any afternoon or evening of the
week will find scores of youngsters lined up at the
bar, dancing to the strains of a juke box, or play—
ing a number of different games.

But all the drinks served at this “night club’s”
'bar are of the— soda pop and milk variety, and the
latest closing hours are 12 midnight on Saturdays
and 11:00 P. M. on Sundays, while during week—
day nights festivities end at 9:00 P. M.

The Teentown Night Club and bar belongs exclu—
sively to Columbia youths—anyone over eighteen
years of age comes in the classification of adults and
is automatically barred. Just‘how the young people
of _this city are taking to the new kind of night life
is evidenced by the attendance records which have
totaled more than 150 a day, according to figures
issued by the city recreation director who stated.
that this is much higher than anyone expected.

311

312 MORE “SODA POP” CENTERS

Much national publicity was accorded Teentown
when Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt mentioned it in her
daily column, “My Day,” after a visit to Columbia.

Teen agers pay only a twenty—five cent yearly
membership fee and dues of ten cents a month to
obtain the use of the club and its facilities for
dancing, card games, Chinese checkers, checkers,
aerial darts, and table tennis.

The idea of Teentown was thought up by the
City Recreation Commission, which took over the
basement of a local church, The City Council
voted $500 for redecoration and equipment.

Today, Columbia boys and girls can spend their
after-hour recreation time together, dancing and
playing‘healthful, entertaining games at their own
night club and bar, in an experiment which proves
that this form of recreation has not only been suc-
cessful but has paid dividends many times over in
the form of happy, busy youngsters.

The "Cracker-Barrel" Forum

HE SMALL COMMUNITY of Colchester, Connecti-

cut, with its p0pulation of 2,338, is busy nowa—
days with its “Cracker—Barrel” Forum and its rec—
reation activities for young pe0p1e and adults.

The Forum attracts the attention of a great
many younger and older pe0p1e, who meet once a
month at different homes to discuss current topics
of interest particularly to the young people. An
advisory Community Council, under the auSpices
of the Hartford County Y.M,C.A., directs the
meetings. The two—year—old Council, which acts
as a clearing house on all youth problems, is com-
posed of a mill owner, a doctor, a member of the
faculty of the grammar school, and a faculty member
and the principal of Bacon Academy. The Council
has assisted in furnishing leaders for youth groups,
has helped to solve individual problems, and has
aided in financing recreation programs.

Realizing the value of wholesome amusement as
an antidote for juvenile delinquency, Bacon
Academy in Colchester instituted an Open House
program twice a week for everyone—from gram-
mar school students to defense workers who st0p
in for a game of ping-pong on their way to or from
work. Games and an electric victrola have been
furnished largely by contributions of former Bacon
Academy students who are now working. The
average attendance is fifty persons an evening.

As an outgrowth of this program, a group of
older boys and girls from Bacon Academy have
started a similar program in Westchester in a

schoolroom which is not being used at the present
time. The problem of delinquency had been bother-
ing the older pe0ple of that section of Colchester,
and they had tried in vain to furnish some recrea—
tional facilities which would appeal to a certain
group of mischievous boys.vThe youth of Bacon
Academy felt they could handle the situation, and
they have proved that they are capable of assuming
leadership and maintaining control of this group.

Another phase of the recreation program in C01-
chester is a youth leadership training group com-
posed of sixteen representatives who have shown
leadership possibilities in their youth organizations
———Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Young Judea Club,
American Legion Auxiliary, Colchester Open
House, V’Vestchester Open House, and Bacon
Academy Student Council. These young people
meet once a month to discuss problems which face
them in their work as leaders, and they go out in
special groups to near-by communities to assist in
putting on parties and entertainments which are
held in homes and churches. Named the “Arthur
Stebbins Leadership Circle,” the group has as its
motto, “Faith and friendship be our guide.”

A committee wrote the following ritual which
these youth members recite at their regular meet-
ings: “As members of the Arthur Stebbins Lead-
ership Circle, faith and friendship be our guide.
We accept and acknowledge a responsibility to
others. We are linked together to help each other,
to help our youth, to help our town and all its
worth—while life. Our help shall be given regardless
of race, creed, or color. It is the responsibility of the
members of the Arthur Stebbins Leadership Circle
to help all who need our help. We do this work
because we wish to wipe out the impure and put in
its place friendship, kindness, fair play, honesty,
and fairness, We look upon our task as an oppor-
tunity and an honor to serve our community.”

Casper’s Answer

By CARL BORDERS

President
CasPer Coordinating Council

ACED BY THE YOUTH problems which are con-
fronting many communities in wartime Ameri—

ca, CaSper, Wyoming, has taken care of them to a
large extent by the creation of a special recreation
center for youth known as the “Campus Canteen.”
Many organizations, clubs, churches, and civic
groups in the community, together with the school

RECREATION

MORE “SODA POP” CENTERS _ 313

authorities, were inter-
ested in helping the
young pe0ple. After sev-
eral meetings had been
held it was decided that
the Coordinating Coun-
cil, which had for several
years been dealing with
youth problems, was the
logical organization to
sponsor a youth program.
The reSponsibility was
willingly accepted by the
Council which made it
plain, however, that it
must have the all—out
support of 'the people of
Casper.

This support was
promptly forthcoming,
with the result that today
our young people have a
“night club” which meets
with the approval of their
parents. Best of all, the
club was their own choice,
for one of the first steps taken
by the Council was to put to
high school students the ques-
tion, “What do you need and

want most?” \Nhen a vote had been taken, it Was ‘

‘found that what these young people wanted above
everything else was a recreation center of their
own. After weeks of hard work on the part of
many citizens, and with the wholehearted support
of the entire population, the Campus Canteen be-
came a reality. ,

In order to put the idea across, it was necessary
.to have sufficient funds to carry on, and this prob-
lem was solved when the Casper Community Chest

offered to aid. The. Canteen is supported in full ‘

by the Chest, which provides the salary of a full—
time director. The city administration furnishes
space in the old city hall, having previously moved
the seat of government to a new city-county build-
ing. Lights and heat for the Canteen also are pro-
vided by the city.

The Canteen is open nightly during the summer
months from 7 to IO o’clock, Monday through

Friday, and to I I o’clock on Saturday nights; it is '

closed Sunday nights. During the school months
the Canteen will be open from 3 :30 to 5:30 P. M.
and from 7 to 10 P. M.

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

The "Campus Canteen" was Casper's
answer to the request of the city's
youth for a center of their own

The student body—
which includes boys and
girls of both high school
and junior high school
age—-—elects four of its
members as a governing
group to work with the
Coordinating Council and
director. There are sev-
eral other committees,
such as program, recrea-
tion, publicity, building,
and membership, which
work under the direction
of the student governing
council.

A nominal fee of twen-
ty-five cents is charged
for the summer months
and fifty cents for the
school year. A member-
ship card is issued which
can be revoked by the
student council, if it deems
necessary, for infractions
of the rules governing
the Canteen.

The High School Swing
Band plays for the dances on
Saturday nights, and special
programs are given by the program committee.
During week nights music for dancing is provided
by a juke box.

The soft drink bar, a pOpular part of the Can-
teen, is run by the members. Profits from this
project, along with membership dues, go into the
special Canteen fund which is handled by the
student finance committee.

Among the many features of the Canteen are
two “Powder Puff” rooms for the girls.

Table tennis is one of the most popular forms
of recreation, and the tables are in constant use
when the center is open. Many other games are
enjoyed, such as chess, checkers, darts, cards, and
shufHeboard. Groups are always around the piano,
playing and singing.

A chaperon system has been worked out where-
by each night a man and wife are at the Canteen.
There are a great many persons who give their
services, and in this. way we have a different couple

,each night. A telephone also is maintained so that

the parents of children can call them at any time.
In addition to the Campus Canteen,.which is‘

314 MORE “SODA POP” CENTERS

used exclusively by the high school and junior
high school students, the Coordinating Council is
sponsoring a grade school summertime athletic and
playground program, with boys’ and girls’ softball
games as the chief form of activity.

Yes, Casper was challenged by her youth and
that challenge has been met. We believe the youth
of the community have benefited from the efforts
of their fellow townspeople, but we cannot stop now
because the work has just started. The young
people of the community are joining in this pro-
gram nearly a hundred per cent, thus providing
the one sure guarantee that a youth movement
can be carried on successfully.

The youth of Casper are to be congratulated for
their untiring efforts in putting the Campus Can-
teen across to their own enjoyment and to the
satisfaction of all concerned. \Ve in Casper are
proud of our girls and boys, and as citizens of this
community of 22,000 people we are eager to help

provide them with enjoyable recreation now while
they are in their formative years.

“The Ranch House"

ARKANSAS CITY, KANSAS, is a community of
around 13,000 population, in the midst of big-
ranch country. Because of

this, the appropriate name, if”;

1....

mass #43

“The Ranch House,” won
first prize in a city-wide
contest for the best name
for the new recreation cen-
ter under way for the teen
age youngsters.

So The Ranch House
it is, and Ranch Foreman
B. A. Tubbs, Jr., called
together his ranch hands
and dude wranglers re-
cently to have a report on
the progress of the re-
modeling of the old Y.M.
C.A. building. The re-
modeling has cost $500, all
of which was contributed
enthusiastically by towns-
people, churches, social
agencies, and business
groups. Only $50 has been
spent for furniture. This
will consist of a divan and

"The Ranch House" in Arkansas City.
originally a YMCA buildingI is now
a genuine Western recreation cen-
ter for Western boys and girls.

 

barrel chair from Texas, made of skins and painted
with cowboys and Indians. Yippeel

The girls and boys have scrubbed Hoors and
washed woodwork and windows. The brackets to
hold the draperies were made by the boys. They
are forked sticks, skinned, sandpapered and var-
nished. Some furniture, too, is being made out of
sticks of this type.

Making the curtains will be the next big step.
The girls will make them out of monk’s cloth edged
with brown rope.

The Chuck Wagon (lunch room) has a counter
with red linoleum on top, and curtains made by
splitting an old-fashioned red and white checked
table cloth. The Cook Shack (kitchen) will have
blue and white checked tablecloth curtains. The
Corral (outside yard) is getting a good grooming,
too, with scythes and lawn mowers hard at work.

(Continued on page 356)

 

Photo by Flood, Casper Herald-Tribune

RECREATION

AWartime Church Picnic

HAT a predicament!

Time to stage the

Annual Sunday
School Picnic and no gas!
No motor buses to char-
ter! No way to get to the
beaches! City pools so
crowded with the regular swimmers that large or-
ganized groups were discouraged! Crowded street
cars! Longer working hours for adults! What an
impossible situation when a good time for every—
one was at stake.

For years, large motor buses had come to our
church on the morning of the day of the Annual
Picnic, and the boys and girls with bright, clean
faces and starched playclothes waited impatiently
for the parents and teachers to take care of last
minute loading of baskets and play equipment.
What a thrill it was to hear the motor speed up
and the gears grate into place. With cheers and
singing the buses were off for a day of swimming
and fun. We had become so used to this kind of
a Sunday School Picnic that even the thought of
doing anything else was taboo.

So it was with “crossed lingers” and “tongues
in cheeks” that the committee sat down to plan
the Annual Picnic. After quite some time had been
spent in wishing, we faced the facts and evolved a
plan to make it an old-fashioned get-together, fun
for all ages, using picnic stunts that were popular

years ago.

The Committee Meeting. We were in the midst
of the first step—the committee meeting of teach-
ers of the Sunday School. The most difhcult task
was to select the place—and it was only as a last
resort that we chose the “Backyard of the Church.”
Fortunately, the “backyard” was a beautiful ex-
panse of green grass. A tree here or there and
the church building provided shade, and a smooth,
Bat area was a perfect place for the baseball game.
The favored areas were
quickly chosen by the teach-
ers for certain groups. They
were glad that necessary fa—
cilities would be available and
there was no question about
the purity of the drinking
water. Little by little we began

SEPTEMBER 1943

By RUTH GARBER EHLERS
National Recreation Association

Even the planners were surprised
at this successful backyard party!

"There is great significance in the term
that we use for our leisure and our play.
We call it recreation. And so it is. It
makes us overI ,refreshes and cheers
usI gives us new life and spirit for our
higher tasks.” It has a direct bearing
upon our moral and spiritual develop-
ment."—Bisbop William T. Manning.

to realize that perhaps we
had stumbled onto some-
' thing worth while. As the
possibilities of “staying
home” presented them-
selves, enthusiasm grew
and everyone caught the
badly needed Spirit to “put it over.”

Publicity Campaign. To sell the idea to the
church and community something very definite
had to be done. A dodger was distributed to all
church members and people living in the commu-

nity. It told where and when and how the picnic
would be held.

Purchasing and Securing Supplies. Each teacher
took over the task of getting the supplies needed
for his or her particular group. Balloons, lolly-
pops, prizes, ribbons for the winners, dart games,
and bowling on the green were on the shopping
list. The Baltimore Department of Public Recre-
ation loaned the ball and bat, horseshoes, bean
board and bags, blocks for the potato race, and eggs
and spoons. Equipment for the stunts was col-
lected, and by this time many people were work-
ing hard to make it a success.

Preparation of the Grounds. Men and women
arrived early to mark off the baseball diamond,
the volleyball, deck tennis and horseshoe courts,
the bowling alley, and other play areas. They car-
ried out tables and chairs, for we know well that
people enjoy a “comfortable picnic.” Red, white
and blue napkins folded in triangles, pinned on
heavy cord, and strung from the corners of the
church gave an added note of festivity and gaiety.
The stage was now set for the actors and audience.

Afternoon Program
Nature Quiz—2:00 P. M.

As the guests arrived they were invited to join
in a nature quiz—men and
women, boys and girls. On
the shady side of the build-
ing, exhibits of vegetables,
weeds, seeds, pests, foliage of
trees or flowers were dis-
played on long tables. Signs
reading—“If you were weed- '

315

316 A WARTIZI/IE CHURCH PICNIC

ing your Victory Garden which of these would you
pull?” “Which of these will the japanese Beetles
destroy?” “Which of these are good to eat ?”——All
of the specimens were numbered, a teacher cor—
rected the papers, and presented the prizes at the
“Community Night.”

Games and Contests—3:00 P. M.

Little Tots—Sheltered area near church:
Circle games Stories

Contests ' Treasure hunt
Juniors:
Dart games Bowling on the green
Games and contests Treasure hunt
Intermediates :
Games and races
Volleyball
Deck Tennis E 
 PI NI & FIELD DAY
Ball game m
sexislw Adults Hunting Ridge Presbyterian
Horseshoes Sunday School
Volleyball Place: CHURCH LAWN
Baseball (Since all Date: SATURDAY. JULY 24th

the young men
were away, the
Bible Class men
played against the
other men of the
church)
Women:
Bean bag toss
Rolling pin throw
Walking the line
looking through
opera glasses
Bowling on the green
The members of the Women’s Guild took this
opportunity to sell lemonade and soft drinks and
their profits reached amazing heights during the
contests and games.

Time: 2 P. M.

The Picnic Supper—5:30 P. M.

The tables were arranged in long rows, and it
became a large “family supper.” The minister,
after all were seated, took this opportunity to
comment on the good time all were having—how-
it reminded him of days long ago when churches
had their "get-together-socials”—how their spirit
of play and fun had been manifested through the
various games—how they had had time to talk
and visit with one another and how thankful all

Bring: Yourself, your family and
your picnic supper.

Games . . . Contests . . . General Good Time
For Both Young and Old Youngsters

6W

COME AND HELP MAKE THIS
AN AFTERNOON OF REAL
FELLOWSHIP AND FUN

should be that we in this country can still enjoy
an afternoon arid evening of fellowship, undis-
turbed. He concluded by asking a blessing on the
food which was so plentiful and so appetizingly
arranged. It was a happy dinnertime and did
much toward cementing the bonds of friendship.

The Community Night—7:00 P. M.

Tables were carried inside, left—over food and
baskets were packed again and the chairs were
placed in a large semicircle.

* Singing well known songs was a good beginning.
The harmonizing voices in the quiet of a cool sum-
mer evening were very effective.

Awards. Special
awards to winners were
presented. (Candy and
popcorn novelties and
handmade crepe paper
badges were inexpen-
sive, but effective.)

Clean-up Squads. All
formed a long line at the
far end of the grounds,
and as they sang “I’ve
Been Working on the
Railroad,” they walked

.w slowly, picking up pic—
nic debris from the
"lawn. In less than five
minutes the grounds
were cleared. (The com-
ments of the guests
made this activity one
of the highlights of the
picnic.)

Contests. Pounding
nails in boards, hus—
band calling, hog calling, Happy Hooligan race,
balloon swats, even a peanut scramble and a bar—
ber shop quartette were enjoyed by old and young.

Singing. As the darkness began to close in,‘
“Blest Be the Tie That Binds” and “Good Night,
Ladies,” floated through the air, expressing a hap—
piness that comes when enjoyment is shared by
many.

The Aftermath. Those who lingered made these
interesting comments: “More people came than
have come for years.” “No one went home with

too much sunburn.” “More women were here.”
“Whole families were present.” “It was cheaper—
no admission to the grounds.” “\V e knew that

(Continued on. page 362)
RECREATION

Churches and Young People’s Groups

Many requests for help and information
which come to the Correspondence and

Consultation Bureau of the National
Recreation Association present problems
of far-reaching importance and inferes’r.

 

ERY OFTEN the requests for help and informa'—
Vtion received by the Correspondence and Con-

sultation Bureau of the National Recreation
Association present such universal problems and
touch so intimately on matters of common concern
that they and the replies to them are of widespread
interest.

Many letters reach the Association from church
groups which now more than ever before are real-
izing the needs of their young pe0ple for recrea—
tion and are seeking to meet these needs.

From the Rev. A. Karl Boehmke, Assistant
Pastor, Immanuel Lutheran Church, Kansas City,
Missouri, comes the following request for help:

“Could you give us advice on outlining a pro-
gram of recreation for our young pe0ple’s societies?

“We have three such societies: a Sophomore
iLeague, with
ages 11-13; a
Junior League,
with ages 13-17;
a n d a S e n i o r
League, with
ages 17-30. All
these societies
are affiliated with
the International
Walther League
which has recre—
ation as a deli—
nite part of its
youth building
program, but
which can fur-
nish material
only in a limited
w a y , sin c e it
covers also the
religious aspects
of youth develop—

SEPTEMBER 1943

ment. W e would like a more comprehensive rec-
reation program, with some kind of a guiding
phiIOSOphy behind it.

“Our leagues are average church young people’s
societies. They are mixed groups. Their numbers
range from thirty-five to fifty. The members are
for the greater part high school pupils or graduates.

“We have recently acquired a meeting room in
the basement of our church building. The room
measures 30’): 50’. Upon occasion it must be-
come part of a large auditorium; however, some
permanent equipment can be set up. We already
have ping—pong tables and dart ball, and are con-
templating shuflieboard and other games, and a
workbench in a small alcove.

“Could you:

1. Suggest material which would help us in fur—
nishing our meeting room.

2. Suggest material that would help us deter-
mine the correct balance between the religious
and recreational, as well as purely educational,
features of our program.

3. Make suggestions for a game book library

"Let it be their room—a hang-out room. as
some groups call it—from the very start."

 

Courtesy Lancaster, Pa., Recreation Association

317

318 CHURCHES AND YOUNG PEOPLE’S GROUPS

with which our young people could plan their
meetings and socials. (We try to let them do

their own planning.)
4. Offer any other suggestions which you think

might be of value to us.”

The Answer “

In reply, the Correspondence and Consultation
Bureau wrote:

“In giving you suggestions for furnishing your
church recreation room and planning its program,
the first and most important one is to let the young
pe0ple themselves do as much of it as possible.
Let it be their room—a hang-out room, as some
groups call it—from the very start. The older
groups can build, buy, or beg small, sturdy tables
and chairs just large enough for two people who
are checker or chess addicts. We advocate the
small size because the games can be painted on
their t0ps, thus saving the buying of game boards,
and because they can be moved easily and readily,
either out of the way entirely or for new arrange-
ments suitable for special programs.

“Privacy for those interested in crafts or discus-
sions may be had by building and using simple
screens, also easily movable, These screens will
be very useful. They can be used as partitions, as
bulletin boards, as stage sets for plays, and panto-
mimes, and for a puppet stage. You will find com-
plete directions for making such screens in the
May 1942 issue of our magazine, RECREATION,
available in the Periodical Room of the Public
Library in Kansas City. A raised platform, made
in sections, so that it too may be stored away, is
very useful. It will aid greatly in amateur dra-
matics, group singing, and the like.

“The girls can make the curtains, paint the fur—
niture, and perhaps make rag rugs. Even the
youngsters can really be useful. There are many
games and puzzles that they can make, as perma-
nent play equipment. They could be put in charge
of setting up a game cupboard and a puzzle shelf.

“The second point that we would emphasize is
to work out, with the young people’s groups,
objectives, both immediate and long-range. These
objectives, while they need not be actually reli—
gious in purpose, should be community-minded—
the attainment of which would give pleasure or
joy to other groups, both in and out of the church.

“The choosing of these objectives will open the
door for program coordination. For example, the
Senior League might make plans for a community
night, and committees from the other age groups

be put in charge of tickets, decorations, refresh-
ments, guessing games, circle games, simple square
dancing, and the like.

“Also, music and drama can be coordinated in
daily or weekly periods, leading up to a drama-
tization of Christmas carols, a creche scene (bring-
ing in handcrafts), traveling carolers, a commu—
nity Christmas tree with caroling. Other church
holidays offer interesting possibilities too seldom
used. In other words, what the groups learn for
themselves let them give to others. It will make
for a much more satisfying and socializing in-
fluence.

“If other recreation programs and facilities are
available to your groups, we would suggest that
your program should not compete with, or dupli-
cate them. Your groups should know about the
others, use them, and supplement them with a pro—
gram Carefully planned to contain activities and
objectives peculiar to itself, with its own fiavor
and originality.

“The typed description of one kind of program
will interest you, and under separate cover we are
sending you our bulletin on Play and Recreation
in the Church, which will amplify some of the
ideas in this letter. .

“For our own material we have checked those
items in our special lists that offer program ma-
terial suited for your use. It will be easy to build
up a good but inexpensive recreation library from
these suggestions.

“If you plan to train any of your groups for
recreation leadership, look up the January 1942
issue of RECREATION, and read the account of such
a course given by Mr. Hallock of the Indianapolis
Y.M.C.A. It is entitled ‘Service to the Church

Through Leadership Training.’ ”

Churches and all other community groups work—
ing with our young people will find many helpful
suggestions for their programs in the recently pub-
lished booklet, Teen Trouble, extracts from which
appeared in the April 1943 issue of RECREATION.
This practical booklet not only discusses some of
the many problems which boys and girls are facing
in wartime, but tells how a number of American
cities are seeking to find a solution for these prob-
lems through the provision of interesting and
challenging programs of recreational activities
planned specifically to meet the needs and prefer«
ences of this age group. Copies of this twenty-four
page publication may be secured at ten cents each
from the National Recreation Association.

- RECREATION

I

 

From an Annual Report . . . .

The Acting Superintendent of Recreation in
Austin, Texas, reports that rationing of gas
and tires placed new emphasis on the impor-
tance of community programs during 1942.

ll OT ONE COMMUNITY center but four” is the
N report from the Recreation Department of
Austin, Texas, for 1942. This increase was

made because of the need for additional neighbor-
hood recreational opportunities in view of the cur-
tailment on driving. Broad programs of activity
were offered at the centers, including dancing, dra-

matics, sports, and games.

Among the fifteen types of cooperation listed
by the department in its annual report was the plan
worked out with the University of Texas, whereby
the department provided talented children from
among those coming to the playgrounds for the
experimental drama work of the University Dra-
matic School. The training the boys and girls re—
ceived was well worth while and raised the stand-
ard of the acting in the department’s annual dra-
matic festival. In return for the assistance given
by the children Dramatic School students pre-
sented a one-act play on a number of the play-
grounds.

For the hrst time in 1942, the various mothers’
clubs associated with the playgrounds participated

SEPTEMBER 1943

in a city-wide playground pageant, “Fiesta,” pre-
sented on the \Nest Austin playground. Members
of the club helped decorate the grounds and then
appeared as vendors of gayly colored Mexican
articles. More than 300 children danced, played,
and sang in the pageant.

For the first time, too, the city-wide central
council of the mothers’ clubs held each of its
monthly meetings at different playgrounds. The
new plan gave members of the local mothers’ clubs
the opportunity of serving as hostesses to the cen-
tral council. For these meetings, informal pro-
grams consisting of demonstrations by the chil-

dren arranged by playground leaders added to the
enjoyment of the mothers.

An interesting development in the program
came with the placing of two museums under the
administration of the Recreation Department.
Early in 1942 the Elizabeth Ney Museum, deeded
to the city the previous year, was put under the
jurisdiction of the department. The Advisory
Board of the Texas Fine Arts Association still
assumes full responsibility for the activities of the
museum, but the Recreation Department, which
takes care of maintenance, salaries, and utilities,
has contributed greatly to the attractiveness of the
buildings and grounds.

The museum is now serving the community in

(Continued on page 352)

319

A!“ ._ v

Courtesy Union County, N. 1., Park Commission

We Bought a Park

By FRANK DUNN

a long time, trying to tell the kids that this

country really has a government of the people.
It looks good on paper. The kids are always
deeply impressed. They believe that we have a
democracy, but as an adult living in the world out-
side of school, I’m afraid I had my doubts. I
haven’t any longer.

I HAVE BEEN TEACHING in the public schools for

In school one day we had a lesson on Democ-
racy. The principle to be evolved was, “In a de-
mocracy, if a sufficient number of people wishes
a public improvement, the opportunity to get the
improvement is always possible.” I had always
hoped that this was true. Now I know that it is,
and I can talk about it with more confidence, be-
cause, you see, we’ve just bought a park.

320

 

.1.‘ x K“ 

,.

That park is a reality now, although a
year ago it was a dream, a fantastic dream.
When I walk down the street now, I meet
Harry or Lester or Joe and with their
greeting there passes between us a kind of
knowing wink as if' we are saying to each
other, “Well, boy, we did it. Yes, sir, we
did it. And if the chance ever comes, we’ll
do it again.” '

Our town is just like your town. We
have a small plot called Cannon Green, a
triangular piece of turf where pyramids of
cannon balls decorate the vertices. In the
center is a granite pedestal which supports
an old cannon. A bronze plaque proclaims
the names of our boys who went to serve
their country in the last war. The Com-
munity Service Station is located at the
busy intersection. Across the street is the
chain store, diSplaying its gaudy red front
to the afternoon sun. A long, low, one—
story building houses the drug store,
butcher market, Joe’s barbership, and the
post oflice. The old trolley rails are
partly covered by aSphalt, but here and
there a gleam of brilliant steel shows
through, reminding us all that maybe they
should be dug up and salvaged for the war
effort. .Our town is like yours, except that
4 now we know what the little fellow can do.

 

We didn’t at first, of course. You know
the kind of small talk our town indulges in. “The
trouble is those birds in city hall are grabbing
everything for themselves.” “I wish someone had
the guts to tell them off I” “Too bad nobody cares,
they shouldn’t let that happen.” “They lost their
chance twenty years ago, I don’t know what they
were thinking of to let that chance slip by.” “What
are they going to do about the old school grounds?”

One Sunday morning about a year ago, Earle,
the chief of the volunteer fire department, came to.
see me. “I just heard that Bayley is going to sell
Roton Point,” he said.

“Yes, Earle, I had been expecting something of
the sort. What with the government’s confiscation
of his excursion steamer, and the gasoline ration—
ing, it doesn’t seem possible that he can make it
pay for the duration.”

“Listen, Frank, you’re the president of the Civic
Association. Let’s go see Bayley and ask him how
much he wants for the park. Maybe we can get
the town to take it over.”

As we drove by the barricaded entrance to R0—
ton Point, the faded sign over the wide gate an-

RECREATION

WE BOUGHT A PARK 321

nounced, “The Prettiest Park on Long Island
Sound.” The wild azaleas scattered through
“Knickerbocker Grove” of tall oak trees needed no
sign to tell how pretty they were. As we walked
through the park, the sun was glittering off the
Sound and the waves lapped gently on the beaches.
We stood on the hill. Twenty-two acres—ball
ground, parking space, roadways, garish roller
coaster, refreshment stands, dance hall, pier, bath
houses, hotel, rustic summer hOuse, and off in the
distance Long Island.

On a bench sunning themselves were Mose,
the groundskeeper, and two other fellows. “Is
Bayley around? I hear he wants to sell the park,”
Earle addressed all three and no one in particular.

Mose scratched his chin, “Why, no, he’s not
around, but his assistant Harry is home; I think
you could see him. Anything special?”

“Yes, I want to ask him the price of the park,
maybe the town would be interested.”

There was a cynical sneer on the face of the
little stout guy sitting next to Mose. He said that
they’d never stand for it. He said that with taxes
the way they were—with the war——-—with the price
he wanted—they’d never stand for it. But Earle
and I were off to see Harry.

Harry looked at us quizzically. It was true; the
park was for sale. The price—well, make an offer.
Mr. Bayley doesn’t know how much he can get
for the park. The decision has been precipitated
so suddenly, and it was such a large piece of
property that the final price will probably be the
result of bargaining.

On the train going into the city I struck up a
casual conversation with one of my neighbors. “I
hear that Roton Point is for sale,” I said.
“Wouldn’t it be nice if the town stepped in and
bought it?”

“Yes, it would be fine but they’ll never do it.
They lost their chance twenty years ago when
they didn’t acquire Columbus Grove.”

There it was again, the indefinite THEY. _Who
were they? The kids in school have the answer
to that one. “The voters,” the kids say. Well—I
decided to ask them.

The next week in the mail to all the voters was
a letter from the President of the Rowayton Civic
Association telling them that Roton Point was for
sale. The letter was in the form of a catechism,
outlining the democratic procedure necessary if
they wished to acquire the park. A meeting was
called to discuss the project. George, a cartoonist
neighbor, had brightened up the mimeographed

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

The people of Rowayton, Connecticut,
bought themselves a park—and discov-
ered that grass-roots Democracy works

 

letter with sketches of the “taxpayer” in a barrel,
sweating over the thought of increased taxes!

“This meeting will please come to order.”

Was that my voice? How queer it sounded.
Maybe it was the heat. “hat was causing the
terrific pounding of my heart? In the front row
sat Mr. R. glowering at me with a kind of how—

dare-you look in his eye. The rest was a sea of

faces. Here THEY were. The faces came into
focus. There was red-headed Chubby, the kid who
used to steal my apples. That pretty girl next to
him must be his new wife.

Jack, my bridge partner, was out there smiling
encouragement to me, The cynical little stout guy
looked as though he was tasting something bitter.
The queenly chairlady of the Red Cross Commit-
tee was tucking in a stray wisp of gray hair.

“Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman!”

I felt what was coming. Mr. R. had said that he
was going to oppose it. I rapped the gavel, “Mr.
R, has the floor.”

“Mr. Chairman, I rise in denouncement of this
ridiculous —- unthinkable — nation under stress,
boys giving their lives———unsettled economic—~as-
sessed valuation—hundred thousand—tax rate——
scurrilous representation of the taxpayer on the
circular—sue for libel (my bridge partner was
grinning broadly, Sue and Jenny were tittering)-—
place under water half the time—hasn’t a clear
title—national emergency—fritterng away public
funds—trespassing on the rights of innocent citi-
zens — burdening future generations ——- I have
always advocated—so therefore I call upon every
right thinking——— and in conclusion let me —-—” and
with a grand flourish of important looking docu-
ments, he took his seat.

“Mr. Chairman!”

“The Chair acknowledges Mr. C.”

“Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that there is a_
high penalty placed upon the ownership of prop-
erty. A man buys a piece of property and then
finds that there are assessments, taxes, responsi-
bilities and no end of care, and I object heartily to
any movement to increase taxation.”

322 WE BOUGHT A PARK

This type of argument proceeded for one hour.
Not a person spoke in favor of the idea. Finally,
from the floor, “Mr. Chairman!”

“Mr. Chairman, I have listened to all of the
arguments here tonight and, from what I can
gather, no one wants this project to go on. I
should like to call for a vote, or a showing of hands
right now to find out how many want the park and
how many don’t want it.”

“Will those in favor of continuing negotiations
for this park signify by raising their right hands?”
That was my voice again.

Hands, hats, and handkerchiefs filled the air.
Shouts and wh00ps and stamping of feet rocked
the foundation of Library Hall. When the com—
motion had somewhat subsided, the call was given
for those wishing to discontinue the negotiations.
The fifteen articulate members stood up. A motion
to adjourn, subject to the call of the chairman, was
then made, The non-articulate Little Man had
won round one.

The committee of three waited on Mr. Bayley.
He kept chain smoking his cigarettes so that the
discarded ones formed a ring around his swivel
chair. “And young man, and Mr. Commissioner,
and my charming ‘DUChess,’ come see me as often
as you like. I have made up my mind. The price
is seventy-five thousand dollars, ten thousand to
be paid down on the first of September. I can and
will negotiate a suitable mortgage. Good after-
noonf’

Then came an unofficial meeting of those repre-
sentative people who were in favor of the project.
“VVon’t he wait until the state legislature meets in
February?”

“No, he says that although the enthusiasm of
the townsfolk is high, the proposition is altogether
too tenuous. He insists that where there’s a will
there’s a. way and if we really mean business,
we’ll produce the ten thousand on time.”

“Could we raise the ten thousand privately, and
hold the park until the town could legally take it
over?”

“No, we don’t think so. It’s too much money
for us to raise on so short a notice. Nothing much
we can do except see what turns up.”

* =I= * a: *

“Mr. McKendry of New Canaan to see you,”
my wife called from the porch. I dr0pped the
hedge clippers and hurried in.

“Several of us in New Canaan are anxious to
get hold of a piece of Roton Point,” he said, after
greetings, “Are you willing to combine and we

can divide the park to suit you people here in

Rowayton ?”
“Mother, mix Mr. McKendry something cold,

and under no circumstances let him get out of your ,
sight!” In fifteen minutes I had rustled up Doc,
Bob, Jack, and Ed. McKendry, speaking for his
group, agreed to take all the property east of the
roadway at forty-five thousand dollars, and we

I agreed on all 9 west of the roadway at thirty

thousand.
Doc, Mel, Babe, and I worked over the map and

framed the motion. Babe’s wife prepared the bal-
lots and slit the shoe boxes to receive them. She
instructed four girls in the knack of rapidly check-
ing off voters’ lists.

When the meeting was over, the “Ayes” over-
whelmed the “Noes” by eight to one. But the four
thousand dollars — what about the four, thousand
dollars by September first? McKendry was ready
with six thousand for his share. The people of
Rowayton were told that if they wanted the park
badly enough they would buy it privately and hold
it until the state legislature authorized the town to
make the purchase. ’

“Suppose the legislature does not authorize the
purchase?”

“Then you own a park, and owe twenty-six
thousand dollars.”

And that’s how we bought Roton Point Park.

“Did they subscribe?” you ask. Yes, indeed
they did, eighty-five families subscribed fifty—six
hundred dollars. And did the state legislature au-
thorize the town to make the purchase? It did,
indeed. Did the eighty-five families get their
money back? They certainly did.

And they tell me that the money is available
again, in case we ever have another good project
to offer.

So that’s why Joe and Lester and Harry have a
new glint in their eyes. We know who runs our
town. We have a park to prove it. We have a
beach and a ball field and a picnic grove. Our
park wasn’t donated by a rich philanthropist. We
bought it. i

“The very nature of our democratic government
calls for the cooperation of its entire citizenship if
we are to progress as a nation. Our corruption in
government is made possible only when people
lack suHicient interest to take an active part in the
everyday affairs of their community, state, and
federal government.”—C. R. Morrison in Parks

and Recreation.

RECREATION

 

could see that the war was cer—

tain to bring new problems,
whether or not America was directly
involved in“ the fighting. Would, for instance, tax-
payers be forced to decide what was luxury and
content themselves with bare necessities? And if
luxury must be diSpensed with, is a park system
and service a luxury or is it a necessity? The
future of parks, thought the Chicago Park Dis-
trict, might well depend on the answer to that
. question.

We attempted to find out what the people them—
selves thought on the subject. Their two argu—
ments, that parks and recreation centers are desir—
able places “to keep children off the streets,” and
that play facilities prevent delinquency, seemed, on
inspection, to be negative in value, rather than
positive. They did convince us,
however, that our 35-year-old
effort to convey our own ideas
to the public had not proved
very successful. We had been
saying that our community
centers developed neighborli-
ness, helped to maintain com—

SEPTEMBER 1943

| N 1940 EVEN a superficial observer

By V. K. BROWN

Director of Recreation
Chicago Park District

Parks are assuming great importance
in a wartime program of recreation
which has as one of its obiectives
relaxation and release from tension.
We present a digest of an article by
Mr. Brown which appeared in the Feb-
ruary issue of The American City.

Courtesy Perry-Mansfield C am 1::

The Place of Parks in a World at: War

munity morale, enriched our com-
mon life together. We had talked
about personality development, char-
acter building, physical development.
We had indicated that sportsmanship and fair play
in games emphasizes standards and discipline. We
had insisted that beauty has its values, and we had
proclaimed that in a machine age we need means
of relaxation and release from tension.

But, evidently, we had better change our meth-
ods. We had better listen first before talking
further, And in so doing we found three lines of
thought current in the public consciousness for
which we attempted to provide practical applica-
tions. _

The first such idea which we found to be preva—
lent was this: There is a sheer necessity for

national unity. To this we could say:
“Yes, I think you are right. We

must get together and stick to-
gether. But don’t you think that
we can get some training for that
kind of team-work out of our ex-
perience in team-work in our Sports P
Don’t you think, for example, that
the discovery that our foreign-born
citizens are just as much interested

323

324 THE PLACE OF PARKS IN A WORLD AT WAR

as we are in community improvement does some-
thing to give us confidence in them, as fellow citi-
zens?”

When we say that, after the citizen has brought
the subject up himself, we are talking his language.
He welcomes additional ideas when they second
his own motion.

The next idea which we found to be so wide-
Spread as to be almost universal was this: There
is a pioneering job stretching out before us after
this war is over-—the job of building the world all
over again. \Ve must prepare ourselves for that
job. We must be physically fit. In response to
that idea we could say:

“We can be thankful that we have some equipment
to help us. We have our park swimming pools, our
sports fields, our hiking trails, our boating lagoons,
our areas for coasting or skating or camping or
mountain climbing. I don’t believe (and I have a
hunch that you don’t believe) that Americans are
going to get physically fit Iby going through a dull
and uninteresting set of formal exercises.

“Every sport that we have keeps alive by con-
stantly becoming more difficult: billiards move into
three—cushion; golf courses build new and more dif-
ficult hazards; manufacturers develop the livelier ball
in baseball; the sportsmen themselves introduce the
forward pass in football. Whist becomes bridge and
then contract. That’s the way sports evolve. And
because there is something in us that is stimulated by
challenge and difficulty, we go in for competition.

“Our parks certainly fit into the need you have

been talking about. If America is going to tackle this
tough situation with typical American spirit, it is
lucky we have such practice grounds to get ourselves
into shape for the grim job we face. Don’t you
think so P”

The third idea which we found to be widespread
was a result of the public attention given to the
“war of nerves” abroad. Fortunately would-be
world conquerors told us what to expect.

We knew we had been through a lot, this gen-
eration. We knew that the first world war, our
losses in the depression, the crumbling of our eco-
nomic order, the upsetting of forms of government
we had previously thought secure—all these ex-
periences had brought us to the ragged edge.

\Ve felt that we were on the verge of becoming
jittery, if we were not, in fact, already so. We
knew that our nerves were getting jumpy. We
had become suspicious of everything and every—
body—the so—called “politicians” in office, the
“pressure groups” in the seat of government, “big
business,” “labor,” the “subsidized press,” “capi—
talism,” “reformers”—everything!

Everybody knew the war of nerves was on.
Everybody was worried about it. Everybody asked
himself—how can we relax? How can we calm

down, get a good night’s sleep, and come back to
face our problems calmly in the morning, \Ve
were able to say:

“That is, perhaps, our most‘fundamental problem.
It is fortunate that some citizens are wise enough
and keen enough to see it. But it is also fortunate
that we have our park development in this country
to help us find the answer. Getting out into the
woods, under the trees, sitting on the shore of the
lake or the bank of the river, picnicking with the
family on the grass, smelling wood smoke, or hiking
down the nature trails, listening to the birds and
observing the Howers, going for a swim after a tough
day in the office, getting out for a friendly game of
softball on the park diamond. Yes, even our arts and
appreciations, our crafts and hobbies, listening to
concerts under the stars, responding to the beauty
of a Bower, a sunset, a painting, an oration, or a
poem—all of them take our minds off our worries!
They move us over to some other spot on the carpet,
not to wear threadbare the place that gets the wear
and tear of business life.

“All these things are just the restorative we need.
They put us back into balance. They give us nervous
tone and resilience. Certainly we can thank the wis-

dom of our fathers for having provided park insti-
tutions and a service which now meets this vital need.
If, at this moment, we can mobilize all the right-
thinking citizens like yourself, get them to spread
the gospel of periodic relaxation, we need not con-
tent ourselves merely with worrying about the fact
that we-have worries, thereby adding still another
worry to the list already threatening our undoing.
Our park systems, either 'here in our home town, or
scattered over the state, up in the North Woods, out
in the mountains, or down at the seashore—-they are
a godsend. Made to order for just this crisis I”

In the last two years, these approaches have
been our new publicity, Already, we believe, we
have made more progress in developing a public
understanding of the park system, its meanings
and values, than we made in all the years when we
were advancing only our ideas, but in such vague
and foreign terms that they awoke no reSponsive
thinking on the part of the general citizenship.

The first fundamental of park security is that
parks talk the language of the common people to
make themselves understand. When we relate our-
selves to things the common people are thinking
about, then we take our first steps toward insur-
ance of our future. \Ve think this process in con-
nection with the park program is doing just that.
we think we see evidences that it is doing so suc-
cessfully.

RECREATION

 

lsoatexoi'tuos‘I-i 06.4

.
_. oovi‘ i
1.109 x o 10:60 an i)
I I. hO.‘ O. I
. I. OK *i' 00‘!"
'0 v_.'su‘K-x ovvoooauu
to
,{1 319‘ i .QKOKOIV
 a h.‘.‘ "‘ ‘. x. -
11.5 011.:o
o 1
H9IKI
o.1.(¢v) x .01 1
'o 1 :a g” 5 x

The Air

- r O s i 1)

OME PLAY in war-
H time went on the

air in March when
the Women’s \Var Forum
broadcast of Station
WGY in Schenectady
dedicated a program to recreation in the home.
Susan M. Lee, third vice-president and secretary
Of the Board of Directors of the National Recrea-
tion Association, was guest speaker on the broad-
cast. Following is the script written for the
Women’s War‘ Forum:

ANNOUNOER: Women of America, your country
is at war. Schenectady is at war. Schenectady,
one of the biggest industrial centers in the
United States, is fighting the battle behind the
lines . . . the Battle of Production.

KEBBE: Paul McNutt has said: “The American
people need to play and they need it now. It
should not detract from, but forward the war
job. Children need recreation normally and even
more in times of tension and anxiety. Adults
need recreation because it helps refresh and re-
new their minds and bodies for the day’s work.”

SALLY: Simple, inexpensive stay—at—home recrea-
tion is possible for every family in wartime,
despite War Bond budgets and the necessity for
all of us to avoid using our cars. Our guest this
afternoon has some fascinating information to
give you on Home Play in \Vartime, which we
know you’ll be interested to hear'about. SO,
now we turn our microphones over to our guests
on the VVomen’s War Forum.

KEBBE: You all know that our boys in the Army
and Navy have regular planned periods of rec-
reation, and I believe the Women’s Army and

Navy Reserves do also—don’t they, Miss Wilson?

WILSON: I don’t know about the Navy—Hbut I
know the W omen’s Army Auxiliary Corps does.
And I’ll be right in the thick of it in a few days.

SEPTEMBER 1943

v -‘ ' ":”f¢‘f4""’"“”‘t “""~~-' -"-!stnmrnwnwaae 5V  " ""'_"‘"’  "“
Etiwwii’twngou-ya/ . . a {winner}. u” I; Huh." "ju'wn nu o
" v ‘ 0-minu-

;

I a s A o o u I o p u I o a s {O

a ; I I 1»

Miss Susan M. Lee. third vice-president and
secretary of the Board of Directors of the
National Recreation Association. talks with
Mrs. John Sarto about home play in wartime

KEBBE: Good. Miss Jeannette Wilson, ladies,
whom you know is a WAAC, was a stenogra-
pher at American Locomotive up until a few
days agow—and shortly she’s leaving us to re-

lieve a man for active duty. Why did you de-
cide to join the WAACS, Miss Wilson?

WILSON: Well, I should say, fifty per cent of my
reasons for joining was patriotism. You see I
have a brother who’s a Technical Sergeant some-
where in the Middle East—and my boy friend,
who is a Lieutenant in the anti—tank division,
will be going any minute—if he hasn’t already
gone. And the other fifty per cent is a mixture
of wanting to do something closely connected
with the war and a desire for a little adventure.

KEBBE: And I should say they were really excel—
lent reasons, Miss Wilson. I hOpe you get your
adventure.

WILSON: I’ve already got some. Just looking for-
ward a few days to my day of leaving is pretty
exciting in itself.

KEBBE: DO you know where you’re going?

WILSON: All I know is what I read in the papers,
Mr. Kebbe. There it says, the new group Of
WAACS will go to Daytona Beach, Florida.

KEBBE: Ah, lucky lady. Now, if you don’t mind,
Miss Wilson, we’ll leave you for just a moment
and meet our second guest who is Mrs, John
Sarto, and she should have some idea of the

325

326 HOME PLAY ON THE AIR

value of civilian recreation in wartime, because
she’s doing quite a job in Civilian Defense work.
Will you explain a little about your work, Mrs.
Sarto, please?

SARTo: My Civilian Defense work is Mass Feed-
ing and I really welcome this chance to say
something about my work, because I think it’s
one of the least known of all.Civilian Defense
activities that women can do.

KEBBE: And it’s one of the most important, I
might add.

SARTO: Well, I don’t want to say so—but the
'OCD has first call on Mass-Feeders—‘and no
other civilian defense organizations can take
precedence in times of emergency.

KEBBE: Just how do you work, Mrs. Sa_rto?

SARTo: In an emergency, such as a bombing, as
soon as the all clear is sounded, we go out with
our mobile kitchens and set them up in some
previously designated area. Then we feed those
who are in need. We all work together. There
are no bosses, so to speak. Each woman is as-
signed a certain job to do. . . .

KEBBE: You mean, someone will make coffee and
someone else sandwiches, and so on?

SARTo: That’s it. But it’s not as simple as it
sounds. We must take a six weeks course and
then practice what we’ve learned at some hos-
pital. Our group has had to take over the
kitchens at the Ellis Hospital and feed the
patients from time to time.

KEBBE: You know all this Civilian Defense work
is highly practical, isn’t it, for war or peace-
time. Incidentally, I know your husband is a

war worker, and I wish you’d say a word for
him, Mrs. Sarto.

SARTO-I He is in charge of expediting in the Ma-
terial Department at American Locomotive. And
what with the large number of tanks they’re

building now, he spends most of his time at the
plant.

KEBREI Lots of overtime, eh? (SARTo: Yes)
“7 ell, I think you’ve almost proved the case for
civilian recreation in wartime, Mrs. S’arto.

Extra busy peeple need relief from nervous
strain and tension.

LEE: The point is, Mr. Kebbe, how are they going
to get it?

KEBBE: I’m going to let you answer that one,

Miss Lee, as soon as I introduce you. Ladies
of the listening audience, Mrs. Sarto and Miss
Wilson, 'may I present, Susan Lee, a Director
of the National Recreation Association, who is
going to discuss with us today, the extremely
important subject of wartime recreation and
Home Play in Wartime, Miss Lee.

LEE: How do you do. The aim of the National
Recreation Association is that every child in
America shall have a chance to play. That
everybody in America young or old shall have
an opportunity to find the best and most satis-
fying use of leisure time. These aims take on a
new significance in wartime when the nation is
looking to its citizens for the- fighting Spirit
which we call morale.

WILSON: And you think that recreation plays an

important part in building a nation’s morale,
Miss Lee?

LEE: Yes, definitely. We all need play—some fun
and relaxation in our leisure time, both in peace—
time and wartime. Not only children—but
adults as well. You people in Schenectady, who
are really doing such a magnificent job, must
realize the value of recreation. But what are
you going to do under wartime restrictions?
With rubber being saved for war purposes, you
can’t drive your cars as you used to. Your
budgets, too, are limited—with money going into
taxes and War Bonds.

SARTO: Then the solution is to find ways and
means of simple recreation at home, Miss Lee.

LEE: That’s exactly the idea, Mrs. Sarto. And
the National Recreation Association, in addition
to its work for community programs, has always

been concerned with home play and family rec-
reation.

KEBBEI On the surface, it seems simpleoenough,
Miss Lee.

LEE: It does; Mr. Kebbe. And yet, the work of our
organization reaches out into every state of the
Union. Our service is available to all who ask
for it. And you’d be surprised at the number-
less letters we receive requesting information
from teachers, parents, and even children all
over the country. Now that it is getting more
difficult to go outside the home for much needed
recreation, the family is thrown back more and
more on its own resources—and often enough,

people are at a loss as to what to do with their
spare time. '

RECREATION

HOME PLAY ON THE AIR 327

WILSON: I can imagine many families would be
really stumped for ideas without the use of the

family car.

LEE: I am afraid they would, Miss Wilson. And
yet these families need ideas right now if they——
both adults and children—are to have the rec-
reation they want. And actually, home play in
wartime——-w11ich will help to satisfy the need we
all feel for unity and solidarity with our family
and our neighborhood—is not so hard to get as

_ it seems at first. The average home is full of
possibilities for games, and crafts, and’dramatics
if families will just give their imagination free
rein—and give some thought to the space and
materials at hand.

KEBBE: For instance, Miss Lee.

LEE: Well, a lot of toys aren’t necessary for chil-
dren. There are wonderful dolls clothes con-
cealed in your scrap-cloth bag. Grocery cartons
and boxes not only make practical wagons for
young ones—but give them something construc-
tive to do. If you live in the country, there are
berries for stringing, birchbark for canoes and
picture frames . . .

KEBBE: Say, I just remembered. When I was a
child, I made a whole town from pasteboard
boxes—painted them——cut out windows and

so on.
SARTO: Was it- fun, Mr. Kebbe?
KEBBE: Yes, it was. Really it was.

LEE: Of course, it was. And there are lots of
other games. That old trunk in your_attic is
full of old-fashioned clothes that_make delightful
costumes for children’s dramatics. Then of
course, there are all kinds of card games.

WILSON: But even bridge can get tiring if you
play it often enough.

LEE: That’s true all right. But what about pounce,
slap jack, I doubt it, or gin rummy?

WILSON: Or pinochle or hearts. There are two
games I used to love.

LEE: Yes, and they’re coming back into fashion.
But sitting around of an evening, with your next
door neighbor—you can have lots of fun play-
ing those forgotten card games. They’re noisy
and lively—and they don’t require so much con-
centration——and you won’t want to concentrate

anyway, after you’ve been doing it all day over
some machine in a war plant.

SEPTEMBER 1943

SARTO: You’re referring more to adults, now of
course.

LEE: Well, yes, but not entirely. These old time
games are good for all ages.

WILSON: Have you more suggestions, then?

LEE: Yes, though we have gasoline rationing, we
can still walk places. There must be ample op-
portunities for picnicking in and around Sche-
nectady. There must be many spots in the hills
and along the Mohawk that you have not ex-
plored yet. But to get right back to the home—
which I do want to emphasizer—there are un-
limited possibilities in your own back yard.
Stretch a rope between two trees and you have
a deck tennis court. A few discs of wood, a
pole, and some chalk for marking your cement
driveway, and you have a very workable shuffle-
board. Or how about horseshoe pitching? Have
you forgotten what fun that was—and all you
need are a couple of stakes and a few horse-

shoes.

SARTO: Also, cooking out in your own backyard
could be included.

LEE: Yes, picnics in your own backyard are just
as much fun (and half the work) as picnics
away from home. Perhaps you can make a fire-
place from stone or brick over which you can
broil hamburgers. . . .

WILSON: If you can get hamburgers.

LEE: True enough, Miss Wilson—and as time
goes on the “ifs” will become more common-
place. The rationings and restrictions placed
upon us at present are nothing to what they will
be before the war is over. Tension and nervous
strain will increase rather than decrease. We
will be staying at home much more in the near
future than we are now—all of us. That is why
now is the time to prepare ourselves’for home
play in wartime. You working mothers (and
there will be “more of you) must feel that your
children are happily occupied while you are
away. Plan now for the time when you will be
away from home a great part of the day.

SARTo: Do you think an older child can help in
this situation?

LEE: Without doubt. Many‘children, especially
the teen-age girls whose problems we hear so
much about, enjoy playing with younger chil-
dren and are proud of the feeling of responsi—

( Continued on page 360)

uNuts!" You Too Can Make These Things

HE INTEREST of many ser-
Tvicemen has been chal-

lenged by the number of
craft articles which may be
made from nuts. At their work—
shop in Chicago’s Auditorium
Center, the boys in uniform
have made bracelets, belts,
necklaces, lapel gadgets, salt
and pepper shakers, buckles,
earrings, rings, brooches, ash
trays, flower pots, and buttons—all from nuts and
nutshells.

In making these articles, nutshells of various
kinds are cut longitudinally or in cross section. In
some instances, 'cutting diagonally gives a very
interesting pattern resembling butterflies, medal-
lions, or other figures. Butternuts, black walnuts,
hard-shelled pecans, Brazil nuts, hazelnuts, coco—
nuts, and even date, red plum, and dark cherry
pits have been found suitable for this work.

The nuts may be cut by hand, using a miter saw
or c0ping saw, but the most satisfactory method is
to use a band saw with a metal cutting blade. In
order that the slices may be of any thickness and
yet hold the nut firmly, a jig has been devised
which is made from heavy, power hack saw blades,
mounted in a block of wood. The illustration at
the bottom of the page shows this device. The
hack saw blades are arranged on the principle of
a nutcracker and enable one to grip the nut firmly
so that slices may be cut from both ends of the nut
until the operator reaches the center section
gripped by the jaws of the jig. This sawing to
the required thickness is performed, of course,

without removing the nut from the jig.
The second

illustration
shows a device
made to hold
the nut sections
while filing
them. The jig
is made in the
following man-
ner: For the
ba se , use a
piece of wood

328

By H. W. GRAEF

Area Supervisor of Recreation
Chicago Park District

This sign above a display cabinet in
the craft shop at the Chicago Service
Men's Center really "gets 'ern go-
ing." One soldier asked' "Do you have
to be Icraclred' to do this work?" The

answer was. "No —— just 'nutty'l"

 

approximately I” x 2” x 9”,
and drill a %” hole through
the flat "surface about I” from
either end. The filing block is
made of wood about I” in di-
ameter, and 2%” long, and is
turned down on one end to
form a nipple V2” in diameter
and I” long. This nipple is
fitted to the %” hole previ-
ously drilled in the base. A
small hole may then be drilled through the base
and nipple, and a nail inserted in this hole will
keep the filing block from turning. Several very
small holes are drilled in the top of the filing block
to hold two small brads so that the heads of the
brads project about 1/16” above the surface of the
block. These brads may be moved to different
holes to suit the nut section being filed. The jig is
used by clamping the base to the table or bench so
that the filing block is about 6” out from the edge
of the table.

The nut section is placed on top of the filing
block, and the pressure against the heads of the
brads will hold the section firme while the filing
is accomplished. A mill file is used to remove all
saw marks and to shape the edges so that they
conform to a general pattern. A piece of sand-
paper, cut to approximately 2%” in length by V2”
in width, is folded lengthwise to provide a good
grit surface on both sides. One end of the piece of
sandpaper is held firmly between the thumb and
first finger, and the other end between the third
and little fingers, with the tips of the first, second
and third fingers resting on the little belt thus
formed. Sanding in this way, with No. 7/0 gran-
ite and No. 8/0
pouncing paper
gives a very
smooth surface
suitable for the
final polishing.
In sanding, al-
most all sharp
edges are re-
m 0 v e d , a n d
light reflections
show that the

RECREATION

“NUTS!” YOU TOO CAN MAKE THESE THINGS 329

‘ .1..." mm-qw 

rv/u 
’ 1

   
  

.e
I
l

l
.IZ‘M'“\.r""r-"”.- a" ,,,, _ J

 

:5, WM“--. -

edges are rounded to a soft and pleasing contour.
‘ After sanding, the dust is brushed from the nut
section and the nut meats (which have been previ-
ously removed and saved in a glass jar) are
pressed firmly into the shell so that the oil from
the meat is absorbed by the shell. The shell sec-
tions may be left to “soak” for a few days with
the nut meats pressed into them, which gives a
somewhat deeper penetration of the oil. Ordin—
arily, however, after a few minutes the nut meats
may be removed from the shell section by means
of a sharp instrument. Old worn-out dentist tools
are suitable for this purpose. The sections should
then be brushed clean with an old toothbrush.

If, for any reason, holes are to be drilled in the
shell, this should be done before polishing. A very
satisfactory instrument for drilling such holes is a
“bud” burr used in a “Handee” grinder. This
burr has less tendency to draw to one side than a
star—shaped or twist drill.

For polishing, two cotton cloth polishing wheels
have been found satisfactory. One is impregnated
with tripoli compound, used in buffing brass, and
the other with jeweler’s rouge, used in polishing
silver and gold. If polishing wheels are not avail-
able, use a piece of heavy flannel mounted on a
strip of wood. This may be held in the hand.
Impregnated with the same compounds and rubbed
briskly across the nut section, it will produce a
very good polish. It has been found that this
method of polishing gives better results than wax,
shellac, or any other filler.

Coconut shells may be readily cut by using a
hack saw, miter saw, or coping saw, and by
machine, with a band saw or jig saw. In prepar-
ing the coconut shell for polishing, it is unnecessary
to add oil from the nut meat. It may be highly
polished, and retains considerable strength even
when cut into very thin pieces. The outside fiber
of the coconut shell is removed with a rasp or
rough file. It is advisable to remove the inside
layer of the shell with a jackknife or gouge before
any extensive work is undertaken on the outside.

SEPTEMBER 1943

This is because the inside layer of the coconut shell
is rather brittle and is likely to Split off.

Sections of coconut shells may be sawed and
filed into various shapes, and are wholly suitable
for carving and engraving. The engraved portions
are sometimes filled with a wax-like substance
called “Monofil,” which comes in various colors.
In this way, the depressions in the piece are
brought to the surface level so that when the
article is polished, the engraving will show a color
outline and yet the surface will be perfectly smooth.

Various methods of attachment are used on the
different articles. Buttons, of course, are sewed
on in the ordinary manner. Round elastic, silk
cord, leather thongs, or sterling silver chain are
used to attach the nut sections when making brace-
lets, belts or necklaces. The use of sterling silver
chain in a necklace produces a really fine piece of
costume jewelry. For the pins or dress orna-
ments, a plastic-back bar pin is attached to the nut
section with “Duco” cement. If the surface to
which the pin is to be attached is rather smooth
or hollow, plastic wood may be used to fill in the

depressions, thus giving the pin back a larger
cementing surface.

To make salt and pepper shakers out of hazel-
nuts, pecans or Brazil nuts, an opening is formed
in the base by drilling a series of very small holes
in a circle about %” in diameter. This section is

 

Eh , K a .
- n‘ “a -i'"-w ‘ " warm/hum}? " ' were" * -' "J .-v ‘wum~ mum; emu-Lem: .' I

then broken out of the base, and after smoothing
the edges, a small cork is trimmed to form a nipple
which will protrude up into the nut. The cork
base, of course, should be proportionate and ‘suf—
ficiently wide to prevent top-heaviness. With a
pick or drill, most of the partitions and all of the
nut meat are removed from the nut. Holes are
then drilled in the top of this section——small holes
for the pepper shaker, and slightly larger holes for
the salt shaker. If desired, the base may be colored

330 “NUTS!” YOU TOO CAN MAKE THESE THINGS

by using a material called
“Plasta Rok.” It is soluble
in water, and dries with a
hard, dull finish. Of course,
in shakers of this type the
nuts are not polished.

A base for the shaker may
also be formed by cutting a cross section of the
end of a nut, flattening the top surface, and setting
a cork on this surface with “Duco” cement. In
either case, the cork should extend only a short
distance into the cavity of the nut, and no portion
of the cork nipple should show when the piece is
assembled.

Shakers made out of black walnuts and butter-
nuts require that a very small slice be cut off the
base end of the nut, and that the interior partitions
be drilled so that they may be broken out and all
nut meat and partitions removed. Smoothing the
inside may be done with a large burr. The base
should be made using the latter method described
above. File, sand, and polish as directed.

In making flower pots, a section is sliced off the
top of a coconut. After smoothing the nut, a clear
lacquer is used to simulate a porcelain finish. To
prevent moisture from spoiling the shell, the inside
of the nut is coated with hot paraffin, applied by
means of a stiff-bristled brush. A very satisfactory
base is made from a piece of cork or balsa wood,
hollowed somewhat to conform to the shape of the
nut. A touch of color may be added to the base by
using the “Plasta Rok.”

These examples present some
idea of the scope of nutcraft,
but the use of nuts and nut
shells in making useful and orna-
mental articles is limited only to
the ingenuity of the craftsman.

In the book entitled “Low-
Cost Crafts for Everyone,” pub-
lished by Greenberg, Publisher,
New York City, the author, H.
Atwood Reynolds, has devoted
a chapter to describing Nut
Crafts. Among these crafts are
buttons, ornaments and acces-
sories made from walnuts, but-
ternuts, horse chestnuts, acorns,
hickory nuts and hazelnuts.

Suggestions are also given
for making bird feeding stations

Every Sunday and Wednesday since Febru-
ary fhe author of Jrhis ar‘iicle has shared his
nu’rcraf’r hobby with fhe servicemen who
come fo the Audi’rorium Center in Chicago.
The proiecf has caughf fhe aHenfion of

many of the boys who do not care to
dance or parficipafe in ofher acfivifies.

 

and bird baths from coconuts,
“A bird feed station to hang
on a tree may be made from
a coconut. Cut the coconut
so that part of one side is
left. protruding to give the
birds a perch to stand on as

they stretch’their bills into the interior to draw
forth the morsels of food that have been placed
in it.

“Clean out the inside of the coconut and then
sandpaper the inside surface. The outer surface
may be left with its natural shaggy covering, or
may be sanded to a smooth finish. It may be she]-
lacked or left in its natural condition. F I

“To hang, bore a hole on either side of the coco-
nut in such relation that a wire bail may be in-
serted with ends twisted to' anchor it. Grain or
suet may be put in the station for the birds, and
then the house is ready for hanging:

“Fashioned similarly to the coconut bird feed
station, the bath will make an attractive ornament
for a tree, and yet will have utility as a pleasure
Spot for birds. Cut part of one side of your coco-
nut in such manner that a lower lip is left to pro-
trude, remembering that water must be retained in
the nut and that the depth of the water will depend
upon how far down you cut the coconut. Clean out
the coconut meat that lines the_ inner wall. With
wire bail fastened through two tiny holes bored
on either side of the nut, hang the bath in a
tree and then pour sufficient
water in it to entertain the birds.

“A trinket box made of coco-
nut is constructed simply by
cutting the t0p off in such a
manner as to provide a lid.
This may be large or small.
In making the cut, slant it
downward toward the inside so
that it will fit without slid-
ing off.

“Clean out the interior wall
of the nut and sand well to a
smooth finish. Shellac the in-
side and, if you wish, the out-
side as well. The latter should
be coated only after some of the
shaggy covering has been sanded
off. If you wish to ornament the
box, it will lend itself to paint
after sanding. Or you may carve
or burn designs in it.”

RECREATION

Why Archery? ..

Since bows and arrows are of woodl the
only steel being on the arrow tipI if
is probable. Mr. Berry points out. that
there will be no curtailment of archery
supplies during the war. This should
result in a further impetus fo the sport
along with the desire throughout the
entire counfry to keep physically fit.

’1 PREPOSTEROUS IDEA!” Robin Hood would
A'have snorted had he been told that his

favorite weapon would some day be used
by women to improve their posture and grace.

And this Sherwood Forest sport is increasing
in popularity among women. Why? Permit two
physical education instructors at Pasadena, Cali-
fornia, Junior College, Miss Irma Graham and
Miss Forrest Dutton, to answer this for you.

First of all, archery is good exercise. It builds
good posture as no other sport will. It develops
poise, control, coordination, concentration. The
huskiest girl and her frail classmate benefit equally.
Speaking of frailties, people in wheel chairs have
competed in and won archery tournaments! It
provides sound but not strenuous exercise for all
ages.

These Pasadena teachers should know whereof
they speak because they help teach 200 young
women twice a week to fiood targets with a rain
of steel-tipped arrows. How well this instruction
has been absorbed is brought out by the fact that
the Pasadena Junior College archery team has
ranked unusually high in the mouth-filling VVom-
en’s Intercollegiate Telegraphic Archery Tourna-
ments sponsored by the National Archery Asso—
ciation.

Pasadena has entered the tourney only two
years, competing against teams from about a hun-
dred colleges and universities throughout the
United States. In 1940 the Pasadenans took eighth
place, and last year climbed two notches to sixth.
In addition, the school deve10ped Marjorie Wil-
liamson, now a student at the University of Cali-
fornia at Los Angeles, who, as a junior collegienne,
tied for thirteenth place among women archers of
the United States.

Archery is not necessarily a sport for women
athletes. It is a sport for everybody, and, as has
been mentioned, for the frail as well as the hearty.

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

By GRAHAM G. BERRY

Here is what Pasadena Junior College co-eds
have to .say when asked why they enrolled in
archery classes. Most girls answered it was be-
cause they liked it or considered it the “most fas-
cinating” of the twenty—four physical education
courses offered at the junior college. Some had
taken it in junior high or high school and wanted
to continue the sport.

Tops in the most specific reason for liking it
was that it corrects posture. Several girls were
taking it to “cure” round shoulders. One girl
wanted to strengthen her shoulders so she could
play the violin better. The next most frequent
reason given was that the time of archery classes
fitted best into programs of classes. From this
group, the teachers know, will deve10p some t0p
archers who now are being exposed to the sport
for the first time.

Four answers tied for the next place: I. F emi-
nine curiosity about archery. 2. It is an outdoor
sport. 3. It is one of many sports girls want to
know something about. 4. Physical disabilities pre-
clude participating in more strenuous exercise.

(Continued on page 362)
331

Witches and "Punkin" Heads .  .

' UTU M N—and black cats,
A witches on broom—
sticks, ghosts, and
eerie spirits will be among
us again. Now’s the time to
begin planning for that Hal—
loween Party you’ve been
thinking of having—only
this year the festivities will
have an up-to—the—minute keynote with emphasis
on simple, easy—to—arrange decorations and re—
freshments.

You don’t have to buy scarce materials to make
“spooky” invitations. Just take old brown wrap-
ping paper or some discarded paper bags and cut
out invitations in the shape of autumn leaves.
With orange and black crayon write this mysteri—
ous message: “BwAre ! l—U R 2 AperE et ThUh
ShaK ov mR. aNd MrS. jONes, oCToBEr 31 et
6 O’cloK. KuM prEPaRed 4 eNYthiNg! l”

On the other side of the leaf you can ease your
friends’ minds by writing the verse shown in the
inset. At the bottom of the poem leave room to
write the name and address of the host and hostess.

Because this is a wartime Halloween Party, re—
member all decorations must be made as easily
and inexpensively as possible. Gather autumn
leaves of all hues from your garden and scatter
them abundantly around the rooms.

Cover a standing lamp with a sheet, for a very
realistic ghost, using sticks underneath for arms.
The light shining through the head, (make features
with charcoal) gives an unearthly effect. Cover
all light bulbs with masks, the more horrible, the
better, If you live in the country and cornstalks
are available, make ghosts, witches and scarecrows

of these, tying masks to broomsticks for the heads."

Spider webs of cord strung across the windows
will complete the eerie details.

Bright red apples can be suspended from lengths
of clothes line strung across the room in several
places. And it always helps to have a crackling
fire in the lireplace if possible.

Spider Web Treasure Hunt. Here’s a hilarious
way of getting the party started. Attach inexpen—
sive souvenirs ——maybe vegetables or fruits from
your victory garden—to the ends of balls of cord
(one for each guest) and hide them in various

332

It modern ghosts you've never seen.
Come to our house on Halloween—-
Cats screeching. skeletons creaking.

Ghosts roaming. witches groaning—
Be prepared: your secret's bared.
Won't you come and join the fun?

 

places. Take each ball of
cord separately, and weave
it in and out of the furni—
ture, across rooms, etc. The
cords should all cross and
recross each other, making
a real “spider web.” Ar—
range them so that the loose
ends are near the entrance
of the party room. Your guests will have trouble,
but fun, unraveling the web.

Are You Superstitions? Provide the guests with
plenty of paper and pencils so that they can write
down all the Halloween bad omens they can think
of. The one who prepares the longest list in a
given time wins and must read his list aloud.
Others may be asked to read superstitions not read
by the winner. Here are a few bad omens your
guests might include:

I. Don’t walk under a ladder. Extreme bad

luck is the penalty.

2. If you throw over the salt shaker, throw salt
over your shoulder to escape bad luck.

3. If you break a mirror, it signilies seven years
of bad luck.

4. If you sing before breakfast, you will cry
before supper.

5. It is bad luck to rock an empty chair.

6. If you put on any garment wrong side out,
it is bad luck to change.

7. If you tell a dream before breakfast, it will
come true.

8. Every bride should wear something old,
something new, something borrowed, some-
thing blue.

9. Don’t let a black cat cross your path. You
will have bad luck.

10. It is bad luck to raise an umbrella in the
house.

Where's My Spirit? With everyone bumping
into everyone else in this game, guests will get to
know each other quickly—and violently! As every-
body knows, the dead cannot rest until their
mortal bodies are joined with their immortal
spirits. In this game the mortals—all of them
famous men —- seek their spirits in the Valley of
the Dead. . '

Half the group are Mortals, half Spirits. The
- RECREATION

WITCHES AND “PUNKIN” HEADS . . . 333

Spirits, who cover themselves with sheets, go to
one end of the room, the Mortals to the other.

Each of the Mortals is given a name of a de-
parted spirit—General Washington, John Paul
Jones, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, Gen-
eral Grant. The Spirits are given corresponding
names. Then the Mortals go in search of their
Spirits. When they meet or bump into a Spirit they
shake hands quietly with him, 'give their name and
ask if he is their Spirit, If they meet the wrong
' one he groans loudly. If they meet their own
Spirit, he says, “Aye, Mortal.” The Spirit then re-
moves his shroud and both go their way in peace.

Apple Contest. Fresh fruit isn’t rationed and
you should be able to get all the apples you’ll need
for' this typical Halloween game. Divide the
guests into groups of four each. Give No. I in
each group an apple and a paring knife. No. I is
to peel the apple and pass it on to No. 2. No. 2
must quarter it, No, 3 core it and drop it into a
bowl of water. No. 4 must take it out of the
water and eat it. The first quartet finished wins.

Musical Race. Seat players in two rows about
ten feet apart. At both ends of each row place a
hollowed pumpkin or a basket draped in orange

and black crepe paper. An apple is placed in the
basket at one end of each line.

Number the players of each team and give each
the name of a well-known song with a patriotic

theme. One player of each team will thus have the
same song.

A pianist starts playing a song—or someone
may hum the tune loudly—and each of the two
players assigned that

song runs, as soon as he
recognizes it, to the
. pumpkin or basket at the
end of the line in which
the apple has been placed,
grabs it, runs to the
pumpkin or basket at the
opposite end of the line,
places the apple in it, and
returns to his seat. The
one seated first scores
one point for his team.
The team first scoring
eleven points wins.

A few song titles which
may be used are:

The Star—Spangled Banner
.Yankee Doodle

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

Anchors Aweigh

Caissons Song

When Johnny Comes Marching Home
America, the Beautiful

Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean

The Marines’ Hymn

Army Air Corps

Battle Hymn of the Republic

Pumpkin Victory Exchange. Seven orange-colored
cardboard pumpkins—you can cut them out your-
self—are needed for each guest. One letter of
V-I—C-T-O-R-Y should be printed on each pump—
kin. Shuffle them all together and deal the pumpkins
into as many piles of seven as there are guests.
Place each pile of seven in a separate envelope and
place the envelopes in a hollowed-out pumpkin.
Let each guest take one envelope. The object of
the game is to collect seven pumpkins that will
spell the word “victory.” To do this, each person
must exchange undesirable letters for others. Only
one letter may be traded at a time, and if a person
is asked for a letter he doesn’t have, he may not
be asked for another, The first perSOn to get the
complete word cries “Victory!”

Black Cat and Bat. Choose a Bat and a Black

Cat from among your guests. The other players
join hands to form a circle with the Bat in the
center and the Cat on the outside. The Cat
chases the Bat in and out of the circle, the mem—
bers of the circle favoring the latter and hindering
the former by raising or lowering their arms.
When the Bat is finally caught, two other players
become Bat and Cat.

Military Ghost. Here’s a new twist to an old
game. Players are seated in an informal circle.
The first player calls the
first letter of a word of
more than three letters
which he has in mind.
The second player thinks
of a word beginning with
that letter and adds the
second letter. The third
player adds the third let-
ter, and so on. Each
player must be very care-
ful that the letter he adds
does not complete aword.
If he does, he becomes a
half-ghost and anyone
who speaks to him also
becomes a half-ghost.

The next player then
starts another word. Any

Print by Gedge Harmon

334 WITCHES AND “PUNKIN” HEADS . . .

player whose mistakes make him a half-ghost twice
becomes a ghost. Anyone who speaks to a ghost
becomes a ghost. Ghosts are out of the game, but
remain in the circle and try to draw the players
into conversation with them.

A player must always have in mind a word of
more than three letters when he calls a letter.

- Frequently a player, in a tight spot and unable to

think of a word from the letter passed on to him,
will attempt to bluff and call a letter anyway. Any
player suspecting that this is the case may chal-
lenge another player to state the word he has in
mind. If he is unable to do so, he becomes a half-
ghost; if he does name a legitimate word, the
challenger becomes a half-ghost.

The trick here is that all words used in the
game must be of a military nature, Here are some
suggestions of words that may be used: soldier,
sailor, marine, MacArthur, Pershing, Lafayette.
Verdun, bomb, submarine, troop, regiment, in-
fantry, cavalry, Attu, battalion, rifle, grenade, tank,
Montgomery, Doolittle.

"Punkin" Head Race. A small pumpkin is placed
on a table at one end of the room. The pumpkin is
lifted from the table and carried by two players
who place their foreheads against it, and together
lift it in that way from the table. Hands may not
be used. If the pumpkin dr0ps to the door and the
couple can not retrieve it, they may receive 'help,
but are fined 50 points. Time is kept and the
couple accomplishing the feat in -the shortest
length of time wins. Each couple completing the
race receives 500 points. But remember that a
deduction of 50 points is made for each time they
receive help. If the party is large enough, provide

two pumpkins and make this a relay race. The
side finishing first wins. ' _

"Tell Me My Fortune." The future always re—
veals itself to the credulous on Halloween, The
hostess, dressed as a witch or an old gyp'sy can
concoct some really amusing fortunes with charmed

pumpkin seeds _which should be placed in an empty

pumpkin. Each guest seeking his fortune will come
to the witch and will be told to draw one of the
magic seeds from the pumpkin. The seeds, which
are dryed in advance of the party, have printed on
each in India ink one of the following symbols:

$—_wealth

¢——poverty

M.D.—will marry a doctor

VVings—will go in the air
corps or marry an aviator

"If a Goblin came a-hobblin'
What would you do?

I'd treat him like a personage——
And run l—wouldn't you 7"

Anchor—will go in the Navy or marry a sailor
Love Knot—a love affair

2—will marry twice

Ring—happy marriage

Pen—literary success

Button—bachelor

Thimble—old maid
Spade—will marry a farmer

Bobbing for Apples. No Halloween party is
complete without bobbing for apples. Instead of
placing the apples in tubs of water where the
splashing might damage polished floors or ruin
clothing, try suspending the apples on strings from
a line strung across the room. Each person stands
before an apple with his hands behind his back
and tries to eat the fruit. The apples will swing
back and forth as they are touched thus adding to
the difficulty of biting them. The person who
finishes his apple hrst wins a prize of a jelly or
candy apple.

' By this time, your guests will be ready and will-
ing to follow the “old witch” hostess into the
dining room where refreshments galore greet the
eye. The table can be covered with orange and
black crepe paper. Paper plates of the same colors
may be dressed up with cut-outs of witches, cats,
and pumpkins pasted on them. Napkins, cut from
the same crepe paper, will be in the shape of leaves
with the names of each guest written in orange or
black crayon. Real leaves from the garden should
be scattered here and there on the table.

Crowning point of the refreshment table will
be the centerpiece—~a huge pumpkin, hollowed out,
lined with waxed paper, and set on a mat of
autumn leaves. Fill the pumpkin with autumn
fruits and nuts. .

But now for the refreshments———and what a
tempting ,picture they present! First come the
good_old :standbys of apple cider and golden-brown
doughnuts.‘ They’re inviting, easy to prepare, and
won’t take precious ration points.

Then. thére are Black Cat Sandwiches which
are slices of white bread cut in small rounds and
covered.with cream cheese, This is topped with

" rounds of brown bread in which faces have been

cut, so that the‘Twhite cheese shows through.

For a novel Orange Face Salad, sc00p the in-
sides out of oranges, leaving just
“ the skin, and fill with salad. Stick
in cloves for eyes, nose, and
mouth. Fasten a slice of marsh-

(Continued on page 356)
RECREATION

What They Say About Recreation

ll AKE UP YOUR MIND once and for all that you
M can be happy and that you are going to be

happy. . . . Happiness is not a matter of
wealth or station. It is a matter of temperament
and will. . . . Take satisfaction in the goodness and

kindness that you see in pe0ple about you. Notice
the beauties of nature. Enjoy the flowers. Listen

to the birds, Look up at the sky and stars.”—Joy
Elmer ll/I organ.

“Now that our country is at war, the importance
of pure music and all the fine arts is much greater
than ever.” —Dr. William Lyon Phelps in The

Etude .Music ll-Iagazine.

“The ‘life more abundant’ can never be exclu-
sively the life of either artist, scientist or philoso-
pher. . . . It must include alike the art of beauti—
ful living, added to the science of true living, both
culminating in the phi1050phy of the good life.”—
From The Heart through Art.

“Too many pe0ple in America are lonesome.
Everyone who is in his right mind wants to belong
with other people, and if he doesn’t belong any—
where, he is unhappy.”-—Daoid C ushman C oyle in
America.

“Even now, in' the midst of war, we have not
visualized our children as our richest mine of
strength and security. Children everywhere will
have lost most; they will need new h0pe and new
understanding.”—Dr. George D. Stoddard.

“Recreation meets a great spiritual need in the

individual, and in meeting it helps to mould and -

build his tastes and interests.”—George S. Counts.

“There is no better way to train for the larger
reSponsibilities of citizenship than through par—
ticipation in c00perative, wholesome, worthwhile
recreational activities. Those who participate de-

velop greater appreciations of beauty standards
and skills.”-—James N. Rule.

“There is particularly urgent need for expand—
ing recreational, school and day care facilities for
the little children, but also necessary are additional
provisions for children after school closing hours

and during the long summer vacation.”—'Bess
Goodykoonte.

SEPTEMBER 1943

“To make the outdoor recreational resources of
America effectively available to the youth of
America is an effort we owe our young peOple.”—
The American Youth Commission in Youth and

the Future.

“Happiness and unhappiness have been little
studied by science, yet happiness is one of our
most cherished goals. As economic institutions are
the clue to our standard of living, so, perhaps, the
institution of the family is nearest that elusive
thing called happiness.”—From Review of Find—
ings, President’s Research Committee on Social

Trends.

“A man should hear a little music, read a little
poetry, and see a fine picture every day of his life,
in order that worldly cares may not obliterate the
sense of the beautiful which God has implanted in
the human soul.”—Goethe.

“Relaxation is one of the absolute necessities of
modern life if we are to have mental and spiritual
release and satisfaction.”—Edith M. Gates in The

l/Vomans Press.

“The very essence of democracy is the search
for new freedoms by thorough-going individualists
who realize there is sufficient advantage in living
together to be willing to impose on themselves

certain disciplines and reSponsibilities.” —Henry
A. Wallace in The Price of Freedom.

“Children bear the promise of a better world.
. . . Through play they learn what freedom means.”
—From Defense of Children Series No. 8. Chil—

dren’s Bureau.

“You can interrupt the improvement of a road
and ten _years later go on with it about where you
left off, but if you interrupt decent care for chil-
dren and ten years later begin again to feel respon—
sible for them, you can by no means begin where
you left off. You find them irreparably grown up,
and grown up wrong—~enemies and liabilities of
their communities rather than friends and assets.”

-—Dorothy C airfield Fisher.

“Let us get over the shame of being caught
idling, working in our gardens, reading a good
book, listening to or producing fine music, or
going fishing.”—R. Bruce Tom.

335

 

AAF Technical Training Command Photo

Servicemen gallan’rly welcoming Miami Beach junior hostesses to the Pier.
In a few short months the list of 400 girl volunteers ballooned to 4,000

So This ls Tropical Languorl

By KATHRYN C. HARWOOD

0w THE NORMAL LIFE of a small resort city
H of 30,000 people, drowsing under a tropical

Florida sun, was decisively changed over-
night, and how its citizens met this crisis is the
wartime saga of Miami Beach.

How an Association set about providing recrea—
tion for a few sailors from across Biscayne Bay,
and found itself host to a million servicemen in

less than a year, is part of the staggering trans— ‘

formation which faced this community.

How 300 volunteers increased their ranks to
3,000 in a few short months, and how a list of 400
junior hostesses ballooned to 4,000 is a part of
this amazing story of wartime civilian adjustment.

Just before the influx of the Army on the Beach,
a local group had formed itself into the Recreation
Pier Association. Its plans were comparatively
modest. The members would have gasped had they
known they were on the brink of operating
Florida’s largest servicemen’s center and one of
the largest in the United States. How could they
know that the Association would open seven ad—

336

ditional centers, five of them simultaneously with-
in a few months.

In the Spring of 1942, Miami Beach was begin—
ning to shutter its pink and white stucco houses,
furl its gaily—striped awnings, and board up its
luxury shops, hotels, and clubs for the summer.
The wealthy winter crowd was leaving the jewel—
box city and the sleepy summer was setting in.
\Vithout warning, citizens awoke one morning to
the sound of tramping feet. Tens of thousands of

‘ Air Force trainees were streaming into town. The

world's largest Technical Training Command
Hooded the streets and overflowed every available
Space. Clubs became mess halls.
turned into barracks. PXs and commissaries
squeezed into store rooms. Golf courses were
transformed into drill fields. Tralhc halted while
endless parades-of singing soldiers went by. Shop
windows were filled with military equipment, and
the bugler was “getting ’em up” at about the hour
when remaining resorters were just thinking of
going to bed. It the matter of servicemen, Miami
Beach had hit the jack-pot.

RECREATION

 

At ease! -
library whe

Hotels were i-

iers on leave relax in their own Pier
din' and 'ri’rin' are the order of the day

 

 

I

I“

Wi’rhou’r warning. the citizens of Miami Beach
awoke one morning to the sound of ’rramping
feet. The world's largest Technical Train-

ing Command had taken over the little iewel-
box city. Here is the amazing story of how
the local citizens met this war’rime crisis.

Had the Pier Association which was serving
these thousands not been founded along sound
lines, it could never have weathered the strain. If
the leaders had not been women of foresight and
strong purpose, the Association would have col-
lapsed of its own weight. Had this enormous com-
munity project not been based on the highest con—
ception of recreation, it would never have gained
the approval and support of Army, Navy, De-
fense Council, and its own City Fathers.

Ninety per cent of its Women’s Board was still
intact a year later. Those who withdrew did so
from necessity—because of illness, moving, or
other personal pressure. This Women’s Board has
directed and performed the actual work, backed
by 3. Men’s Board which has sat in an advisory
capacity.

The Association rapidly expanded with the ris—
ing tide of troops. Women who had never thought

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

On dechI—These sunning seamen have come from
Miami to spend the day at the servicemen's Pier

much about it before were suddenly conscious of a
fierce civic pride in handling this job of providing
healthy lounging places for the groups of uni-
formed men crowding the sidewalks. So keen
became this challenge that not until six months of
gruelling labor had elapsed did they reluctantly
hand over even a little of their backbreaking re—
sponsibility to a small professional staff. When
the massive proportions of the work necessitated
the help of a thousand volunteers a month, they
realized that the Association needed the stability
which only professionalism provides.

Although the leaders and the vast bulk of work—
ers are volunteer, they are not necessarily un-
skilled. Women are chosen for whatever experi—
ence or training they may have had; and those
with aptitudes along certain lines often develop
particular“ techniques. Whether their motive be
patriotic, intellectual, civic, or purely emotional,
they all feel an urge which keeps them steadfast to
a goal and minimizes the inevitable clash of per-
sonalities.

Some are serving their own sons by proxy;

still others are interested in the men objectively,

seeing a possibility of contributing to the mold of
the nation’s future. Because both the Colonel’s
Lady and Judy O’Grady are volunteers, there is
the inevitable minority working because it is “the
thing to do." Probably the greatest driving force

337

338 50 THIS IS TROPICAL LANGUOR!

of all is pride of town. This is Miami Beach’s job
and these are Miami Beach men and women doing
it, helped by Greater Miamians who comprise a
third of the volunteers.

The Pier Opens

April 15, 1942, had been set as opening day for
the Pier, first and largest of the Association’s cen-
ters. This city—owned pr0perty had been loaned for
the duration. Consisting of two barn-like build-
ings joined by an open deck, the structure pro—
jected almost a thousand feet into the Atlantic
from the southern tip of the Beach. It was clut-
tered with defunct city lampposts and assorted
mementoes of Minsky’s Burlesque which flourished
there in former years. Its roof leaked and its
plaster had seen better days.

Those original three hundred pairs of volunteer
hands had less than a month’s time in which to
raise funds and collect furnishings for this ugly,
cement behemoth which had nothing but its size
and its superb location to recommend it. Those
willing hands wore callouses and blisters in the
process, The monster’s appetite seemed insatiable.
Truck loads of bookcases, desks, checkerboards,
clocks and balogna-slicers were dumped at the en-
trance and swallowed. Tag Day and a benefit race
at Tropical Park were the opening money-raising
efforts. Newspapers, in banner headlines, called
for volunteers. Merchants cut prices and civic
clubs loaned pool tables and pianos. Secondhand
dealers’probed dusty corners for treasures. Noth—
ing that wasn’t nailed down was safe from quest-
ing workers !

Transporting this equipment, bought or whee—
dled, was a feat of ingenuity blithely required of a
committee which, one year later, was to report:
“We are, ‘Believe it or not, Mr. Ripley,’ one of
the busiest transfer companies, operating without
a license and with no overhead.”

From the outset the pattern of resort life com-
plicated this civic project. In wintertime, re-
sources of money and womanpower overflow the
community. But summer tells a different tale.
W ithin days the population boils down to less than
half. Army and Navy, however, were no respect-
ers of “the season.” Responsibility fell heaviest
on the community’s year—round population. Of
average means, pursuing normal, unspectacular
lives, these were the women who rolled up their
sleeves. They scrubbed, sewed, pinned, painted,
hammered and nailed. They were hot, they were
tired, but they were determined. A year later they

had the startling? experience of reading about

themselves in an Associated Press story as “the

'  0 '
diamond-studded womengrun the Pier! ’

“Diamond-Studded” Help a?

Luckily, through the bustling months that fol-
lowed the Pier’s opening, there were plenty of the
“diamond-studded” winter crowd to help as well.
The Association kept pace with sweeping Army
expansion. One by one seven branches were
Opened, dotted northward from the Pier eight
miles, ending in the swank Surf Club at Ninety-
first Street and the ocean, They vary in type from
a small Adirondack-style lodge with wood—paneled
walls, rustic balcony and moose head over the
doorway, to a converted cocktail bar, mirrored and
spacious. They range from the Pier which has
accommodated 7,000 servicemen in one evening, to
a four-room cottage at the edge of Biscayne Bay
with pink hibiscus at the window ledge.

The same policies govern the Pier and its
branches; the same philosophy applies to all. This
is, to put it simply, refreshment of body, mind and
spirit. The Association is nonsectarian, its sole
object being to provide wholesome leisure to ser-
vicemen in all branches of the armed forces sta-
tioned in this area. .

As nearly as possible,-a civilian atmosphere is
the aim of Pier and branches, offering the uni—
formed man a temporary release from military
regimentation. Officers are excluded except as
guests on special occasions so that men may not
eternally be snapping to attention. Although a
college register is kept for their convenience, men
are not required to register for admittance. Volun-
teers, on the other hand, from president down, sign
in and out, thus keeping track of hours and facili-
tating the receiving of messages. Civilian visitors
are admitted only from ten to noon daily, and to the
Pier on Wednesday nights (passes secured from
Army intelligence) to watch the weekly soldier
broadcast, CONTACT, over VVKAT. An MP on
duty at an inside gate is the eye of the needle
through which every Pier visitor is threaded.

At the end of the first six months of Operation,
with the only paid personnel laborers and a city-
employed maintenance man, the Miami Junior
League made a sizeable contribution which, added
to another donation, made it possible to secure a
professional director. Later a secretary and two
canteen professionals were added to the staff. This
staff is being enlarged as rapidly as suitable-people
can be found.

RECREATION

50 THIS IS TROPICAL LANGUOR.’ 339

On Lincoln Road, the heart of the Beach, the
Association has Opened a volunteer placement of-
fice for which the space was donated. Here poten-
tial workers pop in and out to offer their serviCes
and to ask questions. Each volunteer fills out an
application card, stating the amount of time she (or
sometimes he) can give, at which Pier Center she
chooses to serve, and the type of work she prefers.
This card is then referred to the appropriate chair—
man who assigns her to a designated post. The
volunteer has now become a Pier apprentice and
is eligible to wear an identifying badge. When she
has served six supervised periods she has a second
interview with the volunteer placement committee
and is enrolled as a regular Pier worker. Hours
of apprenticeship count toward earning the pin
which she is entitled to wear when she has served
a minimum of seventy-five hours.

Badges and Pelicans

Badges of Pier Association workers are banner-
shaped pins of white enamel on silver. Across the
'tOp is a red, white and blue
bar, and in the center the of-
ficial emblem—a pelican on a
square field of red with the

"Anything goes" —even the kibitzer—
in the game room where servicemen con-
centrate on the finer points of bridge,
checkers. chess. gin rummy. or parchesi

initials S P ( Servicemen’s Pier) in blue. InSpira—
tion for the emblem came from the long, waving
lines of pelicans sailing over the Pier, sometimes
coasting down to splash landings at the Pier’s end,
there to sit on the waves, solemnly sighting down
their long bills for fish. This emblem appears on
stationery, banners, stickers for automobile doors
~—-in fact, on any object the women can find an
excuse to mark with a rubber stamp.

Dade County, aware that the Association would
entertain over a million men its first year and
probably twice that many its second, assumed its
share of community reSponsibility by including the
project as a “far Chest agency. Through facilities
of the Federal Security and Federal Works Agen-
cies, plus city participation, funds were granted for
remodeling and renovating the Pier. This is in
line with present government policy of remodel—
ing, when possible, existing structures rather than
of building new at greater expense and consequent
waste of vital materials, This face-lifting job was
completed in July. To the men it meant brighter,
more attractive surroundings,
added comfort, additional fa-
cilities for enjoyment. To the
volunteers it meant less back-

 

SEPTEMBER 1943

340 50 THIS IS TROPICAL LANGUOR!

breaking labor, no dodging of leaks in wet weather,
pleasant rooms full of light and air in place of bleak
walls and dark cubbyholes. The background, as
well as the volunteers, now dispenses charm and
gaiety.

Long skilled at entertaining people away from
home, the Pier women did not make the mistake
of setting up an arbitrary program of recreation. It
developed from the requests of servicemen them—
selves until it grew into a many—branched plan of
activities. No one thought up something that was
“good” for the men and attempted to foist it on
them. By placing a suggestion box where they
could anonymously drop in their written likes and
dislikes, they were encouraged to propose their
own entertainment. Oddly enough, the resulting
program was of a more serious nature than the
women expected. Aside from wadded paper pel-

lets which rattled in the box like popcorn and.

which, unrolled, read: “Girls, more girls,”
there were requests for symphonic vic-
trola records, drawing materials, Spanish
conversation, current events groups,
stories of Seminoles, alligators and early
boom days, and one forlorn wish for some
“good Greek home cooking.”

Perplexed boys, corrugating their brows
over square root problems, started mathe—
matics classes. These are taught by high school
teachers and are in session nightly in the library,
often with the SRO sign out. Spanish conversation
became a glamor class with University of Miami
girls from Spanish—speaking countries as school-
marms. The University’s School of Music sched-
ules visiting and local musicians for concerts at the
Pier or one of the branches each Sunday afternoon.

More Fun

“I’d like to learn chess” turned up so often in
the suggestion box that two experts were given
sway in a small room at the Pier. Here Harvard
and Yale move their pawns against Brooklyn and
Texas. Bridge, parchesi and gin rummy have their
devotees in all the centers. Jig—saw puzzles not
finished one night are left on the tables to be
worked on the next. The “plick—plock” of table
tennis seems never to cease, while Cow Cow
Boogie on innumerable pianos attracts iron—lunged
soldiers like bees around a honey pot. It takes an
armor—plated upright to withstand the boogie-
woogie onslaughts, but some of the centers have
been loaned concert grands which magnetically
draw musicians from the crowds of soldiers and

UNITED
STATES

 

sailors, Concert artists formerly of the Metropoli—
tan have sat for hours at these ivories. Volunteers
pause quietly to listen. Servicemen look up from
their letter writing, or put down their reading to
stare into space, dreaming.

For the floor shows which night clubs take turns
in sending to the Pier, servicemen stamp, whistle
and cheer; but they love to get up their own shows
too, clowning their own military tribulations.
Dolled up as chorus girls, they clump across the
stage in the gargantuan strides of their G. 1. shoes.

Pier and branches have discovered that art is a
spectator Sport as well as a creative outlet. Paper
and crayons are furnished men who sit all evening
sketching—oblivious to everythingH—adinired by a
charmed circle of kibitzing jeeps. Occasionally a
soldier, sailor, coastguardsman, merchant seaman,
or even hostess occupies the model’s stool and
thereafter gazes from the walls in twenty different
versions, Quick-sketch artists draw like-
nesses of servicemen, presenting them
with the results which they invariably
send back to their homes or their girl
friends. Some airplane modeling is done,
and sculpture is a new art departure. An
exhibition of servicemen’s art is in the off-
ing. With the completion of the Pier’s
renovation more and more accent will be
placed on arts and crafts. '

Dancing is jam on the serviceman's bread. Give
him the jam and he’ll even do without the' bread.
Girls come from miles around for the Pier’s nightly
dances. On moonlight nights you can hardly wrig-
gle your way through dancing couples on the wide,
open deck. Biweekly dances in other sections of
the Beach are planned too.

Junior hostesses, girls eighteen or over, add
verve and gaiety to all activities, In bright dresses,
gardenias tucked in their pompadours, they chatter
together as clusters of them arrive during the early
evening hours. Many fill regular jobs all day but
they dance just the same, coming back night after
night. Hopelessly outnumbered by servicemen,
their dancing evening, which ends with the II :00
P. M. closing hour, is nothing short of an athletic
workout. The men elect a “Miss Keep ’Em F ly-
ing” once a month, and the three girls with the
month’s highest attendance record receive en-
graved silver anklets.

For Cooling Off
The unique joy of the Pier is its wide-sloping
beach, perfect for bathing. Shower, dressing rooms,

RECREATION

50 THIS IS TROPICAL LANGUOR! 341

and lock-box facilities are free
to any serviceman. He may
bring his own swim trunks or
he may rent a pair from the
Swimming Department for
ten cents. A towel is live
cents, About ten thousand
swimmers used this service
the first year; these hgures are now swelling
enormously. Shaving kit, shoe-shine outfit and
sewing basket are other conveniences. Pressing
rooms are certainly an important part of the pro-
gram. Iron and boards are scarcely allowed to
cool off so much are they in demand—especially
right before pay day.

Sailors are the Pier’s most frequent daytime
visitors, especially men from the sub-chaser school
in Miami. Several hundred strong they march
across the causeway, swarming into the Pier with
yelps of joy and a mascot dog bounding at their
heels.

Men are already congregated at the gate waiting
to get in when the Pier opens Sundays at 9:00
A. M. Incidentally, there is one volunteer who has
never missed her nine o’clock Sunday morning
post since the Pier opened over a year ago! Men
amuse themselves the whole day, often trying their
luck at hshing. As many as 200 have tossed lines
from the Pier’s end at one time, yanking from the
depths all shapes and sizes of fish from shark to
snapper, from octopus to crawtish. A nickel buys
bait, and tackle is provided with the cooperation
of the Army and Navy Fishing Committee. One
rapturous fisherman brought his catch proudly to
the canteen. Could they cook it for him? Out
came the grease and skillet!

For these day—long visitors the Association puts
on a free Sunday afternoon buffet, simple but ade—
quate. Snacks for both volunteers and men may
be purchased from the canteen. Miami Beach has
few transient servicemen, and most men are within
walking distance of their mess, so canteens cater to
appetite and not hunger. Cool drinks made from
Florida limes, and the inevitable colas are best
sellers.

Anything with a tropical flavor—be it fish, fruit
or flower—fis a constant source of wonder to ser-
vicemen who come to Miami Beach from the
farthest corners of the country. The decorating
committee uses varieties of native specimens in
color combinations right out of Mexico. Scarlet
Carissa plums, brilliant mangoes, russet sausages,
yellow fruit and purple bloom of the banana plant

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

Boys from England. Canada. Scotland.
New Zealand' Czechoslovakia. France.
China. Russia. Iceland. and Guadalcanal
have had a taste of home in America.
Language is a barrier quickly leapt
when there is music and friendliness.

 

fill split wood baskets, and
clusters of misty green sea.
grapes spill over the sides.
Variety is limitless. The ex-
otic color and abandon of a
Carmen Miranda headdress
effect is followed by the
breath-taking delicacy of a
spray of pale pink franji-pani. Men soak up the
atmosphere, stop to admire, then question. Scarcely
a garden is safe from the committee, which by now
has all the unusual blossoms of Dade County
spotted and ticketed. When the coconut in its
native sheath captured the fancy of the men as the
ideal memento to mail back home, the women
found themselves in the coconut business. In a
year’s time 3,000 coconuts were snatched from
neighbor’s yards, and went traveling from the
various Pier centers.

Not all entertaining of servicemen is done at the
Pier and branches. A home hospitality committee
secures invitations for dinners, dances, and garden
parties in private homes. As many as 898 men
have been placed in one month, entailing colossal
preparation because the committee is careful to
bring congenial hosts and guests together. The
committee receives an avalanche of thank-you let-
ters. Some of these letters come from RAF fliers
who have shared the Pier Association’s hospitality
or Jugo-Slavians who write back to say: “We will
tell of you often in our country.” Boys from all
over the world have enjoyed Miami Beach hos-
pitality. Boys from England, Canada. Scotland,
New Zealand, Czechoslovakia, France, China,
Russia, Iceland, and Guadalcanal have had a taste
of home in America. Language is a barrier quickly
leapt when there is music and friendliness.

Purpose Behind Activity

Visitors to the Pier or its branches are at first
struck by the noise and the apparently aimless
churning of the crowds. Yet there is no real con-
fusion. There is purpose behind every activity;
there is plan in every form of diversion. The
majority of visiting servicemen are raw recruits,
although to many uniformed visitors the thunder

of guns and the explosions of torpedoed ships are
recent experiences. According to the needs and
normal tastes of all types of men, the Association

tries to provide a background that best furnishes
the release from strain each man craves. For some

men, dancing, singing, girls, and merriment provide
(Continued on page 359)

A Simple Question . . . and a Simple Answer

T he QUESTION before

us concerns the

manner in which
the community facilities
and services within
housing projects should
be administered. To my
mind this is a simple
question, and deserves a simple answer. It is both
the duty and the obligation of the municipality to
make adequate provision for the health, welfare
and recreational needs of the tenants of housing
projects, and upon the same basis as such services
are extended to its other citizens. Further, it is
my judgment that the municipality should assume
the responsibility for managing and operating the
community facilities within housing developments,
should encourage their use by residents and non-
residents alike, and should assume whatever finan—
cial burden cannot be met by the Housing Au-
thority itself.

Since September I942 we have been engaged in
Pittsburgh in an interesting program mutually
agreed upon by the Pittsburgh Housing Authority
and the Bureau of Recreation of the City of Pitts-
burgh—an arrangement which may throw some
light on the practical problems involved in mu-
nicipal operation of community facilities within
housing projects. A survey of the recreational
needs of the Hazelwood District of the city, of
which the Glen-Hazel Heights War Housing Pro-
ject, serving 999 families, is an important part, was
made by a representative committee of the Feder-
ation of Social Agencies.

Upon the completion of this study the city of
Pittsburgh agreed to assume responsibility for the
management of the community facilities within the
. housing site, subject to general agreement on two
conditions: (I) that the Pittsburgh Housing Au—
thority agree to provide all maintenance of the
community building and the outdoor play areas,
and to furnish all equipment, supplies and ma-
terials necessary for the community program; and
(2) that any other agency, public or private, de-
siring to serve the leisure-time interests of the
residents of the project be required to work under
the general management of the Community Center

Director assigned by the city. All parties agreed
to these terms.

342

By HOMER C. WADSWORTH

Superintendent of Recreation
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

How should community services within
housing projects be administered?

The city of Pittsburgh
furnishes two qualified
recreation leaders full
time in addition to the
Community Center Di—.
rector; two part-time
specialists for an aver-
age of fifteen hours per
week; and the services of its supervisory staff in
the Bureau of Recreation. Several part-time work-
ers are supported by private agencies, such as the
Y.M.C.A., the Y.W.C.A., and the settlement
houses. The Board of Education assigns several
teachers for evening classes in shopwork, sewing,
and adult education. A library now,0perates in
the community building as a branch of the city-
wide system.

These professional workers are supplemented
by a large corps of volunteers recruited through
the Tenants Council, the Community Council of
the district, and the Officepf Civilian Defense.
The volunteer group has been given a training

course by the Community Center Director and his
staff.

Early in the development of this program a
Recreation Committee was formed, the members
being drawn from both the Tenants Council and
the Community Council of the Hazelwood Dis-
trict, in order that residents and nonresidents
alike might share with the staff in the task of
forming general policies and in planning program
activities, The Community Center Director has
consulted the Project Manager frequently on all
policy matters, and has had his valuable assistance
in working with the Tenant’s Council.

Strenuous efforts were made from the very be—
ginning to close the gap between the new tenants
of the housing project and the neighbors living in
the adjoining community. This was made con-
siderably easier than it otherwise would have been
by the presence of a recreation staff furnished by
the city and at city expense to coordinate the pro-
gram and to conduct many of the activities.

The program itself has been of considerable
scope. A nursery school is now in Operation. Club
organizations of all kinds are flourishing. Enter-
tainments, including movies, are promoted. An
eye is kept upon the development of the protective

RECREATION

A SIMPLE QUESTION . . . AND A SIMPLE ANSWER 343

services of Civilian Defense, and a good deal of
voluntary assistance has been secured from the
men and women engaged in these important tasks.
Hobby groups, handcraft and shopwork have their
part in the program. Dramatic productions are
given at regular intervals. A community news-
paper, published of, by, and for the readers, has
come regularly from the mimeograph. Many have
participated in the city-wide activities and or—
ganized leagues sponsored by the city Bureau of
Recreation. For the most part the problem has
not been so much one of promoting interest in
such activities, but in finding time, space and lead-
ership to supply the demand.

Judging from our experience at the Glen-Hazel
Heights War Housing Project, and at other hous—
ing projects in the Pittsburgh Area, I believe that
the case for municipal operation of community
facilities within housing developments can be
stated quite succinctly as follows :

(I) Leisure-time services are a legitimate and
important function of municipal government, Peo-
ple have leisure time and are willing to pay
through taxation for purchase, development, and
operation of facilities for general "use.

(2) The community facilities within housing
projects should be operated by the municipalities
in the public interest in order that these facilities
may be fully available to the general public and
that a desirable relationship between residents and
nonresidents may be established. The success of
this task will undoubtedly have an important in-
fluence in maintaining public support for future
ventures in the housing field.

( 3) It is quite important that facilities within
housing projects be designed in a way that will
permit full use with a minimum amount of super-
vision. It is also important that the larger com-
munity be kept in mind in choosing a site for a
community building, for otherwise no amount of
supervision or organization will result in the use
of the building by nonresidents.

(4) The emphasis in community programs
should be placed on mass activities, coupled with
special interest classes in order that due attention
may be given to the individual.

I am aware of some of the practical objections
which may be raised against the viewpoint which
I have just stated. Many local communities, par-
ticularly in those industrial areas which have been.

SEPTEMBER 1943

greatly expanded by the war effort, cannot afford
to underwrite the cost of such programs within
housing projects. The immediate answer to this
problem is Federal subsidy to the local community
under the terms of the Lanham Act if anyone can
find a way to crack the iron gates which apparently
shackle this money in the Federal Treasury, and
prevent' its use for the purposes intended. From a
long range point of view this problem raises more
serious matters which must be dealt with honestly
and realistically if the housing movement and the
community services program are to make any
further progress.

In my own city it is evident to most citizens
that the tax base is crumbling, that the physical
boundaries of the city as now recorded on the
statute books are a fiction, and that the health,
welfare and recreation services rendered citizens
who live outside the city proper, particularly in the
industrial towns, is almost negligible.

Within the past ten years the city of Pittsburgh
has lost $180,000,000 in assessed valuations. Its
operating budget is $5,000,000 less than it was in
1931, in spite of the great increase in public facili-
ties and services which have been stimulated by
the various'Federal programs since 1933. These
are facts which can be duplicated in most of the
large cities of the country. They point to a rather
evident conclusion that the forces of the housing
movement and the recreation movement must be
directed toward the reorganization of local gov-
ernment, toward the revamping of the tax struc-
ture, and toward the discovery of ways of giving
local governments greater freedom if the required
redevelopment of large areas of our cities which
are crumbling is to be accomplished.

The material which is presented here was taken
from an address given by Mr. Wadsworth at a
meeting held in New York City on May 20th. For
further testimony regarding the importance of co-‘
operative working relationships between municipal

. recreation departments and housing developments

we refer our readers to an article entitled “Public
Housing Brings a New Era in Recreation.” In this
article, which appeared in the March, 1943, issue
of RECREATION, \Villiam Frederickson tells of the
plan of cooperation developed between the Los
Angeles Playground and Recreation Department
and the Los Angeles City Housing Authority.

"Play with a Purpose"

not a new one, but The

Play Clubs of Chicago,
many leaders in the recreation
field believe, is a pioneer in
the type of work it is doing
with boys and girls. Estab-
lished in the depression year of 1930 by Preston
Zimmerman, a graduate law student, the organi-
zation is still functioning successfully.

THE PLAY SCHOOL idea is

There are many reasons for its success, chief
among them being that “Zimmie,” as he is known
to the children, has honestly endeavored, through
his policies and the guidance he gives each mem-
ber of his staff, to help the individual boy and girl
in making social adjustments to group play and
group life.

The fact that the children come from “more af-
fluent sections” than the neighborhoods where live
most of the children who attend the public play-
grounds does not mean that they are perfectly
adjusted or that, because they have all money can
buy, they have everything. On the contrary, many
of these children are more self-centered, more self-
ish, and face just as many problems in building up
confidence in groups of children of their own age,
in learning to play fair, and in developing consid-
eration for others. I have worked with children of
low income groups and I know that poverty, in
itself, teaches many lessons. It is important, how—
ever, not to lose sight of the benefits gained by
society in helping boys and girls from more privi-
leged homes, who in later years will frequently be
in a position to do much for society and will, if
true consideration for others is learned early in life.

Play Clubs of Chicago
functions the year round, the
programs being conducted
after school and on Satur-
days during the school term,
and full time in the sum-
mer. The immediate areas
served are the Hyde Park
District, South Shore, and
Beverly Hills. The Hyde
Park and South Shore areas
are largely apartments and
hotels. In such sections of

344

By VIRGINIA MCCARTNEY

IIPlay with a Purpose" is the motto
of a privately promoted organization
in Chicago which provides play op-
portunities for children on a fee basis.

"Privately promoted play clubs are con-
ducted on a fee basis and located largely
in more affluent sections of the city, pro-
viding a wide range of recreational and
educational activites for boys and girls
from four to fourteen years of age."

Thus the I942 Report of the Chicago Rec-
reation Commission calls attention to the
activities of The Play Clubs of ChicagoI
whose objectivesl program' and methods of
operation are described by Mrs. McCartney.
Counselor to the Clubs and teacher at
the Hyde Parlt School for Little Children.

large cities there is a special
recreation problem for two
reasons — limited play space
and lack of playmates. Play
Clubs brings both to the often
unchildlike life of these chil-
dren. They are called for, either
at school or at their residence, and taken home in
Ford station wagons. The whole city of Chicago,
with its swimming pools, ice skating areas, beaches,
parks, museums, and The Play Club Headquarters,
is their playground.

“Play with a Purpose” is the motto of Play
Clubs and it does not end in being printed on the
office stationery. Play Club counselors are more
than physical directors, for while they must be
capable of teaching all the sports, more emphasis
is placed on the social development of the child,
using activities as a means to this end. Activities
are judged from a long-range view, and programs
are not set up as methods of amusement, but rather
as they will assist the child in making happy ad-
justments in school and home, camp and com-
munity.

All Play Club counselors are personally selected
by the director, and during the apprentice period
he works with them and supervises all groups.
The staff comes from Chicago Theological Semin-
ary, The University of Chicago, George Williams
College, and the public school playgrounds. All
applicants must be qualified to give good technical
instruction in games and sports, must have the
ability to carry through a balanced program, to
make reports on physical and social progress of
the child, to deal calmly with emergencies as well

as with the everyday prob-
lems.

Each counselor plans his
or her program, keeping in
mind the fact that while it
must be varied it must also
be flexible enough to allow
for changes due to disinter~
est, fatigue, and the ever
constant variable, the
weather. Programs include
every worth-while non-com-
mercial activity in the city.

RECREATION

“PLAY WITH A PURPOSE” 345

An occasional play
at Goodman Thea-
ter of the Art In-
stitute of Chicago
is perhaps the only
exception to the
rule that commer-
cial recreation fa—
cilities are not to
be used.

One of the fa-
vorite activities of
Play Club boys
and girls is visit—
ing the fascinating
Museum of Sci—
ence and Industry,
where they can
see everything
from how coal is
actually mined to
real termites
lunching on a tree trunk. Here, among other
things, they can go through a whispering gallery,
hear how their voices sound on the telephone, see
metal poured, or get in and work the controls of a
huge locomotive. It is a wonderland for boys and

girls of any age.

Both ice skating and roller skating are popular,

and coasting and tobogganing have their share of
votes. Hiking along trails in the parks and along
the lake is fun especially if the children take along
food for the birds and squirrels. Hunting for shells
on the beach is fun, too, and so is building whole
cities in the sand, although the girls prefer shell
hunting as they can make necklaces and bracelets
of them later. watching the tigers and lions eat
their dinner fills an exciting hour at the Zoo, and
'a trip to Field Museum or Shedd Aquarium is
greeted with enthusiasm.

Games form a large part of the fun of Play
Clubs and there are many old favorites that the
children have loved through the years. Many of
them are peculiar to Play Clubs. For instance,

how many of you know how to play “Kick the
Can,” “Chinese Over the Wall,” “Chasey,” “Steal

the Bacon,” “Touch It,” “Higher Than the
Ground,” or “Poor Pussy”?

In storytelling Play Clubs claims a distinction
in that the director writes his own stories. The
same characters always turn up in the most un-
believable places; Skinny, a small candle, and
Fatty, a balloon, real little people whom “Zimmie”

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

Courtesy Indianapolis Park Department

contrives to get into much mischief and countless
exciting situations. For Skinny and Fatty, you see,
live at Mary’s and Phil’s, both Play Clubbers.
Counselors are urged to write their own Skinny
and Fatty stories, but none can equal “Zinynie’s”
skill or bring quite the delight to the children in
their telling.

To teach every child to swim is part of the Play
Club plan. In the summer season many indoor
pools are rented to teach swimming, and toward
the end of the season parents attend meets where
they see their Johnny or Jane swim, dive, perhaps
just splash happily in the water. Overcoming fear
of the water is the problem in teaching swimming,
and there are very few in the group of three hun-
dred who will not go into the water. To see a
large group of live and six year olds really swim-
ming is a delightful spectacle.

Nature study, handcraft, boxing, baseball, ten—
nis, wrestling, and horseback riding round out the
activities.

Character building through play is an integral
part of the program. It can be said that Play
Clubs centers around this one objective, although
the health and safety of the child are of great
importance. The director asks of parents what
they want accomplished for their child, if there
are any special problems, and in so far as this is
possible without hindering or holding back the

(Continued on page 354)

nu. “av—n—u-

Camping with Crippled -Children

 

By MARY E. CHURCH

Executive Secretary

Maryland League tor Crippled Children

. -
’1 CAMP GREENTOP” IS a magic name to more

than 400 crippled children in Baltimore and

rural Maryland. It stands for that adven-
ture often thought beyond the reach of a handi-
capped child. It stands for that joy which comes
from the disco very of the wonders of nature, denied
to the city’s poor who live in a distorted environ-
ment. It stands for that thrill coming from the
flame of the council lire, a symbol of camp com-
munal fellowship, a symbol of reverence to our
Creator. It stands for health regained in the great

wide open, as well as the chance for character de-.

velopment through new wholesome experience.
It all started in the summer of 1937 when the
Maryland League for Crippled Children, after
years of study, was suddenly offered the use of a
complete camp, beautifully situated in the moun-
tains of central Maryland. The camp site com-
prised thirty-live acres, but
many more adjacent acres
for picnicking, over-night
camping, nature trails, af-
forded endless experiences.
This was the property of
the National Park Service
made available to qualified

346

I'ln every normal child is a powerful desiré
to discover the secrets of his own world.
Crippled children living in overcrowded
city areas have seldom been privileged to
build character in nature's workshop, For
them out-ot-door recreation is a physical.
mental and spiritual adventureI and around
these three a camp program is created."

agencies dealing with un-
derprivileged children.
The camp accommodated
ninety-six children—
forty-eight girls ,and
forty~eight boys—twenty-
four counselors, and an
administrative staff con-
sisting of director, assist-
ant director for girls, as-
sistant director for boys,
resident physician, nurse,
physiotherapist, dietitian,
and kitchen staE. Here
our camp program began
and continued for live
years until the War De-
partment took over that site as an important war
project area. However, the National Park Ser-
vice allowed us the use of another camp suitable
for the League’s program.

Selection of Campers

Physically handicapped children are the only
ones considered for camp. Two—thirds of the chil-
dren are from Baltimore and one-third from rural
areas of Maryland. Enrollment is not entirely
limited to Maryland children, however, and special
cases from the District of Columbia and adjacent
areas have been accepted.

The program is for underprivileged children,
but pay cases may be accepted. Families are ex-
pected to make what financial contribution they
can afford for their child’s maintenance at camp.

Campers are recommended or approved by an
orthopedic surgeon. All orthopedists in Maryland
are members of the League’s Medical Advisory
Committee.

In selecting children for camp, emphasis is
placed on the fact that not every crippled child is
considered for this camp. Many such children can
and should go to camps de-
signed for the normal child,
according to the long-pur-
sued philosophy of The
Maryland League for Crip-
pled Children—that every
effort should be made to de-
velop the crippled child to

RECREATION

CAMPING WITH CRIPPLED CHILDREN . 347

take his place in the normal and social scheme.

A camper must be able to walk from his cabin
to the central unit, the greatest distance being
about 600 feet. A camper wearing braces and
using crutches can easily accomplish this 'when
allowance is made for slowness. The campers
range in age from seven to eighteen years of age.
On the principle that children would derive little
benefit from short camp periods, the League takes
campers for the entire camp period of eight weeks.

A review of the causes of the campers’ disabili-
ties for the last six years, shows that poliomyelitis
is responsible in thirty-two per cent of the cases.
Cerebral palsy, tuberculosis
of the bone, traumatic de-
formities, congenital defor- I
mities, osteomyelitis, and
miscellaneous causes are
next in order of frequency.
Some children who need a
minimum amount of physio-
therapy, or who merely need
the protection of restricted
activity, are chosen because
of their social needs.

These needs are deter-
mined by the social service
workers on the staff of the
Maryland League of Crip-
pled Children, who know
through their constant super-
vision of the homes the
family limitations and the
lack of understanding on the
part of some parents.

Staff and Staff Training

Good leadership in camp-
ing must be found not only
in the director, but in every
member of the staff. Quali-
ties of successful leadership
of greatest importance are
responsibility, mature judg-
ment, and emotional matur-
ity. Leaders and counselors

These young craftsmen may
develop a life's vocation
out of a pleasant hobby

SEPTEMBER 1943

are expected to be mature adults capable of man-
aging their own lives before they try to handle the
problems of others.

The director of Camp Greentop has been with
the camp since its inception and now has a total of
twenty—seven years of camp experience to his
credit. He is a teacher of physical education in a
boys’ high school. The assistant director for boys
is vice-principal of a grade school and has had
thirteen years of experience in camping, six of
which have been at Greentop. The assistant di-
rector for girls also is a teacher of physical edu-
cation in high school and has a total of nine years

\r

 

348 CAMPING WITH CRIPPLED CHILDREN

camping experience, six of them at Greentop.

Senior counselors are chosen for their ability as
counselors in arts and crafts, nature lore, recrea—
tion, music, and for their general experience in
leadership. No one under twenty~one is consid-
ered as a senior staff member, and the average age
has been twenty—five. The junior staff consists of
college and high school students with special lead—
ership ability. Each junior is assigned as assistant
to a senior counselor.

Applicants who are accepted are notified to re~
port for a training class, which consists of four
lectures covering camp organization, camp peda-
gogy, camp program, and medical factors to be
considered.

A program of in—service training is a part of the
camp policy. It is carried out by means of frequent
professional meetings of the entire
staff, meetings of sections of the

staff, and individual conferences of . D 

staff members and directors. (1?
Program '

Confronting the staff is the fact
that these campers are physically
handicapped children, some of whom
have had extended periods of hos—
pitalization, or come from homes
where they are either over~protected
or are subjected to distressing en-
vironments. Again, the crippled
child is blocked in his recreation
needs in his own neighborhood. This child wants
not only to belong to the neighborhood gangs, but
to participate in the social life of a child. The
philosophy of the camp is to allow children to
develop freely under new leadership and along
new lines in the camp environment.

The most valuable parts of the program are
those which have the greatest camper participa~
tion. Campers originate the activity, plan its exe-
cution, and carry it through to a successful con-
clusion with staff help kept to a minimum or
dispensed with altogether.

After rising bell at seven o’clock, breakfast at
eight o’clock, cabin clean~up, and so forth, the
morning hours are free for group activities. Each
camper before coming to camp is graded by his
own orthopedist, who designates activities for him,
such as ball games, hiking, amount of swimming,
etc. This information is filed both with the coun-
selor in the child’s cabin and with the assistant
director. Campers decide when to play active

  

games, softball, deck tennis, table tennis, and so
forth, with rules changed to suit their disabilities.
Toward the end of camp season tournaments in
nearly all activities become extremely popular. A
camper committee of nine makes the rules, the
schedule, and all plans, showing fine evidence of
careful judgment and enthusiastic participation.

The younger children en joy games such as cro—
quet, miniature golf, and a variety of circle and
group games; and the girls make camp gardens,
cut paper dolls, and play mothers. It‘is traditional
for the little girls eight to ten years of age to act as
hostesses at parties, and to initiate the first outdoor
breakfast, planning their own menu with the coun-
selor and dietitian, and inviting the boys of the
same age group and the administrative staff.

Swimming is a favorite sport. At the beginning
of the season children are allowed to
go bathing, but no effort is made to
teach them to swim. The swimming
counselors observe and jot down
notes to enable them later to place
each camper in a swimming group
where he will be able to learn to the
maximum advantage. Here there is
close supervision and cooperation
with the physiotherapist. Specific
exercises are recommended for some
children, and certain swimming
strokes are supervised.

The arts and crafts shop is fully
equipped so that any child even With
little initiative or little imagination finds ample op—
portunity to develop skills, 'appreciation of good
workmanship, and motor coordination. Unlike
the school workshop, there is no set curriculum,
so that the child may use materials at hand or ma-
terials furnished by nature to develop his creative
powers. Included in these crafts are leather work,
metal tapping woodworking, wood burning, air—
plane building, craft strip weaving, boat building,
and many other activities difficult to classify. The
girls enjoy basket weaving, knitting, sewing, mak—
ing dolls, crocheting pocketbooks, and many other
activities. Emphasis is placed on the occupational
therapy aspect of craft work for children desig-
nated by the medical staff.

The surroundings of the camp offer limitless
opportunities for nature study. Wild flowers
abound near the waterfall. Each summer, gardens
are planted around the cabins, especially in the
girls’ and the small boys’ sections. Spatter prints

(Continued on page 353)
RECREATION

 

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Columnpf Nature—Grams

ATU RALIS T Programs, National Parks.

A survey reveals that 500 naturalists in 289
areas are conducting 77 free public programs
along the same lines as in national parks. They
may be classified as follows: hotel, I ; hOSpital, I ;
societies, I3; museums, 4; sanctuaries, 2; botani-
cal gardens, 1; state departments, 12; metropoli-
tan districts, 3; county commissions, 2; city park
and recreation departments, 15; national park ser—
vice units, 2 .

Nature Recreation. If one purpose of a recrea—
tion department is to fill the gaps, the results of a
recent report on the “Teaching of Biology in Sec-
ondary Schools of the U. S.” (the New York
Science Press) are significant. Biology teachers
are asking for summer field courses. Rural New
England is far behind the country in facilities in
schools. There is a wideSpread tendency to teach
biology as a way to pleasing hobbies. Evolution is
taught in less than half of the high schools and even
then “is frequently diluted beyond recognition . . .
as to preclude a new ripple of thought.” In New
England sex education is taught slightly and in the
West in 75 per cent of the schools. Only 50 per
cent of the biology teachers
attempt field trips.

Nature Service. Wash—
ington, D. C., has the only
Metropolitan Nature Ser-
vice sponsored by the Na—
tional Park Service. This
unique long-range program
serves 10,000 school chil—
dren through Junior Lead-
ers. Such a plan is cumu—
lative in power.

Newton, Sir Isaac (I642—
1727). Mrs. Roger W.
Babson, at Babson Park, a
suburb of Boston, has re-
stored the F ore Parlor of
Newton’s London House in
the library of Babson Insti-
tute. This library contains
all the editions of the works

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

of Newton. In these days of barbarism we might
well think of the inscription translated on Newton’s
tomb in Westminster Abbey: “Mortals, congratu-
late yourselves that so great a man has lived for
the honor of the human race.”

Outdoor School of Religion and Nature Study,
for boys and girls 9 to i2 years of age, sponsored
by the Worcester, Massachusetts, Council of
Churches and the Natural History Society, was
conducted in July. The Natural History Society
also ran a school of nature training for children
who will assume leadership in various clubs.
Martha Hall is the new director of children’s

work.

Pan American Conservation. The treaty to
clarify and coordinate the park and conservation
program of the Americas is a sure-fire basis for a
bond of peace. We can all talk about protecting
scenery, wild flowers, native animals, and nature
programs with profit. These are Spiritual things
with which we can win through. The signatory
nations are Guatemala, El Salvador, Venezuela,
the Dominican Republic, and the United States.

“Plants, Economic,” U. S. Dept. of Agriculture
Circular 412. A compilation
of plants valuable for wild-
life utilization and erosion
control. This pamphlet also
has a value for camp and
for park managers. Among
the list are greens, medicinal
herbs, fruits for preserves,
jellies and drinks, and uses
for wood.

Poultry Raising. Fun or
work? If over 60 per cent
of high school youth go into
industry and are now taught
a few skills in poultry rais-
ing, gardening, dairying,
and meat handling, I claim -
that they are being condi-
tioned for a future hobby.
And, after all, football can

be work. In October 1621,
(Continued on page 362)

7/

349

WORLD AT PLAY

>



IO

h’ifxrlw

i

in! 
a, in
new?!

1

x a l h
a?" t I. ‘
I.“

21
.15.
iii;

§ 1
fr
'5
 J l
#3.?!

g
a”!

x3
15;. .3
fi

Ti

‘1
S
7.. '

l
a

if!
55} . .
if:

as“:
i is

33:23am
Hg“; .1“
i

3%
H
r
I

J

I
Hi .

Rims, .
w“ gi‘Lji J ,
ii}; ‘

l
13!"

if:
. 2mg»;

Eire
3‘
3'

a:

3‘
s 

i

‘5

é

if? gin!
2’22! :3
'1 .
. ‘2?

2%

A ,‘
M

“We

I M) Ma '. "
Wyn-rm"
was! W

;i
Q?

liilil

as. 
Email:

mg;
g

is;
ii!

85%;... .
  ."

,3}
h

3 .2
7
-" no

3
3
if:
,.

is

“was
; 9
B

iiiili‘i
l

» $35.1;
i

~,Q “in”

a“.
a:

I
l
i

 

 

GARVEY Memorial
Park in Los Angeles,
California, has
solved the problem
of keeping children from swinging on the hal—
yards of an open flag pole by constructing a
pylon which encloses the pole, leaving at one
side a small opening from which the flag can
be raised and lowered. The pylon is also used
as an honor roll with the names of community
men and women in the armed services posted
on its sides.

Solving the
Flag Pole Problem

 

 

.OVER five million
books have been col-
lected in the 1943
Victory Book Cam-
paign thus far, according to the Bulletin of the
American Library Association for July, 1943.
Nearly two million are already in the hands of
men in the services, and additional allocations
are being made daily as new requests are re-
ceived from all branches of the service:

350

Books for
Servicemen

 

The Council on Books in Wartime has spon-
sored a plan for publishing and distributing
free to men in the armed forces abroad ap-
proximately 35,000,000 books for recreational
reading in ‘farmed services editions,” which
are to be inexpensively produced and ex-
pendable. The plan has been worked out by
a committee of publishers in cooperation with
the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps.

 

“J-Ié’s” (Just Six—
teen) is an interest—
ing teen age club in
Chicago made up of
boys and girls sixteen years of age. One of
their important activities is running errands
and performing small duties for the OCD.

' {‘J-16!877

THE Union County,
New Jersey, Park
Commission has set
aside one swimming
pool in the heart of an industrial area for the
use of war workers coming off graveyard
shifts. The pool is open two mornings each
week at seven o’clock. Other services to war
workers include the organization of morning
leagues for night workers who wish organized
recreation and the conducting for industrial
plants of the leagues’ meets and tournaments.
Assistance has been given plant personnel
oflicials in setting up a recreation program,
and programs for picnics and outings have been
established.

Recreation for War
Workers

I

AROUND “The Leg-
end of the Ship,”
which tells how the
carpenters, the
blacksmiths, the roof makers, and all the arti-
sans of the city built a ship “a long time ago,”
the Park Commission of Charleston, \Vest
Virginia, has created a fascinating story of the
development of its recreation program. The re-
port, which is largely pictorial, is designed to
show the citizens of Charleston the extent of
the program and what the cooperation of many
groups has accomplished.

“The Legend of
the Ship”

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY 351

“It’s Everybody’s Job”———Re5ponsibility for
the recreation of war workers and their families

rests squarely upon the local community and its -

citizens, according to Recreation—A Resource of
War, an 8 page pamphlet recently published by the
Division of Recreation, Office of Community War
Services.

Following up this challenge, the pamphlet lists
clearly and concisely ways in which communities
can meet the off-the-job needs' of war workers.
Suggestions are made for public and private agen-
'cies, labor unions, war plants, commercial enter—
prises, churches, housing projects, dormitories,
trailer camps, and other community groups.

The pamphlet and the report from which it was
prepared, Spare Time—A I’Var Asset for War
W’orkers, may be had free of charge from the Divi—
sion of Recreation, Federal Security Agency, Social
Security Building, Washington 25, D. C. The full
report describes experiences of several communi-
ties which may serve as examples for leaders in
other parts of the country.

A Note From Chicago—w—A‘ drum corps for
boys and girls is the outgrowth of the Chicago
block organization.:‘On1y five boys appeared at
the first meeting, and great difficulty was en—
countered in securing instruments. Now there
are 82 boys and girls equipped with instru-
ments, with 162 on the waiting list'. When they
perform along the streets, they arouse much
interest. '

Winning U. S. Army Basketball Team En-
‘tertained—On April 9, 1943, the winning U. S.
Army basketball team in Scotland were the
guests of the American Red Cross Service
Club in Edinburgh. The eleven, with their
coach, were given a trip to the city and royally
entertained there. Twelve attractive Scotch
lassies were invited to the dinner and dance
which followed.

Playgrounds in Akron, Ohio—Since May I,
1943, the number of playgrounds in Akron,
Ohio, has increased from ten to thirty—six. Be-
cause of the acute manpower shortage the
Recreation Department, of which A. E. Genter
is director, was faced with a difficult problem
in securing enough workers to man the new
playgrounds. The Department sent sixty tele—
grams to physical education teachers and
placed an ad in the newspapers. In three days
ninety playground workers were engaged.

SEPTEMBER 1943

Regarding the Model Airplane Project—The
:Julyast. issue of Education for Victory an—
nounces the termination of the model airplane
project under which 500,000 model planes con-
structed by students enrolled in industrial arts
and vocational courses in the public schools
are being used by Army and Navy personnel.
December 31, 1943, has been set as the latest
date on which Navy certificates will be
awarded for making approved models. It was
agreed at a conference of representatives of the
Navy Bureau of Aeronautics and the U. S.
Office of Education that the'closing of the
project on a national basis should not terminate
the work in so far as local schools are con—
cerned, and schools are urged to supply local
Army, Navy, and civilian defense officials who
may request airplane models at any future

date.

Gainesville’s Volunteer Lifeguard -—- Glen
Springs, a privately owned swimming pool
outside of Gainesville, Florida, has been with—
out the services of lifeguards for several years.
This year, partly because of the increasing
number of civilians and soldiers using the pool,
the Recreation Department has established a
volunteer lifeguard corps so organized that
the pool is guarded by a senior lifeguard or an
instructor every afternoon from I :00 to 5:00.
For this service the owner of the pool permits
the Recreation Department to conduct classes
free of charge, and the lifeguards are given
free entrance at any time.

“Church of the Moon and Stars”—Each
Thursday and Sunday evening a community
sing is held in Austin, Texas, under the aus-
pices of the Recreation Department. On Sun-
day over 5,000 people take part in the program,
which is known as the “Church of the Moon

and Stars.”

A Swimming Pool for Stay—Home Recrea-
tion—~Now that pleasure driving is out for the
duration, the towns of Lansford, Coaldale, and
Summit Hill, Pennsylvania, are building a
$50,000 community swimming pool for the rec-
reation of the stay-at-home citizens of the
Panther Valley. The pool is a joint project of
the communities, which raised $25,000 toward
the cost when the Lehigh Navigation Coal
Company promised to contribute a similar

sum.

352 WORLD AT PLAY

5W RECREATION WWW?”

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys are space saving . . . a complete
Bowling Alley that is operated by the players themselvesl no

pin boys required.

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys sell for a fraction of the cost
of regulation alleys. Superbly constructed to last a life-time.
Though TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys fill every need for com—
petition. relaxation. and exercise' they do not make the
physical demands on the players that regulation bowling does.

Our special "E-Z" construction means easily assembled and iust as
easily taken aparté—completely portable—for in or outdoor use.

Two—Way Bowling Alleys now offer many hours of reloxotion to our men

and women in the Air Corps, Army, Caost Guord, Marines, Novy, Y.M.C.A.,

W.A.C., and U.S.O. from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to Alaska—from
New York to Californio. (Circular glodly furnished upon request.)

Additional scare sheets furnished free to all branches of the armed
services and the U.S.O. Centers using TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys,
through the courtesy of BAEEBICEI'IQIZJQABEEEEQ.

     
 
  

o a
{Kt A

i ll 

      

EQUIPMENT FURNISHED
Consists of the following:

One High—Grade, Hardwood Alley with swing-
ing ends. 23_ feet overall.

Two sets of ten pins each (20) Highest Grade
Hardwood, 71/2" x 23/3" belly thickness.

Two Hardwood Bowling Balls 3-9/16" in
diameter.

Two Pit Floor Mats.

Two Pit Base Felts.

Two Heavy Swinging Cushions.

500 Score Sheets.

Portable: Packed in sections—“E—Z” Set Up”
Construction.

Patent No. 2247769

DIMENSIONS

Length, 23 feet overall.

Width, 32 inches overall.

Height of alley above floor, 18 inches.
Height of both ends from floor, 38 inches.
Approximate shipping weight, 800 pounds.

Alsa Manufactured in the Following Sizes:
10 feet x 22 inches
15 feet x 26 inches

 
  
   
    

,4

J. 
.‘l 

mine/mi 4/017 MIMI/0AM 64/1/12

3 BOWLING THE NEW Z-WAY 'lf

 

   I I4 East 32nd St.. NewYorlt. Tel. LExington 2-8828

 

 

The pool will measure 100 feet by 200 feet.
One section is to be for small children, a
second for larger children, and the third for
diving and water sports. Dressing rooms and
rest rooms are being built along the two sides.
Mountain spring water at the rate of 2,000
gallons a minute will be pumped into the pool
from the supply line of the Lehigh Company
at its Lansford colliery, and waste water will
be fed back into the colliery for industrial use.

Danville Secures Year-Round Specialist in
Nature Recreation—Danville, Virginia, is one
of the few cities in the southeastern section of
the country to have a full-time, year-round
nature recreation specialist and program. On
June 15, 1943, the Recreation Commission ap-
pointed John \Vestbrook, Jr., to take charge of
the nature program. Mr. \Nestbrook’s pro—
fession is music and his lifelong hobby has
been nature recreation. His many collections
of nature objects will assist greatly in creating

interest in the program. An outline for a nature'

recreation program has been made, and a
weekly course of instruction for playground
leaders has been initiated.

“The Head Guides the Hand”—Members of
the Handicraft Division of the Burgess Bat-
tery Company contributed to the following
definition of “Handicraft” which was formu-
lated by a special committee—“Handicraft is
pleasurable non-commercial occupation where-
in the head guides the hand in fashioning
materials into desired products.” Every mem-
ber of the Handicraft Division was asked to
learn this definition and study its meaning.

From an Annual Report

(Continued from page 319)
a broader capacity by opening art classes to

talented students and furnishing rooms for Red
Cross meetings and other special activities. The
city has also placed another of its museums, the
C. Henry Memorial, under the supervision of the
department.

RECREATION

CAMPING WITH CRIPPLED CHILDREN 353

Camping with Crippled Children

(Continued from page 348)

offer a valuable opportunity to study the various
trees and leaves. Butterflies and moths are caught
and mounted as permanent nature displays. “What
is this?” is a contest carried on throughout the
camp season and consists of identifying a new
nature specimen displayed each day. Many books
on wild flowers, birds, and trees are found in the
nature library for use of the campers Hikes offer
an opportunity for the campers to discover the
' habitat of birds and rabbits. Nests of the ring-
necked pheasants and the bobwhites are often
found.

The older girls and boys express their appreci-
ation for their camp experience by making some
pioneer project their objective. As a gift from the
1940 group there is now an overnight camp site
with an Adirondack lean-to, open fireplace, and
frames for cots. Under the guidance of the boys’
senior counselor all plans were drawn up, wood
shaped, and stones placed in position by the older
boys. The girls made the canvas covers for the cots.

Two camp libraries are a great joy to the camp-
ers. A camper assumes the responsibility of libra-
rian, checking books in and out. The books are
the gifts of organizations and friends, and the
shelves are a contribution by the boys.

Medical Supervision

Medical supervision starts with the Medical Ad-
visory Committee of the Maryland League for
Crippled Children composed of sixteen orthoped-
ists, two of whom are assigned to visit camp once
a week on. different days, They act as consultants
in problems arising from activities on the part of
some campers, adjustment of braces, periods of
swimming, and so forth. In camp the physio-
therapist is responsible for all matters pertaining
to orthopedic appliances, and interpretation of
activities allowed’the camper.

The camp doctor and nurse are in charge of the
Infirmary, which is well equipped to care for eight
sick campers at a time. Such minor injuries as
cuts and bruises are promptly taken care of, and
regular dispensary hours are established for those
patients needing further care. A neighboring
physician acts as consultant on all cases owhere
there is any doubt as to diagnosis and treatment.
An excellent hospital a short distance from camp
is available for any serious injury.

The nurse has charge of the weekly weighing
period and with the camp clerk” records all treat-

SEPTEMBER 1943

@017 “W ATHLETIC

Wm EQUIPMENT

W n; w l m: Runner Cam. 1633! 25th 5! las Angeles. Calif.
Blanch' lBll N. Wanker BI. Ell-rage. "ii

 

ments, weights, and so forth, 'in the camper’s
medical history. '

All matters of food are handled by the dietitian,
including food purchasing and menu planning.
Campers who require extra nourishment report at
a regular time in the morning and afternoon. The
average number receiving special diets is thirty-
three.

Summary and Evaluation

It is difficult to evaluate all benefits enjoyed by
the children, Their social experience has been
broadened and the wonders of nature have been
opened to_them in contrast to the narrow alleys
and corner playgrounds of the city. The counsel-
ors keep a record of each child’s progress and
social responses. Campers are usually examined
by their orthopedist shortly after return from
camp. The results made frequently show improve-

." ment in general physical condition, including gains

in weight, and so forth. Marked improvement in
muscle tone is noted in some cases as a result of
increased outdoor exercise.

Campers are constantly relating camp experi- ,
ences in their classrooms, where improvements in
poise and social security are most noticeable. Par—
ents report that the campers show more considera-
tion for others in the home, more self-assurance,
more unselfishness in sharing playthings, more
obedience, and most of all a sense of appreciation
of surroundings, and a greater joy in living. The
spiritual life of the child is enriched through a new
concept of God in nature, through the quiet rever-I
ence around the weekly council fire, through ves—
per services, the singing of hymns and camp songs,
and in some instances through new friendships
established between campers and counselor. All
these values may not be found in every child, but
certainly they are found to such an extent that
every effort to provide a camp experience for
crippled children should be encouraged. It is an-
other opportunity for that fullness of life barred
in so many instances by physical handicaps.

354 JOHN J. CONSIDINE

YOU GET THE
BEST VALUE
IN NATIONAL

 

Ruggedly Built f’lq’ 75
«-
Pnced Right “6/976; 5’ for
1' (I a
G 9?:
1007,, Sale , Wm M4,: ’9'
All
Made of real Layer Felt and * 3° '40;
guaranteed free from broken a, X’NG R
punching needles, common in TRAIN INGS
ordinary punched process felts. * p40 M’G BAG
National Mats and Pads are * BA COVERS 3
widely used by High Schools, * SE 34‘
Universities and Colleges. 57¢; l 43
throughout the country. They 57C. 55

represent outstanding values . . .
built right . . . priced right. . .
and stand the gaff.

NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.

365—75 MARQUETTE“ — — FOND ou LAC, wns.

RECREATION FOR
WAR WORKERS . . .

VI‘HIS booklet, designed to serve as a guide for
workers in charge of recreation in war plants, is
a particularly timely publication. It attempts to sug-
gest in very simple terms the ways in which recrea-
tion can help workers in war plants get the most out
of their leisure time and find personal satisfactions
inbspite of their heavy responsibilities and demanding
JO 5.

Because community recreation workers have so
definite a responsibility for providing facilities and
activities, suggestions are offered in the booklet which
will be of interest to municipal recreation depart-
ments and private groups providing recreation.

The chapter headings cover such subjects as Special
Problems in Wartime Industrial Recreation; Activi-
ties; Planning and Starting the Program; The Com-
munity and the War Worker; Organization and Ad-
ministration of the Plant Program.

Appendices offer constitutions and by-laws of em-
ployees activities associations and athletic associa-
tions, a form for an industrial recreation interest
survey, a number of sample programs, and similar
information.

Order your copies at 35 cents each
from the

National Recreation Association

315 Fourth Avenue New York 10, N. Y.

 

John J. Considine

FTER 20 YEARS of service in Detroit, Michigan,
John I. Considine took oflice on 'March 25,
1943, as General Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation succeeding to the position which had
formerly been held by Clarence E. Brewer.

"Play with a Purpose"
(Continued from page 345)

group as a whole, every effort is made to carry out
these wishes—“with two important exceptions:

The frank discussion and facing by parents of
children’s problems is essential to helping the
child. It is recognized that in normal growth and
development there are many natural problems, and
the sooner recognized, the better for all concerned.
Adult recognition at home is very different from
the recognition a child receives in a group of his
contemporaries. It is a sad thing when a boy or
girl has not learned to get this normal recognition
validly, because he wants and needs it so badly.
He, just as do all of us, wants to be accepted and
to be liked. The other exception is that Play
Clubs does not enroll abnormal children in the
group, feeling that this is another field requiring
further Specialized training.

Age groups in Play Clubs are separate, and
each group has activities suitable to the age and
sex of the group. The age lines“ are not hard and
fast, as behavior problems are often eliminated by
merely placing the child in another group. A
brownie girl, large for her age, is a bully. She is
promoted to the midgets, where she hnds keener
competition, where the overaggressiveness is
checked both for the good of her own developing
self and for the physical well-being of the other
girls. When a child, in any situation, learns that
valid recognition and praise of the group is more
pleasant than the attention gained from erratic be-
havior, he chooses the more pleasant way.

Finally, a line laboratory for social understand-
ing is found in the make-up of the Play Club
group, as all nationalities and religions are repre-
sented. Many refugee children are in Play Clubs,
and this is an especially enlightening experience
both for’the strange little child and for the often
derisive group he joins, The complex problem of
teaching acceptance and tolerance to the bewil-
dered child of war and to the privileged child of
America is a hard task. This, too, is the work of
The Play Clubs of Chicago.

RECREATION

NTIL Now, no American mother, as she tucked her

little boy into his crib, has had to face the fright-

ening (thought that some day he would have to be a
soldier. Oar mothers have been spared that fear.

Now, with America determined to fight for the
things we hold dear, we cannot neglect these human
machines upon which we depend for victory.

America’s fighters must be made and kept physically
- {it for a winning tight against enemies who have lived
and trained for war since childhood.

And this is where the patriotic women of America
—women made of just as sturdy stuff as any women
in the world, can do another important job for victory,
and for postwar progress.

We need a Coach in every home where a boy is
approaching military age. A coach, with a mother’s
love, to inspire this youth. To keep
him playing your rugged Ameri-
can sports, which develop the
strength, the skills and agilities

that will assure him a better chance .
to win—and to come home from
the war with a sound mind in a

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

sound body.
We need a Coach in every home

 

Wilson Sporting Goods Co., and Wilson Athletic
Goods Mfg. Co., Inc.
Chicago, New York and other leading cities

THE NEW COACH...On the Home Front

An important war iob for the wives and mothers of America

Where there are war-workers and civilian workers on
the Home Front. A Coach with a mother’s deep inter-
est-a wife’s love—to keep these indiSpensable men
exercising—playing their golf, tennis, badminton, soft-
ball, volley ball ; doing their calisthenics, taking walks,
gardening, etc. They, too, must be kept strong for the
job ahead of us during the war and after the war.

We need a Coach in every home where there are
growing daughters—a Mother-Coach. She must see
that they develop the health and vitality—through
regular exercise—that America’s women must have
to meet the problems of the war and the postwar age.

This is extra war work that the patriotic women of
America are being asked to assume —a new job for
them, but a job they will love because it’s for the ones
they love.

On our part, and we speak for
the whole Sporting Goods Indus-
try, we shall continue to voice the
importance of America’s competi-
tive sports to the physical fitness
of our lighters, workers and peo-
ple. And we shall continue to sup-
ply all the sports equipment that
available materials permit.

IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

SEPTEMBER 1943

355

356 WITCHES AND “PUNKIN” HEADS . . .

The symbol of Uncle Sam's
appreciation awarded to the
workers and management of . . .

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHDE COMPANY

'._. . for their part in the war effert. :l'hrough
the furnishind of tools for the maintenance of_.
mobile equipment of the Army. Navy. and Air-' '
corps. at home and abroad.

{lb | 0 Grand Ave.

"The Ranch“ House"

(Confimzed from page 314)

Fifteen-year-old Danny Stark is doing :lots- of.

the interior decorating. For one thing, he is de-
signing a frieze around the walls of the main room.
It will contain a western procession of covered

wagons and horsemen. Danny plans a bucking

broncho mural for the reading room, and a chuck
wagon scene for the lunch room.

The town approves of The Ranch House. From
friends have come some really beautiful and choice
gifts——an imposing buffalo head, two deer heads, a
mounted mountain lion skin, two beautiful mounted
pheasants, a Navajo rug, a handsome Mexico
scrape in lovely blue and red shades, and Mexican
lanterns to use as chandeliers in the lounge.

With the adult governing group composed of
representatives of various civic organizations is a
junior governing body of twenty-four members
selected by the High School faculty. This student
Council is called the Cattlemen’s Association! It
drew up the constitution, and a very good one it
is, too.

Volunteer adult hostesses will attend all evening
sessions. At all times when the building is open, a

. girls !

 

junior host and hostess will be on hand. They will
welcome the guests and plan at least two games
for each evening. Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, and
similar organizations may use the building provid-
ing the meeting is not scheduled for the regular
sessions. If possible, The Ranch House hopes to
employ a permanent adult secretary for the winter

school term.

Dues are $1 per year, payable semi-annually.
The'big “Round-Up” will be about August I,
when The Ranch House will have open-house. The
boys and girls are planning their cowboy and cow-
girl costumes, and will welcome. the townspeople

with a short program of cowboy songs and dances.

And then The Ranch House will be officially open
——a real Western center for Western boys and

_ n-

Witches and "Punkin‘" Heads . . . .
if - (Continued from'pagez334)

mallow to each Side with a toothpick for ears.

'Trim with. potato chips.

You can have pumpkin cup cakes-'—frosted with

‘a sugarless orange icing, using chocolate for

features; Or make little honey cookies in,the shape
of a moon,'-cat or"witch. Orange and black/candy
may be used as a part of the refreshments also.

After. yoiirguests' ‘have feasted hearfily on the
Halloween; “goodies” you’ll want a clever way of
saying ‘goodby. f g I a

The Old Witch Is Dead. This game will do the
trick neatly, It will bring your party to a close

with everyone much to their surprise waving
goodby to each other at the same time.

The game is played with the players standing or
sitting in a circle. The leader turns to the person
on his left and says, “The Old Witch Died.” The
person addressed replies, “Really! How did she
die P” “With her left arm high,” replies the leader,
raising his left arm. The second player then makes
the same announcement to the person on his left
and the rime continues around the circle until
everyone is standing or sitting “with his left arm
high.”

The second time around the leader repeats the
statement, “The Old Witch Died,” and when the
next player asks, “Really! How did she die ?” he
replies, “With a left arm high, and a closed left
eye.” The original announcement, “The Old Witch
Died,” and the question, “Really! How did she
die ?” is repeated each time. On the third round

RECREATION

THE NATIONAL WAR FITNESS CONFERENCE 357

The National -\X/ar Fitness

Conference
Cincinnati, Ohio. April I3-Ib, ,l943

ELD UNDER the auspices of the American As-
H sociation for Health, Physical Education and

Recreation.

The keynote of this meeting was on physical
fitness for the present war emergency — both for
men in the armed services and workers in war in-
dustries. The selective service figures on rejec—
tions for health reasons were thoroughly explored
and the need for adjustment of prewar health and
physical education practices discussed at length.
Lesser consideration was given to postwar physi-
cal education policies and practices.

The Selective Service System figures brought
out two significant facts: one, that age has a
marked bearing on rejection rates, and two, that
the rejection rate for Negroes is nearly twice that
for whites, although educational deficiencies ac—
count for, perhaps, half of this differential.

The relation of age to rejection rate brought out
the need for physical fitness programs for out of
school youth and adults. It was agreed that this
can be achieved only through the creation of a
desire on, the part of adults for continued physical
fitness and a willingness to undertake a regular
program of self-initiated activities.

Several meetings were held on recreation with
the chief emphasis on the problems of and services
to war workers. In discussing cooperation between
municipal departments of recreation and boards
of education, Dr. Louis R. Burnett, Director of
Physical Education of Public Schools, Baltimore,
stated that, “The use of school prOperty and build—
lings as community recreation centers should be
assigned to the board of recreation by the board
of education.”

the leader answers, “With her mouth awry.” Each
new gesture is added to the last and all are held
until the game ends.

Finally, the leader announces that the next ges-
ture is so hard to make that he is! going to ask
everyone to reply at the same time. He says once

more, “The Old Witch Died.” All the players
answer him, “Really! How did she die ?” And he
says with much gusto and the appropriate gesture,
“A-waving goodby—so long, everybody l”

SEPTEMBER 1943

 
 
  
  
   
 

 

   
   

 size

Send for N ew
Circular—Just Out!

It illustrates smart modern styled
suits to meet every gym require-
ment, each an outstanding value in
its field. National suits are recom-
‘ mended by hundreds of Physical
 Directors throughout the nation.

0 NATIONAL gym suits are
carefully manufactured and
full cut with "action free”
tailoring.

0 ALL NATIONAL fabrics are
mercerized for extra tensile
strength, an added feature
for longer wear.

0 NATIONAL styles are smart
and modern—tailored to
look and wear to your
complete satisfaction. .

NATIONAL

Sports Equipment Company
365-375 Marquette Fond clu Lac. Wis.

° N E W' B 0 O K S °
By PORTER SARGENT

“WAR AND EDUCATION,” 512 pp., black

vellum, $4.00, has been hailed with highest praise
from competent critics—“Both a massively docu-
mented history and a bold but wise critique,” Earnest
Hooton, Harvard. “A treasure house of interesting
ideas,” Frank H. Hank-ins, Smith. “A very rich book
bringing together a great number of the best utter-
ances that have been made in our time,” E. A. Ross,
Univ. of Wisconsin. “Aliords a living, realistic, whole-

some and well presented approach to the realism of
the present day,” Howard Odum, Univ. of N. C.

“The most challenging, informing and constructive
book now confronting thinkin’g Americans,” Rev. Dr.
Charles Francis Potter, N. Y. “A must book' for all
men and women who are groping toward an under-
standing of what’s the matter with our civilization,”
Marco Morrow, Journalist, Kansas. “Vigorous and
original thinking . . . dressed in such a sonorous and
resounding prose that I was reminded at once of Sir
Thomas Browne,” Max Putzel, Washington, D. C.

A HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS,

1024- pp., red silk cloth, 36.00, 27th ed., reviews
the educational thought, activities and changes of the
year and brings up-to-date listings and critical de-
scriptions of over 3,000 schools.

Circulars, Table of Contents and Sample Pages
of above and Announcements of Forthcoming
Publications on Request

PORTER SARGENT, 11 Beacon Street, Boston

358 THE FIFTH DAY OF THE FIFTH MOON

Juwlot
ARTS 82 ACTIVITIES

the Magazine for
Y O U!

the Alert Elementary Teacher

The only national teachers magazine containing
so much practical, creative material that you can
put right to work in your classes:

Democracy in the Classroom. a new feature,
designed to help you instill ideals of democratic
living into the boys and girls under your care.

New series of articles on Music . . . Art . . .
Reading and Literature . . . Woodworking . . .
and many more.

If you are a Social Worker, Recreation Di-
reCtor, Leader of Children’s and Young Pe0ple’s
Groups, you will find abundant material each
month in Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES.

1 BIG ISSUES
ONLY $3.00

Regardless of the grade you teach or the
group you lead, Junior ARTS 8t ACTIVITIES will
give you the material you need. Every issue is
profusely illuStrated and contains projects for
primary, intermediate, and upper grades. It
makes work FUN! You owe it to yourself to
Obtain this helpful, usable material.

SUBSCRIBE TODAY!

 

Junior ARTS 8t ACTIVITIES R-9-43
46l6 N. Clark Sin. Chicago 40. III.

Please enter my subscription for Junior ARTS &
ACTIVITIES for 1 year, price $3.00. If I am not
satisfied, I may cancel my subscription within 10 days
after receipt of the first issue. I enclose .................... ..
or I shall remit.....‘. .......................................... ..(date)

Name .......................................................................... ..

Addrett ...................................................................... ..

City ............................................ .. State .................... ..

 

9

The Fifth Day of the
Fifth Moon

By BROOKS ATKINSON -

Reprinted by permission of The New York Titties

HUNGKING, CHINA, June 7—-—T his being the

fifth day of the fifth moon of the Chinese
calendar, all Chungking took a half holiday to cele-
brate the Dragon Boat Festival as usual. Proba-
bly most of the river men who paddled the long,
lean boats did not know they were honoring the
memory of the poet Ch’u Yuan, who drowned
himself 2,000 years ago because none heeded his
warnings against corruption in the government.

But it was not necessary to be a scholar to enjoy
the noise, excitement and pageantry of the dragon
boat racing, with drums and gongs beating along
the river, the paddlers’ colored shirts and the
rhythm of their stroke. Boatmen who generally
are barely covered with ragged blue trousers to-
day appeared in brilliantly colored shirts em-
blazoned with the decorative characters of their
club, and were the heroes of their districts.

After soaking the bottoms of their boats with
tung oil to make them slip through the water more
swiftly, the racers launched their craft with the
assistance of small boys whose heads were daubed
with yellow to keep devils away. As the boats took
to the swift muddy water of the Yangtze, rockets
echoed wildly across the river and every one
grinned and cheered.

At the proper dramatic moment the captain of
one boat came rushing, gesticulating and shouting,
down the steep bank, carrying a red and gold
dragon’s head and a twisted tail. He fastened the
tail at the stern and set off firecrackers to frighten

off devils.

When the boat was ready the captain stood the-
atrically on a narrow perch in the bow and waved
long yellow sleeves to set time for the stroke.
Amidships two other star actors beat a deep bar-
rel drum and struck a gong. At the stern, where
two men steered, the custodian of the rockets set
off terrifying salutes.

According to tradition the dragon’s head is sup-
posed to plow the water, searching for the mar-
tyred poet who died for justice. In point of fact
the VVanglungnIen boatmen raced two other dra—
gon boats twice across the river, letting out a
tremendous chorus of roars at every stroke, play-
ing shamelessly to the galleries on both banks,

RECREATION

50 THIS IS TROPICAL LANGUOR! 359

RECREATION IS AN INVESTENT
IN AMERICA’S FUTURE

*

Play wit/9 the best~ asyou work for Victory

GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BASEBALL BATS
LOUISVILLE SLUGGER SOFTBALL BATS, LOUISVILLE POWER-BILT,
LOUISVILLE GRAND-SLAM and LOUISVILLE
LO-SKORE GOLF CLUBS

 .1. ‘9

V.

where thousands of persons were lined up on steps,

walls and buildings.
Since the \Vanglungmen boys had succeeded in

driving the devils away by setting off firecrackers
at just the right moments they won all the races
and were rewarded with red sashes, handed down
by the judges on a junk careening at a crazy angle
near shore. Everyone looked and sounded enor-
mously pleased, Naked boys dived into the swirl-
ing waters and swam to the boat to salute the
victors.

Tomorrow the heroes of today’s celebration will
be riding battered sampans again, wearing rags,
bending to the current of the Yangtze. . . . But in
honor of an ancient poet they conquered one of
the world mightiest rivers today.

So This Is Tropical Languor!

(Continued from page 341)

the necessary safety valve. For others a book, a
drawing board, chess, or a quiet corner in which
to write is the means of again establishing equi-
librium. To still others sports—swimming, ping-
pong, active games—are the answers.

SEPTEMBER 1943

 

All. L’E‘FSKLEN  IVY:   ~  ’-

- ’1'” .

Of women volunteers there are all ages and
types. With their ready smiles, their friendly
greetings, they are the links between the men’s
civilian and military lives. Their very presence is
a reassuring reminder of staunch family ties.

Does the military agree with and approve the
Association’s policies? It does, wholeheartedly.
On most of these policies its ofhcers were con-
sulted before their adOption. They commend the
good sense that inspired them, They appreciate
the elasticity of the program and the careful co-
Operation which they have been given. The rela-
tionship of the Association with the armed forces
stationed in this area is one of mutual reSpect and
confidence.

Does the city of Miami Beach feel the Associa-
tion fills a practical need in the community?
Actions speak louder than words. The city has
never failed to lend a helping hand whenever it
saw the chance. The eight Pier centers have played
an important part' in reducing the city’s policing
problems. There were, for instance, the three cor-
porals who came from out of town on a holiday,
admittedly to paint Miami Beach a cherry red.
They ended by squeezing oranges all afternoon -

360 HOME PLAY ON THE AIR

 

FUN FOR HALLOWEEN

O Seventeen pages of spooky
“doings” for your Halloween party.
Party plans, invitations, decora-

tions, refreshments, musical ac-

tivities, stunts, and GAMES of all
kinds.

0 Plus a comprehensive bibli-
ography of stories, plays, songs,
and books—everything you need.

for a ghost-and-goblin celebration.

Price 25 Cents

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue. New York IO. N. Y.

 

(in attractive feminine company) for the Pier
dance which they attended that night.

Approval of the Association’s organization was
not given lightly by the city or the military of-
iicials. It was earned by these Miami Beach women
and their Greater Miami colleagues, They demon-
strated what they could do in a crisis that changed
the town from a jeweled resort into a khaki—clad
training center. They did not shirk the responsi-
bility at their doorstep. And you can tell it. The
inner satisfaction that comes from- a hard job
tackled and licked shines in their faces.

Home Play on the Air

(Continued from page 327)

bility and concrete contribution to the war effort
which it gives them. And here’s another point
I’d like to mention. It is not necessary for par—
ents to feel they must play all the games with
their children. Their part is to set the stage,
stimulate the children to use their own initiative
and imagination, and supply the encouragement
by their interest and attention. For example,
home dramatics. Children love to put on plays
for a responsive audience. Then, of course, re-

cturning to adults, how about that old game of

Charades—in modern forme—acting out the line
of a song or an advertising slogan. And how
about singing around the fireplace—Or reading
aloud? Adults can enjoy these things as well as
children. _

KEBBE: Miss Lee, home recreation seems to me
tobe an excellent opportunity for the man or
woman in your neighborhood who has qualities
of leadership, to organize parties and games and
hikes and so on, isn’t that so? '

LEE: That is so, Mr. Kebbe. And. remember, it’s
even more of an opportunity for us to get to
know our neighbors— to become better ac-
quainted with our friends . . . and to become
ourselves, happier, more useful citizens. Family
fun will take a little time, a little effort, and
much imagination, but it will be a big war bond,
paying a rich dividend in family spirit and zest.
It will mean a growing spirit of neighborliness
and well—being. Such a spirit is America’s real
front line of. defense, and it is our privilege to
hold it. The ideas for home play which I have
given you listeners today are only a few out of
many. Please note that .the National Recreation
Association is prepared at all times to give you
any help and advice you may want. And now
good—bye to you, Miss Wilson and Mrs. Sarto——
thank you for inviting me to be with you today,
and thank you all for listening.

KEBBE: Thank you, Susan Lee—for these inter-
esting highlights on the work of the National
Recreation Association.

SALLY: Ladies, the National Recreation Associa-
tion has already distributed over a quarter mil-
lion copies of a helpful booklet called Home
Play in Wartime. This booklet contains twenty
pages of information, directions and ideas for
games, parties and hobbies that can be played in
and about your own home. It tells you how to
use the materials you have on hand to make
many faiscinating home games. If you want a
copy, send ten cents, to cover the cost of hand-
ling and mailing to: The National Recreation
Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York

City, 10.

KEBBE: You have been listening to Miss Jeannette
Wilson and Mrs. John Sarto of Schenectady
and Susan Lee, of the National Recreation As-

sociation, who have been with us today on the
Women’s \Var Forum.

RECREATION .

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

361

A New Book With 500 Art Cra t Ideas

excellent for workshops

 

U CREATIVE ART CRAFTS

by PEDRO deLEMOS, Editor of School Arts

A grand work book with instructions, detailed directions, examples of
finished work including a number of valuable recipes for making your

own decorating materials.
You can turn to this book time after time to find new ideas, short

cuts or for step by step methods. Instructions and information are given
so clearly that yen get the complete idea at a glance.

You can use inexpensive or cast off materials to do many of these
projects—-paper, cardboard, wood and scraps of metal, leather, cloth and
even old tooth brush handles will do wonders with these ideas.

Three big sections: PAPER CRAFT—TOY CRAFT—RELIEF
CRAFT, large pages 9” x 12”, 80 pages of illustrations—8 in full colors.
Get this big work book—one of the best what-to-do and how-to-do it

books on projects published.

FILL IN COUPON AND MAIL TODAY

l-I-I-I-I-I-II...II...-I.-II...III-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I...------------|

   939 Printers Bldg., Worcester, Mass.

Send the New book CREATIVE ART CRAFTS
Enclosed is $3.75

NAME .............................................................................................................................................. ..
ORGANIZATION ............................................................................................................................ ..
STREET ........................................................................................................................................... ..
POST OFFICE ............................................................................................................................... ..

 

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
2 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES
Beach and Pool, June 1943

Children and Comic Magazines. The answers to many
questions parents and teachers are asking

Copies may be secured without charge from the
Juvenile Group Foundation, 125 East 46th Street,
I New York City

Film Catalogue. 245 distributors of non-theatrical lilms
Edited by Isidore Cooperman. Published by Aleph
Zadek Aleph, B’nai B’rith Youth Organization,
Executive Ofiices, 1003 K Street, N. W., Washing-

ton, D. C. Price 15 cents

If I Were to Build All Over Again, by Charles

Fieldhouse

Why Turnstiles Click at New York City Municipal

Pools,.by John M. Simpson
The Foil, May 1943

The Modern Dance—Its Place in the High School

Curriculum, by Caryl Cuddeback

Hygeia, August 1943
Teen Town, by Ella M. Philips

Public Management, June 1943

Preventing Juvenile Delinquency, by Elsa Castendyck

PAMPHLETS

A Civic Guide to Economy in Municipal Government:

Number One, Budget. 1943

Holidays and Festivals in Mexico

Travel Division, Pan American Union, Washington,
D. C. Price 5 cents

Homes for Heroes. Fourth annual report of the Housing
Authority of the City of Los Angeles

New York Is a Friendly Town
New York City Defense Recreation Committee, Inc.,
99 Park Avenue, New York City

Physical Fitness

thcial Bulletin, No. 5, Keds Sports Department,
United States Rubber Company, 1230 Sixth Ave—
nue, New York City

Religious Book List of Jewish, Catholic, Protestant and
Good Will Books. Second Edition, Revised

Tax Foundation, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York
City

Bibliography of Latin American Folk Music. 1942

Compiled by Gilbert Chase. The Library of Con—
gress, Division of Music, Washington, D. C.

SEPTEMBER 1943

The National Conference of Christians and Jews, 381
Fourth Avenue, New York City

The Folk Singer. A storehouse of folk songs

Extension Service of the College of Agriculture,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin '

362 A WARTIME CHURCH PICNIC

THE .
THANKSGIVING
BOOK

ERE’S a book you’ll be thankful for — a

real holiday manual complete with back-
ground material and practical suggestions for
a Thanksgiving program—PLUS a 7-page
bibliography of entertainment ideas.

IF YOU’RE planning a play or pageant,

here is a Wealth of information about har-
vest-time traditions and ceremonies. . . . If it’s
a ceremonial or festival, use the ready-made
scripts or adapt them for your locality. . . .
Or if a party is on your schedule, try “The
Apple is King.”

Forty-seven pages of helpful

Thanksgiving material

. . . Price 25 Cents

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue. New York IO, N. Y.

 

The Good Land. A community song service of America

with dramatic continuity
Extension Service of the University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan. Single copies free, addi-
tional c0pies 10 cents each

Recreation for Seroicemen—Enjoy Your Visit to Chicago.

Second Edition, May 1943
Chicago Recreation Commission, Chicago, Illinois

The Boohlist—Vol. 39, No. 18, June 1, 1943, Part 2

The United Nations, a bibliography of the United
Nations. American Library Association, Chicago,
Illinois. Price 25 cents

The Control of Juvenile Delinquency, Jackson County,
Michigan.

Report of a study by the National Probation Asso-
ciation

The United Nations—Children’s Books (List 1)

A bibliography of books which ofier honest knowledge
of and respect for the peoples and countries of the
United Nations
The Council on Books in Wartime, Inc., 400 Madi-
son Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.

The War and Social Problems.

Bulletin of the Russell Sage Foundation Library.
No. 160. May 1943

Vacationing in Chicago—Renew Energy for War Work.
Second EditiOn, May 1943

Published by the Chicago Recreation Commission,
Chicago, Illinois

A wartime Church Picnic

( Continued from page 316)

everyone here was someone who had come to our
party—not a passer-by on the beach.” “They had
time to talk with each other.” The minister sug—
gested—“I wonder if we can have another one in
September—the response was so enthusiastic, we
should open the fall season with a similar affair.”

Several weeks later, this comment came from a
man living in the community--—“We don’t go to
this church, but we did (come to your picnic. We
enjoyed it so much that we ‘stole your thunder’
and put on, your entire program at our church

across the way. Let us know when you have
another one.”

Why Archery?

(Continued from page 331)

Here are miscellaneous answers which ranked
lowest in frequency: 1. Girls own their own arch-
ery sets and want to learn to use them. 2. Girls
want to buy sets and consequently want to learn
how to shoot. 3. They want to learn to shoot well.
4. They like to hunt with bow and arrow. 5. They
want to develop skill in aiming.

These girls, of course, receive physical educa—
tion credit for the one-year archery course. But
every fall there are at least a hundred girls at
Pasadena Junior College who come out after school
four nights a week to practice shooting. This is a
Women’s Athletic Association activity for which
no credit is given. These girls just like the Sport.

What type of girl makes the best archer? Miss
Graham has found that it isn’t so much the physi-
cal build as intelligence. The 1941 Pasadena team
was made up of the eight best women archers in
the school. Four out of these eight were members
of the scholarship society.

It's Being Done in Nature RecreatiOn
(Continued from page 349)

the Pilgrim Fathers were thankful for a bountiful
harvest. In November 1943 we will hold an
American harvest festival for the same reason. It

makes a difference how we are thinking and rea-
soning NOW.

Seashore. “Along Our Coast,” Margaret Miller.

Dodd, Mead and Company, New York. 60 pp.
$1.50. Readable for children.

RECREATION

   

Guide for the Study of American
Social Problems

Compiled for the American Social Problems Study Com-
mittee. Columbia University Plress, Morningside
Heights, New York. $1.00. .

THE ANNOUNCED intention of this Guide is “to help you
make democracy work.” To achieve this aim, the
Guide is set up in such a way that groups of citizens
or citizens alone, leaders of groups, and opinion formers
can find the materials they need. The contents are classi-
fied under such subjects as The Consumer; The Worker;
The Farmer; Women; The Negro; Youth; Education;
Housing; Civil Liberties; National Unity; and The
Problem of Security.

’Songs of Many Wars

Edited and arranged by Kurt Adler. Howell, Soskin,
Publishers, New York. $3.00.

SONGS FROM the sixteenth century to World War II,
from Civil War battlefields to underground anti-
Nazi movements in Europe, from the Russian and
Chinese to the British and American fronts, have been
brought together in this interesting volume. While many
of the songs are being published for the first time in this
country, the volume also includes the classics of many
wars. The text gives the background of each song. Piano
arrangements are new and simple.

Fitting the Home Game Room

Popular Mechanics Press, Chicago. $.25.

HIS PAMPHLET—One of the Little Library of Useful

Information series—contains directions for construct;
ing a multi-purpose game table which is small enough
for two persons playing chess, checkers and back-
gammon, but is capable of instant enlargement so that it
will be convenient for four or six persons playing bridge
or poker. The booklet also contains directions for a
regulation size tennis table, eQuipment for “swing ball,”
and a number of game accessories. There is also a
section on Portable Basement Playrooms. ‘

The Party Game Book

By Jerome Meyer. Simon and Schuster, Inc., 1230 Sixth
Avenue, New York. $1.00.

MR. MEYER has given us in this book more of those
clever mental games which help banish dullness
from a party. There are fifteen new games and quizzes
in this collection, with six sets of each game provided,
easily removable from the book. The answers, too, are

given.

SEPTEMBER 1943

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

ArtsI Crafts and Customs of Our
Neighbor Republics

Bulletin 1942, No. 2. Compiled by Emilie Sandsten
Lassalle. Library Service Division in cooperation with
the Office Of the Coordinator of Inter—American
Affairs. Obtainable from Superintendent of Docu-
ments,$U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C. .10.

THIS BIBLIOGRAPHY contains sources of information on
the dress, festivals, crafts, and fine arts of South
American republics. It will prove exceedingly valuable

. to schools and other groups bringing material about the

daily life and customs of other Americans to young
people in the United States.

Education and the Morale of a
Free People

Educational Policies Commission. National Education
Association of the United States and the American
Association of School Administrators, 1201 Sixteenth
Street. Northwest, Washington, D. C. $.10.

DEMOCRACY REQUIRES morale to win in the present

crisis. Education can help produce morale? the
schools must and will respond to this need. How the
response of the schools can be made is the subject of this

document, which is a challenging pamphlet.

"Sound Off!"

Soldier Songs from the Revolution to World War II. By
Edward Arthur Dolph. Farrar and Rinehart Incor-
porated, New York. $3.50.

ATREASURY OF ARMY SONGS containing singable, play-
songs of American soldiers from Revolutionary days
to the present World War. Accompanying each song is
a short sketch Of the origins and histories of the various
tunes and lyrics. There are a number of illustrations.

Creative Art Crafts

By Pedro de Lemos. Davis Press, Inc., 44 Portland
Street, Worcester, Massachusetts. $3.75.

H UNDREDS OF PROJECTS in paper craft, toy craft, and
relief craft are included in this new book with its
78 complete pages of illustrations, 43 of which are in
full color.

Review of Cycling—I 943

Edited by Watson N. Nordquist. Obtainable from Mr.

Nordquist at 71 Webster Street, Hartford, Connecti-
cut. $.50.

THE 1943 EDITION of the Review of Cycling contains a
wealth Of information for the bicyclist. Among the in- .
teresting features of this issue are the History of the

363

364 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Bicycle League of America and the article on “The
Bicycle in War Time” by Roland C. Geist, author of
Bicycling as a Hobby.

Relaxation.

By Josephine L. Rath-bone. Bureau of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University, New York.

$1.75.

Since this book is concerned with relaxation as an aid
to total fitness and not with other aspects of general
hygiene, it naturally stresses ways of offsetting and re-
leasing tenseness and emphasizes quiet of 'body and peace
of mind as sources of strength rwhen so much is being
asked of the human machine. Dr. Rathbone discusses
facts about tension, signs of tension, physical and psy-
chological factors in fatigue, and physical and psycho-
logical methods of treatment. Under this last heading,
relaxation, recreation, and laughter are stressed as
essential.

Stories.

A List of Stories to Tell and to Read Aloud. Com-
piled by Mary Gould Davis and Joan Vatsek. The
New York Public Library. $.50.

Recreation workers will welcOme the announcement
that a third revision of the classified list of stories pre-
pared 3by the New York Public Library is now available.
The stories are classified under Folk Tales; Heroes;
The Tree of Life; Saints; Christmas; Hallowe’en;
Spring Festival; and Imaginative Tales. As Frances
Clarke Sayers points out in her foreword: “The publi-
cation of such a list at this time, in a year of paper
shortage and the ever-recurring report, ‘out of print,’ is
an act of faith in the storytellers and their art on the
part of the New York Public Library.”

Boys’ Club Farm Labor Corps.

Boys’ Clubs of America, 381 Fourth Avenue, New
York.

This is a manual for BOys’ Club members taking part
in the national food production program. Information is
given on organization procedure. and there are health,
safety, and welfare suggestions. Requirements prepared
by the Children’s Bureau are set forth, and there is a
helpful Bibliography on Youth in Wartime Agriculture
listing pamphlets prepared by such organizations as the
Boy Scouts of America, Camp Fire Girls, Girl Scouts,
the National Board of the Y.W.C.A.’s, the National
Council of the Y.M.C.A.’s, Jewish Welfare Board, and
similar groups. Walter M. Hall, Director, Program and
Personnel Service, states that a very limited number of
copies of this booklet are available.

Learning to Care for Children.

By Dorothy E. Bradbury and Edna P. Amidon.
D. Appleton-Century Company, New York. $.96.

Learning to Care for Children is a contribution to
the war effort in that its purpose is to provide boys and
girls of high-school age with a sufficient knowledge of
the practical aspects of child guidance to enable them to
cooperate succesfully in taking care of smaller children
in their own__ho_mes or elsewhere. Suggestions for the
play life of the child are offered in a number of chapters.

A Christian’s Opportunity.

By Felix Morley, Dorothy Thompson, and G. Brom-

ley Oxnam. Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue,
New York. $.50.

This booklet contains three addresses and discussions
at Town Hall, New York City, presented as part of a
series of religious addresses and discussions under the
general theme, “Religion in These Times.”

The Junior Book 01’ Camping and Woodcraft.

By Bernard S. Mason. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $2.00.

Cam'pcraft and woodcraft are presented in this volume
in a way which would make anyone, young or old, long
for the open road. Suggestions on equipment and tech-
niques of fire building and camping are simple and ex-
plicit, and there are many diagrams and pictures. To
clarify the directions, special attention is given to methods
of cooking and making cooking utensils, and recipes are
given.

Sports Technique Charts.

Prepared by National Section on Women’s Athletics
Committees. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

$1.00 a set.

The National Section on Women’s Athletics of the
American Association for Health, Physical Education
and Recreation has prepared charts showing the correct
technique for each Of ten leading sports—aquatics, arch-
ery, badminton, basketball, field hockey, golf, riding,
softball, tennis, and volley ball.

Children Can Help Themselves.

By Marion Olive Lerrigo, Ph. D. The Macmillan
Company, New York. $2.25.

This book, written in narrative form, introduces David
and his parents and gives the successive steps in David’s
growth and deveIOpment from birth to his eleventh year.
,At each period we learn What can be expected from him
in the way of accomplishments and skills; what habits of
eating, sleeping, and play he and his parents have estab-
lished ; and what his emotional reactions to the world are.

Official Track and Field Guide—1943.

Compiled and edited vby‘the Track and Field Rules
Committee of the N.C.C.A. A. S. Barnes and Com—
pany, New York. $.50.
Official rules of the National Collegiate Athletic Asso-
ciation are included in this guide, with a number of

articles and records, and a review of 1942 college relay
meets.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association
OFFICERS

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Beston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, \Vashington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.

MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, U. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

