The Fourth of July in Invasion Times

THIS JULY 4TH is a rededication time.

We pause to think of all that America has meant to us and to
the world. Our forefathers dared to unite the thirteen colonies.
Virginia and Massachusetts dared to trust each other.

A considerable section of the North American continent was
freed from the danger of anarchy.

Again in 1944 there is danger of anarchy—continued world
anarchy.

There is danger of continued attempts to settle differences of
opinion by world wars that threaten the destruction of all that is
valuable. “

Yet we live in a period when we can have a world richly satisfy—
ing in all that is beautiful and meaningful, but only if we end this
world anarchy—only if world wars are to cease.

The world can be beautiful. Once there was a Golden Age of
living in Greece, at the time of Pericles, though it was built on
slavery. Today in America there are on the average the equivalent,
we are told, of about three hundred electrical and mechanical slaves
for each one of us. There can now be a measure of leisure for living
without human slavery. Let the machines free us for more living.

All of us may now enjoy what was formerly possible only for
kings.

And yet all this possibility may be destroyed if each generation
has a world war.

The time has come for another affirmation of faith in ourselves

and the world in which we live, which will make us worthy of the
men of July 4, 1776.

There is a road up from barbarism.

In our world community we all are not helpless. We all can
provide community force against war.

Are we men and women and children of the 1944 recreation

centers courageous enough to stand up and be counted as being ready
to do our part in ending world anarchy?

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

JULY I944

169

Courtesy Planning and Civic Comment

 

lLet’s GO Fishin’

gestions for an economic

and social tidying-up of
our country in preparation for
the return of our boys from
overseas. As I wrote, I was
depressed by the thousand
mournful voices chanting daily
of “postwar problems” in such powerful terms'as
recovery, reconstruction and regeneration.

But in their research efforts in Speech and their
labors in type, they all concern themselves solely
with what we are to do while we are on their
promised jobs. Civilization, however, is not going

‘to depend so much on what we do when we are on

the job, as what we do in our time off. The moral
and spiritual forces do not lose ground while we
are pushing “the instrumentalities Of production
and distribution.” Their battle is in our leisure
time.

When the guns cease firing, and the gas comes
on again, some
of us are going
fishing. We
American men
and boys (and
some women)
are born fisher-
men—twelve
million of us.
W e h a v e
proved it in by-
gone days by
the annual li-

' censes we took
out from thrifty
state govern-
ments.

We have had
mostly to post-
pone the fish-
ing beatitudes
for the dura-
tion. Many of
us are busy at
the military
front. Some of
us on the home
front could pos-

RECENTLY I made some sug-

By HERBERT HOOVER

Mr. Hoover's delightful article made
its first appearance in the April 22nd
issue of Collier’s.
in RECREATION through the courtesy

of Mr. Hoover and of the publishers.

 

Photo by H. L. Standky, Colorado Springs, Colorado

sibly get a day or a week Off,
but the fishing holes can only be
approached by automobile or
motorboats, and a stern gov-
ernment refuses tO recognize
that fish do not flourish near
railway depots.

In the meantime, I suspect
that Mother Nature is making the fish bigger and
more plentiful by way of preparing to celebrate
peace, and our paternal government is doing its
duty to solve our postwar problems by running the
hatcheries full blast, turning out billions Of infant
fish and trying to decrease infant mortality.

I have discussed this important subject in years
past, but some review and extension Of those re-
marks are not out of place in these days when we
are groping for postwar regeneration. Nothing
can stop these regenerative forces.

Even the Four Horsemen cannot stop them.
War, murrain, famine, pestilence, dictators, the

rise and fall of
empires or re-
publics may de-
feat the game
fisherman tem-
porarily, but he
rises again to
invade the
streams and the
sea. More peo-
ple have gone in
for fishing over
more centuries
than for any
other human
recreation.

It is‘ reprinted

Sometimes the
uninstructed
and the people
who have bad
“isms” scoff at
the game fish-
ermen and de—
mand to know
how they get
that way. It is
very, very sim-
ple. These re-

171

172

generative impulses are physical, spiritual and eco-
nomic—and they are strong.

The human animal originally came from out-of-
doors. When spring begins to move in his bones,
he just must get out again. One time, in the Spring,
our grandmothers used to give us nasty brews
from herbs to purify our blood of the winter’s
corruptions. They knew something was the matter
with the boys. They could have saved trouble by
giving them a pole, a string and a hook. Some
wise ones (among them my own) did just that.

The Call of the Open Spaces

Moreover, as civilization, cement pavements,
office buildings, radios have overwhelmed us, the
need for regeneration has increased, and the im—
pulses are even stronger. When all the routines
and details and the human bores get on our nerves,
we just yearn to go away from here to somewhere
else. To go fishing is a sound, a valid and an
accepted reason for such an escape.

It is the chance to wash one’s soul with pure air,
with the rush of the brook, or with the shimmer
of the sun on blue water. It brings meekness and
inspiration from the decency of nature, charity to-
ward tackle-makers, patienCe toward fish, a mock-
ery of profits and egos, a quieting of hate, a
rejoicing that you do not have to decide a darned
thing until next week. And it is discipline in the
equality of men—for all men are equal before fish.

Necessarily, fishermen are gregarious. Other—
wise, the mighty deeds of the day or _of a year ago
or of ten years ago would go unsung. No one else
will listen to them. Also, they are an optimistic
class or they would not be fishermen. Therefore,
as two or three are gathered together, the spiritual
vitamins of faith, hope and charity have constant
regeneration. And we need all that in these years
of creaking civilization, and especially in the com-
ing years of postwar tribulation.

Nor does this source of spiritual vitamins require
any governmental bureau to administer it. All that
is required of Congress is to restore our freedom
from the fellows who restrict the use of gasoline,
and the rugged individualism of the fisherman will
do'the rest.

His joys are not all confined to the hours near
the water. I asserted years ago that one of the
elements in the advance of civilization was the
progress in the equipment to overcome the myster-
ies of fish. We have moved upward and onward
from the primitive willow pole with a butcher-
string line and hooks (ten for a dime) whose com-

LET’S GO FISHIN’

pelling lure was one segment of a worm and whose
incantation was Spitting on the bait. We have
arrived at ‘labor—saving devices and increased ef-
ficiency in tackle assembled from the bamboo of
Burma, the steel of Sweden, the lacquer of China,
the tin of Bangkok, the nickel of Madagascar, the
silver of Nevada, and the feathers of Brazil—all
compounded into mass production at Akron, Ohio.

For magic and incantations, we have moved for-
ward to cosmetics for artificial fiies, and wonders
in special clothes, and bags with pigeonholes for
everything, including mosquito repellents. We no
longer call it a “pole,” for it is a “rod,” and we no
longer say that a fish “bites,” he now “strikes.”

Out of all this progress, a good fisherman can
secure many regenerative hours of winter, polish—
ing up the rods and reels, greasing the lines, and
discussing the relative merits of gay-colored fiies
and dead-sure lures—thereby recalling that Big
One from the pool just below the rapids and the
fiy he rose to.

Nor is fishing a rich man’s regeneration. That
boy with the worm and a grin is always a reminder
that men are equal before fish. However, that boy
misses out in one particular that I hope to see
attended to in our next era of national reform.
There is regenerative joy in contemplating and
fondling adequate tackle, which he cannot get out
of a collection of angleworms. And his joys are
more seasonal because he cannot put in the winter
nights polishing up that tackle with its reminder
of that Big One from that pool and thereby the
renewed smell of battles to come.

New Deal for Young Anglers

I acknowledge to a prominent official an idea to
reform this. All boys should be guaranteed from
birth to manhood a quart of polish and a collection
of tackle with an assortment of special fiies. There
has been sad neglect in this question of assuring
artificial flies to the youth of our land, for flies
proved their inspiring worth perhaps four hundred
years ago—long before Izaak Walton.

When I was a boy and lived at the social level
of worms, a true fisherman gave me three flies—a
coachman, a gray hackle and a professor. I treas—
ured them greatly and used them successfully for
two or three years—until the wings were all worn
off. But there were more fish in proportion to the
water in those times.

There are some class distinctions among fisher—-
men. The dry—fiy devotees hold themselves a bit
superior to the wet-fly fishermen; the wet-fly

RECREATION

l

LE T’S Go FISHIN’ 173

fishermen, superior to the
spinner fishermen; and the
spinners, superior to the bait
fishermen. I have noticed,
however, that toward the
end of the day when there
were no strikes each social
level sometimes descends
down the scale until it gets
. some fish for supper.

This class distinction may
perhaps be ignored in the
general reformation, for it
is not based on the economic levels. The best dry
fisherman I have known is a lady cook at a lumber
camp in Montana. She scorned the wet-fly fisher-
men and rose to indignation at bait.

The swordfish and tarpon fishermen likewise
have some social distinctions on the basis of the
size of line and reel. The lower-thread line operat—
ors are the dukes and earls in that aristocracy.
Also, the swordfish and marlin devotees are natu-
rally superior to those who take mere mackerel,
amber jacks or fiounders. The bonefish fishermen
claim a little superiority to the tarpon seekers. But
again it is not economic status that counts in such
good society so much as knowing what the fish
bite.

Someone propounded the question to me: “Why
have all Presidents in modern times been fisher-
men?” It seemed ,to me a worthy investigation,
for the habits of Presidents are likely to influence
the nation’s youth. Some 'of us had been fishermen
from boyhood and required no explanation. But
others only became fishermen after entering the
White House. In examining this national phe-
nomenon, I concluded that the pneumatic ham—
mering of demands on the President’s mind had
increased in frequency with the rising tide of eco—
nomic and international complexity, and he just
had to get away somehow, somewhere, and be
alone for a few hours once in a while. But there
are only two occasions when Americans respect
privacy, especially in Presidents. Those are prayer
and fishing. So that some have taken to fishing.

President Cleveland was both a stream and a
sea fisherman from youth. His stiff trout rod is still
preserved by a devoted fisherman, and it is re-
corded that his sea-fishing boatman was chosen for
silence. Whether President Coolidge fished in his
youth is uncertain. He was a good deal of a funda-

mentalist in economics, government and fishing,‘

so he naturally preferred angleworms. But when

JULY 1944

"They call if fishing, fhose who do no’r know
ifs spirifual value. On fhe s’rream. among
frue disciples of Izaak Wali'on. fhere are
no walls of separa’rion. The rich. fhe poor.
fhe learned. fhe ignoranf. are all cemen’red
in a single bond. Tha’r bond is no’r cafch-
ing fish. as some imagine. The fhing which
holds us foge’rher is a love for God's ouf-
o'-doors. a hungernfor fhe simple and frue.
which is found on lake and sfream as no-
“ where else in fhe world. Verily a li’r’rle
fishing makes all fhe world a-kin."—O.
Warren Smith in Musings of an Angler.

the fiy fishermen of the na—
tion raised their eyebrows
in surprise, he took to arti-
ficial fiies. However, his
backcast was so much a com-
mon danger that even the
Secret Service men kept at
a distance until they were
summoned to climb trees to
retrieve flies.

But I should return to ex-
panding on postwar regen-
eration and its moral and
spiritual values in a gloomy world. Statistics tell
us that the gainfully employed have setadily de-
creased in hours of work during the whole of
thirty years. And in shorter hours 'and longer week
ends and holidays, we have devoted more time to
making merry and stirring the caldron of evil.
Crime has increased. Yet nobody ever was in jail
or plotted a crime when fishing. The increase of
crime is among those deprived of those regenera—
tions that impregnate the mind and character of
fishermen.

Our standards of material progress include the
notion and the hope that we shall still further les-
sen the daily hours of labor. We also dream of
longer annual holidays as scientific discovery and
mass production do our production job faster and
faster. But when they do the job, they dull the
souls of men unless their leisure hours become the

period of life’s real objective—regeneration by
fishing,

The Problems of - Leisure

Moreover, while we are steadily organizing in—
creased production of leisure time, the production
of what to do with it still lags greatly. We do have
some great machinery of joy, some of it destruc-
tive, some of it synthetic, much of it mass pro-
duction. We go to chain theaters and movies. We
watch somebody else_knock a ball over the fence
or kick it over the goal post.

I do that and I believe in it. But these forms of
organized oy are sadly lacking in the values which
surround the fish. We gain none of the lift of soul
coming from a return to the solemnity, the calm
and inspiration of primitive nature. )

Nor is it the fish that we get that counts, for
they can be had in the market for mere silver. It
is the break of the waves in the sun," the joyous
rush of the brook, the contemplation of the eternal

(Continued on page 222)

Shortages No Waterloo for Waterloo!

0 YOU WANT to get
your teens and sub-

teens off the streets
at night? You want to
offer them something con-
structive after school is
out? With shortages of
labor and material, with
priorities and nonpriori-
ties, you don’t know
what’s to be done?

Are you sure you’ve given sufficient considera-
tion to that old boarded-up school building in your
community? ,

Here in Waterloo we’ve had the thrill of seeing
an old school building turned into a clean, well-
lighted recreation center full of vigorous teen-
agers enjoying a variety of fun, afternoon and eve-
ning. It is a thrill that those of us who have been
responsible for such a project find hard to describe.
Words are inadequate to express the satisfaction
of seeing between 200 and 300 youngsters enjoy-
ing life on a typical afternoon and evening.

The Washington Community Center is located
just north of the Illinois Central Railroad shops in
a community of colored and white residents. It is
one of the most recreationally-needy sections of
the city, within a block of the home of the world-

famous live Sullivan brothers who lost their lives
in service to their country.

The Facilities

Upstairs are the offices of the Recreation and
Park Commissions, the game room, social room,
lounge, coat room, and three hallway game areas.
Downstairs will be found the shop for woodwork-
ing and electrical instruction, the kitchen and
canteen, and the storage rooms.

The game room is the boys’ “seventh heaven,”
even though the girls are beginning to provide
some pretty stiff competition. There are two pool
tables and two table tennis tables—each with its
own low-hung lights. The
32’ x 30’ social room has
spotlight “dim-lumination”
and a juke box for dancing.
Some of the recordings are
military bands, and these
are the joy of the sub-teens

174

By CHASE HAMMOND

Superintendent of Recreation
Waterloo. Iowa

Lights are on again at the old Wash-
ington School building in Waterloo.
and the inviting neon sign in front
readsI "Public Recreation Center"

The Workshop in the Community Center.
which Mr. Hammond mentions here. has
aroused so much interest and is so im-
portant a part of the Center's program
that an entire article will be
to it in a future issue of RECREATION.

who are well represented
during afterschool hours.
A two-way bowling game
is also located in this
room.

Off the social room,
through an arched door-
way, is the lounge. Be-
sides six card tables with
comfortable chrome
chairs and quantities of

games, there is a piano to strum, a magazine rack

for those in a reading mood, and davenports and
big comfortable chairs for “just conversation.”
The large, old-fashioned one-time school corri-

dors have been put to good use. One has a shuf~

fleboard court painted on its floor,- another offers
swing bowling and still another has a game of
skittles.

The coat room, with checking facilities for 250
persons, is located in a room off the back hallway.

The downstairs shop has proved to be one of
the most popular activities in the center. Smaller
boys make their own wooden revolvers, tommy
guns and PT boats. Bigger boys make everything
from ingenious ash stands to furniture. The shop
is well equipped with power machinery and hand
tools.

The canteen, where hamburgers, hot-dogs, milk,

potato chips, candy and pop are sold, is also I
located downstairs. These “eats” go like wildfire I

and the profits go toward paying for help and
leadership. "
The community interest evidenced in the whole
project is best demonstrated in the canteen. The
large restaurant grill was donated by the Iowa
Public Service. It is fitted into an impressive unit
of sink, cupboards and shelves that makes the
women of the neighborhood “oh” and “ah” with
admiration. The built-in units are the work of a
neighbor and his two sons who plastered, car-
pentered and painted for many evenings on end
as their contribution to the
Washington Community

were provided by the Cath-

This organization raised
$150 at a benefit perform-

d evoted

RECREATION

Center. Dishes and kettles

olic Daughters of America. '

SHORTAGES NO WATERLOO FOR WATERLOO! 175

 

If seemed af firsf as fhough nofhing could
be done wifh fhe dilapidafed old classrooms

ance which was a novel take—off, over a local radio
station, of the nationally famous “Breakfast at
Sardi’s.”

Much of the other equipment throughout the
building, as a matter of fact, was donated by in-
terested individuals and club groups. One club
took the project of furnishing the magazines, and
the reading rack offers an inviting variety of cur-
rent periodicals—everything from the National Geo—
graphic and RECREATION to Popular Mechanics.

Even while the building was in the process of
being refitted for use there was much cooperative
effort. Major repairs to the roof, walls, windows,
floors and plumbing facilities were made during
the early spring last year. By May Ist the office
had been painted and the Recreation Commission
had moved into its new building and
headquarters. From that time on, over
the summer months, the maintenance
staff received the active help of the
teen—agers in the neighborhood. Every-
one worked together to put the build-
ing in final shape. Older boys helped
sand and refinish the floors and paint
the walls while girls made drapes for
the windows.

Since the opening in November
about five months ago, the attendance
has totalled over 18,000. The average
evening attendance is made up of 210
peppy young people largely of junior
high age, and the average attendance
after school is ninety-five? with grade

lULY 1944

schoolers predominating. The recrea-
tion center is open on Monday, Tues-
day, and Thursday nights from 7 to
9 :30; daily after school from 3 :30 until
5 :15; and on Saturday morning from
9 to II :30. Due to school and Y.W.
C.A. Friday night activities, and the
Y.M.C.A. “Saturday Nighters” Club
program, the facilities of the commu-
nity center are made available to church
and club groups on these nights.
Wednesday night is “Family Fun
N ight” with activities for young and

old.

The Teen Canteen Club

The Teen Canteen Club, open to boys
and girls in the eighth grade and over, was one of
the first groups organized, and now includes over
400 members who have paid a membership fee of
fifty cents for one year. Club members have
elected a governing council made up of five boys
and five girls who make rules, discuss discipline,
and establish club policy. These youth leaders help
four paid adult supervisors keep the program in-
teresting and the rules observed.

Committees plan Special social and game events
and work closely with the leadership staff. Re-
cently, in Spite of numerous basketball attractions,
the Teen Canteen Club had one of its most success-
ful parties. The entertainment committee ap-
pointed four boys as the refreshment committee.
So popular was their hamburger and hot dog
stand that since then it has continued to operate

4‘

But good planning, ingenuity. hard work.
and plen‘ly of paim‘ performed a miracle

 

176 SHORT/ICES NO WATERLOO FOR WATERLOO!

two nights a week. This particular party, as do
most of the special parties, included a real six
piece orchestra.

The adult leaders, paid from budget funds, are
assigned to the shop, game room, social room and
hallways. The program at the center provides
activities for all age groups. Of the 675 registered,
the breakdown is as follows: I 50 grade school age,
225 junior high school age, 175 high school age,

and 125 adults. _
Program

MONDAY
3 :30 — 5 :15 Afternoon
Woodworking in shOp;
quiet games; game room
activities

TUESDAY

Fun with electricity; clay
modeling and plaster
casting; games

WEDNESDAY
Woodworking in shop;
dancmg; reading; games

THURSDAY
Electrical experiments ;
quiet games

FRIDAY
Woodworking in shop;
dancing; games

SATURDAY _
Kite construction; puppet
making and puppet shows

7:00-9:30 Evening
Sea Scouts; Teen Canteen
Club; dancing; games;
archery tackle construc-
tion—shop work

Teen Canteen Club; fur-
niture. repair and con-
struction; shop

Family Fun Night

Teen Canteen Club; paint-
ing and sketching—murals

Open to club groups by
reservation

'And now the young people of Waterloo have
a center of which the entire city is proud

In addition to the routine scheduled program,
several activities are provided at special times.
During the winter a fine ice skating rink was built
on the playground in back of the center. Lights
were provided and the juke box music was ampli-
fled from a window. One upstairs room was turned
over to the Sea Scouts who help the rest of the
boys with model boats on the land ship set up in
the room. Community singing, special entertain-
ments, social dances and square dances add to the
program. One of the most interesting groups is
the archery tackle making class of teen-agers and
adults which meets on Monday nights. This group
then has the Opportunity to try out the new tackle
at the regular indoor shoot at one of the school
gyms every Wednesday night. This combination
of craft and sport has been very popular.

Many interesting activities are envisioned for
the future when the second floor, which has been
partitioned off for the first winter, is opened. This
summer remodelling will be started, and by fall
additional activities will be available in a small
gym, a permanent craft center, a “Little Theater”
which will be used for forums and discussions, and
an enlarged game room with more pool tables, table

tennis tables, bowling and
other games.

 

RECREATION

SHORTAGES NO I/VATERLOO FOR WATERLOO! 177

Financing the Center

Two additional advantages to the old school
should be mentioned. A saving in the recreation
budget was effected as soon as the Recreation
Commission office was moved into the new Wash-
ington Community Center about a year ago. The

Department had been spending over $300 a year
in rent for oflice and warehouse facilities. Under

the unusually fair agreement drawn up by the
Board of Education, the only cost to the Recrea-
tion Commission for the school is the $56 annual
insurance cost. Another line feature is a ramp into
the basement where the truck can load and unload

all the playground equipment.

What about finances and costs in general? As
has been suggested earlier, the recreation staff and
interested young people really pitched in to help
get the building in shape. They took time out to
look for purchases. The pOpular shop, for example,
has only two brand new pieces of equipment, the
sander and power saw . The rest is second hand——
most. of it real “finds” which the recreation staff
found after considerable shopping around. This
may be part of the explanation of why the labor
Costs, which include plastering, roofing, plumbing,
and other expenses, amounted to only $249. The
original condition of the building makes this all
the more amazing. For example, not the least of
our troubles were—believe it or not—foot high
warps in the floor.

Up to the present time, April 1944, the total
expenditure for equipment and labor has been
$2,500. This includes the fully-equipped shop,
game room and lounge. Utilities, coal, insurance,
etc., have amounted to $797, and leadership and
janitor service have totalled $661. The grand total
for expenditures to date is only $3,958.

How much time does it take to evolve a com-
munity recreation center from an old building?
The Waterloo plan began back in the early months
of 1943 when the Recreation Commission decided
that now was the time to do something with at
least one of the closed school buildings. The Board
of Education gave its approval and major repairs
were made in the early spring. On May Ist, the
Recreation Commission moved into its new office
and headquarters. During the summer, the main-
tenance staff and young people in the neighborhood
did their good work. By November 26th and 27th,
everything was ready. Two open house evenings
were held when 625 youths and adults came to
inspect, dance and play games. Reactions of the

JULY 1944

school officials who had known the original condi-
tion of' the old building were particularly gratify-
ing. The City Council, too, was impressed. The
Recreation Commission, which meets for dinner
as a regular practice, invited the Council “to come
and see for themselves” on one of these occasions.

They Want More Centers!

Now that Waterloo has this one full-time recre-
ation center in operation, requests are coming to
the Recreation Commission and to the City Coun-
cil for such facilities in other parts of the city.
This is a satisfying development to those of us
dealing with recreation. Skeptics were numerous
when the project was first under discussion. The
Recreation Commission wants to provide this type
of recreation facility in other parts of the city, and
even though a limited budget makes it necessary to
concentrate on the single center for the present, it
aims to have another one ready to operate by fall.

Here in Waterloo we are working on the theory
that such neighborhood centers are long term
projects, not “for the duration” affairs. They there-
fore need careful planning and development. The
goal for our city of 60,000 is at least four full—time
community centers designed to meet the recrea-
tional needs of adults as well as youth. The closed
school buildings have given us our golden oppor-
tunity to prove the value of permanent indoor rec-
reation facilities.

Above‘ all, the new Washington Community
Recreation Center has made our citizens aware of
what the Recreation Commission does. It was
formerly thought of in terms strictly of play—
grounds. Now the city is becoming aware of the
fact that the Commission is working hard to de-
velop a year-round program designed to reach all
age groups with as varied a program as possible.
The future looks bright for recreation in our city,
and when our servicemen and women come home
we want our community centers ready with a
bang-up pr0gram!

“Occasionally the quiet voice of some judicious
man or woman may be heard to say that young
people are just as line today as they ever were;
that the spirit of youth, which is cherished and
envied, has always sought expression in play, and
that those who object to the way the young peOple
play had better look to the opportunities that are
provided before they criticize the use they make
of their opportunities.”——D. A. Thom, M .D., in
Guiding the Adolescent.

What They Say About Recreation

11 ORE PEOPLE are bored and irked by life than
M are hurt by it.”—Rev. Joseph Fort N ew-
ton in Survey Midmonthly, March 1944.

“Along with the food, clothing, and other neces-
sities we must send war—torn countries, we must
send the cooperative play spirit and help all peo-
ple recapture the fun to be had in family and com-
munity play on an international basis.”-——From the

National 4H Club N ews.

“Now more than ever is the time to engage in
recreative activities. Participation in sports such
as horseback riding, golf, bowling, badminton, and
tennis gives the participant that priceless sense
of momentary detachment from the monotony of
daily tasks.”—From Physical Conditioning.

“I know of few things better than music to
bolster up the morale of a nation. Let’s sing our
way to victory.”—Lowell Thomas.

“In total mobilization, recreation is a resource
of war. It is a hard-boiled necessity in these times,
an investment in our Number One asset—human
resources.”—From Spare Time—a War Asset for

War Workers.

“Proper recreation, especially for underprivi—
leged children in depressed areas where playground
facilities are scarce and decent amusement rare, is
a basic necessity for the building of a great citi-
zenry.”—Rabbi Louis Binstocle.

“The delightful thing about hobbies is that they
are so versatile. If you have never enjoyed one
that someone else is interested in perhaps you can
invent one.”—From Recreational Plans.

“The bow that’s always bent will quickly break,
But if unstrung ’twill serve you at your need,
So let the mind some relaxation take
To come back to its task with fresher heed.”

—Phoebns’ Fables, Book III, Fable I4.

“Recreation gives a fresh realization of inter-
dependence; it heightens comradeship and fellow-
ship, relieves tension and emotional stress.”—

From Findings of the National Congress of Par-
ents and Teachers.

178

“Recreation in the broadest sense means partic1-
pation in some activity that brings refreshment of
spirit and of physical energy.”—Leota Thomas,
Raymond Foundation, Chicago, Illinois.

“Community organization for physical fitness
and recreation is necessary for maximum service
on the home front, peak production on the indus-
trial front, and the efficiency required on the mili-
tary front.”—Harold E. Stassen.

“Sports help maintain the morale, health, and
enthusiasm of America’s lighting armies and her
hard working civilian population.”—From Sports
Age.

“The importance of recreation in relation to the
needs of men in the armed forces is generally
recognized. It is no less important in the life of
the civilian community. Release and relaxation and
recreation must be sought, in leisure time and in
play life.”—From Home Recreation in Wartime.

“Leisure ceases to be leisure if compulsion enters
in. We must choose for ourselves voluntarily the
activities or pursuits that are challenging and in-
teresting enough to bring us pleasure and profit.”
—Helen Ann Pendergast in An Appreciation of
Physical Education.

“Recreation offers a variety of desirable and
rewarding activities in which all can utilize the
democratic opportunity to participate.”—H on.
Charles Poletti.

“In recreation groups there is usually spontan-
eous feeling, and with it go a freedom of action
and a joyousness seldom found in ordinary activi-
ties.”——George M. Gloss.

“There has never been a time in our history
when it was more necessary to provide recreation
in music, drama, community sings, games and play
hours for all.”—Harriet Elliott.

“A hobby is something you go goofy over to
keep from going nuts over things in general.”—
Peggy Fears in Modern Digest, April 1944.

RECREATION

l
l

The SERA Center

An industrial plant performs .a
modern miracle by transforming
a dingy hall into an'up-to-date
center serving I'Q,000 employees

EALIZING THE NECESSITY of adequate and
R accessible recreation facilities, Scovill
Manufacturing Company of Water-
bury, Connecticut, recently provided a modern

recreation center for its 10,000 employees.

Known as the SERA (Scovill Employee Recrea—
tion Association) Center, the hall is not a new
building but a transformation of the dingy, unin—
viting Doolittle Alley Hall into an attractive and
eHicient recreation center.

Scovill, the oldest brass manufacturing concern
in the United States, has placed the Center at the
complete disposal of the employees by turning it
over, without charge, to the Company’s Recreation
Association. A total of $4,000 was invested in
furnishings, with the Company and the SERA

each paying half. The Association spent another

$2,000 for special equipment.

The SERA is an organization comprised of all
employees of the Scovill main paint in Water-
bury. The workers elect their oflicials from among
the membership and there are no dues. A power—
house employee is president and the assistant

 

JULY 1944

 

This is the view which greets the
visitor who strolls into the SERA
lounge. The atmosphere of ease
which pervades the place makes it
an ideal spot in which to relax

general manager as director of employee relations
is invited to attend SERA directors’ meetings as
a representative of management.

Adjacent to the Scovill East Mill, the Center is
less than a block away from Hamilton Avenue, a
main thoroughfare in Waterbury, and is thus avail—
able to buses on a frequent schedule. There is
much near-by parking space for automobiles.

At a meeting about two years ago the SERA
outlined plans “for allowing the use of the Hall
and its equipment to members free of charge—but
such events as boxing matches, basketball games,
dances and other activities open to the general
public will require a
nominal admittance
charge.”

It was also announced
then that extensive plans
for remodeling Doolittle
Alley Hall as an em-
ployee recreation center
were approved by the

Another view of the lounge
which shows the tireplace
and the trophy shelves

179

180 THE SERA CENTER

 

As the visi’ror passes ’rhrough the main

en’rrance info the Cen’rer he s’reps info
’rhis spacious lobby. Af the end of the
Main Hall he has a View of ’rhe s’rage

Company who owned the building and had agreed
to stand the expense of renovation.

The Hall was originally built during World
War I as a cafeteria and recreation building. Fol—
lowing the war, it was used on occasion for
meetings, basketball games, movies, or rehearsing
employee shows. During this time, the Hall re-
ceived very little upkeep attention.

In addition to general renovations, the plans
included converting main hall facilities easily to
accommodate a motion picture or theater
audience, a basketball game and spectators,
0r dancers. Remodeling, in addition to paint-
ing and redecorating throughout and laying
new floors, called for a lounge—complete
with built-in settees, a radio, bookcases, and
a fireplace. The favorite and most accessible
room of the Center, the lounge is in the
northwest corner of the building, directly to
the right of the handsome and impressive
entrance foyer. It is 31 feet by 16 feet and
attractively furnished according to plan.

The fireplace is a prominent feature of the
lounge. Standing I4 inches above floor level
and with a brick hearth about 4 inches above
the floor, it is 3% feet wide and 2 feet, 7
inches high. Constructed of rubbed concrete
with a hood of transite—an asbestos product
with the appearance of stone—it is practical

as a heating
unit but not at
all necessary
for this purpose
since the entire
Center can be
more than suf-
ficiently heated
by steam from
the adjacent
factory.

In addition to
the lounge and
entrance foyer,
the Center also
contains a
men’s room,
clothes check-
ing room, ticket office, and women’s lounge, all of
which are located to the left of the foyer across
from the big lounge. The main hall is adaptable
for quick transformation for shows, dancing, sports
or general meetings. A kitchen, 25 feet by 8 feet
and equipped with an electrical refrigerator and
glass display counters, is in the northeast corner
of the main hall.

At the south end of the Center lies the stage;
behind it are the game room and the men’s and

(Continued on page 223)

' The airy game room back of He s’rage

is so spacious “that many kinds of I

ac’rivities can go on at ’rhe same ’rime

 

RECREATION

, A Plan of Action

for

Recreation

ITHIN THE LAST few months the concern of
W of the general public with the provision of
)vholesome recreational opportunities for
youth has increased tremendously. This is true of
the nation at large; it is also true of the State of
Wisconsin.
. At least six Wisconsin cities hax7e recently estab—
lished the machinery for the organization and ad—
ministration of city—wide recreation programs and
appropriated funds for their operation. These cities
with their budgets are as follows: Green Bay,
$20,000; La Crosse, $11,200; Waukesha, $9,600;
Beloit, $7,500; Menominee Falls, $750 for this
winter and $1,500 for the year 1944. This amounts
to one dollar per capita ; and Superior, $4,000 for
the winter with a referendum planned for next
spring to decide on future finances for the depart—
ment.

In addition, many other communities, both large
and small, have set up youth recreation centers for
the first time. A number of others are planning to
do so. Communities with long established depart—
ments of recreation are expanding their youth
programs. Individuals and organizations never
before primarily concerned with recreation, sud—
denly are impressed with its values and impor-
tance, and old friends, such as the Parent-Teacher
Association, are vigorously stimulating its growth
and development.

The factors underlying this rapid expansion of
public interest in recreation
are chiefly two in number.
They are (I) support and en—
couragement of recreation
programs for members of our
armed services and for work—
ers in war industry by the
Federal government, United
ServiceOrganizations,Ameri-
can Red Cross, and many
other groups; and (2) fear

JULY 1944

This article by Mr. Dantord, who is Di-
rector of Health, Physical EducationI Rec-
reation and Safety of the Madison, Wis-
consinI Public Schools. appeared in The
Wisconsin Parent-Teacher, January.
I944-I and is reprinted by permission.
What he has to say to the Parent-Teacher
groups of Wisconsin might well be ad-
dressed to community groups anywhere
interested in promoting well-balanced
programs of recreation for their cities.

 

Gedge H armon

By HOWARD G. DANFORD

on the part of parents and other adults that unless
wholesome recreation activities are provided the
delinquency problem in their community may be-
come very acute.

This, therefore, is the situation with which we
are confronted in Wisconsin: a great upsurge of
interest in recreation programs; communities,
ready and anxious to do something—and many,
because of the absence of trained recreation lead-
ership, not at all certain what should be done, or
how to do it. It is extremely important that com-
munities establish desirable policies and practices
at the outset because after these become fixed it is
difficult and often wasteful to change them. Great
harm may be done both to the community and to
the cause of recreation by ill—advised programs and
procedures.

I PRINCIPLE: Creative participation is an essential

element of good administration.

This principle calls for all those “concerned in
the recreation program to be brought into the plan-
ning. Too many youth activities are adult con-
ceived, adult planned, and adult administered.
Youth should be brought into the planning as well
as into the plan. Unless you do this you may set
up an elaborate program and
find to your amazement that
youth is strangely uninter-
ested in it all. Youth interest
is very closely tied up with
youth activity in planning
and initiating any recreation
program.

This does not mean that
youth should be given a free
rein to do as it pleases, but it

181

182 A PLAN OF ACTION FOR RECREATION

, 4'

does mean that boys and girls should be invited to
meet with adults to help in the planning and the
operation of their own activities. They should be
invited to share responsibility is so far as they are
capable of doing so. In the words of Boyd Bode,
“Democracy, like swimming, requires practice as

well .as theory.”
The machinery through which youth, parents,

school officials, recreation leaders, and others may
express themselves in regard to the program can
be very simple or it can be somewhat complicated.
It may take the form of an occasional meeting of
all interested parties, or a recreation council with
both youth and adult members may be organized,
or, as in Sheboygan and Madison, youth councils
may be established with adult advisors. The
,machinery is not so important. What is important
is that youth and adults work together in the plan-
ning and administering of recreation for youth.

PRINCIPLE: Good organization makes possible the
systematic collection and use of facts as a basis
of policies and procedures.

Communities should be able to answer a number
of questions before they set up recreational .pro-
grams. Only a few examples can be given here.
They are: '

I. How can recreation in our community be
financed?

2. Is this plan a sound one and will it provide
a stable and enduring kind of financial sup-
port?

3. What wholesome types of recreation are now
available to youth?

4. \Vhat is needed?
5. What facilities are available?

6. How are other communities of like size
handling this problem?

7. Where can we get printed materials which
will be helpful to us?

8. What are the characteristics of a good recrea-
tion leader and where can we secure such
leaders? '

These and many other questions should be
answered before communities attempt to launch a
recreation program for youth. The answers may
be secured by one or more of the following tech-
mques:

I. Learn your state laws as they relate to rec-
reation. Last summer the Wisconsin legislature
amended the law to enable all school districts in the

state to establish programs of recreation and to
appropriate funds for this purpose. Do not be sat—
isfied with a plan of financial support for recrea—
tion which depends upon voluntary contributions,
tag days, and other equally unsatisfactory methods
of raising funds. There can be little stability or
continuity to a program so financed. It may be
necessary to begin in this manner but every effort
should be exerted toward placing recreation upon
the same kind of financial footing as that upon
which education now rests.

2. Write to the directors of recreation in the
larger cities of the state and ask them how they are
solving their youth recreation problems.

3. Write to the National Recreation Associa-
tion, 3I5 Fourth Avenue, New York City. Ask
for a list of its publications. If possible, join the
Association and receive the monthly magazine and
bulletin servicefThe cost is $5 per year.

4. Write to the U. S. Office of Education, Fed-
eral Security Agency, Washington, D. C., for a
list of its publications on recreation.

5. Survey your community to determine what
is now being done to provide recreation for youth.

6. Determine what needs to be done after read-
ing about this problem as widely as possible and
discussing it“ with recreation and child welfare
leaders. Keep in mind that some people cannot
recognize a need-even when it is almost self—evi-
dent to others. In this connection it will be help-
ful to read Chapter VI of Youth and the Future,
published by the American Council on Education,
Washington, D. C. This is the general report of
the American Youth Commission. Chapter VI is
entitled, “The Needs of Youth.” '

PRINCIPLE: Good organization requires the secur-
ing of a responsible and effective chief ex-
ecutioe.

The success or failure of any program of. recrea-
tion will depend chiefly upon the quality of the

'leadership provided. A poor school teacher can

“get by” for some time because her pupils are re-
quired by law to attend her classes. Participation
in recreation activities is entirely voluntary, how—
ever, and youth will simply refuse to take part
where the leadership is inferior.

Communities, regardless -of the size of their pro-
grams, should assign to the best qualified person
they can secure complete responsibility for the
organization and administration of a program. A
policy making committee or board of adults and

RECREATION

A PLAN OF ACTION FOR RECREATION 183

youth should be created to work with the director
but there should be only one person in charge of
the complete program with clearly defined respon-
sibilities. Two directors of recreation in one com-
munity is as impractical as two superintendents of
schools or two head coaches of the same football
team.

Does a school teacher make a good leader of
recreation? Some do and some don’t. It is gen-
erally unwise to use as recreation leaders for high
school youth their classroom teachers. The num-
ber of teachers who are possessed of a nervous
system sufficiently flexible to enable them to dis-
charge successfully the present dissimilar roles of
teacher and recreation leader is small indeed.

The good leader will understand and like peo—
ple. He will comprehend their hungers, their needs,
aspirations and sensitivities. He will possess a
‘sense of humor. He will be enthusiastic about rec-
reation and will be able to
arouse enthusiasm in others.
He will desire to stimulate the
creative impulses .in people,
develop their initiative, grovide
for freedom and productive
activity. His belief in and en-
thusiasm for democracy will
find expression in the organi-
zation of self-governing groups
under his leadership. He must
have organizing ability and
productive energy. He should
possess skill in the particular activity of which he
is a leader. And, finally, but of tremendous im-
portance, he must possess skill in dealing with
people.

PRINCIPLE: All school activities and services
should be made to yield as large an educational
return as possible.

Every community has thousands of dollars in-
vested in school buildings. It is good business
sense to use these buildings as extensively and as
intensively as possible. Why rent_a building for
recreational purposes if the school building can be
used? Milwaukee has for years been known as
“The City of Lighted School Buildings” because

of the extent to which it uses its buildings at night
for recreation.

The Parent-Teacher Association is in a strategic.

position to persuade school officials that the school
buildings should be used after school, at night, and
even on Saturdays. In Madison, ten of the city’s

JULY 1944

"Successful programs of recreation,"
says the authorl "do not 'iust grow'
like Topsy.«but are developed in con-
formity with sound fundamental prin-
ciples ofgood organization and admin-
istration. It is the purpose of this arti-
cle to present certain of these basic
principles in the hope that they will
be of help to communities in their et-
torts to solve the problems they will
encounter in establishing and conduct—
ing recreation activities for youth."

fourteen public school buildings are Open on Sat-
urdays for recreation activities, with approximately
2,500 boys and girls taking part in the program.

Many high school youth would prefer recreation
facilities away from a school building. They want
a place they can call their own—a youth center.
These centers usually provide soft-drink and milk
bars; lounge equipped with juke boxes for dancing;
the recreation rooms with equipment for table ten-
nis, pool, and other table games. The boys and
girls have a major portion of the responsibility for
planning and carrying out the programs, with im-
obtrusive adult supervision.

Properly operated such youth centers should
serve a very useful function. However, they should
supplement, not supplant, extensive recreation pro-
grams conducted in school buildings, parks, play-
grounds, libraries, churches, and in facilities ad-
ministered by various youth—serving organizations.

PRINCIPLE: Good administra-
tion provides for youth ac—
tivities, having social signifi-
cance, and having vital rela-
tionship to their life needs
and interests.

The program of activities
should be sufficiently broad and
of such a nature as to provide
many of the basic satisfactions
that youth must have to be
emotionally stable, mentally
adaptable, and socially effective. Consideration
should be given to types of activity that meet
youth’s need for high adventure and dramatic
action, which is intensified by wartime excitement.
If this need is not fulfilled in acceptable ways, it
may find eXpression in delinquent acts.

A few Specific suggestions in planning the pro-
gram follow:

1. Provide a wide range of activities of different
types: directed, self-directed ; sports, dances,
music, dramatics, crafts.

2. Offer_ boys and girls a chance to participate
in activities together, such as social and
square dances, mixed volley ball, shufHeboard,
badminton, and table tennis.

3. Include activities for both sexes and all age
groups. ‘

4. Give both children and parents a chance to
make suggestions concerning the program.

5. For activities such as social dancing, provide

(Continued on page 216)

They’ll Be Busy in Tucson This Summer!

ITIZENS of Tucson, Ari-
C zona, and the service-

men in near-by camps
will not lack for recreational
opportunities this summer. In
addition to the regular play-
ground centers and the swim—
ming pool centers, the Recre-
ation Department has secured
,, the use of several well-equip-
ped school playgrounds. This year, too, since the
demands for labor at the defense plants have been
less, more teachers qualified to conduct playground
activities have become available.

The regular summer program for children and
adults has been greatly expanded. It will include
opportunities to participate not only in the regular
athletic programs and tournament meets in swim-
ming, baseball, basketball, volley ball, handball,
track events, tennis and golf for boys and girls of
all ages, but will also include, instruction in band
and orchestra instruments, woodshop work, dra-
matics, and metal crafts.

The Tucson Little Theater will be open all Sum-
mer under the leadership. of a director who is
planning some short, swift-moving sketches suit-
able for showing at the Army and Navy camps in
and around Tucson, for evening entertainment in
Tucson’s public parks, and for entertainment of
the servicemen confined in the Tucson Veterans’
Hospital. Other special programs are planned for
the Veterans’ Hospital.

The Tucson Armory will be the center of a num-
ber of special activities to take care of the con-
gested population in that locality. The basketball
tournament will be played there, and there will be
table tennis and shuffleboard contests, and weekly
dances for teen age youngsters of the neighbor-
hood at which admission will be based on 25-cent
war stamp purchase. The sale of war stamps
and bonds will be further promoted by making
their purchase essential to participation in parties
and dances being planned by the Department.

Concerts on Sunday afternoons will be con-
tinued during the summer, and it is planned to
have concerts, plays, shows and rallies, as well as
exhibitions of special dances and games for public
entertainment in the Armory Park which is

equipped with stage, bleachers and loud-speaking
184

Tucson, Arizona. the beautiful desert
winter resort city with the friendly.
small town atmosphere, is spreading
her wings broadly in planning her sum-
mer recreation program. according to
Marvin A. Clemens. Mr. Clemens, who
has been serving as the city's Super-
intendent of Recreation for more than
a year, has had long experience as a
leader of young people's activities.

facilities. The bands and talent
from the various camps are co-
operating in this effort.

Since Tucson is the center
of the earliest Indian culture
in America, the Recreation
Department arranged with the
Indian Agencies and the Uni-
versity of Arizona Museum
Board to have an exhibit of

the native handcraft and culture. And since the,
earliest and highest type of Mexican—Spanish cul-
ture is also native to Arizona and Tucson, the De-
partment, in cooperation with the Spanish-Mexi—
can Societies, is planning an exhibit at the Uni-
versity of Arizona Museum of the arts and crafts
of these groups. Too little is known generally in
America regarding these groups which represent
the best and earliest types of American archeology.

The climax of the summer recreation program
will be the presentation on Labor Day of an his-
torical pageant written, organized, and directed
by members of the Recreation Department staff.
It is to be organized on a city-wide basis, with all
the playgrounds participating and it will be pre-
ceded by a parade over the main streets of town
in which all local organizations, business houses, I
industries, and the Army and Navy will be asked I
to participate.

The Tucson Recreation Department cooperating
with the American Women’s Volunteer Service
organization, is operating a Soldier Recreation
Center with headquarters in the old Country Club
building. The facilities are quite complete, includ-
ing a swimming pool, dance hall, volley ball and
basketball equipment, tennis courts, handball, table ._‘
tennis, reading rooms, and a kitchen and lunch room ‘_
service Operating from eleven in the morning to l
eleven at night. The other services are just as
complete, including sewing and mending services,
weekly instruction classes in dancing, weekly
dances, parties and a formal dance once a month.

Among the activities now Operating are:

Estevan Center—a modern clubhouse and park
for colored children and adults, with lunch coun-
ter, dance hall, ping-pong tables, stage, juke boxes
in an up-to-date, air-conditioned building. In the
park are a complete athletic field, swimming pool,

(Continued on page 223)
RECREATION

 

WANTED

A tree to climb. Call every
normal boy and girl in America!

F THE PARENTS and other taxpayers of this
I country would make a serious effort to supply

the need expressed in that hypothetical ad, they
would be tackling in a practical manner two of our
biggest national problems—forest conservation and
delinquency.

As farm boys we had to invent our own games,
and a favorite was to go into the woodlot and
climb trees. A boy would climb near the top of a
slender sapling, grasp the trunk firmly, throw his
weight vigorously to one side, and the tree would
bend in a graceful curve like a fishing rod and
lower him gently to the ground. The game was to
see who could bend the tallest tree. We‘ knew
nothing about the principles of physics involved,
but we always came hOme ready for a hearty sup-
per and a good night’s sleep. That surplus animal
energy, too often misdirected, had been expended
in harmless and healthful sport. It may be a trait
inherited from our arboreal ancestors, but I have
yet to discover the normal boy
and girl who does not have a
desire to climb a tree. The
climbing of trees is merely sym-
bolic of the scores of things that
youngsters can do in a forest
and at the same time absorb
useful knowledge of nature.

JULY 1944

As a nationI we have been slow to ap-
preciate the economic. recreationalI
and social values of community forests
although many of the cities which have
established them are enthusiastic over
the results secured. It is to be hoped
that in our postwar planning the com-
munity torest will come into its own.

Bringing the Forests
to the People

By HARRIS A. REYNOLDS

Secreta ry

Massachusetts Forest and Park Association

To satisfy an inherent craving to commune with
nature, to get a taste of the primitive, in normal
times pe0ple of all ages visit our national and state
forests and parks by the millions annually. A large
percentage of our citizens get much of their recrea—
tion by fishing and hunting. Huge sums are spent
to send boys and girls to summer camps in for-
ested areas. There is something about “roughing
it” that engenders the spirit of adventure; it is a
reversion to pioneer days, a developer of self-reli—
ance, a subtle builder of character.

If these infrequent excursions into the forests
are so enjoyable and so physically beneficial, why
should we not make them a possibility at all sea—
sons of the year to a larger percentage of the
population? As a matter of fact, only a small pro-
portion of the people, and especially the children
of this country, have ever seen a national park or
a national forest. A somewhat larger number have
access to our state forests and parks, but at best
these visits are infrequent. What we really need
is to make the recreational benefits of the forest
so much enjoyed in the vacation period available
the year round. And it can be done.

For about two and a half centuries Americans
were mostly pioneers living in or near the forests.
They had to hew their farms out of the forest and
much of the timber was destroyed for lack of a
market. With the coming of the
industrial age they found lum-
bering a profitable occupation
and one forest region after an-
other was denuded until today
most of the remaining virgin
timber in this country is found
in the Pacific Coast states. In

185

186

the wake of the sawmill came forest fires, and
millions of acres are so devoid of tree growth that
they willhave to be planted to restore the forests
of commercial species. Most of the Eastern states
are now importing largely from the far West
threeafourths or more of their lumber require-
ments, while their own forest lands are producing
only a fraction of the timber they should be grow—
ing. Besides, the cost for freight alone on this
\Vestern lumber is more than it would cost to
grow equally serviceable timber at home. It was
the profit motive that led our pe0ple to cut their
forests and the profit motive will restore them.
This pI‘OfIt in growing new forests,_however, will
not come from the value of the wood produced
alone, but from the satisfaction of bringing the
many other benefits of the forest back to the pe0ple.

The history of all peoples is one of wastefulness
of their natural resources until the pinch of scarcity
has forced them to conserve. Many once prOSper-
ous nations have failed to rec-
ognize this need in time to save
them from a state of poverty
from which they have never
recovered.

Europe Began Early

In Europe, however, the peo-
ple began several centuries ago
to care for their forests and
from this effort the profession
of forestry came into being. They soon learned
that it was profitable to have forests near their vil-
lages, and today from twenty to fifty per cent of all
the forest land in the various countries of Europe
is owned by the cities and towns. Three—fourths
of the woodlands of Switzerland are in communal
forests and the famous Sihlwald, the city forest of
Zurich, boasts of records running back one thou-
sand years. The city has continued to enlarge its
forest, paying as much for woodland as we pay
for good farm land in this country. Many of the
smaller villages own large forests, the profits from
which are sufficient to meet all of the public ex—
penses, thus relieving the citizens of local taxes.
But the profits from the forest products represent
only part of the benefits. Inns and restaurants are
located in the forests and thepeOple patronize them
throughout the year. The forests are bird and
game sanctuaries, the overfiow of game restocking
the surrounding territory. \Vhen the deer become
too numerous for the food supply, special hunting
licenses are sold to reduce the numbers and the

"The community forest is a living,
organic thing that will grow in use-
fulness as long as it is given proper
management, but with neglect will
deteriorate into a liability. If the ‘
sponsoring agency is prepared to give
perpetual follow-up in use and careI
it will yield continuous dividends as
long as the community shall endure."

BRINGING THE FORESTS TO THE PEOPLE

fees from that source swell the profits from the
forests. Teachers take their classes into the forests
for nature study. The forests beautify the coun-
tryside and conserve the water supplies. The com—
munal forest is a self—supporting wild park usually
within easy walking distance from the homes of
the citizens.

It is not to be expected that we can more than
approximate the money returns from community
forests that obtain in the EurOpean countries. Our
wage scale is higher and our prices for forest
products are lower because of the relative abund-
ance of timber in this country. But in every other
respect we can profit from the community forest
just as much as the Europeans. In fact, the bene-
fits in recreational values would in any case be
more important than the financial gains.

Economic Values

As a commercial proposition, however, the com-
munityforest is superior to any
other type of public ownership.
We have millions of acres in
our national forests located
chieHy . in the far West and
most of our forest producing
states have established state
forests. But these lands are
usually located far from the
lumber markets, especially the
western national forests. This
means long hauls to market and hence the stump-
age value of merchantable timber is less than half
that of the timber grown on the community forest,
where most of the forest products can be delivered
by team and truck to the ultimate consumer. The
community forest is generally located on better
soil, since many of them are established on aban-
doned farm lands, and hence the average produc-
tion is higher than that of national forests. Many
of the latter are situated in the mountains where
the soil in poor and growing season short.

The conservation of water is an important factor
in the creation of community forests and most of
the forest land acquired thus far by cities and towns
was bought for the protection of the water sup-
plies. Sonie of them utilize their water for power
before it is turned into the water supply system.
Far-seeing towns which expect. to increase in popu—
lation would do well to acquire land on their water-
sheds for community forests while it is relatively
cheap. Such land can be made self-liquidating by
the growing of a single crop of timber.

RECREATION

BRINGING THE FORESTS TO THE PEOPLE 187

In periods of depression the community forest
has been found especiallyovaluable in providing
useful work for the unemployed. Millions of dol-
lars were Spent on the improvement of community
forests during the past depression. Even in normal
times many people can be given temporary employ-
ment in these forests, especially in winter when
other forms of outdoor work can not be done. In
Europe the small farmers of the community are
given regular employment in the winter seasons.

Costs InvOlved

\Vhen one is trying to sell an idea to a commu-
nity he must be prepared to answer the question
“What will it cost ?” To establish a forest the
town must first acquire the land. If the area already
contains forest growth, the future cost is only that
of protection and maintenance, and such costs will
vary with the size and type of growth. In such
cases the question of cost will depend upon the
conditions in each individual tract. On the other
hand, if the land must be planted most states now
provide trees for reforestation to the community
free of cost. As a rule two men will plant an acre
a day and the cost will depend upon the going
wage rate. Of course the forest must be given care
at the proper time just as any other crop. Plant-
ing, weeding, pruning, improvement cutting and
fire protection are the principal requirements. At
best an annual expenditure of twenty—five to fifty
cents per acre should be ample to provide proper
management. Many places already own forest
lands obtained through tax delinquency or bought
l for other purposes. Some of the present forests
were gifts of public-spirited citizens. The commu—
nity forest is an ideal memorial to the services of
I war veterans or of individuals and not infrequently
towns have dedicated their community forests as
such memorials.

The community forest is not a fad; it is an
established institution in this country. It had its
origin in the common lands of colonial days. These
lands were mostly forested and with few excep-
tions they found their way into private ownership.
Occasionally a township is found where a consid-
erable area still remains in the common forest.

\

Massachusetts a Pioneer

The revival of this form of public forest in this
country was greatly stimulated when in 1913 the
Massachusetts Forest and Park Association made
a study of the communal forests in Europe and
started an educational campaign for the establish—

JULY 1944

ment of town forests in that state. As a means of
arousing public interest it made a standing offer to.
plant 5,000 trees, free of cost, for any town that
would set aside one hundred or more acres as a
community forest. Nearly a quarter million trees
were planted by the Association on the forests
thus established. The movement has had a steady
growth since that time and there are now 127
cities and towns in Massachusetts which have com-
munity forests. These forests average about 300
acres in size. They aggregate 38,500 acres on
which have been planted nearly 8,000,000 young
trees.

The Possibilities

A recent census made by the U. S. Forest Ser-
vice shows 2,269 community forests containing
2,908,113 acres, or an average of 1,281 acres' per
forest. Since some of these forests are very large
areas owned by counties, they somewhat distort the
average figure. But the possibilities of the com—
munity forest in the conservation movement be—
comes apparent when we consider that we have
36,000 cities, towns and villages throughout the
country, most of which could well afford to have
community forests. There are very few towns that
do not contain some land suitable for this purpose.

The real need in the creation of a public forest
in any community is some individual or organiza—
ation with sufficient imagination to visualize what
the town should be in the future. If a beautiful
grove within or near a town were about to be cut
for lumber, every woman’s club, garden club and
other civic organization would be up in arms to
save it from the axe. But no such interest is likely
to be aroused by the possibility of creating such a
forest. When we consider that a beautiful young
forest can be established in twenty to thirty years
and that the money so invested will eventually re-
turn to the public treasury, it should not be diffi—
cult for any community to set its idle forest land
to work. It is possible that certain beauty spots in
a community forest would be reserved from com—
mercial cutting because the trees would have greater
esthetic than timber value, but most of the area
could be utilized for timber production without
lowering its value for water conservation, recrea-
tion or the production of wildlife. When the value
of the forest as a breathing place for the citizens
becomes better understood there is no doubt that
the community forest will take its rightful place in
the conservation movement.

188 BRINGING THE FORESTS TO THE PEOPLE

The Forest Service of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture has issued two folders, one entitled
Community Forests; the other, Community For-
ests—A Practical Step in Postwar Planning.
These publications give some facts about the rec-
reational and community uses of these areas which
we quote:

A forest can be used for recreation while the
trees are growing into a profitable cash crop. For
example, more than 500,000 persons have visited
the Onondaga County forest in New York State
foi‘ recreational purposes in a single year. This
forest has two large lodges equipped for week end
use by the churches and civic organizations. Other

equipment for recreation includes swings, nature
walks, swimming pools, horseshoe and shuffleboard
courts, and teeter-totters.

Community forests are being used asnwildlife
and game refuges, and in them streams are being
stocked with fish. Where this is being done, hunt-
ing and fishing possibilities are being improved in
areas adjacent to living centers. The public value
of the forest for these purposes does not in any
way hurt the growing trees. While contributing to
the steady flow of clear streams, such forests may
at the same time aid in solving the larger national
problem of flood control.

For Community Welfare

Happy, prosperous communities result when
peOple are gainfully employed, when tax rates are
low, and when there is a convenient source of raw
material to perpetuate local industries. Many com-
munities might find the establishment of nearby
forests on misused lands a means for building up
the natural resources, creating new raw materials.
The production, harvesting, and manufacturing
of the forest cr0ps may provide more employment,
help stabilize local industries, and possibly lower
local taxes. The community forest thus may offer
one way to great community welfare.

There are certain things that are essential to
good living in any community. A healthy environ-
ment is one—good water, recreation, absence of
nuisance areas. Another is general prosperity
which involves support of local industry as well as
freedom from unemployment and relief of destitu-
tion. A third is a good educational system, and a
fourth is an undefinable something about a town
that makes it a good place to live in, which is mani-
fested by beauty of surroundings, local pride, and
a spirit of public service among its citizens. Com-
munity forests help in one way or another to

develop all of these fundamentals, and so commu-
nity forests are a natural element of all local
planning.

The nature of the community forest planned for
any particular town will depend on the uses planned
for it. Usually it will combine all of the functions
just suggested and have many other uses besides.
The size, the location, and the ownership, whether
county, municipal, or school ownership, will de-
pend on its intended use as well as availability of
a suitable tract.

A few examples will suggest how these forests
come into being: .

Grand Rapids, Michigan, has an area of 360
acres which was originally purchased for a war in-
dustry. No longer needed for that purpose, it is
being transformed into a community forest. Already
long rows of pine trees planted by the school chil-
dren are reaching above, the weeds and brush.
Down by the‘ creek are large maples and elms.
Soon after the war this tract of land will add one
more beauty spot to the city’s recreation areas.
The forest is as yet unnamed. What a wonderful
memorial this forest would make if dedicated to
the community’s soldier boys, some of whom may
have helped to plant it. By dedicating green for-
ests as perpetual living memorials to their military
heroes, communities may do a grand job of build-
ing up their own self-esteem, as well as appropri-
ately doing honor to their soldiers.

At one time the most prominent landmarks at
Glenlyon, Pennsylvania, were great mine clumps
of raw earth and ashes. On windy days the ash
was whipped into the air, settling like a blanket
on the town. Under the leadership of a young for-
ester and a local service club, the school children
planted forests of black locust on the ash dumps
and conifers on the hillsides. In thirteen years the
town has been transformed into a place of beauty
and, better still, there has resulted a remarkable
improvement in the social attitudes of its people.
. . . The Coal Company was able to reduce its
police force from three men to one. N 0 longer do
gangs of boys carry on continual warfare. There
has been a marked decrease in forest and property
fires, and betterment of scholastic records. Not
only that, but the influence spread to the adult
population. The result has been a general land-
scaping of the yards, more paint on the houses,
and a refreshing atmosphere of law-abiding com-
munity pride prevailing where there had formerly
been a tendency to segregate by sects and na—
tionalities.

RECREATION

A Day Camp in Dowagiac

The Day Camp at Dowagiac. Michigan. is a part
of the recreation program for youth in which
the city. the Board of Education. and commu-
nity agencies are en’rhusiasfically coopera‘l'ing

 

Gedge .Harmou

. DAY CAMP PROGRAM in which each youngster

A is given some real, meaningful work to do as a

contribution to the group effort is an integral

part of the summer recreation setup in Dowagiac,
Michigan.

The beginnings of Dowagiac’s day camp came
in the winter of 1940 when the E. R. Fitch Foun-
dation, with an eye to securing a play area for a
community fast becoming commercialized, pur—
chased resort property in the lake section of south—
western Michigan.

The site is a seventy acre tract on the shores of
Cable Lake in Cass County—property which was
once the summer camp of the Potawataime Indians
some ten miles distant from Dowagiac. One grove
has been a family picnic spot, and the lake a
favorite fishing and swimming place for this rural
section for over fifty years. Fifty acres of fertile
farm land adjoin the wooded shore line.

Once the land was acquired, the Foundation
turned to_the Community Council for plans in
developing it for maximum use by the people of
the Dowagiac area. After considerable discussion,
the Council decided that the Board of Education
should take over the program and the needed
funds would be made available.

The Dowagiac public schools had recognized for
some time their obligation as a social organization
to meet the leisure—time needs of the community,
and the school personnel was anxious to contribute
to the welfare of the children beyond the tradi-
tional limits of the classroom.

Parents, it was recognized, were faced with
situations which they were unprepared to meet.
Additional demands on the home because of the

JULY 1944

By CHARLES CANFIELD

war accentuated the need for a program providing
children with something to do outside the school.

The Board of Education believed that meeting
these personalized needs has been paramount in .
building confldence and lasting good will among
members of the community. The mother who can
deliver her child to a neighborhood play area for
a safe, busy, and prohtable day is very apt to be a
school booster. Parents presented with safeguards
to all the hazards that attend unsupervised swim—
ming, hiking, and similar sports which young peo-
ple seek in the summer will generally be very en-
thusiastic. A third summer service resulting in
increased support in Dowagiac has been the con-
tinuation of music instruction. Junior band mem-
bers meet every morning with rehearsals twice
weekly and the high school band, augmented with
parents and graduates, presents concerts weekly.
Evidencing satisfaction in this field, for the last
three years at community elections in the spring
citizens have asked for sizeable appropriations for
the high school band.

The Camp Comes Into Being

With a well-established summer program as a
basis, the Board of Education accepted the job of
developing the lake property with the idea that it
would be an extension of the summer playgrounds.
Services of the Kellogg Foundation Camp staff
were made available for consultation, and hnally it
was decided to shape the program toward a day
camp, transporting children back and forth in
school buses.

Maximum use was assured as the property was
thus available to adults and family groups eve-
nings and week ends. After a year’s trial, the
Foundation heartily endorsed the program by
making more funds available. Several acres have
been put under cultivation as a large school gar-
den under the direction of the Smith-Hughes agri-

189

190

culture teachers and the Future Farmers of
America Club. In this way the children gain val-
uable farm work experience.

In order to make the camp program a definite
part of the summer recreation program, children
are picked up at the three school playgrounds by
school buses. Parent consent blanks are given to
the children at the play centers. Every attempt is
made to keep the neighborhood playground the
center of organization and administration of the

camp program.

Paid personnel selected from the school staff
and older boys and girls who volunteer as helpers
are directly in charge of the camp program. \Vork-
ing under the direction of the camp staff in co-
operation with many lay and professional groups,
the routine is planned to supplement the daily ex-
periences of children on the playgrounds in town.
Some of the personnel work interchangeably at the
camp and on the playgrounds. Salaries are met
jointly by the Board of Education and the Fitch
Foundation. One school nurse and the home eco-
nomics teachers are in attendance at the camp.

In the matter of health and safety the camp con-
forms to all state and county requirements. A
pressure water system has been installed for the
kitchen, toilets, drinking fountains, caretaker’s
cottage and for fire prevention.‘ An electric re—
frigerator in the kitchen insures preservation of
foods. Toilets and kitchen were constructed with
carpenters from Dowagiac cooperating without
compensation. Modern plumbing has been in-
stalled with septic tanks and ceSSpools. Local
medical men have cooperated in giving physical
examinations to the children. First aid equipment,
waterfront safety devices, lifeguards, and general
health and safety rules "have been followed
throughout.

Equipment from the school cafeteria is moved
to the camp kitchen as soon as school is out.
Three cooks, who prepare the school lunch during
the year, are retained all summer as camp cooks.
No charge is made for the lunch and the 'menus
are prepared by the school economics department.
The food is served to the children sitting at out-
door tables and general cafeteria rules are followed.

During the first year (1941) in order that all
children might have a chance to attend, the week
was divided so that first and second graders at-
tended on Monday, third and fourth on Tuesday,
fifth and sixth on Wednesday, and seventh and
eighth on Thursday. The camp is reserved on

A DAY CAMP IN DOWAGIAC ..

Fridays for the use of groups such as Boy Scouts
and Camp Fire Girls. W ith the addition of facili-
ties the second year, children have been given the
opportunity to attend every day. Personnel was
added so that the camp could take care of as many
as wanted to attend. This arrangement proved to
be helpful in homes where most, if not all, of the
adult members were working. The division by
grades proved to be very satisfactory, however, in
establishing procedures at the start.

Every effort is made to give each youngster
some definite work to do as a contribution to the
group effort. Some work in the garden, others
police the grounds, older boys are asked to help
in construction work or in cleaning the beach. All
the work is done under the supervision of leaders
and has been an important part of the daily routine.

Evenings and week ends the camp is op'ien to
adults and family groups for fishing, bathing, and
picnicking. A fee is charged for the use of tables,
boats, and other facilities, and a store in the grove
sells ice cream, soft drinks and candy. The income
from the public during the 1943 season from these
sources was over $1,500, which was all turned
back into the grounds for improvements. The use
of the grounds by the public in no way interferes
with day camping as the children leave daily before
five o’clock.

The Program

The program for the day begins when at 8:30
every morning the buses pick up the children at
the schools and take them to camp. The first week
the children are taken on a short get-acquainted
hike which serves to teach the campers the limits
of the camp, location of toilets, piers, drinking
fountains, and so forth.

After the hike, the girls play slog ball, dodge
ball, and many other games. The boys have a
swimming period while the smaller children play
quiet games. The girls then take their turn at
swimming, and the boys have a baseball game.
Boys from kindergarten to second grade swim,
and the girls of the same age rest. Older boys and
girls work in the Victory Garden picking beans,
knocking bugs off the potato plants, hoeing, and
performing other similar tasks.

Then comes lunch! During the first week of
camp the children were so hungry that they lined
up about a half hour before the meals were ready——
and there were seconds for everybody! One rest
hour after lunch is compulsory and children lie-

(Contimwd on page 219)
RECREATION.

J

Now Youth Has a Chancel

HERE ARE three recrea-
Ttion centers for youth

now in operation in
Shreveport. One, known as
the “Sequoyah Club,” is lo-
cated in the State Arts Ex-
hibit Building, where the
decorations are carried out,
as the name implies, in In-
dian style. The boys and
girls themselves did all the
work of interior decoration,
and they may well be proud
of their accomplishments.

The second center, which
bears the cryptic title of
“\Vhatsit Club,” operates in
Cedar Grove, a subdivision of Shreveport. In this
particular section no building was available. One
of our public spirited citizens offered us a portion
of a garage building measuring about thirty by
ninety feet. The building has been decorated ar-
tistically and is now in use as a center. A project
is underway in this community, under the sponsor-
ship of the Rotary Club, to build a new recreation
building. Meanwhile present facilities are proving
entirely satisfactory to the young people.

The third center, “Byrd House,” takes its name
from the Byrd High School on whose back lawn
it is situated.

In each of these centers the young pe0ple have
set up their own standards of ethics and have
printed membership cards with simple, but specific,
rules of conduct which govern the center. They
have elected recreation “police” who wear an arm-
band with the letter “R.P.” plainly visible, and any
kind of disturbance is handled with dispatch by
these officials. '

At each center there is an employed recreation
director who serves as hostess and, with parents
from the sponsoring group, assists the young peo-
' ple in their program. The United Recreation
Foundation has provided juke boxes, ping-pong
tables, checkers, dominoes, Chinese checkers,
horseshoes, croquet sets, badminton and other game
equipment. Each center has a refreshment stand
where cold drinks are sold.

The centers, all of which are open on week days

JULY 1944

By W. C. YANCEY

President. United Recreation Foundation
Shreveport. Louisiana

Shreveport's youth centers are the out-
growth of a series of meetings attended by
wise parents who had become deeply con- the lime SChedUIe- And
cerned over the kind of recreation their
children were turning to on week nights.

Do the young people like these centers?
Just ask MaryI or John. Tom, or JaneI or
any of the hundreds of boys and girls who
are regular patrons! Or. better still' drop
in at a center about eight o'clock some
Saturday night and see for yourself! If
"actions speak louder than words" the
centers will fairly shout "Good Times."

from 4:30 until 8:30 P. M.,
and on Friday and Satur-
day nights from 7:00 to
I I :00 P. M ., have had splen-
did support from the boys
and girls in the matter of

rwhile they belong to young
people from twelve to
twenty one or two years of
age, parents are cordially
invited to attend. The young
people periodically entertain
their parents, who come in
large numbers, with pro-
grams which they plan. Thus
fathers and mothers have
an opportunity to learn by first-hand observation
what their children enjoy and what their needs are.

It Took Time!

All of this did not happen over night. Marn-
days and weeks were Spent in making surveys, cs}:-
lecting funds, securing trained workers, hncing
locations for the centers, and selling our “goods”
to the public. The story back of the scenes is an
interesting one.

Early in February of this year, a group of par-
ents of the First Methodist Church in Shreveport,
who were sponsoring the Sunday evening program
of the Methodist Youth Fellowship, began a dis-
cussion group at the same time the young people
were having their worship service and discussion
period. The question that they naturally asked
themselves was, “What can we do to help provide
recreation for the young pe0ple on week nights?”
Out of these conferences came the idea that ulti-
mately led to the creation of the United Recreation
Foundation of Shreveport.

At our meetings parents reported that when
they said to their children, “Don’t go to such and
such a place because the environment is bad,” the

r natural comeback was, “Well, where shall we go ?”.

So the parents decided to make a study of the
situation. Their survey showed there was not a
commercial establishment in the city where liquor
was not sold and where the inHuences could be
considered wholesome.

191

192

 

Immediately church and civic groups, and pub-
lic—Spirited leaders began to demand a constructive
program of recreation for the teen age group which
would incorporate the 'social features the young
people had been seeking in commercial establish-
ments. In a publicity campaign, 10,000 letters and

pamphlets were
mailed out to par-
ents or distributed
through parent-
teacher and church
groups. Through
this method city-
wide interest was
aroused. The en-
thusiastic support
of the young peo-
ple themselves was
an important ele—
ment.

The United Rec-
reation Foun-
dation

The United Rec-

reation Founda-
tion of Shreveport
which was created
to conduct the
program is com-

NOW YOUTH HAS A CHANCE!

posed of men and
women represent-
ing private organ-
izations in the city
interested in rec-
r e a t i o n. T h e
Chamber of Com-
merce, Recreation
Committee, the
Recreation Coun-
cil of the Parent-
Teacher Associa-
tion, Recreation

Committees from
the Rotary Club,

Lions’ and Ki-
wanis Clubs, the
Optimists’ Club,
the Woman’s De-
partment Club,
and many of the
churches pooled
their planning and

worked out a city-wide program for the operation
of recreation centers for the teen age group.

The Foundation is incorporated and chartered
both locally and in our State Capitol at Baton
Rouge. Membership is made up of parents, and

(Continued on page 222)

 

RECREATION

Country Dancing Around the   

NE THING is certain about
0 the after—the-war period

in the United States! Country dancing will
occupy a major place in the social—recreation pro-
gram of the peOple, urban aud suburban!

There is plenty of evidence for this statement.
It was not an unusual experience, in my visits to
USO clubs, to be told by a club director that he
didn’t think the boys in the camp near his club or
his volunteer hostesses would be interested, only
to have literally hundreds of servicemen and girls
turn up for the announced program, with enthusi-
asm mounting during the evening.

Sometimes I would be told that “we’ve tried it

and it was a flop,” but they were willing to try it

again. In all but one or two instances our efforts
met with complete success. The less successful
programs occurred where poor promotion had
been done, or, as happened twice, when totally in-
adequate music was available.

What Is Needed ?

What are the necessary ingredients? A positive,
enthusiastic attitude, good promotion, reasonably
goodrnusic, and emphasis on teaching rather than
on old—time “calling.” Recreation leaders who
know how to teach an activity, getting results
quickly, gradually moving from simple iigures
toward the more complex ones, do the best job.
Old-time “callers,” usually accustomed to calling
for very small groups composed largely of experi-
enced dancers, are not always successful when
they attempt to direct the dancing of large groups
of beginners. They frequently do not know how
to give directions in easily understood language.

Our experience has been that excellent progress
can be made with groups
numbering as many as three
hundred people, almost all
beginners, if simple directions
are given in a clear, under-
standable voice and language
by a leader who is sympa—
thetic, friendly, has a sense
of humor and a quick wit,
and who really “takes hold”
as if he knows what he is
doing and means business.

JULY 1944

By LAURENCE B. CAIRNS

One of Mr. Cairns' chief assignments as
program consultant of the National Coun-
cil, Army and Navy Y.M.C.A.. was the in-
troduction of square dances. and other
forms of country dances. What he saw in
the course of trips made during the past
year. which took him into over a hundred
USO clubs and similar centers in thirty-
two states' convinced him that the in-
terest in square dancing on the part of
servicemen and women and civilians
alike assures its permanent popularity.

It is not necessary to debate
the' relative merits of country
dancing and so—called social dancing, nor to em—
phasize the many important values inherent in
country dancing—certainly not to readers of REC—
REATION. But it is thrilling to discover the reac-'
tions of hundreds of servicemen from all parts of
the country, as well as local civilians in the pro-
grams in the service centers. Many servicemen
do not, or think they cannot, dance. the modern
ballroom dances. For one reason or another they
come and look on, but do not participate; as many

. as 50 per cent of them, in many centers. On in-

numerable occasions I have had these boys say to
me, “Thanks a lot,-mister. This has been the best
fun I’ve had for months/I don’t do the other
dances, but this is fun.” The words change from
place to place but the reaction is the same.

“We Do It This Way!”

~ Of course there are problems! Some of the
local folk may have been keeping up their square
dancing and when the party is announced at the
USO club frequently the local old-timers, or new-
timers, are invited and they drop in. The differ-
ence in styles, in calls, in actual combinations of
iigures is noticeable. Usually the local dancers are
good sports and do the dance your way, although
they frequently can’t resist the natural impulse to
seek you out and remind you that they do the
dance differently! In one club in Texas I was
calling the good old “Birdie in the Cage” which _
one iinds everywhere. The group of about one
hundred dancers picked it up quickly" and were
having a grand time. Without any warning what-
ever, I heard a voice back of me saying, “That’s
wrong. That isn’t the way
to do that dance.” I was so
startled that I almost lost my
place in the call, but I man-
aged to keep going until the
“promenade” and then had a
few seconds to look around.
There was a buxom matron,
with outraged expression, re-
peating the charge! I said
quickly, “This is one way to
do it, madam, but there are "

193

194 COUNTRY DANCING AROUND THE U. 5. A.

 

half a dozen other ways.”

There are really very
few such incidents, though
of course. there are many
discussions, between
dances, and after the prod
gram, in which service-
men from all points of the compass tell how they
do this and that dance back home. When square
dancers get into such discussions, it is fun. They
are all members of an unofhcial guild.

In a large town in GeOrgia I found the City
Recreation Department directing a program in a
housing center where, once a week, the community
. recreation building is given over to a square dance.
The rather small hall was jammed-——the orchestra
was sawing away and the caller was dancing and
calling at one and the same time. Here, as in
many places in Georgia, South Carolina, Alabama
and Mississippi, if local people are in charge, the
dances are done in circle formation. They were
having a wonderful time.

In San Antonio and Mineral Wells, Texas,
numbers of local square dance groups turned up
at our programs for servicemen. Most of these
people were fifty and over and had been keeping
up their dancing in clubs which were formed for
this purpose. Some of the most delightful people
I have ever met were these old-time square danc-

ers. The Old Trail Club in San Antonio, Texas,

His daytime iob is recruiting for the Navy.
but Yeoman Robert Faldtema serves the Lynch-
burg home front as well. Several evenings a
week he assists churches. the Y.W.C.A. and the
city Recreation Department by leading tollc
games and dances for teachers. college stu-
dents, business girls and many other adults.

 

Photo by S. 0. Fisher Studio, Lynchburg, Virginia

is a good example of this.
They were excited about
the revival of interest and
tremendously interested in
our method of teaching be-
ginners. They’d never seen
it done that way.

On one occasion, in another Texas town, I had
the privilege of putting on a program in which we
had the participation of a gentleman well along in
his seventies. His ability to do all the dances and
literally outstay any of the army boys and local
young women was something to behold! Of
course he had the easy, sliding shuffling walk, in
perfect rhythm, that is typical of the Texas
dancers.

Several times I was asked to coach exhibition
groups for special occasions, and it was amazing
how quickly the young folks caught on. Half an
hour’s rehearsal of a simple dance, with each
couple doing a different figure, produced excellent
results. In San Angelo, Texas, we rehearsed eight
couples Friday night for about half an hour. Sat-
urday night every one of these dancers, soldiers
and girls, turned up at the great Municipal Audi-
torium, and they did a square dance (two sets)
as a part of a floor show for an audience of over
a thousand servicemen and civilians. They
scarcely made a mistake—certainly not a serious

one! (Confiner on page 219)

RECREATION

Recreation in the Mormon Church

By ELDON D. BRINLEY, Ed.D.

Formerly Director of Recreation
i Board of Education
Great Neck, Long Island

OR MANY YEARS recrea-
F tion has played an im-
portant part in the pro-
gram of the Mormon Church,
though relatively few people have realized the part
played by this group in the recreational pattern of
the nation, or the contribution it has made. The
Mormons held dances in their chapels of worship
as far back as 1840; early presidents of the Church
viewed recreation as a fundamental need of their
people and vigorously encouraged universal par-
ticipation in wholesome leisure-time activities—
and this at a time when popular amusements in
America followed in the main the colonial period
‘ of puritanism. Though national interest in recrea-
tion was not to develop in earnest until the turn of
the twentieth century, by 1875 the Mormon Church
had progressed a long way on the road to its pres-
ent highly centralized recreation program.

The Mormon Church has incorporated recrea-
tion into its very tenets and therefore devotes con-
siderable time to educating its members recrea-
tionally. To the Church few pursuits are good or
bad in themselves but are mainly '
dependent upon the accompany—
ing environment. No recreation,

The beautiful Stake House which is

located at Burbank, California, is
typical of many of these bulldings

therefore, is encouraged in
unfavorable moral circum-
stances but takes place in
positive surroundings. The
Church maintains that wholesome activity can
crowd out undesirable types. It emphasizes that
recreational activity is conditioned upon three
main factors: biological, social, and educational.
Its recreation program is based upon seven so—
called urges: social, dramatic, physical, rhythmic,
linguistic, environmental, and constructive.

Organization and Administration

The entire Church membership is divided ac-
cording to geographical areas into 146 units known
as Stakes, each having a membership of from 1,000
to 10,000. In a similar manner, each Stake is par-
titioned into several units called Wards, of which
there are 1,128 in the Church, each with a mem-
bership of between 200 and 1,500. This arrange-
ment provides the basis for the organizational and
administrative structure to function, and insures
a line of authority from the general Church au—
thorities to the lay members.

The responsibility for the rec-
reation program of the entire

 

JULY 1944

196 RECREATION IN THE MORMON CHURCH

 

Church has been delegated to two of the several
auxiliary organizations of the church; namely, the
Mutual Improvement Associations (commonly ab-
breviated M.I.A.) and the Primary Association, the
latter dealing with children between the ages of four
to eleven years inclusive, and the former with all
those twelve years of age and over. Close to 50,000
leaders are active in these two associations.

The authority to organize and coordinate the
recreation program of the Church rests with a
General Board of each of the agencies responsible.
The line of administration is definite and synchro—
nization complete, for the Ward Board, or small-
est unit in touch with the lay members, is respon-
sible to the Stake Board which in turn comes under
the General Board’s jurisdiction.

Facilities

A typical Mormon Church consists of two parts,
a chapel and a recreation hall, usually in the same
building. This recreation center consists gener-
aslly of an open floor, stage with necessary fixtures,
piano, and sufficient removable benches or chairs
to accommodate a crowd, and is the nucleus for
multifarious activity. It is used extensively and
run according to schedule. There are 870 such
halls in the Church, and more than eighty-two in
Salt Lake City alone. The Church spends a con-
siderable annual sum in their construction, re—
modeling, and repair.

Of course there are many other facilities available,

Courtesy Desert News Press

such as camps, tennis
courts, ball diamonds, pic-
nic areas, and special
amusement centers. The
Church, however, looks at
recreation from a commu-
nity standpoint and tries
to avoid duplication of
municipal facilities to any
great extent. It therefore
uses in its program many
public facilities such as
schools, parks, and other
buildings or areas, and in
turn allows many outside
agencies the use of its rec-
reation halls.

Leadership and
Personnel

Mormon recreation lead—
ership is on a volunteer
basis. There is not a single
person in a Ward or Stake who receives remuner—
ation for his services. Of the nearly 50,000 M.I.A.
and Primary leaders, there are only six paid in-
dividuals, and these are working full time in the
central offices of the Church at moderate compen-
sation. This unorthodox system of lay leadership
is a phenomenon difficult to understand by out-
siders. How does the Church recruit such per-
sonnel? It is taken for granted. Children are in-

doctrinated from youth to serve, and such teach;
ings, woven into the folkways of the people, stamp
leadership as desirable and popular.

How is this army of part-time volunteers pro-
vided? By a systematic plan of continuous leader-
ship training open to all. This consists, in the
main, of deflnite theoretical and practical courses
available throughout the Church plus enrollment
in a university of experience. Mormon philosophy
is built on the advocacy of lay leadership and
versatility.

The Church believes in an experimental type of
education and an organismic psychology in that
a person learns “to do by doing.” Every person
is a leader in some capacity, and he shares his
talents with others. Thus a deliberate attempt to
give instruction in the field of pedagogy and
leadership, coupled with the many actual oppor—
tunities to lead, develops individuals in a surpris—
ingly efficient manner.

RECREATION

 

 

RECREATION IN THE MORMON CHURCH 197

Finance
Since in the average non—Mormon recreational
setup, better than fifty per cent of its funds
usually goes into leadership costs, this Church,
because of its volunteer leaders, represents the
essence of frugality. Economy is the constant
watchword.

With most of the facilities furnished by the
Church, and leadership expense nonexistent, it is
necessary to have only a small reserve on which
to operate. This necessary amount is raised through
a Ward budget plan. Under this system the Ward
bishopric, three individuals empowered to admin-
ister the Ward affairs, estimate the total amount
needed for a year. This sum is then prorated
among the various members on the basis of ability
to pay, some individuals being assessed little or
nothing. Recreation receives its portion of these
funds when collected, since its needs are included
in the total Ward budget figure. Under this ar-
rangement the recreation program becomes open
to all at no further expense. On some occasions,
however, there are small additional charges for

such special features as refreshments. The family

cost for such an extensive pro-
gram is unbelievably low, and
no person is ever turned away
because of his financial status.

Drama'is one of the most popular ac-
tivities of the program. Each year
thousands of church members take
part in plays and historical pageants.

Public Relations

Public relations are maintained through a very
effective method of using printed and nonprinted
media. Leaflets, outlines, bulletins, pamphlets,
magazines, posters, personal and general letters,
and newspapers are utilized, as well as radio, re—
cordings, and motion pictures. The main channel,
however,'is by word of mouth. To both members
and nonmembers, a constant barrage of informa—
tion comes from announcements, conferences, dis-
cussions, speeches, and is carried from person to
person.

The Church attempts to develop high commu—
nity morale and cooperation through keeping its
public informed. As a result, not only does pub—
licity precede events, but the papers generally pick
up the news and emphasizyésumé reports.

Program Operation

While it would be impossible in this space to
describe fully the extensive Church recreation pro-
gram, a brief of some items will give the reader
a clearer‘ general picture.

The Primary and M.I.A. hold at least one meet—
ing every Week which all
Church members are invited to
attend. This gathering is not
only in itself of a recreational

 

JULY 1944

193 RECREATIQN IN THE MORMON CHURCH

nature, but it forms the basis for most of the lei-
sure-time planning in the Church. Thus future
activities are scheduled for presentation.

The Church attempts to sponsor a broad range
of activities in physical, rhythmic, constructive,
nature, linguistic, social, and dramatic interests.
Certain of these fields are emphasized far more
than others, with a view toward minimizing total
community duplication and reaching those indi-
viduals who would otherwise have inadequate op-
portunity for expression because of age, back-
ground, or other reasons. Not only is a wide
choice of activities advocated for everyone, but
individuals are encouraged to participate exten—
sively as well. Actual practice falls little below
theoretical aims.

The M.I.A. usually meets on Tuesday evenings
when interesting programs are presented. Here,
part of the time, spectators may relax and enjoy
themselves. Usually activity takes up a large part
of the time, and there are things for all to do. If
a person is unable to participate because of lack
of skills, he is given instruction in the. activity.
There is a chance for everyone to learn how to
dance, for instance, since fundamentals are taught
at definitely scheduled times. The Primary func-

tions in a similar manner with the children.

The weekly meeting becomes a center of learn-
ing and instruction, exemplified through participa—
tion. From this core radiate the various other
activities which take place through the week or
month. A three-act drama might be organized and
presented by a group of players, or a basketball
league‘itinerary might be drawn up.

The annual road show is an apt example. Each
year every W'ard M.I.A. in the Stake develops a
fifteen-minute act, generally, though not neces—
sarily, original. On the same evening in each Ward
in a Stake, the various unit routines are pro—
duced. Through clever scheduling and minute or—
ganization, in a given Stake of eight Wards there
would be, during the evening, identical programs
in the eight Stake areas. Besides the large number
of participants involved, few halls are able to ac-
commodate the numerous spectators present.

Throughout the Church program excellence of
performance is emphasized as well as mass par-
ticipation. There is a system of friendly competi—
tion in which each Ward attempts to put forth its
best performers. These in turn vie with those of
other Wards in the Stake, those of the Stakes in
turn compete, and eventually many of the activi-
ties rcach Church-wide proportions. The Church

sponsors a huge nationwvide basketball league with
thousands participating weekly, and promotes a
similar participation in the dance, culminating in a
gigantic dancing festival each year in Salt Lake
City. In 1941 the Ward produced more than
5,000 plays, with some 68,000 players. All of this
presents more than a garden—variety incentive to
participate, and one may excel in dramatics who
has little taste of talent for athletics. Many of
these activities have been modified or otherwise
adjusted for the duration of the war.

The wide range of interests is developed by
starting participants out young. Dancing skills
begun in the Primary thus become a problem of
perfecting and developing as the years roll by.
The various Mormon meetings furnish a labora—
tory in which the many individuals can perform,
for such gatherings almost always include activi-
ties of a recreational nature such as musical and
dramatic numbers. Thus skills once learned have
plenty of opportunity for expression, and the entire
Church program is coordinated to follow through
with this development. The Geneological Society,
Relief Society, Sunday School, and Priesthood
organizations also join in this recreational partner-
ship and promotion. Other additional supple—
mental outlets for enjoyment, such as the Taber-
nacle Choir and Organ, radio, motion pictures,
and Church-wide outings and gatherings exem-
plified by the annual Old Folks gathering, furnish
examples of this mass achievement.

In Retrospect

The Church recreation program naturale has
its problems and difficulties, but its progressive
and introspective leaders welcome criticism, are
open to suggestion, and strive continually for im-
provement. They are not afraid to try new ways,
if they are better; nor are they reluctant to hold to
the old-fashioned methods if results are effective.

Parts of the Mormon program might be con-
sidered unique, but uniqueness is only a different
way of doing things. Several of their practices,
while not entirely indigenous to the Church, at
least have been time-tested by experience and
found workable. Many similar organizations, after
self-invent/ory and careful perusal of their present
program, might increasingly find opportunities, as.
have the Mormons, to augment their voluntary
leadership plan, incorporate a wider range and
variety of program interests, institute more ex-
tensive participation, encourage finer excellence

(Continued on page 222)

RECREATION

;

For War Workers and Their Families

OXANA, ILLINOIS, is a small com-

munity situated in an extensive

war production area. The people are working
almost exclusively on a twenty-four hour shift
basis. Like other communities, it has schools,
churches, Boy and Girl Scout groups, clubs and
commercial entertainment.

A community building which houses the equip—
ment and facilities to conduct an indoor recreation
program provides for the recreational needs of
both children and adults. Another public building
has ample playground space and is utilized for
other groups and activities. These buildings, to-
gether with the well-equipped playgrounds, pro-
vide the mechanics with which to work. Buildings,
‘ however, are of no value without the proper sched-
uling, organization of activities and use.

What should be the recreation worker’s method
in developing a program in a community where he
or she does not know the problems of that commu-
ity and has no background of the people to be
Served?

The firsr thought is to
develop an all-inclusive
recreation program which
will fill the. interest and
enjoyment needs of all (—

By CHESTER EVANS

This area for small children is operated by the
Recreation Department as an aid to the many
women working in war industries. It is open daily
from 2:00 to 9:00 P. M.. from Monday through
Friday. In the evenings many parents gather here
to play the games for which courts are provided.

ages in the community. \Vith this in
mind, a recreation worker must ap-
proach the clubs, civic organizations, schools,
churches, and individuals of his community to
determine what is being acComplished, how he may
cooperate, and what may be done in other lines.
After this survey he will find that he has invalu-
able information which will serve as a basis for
organizing and conducting future activities.

In Roxana no attention was being given to
music, rhythmics, art, and hobby groups. There
was also a definite lack of community social activi-
ties and a planned activity program for children
of grade school age. Social dancing, a medium of
natural expression that should be conducted in
wholesome suroundings, was being overlooked.

The development of the program at Roxana was
based on the fundamental principle of the right of
all age groups to participate equally in social,
athletic, arts and crafts, and music and dramatics
activities. All leaders had had special training and
their abilities were uti-
lized only in the tields in
which they were inter-
ested and trained. Taking
inventory of the staff, we
found we had instructors

 

JULY 1944

199

200 FOR WAR WORKERS AND THEIR FAMILIES

to carry on programs in play schools, singing and
rhythmics, crafts, and physical activities. These
instructors were responsible for developing pro-
grams in their field and of interesting the commu-
nity in their activity.

Members of the community were happy to act
as advisors to aid the director and leaders in plan-
ning the activities of the various groups. Care was
taken in the selection of these advisors, who Were
chosen not only for their special abilities but also
as key members. of the community representing
the churches, schools, and clubs.

In one case, a member serving as advisor for
crafts was the industrial arts instructor of the high
school, while another serving as advisor for physi-
cal activities was the coach of the grade school.
The president of the Women’s Club was music
advisor. These people proved very helpful through
the suggestions and interest they brought to the
program. Not only did individuals of the com-
munity assist as advisors but also as volunteer
leaders.

A recreation program, to be successful, must
grow to meet the needs of those it is to serve as
well as utilize to full capacity the facilities, lead-
ership, and equipment available. In starting out,
the activities followed should fill
the needs of the majority in all
age group levels, branching out
into the recreation fields to create
new interests, new activities, and
new experiences for the individual.

In following this pattern at
Roxana, groups were first classi-
tied into play school, first grade.
second grade, third grade, fourth
grade, fifth grade, junior boys,
junior girls, intermediate boys,
intermediate girls, young men,
young women, adult men, adult
women. With this group classifi-
cation, programs were developed
in the social, physical, arts and
crafts, music and dramatic fields.

An over-all plan for a season’s
program was sketched by the
leader in each field for each group
served. Forms were provided for
the use of workers in preparing a
detailed program for every meet-
ing of each group in an activity.

On our playgrounds, every
group whose members were old

enough to function as a club elected officers and
conducted regular meetings with the advisor of
their group. They set up rules to be followed in
their relationship with each other, other groups,
and in the use and care of equipment, facilities,
and supplies. These clubs provided a means of ex-
pressing ideas, wishes, and interests as well as
aiding the instructors and director in handling
problems of conduct.

, Following this same plan with adult groups,
leaders of the community were so organized that
the director with little effort could develop func—
tions on a community-wide plan. This provided
the town with both social functions and a basis for
quick mobilization of individuals to back the war
effort.

Roxana was one of the first communities to be
served by the St. Louis Mobile Blood Donor Unit.
Arrangements were completed by the Director of
Recreation with the Chapter Director of the Blood
Donor Service to have the St. Louis Unit set up

(Continued on page 221)

-

A marble tournament is one of the series
of special activities provided for chil-
dren living in the defense housing unit

 

‘— -..-. -.

Recreation Has a Job to Do

national asset. We

dare not waste it. Yet
we shall waste it in the
most vicious way if we
fail to provide the lead*
ership and guidance
which will enable our
youth to develop prop-
erly, strong in body, alert
in mind, and sensitive in
spirit.

YOUTH IS OUR greatest

We need to recognize
that on the home front . I 
we have a more or less “25:: 
continual war, a war be- i
tween the forces of law
and order and those per-
sons who have evinced _
criminal tendencies. I want also to call to your
attention the fact that the law enforcement agen-
cies of the land are hard pressed in peace time in
their efforts to combat crime. In time of war they
have many additional duties, usually with accom-
panying decrease in personnel, so that the load
upon them is tremendous. For that reason I say
that crime prevention programs on the part of all
good citizens and organizations are needed now
more than ever before.

I would also remind you of the fact, lest we
become complacent with reference to the existence
Of crime in the United States, that we do have in
this country a grossly excessive amount of crime.
. . . That recreation has a job to do is clearly indi-
cated by the large amount of juvenile crime. The
question of what is the extent of this delinquency
is one which is distinctly very difficult to answer
with any degree of exactitude.

Photo by F Iood

What Are the Causes of Delinquency?

We all know that the causes of crime are multi-
tudinous, but let’s devote
just a moment’s consider—
ation to the question:
What are the causes for
the present upswing in
juvenile delinquency and
crime?

The following is a sum-
marization of the reasons

JULY 1944

Some extracts from an address made at the«
Ninth Annual Chicago Recreation Conference
on November l2I I943. by Inspector Harbo.
Assistant to J. Edgar Hoover. Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Copies
of the Proceedings of the Conference are
Municipal Reference

Library. City Hall. Chicago 2. at 75 cents.

available from the

    

By R. T. HARBO

 

9,........»_ai

Courtesy Caspar, Wyoming, Tribune Herald

given recently by a number of police chiefs, juve-
nile court judges and probation officers: First, the
breakdown of family ties and other domestic
troubles; second, adults working regular hours,
with children not receiving needed home super-
vision; third, many juveniles are employed. They
are earning more money than they have been ac—
customed to or probably ever hoped for at this
stage of their lives, and as a result they are doing
more drinking and running around late at night.
Fourth, numerous gangs of juveniles have been
formed, engaged too frequently in unwholesome
activities. And hfth, the general laxity on the
part of adults makes a great difference.

What are the specific reasons given by youth
themselves? We find they fall into two main cate-
gories: First, the lack of adequate, wholesome
recreation facilities and opportunities; second, the
nonobservance and nonenforcement of laws on the
part of adults.

In the press from time to time, we frequently
observe editorial utterances emphasizing the fact
that the teachings of ma—
terialism must be replaced
by the God-given laws of
morality if we are to re*
duce crime. Of course it is
widely accepted that in at-
tempting to combat crime
we should make an attempt
to stop it at its source;

201

202 RECREATION HAS A JOB TO DO

that is, to undertake crime prevention activities.
Certainly the problem of crime committed by youth
is so vast and so complex that if it is to be ade-
quater met and solved, it calls for the combined
resources of the entire community. Certainly it
seems safe to predict that unless substantial im-
provements occur, based upon what has happened
in the past, we can say that within the next few
years hundreds of thousands of boys and girls of
school age will be enrolled in the army of crime.

Points in a Community-Wide Crime
Prevention Program

I would like to outline very briefly some sug-
gestions which I believe would constitute impor—
tant points in a community-wide crime prevention
program. They don’t all deal specifically with the
recreational phase of the work, naturally, but you
will note that recreation activities occupy a promi—
nent place in this general outline, which is as
follows:

I. Study the local problem
of delinquency and crime. De-
fine it as clearly as possible.
Find out whether there are in-
creases or decreases in the par-
ticular community under study.
Although we have, let us say,
a 40 per cent increase through-
out the nation on the average,
it may be that in one commu-
nity we may have 100 per cent or more increase;
whereas in another more fortunate community we
may have a decrease.

2. Establish a coordinating program which will
tend to develop cooperation and coordination of
the programs and activities of the several official
and private agencies which seek to direct the ac-
tivities of youth along constructive channels. That
is very important because in every community we
have a large number of agencies, some official,
some private. We need to get maximum results
with what we have. We need to reduce to a
minimum the amount of duplication, overlapping
or competition.

3. Ascertain whether or not there has been a
population increase in the community and, if so,
whether there has been an accompanying propor-
tionate increase in the police personnel.

4. The local law enforcement agency ought to
have a special crime prevention unit or at a mini-

mum assign the most capable personnel to handle
this type of work.

"The twofold iob of recreation is to
help build healthyindividuals—healthy
in body. mind. and spirit. and to help
develop useful citizens who appreci-
a’re keenly the advantages of our form
of government. and who are eager.
willingI and capable of contributing
their full share to its preservation.
Recreation has a real iob'to do!"

5. Study and ascertain the high delinquenc
areas and then check recreational facilities to se
whether or not the recreational program is real!
being concentrated in those areas.

6. Work for the strengthening and possible ex
pansion of programs of agencies which provid
wholesome spare-time activities for youth, such as:
schools, recreation departments of the local govern
ment, churches, Y.M.C.A., Y.VV.C.A., boys’ clubs
girls’ clubs, and other similar agencies.

7. Seek to re-emphasize the character-buildin
functions of schools and churches. We need to re
vitalize the conviction that there is a definite dis
tinction and difference between what is right an
what islwrong. With reference to the field of rec-
reation, certainly it helps to develop this convic—
tion if we get the boys and girls when they are
participating in competitive sports to play strictl
according to the rules. i

8. Make a survey of the part-time work per—
formed by boys and girls 0
school age, to see that it i
suited to their ages and capaci
ties and that the hours are not
excessive.

I want to emphasize also th
notion of encouraging thrift
because these boys and girls
who are working are earning
more money that they' eve
hoped to earn at this stage i
their lives. If they spend that money, they are
going to develop habits and tastes that they wil 1
not be able to meet with postwar incomes, which
may lead some persons to resort to unlawful mean
of satisfying those tastes and habits.

9. Check on the problem of truancy. The migra
tion of families resulting from economic condition
contribute to truancy, and truancy is one of th
first steps down the path leading to other mor
serious acts of delinquency and crime.

10. Encourage boys and girls over the age 0
compulsory attendance laws to continue their edu
cation. The temptation of easy money might caus
some of them to decide to defer their educatio
temporarily. Of course, the danger is that the) i
will not return and resume their educational train-I
ing, and there is further the observation to b "
noted that easy money is too frequently spen'|
unwisely. d}

II. Encourage church groups to intensify thei
efforts to increase the number of boys and girls
brought into Sunday schools; and, of course,

RECREATION

RECREATION HAS A JOB TO DO

emphasis there should be placed on reaching those
persons most in need of the program. The same is

true with reference to the various young peoples"

leagues sponsored by the various denominations.

12. Impress upon parents through parent-teacher
associations and other groups the importance of
home discipline, guidance and control, especially
during this war period. .Regardless of their nat-
ural confidence in their children, parents should
analyze the problem as it pertains to their own
home, take an inventory of the amount of unsuper—
vised time on the part of their children, and make
sure it is spent in wholesome activity.

I should like to mention at this point that some
time ago I read of a west coast city which has
started a program of study groups for parents of
adolescent and young children. When the parent
or parents of a delinquent child are brought before
the judge charged with contributing to the delin-
quency of a minor, part of the disposition of that
case consists in the order by the judge that the
parents attend a series of study groups. The plan
calls for eight sessions,
meeting once a week for a
period of eight weeks.

Youth needs urgently all the wholesome recrea-
tional opportunities an awakened community
~ can provide. Out-ot-door life is one of these.

203

There the parents. receive lectures from first a rep-
resentative of the city legal department concerning
the legal responsibility of the parent for the child;
second, a lecture from a representative of the
school system concerning the educational respon—
sibility; and third, a similar lecture from a repre—
sentative of the recreation department; fourth, one
from the churches; and so on, to complete a well—
rounded course of lectures and instructions for the
parents.

I recall that the account indicated that this
series of Study groups was also open to parents
who wanted to attend voluntarily, and that the
nt'1mber who did so vastly exceeded the number of
those requested to do so by the judge.

I 3. Carry on a program generally for the pur-
pose of maintaining high standards in the local
police department, with the local prosecutors and
with the local courts. If any one of those three
links is weak, then the administration of criminal
laws in a community will fall short of the ideal.

And finally, it should be noted and underscored
that program
should be a continuing one
in nature.

any such

 

lULY 1944

204

Crime conditions in the United States indicate
to me very clearly the need for moral and spiritual
reawakening. The philosophy that anything is all
right if you can get by with it needs to be defi—
nitely rejected and thrown out of American think-
ing and living. We need to guard against the
notion being entertained by our youth that they
can get by with performance which is Short of
honest effort. I think we need to set higher stand—
ards of performance for our youth and then give
them more encouragement to attain those standards.

Make Recreation Challenging!

Recreation activities should challenge youth and
cause them to develop physically, mentally, and
Spiritually. Youth is vigorous, energetic and in—
quisitive, and the recreation program must be
suited to its needs. Recreation leaders have a
strong influence over youth, sometimes greater
than that of parents and teachers. This, of course,
brings a great responsibility. Among other things,
recreation leaders should bring to the attention of
youth the importance of the kind of record they
are making. Each boy’s record, good, bad, or in—
different, is his individual responsibility, and it
will, of course, have a vital effect upon his future
career. I am speaking not only with reference to
conduct which is so definitely antisocial as to be
labeled criminal in character, But also concerning
such matters as a good scholastic record, prompt-
ness, courtesy, reliability and other everyday
virtues.

Recreation leaders should warn young people
that they jeopardize their future careers if they
are thoughtless, careless and indifferent as to the
quality of the records they are making today, just
because it is easy to get a job at the present time.

The predominance of youth in crime is certainly
not a pleasant picture. It falls far short of the
ideal of American citizenship. For that reason I
believe we need to stress more today than ever
before the fact that our form of government not
only bequeaths rights and privileges upon its citi—
zens, but also carries with it duties and obligations
which must be accepted and fulfilled by each in—

dividual.

I realize that you can’t reach to young people
and expect them to react faiibrably to such thoughts
as I have just expressed. But at the same time I
know that youth is fundamentally idealistic, and
I believe that there is plenty of opportunity to use
illustrations from current events to get these ideas
over—incidental to the recreation program.

RECREATION HAS A JOB TO DO

I know personally and very intimately the mem-
ber of a crew of one of our Flying Fortresses
which is out of the country, and I know from dis—
cussion with him of the highly deveIOped and keen
sense of obligation each crew member has toward
all the others. Those fellows individually and col-
lectively would not want to go up in that Flying
Fortress on a mission unless they had full con—
fidence in the fact that each other member of that
crew felt fully his obligation to the group. That
is the sort of feeling we need to develop, and we
can make some contribution toward that goal
through our recreation programs.

The home, the school, and the church must be
expected to play major roles in bringing about
improvement in the conditions to which I have
referred. Homes worthy of_ the name will do so,
but unfortunately some homes have failed, with
the result that all of the constructive inHuences of
the community must endeavor to provide the youth
from such homes with the necessary guidance. The
urgent need for all of the wholesome recreational
opportunities which an awakened community can
provide should be obvious even to those who run
as they look. This is true in peacetime. In time
of war the force of circumstances is such as to
multiply the need.

Unforunately, in most cities the need far exceeds
the recreational opportunities available to youth.
The least that can be expected in each city is that
maximum use be made of all existing facilities and
that emphasis be placed upon providing a high
type of personnel to lead and guide our youth in
their use of the facilities.

“After the last war there began to be an increas-
ing amount of talk about Youth, the Younger
Generation, and Young People. And after this war
there will be even more such talk. . . . Nothing is
more depressing than perpetual youth, and if the
youth of any generation become self—conscious about
their youngness per se, so that they tend to think

of themselves absurdly as members of a Youth I

Class, they risk never growing up.

“All of us, always, are in a state of preparation
for what is ahead. So let us permit-neither flattery
nor scolding to. cause us to be ‘frozen’ on the level
of any of our ages. . . .

“A youth is only somebody not yet old, and an
old person is somebody who might have gone
further if he’d got started sooner.”—-——Booth Tark-
ington in an editorial in The Mmerican School
Weekly N ews, January 3, 1944.

RECREATION

l
I
I

Navy Men List Recreation Preierences

 

EVERAL MONTHS AGO, over 2,000‘ question— type of recreation activities desired by the men
S naires were sent out by the Welfare and Rec- there. The questionnaires were returned by 1,107
reation Department, U. S. Naval Receiving men who checked the activities they liked in six
Barracks, Shoemaker, California, to find out the different recreational classiiications.
I
Maior and Minor Team Games Weight Lifting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Basketball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 682 Fencing - - o - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 52 _
Baseball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 650 Navy P- F - Tests - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 32
Basketball Type Contest . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
Softball ....................... .. 644 Music
Kickball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Quartets . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Volley Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 84 Instrumental  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 104

Football . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 544 Glee Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106

Touch Football . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 58 Sing Song . . . . . . . . . .1. . . . . . . . . . . . . 220

Six-Man Football . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 56

Soccer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108 Recrea’rion Sporf Confesfs

DOdgeball ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ' ' ° ' ' ° ' ' ° ' ° ' H 124 Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 312

BOXball ° '  ' ' ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 26 Paddle Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118

Farball (Stickball) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 Hand Tennis o I o I I o . . I . . I . I ' o I o  . 92

Trad‘ ' ° ° ' ' ° ' ' ' ° ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ° ' ' ' ' ' " 252 Paddle Handball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91

Relays . . . . - . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -' “0 Handball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 149

country Run ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' " 84 Badminton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I82

Obstacle Course Run . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Deck Tennis ' ' I

_ I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73

H1_k_mg ' ' °  ' ' ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ° ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ' ° .122 Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 666 .

Mllitary Drill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 65 Horseshoes (Quoits) o . I ' o o I o I o c ' H 350

Social Acfivmes .Roller Skating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 501

Social Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I 34 EIOCk GOlf i i i I ' ' I c i i c i ' i ' I ' ' ° ' ' H 48

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 716 OK HOCkey ° ' ' i ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' H 46

Picnics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 402

Parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 412 Rama-Hon Table Games

Individual Sport Contests

Swimming—Naval Aquatics . . . . . . . . 326

Boxing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 326

Wrestling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 172

Hand-to-Hand Contests . . . . . . . . . . . . 42

Judo . . . . . . .2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 134

Gymnastics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94

Tumbling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 102

Stunts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
JULY 1944

Table Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160

Pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 884

' Carrom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

Billiards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 207

Cards (Bridge, etc.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 222

Checkers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 277

Chess . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100

Darts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 17.6

Shuffieboard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 5 5

Miscellaneous Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V 56

205

u\X/e Need Each Other"

HEN SONS of \Vebster
Groves, Missouri, fami—
lies got into trouble
and had to be punished by
the law, this well-to—do com-
munity had a problem of
juvenile delinquency on its
hands. That was more than a
year ago. Even though most
of the parents argued that they could look out after
their teen age children, the need for something
tangible was apparent.
It was then that the city officials and the mayor
got together to discuss the situation. They realized_

that a recreational program was requisite not only _

for juniors but for all age groups—especially when
summer came and gas restrictions made it impos-
sible to drive the children to the country for week
ends and the longer vacations in Michigan as ,had
been done formerly.

The task of setting up such a program fell to
the lot of the Community Activities Committee.
The Mayor warned, “It will be the toughest as—
signment you ever tackled,” and the Committee
found his words a gross understatement. Disre-
garding obstacles, however, Committee members
got busy.

No funds were available for the purpose so
volunteer personnel had to be drafted from willing
workers and a council of helpful directors was set
up. Although some well-meaning folks thought
paid leadership should come in and take over,
others were of a mind to put their shoulders to the
wheel and direct their own civic recreation project.

A thirteen point program was under way by the
time school closed. Webster Groves Day was de-
clared a holiday and the town turned out for a
colorful parade to the high school field where
events lasted all day.

In the big armory, booths

By JANE HOLMAN

Mrs. Holmanl who serves as Chairman
of the Community Activities Committee
of Webster GrovesI Missouril tells of
the splendid work the committee has
done to provide a recreation program

for this community of 20,000 people.

was inaugurated a broad,
free, civic program and a
talent bureau—all catalogued.
Playgrounds were Opened
in the schools and mothers
" volunteered as leaders. When
the session ended, a big pic-
nic was given for all at the
town’s great Open tract of
land known as “Forty Acres.”

An outdoor stage was needed. What a prob—
lem! A sectional wooden structure was proposed.
No wood. Still the Committee did not lose hope.
Finally the city engineers came through with a
plan to use cement which was on hand. The day ' I
the workers waded knee deep through tough weeds
to lay out the locations was a happy occasion.
N ow real productions and dances could be given.

Until the large 30’ x 50’ stage was ready, fire-
men spread tarpaulins for the teen-agers to dance
on. But what about seats? Well, the Committee
thought fast and asked the school officials to lend
them the movable bleachers for summer. An archi—
tect designed and helped “to construct a pretty
trellis for the stage.

July 5th was the Opening day. At noon, noth-
ing much had been done. Poles had to be set for
the floodlights which were borrowed from the

’ firemen. Long tiers of seats needed to be put up.

Grounds had to be cleared. The Committee phoned
the city hall, men left their desks, and with all
available city laborers, went to work with a will.
They climbed poles on ladders and by 6:00 P. M.
even the orchestral lights were ready. City papers
sent-their press photographers out.

A grand march, led by city officials and their
wives and the town’s dancing teacher, opened the
performance. Later the public showed its appre-
ciation by dancing gaily ’til
late hours. High school

displayed what the town had
grown, made, and done. The
results of invitations to ex-
hibit everything portable
were amazing. At day’s end
a fine program of home tal-
ent was presented out of
doors with the Mayor as
master of ceremonies. Thus

206

"Community planners can take heart in the
knowledge that much of what we call iuve-
nile delinquency is a wholly natural thing.
It is not like some mysterious malady for
which we must find a new and striking remedy.
The greater part of our troubles can be cured
before they start to become real troubles
by the use of tried and true home remedies.
with the ordinary dose doubled or trebled
when necessary."—-Austin H. MaCCOt—
mick in Survey M idmontblg, March I944.

u.

sound equipment furnished
record music. From then on
dancing was a twice weekly
feature. High school boys, ~
members of the Operators
Club, managed the musical
end of the program. Parents
came in large numbers to
watch, and many who had

RECREATION

 

“WE NEED EACH OTHER” 207

not danced in years were soon on
the dance floor.

Dramatic productions, orches-
tral concerts, and dance revues
were aIso presented. No fee is
ever charged for anything given
by the Community Activities
Committee. Soft drinks were dis-
pensed by the boys and girls, and
money from this source consti-
tutes a small fund which provides
decorations for winter indoor
dances. Small children gathered
bottles from under the bleachers
——-—and collected five cents for
every twenty they found. This
money, too, went into the fund.
Even the town’s own solid bicycle
chain served to anchor the needed
cooler to a tree. °

When a store room and dress—
ing rooms were needed, another
problem faced the Committee. No
lumber was available for building. Much second—
hand stage equipment including footlights, flood—
lights, spots, sykes, and frames was bought. But
still, in their Committee basement, the equipment
was too far away.

One day, however, they noticed an old tumble—
down “7 PA office on wheels way back in the city
yards. It belonged to the city engineerwho, because
of its frailty, had not trans—
ported it to his farm where
he had use for it. The Com-
mittee dared to ask for this
and it was given generously
while council members
wanted to know how they’d
ever get the old swayback
out to Forty Acres—but
their spirits would not' be
dampened.

A tractor started it along
its way and eventually
pulled up behind the stage
——all in one piece. New
shingles were added and a
platform or ramp built to
take the borrowed piano on
and off stage. Lights were
installed by a good-natured
neighbor who took over the
entire lighting system and

.1

Education.

JULY 1944

Webster GrovesI whose recreational his-
tory is related here' is working successfully
through a volunteer committee to accom-
plish its objectives. Its near-by neighbor.
St. Louis. is tackling its problems through done.
the Division of Recreation of the Board of

As one effort to set up wholesome recre-
ation centers for teen-agersI the Division
of Recreation has opened 30 school build-
nigs and plans to open 20 more as rapidly
as possible. While a few of the centers are
of the general community center type. the
majority are athletic centers serving boys
l2 years of age and over. Two centers are
open afternoons for girlsI volley ball' and
two provide dancing for teen-agers once a
week. In the spring about 4.000 boys and
girls attended the centers. (Information

from The Journal of Health and Physi—
cal Education, May.)

 

 

(lid a professional job for productions, begging and
cajoling dealers for material.

Supper dances were enjoyed by adult groups.
and square dancing took its turn with costumed,
well-trained men and women teaching. Handbills
were distributed for large events. A poster studio
in the cool basement was operated by boys and
girls who designed artistic announcements for all
events. The town’s weekly
newspaper, l’Vebsfer Grows
News Times, continues to
give the programs much
front page space and thus
the simple advertising is

With the outdoor season
ended, the Committee turned
its activities to indoor events.
The very successful athletic
league, which had twenty-
seven softball teams playing
on three fields, gathered
basketball church teams for
winter games. The softball
team winners received
trophies presented by the
city at an evening's gala
meeting in the city hall. A
minister and a Catholic

(Confirmed on page 222)

Wrestling—A Swiss National Sport

of life are primitive and hard, and strong hands

and tempered muscles are a necessity, the male
population is fond of strenuous sports and games
which, for the most part, consist of sheer tests of
strength. On Sundays the men often visit the
local inns and demonstrate their strength by finger-
gripping and “barging,” perhaps the most primi-
tive form of friendly combat. Very often these
informal meetings result in the planning of a
match.

In the Alpine valleys, where cattle rearing and
dairy farming are the only' livelihood of the in-
habitants, wrestling has
been the traditional form
of contest since
time immemo—
rial. “Schwin-
gen,” as it is
called, has rules
of its own which
are quite differ-
ent from those

IN THE SWISS MOUNTAINS, where the conditions

in force inter-
nationally. The
m a t c h t a k e S
place in a
meadow where
a sawdust cov—
e r e d r i n g i s
marked out for
the purpose.
The contest is
refereed by old,
e x p e r i e n c e d
wrestlers. Spe—
cial wrestling
trousers are
Slipped on over
t h e o r d in a r y
.Ones and strap-
ped around the
loins. The two

opponents are
matched ac-
cording to size
and skill, and
the contest be-
gins with a

208

At a May Sunday festival and wrestling match
in the Sertig Valley near DavosI Switzerland

 

friendly handshake. Fairness and self-control are a
point of honor.

After the two fighters have “engaged” by grip-
ping each other by the trouser belts in the small
of the back with the right hand, and the right
trouser leg with the left hand, the umpire gives
the signal for starting the bout. Each wrestler then
tries to swing the other into the air (hence the
name “Schwingen”), with the object of getting
him down with his back flat on the ground. Often
when the opponents are evenly matched they try
to overpower each other by using the most varied
kinds of “short” and “long” throws, overthrows,
and numerous other tricks.
But since the only permis-
sible grip is
on the leather
trousers,the
match may last
a long time.
Suddenly one of
the wrestlers
will begin to tire 1

,o '9"
_.
t

and is over-
powered by a
skillful, unex- :
pected throw. ~
T h e h i g h e s t
n u m b e r o f '
points obtained
decides the win-
n e r o f t h e
m a t c h ; t h e
n u m b e r o f
r o u n d S w o n ,
the skill of the
pected throw.
and the tactics
of attack and
defense being
considered in
the count.

At national
wrestling festi—
vals the King ‘
of Wrestlers is l
crowned with a
laurel wreath by
. p the Queen of7 the
Photo by E. Meerkc‘imper ' MaidsofHonor.

RECREATION

. lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

IRDS. “The Illustrated Encyclopedia of

American Birds,” by Leon Augustus Haus-
man, Ph.D. Illustrated by Jacob Bates Abbott, pp.
i-xx+ 541. Halcyon House, New York. 1944.
$1.98. Alphabetically arranged.

Burroughs, John, (April 3, 1837-April 3, 1921).
It was Burrough’s Day in Toledo on April 12,
1918, when the Pietro statue was presented to the
children of the city. W illoughby, Ohio, has a
Burrough’s Nature Club for
the conservation of Ohio’s
‘ woods and wildlife. The
Club is in its twenty—ninth
year and was recently intro-
duced to the largest slippery
elm in the United States—
15 feet 5 inches in circum—
ference at 4% feet from the
ground:

Films. Castle Distribut-
ing Corp., 30 Rockefeller
Plaza, New York 20. Free
educational 16 mm. sound
lilms. Send for a catalog.
Now available: “Ever Since
Eden,” a historical film on
America’s great contribu-
tion to food—the tomato.
Time——-forty minutes.

“Garden Flowers in Color,” by Daniel  Foley.
The Macmillan Company, New York. 319 pp.,
illus. $1.98.

Gardening. “Victory Garden Surplus.” U. S.
Government Printing Office, 1943. (Folder—16
pp.) Illustrated. (AWL—59.) Five cents per copy,
$1 per 100 copies. Single copies free from Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

Gardening. “A Victory Gardener’s Handbook
on Insects and Diseases.” U. S. Department of

Agriculture. 30 pp., illus., paper, ten cents. Misc.
Publication No. 525.

Lumber. “This Fascinating Lumber Business,”
by Stanley F. Horn. Bobbs-Merrill, New York.
328 pp., illus. $3.75.

Nature Guides—Women. The Mt. Tom com—
mission of H olyoke, Massachusetts, has elected

JULY 1944

 

Patricia Jennings and Frances Gillotti as nature
guides for the summer of 1944. They are juniors
at Massachusetts State College and are majoring
in nature recreation leadership.

Nature Recreation. According to a recent ‘sur-
vey made by Popular Science magazine, more
adults in the United States have some sort of a
nature hobby than any other one subject. A Is that
true in your community? If so, how does it affect

your program?

Plants. “Edible Wild
Plants,” by Oliver Perry
Medsger. Complete identifi-
cations. The Macmillan
Company, New York. Illus.
$3.50.

Roadside Beauty. Persons
observed cutting trees and
dumping trash along the
roads are vandals. High—

.. way departments give much
study to the program. of
planting. Because of the
manpower shortage patri-
otic citizens should protect
their own property by re—
porting vandalism' to the
State Highway Commission.

Trail Rangers of America,

Michael, Illinois, is for homeless children who are

established in a year-round camp and wilderness
area with subsistence farming as a background.

The motto is “Freedom in a Prepared Environ-

ment.” Rev. George Link is the camp Father.

“The greatest line art of the future will be the

making of a comfortable living from a small piece
of land.”—Abraha1n Lincoln.

Tree Planting School. Legislation passed in
Indiana in 1941 requires each company stripping
land for coal to plant an acreage equal to that
stripped yearly. Fifty mine operators and mem-
bers of the State Division of Forestry were wel-
comed to Linton, Indiana, by the Mayor on Feb-
ruary 24, 1944. The meeting was held in the new
clubhouse of the Linton Conservation Club.

(Continued on page 218)

Gedge H armon

Britain Welcomes the Americans

HE ENGLISH people often
regard themselves as cold

and inhospitable, and they
don’t like to be that way. Their
sons who are training for the
Air 'Force in America write
home about the wonderful hos-
pitality of the Americans and
Canadians, and wish the home
folks could do as well for the American soldiers in
England. Actually the home folks are not as shy
and awkward as they think; They have done an
immense amount to make the Americans feel at
home. Few Americans know how much, becauSe
the effort takes so many different forms in differ-
ent places.

Even before the US. troops arrived in force,
town committees were organized all over the area
where they were to be stationed to provide for
welcome and hOSpitality. At the beginning they
asked families to invite Americans to dinner and
thousands of invitations poured in. The Bedford
committee, for instance, received 500 invitations in
the first week. This plan had the advantage of not
requiring any special equipment, but it did not
work as well as expected. The Americans turned
out to be ’shy about ringing a strange doorbell and
announcing themselves as dinner guests—to the
rather pained surprise of the British, who thought
they themselves were the only shy people in the
world. Another influence, according to some of
the Americans, was the excellent pamphlet on
England that was handed to them on the way over,
which explained the rationing system and warned
them about eating up the food of private families.
They were much more ready to accept billets, and
the Bedford committee soon had a list of homes
where an American could be put up overnight. In
the meantime the committee obtained three rooms
over a store on the main street and started to serve
coffee and sandwiches. The Americans promptly
made themselves at home by penetrating into the
kitchen, washing dishes, and making sandwiches.
Then they got up dances at their camps, and the
Women’s Voluntary Service supplied girls in
batches of thirty or more at a time. From that
point on, the dining out problem solved itself by
natural processes.

This is only one example of how a community

210

By DAVID CUSHMAN COYLE

This article originally appeared in the
November I943 issue of The Out-
post, a magazine which is published
by Americans in Britain and which
represents their personal opinions.

worked out the methods for
making the Americans feel wel-
come. The methods in each
locality, and the degree of suc-
cess, depended on the local re-
sources and leadership, and in
part on the understanding and
cooperation of the local Ameri-
can command.

Abounding Hospitality

All the British service clubs, the Women’s Vol-
untary Service, Salvation Army, Y.M.C.A., Church
Army, Sailors’ Society, and other canteens have
offered a welcome to Americans. More than thirty
British Army, Navy, and Air Force canteens were
opened especially for Americans. In fifteen places
in East Anglia, where there were not enough
Americans to justify locating American Red Cross
canteens, British organizations have made special
provision to take care of Americans in the British
canteens. About half of these canteens are operated
by the British Y.M.C.A.; the others are under the
\V.V.S., Salvation Army, Church Army and Cath-
olic Women’s League.

Where there are many American troops, the
American Red Cross has been encouraged to open
canteens, often with large sleeping accommodation
for men on leave. The British authorities lend the
buildings, renovate them, and supply the furniture,
all without cost to the. Red Cross. This is regarded
as a kind of reciprocal lend—lease, but no account is
kept of it in money. Buildings and furniture are
not to be reckoned in money, because they are

priceless in England and cannot be obtained at all-

except by priority.

British children are doing much to cement the
friendship of the two countries. At Christmas time
many Americans were too shy to accept invitations
to dinner in British homes (last Christmas there
were fifty invitations for every American soldier
in Britain), but they attended Christmas parties
staged by Rotary Clubs and other organizations.
Some of the Army posts gave parties for English
children, and a wonderful time was had by all.
These children’s parties probably did as much as
anything else to bring Americans into relations of
personal friendship with English families. Many
English schools are studying America; sometimes

(Continued on page 2]?)

RECREATION

“

WORLD AT PLAY

 

OTTO A. SCHOITZ of
\Vaterloo, Iowa, has
presented to the city
in memory of his wife,
Charlotte L. Schoitz, a $10,000 municipal swim-
ming pool. The pool and adjacent grounds will
constitute Schoitz Memorial Park. The pool is
. 240 feet long and 90 feet wide. '

Swimming Pool
Donated to Waterloo

 

 

THE National Recrea-
tion Association was
represented at the 1944
Youth Conference
sponsored by Rotary International May 5th in
New York City with Daniel F. Lincoln, chairman
of the Rotary Youth Committee, presiding. Also
represented were service clubs including Kiwanis,
Optimist, Exchange and Zonta; and organizations
serving youth including the Boy Scouts, Girl

Scouts, Boys’ Clubs of America, Future Farmers,
Camp Fire Girls, 4—H and Y.M.C.A.

The first point considered was how better co-
operation can be secured between the united ser-
vice clubs in the various cities and the agencies
which serve youth. There was unanimous agree-
ment that a greater effort should be made to give
concrete information to the leaders in the service
clubs in the localities about what is being done and
what is needed.

Rotary Sponsors Youth
Conference

JULY 1944

 

An Anniversary
Banquet

 

IN ArfRIL of this year the
Pasadena, California, De-
partment of Recreation
completed its twenty-one
years of service. The
Executive Council ar—
ranged an anniversary
banquet to pay honor to
the nine presidents who
have served during the
twenty-one years. Honor
awards were presented
and entertainment was
provided by the young
people participating in the
activities of the Department of Recreation.

Acme Photo

THE New York City
Museum of Modern
Art recently featured
an exhibition series of
posters entitled “Look at Your Neighborhood,”
which stressed the role of the individual layman
and citizen in neighborhood planning. Posters
enumerated the facilities necessary in a good
community, and urged citizens to study the local
problems, examine their resources and plan to use
them wisely in “building for better living.”

“Look at Your
Neighborhood"

CORPORAL Murray
Geller, who in 1940
provided us with two
games, Shuffle Bocci
and Ringo, directions for which were sent out
through the Recreation Bulletin Service, writes
that they proved the most popular games on the
transport going across. Says Corporal Geller:
“The chaplain in charge of ship’s recreational
activities had copies of the bulletins for future
voyages. 1We found that Shuffle Bocci completely
supplanted the older ShufHeboard, possibly because
the game is much simpler to mark out, requiring
only two large circles. Incidentally, we play Shuf—
HeBocci (we changed the name to ShufHeOE) with
four round-as-possible coconuts, two painted green

From Somewhere in
New Guinea

211

212 FROM PLAYGROUND TO PUB

W it]: the

ARMY

N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every fighting
front; in every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion.

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

and two red. Of course the game would be better
with heavy wooden balls instead of coconuts which
contrarin refuse to grow perfectly round!”

Community Buildings as War Memorials—
The Commonwealth Council for National Fitness,
Commonwealth of Australia, at its seventh session
held at Canberra passed a resolution urging upon
all public authorities that war memorials should
take the form of community recreation centers or
similar institutions. "

Dogwood for Wheeling’s Highways—In the
annual dogwood campaign, the Wheeling, West
Virginia, Landscape Commission ordered five hun-
dred dogwood trees to be held in the nursery in
Oglebay Park for future use in planting along the
highways. The dogwood campaign is sponsored
by the Wheeling Garden Center, whose aim is to
promote projects for the beautification of homes,
parks and highways in the city. This marked the
third year of the campaign, and, as in other years,

10,000 dogwood trees were made available to the
local citizens.

From Playground to Pub

HUNDRED YEARS AGO someone praised the en—
closure of common lands which had been
going on in England. An indignant person replied
in a letter which The Times republished last week
after 100 years.

The unknown, but righteous man, wrote:

“I remember men, boys, and girls, each in their
way, playing happily on the common lands. . . .
Cricket, quoits, football, and many other manly
sports were then enjoyments within reach of the
poorer orders of society, and brought them in con-
tact with the classes above them—a state of things
in which each found advantage. '

“\Vhat' are the amusements of the poor now,
and where alone are they to be had? The men are
reduced to four-corners, bowls, dominos, cards,
and dice; and the only places in which room is to
be found even for such games are the public-
houses and beer-shops. . . .

“Eats, balls, stumps, footballs, quoits, &c., and
the games in which they are used, are almost un-
known to the boys of the present generation; for
cricket, hockey, and such like amusements no place
is to be found; they are superseded by marbles,
dumps, and other games. . . . ,

“By enclosures of common lands the old English
games have been destroyed. . . . And then persons
wonder that crimes till lately unknown in England
spring forth as the fruit of such benefits conferred
on the poor.”

Things to Do in Dayton—Addressed to new-
comers of Dayton, Ohio, and with a special mes-
sage from the Mayor urging new residents to
enjoy the spare-time" facilities offered, Things to
D0 in Dayton, a booklet prepared by the OCD,
offers a complete listing of leisure-time facilities
and opportunities. The guide also contains a list
of schools and churches with their addresses.

“American Storybook”———~Under this title the
Los Angeles, California, Recreation Department
is giving the city’s children human interest stories
about famous Americans to balance their present
radio diet so heavily loaded with lone gunmen,
superflashes, and horror thrillers. The stories,
written and narrated by Laura C. Swartz, are
broadcast every Saturday morning at 9:45 over
Station KMTR. Little-known but character-re-
vealing incidents in the lives of such great men and
women of America as Florence Kelly, Justice

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY 213

Oliver Wendell Holmes, Abigail Adams, Benjamin
Franklin, Joseph Lee, and General Robert E. Lee
are related in a manner which appeals not only to
children but to youth and adults. The stories have
captured the interest of a growing circle of juve-
nile listeners and have won the approbation of
parents, school teachers, and recreation leaders.

Buffalo Volunteers—The official bulletin of
the New York State War Council for February
12, 1944, reports that in Buffalo I 3,5 3 5 volunteers
have been trained for service with recreation and
youth agencies.

Texas City Creates Community Forest—
Texas has joined the march of states in the estab-
lishment of town or community forests. One of the
latest Texas communities to create a community
forest on worn out farm land is Palestine. In April
‘1943 the Kiwanis Club of Palestine initiated a
community-wide campaign and enlisted support of
all local agencies—service clubs, parent-leader as-
sociations, school and church groups. In January
of this year the campaign was brought to a suc-
cessful conclusion with a tree planting festival on
the goo-acre tract acquired for the forest. At the
close of the formal program individuals and agen-
cies planted trees on the plot. Located about three
miles from the city the forest will not only be an
economic asset to the community but will be
equally useful as a public recreation area and
sanctuary for birds and small animals.

Las Vegas Hobby Show—More than 1,000
articles were displayed recently at the Las Vegas,
Nevada, lirst annual hobby show sponsored by the
Parent-Teacher Association under the direction
of Kenneth Van Vorst, city recreation director.
The show, which was held in the gymnasium of
the grammar school, included three divisions:
(1) creative activities, consisting of woodwork,
models, mechanical devices, inventions, arts and
crafts; (2) articles such as old books, antiques,
magazines, pressed mounted flowers, puzzles, old
photographs and coins; (3) paper construction,
new books, taxidermy, books on hobbies, Spinning
wheels, old silverware and dishes, etc.

Drama Contest Announced—The National
Thespian Society, College Hill Station, Cincin—
nati 24, Ohio, announces a contest for the best
papers outlining broad and workable postwar pro-
grams for the educational theater. Three subjects

lULY 1944

 

“THE BEST THAT
CAN BE MADE"

 

0 Professional sports must be good or people
won’t pay their money to watch them, but every-
one doesn’t have to come up to professional stand-
ards to get benefit and enjoyment from sports.
The professional’s role is to lead the way, to
stimulate interest . . . to get all the country
playing. Sports can fit you to light and can
help you win. They can keep you “fit” for the
enjoyment of life when the fighting is over.
Like the professionals then, you’ll want the best
in sports equipment, and like great numbers of
leading professionals, you’ll discover that the

best is stamped f‘Wilson.” See your dealer.

Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New York
and other leading cities.

Wuhan

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

% c'hicogo
Goods Mfg. Co., Inc. I’” Plant

Wilson Athletic
IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

214 CHARLES M. COX

are announced—“The Role of the Children’s Thea-
ter in Postwar America”; “The Role of the High
School Theater in Postwar America”; and “The
Role of the College Theater in Postwar America.”

Cash prizes will be awarded for the contest

which will close October I, 1944. Further infor-
mation may be secured from the National Thes-

pian Society.

A Recreation Center for Spanish Speaking
Children—Hundreds of Spanish speaking chil—
dren and youths from Denver’s west side district
have been provided with wholesome recreation
facilities with the opening of the Lawrence Street
Recreation Center. Promoted and sponsored by
the Alianza Service Club, headed by citizens of
Hispanic descent, the center is operated by the
Recreation Department of the city and county of
Denver, Colorado, and a special advisory commit—
tee. It is the only community center in Denver

directed by Spanish speaking people.

The Putney Community Center—For nine—
teen years the Putney, Vermont, Community Cen-
ter has served the 900 residents of that town. Dur-
ing its entire existence the Center has been pri-
vately supported. Ten years ago a community
council made up of young married couples was or-
ganized to assist in raising funds and in the activi-
ties of the Center. Now, ten years later, this same
group has cooperated by carrying on a successful
campaign to raise funds to continue the work of
the Center which carries on varied activities in—
cluding a program of sports for boys and girls, an
orchestra, play production and instruction in sew-

ing and cooking.

Folklore and the Home—“The home is the
first and by far the most important school. The
old-world peasant sings to his child in the cradle
and teaches him the folklore of the race as he
learned it at his mother’s knee. Is our history so
barren it yields no legacy of. ballad, song, and fes-
tival? Our Civil War alone has produced poems
simple enough for a primary school child to
memorize— Barbara Frietchie and Sheridan’s
Ride being the best known.

“If Harriet Beecher Stowe with her seven chil-
dren found time to write Uncle Tom’s Cabin,
surely the twentieth century mother can sandwich
in a story or a poem while she is feeding, bathing
or dressing her child.”—Margaret Lee. Southard.

Charles M. Cox

N JUNE 13TH CHARLES M. Cox died in a
hospital at Melrose, Massachusetts, after a
brief illness. His age was eighty-four.

For more than twenty—seven years Mr. Cox had‘
been deeply interested in the national recreation
movement, caring particularly for boys and for
clubs of boys. At the time of the First World
War he gave about two years of his life as a vol—
unteer to working for the National Recreation
Association in various communities to help 'with
the recreation problems. He gave his full time as
if he were on salary and paid his own expenses as
he went from place to place. Because of all that
he had done in working with boys and because of
his experience as a man of affairs in running a
large business and serving in chambers of com-
merce and other business groups, he was able to
contribute service of a very high order to the vari-
ous communities in which he worked. For many
years he was an honorary member of the National
Recreation Association. Mr. Cox gave to Melrose, '
Massachusetts, the Messenger Playground and the
playgrounds of the Lincoln and Washington
Schools and also the site of the Roosevelt School.

Charles M. Cox spent part of his own leisure in
painting, and at one time he held an exhibition of ‘
his paintings in Boston. He founded the Busi-
nessmen’s Art Club in Boston.

Charles M. Cox was always interested in the
financial support of the Association. He was one
of the pioneers who helped to build the national
recreation movement. HOWARD BRAUCHER

Wild Area Established—~An order officially
designating 18,709 acres of land in the Fremont
National Forest, Oregon, as the “Gearhart Moun-
tain Wild Area” has been issued by the U. S.
Forest Service. The area will be permanently set
aside for maintenance in its wilderness status.

The Gearhart Mountain Area is one of the larg-
est timbered roadless areas remaining in Southern
Oregon. Because of its rugged nature and the
preSence of fine mountain streams and peculiar
geological features it is ideally adapted for wilder-
ness recreational use. No road-building or com-
mercial developments will be allowed in the new
wild area, the Forest Service says.

RECREATION

_A _._,.'¢,1.fu.g..l....e...m¢_ v-“I-u 

'5. '. -
_‘ . . re... L.” ,

 

The War Produc’rion Board

has released ma’reriaIs ’ro us
Io make a limited number of
"Junglegym" Climbing S’rruc-
I‘ures . . . for America's
schools. parks and play-
grounds . . . because.’r|1e
"Junglegym" Climbing S’rruc-
Iure con’rribu’res vi’rally ’ro ’rhe
I1eal’rI1.and proper physical
developmen’r of young
America.

No warIime sacrifice in qual-
i’ry! AII-s’reeI cons’rruc’rion. I‘IO‘I'
galvanized inside and ou’r!

Ins’raIIed size: cen’rer ’rower.
l0’-6” high; ouI'side wall.
325" high; |eng+h. 6'3" THE WORLD-FAMOUS GENUINE

wid+h."8’-4”. CapaciI'y. 35 *
2:11":    “J U N G LE GYM ”
JusIaIewareavaiIable... CL|MB|NG STRUCTURE

for immediate sale . . . firs’r *Reg, u. 5. Patent Office
come, firs’r served!

AND AT THE LOW PRE-WAR CEILING PRICE OF $150

WIRE OR AIR MAIL YOUR ORDER TODAY

 

JULY 1944 215

216 WORLD AT PLAY

 
  

   

ll
I

A Summer Club for High School Students——-
The Colorado Springs, Colorado, School Board
during the past summer sponsored a summer rec-
reation club open to students who graduated from
junior high sch0013 last spring and are entering
the sophomore class in the high school in the fall.
Boys and girls who were graduated from high
school last year were also eligible to membership.
The high school building was used as a center, the
school cafeteria serving as a clubroom from 7:30
to II :00 P. M. Fridays and from 7:30 to 11:30
on Saturdays of each week. Sandwiches, ice cream,
and soft drinks were sold, and a juke box was
used for dancing. An arm of the corridor leading
into the cafeteria end equipped with easy chairs,
tables, and lamps, served as a lounge. Ping-pong,
darts, checkers, chess, and other games were avail-
able. In charge was a committee made up of stu—
dents, parents, and faculty members.

San Francisco’s New Photography Center—
Because of the interest shown by adults, particu-
larly servicemen, in photography, plus the desire
for a more centrally located studio, the San Fran—
cisco Recreation Department has provided a spa-

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MUNICIPAL... RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
' As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the adminiStration aspects of

their department and its correlation with other departments of city government. Special emphasis
g is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play—
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and
reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each

. lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfacrory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently wrote, “'Trnt/afidly I cannot remember any
effort on my part which be: paid ofjc in dividends so quickly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
|3|3 East 60th Street. Chicago 37. IIIinois

    

  
  
 

 

 
     
   
   
      
  
 

  

 
     
   
 

cious photography center which is the amateur
photographer’s dream come true. The center is
primarily organized on a serve-yourself basis.
However, the program is so established as to pro- 1

' vide instruction for those who desire it. Lectures, ‘

moving pictures, exhibits, and contests are ar—-'
ranged to satisfy both the beginner and the ad— I
vanced amateur photographer. There is no charge
for the use of facilities, and all the photography
fan need bring is his own negatives and photo—
graphic paper.

A special invitation is extended to servicemen
and women to make use of these facilities.

A PIan of Action for Recreation

(Continued from page 183)

the proper environment —— soft lights, good
music, decorations. Especially do high school
youth insist upon the proper “atmOSphere.”

6. Emphasize those activities in which large
numbers participate rather than events in
which only a few “stars” take part.

RECREATION

I BRITAIN WELCOMES THE AMERICANS 217

 I  MUNICIPAL PLANNING CALLS FOR
 KNOW-HOW BUYERS. . .

The responsibility of selecting the right seating facilities for a com-
munity center proves a puzzler to those who are not engineers.

If you are concerned about making an investment in bleachers
that will never prove a boomerang in any way, you want them

safe, durable, economical and adaptable. You will find these
advantages in UNIVERSAL BLEACHERS.

TH    because the greater the loadithe 6

more rigid the stand. \
a

 

intricate parts. No cast- *
ings. All stress and strain anticipated in the design, in the \(m
lumber selected, and in the workmanship. '-’

a}; f  THEY ARE ECONOMICAL  the in-

vestment is

small per person seated and because they are adaptable for
many sports. They are easily moved and stored away out of

 

 

the weather during off seasons.

Universal makes all types of bleachers and bleachers only; our
knowledge and skill are concentrated on them. Full details by

return mail. Just clip this advertisement and send to us with
your name and address written into margin of page. W

I UNIVERSAL BLEACHER COMPANY

I 606 SOUTH NEIL ST.I CHAMPAIGNl ILLINOIS

7. Revise the program whenever is appears de-
} sirable to do so.
Interest in recreation today is at as high a point
‘ ' Wisconsin as it has ever reached. Parent—
eacher Associations are in a position to help
I guide this interest into proper channels. The goals
‘ Inward which we should strive are: Good leader-
Ship, sound iinancial support, adequate facilities,
I elquipment and supplies, utilization of the best
I thinking of both youth and adults, and a program
I of wholesome, varied, and interesting activities.

Britain WeIcomes the Americans
(Continued from page 210)

a school will devote a whole week to an elaborate
American program. The children learn American
songs, make American flags to decorate the assem-
bly room, get up short skits dramatizing scenes
from American history, and then put on a big show
for their parents and friends. It is something of a
thrill for an American to hear British school chil-

dren enthusiastically singing the Star-Spangled

_ Banner, considering the fact that it commemorates
the unsuccessful attempts of a British fleet to knock

JULY 1944

 

said banner off an American fort. Many British
school children are corresponding with American
children, and hoping some day to visit their new
friends.

The universities are doing everything possible
to entertain American visitors, and both Oxford
and Cambridge offer short courses for servicemen
on leave. The Provost of King’s College and the
Master of Trinity devote most of their time to
showing parties of Americans around their colleges.

Various systems for providing personal intro—
ductions have been organized. The English—Speak-
ing Union in London operates a dating service
where Americans can get a partner for the movies
or an invitation to tea, and these dates being tailor-
made, are more successful than the original bulk
lists of dinner invitations. Rotary Clubs, Red
Cross canteens, and other agencies are making
“opposite number” contacts between Americans
and British of the same trade or profession, and
this road to acquaintance is so successful that Army
authorities are interested in promoting it on the
largest scale.

Many Americans will remember England with
( Continued on page 218)

218 THE Y COMPLETES ONE HUNDRED YEARS

The Y Completes
One Hundred Years

HE ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY of the
Tfounding of the Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation is awfitting time to record the cooperation
between the recreation movement and the Y.
Y leaders have helped establish local tax-supported
playgrounds and recreation centers. Many trained
Y workers left the security of their privately sup-
ported positions to become municipal recreation
executives.

Luther Halsey Gulick, the first president of the
society that became the National Recreation As-
sociation, came out of the Y. Lee F. Hanmer had
been general secretary of the Y at Cornell Uni-
versity. E. B. DeGroot, George W. Ehler, Wil-
liam H. Burdick, George Hjelte and many others
came over from the Y.M.C.A. John S. Tichenor
and E. C. Worman worked on the national staff
in both the Y and the National Recreation Asso-
ciation.

The contribution of Richard Morse, the great Y
leader, to the community recreation movement in
giving hours upon hours of his time to facing its
problems will never be forgotten. Dr. George J.
Fisher and Dr.  H. McCurdy worked hard to
build the new recreation movement. Springfield
College and George Williams College made sub-
stantial contributions. In various localities before
the National Recreation Association had held
secretaries, the Y general secretaries helped in
local campaigns.

Workers in the national recreation movement
have made use of Y.M.C.A. publications. The Y
has encouraged extensive c00perative use of N.R.A.
literature, the same books bearing the imprint of
both organizations. Both movements have worked
closely together in the National Social Work Coun-
cil and the National Education-Recreation Council.

The Y has a record of achievements during the
one hundred year period that is just ending.

I believe it will be even stronger one hundred
years from now than it is today, that it will be
just as much needed then as it is now. The keep-

ing of high spiritual standards in one organiza-.

tion helps all who have a will to work coopera-
tively to build together for culture, for strength,
for joy in living on the part of all of us in this
our America.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
   

New York Youth Speaks Out

AT A RECENT local teen age youth conference,
sponsored by the Welfare Council of New
York City, about 100 youth had opportunity to
express their feelings as to youth needs and t
comment critically on existing opportunities. I
addition to a general meeting, several panel dis
cussions were held on different phases of youth
activities.

One youth speaker pointed out that local ordi
nances forbid the use of many cormnercial recrea
tion facilities by youth' under eighteen, such a
bowling alleys, skating rinks and so forth. Sh
suggested that such facilities might be made avail
able to younger groups at specified hours to hel
meet the need of this particular age group.

Youth urged also that recreational facilitie
should be open all day during the summer seaso
and after school and evenings during the schoo
year. There was particular emphasis on the nee
for fuller use of school facilities for recreation.

Considerable attention was given to the proble
of leadership and youth felt that although they d
not want too much adult leadership, they do feel
the need for skillful background advisory help. I
was suggested that leadership training courses be

conducted for youth in the high schools of the city.
'0

 

O
Britain Welcomes the Americans ,|
(Continued from page 217) ‘
pleasure because of the kindness and cordiality 0|:
the people whom they have met. But few of the
will have had a chance to travel widely in Englanrt?I
and to get a clear picture of the immense effort
that the British peOple are making, in the mids
of all the difficulties and deprivations of war, t
show their friendship for their American allies.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation,
(Continued from page 209)

Trees. “The Complete Guide to North Amerii
can Trees,” by Carlton C. Curtis and S. C. Bausor '
New Home Library, New York. 337 pp., illusj

69 cents. ‘
Weather. “Clouds and Weather Phenomena,’,

by C.  P. Cave. Cambridge University Press;
New York. 46 pp., illus. $I.75.

Woodlot. The Future Farmers of America
chapter at Sanderson Academy, Ashlield, Massa-
chusetts, has purchased a twenty—acre woodlot for
$300. It will be conducted as a group project and

RECREATION

A DAY CAMP IN DOWAGIAC 219

ACTUAL PHOTO OF TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS IN USE AT GRAND CENTRAL PALACE.
NEW YORK CITY. THE LARGEST INDUCTION CENTER IN THE WORLD!

Two-Way Bowling Alleys are now "in use all over the United

States and on many war fronts. by the Army. Navy. Marines.
Merchant Marine. Coast Guard. WAGS. U.S.O. Clubs. "Y's." and

Recreation Centers.

MAIL COUPON TODAY
FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION

TWO-WAY BOWLING CURPIIRIITIIIN

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

demonstration plot for approved forestry practices.
Members are cutting and marketing lumber and
wood to cover the purchase price. The woodlot
will be managed under the advice of the Massachu—

setts State College Extension Specialist in For-
cstry.

A Day Camp in Dowagiac
(Continued from page 190)
down under the trees on blankets while a coun-
selor reads or tells stories.

Handcraft classes are held for those who wish
to learn to make leather billfolds, wrist bands,
trick pocketbooks, and other articles. These classes
make use of natural materials such as acorns,
leaves and stones as well as leather, metal and
wood products. Alternating with handcraft are
treasure hunts, stunts, and group activities.

JULY 1944

Telephone LExington 2-8828 I o

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
||4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name ............................................................... ..
Addreu ....... ..\. .................................................. ..

C ity ...................................  State ............... ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

 

0‘

In the afternoon all of the children have another
swim period and at 4 :00 the buses leave for town
with a load of tired but happy children.

Country Dancing Around the U.S.A.

(Continued from page 194)

While in Texas I found that, there were two
dances I simply had to add to my repertoire.
Everywhere I went I was greeted with the ques-
tion, “Do you do, ‘Put Your Little Foot’ and
‘Ten Pretty Girls’ ?” The first named dance is
.simply a version of the Varsovienne (which has
a variety of spellings and pronunciations) and the
other is a dance which can be done by any num-
ber, in line, arms around the folks on either side
of you. The steps are simple, done to the tune of
“Ten Pretty Girls.” It is quite fetching, and very
pOpular throughout Texas. Both of these dances

220 NOW OFF THE PRESS!

have been well received in many other states.

A number of short training courses for prospec-
tive leaders have been conducted, and this is the big
job to be done. If a sufficient number of recreation
pe0ple can learn how to teach this activity, there
will be no limit to the growth of interest. Uni—
versally, the folks who were at all critical of 'square
dances were people who associated them with
rowdyism, or who had tried to dance in places
where the caller simply went ahead with his calls
and left the teaching process to the people in each
square, with resulting confusion. These callers
have a tremendous contribution to make to us.
Their picturesque calls, their unfailing good humor,
their tirelessness must be admired and emulated.
But their contribution must be supplemented by
teaching techniques, especially for beginners.

In a Southern Illinois town, as part of the
USO club’s dedication program, I was scheduled
to conduct a country dance party. Invitations
brought in people from outlying places throughout
the county. Many of these folks were real square
dancers. Starting the program with a Circassian
Circle and two squares—“Take a Peek” and
“Birdie in the Cage”—I found these experienced
folk were somewhat puzzled. My accent, coupled
with the unaccustomed tones of the public address
system, made it hard for them to follow me. I
invited them to put on the next group of dances.
And they did! Seven sets made up of local danc-
ers and novices were formed. Each set had its
own caller. The music (rendered by the Happy
Meek Family—and good!) started—and away
they went, each square doing its own dance to its
own caller’s "directions! There was fun galore;
and it was the way they liked to do it.

Rockford, Illinois, is a regular “hotbed” of
square dancing. At least a dozen civilian square
dance clubs have regular prOgrams. The clubs
have united in a federation known as the Rock-
ford Square Dance Association which sponsors
public square dances in the city parks in the sum-
mer. The money necessary to carry on the pro-
gram is raised by holding several special joint
dances during the winter. Many of 'these dancers
attend the weekly square dance held in the USO
club and give invaluable aid by their presence and
participation. To see one of these dances, con-
ducted by Uncle Tom Harrington, caller extraor-
dinary and teacher par excellence, was a recent
privilege.

The camaraderie of square dance people is never
failing. The weekly dance' in the Rockford USO

Now Off the Press!

HE NATIONAL RECREATION Assoc1AT10N has

been so busy recently preparing material for
publication that we may not have taken time to
give you as complete information as we should
about these new publications. So we have decided
to conduct an “Off-the-Press” column which will
tell you in some detail about new books and book-
lets and the revision of old ones. We hope you
will get into the habit of looking for this column.

This month we introduce Recreation for M en,
a 196 page book in which we take some pride be-
cause it contains so much practical information for
recreation workers and laymen conducting activi-
ties for men’s groups. There are directions for
playing indoor and outdoor games. There are
mental games, puzzles, quizzes, and there are sug-
gestions for drama, music, and hobbies in the pro—
gram for men.

The Table of Contents reads something like this:

PART I—Indoor Activities: Game Room Activities;
Games for Large and Small Groups; Guessing
Games and Mental Gymnastics; Riddles and Puz-
zles; Tricks and Mystery Games; Dinner Table
Fun; Hilarious Stunts, Contests and Relays

PART II—Drama; Music; Hobbies

PART III—Outdoor Games: Team Games; Games
for Two or Four Players; Contests and Stunts;
Relays; Low Organized Games; Winter Sports

PART IV—Water Sports

You will want a copy of this immediately. You
may secure it for $1.25.

Now on the press is another publication which
will have the title, Parties A to Z. In the August
issue of RECREATION we will tell you more about
this book, which is going to be an important aid to
your social recreation program.

 

 

club is extremely popular with servicemen. I saw
at least fifteen sets on the floor at a time, and the
dancing was remarkbale.

Experiences in local communities have con-
vinced me that the fundamentally sound values of
square dancing appeal to people of practically all
ages from varying social environments. The thou-
sands of servicemen and women who are partici-
pating for the first time—Hand with great enthusi-
asm—~come from every conceivable walk of life
and every corner of our country. If recreation
leaders will meet the challenge now and in the
period after the war, this important segment of
genuine American folklore will contribute much
to the happiness of our pe0ple.

RECREATION

l

“NO CAMPS-"BUT FELLOWS HAD FUN!” 221

wNo Camps—But Fellows
Had Fun!”

IN THE New Y ark Journal-American last sum-
l mer, Louis Sobol wrote of his childhood vaca-
tion days, which he said were happy ones even
though there were no camps for the children of

that era.

“Of course, there were some boys whose folks
went off to farms or to sea resorts for the summer,
although most of them were from snootier neigh-
borhoods. My set was satisfied to take a run up
to the pond in the mornings or in the late after-
noons, or hike out to the woods. Our fathers rarely
got vacations if they worked in the shop, or took
one if they owned stores. Our mothers got no rest,
even on Sundays—especially on Sundays!

‘ “But we had picnics to look forward to. Some-
times just a group of the neighbors made up their
own outing. Sometimes it was one church or the
other—sometimes a lodge.

“It was a tolerant era, and the Catholic and
Jewish girls and boys went gaily off to the picnic
sponsored by the Protestant Church and vice
versa, all around. Usually we went by open trolley
car. Occasionally we would crowd into wagons.
Our mothers made up sandwiches. When we got
out to the picnic grounds, some of the women
would get busy making lemonade.

“The games were simple-"baseball, foot races,
tug 0’ war, weight lifting, stone hurling, trick div—
ing, and tree climbing. The older boys and girls
did a bit of spooning which met with very little
sympathy and much jeering from us hard-boiled
younger ones.”

Mr. Sobol told of the one eventful year when he
went with his mother and sister to a farm in Con—
necticut. “I learned about catching buckeyes with
bare hands as they tried to flap back over wooden
dams, how to skin a woodchuck, how to recognize
a skunk in time, how to pick wild strawberries
without contracting ivy poisoning—the best straw-
berries were always in the poison ivy stretches—~—
to put sugar on a bee-sting wound, to drink
pigeon’s eggs raw.”

Now that traveling is so restricted, there may be
happy suggestions in Mr. Sobol’s report of the
simple vacation life enjoyed in the company of
neighbors and friends, without benefit, for the most
part, of any equipment other than that provided so
bountifully by Mother Nature!

JULY 1944

 YM MATS-PADS

   

. ‘73; BOXING RINGS

' TRAINING BAGS, no covsas, BASE BALL

"' BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT...

designed by experts. mode by experienced workmen from
qualify materiel; and Mild direct to schools, camps. etc.
Independent, truly wheleeale.

 NATIONAL svon‘rs EQUIPMENT comumr
3‘5 M‘RQUITTE I POND DU LAC. WIS.

   
 
  
  

 

For War Workers and Their Families

(Continued from page 200)

in a blood station in the community building.
Through the women’s group of the recreation pro-
gram, a house—to—house canvass was made for
donors. Canteen service was provided and all
booking, scheduling, and appointments were
handled through this group.

During the winter season a portion of the group
activities in the community was devoted to free play.
This is a vital part of the recreation program at
Roxana. Conducted on the playground during the
summer months, free play provided the center of
interest for community activity of all ages. It was
maintained lwith a minimum number of leaders
present, the participants themselves assisting.

A section of the grounds was equipped each
evening with teeters, movable swings, sand box,
large building locks, toys, junglegym, small tables,
chairs and horizontal bars, wagons and wheel-
barrows. Modeling clay and other art material-
were provided. To this area mothers and fathers
brought their small children to play while they
sat and visited or used the badminton, tether ball,
horseshoe, paddle tennis, or croquet courts, or the
six target archery range. From a central room, a
large supply of rubber balls, footballs, equipment
for softball, horseshoes, archery, croquet, and bad—
minton was checked out for the asking. Seldom
were things left on the playground without being
returned—nor was equipment intentionally mis—
used.

The help which older children extended to the
younger group, and the assistance adults gave
proved that the individuals of the community were
interested in aiding the program.

A program of recreation in a community, to be
effective, must not only be planned for all but must
also be presented to all. We accomplished this by
preparing a detailed account of the recreation ac-

tivities in an attractive booklet which was delivered
to each home in the community.

  

222

"We Need Each Other"

(Continued from page 207)

priest managed the league until both entered the
service. Now a busy lawyer does the job.

The Webster Groves project provides more than
adequate entertainment and recreation for all age
groups. Foreign-born American citizens come in
for their share of recognition through a series of
informal parties honoring the Allied Nations. An
outdoor carol sing around the town’s Christmas
tree with the high school band playing was 'an in-
novation and is well on its way to becoming a
community custom and tradition.

An adult planning group meets regularly at
homes of its members and spends hours mapping
out details of program. A junior group functions
in the same manner. On the city hall lawn is a
life size painted poster of two neighbors shaking
hands across the back fence—symbolizing the
Committee’s slogan, “We Need Each Other.”

./ In a sense, the Community Activities Committee

is not an organization but that which, in the hearts
of people residing here, motivates each one to do
the kindly deed toward his neighbor. Rules and
bylaw‘s are being drafted to keep the many activi-
ties in check. When the war ends the Committee
hopes to swing a successful bond issue that will
enable it to build a swimming pool, community
house and other necessary additions on Forty
Acres.

Thus, as they work, Committee members recall

the verse of the Lord’s Supper in “The Vision of
Sir Launfal.”

“N at what we give :but what we share-—
For the gift without the giver is bare.
Who gives himself with his alms feeds three——
Himself, his hungry neighbor, and me.”

Recreation in the Mormon Church
(Continued from page 198)

of performance, emphasize greater economy, de—
velop leadership possibilities, and provide addi-
tional educational opportunities. All of us might
well attempt to “spiritualize” recreation, in the
words of Dr. L. P. Jacks, in that our great prob-
lem is “keEping up a high quality of body and
mind in the mass of people.”

Let's Go Fishin'
(Continued from page 173)

How of the stream, the stretch of forest and moun-
tain in their manifestation of the Maker, that
soothes our troubles, shames our wickedness and

NOW YOUTH HAS A CHANCE!

Now Youth Has a Chance!

(Continued from page 192)
at the present time we have approximately one

thousand members. It is is controlled by a board
of directors composed of thirty men and women
(ten elected for one year, ten for two years, and
ten for three years). This board elects a presi-
dent, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer. The
final authority is delegated to an executive com-
mittee composed of the elected officers and one
other member selected by the elected officers, mak-
ing a total of five who have the authority to do all

things necessary for the opening and operation of
recreation centers.

How the Plan Operates

In each area where a center is to be opened, a
committee of fifteen fathers and mothers is organ—
ized as the “sponsoring group” for that particular
center. Then the young people are called together
and they select a committee of fifteen, who, to-
gether with the adult sponsor group, work out the
details of the program. The United Recreation
Foundation has employed an over-all recreation
director whose responsibility it is to plan the entire
recreation program at all centers. All of the equip-
ment used in the centers have been paid for by the
Foundation. The entire city has “given splendid
support in the raising of the necessary money for
the carrying forward of this work. All such monies
have been raised by public donation.

The School Board has given permission to use
the school buildings and the teachers have been
most cooperative in operating the program, which
is doing much to counteract the idea that to be a
good sport it is necessary to frequent a cocktail
lounge and drink hard liquor. It has made the
“coke box” and the games popular with the
youngsters, and they resist zealously any encroach-
ment on the high standards they have set up. They
themselves see to it that no smoking, drinking, or
rowdiness is permitted.

In the opinion of the United Recreation Foun—
dation, this program for youth is doing much to
prevent delinquency. The Judge of the Juvenile
Court and the city judge are both members of the
executive committee, and their reports offer proof
that we are making a constructive attack on the
problem.

 

inspires us to esteem our fellow men ——especially
other fishermen.

RECREATION

_ The SERA Center

(Continued from page 180)
women’s dressing rooms with tile showers. Over
the game room is a storage place for'the instru-
ments of the Scovill Drum Corps, an activity
supported by the Recreation Association.

There is a modern projection booth, and when
movies are shown, the concealed screen is rolled
down on the stage and the south basketball back-
board and basket are raised by pulleys arranged
for that purpose.

The floor of the recreation hall is matched
maple, treated with two coats of penetrating oil
and two of powdered wax. Leather upholstered
wall seats line the east and west sides and the
front of the stage on the south side of the audi-
torium.

The stage is equipped with a regulation size

‘motion picture screen, “disappearing” footlights

and semiconcealed platform steps. The arch Open-

l ing is 25 feet long and 18 feet high. After shows

. or meetings, the folding seats can be quickly

cleared from the fioor and stored above the foyer
l in 'a space behind the motion picture booth.

     

 

l

The game room, like the lounge, is handsomely
furnished and equipped with facilities for pocket
I billiards, table tennis, checkers, chess and cards.

I play, and another piano is located on the stage.
The Center is designed to provide the widest
variety of indoor sports, games and recreational
activities and is open sixteen, hours a day. A uni-
formed guard is on hand to look after the equip-
ment and to assist the participants.

SERA Center has drawn the favorable attention
of recreation people in other war industries in the
Waterbury area because of its attractiveness,
modernity and adaptability to the wide number of
indoor diversions and sports. '

They'll Be Busy in Tucson This Summer!

(Continued from page 184)

bath houses, sand boxes and other equipment for
all ages to enjoy. Daily attendance has been more
than 250.

Oury Park—a Mexican Center which has a com-
munity clubhouse with dance floor, stage, kitchen,
swimming pool, and athletic field.

Ochoa Center. which contains a completely
equipped small children’s playground, with ping-

lULY 1944

There is a piano available for those who wish to

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 223

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worlter

f.

 

MAGAZINES
Alabama Social Welfare, May 1944

Centerville Youth Center, Sue McNeely Long
Beach and Pool, April 1944

Here’s an Answer to the Man—power Shortage,
George B. Caskey

Properties of Filter Materials, George W. Coltman

The Progressive Physical Educator, May 1944
The Church and Recreation, Dr. James S. C'hubb

Co—recreation Hour at Berea College, Minnie Maude
Macauley

Religion and Recreation Shake Hands, Libby Pearce
and Alley Bass

Public Illanagement, April 1944 _
How Cities Are Planning Postwar Improvements

PAMPHLETS
How to Box Correctly, John J. Romano

Published-by Benlee Sporting Goods Mfg. Co., 115
UDIVEI‘SltY Place, New York. Price 25 cents

How to Organize and Supervise Boy Builders Clubs,
M. M. Romig and O. G. Hughson

Published by Douglas Fir Plywood Association, "205
East 42nd Street, New York 17. Price 25 cents '

Juvenile Delinquency and the Schools in Wartime

U. S. Office of Education. For sale by Superintend-
ent of Documents, Washington, D. C. Price 10 cents

Leadership in the Playground

Wisconsin Recreation Association, 3841 West St.
Paul Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin

I'l’loney-Making Plans for Builders

Published by Douglas Fir Plywood Association, 205
East 42nd Street, New York 17

Opicial Softball Rules

' Hillerich and Bradsby Company, Louisville, Kentucky

Pan American Principles Fundamental to World Go-
operation, Florence Brewer Boeckel

People’s Mandate Committee for Inter-American

Peace and Cooperation, Hay-Adams House, Wash,-
ington, D. C.

Things to Do in Newark

Published by the Public Library of Newark, New
Jersey. Price 10 cents

Victory Gardens for Boys and Girls

The National Victory Garden Institute, 598 Madison
Avenue, New York 22

What About Us? A Report of Community Recreation
for Young People

Ofl'ice of Community War Services, Division of Rec-
reation, Washington, D. ‘C.

pong, handball courts, basketball, volley ball and
carrousel.

Carrillo Center. with a complete playground,
baseball diamond, basketball and volley ball courts,
swimming pool and ping-pong tables.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Pield

A Treasury of American Folklore

Edited by B. A. Botkin. Crown Publishers, 419 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. $3.00.

HERE ARE STORIES, ballads, and traditions of the people
edited by an authority on the subject, for Mr. Bot-
kin is assistant in charge Of the Archive of American
Folksong in the Library of Congress. Carl Sandburg in
his foreword calls this compilation “nothing less than an
encyclopedia of the folklore Of America. . . . It will pass
the time, furnish laughter, provide entertainment; it will
give you something of the feel of American history.”

The book contains more than 500 stories, over 100
songs with words and music—songs people have always
loved to sing together at picnics and parties; stories
Americans have told for many years around campfires
and cracker barrels.

To Make Men Free—Landmarks of
Liberty in Review

Book and lyrics by Edith Sanford Tillotson. Music by
Ira B. Wilson. Lorenz Publishing Company, 501 East
Third Street, Dayton 1, Ohio. $1.00.

APATRIOTIC PAGEANT based on “The Battle Hymn Of
the Republic.” The music has been arranged for a
four-part mixed chorus from which tenor and bass may
be omitted if desired. The right of performance of this
work must be obtained in writing from the publishers or
their authorized agents, and the right of performance
covers not more than two consecutive performances by
the same group in the same location.

Watchers ot the World

By Percy Jewett Burrell. Walter H. Baker Company,
Boston. $.50.

HIS IS A DRAMATIC RITUAL for the dedication of service

flag and honor rOll and for Memorial Day. Permis-
sion is given by the author and the publishers to churches,
church schools and church organizations, Y.M.C.A.’s,
Y.W.C.A.’s, colleges, schools, settlements and other civic
and educational organizations to use this dramatic ritual,
without royalty fee, provided no charge is made for ad-
mission, and at least six copies, at lifty cents each, have
been purchased. In return it is requested that two copies
of the program be mailed by the directors to Walter H.
Baker Company, Boston.

Going Camping with Intermediate
Boys and Girls

International Council Of Religious Education, 203 North
Wabash Avenue, Chicago 1, Illinois. $1.00.

THIS MANUAL was prepared for use by camp adminis-

trators, official church camp planning bodies, counsel-
ors, teachers, directors, business managers and parents,
and local church workers with intermediates. The prac-
tical and inspirational suggestions it has t0.0ffer are
presented in a way which makes the manual exceedingly
readable and serviceable for all groups conducting camp-
ing fnr intermediate boys and girls.

224

Bicycling

By Ruth and Raymond Benedict. The Barnes Sports
éiblgary. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York 18.
1.2 .

VERYTHING PERTAINING to the bicycle and bicycling is

included in this book—how to take care of your
bicycle; riding technique; safety rules; the planning Of
trips; touring equipment; and the organization of cycle
clubs. Photographs and line drawings add to the interest
of the subject matter. '

Tax-Reverted Properties in

Urban Areas

Public Administration Service, 1313 East 60th Street,
Chicago, Illinois. Price $2.50.

THIS VOLUME is extremely useful in helping local public
’Ofticials to understand the possibilities Of the use of
tax delinquent lands for public purposes including recre-
ation, park and school purposes. It covers very thoroughly
the present procedures and dilbculties in acquiring title to
tax delinquent lands and outlines a definite program for
meeting these difficulties. This volume should be in the
library of every municipality, and recreation executives
will want tO study it to determine the possibilities in
their own localities for the acquisition of land for recre-
ation purpOses, particularly where this can be done in
acquiring areas needed for postwar and long term de-
velopments. Where this volume is not available, recrea-
tion commissions and executives will undoubtedly wish
to recommend to the chief executive of the munici—
pality that it be secured for the local municipal library.

Officers and’Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y. '
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscan, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MR5. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOOBWARD, W'ashington, D. C.

