The Recreation Worker Starting
a New Year

BE NOT ASHAMED or hesitant to call yourself a recreation worker.
You meet one of the earliest and most fundamental needs of men.
No king in ancient days had a more important place.

It is good to be a priest and help men see the meaning of life. It is good
to be a doctor and keep men well. It is good to be a teacher and make it easy for
men to acquire knowledge and wisdom. It is good to be a farmer and feed men,
a laborer and build homes. It is good to be doing something that always and
everywhere, from the beginning of time to eternity, is central, deep, real, unques—
tioned by those who are wise. Few are the tasks that qualify for this. Of these
few one is recreation leadership.

Men must eat, must have a place to sleep, need help to keep well, need to
keep their souls alive, need to study, learn, need to work. But the child and the
man also need to have fun, simple fun. They need to laugh, to sing, to pretend,
not to be too serious all the time. There is rhythm inside man which needs to
come out. Man was made to swim, to skate. Eating and sleeping and learning
mean nothing if a child or a man has lost his essential nature and become just
a bit of machinery.

You do not need to prove to the child that baseball, swimming, skating,
just having fun is important. The child would think you crazy if you tried to
prove it. He knows he has to breathe, eat and have fun.

The wise men have seen and been sure as have the little children that simple
fun, abundant living, is important. Dr. L. P. Jacks, great Oxford scholar, editor
for years of the Hibbert Journal, recognized as one of the great educators and
thinkers. of this generation, said: "I am more interested in what you are doing
in the recreation movement in America than in anything else in the world."

Right down in the grass roots, on the soil in the neighborhood is where it ,
is of supreme importance to help children and all people cooperatively to arrange
times and places so that always in his free time the child and the man shall be
able to do what he most wants to do just for fun. If we make it easy for the Tom
Sawyers and the Huckleberry Finns and all of us to live gloriously—to fish, to
hunt, to sail, to swim, when we have a little time for ourselves—then many ills
that come from stagnant life are less likely to appear. The substantial people of the
United States now recognize that we should not leave to the devil the simple good
fun which belongs to the Lord.

The recreation worker is important. Helping to make all life glorious, chal-
lenging, absorbing, vital, is no mean task for the best and the wisest.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

SEPTEMBER I944

 

281

Courtesy Virginia State Chamber of Commem

RECREATION

 

The Daytona Beach Youth Council a

By RUBY LEE GOLDMAN and PATRICIA GARDNER

N PLANNING for Day-
I tona Beach’s Youth
Center, the City Rec-
reation Board requested

high school teachers, the
a Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.

i C.A. secretaries to select four representative stu-

l dents from each of the last four grades of the three
local high schools. On Wednesday, August 6,
‘i 1941, the students so selected met with their spon-
sors and the city Recreation Board, and after
‘eing asked -what recreation they wished, the high
chool students prepared a list of activities and
rojects desired by them.
So it was that a Youth Council was formed to
; rovide recreation and better recreation facilities
' nd to create and- maintain higher ideals while
ollowing a threefold program of (1) education,
2) civic youth participation, and (3) planned and
upervised recreation.
The Council was composed entirely of young
eople between fourteen and nineteen with an
dult advisory board Composed ofindividuals and
epresentatives of various organizations interested
1 young people. The guiding spirit of the whole
oveinent since its inception has been W. 
ardiner, a Daytona Beach attorney, who has the
relfare of youth as one of his primary interests.
At legislative meetings held weekly on Wed-
‘1 esday evenings, the students formulate their own
lans and appoint committees to execute plans.
rom the beginning the
ouncil has served as a
aining ground for civic
' aders. It has brought
'i gether students from
' 1 our high schools and
ven them an opportun-
y to know each other
,- cooperate on a city-
e basis.

  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
 

r0

1 Finding a Home

a From the start the ears Of Hie CHY

eed of a center for youth
as a matter of prime

SEPTEMBER 1944

 

The story of the Youth Center of
Daytona Beach' Florida' as told by

two members of its Youth Council

 

Daytona Beach has always had the subject of
recreation very much at heart. For many years
seekers after health and pleasure have found
them here during the entire year, and the City
Commission, through the Recreation Board, has
spent large sums of money to provide recrea-
tion. There was one groupI however, that felt
neglected—the youth of high school age. So
they held panel discussions in school and be-
fore civic clubs in the hope of reaching the
Commission and Recreation
'1 Board, and they were successful. In the sum-
mer of l94| the Recreation Board took action.

importance. The shuffle-
board clubhouse, which is
vacant two months of every
year, was the first place
used. Here the Council
organized dances and all-
day fun fests supervised by adults interested in the
Youth Council program. These first get-togethers
were an amazing success, so when it was time to
move out of the shuffieboard clubhouse, the city
let the Youth Council use the City Island Casino
for dances and programs.

A bazaar, the proceeds of which went to the Red ’
Cross, was the next big 1941 project of the Youth
Council. During the summer, beach picnics were
popular. A softball league was formed 'and nine
teams were in the competition for championship.
Classes in sports and dancing were started under
the guidance of skilled men and women. The
Youth Council produced two highly successful
plays exhibiting experience in acting, make-up,
and stage setting.

In the summer of 1943 the city provided money
for a trained director and current expenses. At
this time the Youth Council moved again. The
owners loaned to the Youth Council the Pier
Casino, a former night club situated on the long
fishing pier over the ocean. Here, despite the
nightly blackout, dances and parties were often
in progress. An orchestra of Youth Council mem-
bers was formed which played once a week for

dances. Members of the

Council made ping-pong

tables and provided table

games. Several of the
boys took over the soft
drink concession and the
setup was nearly ideal.
A questionnaire was
submitted to each of the
high school students in

September 1943, asking

for information about how
° the student spent his lei-

sure time and about what-
activities he would like

283

284 THE DAYTONABEACH YOUTH COUNCIL

 

made available by the Youth Council for subse—
quent recreation activities.

The owners of the Pier Casino wanted to use
the building this past winter, so the boys and girls
of the Youth Council were once more without a
place to meet and have good times. They wanted
a real “drop-in” near the center of town, easily
accessible to all.

Permanently Located at Last!

The Y.M.C.A. came to the rescue with an empty
store and a large garage adjoining it. This was it!
Something they could all help change into a club-
house of their own! Work began immediately,
with students from three high schools coming on
Saturday and Sunday afternoons to sandpaper,
wash, plaster, paint, and otherwise remodel the
building. Members of the Adult Advisory Board
helped supervise and order material. Financial
support was given by the city, individuals, and
clubs.

The store building, which was long and narrow,
was converted to a lounge in the front and a game
room in the back. Wicker furniture, donated by
clubs, was enameled with bright green, yellow, or
red paint and slip-covers were made. Curtains
were provided by members of the Adult Advisory
Board. Walls and woodwork were done in ivory.
The girls’ powder room was painted peach and
blue and dressed up with c_hintz. The garage with
a cement fioor was turned into the “Jive Dive,” a

room for dancing. Soft green paint decorates the
walls and snack bar. Bright yellow and white

Governor Holland and his
wife attended the dedica-
tion of the "Drop-In" and
were very active in the
proceedings. "This is
too tine an occasion to
spoil it with speaking."
said the Governor. "so
on with the dance."

checked curtains and a yellow awning over the
snack bar serve to brighten the room.

Work was rushed to a high peak when Senator
Claude Pepper and Governor Spessard Holland
were expected to visit the city. Instead of having
work parties once each week, the students joined
with their new director and members of the Ad—
visory Board in working daily after school. On
February I, 1944, the finishing touches were com—
pleted and a large group assembled in the after-
noon to meet Senator Claude Pepper. Senator
Pepper was so pleased with the project that he,
requested this history be written and sent to him
for filing with the United States Senate Subcom—
mittee on Wartime Health and Education of which
he is chairman. The following evening an opening
reception and dance was held with Governor and
Mrs. Holland and members of the City Commis-
sion as special guests.

Some of the Activities

The “Drop-In” has proved to be a grand suc-
cess, and is open six afternoons and four nights a
week. It is fast becoming a favorite spot of the
younger set. Membership cards at twenty-hve
cents per year are issued, and everyone is happy.
This small charge was voted by the Youth Coun—
cil to give the members a sense of belonging and
to create a fund for contest prizes.

The next projects will be the building of an
outdoor f1replace.and the construction of badmin-
ton and volley ball courts in the rear of the
building. '

RECREATION

THE DAYTONA BEACH YOUTH COUNCIL 285

Ping-pong tournaments and tennis lessons are

now in progress. It is hoped that as time goes on
more hobby groups can be established under vol-
unteer leadership. The Junior Red Cross sends an
adult leader once a week to assist students in
making scrapbooks for military hospitals.

In November 1943, the Youth Council adopted
a formal charter providing for representation from
each school in proportion to its size, on an admin—
istrative board. This charter was put in effect in
February 1944. The Administrative Board con-
tinues to meet each Wednesday night, and jointly
with the Adult Advisory Board every three months.
Some of the adult advisors usually meet with the
Administrative Board and the officers of the Youth
Council attend the monthly meetings of the Youth
Council Adult Advisory Board.
- The Adult Advisory Board also has a constitu-
tion which correlates with the Youth Council
charter. This Board meets the fourth Tuesday of
each month and makes suggestions on matters of
policy and arranges to have adult hosts and host-
esses to assist the director in social events. Youth
Council members are welcome to meet with the
Administrative Board and the Advisory Board.

The city furnishes most of the money required
for the Youth Council; however, some individuals
and several civic clubs have
made donations of time and

They all worked hard getting things
shipshape for their famous visitors

money to the Youth Council project. Partly, it is
believed, as a result of the Youth Council, Daytona
Beach has one of the lowest juvenile delinquency
records of any city in the South.

The teen-agers of W" est Orange, New Jersey,
have caught the alphabetical fever and have named
their canteen “WOTAC,” the letters standing for
“West Orange Teen Age Canteen.”

Sponsored by the War Services Division of the
West Orange Defense Council, the canteen pro—
vides a meeting place for boys and girls lifteen
years of age and over. Headquarters are in the
auditorium of one of the schools, and the canteen is
open _every Friday and Saturday night from 8 to
I I P.M. The young people have decorated the audi—
torium, adopting a motif of red, white, and blue.
Blue drapes have been hung at the windows, and a
set of wicker furniture has been painted red. 4

Approximately 225 boys and girls paid their
membership dues of 50 cents for the month of
March, and a goodly number of guest fees were
received. A paid director has been placed in charge
with the hearty cooperation of the teen-agers
themselves.

Interestingly enough, the teen—agers voted not
to have the traditional juke box, and use a vic-
trola which plays eight records
in succession.

 

 

Juvenile Delinquency—A Challenge to Music

verbal brickbats between
Artur Rodzinski and Frank
Sinatra on the subject of cur—
rent styles in popular music and
their possible contribution to
juvenile delinquency raises a
serious issue that has wanted
attention for some time. Dr.
Rodzinski declared “the style
of boogie woogie which appeals to hep cats is the
greatest cause of delinquency among American
youth today,” to which Mr. Sinatra retorted: “I
don’t know exactly what the causes of juvenile de-
linquency are, but I don’t think any one can prove
that popular music is one of them.” Subsequently,
other musicians, including Leopold Stokowski, have
added their voices variously to the Controversy.
We hold no brief for the swooner-crooner nor
for most of the things he represents, musically.
But we think he has a better case in this instance
than the distinguished conductor of the Philhar-
monic, and we think he has placed the burden of
responsibility where it belongs. The response of
modern juvenilia to swing and boogie woogie is
not basically different, in kind or purport, from the
physical reactions to rhythm of the first man who
struck the first drum at the dawn of civilization, of
the be-wigged courtier who pranced to the minuet,
the Viennese who whirled to the waltz or the Hun-
garian who toed the Czardas. An emotional ca-
tharsis through music, of whatever stamp, is neither

THE RECENT exchange of

degenerate nor malicious. To say so is a tactical.

error in the approach to the whole problem of
musical illiteracy and places the accuser in a virtu-
ally indefensible position.

Moreover, Dr. Rodzinski misses one of the prin-
cipal implications of his charge: if popular music is
contributing to juvenile delinquency, what is seri-
ous music doing to correct the condition? In our
opinion, it is doing very little; certainly far less
than it can and should. The social aspects of music
have been far too little exploited in the interest of
social enlightenment and progress, especially
among children growing up under present war
conditions. There are, of course, the traditional
concerts for young people presented by our sym-
phony orchestras and other organizations. Some
' groups, including the National Music League, are

286

What is your opinion of the relation-
ship ot popular music to juvenile de-
linquency? A number of leaders in the
musical world have been discussing the
subject recently, and they haven't al-
ways agreed! Musical Ametica, in an
editorial in the January 25th issue.
made such an interesting contribution
to the subject that we secured per-
mission to reprint it in RECREATION.

planning redoubled efforts to
engage the passive interest of
restless youth in abnormal I
times. These are laudable proj-
ects as far as they go. But they '
do not go far enough.

Action is the keynote of
youth, and active participation _
in educative musical projects
could be a powerful antidote
for the mischievous forces which axiomatically find
work for idle hands. Within every community
there are organizations qualified to sponsor and
supervise after-school and- evening music activity.
programs—choruses, glee clubs, bands, orchestras,
musical entertainments, operettas and the like.
Most music clubs, public schools and similar insti-
tutions have at their command the necessary fa-
cilities and personnel to conduct such activities,
and they could do a tremendous morale job on the
home front if they put that machinery to work on
an all-out basis.

It will be said that such activities already are
available to children under school auspices. But
the trouble is that most school projects are car-
ried on during school hours, leaving the time be-
tween the dismissal bell and bedtime unoccupied,
and that they are only open to, or at least only
attractive to, children with some special musical
talent or interest. The activities we contemplate
would be‘ open to all children and would appeal to
them on a social as well as a musical basis. And
they would take place in those twilight hours that
represent such a dangerous void for unguided
youngsters in war-disrupted families.

In sponsoring such programs, people sincerely
interested in the propagation of serious music
would not only perform a magnificent service for
their communities but would also be paying com- 
paratively light premiums on a large insurance
policy against the day when these children will
have become adults and taken their place in the
cultural life of the community. People who come
to know and love music in childhood seldom desert
it in later life. For them there will be no moot
points as to the social significance of different
types of music and there will be no need for the
Rodzinski or the Sinatra of their day to tell them
what music is doing to them.

RECREATION

Recreation in Municipal Parks

ESPITE WAR problems and
D restrictions “Recreation

in Municipal Parks” has
been a vital factor in main-
taining community morale,
community discipline and
community solidarity. Thou-
sands of children, youth, and
adults have discovered or re-
discovered the fact that the
parks have a wide range of
facilities and activities which provide for the keen
enjoyment of everyone.
‘ Rarely does the local park planner or park ex-
ecutive post “Keep on the grass” signs. He, like
the recreation executive, is anxious that parks
render maximum services while protecting the
natural features and landscape qualities. Marked
strides have been made during the past decade to
provide additional recreational services in munici-
palkparks. Opportunities, have been made available
by the planner and the landscape architect through
increased understanding and appreciation of pub-
lic needs. Facilities have been designed and sec—
tions or portions of park areas have been set aside
so that nature’s gifts will receive only a minimum
of abuse. On the other hand many park depart-
ments own or control ex-
tensive properties, some of

By MILO F. CHRISTIANSEN
Superintendent of Recreation

Washington. D. C.

Some extracts from an address given at
the National War and Peace Fitness Con-
ference held under the auspices of the
American Association for Health. Physi-
cal Education. and Recreation. meeting

in New York City. April 24-27. I944.

Parks of Mesa. Arizona. are used for many
purposes. This group is enioying a picnic.

which were selected and de-
veloped for active recrea-
tional use.

Types of Facilities and
Activities‘ '

In many of the larger mu-
nicipal parks one will find
almost every facility and ac-
tivity from the intensive to
the extensive types of passive
and active recreation. While it may seem unneces-
sary to describe park recreation, it is interesting
to observe that a wide array of opportunities may
be found which cover a broad field of human in-
terests. Moreover, the quality and quantity of
park recreational resources have been made ef-
fective by an increased recognition of qualified
recreation leadership. Inf some communities the
program has extended beyond the confines of the
park pr0perties and has led to operation on a
community-wide basis.

An unfortunate condition exists in most com-
munities in that citizens and public officials are
uninformed as to available resources. Persons
who have resided in a community for several years
are often the poorest informed. Constant effort
must be made to familiarize
the citizenry with existing

 

SEPTEMBER 1944

287

288 RECREATION [N MUNICIPAL PARKS

and pr0posed facilities. Most recreation officials
now recognize that attitudes determine recreational
interests. “Activities” is a term for classifying
them once they have been established. An ex-
haustive list of “activities” or “attitudes” will not
be attempted here. Only the well-established will

be referred to in this presentation.

Picnicking. Most commonly accepted park diver-
sions are individual and group picnicking. This
necessitates running water, firewood, fireplaces,
tables, benches, and sanitation. Then there are
canoeing, boating on lakes, streams or the ocean
front, also swimming, diving, and water sports.
At many parks where there are no natural swim-
ming facilities pools have been installed. There is
hiking along park trails or through the woods;
horseback riding on bridle paths; tennis, golf,
archery, baseball, horseshoes, bowling on the
green, trap shooting; dancing and roller skating
at outdoor lighted pavilions; observing various
types of wildlife or plantlife; participating in plays,
pageants or operettas in the outdoor or sylvan thea-
ters; and enjoying the beauty of the park land-
scape. The increased popularity of winter sports has
opened new areas of interest on park properties
which previously had been unused during cold
weather. Then, too, there are playgrounds for chil-
dren, some of which are provided with equipment,
sandboxes, spray and wading pools.

Day Camps. A fast growing and popular recre-
ation program is the increase in the provision of
day camps. Park officials have been quick to real-
ize the far-reaching value of the day camp program
which differs considerably from the playground
program in the experiences and opportunities
made available to youth. Typical programs in-
clude flag—raising, overnight camping, outdoor
cooking, hiking, map-making, nature study, out-
door crafts, camp clean-up and routine. Here
youth assemble under quali-
fied leadership to learn of
nature's gifts and methods
of adapting one’s self to
outdoor conditions.

While it is true that for
the park official day camps
increase problems related to
sanitation and protection of
the landscape, individual and
group benefits derived far
outweigh vandalism and de—
struction. Park planners
have skillfully laid out areas

Mr. Christiansen stresses the fact that the
term "iuvenile delinquency" has been used
so carelessly in its relation to recreation
that to many people delinquency and rec-
reation are synonymous. "Nothing could be
more unfortunate." he says."Recreation,the
newest member of the community fa mily, has
become a full-grown child, able to see to
its own subsistence and nourishment. It does
not need to ride the iuvenile delinquency
band wagon. It has established itself as a
natural. normal. and healthy individual. It
is taking its place in the community
family along with education and health."

in naturalistic surroundings. A sense of being far
away from the humdrum of traffic and gasoline
odors is created although the “day campers” may
be only a few minutes’ hike away from public trans-
portation and probably less than an hour’s time
away from home.

The war has been directly responsible for a rapid
growth in the day camp’s popularity. Many youth
who previously attended vacation group camps
have found them no longer available because of
transportation, personnel, and ration difficulties.

Park Recreation for Servicemen. Servicemen in
the army camps have been among the most con-
stant users of our parks. Here service personnel
can participate in active forms of recreation or they
can stretch out on the grass, or under the trees,
and gaze up into the sky—removed from all forces
of regimentation and formality. The girl friend’s
Kodak and a few sandwiches often add to the en-
joyment of the occasion!

Many communities have organized various en-
tertainments, community sings, and band concerts.
Park officials have bent every effort to provide
pleasure for service personnel and also the war
worker.

Parks More Widely Used

Travel restrictions, gasoline and tire rationing
have stimulated increased use of our parks. The
vacationer, the week—end recreation seeker, have
discovered that there is a wealth of recreational
opportunities in their own backyard. By the same
token, citizens have been quick to realize park
recreation deficiencies. Generally speaking, how-
ever, the war is having a beneficial effect in point-
ing to the need for permanent provision of a wide
array of recreational services, as well as additional
acreage.

But the park administrator has felt the war-
created problems too. Lack
of manpower, difficulties in
securing certain equipment,
supplies, and materials are
only a part of the headaches.
Increased demands have ag-
gravated the condition so
that park maintenance, con-
struction and development
have been most difiicult.

It is interesting to note
that most park and recrea-
tion budgets have “held
their own.” Some have

RECREATION

 

RECREATION IN MUNICIPAL PARKS ’ 289

increased their annual appro-
priations to provide for in—
creased needs.

Trends in Physical
Education

The surprising facts re-
vealed by the Army and Navy
regarding poor health and
physical conditions of our youth are of major con-
cern to all youth-serving agencies and organiza-
tions. Certain trends may be noted.

It has recently been reported that since Pearl
Harbor there has been marked increase in the
provision of physical education for boys and girls.
In a recent survey report made by Dr. David
Brace and Miss Dorothy LaSalle of the Office of
Education, it is learned that there are significant
_~trends which we as public officials should note.
More boys and girls are required to take physical
education training and additional periods and ex-
tension of hours have been made. There has been
a marked trend in accelerating the more active and
strenuous types of physical training, including
swimming and lifesaving“ instruction. There is a
tendency to decrease the teaching of skills for the
less strenuous activities. There is a marked in-
crease in health education instruction.

In analyzing these trends, it is reasonable to
assume that our youth will demand additional park
facilities which provide for the more active types
of recreation. Recreation activities of the physical
and body contact types shouldincreasingly be con-
sidered by.the park and recreation planners.

Transition-Postwar Planning Period

The average person interprets the period follow-
ing the signing of the World War II peace treaties
as the postwar period. While technically correct,
if our planning of postwar programs is limited to
an approximate date this interpretation is inade-
quate. We are now in a transition period. Over a
million servicemen have returned to civilian life
because of injuries, rejections, and for other rea-
sons. Many communities have already closed out
or are reducing armament production. Immediate
plansshould be made for what is now going on.

A significant defect in community planning is
the lack of effective methods or devices by which
responsible agencies or individuals can pool their
technical experience and knowledge. This accounts
for the lack of quality as well as quantity in our
recreational resources.

SEPTEMBER 1944

One of the facts to keep in mind in
a consideration of municipal parks and
the recreation activities they provide is
that in I940 there were over 400,000
acres of park property in |,200 commu-
nities. Over a third of this acreage
has been acquired in the last l5 years.

The physical educator, the
park and city planner, the
recreation executive, and
others must plan together so
that the taxpayer and the
consumer may receive maxi-
mum results. In many com—
munities there is a planning
—but of the individual type
in which the schools, the parks, and the recreation
agencies each acts independently.

The public works program following the cessa-
tion of hostilities—and almost everyone admits
that there will be one—will provide funds for those
communities that have actually completed plans
and specifications so that immediate employment
and work prbjects can commence. But who usually
gets the lion’s share of these funds? The high-
way, street, and sewer departments, the health
and the welfare departments, are usually the
recipients. These are all worthwhile and essential
community services. But provision of recreational
opportunities too many times has been at the bot-
tom of the priority list. So it behooves every
public official who is interested in providing rec-
reation to take immediate steps to see that his own
community contrives to have plans and specifica-
tions completed before the public works program
becomes a reality.

We are fortunate in our city in that a regular
and effective device is in operation whereby key
officials of the various administrative agencies
meet regularly to process plans for recreational
needs in the parks, the municipal playgrounds, the
school buildings and school playgrounds, and the
housing projects. This device is our Coordinating
Committee on Recreation Plans which is composed
of public school officers including the directors of
physical education, the planning and executive
officials of the Parks office, the Municipal Archi-

- tect’s representative, planners from the National

Capital Park and Planning Commission, the mu-
nicipal repair shop engineer, the Recreation De-
partment officials, the executive secretary of the
recreation division of the Council of Social
Agencies.

There have been suggestions of late encouraging
communities to construct useful types of “memori-
als” and “monuments” after the war. Experience
has proved too often in the past that millions of
dollars have been collected or solicited for memori-
als which have no useful purpose except to com-

(Continued on page 335)

What They Say About Recreation

includes play.”-——Hon'ard W. H opkirla in
Institutions S eroing Children.

"I IFE CANNOT BE RICH and wholesome unless it

“We have everything that it takes for a truly
great movement in art; and when the war is over,
if our artists work side by side with the moral
courage shown by our soldiers, we shall have a
lasting victory in an art designed for and by a
democratic nation.” -— Thomas Craven in The

Story of Painting.

“Sport carries the patterns of behavior that
come out of the culture in which it grows.”—From

Sports: Their Organization and Administration,
by Jesse F. Williams and PVilliam L. Hughes.

“My heart, which is full to overflowing, has
often been solaced and refreshed by music when
sick and weary.”——-Martin Luther.

“Handicraft is not one subject or phase of ac—
complishment. It is a vast network of interrelated
trails that lead into almostrevery gateway that
human knowledge has Opened.”—Ellsworth Jaeger.

 

“While workers toil for victory, recreation of—
fers them one of the few areas of freedom left in a
world mobilized for war. This sphere of freedom
they cherish, not only for themselves alone but for
their children as well.”-—From S pare Time, A
War Asset for l/Var Workers.

“With real freedom go a sense of obligation
and reSponsibility which are not accompaniments

of uninhibited, uncontrolled, and undirected in-
stincts.”—Dr. William Fleck.

“Reading, for young children, is rarely a _

pleasure in isolation, but comes through shared
pleasure and constant, discerning exposure to
books so that they fall naturally into the category
of pleasant necessities, along with food, sleep,
music, and all out—of—doors.”-——Annis Duff in
Bequest of Wings.

 

“Make way for the dance! See if it does not
repay a thousandfold. It will enlarge the horizon,

give meaning to many things now hidden, new

power to the self, a new value to existence.”—
Ruth St. Denis.

290

“Sport, which keeps the flag of idealism flying,
is perhaps the most saving grace in the world at
the moment, with its spirit of rules kept and regard
for the adversary, whether the hght is going for
or against.”—]ohn Galsworthy.

“Let us so construct and conduct our camps
that the greatest amount of wholesome and demo—
cratic living will accrue to each individual.”—

L. B. Sharp.

“America must be made a nation of communities
in which satisfying home life is experienced by an
ever—increasing number of individuals.”—Bernice
Baxter and Rosalind C assidy in Group Experi—
ence—The Democratic Way.

“The city can no longer forget its obligation to
its children and its duty to the future. It must
bind all efforts toward success.”—Lois Sager in
Preventing Wartime Delinquency.

“In times like these when dependence must be
placed upon qualities of courage and readiness for
sacrifice, every ennobling influence that stimulates
these qualities must be brought to bear. Music in
wartime has this very special.place.”-—K. D. Scott
in Games and Songs in W artune.

“A club needs programs and activities which are 0

alive and varied if it is to retain the interest of its

members over a period of time. . . .”—From
Y Boys’ Clubs.

“Passive happiness is slack and insipid and soon
grows mawkish and intolerable. Some .austerity
and wintry negativity, some roughness. danger,
stringency and effort must be mixed in to produce
the sense of existence with character, texture, and
power.”—l/Villiam James.

“Good sportsmanship and enthusiastic interest
in games and sports are among our cherished
American ideals, for they promote good social at-
titudes, physical skill, and stamina—all important
attitudes in a democracy.”—From Leadership of
Girl Scout Troops.

“Competitive games, team games, as we’ve known
them in our nation, have always developed the will
to win in our nation.”-——Captain A. W. Redford.

RECREATION

\

 

HAT ABOUT the girl he left behind, the wife
W he left behind, or the girl current music says

would “be so nice to come home to”? What
is she going to do with her spare time?

“Stay at home in your own backyard” or “Hoe
your victory garden” have become practical war
slogans, but the teen age and the twenty-year-old
youth of America don’t want to stay at home doing
this all the time. Thousands of young people, girls,
and women are now working between high school
and college terms with no vacation when they
never worked before. Everyone is working over-
time. Working is a wonderful experience, but after
a while everything gets boring because Johnny’s
gone off to the war and even Dad may have gone.
Young girls graduated from high school regret
that high school parties are no more. They are
talking in the past tense.

“Gee, we used to have so much fun dancing at
the Sandwich Shop. I remember that day we
drove over to the lake—and remember, Jimmy
threw me in the water,” is the typical conversation.

They’re getting old dreaming in the past and
sitting at home nights reading their magazines.
Their mothers and dads are getting very old
listening to “I used to” stories and missing the
members of their families who are gone, when they
could be doing something to keep their home life
normal for the time when Johnny comes march-
ing home. '

Social life and recreation are
missing from our once normal
life in the community and
family. In many communities
where there are no servicemen
stationed, young girls and
women are working and no

SEPTEMBER 1944

This article is based on the Co-Rec
Evening of sports sponsored by the
Women's Recreational‘Association of
Pennsylvania State College. It con-
cerns itself with the maintenance of
a normal social lite—thus with the

normal family life of the wives, tam-
ilies, and sweethearts of servicemen.

The Girl l-le Left Behind

By MADELENE F. COOK

   
 
   

No. it isn't a rolling pin.
and Mother isn't chasing
Dad with it. She's t -
ing to "beat the barll"

to tirst base. Mother
is playing baseball.

longer dating, dancing, or going to parties as they
would in peacetime. In the absence of our coun-
try’s young men, parents, as well, no longer have
the same social or family life.

Sports would be the answer for a recreational
outlet except that few civilians now have leisure
hours during the day. In places where servicemen
have been stationed the answer to entertainment
for them has been almost entirely in terms of a
dance.

Bring the family to the local playground or a
vacant lot to watch the new baseball team after
dinner tonight. Ask some servicemen, too, but
bring the whole family. The baseball is modified
to a softball game because dads are playing
daughters, sons are up to bat against fathers, or
teen age girls are playing with the Army.

A Co-Rec Evening

The Women’s Recreational Association of the
Pennsylvania State College made a success of an
evening of sports which they called a “Co-Rec
Evening” because men and women participated in
the same activities. It featured a softball game
with a marine-coed team playing a sailor-coed
team. Both men and women competed in the
badminton, archery, ping—pong.
bridge, and volley ball games
that were set up out of doors
on Holmes Field. Servicemen
and civilian students training
at the College entered into the
fray as hrst basemen or as
cheering spectators. Standing,

291

292

playing, or sitting watching, they stayed until dark
on the grassy field.

“In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns
to baseball,” announced a poster advertising the
Co-Rec Evening which was held from 7:00 until
dark. But the team used a softball, and five coeds
with five marines on one team batted against five
coeds and five V—IZ sailors on the other. The
coeds played the second and third bases and the
outfield. Marines or Navy men played first base,

pitcher, and catcher.

The badminton courtskept eight persons at a
time busy retrieving shuttlecocks, and others en—
gaged in watching. Because the courts were to be
used only temporarily outside, they were lined
with lime. This can be done with an ordinary tin
can punched with holes about three inches across
and filled with lime or Hour. Shake the can and it
will make a line the same width all along the edge
of the court. The softball diamond can be lined in
the same way.

There was plenty of room for ping-pong tables,
but a space nineteen by ten feet will be room

enough in which to play, for the average ping-pong -

table is nine by five feet wide. Some bridge en—
thusiasts and a few people who were not too
anxious to run after a ping—pong ball or a shuttle-
cock filled up one bridge table, drank cokes and
played until dark.

Others were more interested in the sports, and
played volley ball or shot arrows into the row of
targets thirty feet away. The archery range was
lined up so that the arrows that missed the targets
went into the ground in the field in back of them.
Targets should not be placed against buildings
because the arrows may bounce back from the
walls or break.

Members of the Archery Club, the Badminton,
and Bridge Clubs of Pennsylvania State College
arranged for their respective entertainments and
were present to help anyone who wanted to know
the rules or needed instruction in playing cer-
tain games. The Women’s Recreational Associa—
tion is a Women’s student organization which
planned the event independently. It has been an
annual event for many years.

Everyone on the block, and the next block, too,
can come to a party of co-recreational sports such
as the one planned by these students. After long
hours in a defense plant, nineteen—year-old Mary

THE GIRL HE LEFT BEHIND

can leave an evening of sitting on the front porch
and watching the sun go down, for an evening of
fun with her whole family. Mary will try swing-
ing a baseball bat if she doesn’t already know how.
She’ll find out that her “kid” brother and her

father are more fun than she thought.

O

Equipment for the Sports can usually be obtained
from high school gyms or private homes, if your
recreation center does not have it.

Every boy wants to prove that his Dad can play
baseball and most every Dad wants to prove that
his pitching arm is still pretty good. Pennsylvania
State students enjoyed watching the girls play
against men, and spectators were surprised and
enthusiastic when the girls knocked a few balls
far out in the outfield.

Dad and Mother want to take a try at hitting0
the bull’s-eye and want to see if they can swing
a badminton racquet. They may even give their
neighbor some fast returns with a ping-pong pad—
dle. They may settle down to bridge, coke, and
cookies after awhile, but they’ll take to sports
quite seriously with their families cheering.

Several of the sailors and marines on the soft-
ball teams play baseball for the College, but the
coed members of the team didn’t seem to slow the
game up any. The spectators drew a quick breath
when one coed tried to steal a base and returned to
the base just in time to beat the ball. The game
is much more exciting when stealing bases is
allowed and when those watching don’t have to
wait for the pitcher to practice putting a ball over
the plate. Only one or two practices may be
enough to show Mother or Sister how to throw a
straighter ball and how to swing a bat.

Some of the youngest children won’t be able to i

take part in these more adult sports but they’ll like
watching them. Miniature horseshoe games and
croquet will keep them busy until long after dark
if they’re fed cookies and a little ice cream.

A “coke bar” served as refreshment at the C0-
Rec Evening. Refreshments, especially some sort
of cool drink such as lemonade or punch, should
be prepared to quench the thirst of the players and
satisfy the always hungry children.

If the evening doesn’t last long enough because
of darkness, lights can be strung outdoors by
means of extension cords tacked onto the badmin—

ton posts or the side of a near-by house.

RECREATION

A Canteen for Teen-Agers

UVENILE DELINQUENCY and
J what could be done to al-

leviate it in a community which takes in three
parts of Philadelphia known as Roxborough,
Manayunk and Wissahickon—that was the prob-
lem facing the Community Council of Philadel—
phia’s twenty-first ward.

But it didn’t take the Council long to find a
solution to this problem—a canteen for the teen
age children. In no time at all there was a com-
mittee composed of high school students and
women in the community who were willing to
work.

‘ Provided with $60 from the Community Coun-
cil, lhe committee set out to
find a place to house their can-
teen. A local
recreation cen-
ter was chosen
and decorated
to resemble a
real canteen.
‘ One of the
‘ mothers on the
:10 m m i t t e e
eaded a sub—
ommittee on
ecoration and
nlisted the ser-
vices of a local
gommercial art-
ist and of her
own husband, a
local hardware
man. The artist
suggested strip-
ed paper awn-
i gs over office
’ windows and
flower boxes
underneath, lat-
tice work, white
fences, artificial
Virginia creep-
ers, and a band—
stand built on
the stairway in
graduated.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    

SEPTEMBER 1944

By DOROTHY M. WOLFF

Bradford is another Pennsylvanié city
'which is providing a center for youth

 

levels. The lattice work was all
donated by a local lumber com-
pany. A soda bar was rigged up surrounded by a
dozen tables covered with red, White, and blue oil— '
cloth with pennants of the local schools decorating
the walls. Smoking is permitted, but is confined
to the soda bar: The committee decided that if
the young people weren’t allowed to smoke they’d
go where they could. It was soon discovered that
granting the privilege has removed some of its at-
traction as forbidden fruit, and smoking is really
very moderate in the canteen.

There’s a game room with three ping-pong
tables, checkers, plain and Chinese, and shuffle-
board. The teen-agers find this
room a fine place to get ac-
quainted with
each other,
especially be-
fore the danc-
ing gets into
full swing—and
the game room
i s u s u a l l y
crowded all
evening.

When music
was needed a
student orches-
tra came for-
ward and re-
hearsed every
night for two
weeks before
the opening. As
a fill-in during
intermissions
there is a juke
box loaned by
a man in the
community.
R 0 Kb 0 r o ugh
High School
supplied its
amplifying sys-
tem, making it

(Continued on
page 333)

 

Photo by R. D. Fraser, Bradford, 

293

° ' l
The Blair Community Center .
By CAROLINE F. NEHMER

HEN THE teachers of o . In this way'the entire school
W the Austin-Blair Ele- PrinC'Pal' Aushn'Bla'r E'emtnla')’ SChool had an active part in the plan-
I JacksonI Michigan

m e n t a r y S c h o 01 in ning and organization of the

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 

Jackson, Michigan, realized I prOJCCt. ‘
last year that a recreation center for children was Once the planning was well underway, the next.
a definite community need for the long summer problem-—and no small one—was how to finance'
months ahead, they lost no time in finding out just such a project.

how they could meet this need. Several months In past years there had always been a play-
later, these same people could point proudly to the ‘ ground supervisor dur1ng the summer months, but
Blair Community Center at the Blair school where this worker was usually a stranger 1n the commu-
youngsters from about IO to 12 years of age, and nity and therefore not too well acquainted with the
preschool children, too, gathered for supervised individual children and the1r needs. In v1ew of
play under the experimental project. this, it seemed desirable to have at least one per-

But the Center didn’t become a reality over son on the staff who was well acquainted with the
night, for there were many difficulties in the way. individual and group needs of the communityq
Blair School is located at the very edge of the city After investigations were made, the pr1nc1pal was
and in an area where the delinquency rate was invited to explain the plans for the communityI
unusually high. Many of the students’ parents are center to the Executive Board of the Jackson Rec-'
factory workers who, during the school months, reation Council.
adjusted their working shifts in such a way that The Board voted unanimously to finance and.
at least one of them would be home at the time .aid the proposed plans and the principal was ap-

when the children were not in school. However, pointed to act as supervisor with two assistants.
during the summer months many of these children The project was to be experimental, and the super-
were left more or less on their own. visors were free to work out their programs in the
One of the first steps taken to relieve this situa- best way to meet the needs of the community.
tion was to conduct a survey in Before the planners could go
an attempt to determine the any further, more information
immal needs 0f the Children dur- in fhe library of fhe Blair Cor‘nmu- W825 necessary’ so a queStian
mg the summer months- When nify Cen’rerI and guidance in read- mler was prepared by the prm‘

the survey was completed ing was given ifa child requested if Cipal and_ distribUted t0
and the data compiled, a every famlly who had a

A period was set aside for reading

Council, consisting of two
representatives from each
room in Blair School, was
organized.

The Council met weekly
with the school’s principal
to discuss interests and
needs and to make recom-
mendations. The representa-
tives kept their classmates
informed on the plans and
progress of the project and
all the school children were
invited to make suggestions
and recommendations to the
representatives who, in turn,
presented them at meetings.

294

 

child in school. Through the
cooperation of the teachers
and parents almost ninety-
eight per cent of these ques-
tionnaires were filled out
' and returned.

   
  
  
  
  
  

Some of the questions in-
cluded were: “Do you plan
for your children to be
the playground this sum
mer P” “What hours duri

for .lunch ?”

 

Gage Harmon ( C omimwd on page 332)

RECREATIO

. operation of the organizations and indi-

lt's Time to Plan.

HALLOWEEN parade has
become a traditional
activity of the Brattle—

boro, Vermont, Recreation
Department. In 1943 it was the first
community activity which the new
superintendent was to direct, and the co—

viduals in the community was tremend-
ously encouraging.

The children, organized by classes in
the schools, reported to their respective
schoolrooms at 6 :30 in the evening. The
American Legion provided marshals for
each class, and their Commander'led the
parade as chief marshal. Each class was
taken through the back streets to the
Green Street school where the parade

. formed, and went through the. main

street to the Common where prizes, pro-

vided by the Parent—Teacher Association of the
four grade schools in the town, were awarded to
the three boys and girls having the funniest, pret-
tiest, and the most authentic costumes. A banner
provided by the Recreation Department is awarded
annually to the school having the best representa-
ion and characterization. The parade was led by
lhe Hinsdale High School band, which was spon—
Tored by the Lions Club.

In the past it had -been the policy to give the
children refreshments after‘they had returned to
their schools, but 8:30 seemed an early hour for
boys and girls to go home and be good children on
Halloween night! Consequently, live churches
were encouraged to give parties for different grades
or groups who participated in the parade, and only
the smaller children were given refreshments at
their schools. The refreshments were solicited and
served by the American Legion Auxiliary.

Approximately 850 grade school children par—
ticipated in the parade. A masquerade was held
following the parade for the
high school boys and girls,
with an attendance of about
250. The orchestra, which
came from out of town, was
paid for by funds solicited by
an interested citizen. The re-
freshments of cider and dough—

SEPTEMBER 1944

in annual

A gross reduction of eighty per cent
in Halloween vandalism is the tine
record of five years of civic cooper-
ation in Toledo. Ohio. The story of
this interesting experiment is told
reports. of the
County. Ohio. Juvenile Court. and

in reports of community agencies.

  
  

for Halloween!

nuts were donated by the Brattle-
boro Order of Elks. The Woman’s
Club provided the hostesses, and
the Young Woman’s Club served
the refreshments. The prizes were
solicited from five department
stores in town. The organizations
and people in the community seemed
to go “all out” for a free show for
the children on Halloween.

The Chief of Police stated that
practically no vandalism had been
reported on this Halloween night.

Gedge H arman

ln Lucas County, Ohio. It started
five years ago when the probation oiiicer of the
Lucas County, Ohio, Juvenile Court, alarmed by
the increase in destructive Halloween pranks, called
together representatives of a group of agencies and
a Halloween Committee was organized to combat
the trouble.

In past years the vandalism had started around
the first of October, reaching a climax on Hal-
loween with police and fire sirens screaming in all
parts of the city in a frantic effort to catch up with
the youthful mischief makers. Even though only a
small proportion was apprehended, it was enough
to be reflected in the Juvenile Court records for
October 1937, and it set the Court to thinking.

There must be a way of meeting the situation,
the new Halloween Committee believed, and its
final solution was parties, more parties, still more
parties; enough to avoid large concentrations; in
every neighborhood, all over the city; every night
for a week up to and including Halloween. Every-
body was to be invited and there would be no

- charge, but plenty of good fun
under capable leadership.

Churches, schools and agen—
cies of all kinds cooperated—
in what numbers it is impos—
sible to say definitely as the
records for 1938 were not

295

Lucas

296 IT’S TIME TO PLAN FOR HALLOWEEN!

completed. But the police records were not in-
complete. They showed a decrease of five per cent
in vandalism complaints, thirty per cent in false
alarms, and nineteen per cent in broken lights as

compared with the preceding year.

In 1939 the committee on arrangements was
expanded. The schools conducted an educational.
campaign in the classrooms. There were 135
parties attended by nearly 50,000 people of all age
groups. Result: police complaints down thirty per
cent, false alarms down twenty per cent, broken
lights down twenty-five per cent from the year

before.

In 1940 the city council of Parent-Teacher As-
sociations took over and sponsored the program,
retaining the chief probation officer of Juvenile
Court as chairman. The City Recreation Division
of the Department of Public Welfare turned over
all its shelter houses. An‘intensified campaign was
carried out in every schoolroom. Forty-six
churches, fifty-two schools and a hundred Boy
Scout troops cooperated with the program. There
were 315 parties with over 2,500 persons assisting.
But the interest aroused stimulated many other
groups to arrange their own small parties. Result:
police complaints reduced fifteen per cent, false
alarms thirty-eight per cent, broken lights sixty-
one per cent from the preceding year. In three

years general police calls for vandalism had fallen
off nearly fifty per cent.

In 1941, under the same sponsorship and chair-
manship, there were over 500 parties with more
than 3,000 people serving on the various" subcom-
mittees. Police calls were down two per cent, false

alarms thirty per cent, and broken lights thirty per
cent from 1940.

A continuation of the Halloween program in
1942 resulted in further reduction in vandalism
during this critical period. Again more than 500
separate celebrations were sponsored by the com-
mittee in charge, with a total attendance of more
than 100,000 children, and with over 3,500 people
serving on the various committees on arrange—
ments. The figures show reduction in broken street
lights, forty-five per cent; in false alarms, six per
cent; in police calls, six per cent. October, the

usual heavy month for delinquencies, took third
place in 1942.

Thus, through unstinted and expanding cooper-
ation by public agencies, notably the City Welfare
Department, schools, Fire and Police Depart-
ments, and private agencies such as Parent-Teacher
Associations, and churches, Halloween vandalism
appears to have been brought under reasonable
control. It has not been stopped. There will
always be an irreducible minimum. Indications are
that the campaigns will be continued so that that
irreducible may be reached and maintained.

While the Juvenile Court is not by law or phi-
losophy designed to prevent juvenile delinquency
—the child comes to Court only after he is delin-
quent——Toledo’s experience demonstrates what
such a Court may accomplish by furnishing lead-
ership to prevent delinquency and what a coma.
munity can do through c00peration to providel
wholesome substitutes for destructive mischief. '

-

In Lagrange County. Indiana. According to the
superintendent of the Lagrange Consolidated
School, a “riproaring Halloween shebang” at the
school solved the problem of vandalism in that.
locality. There’s no admission price and the party
is open to everyone, including adults. There are
costumes, side shows, dancing; and the youngsters
are encouraged to make as much noise as they
possibly can.

The program at the school consists of stunt
designed to wear the students out as well as pro
vide them with good Halloween fun. The loca
merchants donate prize money for costume awards y'
which are made after the annual parade.

For twenty-two years the program hasn’t faile
Of course there are a few soaped windows her
and there . . . but students themselves take charg
of rectifying such damage, and the culprit clean
the window himself. (Students have a way 0
knowing who the pranksters are.)

Seventh and eighth graders\ and high scho
students run the side shows. High school junior ,
sell pumpkin pie, sweet cider, doughnuts an
coffee. And there’s dancing, too, ’til midnight . .
if anyone has any energy left after the parad
prizes and side shows.

To top it all there’s a reward! If a checkup
the town the following day shows there was no
destruction, the school gets a half-holiday. And it
usually does !

RECREATION

 

Columbia's Far-Flung Recreation Program

sponsibility for transport—
ing 15,000 dancing partners
to training camps near your
1 city and getting them safely
back to their homes; if you’ve and
ever attempted to provide
dances over a period of years
for 136,000 officers and pri-
vates, then you will appreciate
some of the problems faced by our Recreation De-
partment last year in sponsoring 273 dances for
Fort Jackson and the Columbia Air Base.
Dances are only a part of our program. There’s
our athletic program, which was initiated when
one of our recreation supervisors announced that
she hoped to sponsor regular athletic engagements
for teams from Fort Jackson, Columbia Army Air
Base, college and career girls,
servicemen’s wives, and local

IF YOU’VE EVER had the re«

civilians.

By W. H. HARTH

The Columbia' South Carolina' Rec-

reation Department in I943 provided
recreation for over a million soldiers
including
The story of this achievement is
told by Mr. Har’rhI Director of the

recreation program in that city.

The Elks' Fraternal Center otters unique
facilities for social life out. of doors

business firms. A few months
later she was able to report
that these plans 'Were realities,
thus setting another record for
the Department.

Conside'red by leaders to be
among the most valuable con-
tributions made by the athletic
program are the following:
I. Troops, which, because of
their temporary status at the Fort and Air Base,
cannot get into” scheduled athletics at their posts,
are given an opportunity for engagements; 2. Rec—
reation which might not be possible at military
posts is provided and expanded by the city; 3.
Army men like to come to Columbia to participate
in games because it offers a change of scene and an
atmosphere like that which they would have back
home.

Strong support has been

children.

 

SEPTEMBER 1944

297

298’ COLUMBIA’S FAR-FLUNG RECREATION PROGRAM

gained for the city’s home hospitality program
through which invitations are extended by Colum-
bians and accepted by soldiers, for everything
from dinner and dancing in town to luxurious
week ends at wealthy Aiken winter estates. Plan-
ned exclusively for men in the service, the pro-

gram entertained 17,015 of this group during 1943.

Centers Everywhere

Twenty-one centers were fully developed for
year-round enjoyment of Columbians, both white
and Negro, as well as the military personnel and
their families stationed here.

The most typical example of Columbia’s park
centers is the 9% acre Valley Park. Offered there
for use of soldiers and civilians of the community
are a recreation building, four well-equipped ten-
nis courts, an excellently floodlighted softball field,
movable sports equipment, a large dance patio
donated last year by local organizations, and a
boxing ring built recently by the city.

Three square dances a week, two military
parties and a Sunday afternoon open house, with
programs planned by soldiers and civilians, are
scheduled regularly. The Valley Park Mothers
Club helps directly with the preschool operated for
youngsters too young to enroll in school. Com-
munity programs are planned by the Valley Park
Patrons Club and the park’s Teen Age Girls Club.
The newly organized Teen Age Boys Club is en-
gaged now in setting up its program for boys of
high school age who have not yet been called for
Army service. Afternoon parties are given by the
teen age clubs, too.

Another outstanding park is Earlewood with its
27%,; acres of beautiful woods teeming with wild~
fiowers. Any nature lover would forget himself on
this secluded hillside, just as do the little children
' enjoying the playground equipment. It’s a verita-
ble recreation center with tennis, softball, baseball,
volley ball, table tennis, Dutch ovens, picnic shelters
and a building, with kitchen, where three square
dances are held weekly for the benefit of the com-
munity and military personnel for near-by Fort
Jackson and Columbia Army Air Base.

Also one night is given to young people who
have the entire run of the building. These young
boys and girls are organized into clubs and plan
their own entertainment with the assistance of the
park hostesses. Two nights are open for reser-
vations. On Sunday, open house is enjoyed and
refreshments are served.

From early morning until late at night this park

is active with its morning preschool, afternoon
playground and nightly soldier entertainment.
Here, too, the community participates in activities
through various clubs.

Arsenal Hill, whose name is derived from being
an arsenal during the Civil War, furnishes enter-
tainment six nights a week to soldiers and civilians
alike. Two square dances are held weekly. Th
Armyettes, an active girls’ club, entertains soldier
every Monday night. The teachers of the city hav
organized into a club to plan parties for the me
in service twice a month. Saturday is Navy N igh
when the Navy Mothers Club throws open th
doors to V -12 and V-5 boys at the University 0
South Carolina.

The building has two fioors and includes .
kitchen. There is also an acre park with Dut ‘
oven and picnic tables, outdoor dance floor, as wel
as playground equipment. This center, located 0
the crest of a hill, overlooks“ the city and its multi
colored lights attract the servicemen from afar.

Old Howard, a Negro center, offers an audi
torium, kitchen, reading room, Dutch oven an
playground equipment to servicemen and civilians
Dances, games, parties and dinners are enjoye
here and various Negro clubs assist with the en
tertainment. I

Heathwood, Melrose, Irwin, Sims and Shando 
Parks have excellent playground equipment an
cabins which can be reserved for parties and club
Brownie and Scout Troops are well organized 
these parks. St. Anne’s Mission is a Negro pla
ground.

Preschools are held daily except Saturday an
Sunday in eight parks. Here three to six-year-ol
children spend four happy hours and release thei
mothers for defense work and home duties.

Then there’s the unique Elks Fraternal Cent
which displays a long flight of steps flanked by
white picket fence with amusing signs, such a
“Hi! Service Men, Come on Down,” “Beat f,
MP’s,” “KP Phooey,” “Don’t Get Around Mu
Anymore,” and “MI 30 Calibre Blonde, Rec
Operated.”

In the summer, soldiers with their girls can 9
seen dancing on the patio, seated at the varicolor 8’
tables surrounding the patio, sipping soft drin 7~
and chatting. In the winter, this same sce 6
changes to a large open fire, around which coupl ‘
sit eating p0pcorn, apples and peanuts, dancing i
termittently. This is truly a year-round recreati
center.

 
    
  
  
 
 
 

(Continued on page 328)
RECREATIo w

I s

 AST FALL Wilkes—Barre or-
O

ganized its city-wide Peo-
ple’s Chorus and Com-

. munity Orchestra. Patterned

' after the organization of the
:same name in New York City,

‘ it has set a number of objec-
tives for itself:

To stimulate a desire for
musical expression and

to provide the opportunity for group as well
as individual musical participation

To promote and assist in community programs
for educational as well as recreational pur-

poses

To assist in the development of an understand-
ing and appreciation of the best music

To help worthy and ambitious music students

There are no voice tests, and any person is
welcome who has the desire to sing and can attend
regularly. Six months after its organization, the
group contained thirty-two singers and twenty-
eight instrumentalists. It is growing steadily, and
each week there are new members. Many of the
musicians in the orchestra are veteran players, but
they are there not because they are good players

9

but because music is their hobby.

The rehearsals are held every Monday evening
in one of the high school music rooms under the
leadership of Prof. C.‘ F. Nagro, a teacher in the
Department of Music of the city schools.

Professor Nagro has been a member of the
Wilkes-Barre Music Department since 1930 and
prior to that was a member of the faculty of Albright

SEPTEMBER 1944

Are you one of the people who have
always wanted to sing or play a musical
instrument? And has it been your ex-
perience that you iust couldn't find a
group where you could lose your shy-
ness' and self-consciousness? Don't be
discouraged! More cities are tak-
ing steps all the time to provide for
I'musically-shy" folks. Wilkes-Barre.
Pennsylvania, is one of these cities.

 

A People's Chorus and Community Orchestra

College. He holds the degree
of Bachelor of Music from
the American Conservatory
of Music, Chicago, and is a
Master of Science in Music
Education from the Univers-
ity of Pennsylvania.

' When the organization was
being formed, naturally it was
a small group, but regard-

less of its size, those who came always got a thrill
from singing or playing because each member felt
he was having a pleasurable experience. The or-
chestra plays for all rehearsals and this lends

greatly to this experience.

Gounod.

What does the PeOple’s Chorus sing? This is a
question often asked. The program is varied to
meet the needs of the group; usually there are
some folk songs, ballads, patriotic songs, opera"
selections, and popular numbers.
Music Week Victory Sing the chorus gave a con-
certized version of part of the opera Faust by

At a recent

It may be of interest to others contemplating
similar organizations to know that considerable
material is available for vocal and instrumental

ensembles. There are several concertized versions

of the best-loved operas. In addition there are
also the standard arrangements of well-known
choruses all available with orchestral parts.

The People’s Chorus and Orchestra is already
accepted as a musical force in the community. It
has taken the lead in several Victory Sings, has

(Continued on page 334)

299

Recreation a Developing Profession '

IgpFEssmNAL recognition to

me appears to be indicated by

the dignity and worth that the
general public holds for a particu»
lar calling. Professional groups,
like individuals, pass through definite periods of
development. _ Medicine and law represent mature
professions. Education, on the other hand, is rela-
tively a new profession in the sense that its recog-
nition by the general public and its meeting of
standards which characterize a profession are of
more recent date.

Now what of recreation—your particular call-
ing and mine? What is its prestige? With what
dignity and worth does the general public hold our
profession? Or shall I ask if recreation is a pro-
fession? Although this question has been raised
over and over again, there is still a lack of agree-
ment as to the answer. Some unhesitatingly say
“yes”; others answer “no”; while still others say
“not yet, but it is becoming a profession.”

This difference of opinion suggests three ques-
tlons:

What are the characteristics of a profession?

To what,extent does recreation possess the
characteristics of a profession?

If recreation is not yet a profession, can it
become a profession?

The following list of criteria distinguishes a
profession from a trade or business:

I. A profession has a body of scientific knowl-
edge and corresponding skill in practice.

2. The knowledge and skill can be acquired only
by extended study and practice by persons
who have the necessary native endowment.

3. The welfare of community, ‘state, and nation
depends upon services
only by those who have
this knowledge and skill.

4. The members, by virtue
of special qualifications
for public service, incur
definite obligations to
each other and to the
public. I

Now in order for us to de-

termine to what extent recre-
ation possesses the charac-

By ALLAN KRIM, Ed. M.

Recreation Department
Board of Education
NewarkI New Jersey

 

Mr. KrimI in addition to his duties as
a member of the staff of the Newark
Recreation DepartmentI serves as in-
structor in Recreation Administration at
Panzer College. East Orange, New Jersey.

Both Mr. Krim and the National Recre-
ation Association will welcome comments
on the article. It you don't agree with
any of the conclusions presented, don't
hesitate to register your opinion!

teristics of a profession, eight I
questions are raised for consid-
eration: ,
I. Is there a body' of specialized
technical knowledge pertain—
ing to recreation?

2. Are high standards required for entrance to
recreation ?

3. Do recreation personnel engage in recreation
as a life work?

4. Do recreation personnel remain in the same
community for a fairly long period ?

5. Does the public hold recreation in high esteem?

6. Do recreation workers have a feeling of group
consciousness ?

7. Do recreation workers have professional
standards for the regulation of their group?

8. Do recreation workers place service above
personal gains?

Is there a body of scientific
knowledge to recreation?

Although the data is far from complete, I be-
lieve that we can agree that a considerable amount
of knowledge pertaining to recreation is now.
available. We have a definite accumulation of
knowledge which gives a real philosophy of recre-
ation. We have seen evidences of the development
of content and subject matter in the introduction
of recreation as a college and university course of
study. We have also witnessed an increased out-
put of literature pertaining to recreation. There
have also been evidences of recreational research
and study in communities, all of which indicates a
body of specialized knowledge.

Are high standards required
for entrance to recreation?
Not only does a profession
have a body of scientific
knowledge, but it must have
corresponding. skill in prac-
tice. The knowledge and skill
can be acquired only by eX-
tended study and practice by
persons who have the neces-
sary native endowment. It
must be admitted that stand-

 

300

RECREATION

l
l

RECREATION A, DEVELOPING PROFESSION

ards for entrance to recreation have been low in
emerging. It is only since 1938 that the booklet on
Standards of Training, Experience and C ornpensa-
tion in Community Recreation Work * was pub-
lished.

The war, with its lack of manpower, is causing
us to forget about standards and we tend to make
the mistake of the past in permitting individuals
with no training to enter the field. The teaching
profession has also lowered its standards some-

: what, but at least its certification set-up will pre-
l vent a good many from remaining unless they meet

certification requirements. The obstructive influ-
ence of politicians, the small salaries with no pen-
sion, and the limited appreciation of the import-
ance of trained personnel on the part of those re-
sponsible for budgeting are a few reasons for low
standards. a

Do recreation personnel engage in
recreation as a life work?

Unfortunately, recreation is not considered as a
life career by thousands of men and women who
enter its ranks. The annual turnover, due to the
fact that compensation is not commensurate with
the training of these workers, and the fact that
they can go into other fields of work, make recrea-
tion a stepping stone for better paid positions. The
fact that so many of our community programs
operate in certain seasons of the year handicaps us
from getting people to engage in recreation as a
life work.

Do recreation personnel remain in the
same community for a fairly long period?

Recreation personnel remains comparatively a
short time in a given community. This again is
caused by the fact that 'as new and better paid
positions open up, the trained recreation worker
moves up. Only in the big cities, for the most
part, do we see personnel remaining for any
length of time.

Does the public hold recreation in high esteem?

Professions are recognized by the public as ren—
dering a necessary social service and are held in
high esteem. Public recognition, however, mani—
fests itself in various ways. The public is some-
what confused as to what constitutes a recreation
leader. This is due to the fact that so many have
come into recreation with training in fields only
partially, if at all, related to the broad field of rec-

* National Recreation Association. 25 cents.

SEPTEMBER 1944

301

 

They're looking to
us for leadership.
Are we giving

them the best
we can otter?

  

Ge'dge Harmon

reation. Our seasonal programs still attract the
transient play leader, the high school or college
athlete who is looking for a summer’s outing, or
the school teacher who, because of financial strin—
gencies, accepts an additional job.

Do recreation workers have a feeling
of group consciousness?

This is manifesting itself slowly through recrea-
tion workers’ organizations. The National Rec-
reation Association, Society of Recreation Work-
ers of America, the state associations, and the
local associations all indicate a trend to, group
consciousness. However, even here we fall short,
since comparatively few actually belong.

Do recreation workers have professional
standards for regulating a group?

One of the characteristics of a profession is an
attempt, on the part of the members, to establish
standards to govern the relation of their group to
the general public and to members of the profes—
sion. It was in 1938 or 1939 that the Society for
Recreation Workers set up a credo for the recre-
ation profession which dealt chiefly with the rec-
reation worker in his relation to the general public.

Do recreation workers place
service above personal gain?

Those of us who remain and who pursue recre-

'ation as a life work definitely place service above

personal gain. Almost all of us are in this field
(Continued on page 331)

Square Dancing During lntermissions

" HAT CAN we do to enter—
W tain a larger number of
the servicemen who come

to the club for the dance?”

This was the question we asked ourselves after
the first of our USO dances, when we discovered
that only about a half of the soldiers and sailors
present had taken part in social dancing. Some,
to be sure, had played table tennis, stood around
the piano, or visited with the hostesses, but a very
large number had merely stood in the corners of
the room watching the others.

Our second dance was to have music provided
by a good military band. In talking to the leader
of the band a day or so before the dance, we
learned that at ten o’clock there would be a half
hour intermission. That gave us our inspiration!

When ten o’clock arrived on the night of the
dance, and the orchestra had left the hall, without
any announcement the excellent piano player we
had secured for the occasion started playing “Red
River Valley” in square dance tempo. It worked
out just as we had hoped it would when we planned
it! Almost every man who had been sitting on the
side lines or standing in the corner rushed on the
floor and began doing his own version of the dance.
Then the leader stopped the music for a brief pause

and gave the following instructions:

1. Circles of four couples
See that the lady is at the gent’s right .
Circle to the left
Circle to the right
Forward and back to the center
Forward and back once again
(We will do that much to the music)

2. One circle (everybody—one circle)
Lady at gent’s right
Drop hands
Spread out
All stand on right foot (left foot free)
Dip up and down on right foot
Dip on right foot and tap with left foot
Now dip on right foot and swing left foot,
Now dip on right foot and turn yourself with the left
(Now we will do that much to the music)

3. All the ladies on one side of the room
Gents on the other side of the room
(Music)
Grand march
Forward two
First two to the right

302

By G. V. MCCAUSLAND
St. Joseph. Michigan

7. After the introduction—the first couple leads down t

Forward four
First four to the right
Second four to the left ‘ I

I
Second two to the left i
I
|

Forward eight
(When first eight come to the end of the room)
Circle eight

4. We will practice the swing (by ourselves again

Now, gents, take your partner’s right hand in your left
hand, and put your right hand on her left hip, and
the girl puts her left hand on the gent’s shoulder

You both stand on your right foot

You place the outside of your right foot side by sideI
and you use your right foot as a pivot as you paddle
around to the left with your left foot I

As you swing you lean away from your partner

(We will practice the swing with our partners)

(Music) I

5. Now you all join hands and you circle
Circle left—ethen you circle to the right
Now you forward and Iback to the center
And you forward and ‘back once again
Now you all swing your gals in the valley
Swing them ’round and around and around
(Stop music)

“Fine”

6. Now, gents, take your gal’s right hand—lift it over 'he

head and rest it on her right shoulder

Take her left hand in your left hand

And everyone walk around the circle once and stop a
the place you started from

(Music)

All swing your partners

And promenade once around

(Stop music)

   
 
 
 
   
  

“The first couple is the couple with their backs to 111‘
music—the next couple to the right is the serion
couple—the next couple to the right is the thir
couple—the next couple to the right is the four
couple.”

valley (to the couple on the right) and swings t .
opposite lady and then his own partner

The first couple then leads on- down the valley a
does the same with the third and fourth couples

Then everybody swings in\the valley

And promenade once around

(Music—and the complete dance)

8. Oh, you all join hands and you circle
Circle left—then you circle to the right
'Now you forward and back to the center ,
And you forward and back once again
Now you all swing your gals in the valley
Swing ’emjround and around and around

RECREATIOB

l

l

SQUARE DANCING DURING INTERMISSIONS

And now you take your partner
And you promenade one time around

Now the first couple leads down the valley
Circle left—then you circle to the right
(Four hands ’round with the second couple)
Now you swing the opposite lady
But don’t forget your Red River [gal (swing your own
partner) -

Now you lead right on and you circle
Circle left—thenyou circle to the right
Now you swing the opposite lady
But don’t forget your Red River gal
(And so on until all have taken their turn)\

The “Red River Valley” is a good dance to

begin with, but any dance may be used. We didn’t .

try to teach the left allemande or the grand right
and left when we were working with a new group.
Because the servicemen are not usually in one

' town long enough to attend the same club many

ltimes, we have done most of our square dancing
'without the left allemande and the grand right and
left.

It has been our experience that it is much better
to introduce the square dance at the intermission
period by playing a square dance tune than by try-
ing to get the dancers 0n the fioor first and then
playing the tune. Our plan at all intermissions is
£0 have a square dance tune played without any

 

nnouncement and then, when the group is on the

oor, to give a few simple instructions. The “Red

iver Valley,” as outlined, can be taught in fifteen
ninutes. This allows fifteen minutes either to do
he dance again for practice, or to do some part of
the dance which the players may not thoroughly
pnderstand.

N ever try to put over square dancing on a group
which has come to do social or ballroom dancing!

j [T his usually makes the guests feel they have been
' cheated out of some time which they have counted

on for ballroom dancing. Men on leave have only
a short time for recreation, and if they decide to
spend the evening at a regular dance they do not
want to use that time for
complicated mixers or
square dances. The intro-
duction of square dancing
at intermissions, however,
cannot be objected to be-
cause nothing else is going
on. The orchestra is out of
the room, and the floor is
clear. Those who have been
dancing to the orchestra
music may wish to rest 0r

SEPTEMBER 1944

mission time.

take place.

TO PUT IT BRIEFLY

I. Try introducing a square dance at inter-

2. Let the music announce what is going to

303

 

The July issue of RECREATION carried an
article by Laurence B. Cairns telling of.
the popularity of country dancing at USO
clubs. In this issue Mr. McCausIandl Ex-
ecutive SecretaryI St. Joseph-Benton Har-
bor. Michigan. Community Chest. gives us
a leaf from his experience in conducting
square dancing at many clubs.

Mr. McCausIand is _a social worker by
profession; but his hobby is square danc-
ing. and he has given courses in square

dance calling at Ohio State University.

 

visit, but those who don’t know how to do ball—
room dancing may now have their turn. When it
becomes known. that square dances will be taught
during intermissions, many men will take part in
the evening fun who formerly spent their time
standing on the side lines.

In some of the OCD training courses for host—
esses, square dancing is being taught as a part of
the regular course. Many girls have enjoyed these
lessons even with no men present. One evening a
group of forty-five nurses had a square dance, and
since there were no men present the girls took
turns in wearing strips of crepe paper to show they
were taking the part of men in the dance. There is
great advantage in the girls knowing square danc—
ing and starting it, for then the men will join them.
This is true, of course, of activities other than
square dancing! “

It is possible to use intermissions at a dance for
adaptations of square dances, and it may be better
in some cases not to give the figures any names at
all. Many square dances introduced at intermis-
sions make good mixers, among them the “Grape
Vine Twist” and “Alabama Jubilee.”

As soon as the orchestra leaves the room for
intermission, have a square dance tune played on
the piano. (Accordion or fiddle and piano are

also good.)

Then the leader will say:

Circle all—or one large circle
Lady at gent’s right

Break that circle with the lady
in the lead single file—In-
dian style

3. Don't try to force anyone to take part.
4. Teach only very little the first time.

5. See that all have a good time even it they
do not do the dance exactly right.

6. And remember the old standard principle:
"Stop while they're asking for more."

Turn and swing her once in a
while

(Gent turns and'swings the
lady behind him)

( Continued on page 330)

Sport Makes Good Flying Men

By Group Captain C. D. TOMALIN

TIILETES who have devoted

A themselves to swimming

are lucky today. I realize

that from my own wartime ex-
perience.

In many sports—notably boxing and wrestling
——the accent is on the individual. The individual
is trained to think of his own condition, his own
skill, his own reactions and only incidentally of his
opponent, so that he will pr0perly appreciate the
standard of preparation necessary for himself. But
in most of the amateur clubs, and particularly in
Britain’s amateur swimming clubs such as mine,
the membership includes every type of man and
woman. Some of my fellow members perform the
humblest tasks “for a living. Others are prominent
in the professions. These differences disappear
when we are in our swimming pool stripped for
action, for the success of the
club, as a club, depends utterly
on the team Spirit of coopera—

Captain Tomalin. who is champion
English swimmerl
tine fighting record in this war

and holds the Air Force Cross

SkatingI as well as swimmingI is a
sport which makes a contribution

tion. The only criterion is then:
How will it help the club? Not
how will it help me?

I have known many instances
of members, who were on the
very top in the athletic sense, take time off their
own training to give advice and training to younger
members who showed promise. And I have known
them to persist enthusiastically in this training right
up to and beyond the day when the pupil defeated
his teacher.

It is precisely the same in the Royal Air Force.
Time after time I have seen a first class pilot who
has completed a long tour of operational duty take
up instructional work with as much enthusiasm as
he had given formerly to his own operations.
Why? Because he had found a pupil with the keen-
ness and the promise that matched that which he
himself had possessed. Into the
training of that pupil the veteran
pilot will put all his knowledge

has made a

to the efficiency of tighting men

 

...r_._--— «Mr. “w—qq-r‘n,  r. .. ,---7-7 -m

 

Courtesy Ne York C ity Park Department :

RECREATION

 

SPORT MAKES GOOD FLYING MEN 305

and spirit, with the result
that the day comes when
the pupil is a better fight-
ing man than his teacher
and actually takes his place
in operations. This is the
spirit of cooperation of the
amateur sports club trans-
lated into fighting terms.
There is also the ele-
ment of physical fitness.
As a diver I have always
had to keep in excellent
condition, and now that I
am on flying operations my past training stands
me in good stead. This business of keeping in
good physical shape is so automatic that I find it
no great strain to come straight from an Opera-

gible pleasure. .

‘ . ‘tional trip and go directly to the nearest swimming

pool and give exhibitions of diving. In fact, the
one physical strain offsets the other.

There must be something in these theories, since
for two months running my squadron were top
scorers in RAF Fighter Command for shooting
down German aircraft over their own bases. And
that, of course, is the main preoccupation nowa-
days. My own sporting background has, I know,
made a valuable contribution to my own part.

Another article dealing with the importance of
athletics and sports in developing physical fitness
in fighting men appeared in the February 1944
issue of Think magazine under the title, “Sports
and Combat Training.” The article, reprinted by
permission, follows:

“In every branch of the armed forces athletics
has become an indispensable part of training for
combat duty. In no branch of the service is this
more evident than in the Pre-Flight Division of
the Navy. Athletics here is on a par with physics
and mathematics. Every cadet is required to
participate in every sport, whether it be what is
generally regarded as a major sport, such as foot-
ball, baseball or track, or one or another of the
games of the school boy variety, such as Follow
the Leader.

“Manuals have been prepared so that cadets
may know what they are in for. The latest is
called M ass Exercise, which is a far cry from the
tedium associated with squads rhythmically going
through calisthenics. In every case great emphasis
is placed on the competitive spirit, and all the
events wind up with a championship series. «-

SEPTEMBER 1944

"There is much to be said for sports. When
you go to bat against the opposing pitcher.
and you take a deep lusty swing at the ball.
and you hear the crack of the bat meeting the
ballI and you see the ball sailing far over the
center field fenceI this is a moment of tan-
. . When your ball is twenty
feet from the cup. and the green is roughI
so that the ball must take three deliberate
hops before it reaches the cupI what is your
state of beatitude as you watch the ball drop
into the cup! These are prieasures to be de-
rived only from sports. There is a great
deal to be said for sports."—From circular

issued by The Readers Club, New York City.

“Six-ball soccer, in which
there may be as many as
one hundred players on a
side, is an excellent exam-
ple of the evident intention
to instil fun and rough-
and-tumble rivalry into a
game which, in a way,
simulates conditions of
actual warfare.

“The game creates plenty
of excitement. Six balls are
put simultaneously into
play, with six referees on
hand to call the three varieties of fouls, among
them ‘rough or slugging play,’ which are recog-
nized. One can readily imagine the stout courage
generated when two hundred healthy young
‘animals’ are in ‘full cry.’ As soon as one ball is
knockedfor a goal, the score is recorded and that
ball is then taken out of play for the remainder of
the game. Finally there is but one ball left, and
still there are two hundred men in pursuit of it.
When it is at length put through for a goal, the
triumph to these lusty young men getting ready
for war may call up pictures of them successfully
storming a beach.

“Then there are relay races in which the num-
ber of participants may be unlimited. And when
the first man on a relay team has run his race, he
goes to the end of the line of"his team prepared
to start all over again when his next turn comes.
This race, in so far as the rules are concerned, may
keep on from ‘dawn till dewy eve.’ In much the
same category is tug of: war, with unlimited num-
bers on both sides. Mass volley ball may have as
many as seventy-two on each side.’ Speedball
Junior stipulates that the contestants shall kick a
soccer ball with their feet while lying on their
backs, and shall move along the ground in crab
fashion.

“Still other contests are three-legged relays,
wheelbarrow relays, horse and ride relays, and
good old Prisoners’ Base adapted to the principle
of warfare, which is that prisoners shall at all
times be guarded.

0 “But all is not mass exercise. There are partner
competitions such as Indian wrestling, hand wres-
tling, and elbow tug of war. Various self-testing
devices also give every young man ‘glorying in his
strength’ the opportunity to ascertain just how
good he actually is.

( C onh’rmcd on page 329)

. A Workshop for Boys

the many activities offered at Waterloo’s new

Washington Community Recreation Center
which, until Thanksgiving of last year, was an old
boarded-up school building.

THE WORKSHOP is one of the most popular of

On numerous afternoons whennthe shop is“ a
beehive of thirty-five boys and two or three girls
all in the process of creating something, with at
least eleven boys crowded four and five deep
around the sander, there might-be some leaders
who would wonder about professional techniques!
If, however, these people could pay a personal
visit to the Waterloo workshOp ; if they could see
for themselves the electric project and demonstra-
tion board worked out by the maintenance man of
the Recreation Department turned workshop in-
structor; if they would take a good look at some
of the better things produced; and, above all, if
they could see the boys and girls themselves, they
would be inclined to agree with what Angelo Patri
said back in 1933.

Said Mr. Patri: “When the machines carried the
work of home into the shops and laboratories, home ‘
Was emptied of its vitality. It 'is always so. When
an institution loses the stimulus of creative work,
it loses meaning. Unless creative work becomes
part and parcel of the life of the school, it can-
not hope to prepare children for the era of ma-
chine-made service. So I say the next generation
must be trained upon a new principle, one founded
on the creative impulse of humanity.

“. . . Most of us are ordinary peOple. No marked
gifts distinguish us from the great group of peo-
ple with whom we work and play. But there is
always something that we can enjoy more than
anything else, something that brings the light of
joy and interest in our eyes, quickens our move—
ments, illumines our spirit. Well, it is for the
ordinary person that I crave a training for leisure,
for culture, for creative expression. The genius
has the power to lift himself above the routine of
daily living. We don’t have to worry about his
leisure time. Nature takes care
of that. But the ordinary per-
son must ‘be trained so that he
develops a hobby, an avocation,
something he can turn to in his
leisure time.”

Angelo Patri would be in-
terested in Waterloo’s work-
shop.

On Monday,

Wednesday,

306

"A workshop has its greatest value at
a time like the present. and it would
be a contribution to morale and men-
tal balance it every Army and Navy
post. as well as' every school and col-
lege. provided tools and materials to
gratify the desire to work with one's
hands." — From the Director. Stu-
dent WorkshopI Dartmouth College.

Does your Recreation Department pro-
vide boys of all ages in your community
from 8 to 80—but particularly from 8 to
l2—the tun of a workshop?

If location. equipment. or leadership
is holding you back. the story of the
workshop in Waterloo. Iowa. may offer
inspiration and practical help.

and Friday afternoons the workshop is open to
fifth and sixth grade boys, and two or three girls
who refuse to be “frozen” out. There is always a
variety of activity. The machine in the corner
which is always as completely surrounded as Pop-
eye on a personal appearance tour, is the sander.
It is the one piece of power equipment which the
boys are allowed to use. It is never idle for a
moment.

“George, will you bore this for me P” a young
.worker sings out from a corner of the room.

The instructor looks up from the band saw
where he is working on a pile of embryo tommy
guns. He is a member of the National Guard and
in midwinter arranged for a special inspection of
G.I. Army equipment at the Armory. Forty boys
from the recreation center marched there in a
body one Saturday morning. The high spot of the
visit was taking a paper pattern of the latest G.I.
tommy gun.

Much of the equipment of the workshop was
hunted out and tracked down by the maintenance
man instructor and his. staff. A virtually brand-new
band saw was located at a commercial photogra—
pher’s. A $45 shaper was secured for a mere $15.
All of the benches for the workshop were built by
the maintenance department.

' The shop equipment in-
cludes: I power sander, I
twelve-inch band saw, I ten-
inch circle saw, I six-inch
joiner, I shaper. There are 6
band saws, I lathe, IO wood-
vises, 20 coping saws, and 4
benches. Soon to be added are a
drill press, jig saw and vise, a

RECREATION

A WORKSHOP FOR BOYS 307

new lathe, and portable electric drill. The cost of
the equipment to date is $1,600.

One of the most unique pieces at the workshop
is the electric demonstration board mentioned
previously. It is hung at one end of the shop, as a
blackboard would be.’ On it are worked out thirty-
six different examples of simple electrical wiring.
The board furnishes the basis for a course of six
individual projects for seventh and eighth grade
boys. The board and individual projeCts are all
the invention of the recreation leader, and the boys
are very proud of their equipment.

The shop holds interest for all age groups.
Besides the three days of woodworking for the
fifth and sixth grade boys, and the two days of
electric projects for the seventh and eighth grad—
ers, older boys and girls use the shop two eve-
ings a week. Fifth and sixth graders add up to
110. The average daily attendance has had to be
limited to twenty and thirty. Even with this re-
striction, the boys concoct ingenious methods for
getting in extra hours. To date, all working
material (wood of all kinds) has been furnished
without any charge. '

The shop is in a neighborhood of both white and
colored families and there are always three or four
colored boys in the shop. When a visitor 'asked
the recreation leader which of the woodworking
boys was inclined to turn in the best work, a
twelve-year-old redhead answered for the director.
Swinging his arm '
' around the should.-
ers of a" shyly
smiling colored
lad, the white boy
said, “Lee, here,
can sure make
swell “things, can’t
he, George P” Later
the visitor discov-
ered from the rec-
reation leader who
has the pottery
group that it is
Lee’s work which
is also outstand-
ing in that depart-
ment.

The workshOp is
remarkable for its
lack of conversa-
tion. The wood-
workers are too

SEPTEMBER 1944

interested to talk much. Boys will be boys, how-
ever, and occasionally one of the crowd loudly
threatens everyone in his corner of the room if the
saw he is using disappears while he procures some
needed tool from the other side of the room.

Anything but a down-to-earth approach gets a
cold shoulder. When one curly—head working on
a rabbit toy was asked if he ever made anything
for his little brother, another aggressive looking
curly-headed lad from the opposite work bench
boomed, “I’m his little brother.”

As Angelo Patri pointed out in speaking of
leisure: “How can we profit by the experience of
this day of trouble and emerge from a civilization
of servitude into one that sheds new light on the
meaning of life? Children must be taught to use
their leisure time aright. No human being can
remain idle for any length of time without protest.
The spirit of man must have food. That food is
found in something one likes to do. In idleness lies
danger.”

NOTE: Other of the interesting activities of the rec-
reation program in Waterloo were described in the July
1944 issue of RECREATION under the title, “Shortages No
Waterloo for Waterloo 1”

Everything from tommy guns to toys for
their younger brothers and sisters is
made by Waterloo boys in the workshop

 

ll TL’DY, PLAY, CREATE—make your leisure time
S show a profit. Fill it with activities that will
bring you happiness, health, knowledge.”

This is the invitation that the Milwaukee De-
partment of Municipal Recreation broadcasts to
Milwaukee citizens young and old, offering them a
varied and rich program of activities. From its
very beginning the Department followed the policy

308

 

that recreation is not merely something which con-
cerns children’s play' but is a matter of vital im-
portance in the life of every person from childhood
through old age. Nor does recreation consist solely
of sports, games, and physical activities. While
these are vital to an individual, and provision for
them is a large part of the responsibility of a rec-
reation department, there are many other valuable

RECREATION

 

Courtesy Annual Convention Publication 1943, Wisconsin State Federation 0f Labor

 

interests which should function in the leisure hours
of an individual and of a community.

The original law under which Milwaukee’s Rec-
reation Department was created limited the special
tax through which funds were secured to .2 mill.
In 1918 and again in 1937, the ever-growing inter-
est and need prompted citizens, through referen-
dum, to appeal for increases in the recreation tax

SEPTEMBER 1944

limitation, which was raised from .2 to .4 mill, and
from .4 to .8 mill. Ever alive to the value of play—
grounds and social centers to their families and to
the community, the labor organizations fought
valiantly for each referendum and exerted a potent

influence on the elections.
At present the Department operates sixty-nine

(Continued on page 331)
309

l-low Recreation Came to Norway, Maine

HILE Margaret Wil-
liston was a stu—
dent in Boston Uni-

versity she did her prac-
tice work in the office of
Boston Community Service. There on the library
table she picked up RECREATION Magazine and
bulletins sent by the National Recreation Associa-
tion. These periodicals became “Number One” on
her reading parade each month. Upon her gradua—
tion from Boston University, Margaret Williston
was asked by her family what her choice of a
graduation present was. She asked for and re-
ceived a membership in the National Recreation
Association, which was to bring her wherever she
was a copy of RECREATION and the NRA bul-
letins. Margaret Williston made recreation a part
of her own life and decided that no matter where
she was assigned, others, too, wduld have recrea-
tion. Margaret Williston was offered and accepted
a job in the Child Welfare Department in the
state of Maine and her assignment was Norway, a
community of about 3,600 people.

Now she had the t0wn where recreation was
needed, but she did not have all the information re—
quired to bring recreation to Norway immediately!
The state of Maine appointed her as a delegate to
the National Social Work Conference held in New
Orleans in 1942. The National Recreation Asso-
ciation had consultation service at that conference.

Margaret Williston came daily to the National '

Recreation Association desk to look over the liter-
ature and ask questions. She went back to Nor-
way, Maine, and got started! Each time a par-
ticular problem presented
itself, Margaret Williston
wrote to the National Rec—
reation Association for
counsel.

In 1943 Norway, Maine,
had a Recreation Council
and a volunteer leader, Mar-
garet Williston, who in her
own words says, “I will
settle for nothing less than
year-round recreation.” She
has the full support of the
community. There were
many important in-between

310

The story of a girl. the graduation
present she requested, a town. and
the National Recreation Association

It was far from an expensive graduation
present she asked tor—nothing more than a
membership in the National Recreation As-
sociation; but with the year's subscription
to RECREATION and the bulletins which the
membership brought her. plus. of course.
her own resourcefulness and will to serve.
a town in Maine is enjoying recreation. and

the entire State bids fair to receive divi-
dends from that $5.00 investment!

Have you ever thought what you might be
able to accomplish by a similar investment
in the National Recreation Association?

steps too numerous to
mention, but a few are
listed because they show
that it can be done.

In getting community
interest, Margaret Williston learned that the De- '

partment of Welfare was paying $1,100 rent for
the building in which she had her office. This

'building was formerly the opera house and only

two rooms were being used. She inquired of the
Girl Scout leader and the various community or-
ganizations where their meetings were held and
when she discovered that they were having dif-
ficulty in finding suitable meeting places, she told
them about the empty rooms in the opera house
and encouraged them to ask for permission to use '
these rooms. In a short time not only were the
Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts. meeting in the build—
ing, but the community orchestra and glee clubs
were holding their rehearsals there. This is really
the start of the Recreation Center.

In looking around for volunteer leadership she
discovered by talking to people in the town that
the minister in one of the churches had had train-
ing in the National Recreation Association Rural
Institute, and that he in turn could be helpful in
training other leaders.

One of the things that helped Margaret Willis—
ton most was the fact that .she could point to a
tavern on the main street in Norway which was
the only place in town that offered anything of
interest to the young people—the lights were
bright; the juke box gave forth; there was a place

to dance and boy could meet girl, not always under
the most favorable condi-

tions.

Now Margaret VVilliston’s
ambition is to tell the whole
state of Maine about the
National Recreation Asso-
ciation and about the need
for recreation in the villages.
She came to headquarters’
office to ask permission to
set up an exhibit at the
forthcoming Social Work
Conference for the state of
Maine, which will show the

(Continued on page 329)

RECREATION

In Defense of Hobbies—

Especially Stamp Collecting

HENEVER I go to a museum or exhibition of

any kind, I always come away with a feeling

of relief that I collect stamps instead of
china or stones. Imagine the difiiculty of carrying
home a package of a thousand plates of Dresden
china or of finding a place for them when you get
them there! Yet it is not unusual for me to carry
home in my coat pocket an envelope containing a
thousand stamps. One of the reasons for the
popularity of stamp collecting may be the very
ease with which stamps may be carried about and
the small space a large collection occupies. It does
not clutter up the house, and it is easier to “sneak
. in” your collection than it would be if you collected
bulky articles. That is a point to consider when
you have spent more money than you should on
some particularly choice collector’s item!

Collecting is one of the fundamental urges of
man, even though some members of your family
may regard it as a childish diversion or an indica-
tion that you are not quite bright—“a grown-up
man spending his evenings with tiny scraps of
paper!” The argument that great statesmen and
business leaders turn to collecting antiques, books,
china, coins, or stamps as a means of relaxation
falls on deaf ears.

Perhaps the answer may be found in something
a niece of mine said when she came into my study
to find me working on my stamp collection: “I
have no one to play with, but if you are playing
with your toys 1’11 bring mine along and we’ll play
together.”

That four year old came very close to the truth.
The purpose of a hobby is to give us pleasure and
relaxation. Take vacations, for instance. The con-
ventional and obvious thing to do on a vacation is
to send post cards to friends and relatives at home.
Sometimes it is best not to do the obvious and
conventional. There are many pe0ple who collect
post cards, but they are the ones with friends who
visit strange places.

A vacation is really the time to do your collect-
ing or treasure hunting, as a friend calls it. Some
people have the idea that the purpose of a vacation
is to go places and do things which they really
don’t want to do but which are expected of them.
These timid souls among collectors find it easier
to follow the crowd to a resort than to explain 'to

SEPTEMBER 1944

.-

   

Gedge H armon

By H. SANGUINETTI

friends that they get more fun out of staying
home, poking through second-hand stores or visit-
ing interesting old places in search of whatever

useless articles they like to collect! Now that it is

patriotic to stay at home, we collectors don’t have
so much alibiing to do!

There are signs, however, of a more tolerant
attitude, and the day may yet come when we c01-
lectors won’t have to sneak our latest finds into
the house to avoid the third degree as to what
we’ve been doing and how much money we spent
on “stuff that only clutters up the house.” In fact,
stamp collecting seems to have passed from the
undercover stage to respectability. Perhaps the
ease with which governments have found they can
extract revenue by issuing new postage stamps
honoring famous men or causes has something to
do with it. An organized minority of ten million
people—«the number of stamp collectors the post
office estimates for this country—can’t be laughed
off as being “nuts”! Furthermore, the Post Office
Department encourages stamp collecting since it
brings in over $1,000,000 a year from the sale of
stamps which will never do postage duty since
they’ll all be tucked away in stamp collections.

(Continued on page 328)

311

Not Too Old to Enjoy Life

or “older people,” as most

of us prefer to call them,
are not only the concern of
those working in institutions
or serving with the Depart-
ment of Public Assistance.
Leaders in recreation and edu-
cation, as well as other fields of
social endeavor, must be con-
cerned more and more. Certainly when we realize
that while the Philadelphia population increased
only one per cent in the last decade the number of
persons above sixty-five increased thirty-eight per
cent, and that seven per cent of the Philadelphia
population is over sixty-five years of age (it is
estimated that by 1980 it will be eleven per cent),
we know that the number is too large to be dis-
regarded.

Quite naturally agencies have first looked after
physical needs but have been led to believe that the
emotional life of the individual is as important as
physical comfort and security, and that the “uni-
versal wishes” for; security, recognition, response,
and new experience are present at any age.

Increasingly there is an interest in old people
as individuals, and a realization that as long as
there is life a person is a complete individual, re-
taining all his feelings and faculties to a varying
degree.

THE PROBLEMS of the aged

One writer has said that the following things
combine to make old people happy: (1) Living
arrangements; (2) good health; (3) occupation;
(4) social life; (5) acquaintance with young peo-
ple. These five factors seem to be paramount re—
gardless of whether the old person is married,
widowed, sees his children or not.

Now let’s review some general principles which
should be considered in regard to old people:

Older people must be allowed to proceed at
their own pace and with their own program, not a
program imposed on them. They look backward
instead of ahead, and it is questionable just how
much we can change that. We can make them
interested in the present and, perhaps, the immedi-
ate future.

We should not be surprised if' their first reaction
is “No” when a new and different thing is proposed.

312

By JEANNE H. BARNES

Miss Barnes. a field worker for the
Council of Social Agencies of Phila-
delphia. presented this address at a
meeting of the Council held last
February. She was formerly a member

of the staff of the National Recrea-
tion Association and worked on prob-

lems of recreation

This is the easiest reaction be-
cause it involves the least ef-
fort. It may take some time for
our suggestion to be accepted
(let alone followed), and an
older person may add his own
changes, but that in itself de—
notes interest and mental ac—
tivity. While changes are good
for variety’s sake, sudden ones,
and “surprises,” can sometimes be upsetting to-
certain old people.

Some have said the older a person gets, the
younger his interests are. Not that he wants to be
treated as a child, but the simpler and less com-
plicated things appeal.

We may expect old people to want to be alone
some of the time. This is natural because they
enjoy reviewing past years. However, the older
person needs and wants social contacts as much as
in any other period of life, but finds them more
difficult to achieve and maintain because friends
have passed on and family and young people pass
by. Unhappiness, withdrawal, neurotic symptoms
with actual physical distress, day dreaming, which
develops into suspicion, evasion of reality, and
diminishing mental capacity can often be traced to
isolation or solitary confinement. Generally speak-
ii’lg, the older women do not want to be separated
from younger ones, while this is not so vital a
point with the men.

in institutions.

We find that men are more adept at playing
games and finding things to fill their leisure
(smoking, checkers, horseshoes, watching excava-
tions, sitting around the store or square, politics).
Women have spent their young years being house-
wives and mothers, with their major handwork
sewing. If they can no longer see and have no-
opportunity to cook, they are at quite a loss. No
doubt the universal interest in hobbies and greater
scope of professional activities for women will
change this picture in another generation.

Activities should never be abruptly stopped but
should be changed to altered capacities of aging-
people. As long as the individual is alive he needs,.
in addition to food and love, the opportunity to
function and be effective. To be “needed” is what
is important!

RECREATION?

NOT TOO OLD TO ENJOY LIFE ‘ 313

Recreation in Institutions

In the suggestions which follow, we have pur-
posely by-passed the movies, entertainments, visit-
ing groups, and other program features which are
common to most institutions, and have thought in
terms of the unusual thing or the very simple ac-
tivity that should brighten long hours.

3

Surroundings. “Hominess,’ as well as comfort,
must be present in the surroundings. There should
be plenty of shade and plenty of places to sit down
comfortably. Rocking chairs, pianos, even canar-
ies, and special touches which were a part of the
furnishings in a former generation (such as gay
plates on a wall molding) all add up to this homi-
ness. Pictures of “kin folk” in individual rooms
also help.

There should also be color created by flowering
plants, books, colorful draperies, and rugs. Cer—
. tainly holiday decorations should be brought in at
the appropriate times. \Vhile old people do not
always relish drastic changes in the placement of
furnishings, holiday decorations do add variety and
offer a certain gaiety and stimulation to a place
where the “scenery” does not change.

Facilities. Facilities should include: A commu-
nity garden or individual gardens, flower or vege—
table (herb gardens are the latest “fad”) ; perhaps,
a terrarium or dish garden for those who cannot
get outside.

A “tinker shop” for men, and a small kitchen
for women to use
on occasion.

Supplies. Sup-
plies have some
“musts,” too, such
as: Radio, piano,
or even a player
piano for those
who cannot play
but like to pump
the rolls. Victro-
las have come into
their own again.
“Talking books,”
which can be bor-
rowed from libra-
ries, can be used
if a victrola is
available.

A gaily painted
book cart on which
are books, maga-

SEPTEMBER 1944

zines, and perhaps, supplies for quiet games for
those who do not leave their own rooms and who
would much rather make their own selections than
have a friend do it. ‘

Home town papers and pictorial magazines, if
possible.

In addition to the usual checkers and chess,
dominoes, lotto, parchesi, monopoly, cribbage, peg-
gity, rook, anagrams, pick~up sticks, and lexicon.
(Bringing these to the attention of the old folks
might revive interest in games that they have
almost forgotten and, therefore, have not thought
to request.)

The Program. Program hints gleaned from
everywhere include :

Celebrations for holidays.

Individual birthday remembrances of some sort,
if only a personal greeting card at the breakfast
plate (one Home has this and includes a brand-
new dollar bill). .

Some small surprises, such as tea and cookies in
the middle of the afternoon, or a special musical
program or an unexpected visitor.

A community project that not only offers some-
thing to do but can also inspire community spirit,
such as making a quilt for the Red Cross; painting
toys or making doll clothes for needy children;
helping children’s groups make their costumes;

Checker enthusiasts at the Men's Recre-
ation Club, The Lighthouse. Philadelphia

 

314 _ NOT TOO OLD TO ENJOY LIFE

compiling scrap—books for
other institutions. Agencies
like the British War Relief
offer many suggestions, many
of which do not require good
eyesight or sewing ability.

A half hour of music after
supper. This might include
singing, if it develops spon-
taneously. (Having song books easily available
aids in this.)

Particularly those entertainments in which chil—
dren perform; also those in which the old people
themselves can take part, such as group singing

and reciting scripture.
A “progressive party” to introduce the card and

table games mentioned above.

A close association and service with children’s
groups, such as the Girl Scouts. (One group plan-
ned to read aloud to the old ladies in exchange for
help with making costumes. Then the children
gave their “dress rehearsal” at the Home before
performing at their downtown rally.)

Auto rides, particularly when the fall foliage is
at its height and when the spring flowers are in
bloom, or at Christmas when the outdoor decora-
tions in the business and residential sections are
so delightful.

Book reviews (which may be simply storytell-
ing but never called such).

Exhibits borrowed from downtown stores, pub-
lic libraries, museums, or clubs for the institu-
tion’s residents to enjoy (historical relics, antiques,
dolls from various countries).

An occasional buffet supper or tea to change the
routine. (A “hike” to a near—by place with a picnic
supper is a welcome change at one institution.)

Craft classes and exhibits of work done.

_ Permission to invite visitors for tea or supper, at
least once a month.

A suggestion box in which residents can place
their suggestions for recreation ideas.

A committee on recreation made up of board
members and residents.

not be new.

Recreation “at Home”

Now for those people who live alone, or even
with families, but still feel so “alone”—what can
we plan for them? -

Surroundings. We must be just as considerate of
their surroundings when it comes to growing

things, pictures of kin folk, color, comfort, and
convenience.

Let me grow lovely. growing oldI as
many fine things do;
Laces and ivory and gold and silks need

And there is healing in old trees; old
streets a glamour hold.
Why may not I. as well as these. grow

lovely. growing old?
—Katle Wilson Baker

Supplies and Facilities. Many
of the games mentioned pre-
viously should be considered
because they call for two or
four players. Added to them
should be puzzles of the cross-
word and igsaw variety; also
many word puzzles which can
be found in Sunday papers,
magazines, and similar sources.

Radio and victrolas bring much comfort. In
fact, listening to the radio and recordings; partici-
pating in radio and magazine contests; sending
for “Mother Barber’s Scrap-book with one box
top of Tenderleaf Tea,” and reading home town
newspapers can be important parts of the solitary
person’s leisure.

Program Suggestions. These may include: Sim-
ple “out-of—the-house” excursions, particularly
trolley car rides.

Trips to the museum, public library, historical
societies, fashion shows, concerts, and cooking
demonstrations, which never lose their fascination,
regardless of age.

The special advantages of public institutions,
that is, the music room at the Public Library where
one can borrow sheet music and play it on the
pianos which are available, or. do the same with
victrola records and players.

Hobbies which include not only crafts and radio
contests but collections, many of which can be
carried on by mail; tracing genealogy; weather;
photography; and, of course, corre5pondence with
those in service. '

By all means, community service, even if they
are shut—ins; making scrap—books ; preparing
greeting cards; repairing toy's; mounting pictures;
war relief activities, which may include cutting
patterns and assembling buttons, as well as sewing.

Membership in clubs, particularly those for
older people.

Participation in book exchanges, city-wide
checker tournaments, district horseshoe matches,
and similar events.

Special Projects

Here are some special projects which have been
attempted throughout the country by institutions
for the aged, the Department of Public Assistance,
and certain neighborhood centers:

Hobby shows, or better yet, “treasure shows,”

(Continued on page 330)
RECREATION

“T rial by Youth”

AST DECEMBER our com—
munity suddenly be—
came excited by the

sensational pronouncement
in the press by a well—
known attorney that a cur-
few was the only solution '
to the problem of youth.
Letters for and against
curfew flowed in profusion
to the editors of our local papers. Allusions to
youth were made in scareheads. Overnight it

seemed as though youth had become a local and
I national menace!

Residents of the community were galvanized.
Staff discussion in our agency considered the prob—
lem in two ways. On one hand, misgivings were
expressed as to whether anything special should
be done at this time other than strengthening the
regular recreation and social program. There was
concern lest any Special action would only pro-
voke further confusion or be misrepresented as a
sign of anxiety to cover delinquent members. The
other point of view was that the agency would
have to risk such a misinter—
pretation. To do nothing would
essentially be. a denial of its
fundamental obliga—
tion to youth, as
well as its own mem—
bership and the
community.

As a result, the
agency decided to
follow through the
suggestion that a
“mock trial” be
held. Combined
thinking resulted in
the title of “Trial
by Youth” which
deliberately guard-
ed against an in-
terpretation of the
prepositions “of” or
“for.” In order to
afford a compre—
hensive analysis of ’

the problem, the  .

Courtesy York, Pa., Pennsylvania Dutch Canteen

SEPTEMBER 1944

By DAVID WEISS
Jewish Young Men's and Women'sAssociation IOWS 3 -
Rochester, New York

A community focuses interest on

its juvenile delinquency problem
through the "Mock Trialll method

Youth seems to be "on trial" in many

cities these days. But does anyone

doubt what the final verdict will be?

 

charge was framed as fol-

“ ‘John and Mary Youth’
were charged with inabil—
ity to conduct themselves
as responsible members of
the community.” From this
point on, the planning and
operating of the project
became the joint responsi3
bility of a special steering committee composed of
nine youths and eight adults. This committee had
two major responsibilities—to collect resources
and prepare publicity.

In the meantime, in the Congress and Club
meetings of the house groups and the Youth Coun—
cil with which the agency has extension contact, a
good deal of discussion was taking place about the
curfew. There was great indignation and consid—
erable fear and anxiety. There was the feeling that
perhaps the curfew was the panacea, but “not for
me”; the “other side of the tracks” was where it
was needed.

In the midst of this anxiety and feeling, reflect-
ing the attitudes in the com-
munity, the trial was announced
for a month later. (Simultan—

eously and signifi-
/ cantly the local
Chamber of Com—
merce convened a
meeting of youth
and organized them
into a Congress of
Youth on Delin-
quency, as a self—
controlling mechan—
ism.)

The response to
the trial was en—
thusiastic, especially
by those who felt in
some way maligned,
and there was eager-
ness to put it on at
once. Many of us
also felt that it had
to be staged quickly
for fear the subject

315

316

was topical and might soon be played out. How—
ever, in recognition of the fact that the trial was
essentially a youth project, a minimum of a month’s
preparation was held to. It is recognized that the
values of such an experience might have been
much greater had not the elements of time and

topical concern been present.

Organizing the Project

Two practicing attorneys volunteered to work
with the young people who came forward to play
the parts of attorneys for the defense and the
prosecution. A former City Court judge agreed to
advise his youthful counterpart. The Court Clerk
visited an actual courtroom to observe the way in
which this real functionary operated. In order to
expedite the activity of the two legal panels a
special device was used. The “witnesses,” adults
professionally concerned about youth, were asked
to prepare an outline of their testimony in advance.
This served as a basis for each panel to organize
the content for the trial.

The activity of the youth personnel who took
part in the trial was the highlight of the entire
project. The panels met regularly each week with
their adult advisers. In many cases they visited
each of the witnesses to discuss the testimony in
advance. Publications from the Children’s Bureau,
the National Recreation Association, and other
sources of information on the subject were secuied.
Two sets of alternate suggestions were prepared
at the outset as a basis for analysis of the subject.
For example, the prosecution was asked to survey
the facts of youth’s misbehavior; its failure to
share in the war effort in contrast to Allied youth;
its inattention to studies; neglect of the Church
and the home; the “good time” attitude and the
exploitation of their elders’ concentration on the
war. In short, could they prove that youth was
.shiftless and aimless and that we could afford
such a state.

The defense was asked to view the sources of
the charge. Has youth a fair chance? Have its
needs been understood and met? What effect has
the war had on the attitude of the community and
parents toward children? What actually was
youth’s contribution in the armed forces, and in—
dustry, and civilian war services?

Two young people undertook the onero'us roles
of “Mary and John Youth.” With a minimum of
.aid from the staff they prepared their defense.
'Their sincerity and simplicity impressed all who
heard them at the trial.

“TRIAL BY YOUTH”

During the month of preparation, regular pub-
licity was sent to the local press and other outlets.
A good relationship resulted with the newspapers
through personal contact. Their report of the trial
could serve as an excellent review of the proceed—
ings. For the membership and youth at large an
attractive “subpoena” was stencilled. The wit-
nesses who participated included a police safety
officer, a psychiatrist, a probation officer, the guid-
ance director of the Board of Education, a Y.M.
C.A. executive, a Presbyterian minister, the Junior
Red Cross director, a U.S.E.S. worker, and a

family case worker. ,
Because of limitation of time it was decided that

the jury would be drawn from the audience, ex-
cept that various youth agencies and groups were
asked to recommend in advance the names of
young pe0ple who would be interested. Further—
more, several hundred ballots were prepared to
permit audience participation in the form of voting
on the verdict and making specific recommenda-

tions.

The trial took place on February 22nd during
a bitter sleet storm. Yet over 400 people attended,
mostly adolescents who were members of house
clubs, Youth Council, and the Youth Congress. '

Let us quote in part from the newspaper writeup:

“John and Mary Youth were freed last night from
charges of ‘inability to conduct themselves as respon-
sible members of society.’

“They were acquitted by a jury of their peers that
weighed the evidence of their elders in a ‘court’ ses-
sion that filled the 500 seats in the J.Y.M.-W.A.
auditorium. The trial was Sponsored by the JY youth
activities committee.

“The trial developed with singular unanimity be-
tween the witnesses for the defense and for the prose-
cution, whose testimony hit one ever-recurring note:
That youths are the reflection of the adults.

,“Grown-ups who chisel on ration coupons, live by
‘topsy turvy’ social standards, precipitate a world
chaos and generally set bad examples should, as an
attorney for the defense contended in summation, be
‘surprised’ at the ability youth has shown to cope with

the strains of wartime.
“Ten attorneys, all youths, comprised the eloquent

legal array before the bench of youthful ‘Judge’
James Raz, while those called to the witness stand
represented social, educational, enforcement, religious
and employment agencies.”

The testimony turned out to be somewhat repeti-
tive. However, only one case of stage fright oc—
curred. Most of the youngsters had only one
“dress rehearsal” before the trial was held for the
purpose of orienting themselves to the courtroom
procedure. Discussion at the trial, therefore, was
extemporaneous and many instances of spontan-

RECREATION

“TRIAL BY YOUTH” 317

eous import occurred. A great deal of poise and
quick thinking was shown by the youngsters
throughout in the way they conducted themselves.

Three hundred ballots were cast by the audi—
ence. A later analysis of the votes showed 11.6
per cent were for the verdict of guilty; 73.4 per
cent non-guilty; 12.9 per cent remained doubtful.
Fewer votes were cast on the question of restric—
tions; 8.9 per cent were for some restriction; 33.2
per cent dissented.

The verdict of the jury, prepared in advance,
turned out to be anti-climactic. It was long and ex-
horatory before declaring Mary and John Youth
not guilty. Reaction to the trial varied: Some felt
it was a “fraud,” a put—up job, as if they had felt
so keenly about the issues that nothing short of a
definitive judgment would suffice. Others felt it
was so impressive that regular trials should be
‘ held frequently and parents be given their day in
court. _

The 300 ballots, while no conclusive proof of
community or even youth sentiment, still showed
an index of the true feelings that existed among
them. Suggestions involving community action for
policing of taverns, increased recreation facilities,
parent education, and similar matters were also
voiced.

It is interesting to note these reactions. Many
of them show the lines of action our and other
agency programs take. Above all, the audience
reaction both from the attendance and talk which
followed justified the effort put into this kind of
project.

By this writing, the jury of young people has
had several meetings to review and specify the
recommendations in their verdict. The wish to do
something more than“ merely render a verdict re-
sulted in their presentation of a recreational plan
to the newspapers. Beyond that, each member of
the jury decided to go on with his regular groups
and through them to support youth activities. It is
interesting that the Youth Congress on Delin-
quency particularly felt enheartened by the trial
and the testimony.

A follow-up meeting of the trial personnel was
held. There was no attempt to “sell” them any
mission for special activities of this sort. The
young people themselves evinced mixed interest
about forming into a special group. They decided
to “mull” it over individually. Already several
have decided that there would be a special reason
for organizing into a group for further study and
action on their problems.

SEPTEMBER 1944

Conclusion

The “Trial by Youth” as a technique or special
youth project justifies itself only as it is related
to the regular program of the agency, or as it may
relate to the launching of new or special programs.
As an end in itself it is effective only in so far as
the individuals concerned are involved in its plan—
ning and achievement.

From the agency point of view, it serves to
bring to the attention of its membership and the
wider community its willingness to face and con-
tribute to acute problems young people have. In
this way the agency fulfills its purpose and obli—
gation as a youth—serving agency.

On these counts, the agency accomplished its
major aims, providing a special method to throw
light on a current and crucial issue, and to empha—
size its regular activities for young people. It
acknowledged. that the “Trial” was not a charge
against any person, family or organization. The
charge was against an attitude in youth and adults
in the community.

The agency hopes and believes that the trial
helped the pe0ple of its city to understand the vital
needs and interests of its youth, and to be ready to
give support to constructive programs on their

behalf.

This is what a police surgeon, Dr. Theron W.
Kilmer, had to say about hobbies at the annual
convention of the New York State Association of
Chiefs of Police (July 1944) :

“The brain must have a diversity of thought or
else it will become sluggish. The human system
must of necessity have an outlet for the strenuous
work of the average citizen. Next to the possession
of a birth certificate the most essential asset to hap—
piness and health is some kind of hobby.

“Nerve tire is manifested in a great variety of
ways. You become nervous and ill—tempered. You
go from one thing to another. You do not sleep
well, and your appetite fails. These are all red Hags
of nerve tire. You must have some other outlet for
your energy. Take up some kind of hobby—collect-
ing stamps, leaves, books. Take up photography,
anything that will stir your mental effort into an-
other channel than the one that is now overworked.

“A great deal is said nowadays about juvenile
delinquency. I have never seen a juvenile delin—
quent who had a hobby or whose parents had a
hobby. Get children interested in something and
they will not go wrong.”

Police Captain a Friend of Youth

ITHOUT an appropriation,
W without a budget, and
without paid leadership,
Somers Point, New Jersey, has
a youth program which larger
places might well envy. But
Somers Point has Capt. Wil—
liam Morrow of its police de-
partment and a group of men
who have associated themselves with him. And it
has proven that in towns with such “spark plugs”
appropriations and budgets are incidental.
Last fall the only movie in Somers Point closed.
With 281 of the town’s young men in the service
and many of its older people driving four hours a

day to and from work in a Camden shipyard, there a

weren’t many left to patronize it. But the town
still had youth up to eighteen years of age with
little to do.

Capt. Morrow, with five daughters and a boy of
his own, went to the School Board and asked use

of an unused manual training room. On his second '

appearance, he was successful. A boys’ club was
organized with age limits of IO to 18 years. A
local citizen came forward with an unsolicited c011—
tribution of $50, and a punching bag, games, bas-
ketball, and gymnasium equipment were purchased.
Capt. Morrow built a ping—pong table. The Somers
Point library stocked some books boys want -———
books on how to box, wrestle, play table tennis and
basketball. That unused schoolroom was humming
With activity.
M e m b e r s h i p
climbed until sev-
enty—three boys
were members, in-
cluding all of the
twenty-four high
school boys in
town.

The room is in
use every night
except Saturday
and Sunday with
a volunteer adult
always in attend—
ance. The club has
fourteen adult
honorary members

318

There are only about 2.000 people in
Somers Point' New Jersey, but among
them is a police officer with imagina-
tion and a real interest in youth.
and baclc of him a group of individ-
uals willing to give their time and
money in support of a program of rec-
reation tor the townfs young people.

——-persons who assist in super-
vision or who have made dona-
tions. Incidentally, total dona—
tions have now exceeded $350
and none has been solicited.

In addition; the School
Board has granted use of the
gymnasium for at least two
nights a week. A boys’ basket-
ball game is held'one night a week, a girls’ game
another night. Numerous teams of both boys and
girls have been organized so that all who desire
have a chance to play. Boys and their parents turn
out by the score to root for the girls and vice
versa. The senior boys’ and girls’ teams are en-
rolled in a league playing out—of-town games. Bas—
ketball has been the principal winter activity. Plans
provide for making baseball and swimming meets
leading summer sports.

Dances are held frequently after the basketball
games with music provided by a juke box. loaned
by a juke box vendor.

“Schools are the logical place for recreation cen—
ters,” Mayor Fred Chapman asserts. “They have
excellent plants which must be heated and are
normally in use only about five hours out of the
twenty—four.” (Additional cost to the School

(Continued on page 335)

Always tunI horseshoe pitching becomes an
exciting sport when the decision is close!

 

Courtesy Chester, Pa., Recreation Board

RECREATION

The Community Use of Schools

T THE MOMENT we are
more than ever con-
scious of the place of

recreation. It can be and is
a powerful morale builder
both for civilians and men
and women in the armed
forces. Now more than ever »-
American communities des-
perately need the unifying
influences of recreative ac-
tivity. It strikes me that one
of the historic functions of
‘ recreation is this very
strengthening of the bonds
of community life. We have
long recognized this in the schools by introducing
a wide offering of extracurriculum activities. That
has built morale and esprit de corps. It has built
loyalty to the school and a community-mindedness.

The schools have several responsibilities in rela-
tion to recreation. Although the statement is
contrary to the practice of many, their obligation
and opportunity do not end. with the children who
are actually enrolled in the schools. They have an
obligation to these children long after they have
graduated. The education of today should antici—
pate the needs of those graduates when they go to
work, get married, have children, and move on
into the middle and later years of life.

Weaver Pangburn, field representative of the
National Recreation Association, cites six obliga—
tions of the schools with which I agree:

He says first that it is fair to hold the schools
responsible for laying a foundation for recreation
by teaching activities in physical education that
can be enjoyed beyond the years of the strenuous
“big muscle” sports. In other words, they must
teach such things as tennis, badminton, folk danc-
ing, swimming, and shufHeboard, in addition to
basketball and football.

Second, the curriculum of teacher training insti-
tutions should include subjects having to do with
leisure, recreation, music, drama, arts, crafts, and
nature, and such courses should be motivated by
the community approach.

Third, the texts and curricula of the schools
should reflect the interests of community life. This

SEPTEMBER 1944

By IRVIN ROSA

Superintendent of Schools
Davenport. Iowa

In April I944. the twenty-first annual Mid- -
west District Conference of Public Recrea-
tion Executives was held in Davenport. Iowa.
under the auspices of the National Recrea-
tion Association in cooperation with the
Davenport Board of Park Commissioners.
At the meeting Mr. Rosa discussed recrea-
tion from the point of view of the superin-
tendent of schools in his relation to the
community recreation program. What he
had to say will interest all recreation execu-
tives and laymen promoting the movement.

should be true of mathema—
tics, reading, English, as
well as other subjects.

Fourth, junior and senior
high school courses should
introduce the students spe-
cifically to community recre-
ation and should inspire
them to take a positive
action and attitude toward
it as participants and as
citizens.

Fifth, school'prOperty
should be designed and built
with a view to much use
after school hours as a part
of the community recreation system. There should
be three to five acres of outdoor recreation space
adjacent to every elementary school and a mini-
mum of ten to twenty acres at junior and senior
high schools. All school buildings should have
gymnasiums or large recreation rooms, auditori-
ums, kitchens, and miscellaneous other rooms
suited to clubs, crafts, and sewing, so that the
school may serve as a community center. Gym-
nasiums and auditoriums should be located on the
ground floor and made accessible to the general
public. It should be possible to shut them off
from the classrooms and heat them separately.

Sixth, the board of education should be repre-
sented on the official commission or the commu-
nity committee responsible for the community
recreation program. The schools have a big in-
terest in the success of this program which should
build on and not in any way destroy the effects of
good leisure time training in the schools. This is
not to say that the schools should be loaded with
responsibility for the recreation program, unless
there is no prospect that the work can be done well
under other public auspices.

In Rochester, Minnesota, we faced a situation
where there was much costly duplication. The
Park Board and the Board of Education each
sponsored its own recreation program in the sum-
mer and winter. Friction and a great deal of un-
necessary cost were the result. A group of men
got together, including three board members from
the schools, three from parks, the superintendent

319

320 THE COMMUNITY USE OF SCHOOLS

of parks, and the superintendent of schools ex-
oflicio, and employed a director of recreation.
They also employed throughout the year, a paid
staff of fifteen or twenty people, chiefly school
people. This arrangement worked out exceed-
ingly well.

If the school facilities are to be widely used by
recreation agencies, what are the obligations of
these agencies?

I. We have a right to expect trained and pro-
fessional leadership. These people must know
young people and adults, know how to work with
them, and how to’get effective results. They must
offer a program that gears with, instead of against,
the school program. The schools must feel that it
is a program touching all areas and levels of com-
munity life, that it is well planned and adequately
executed.

2. We have a right to expect intelligent use of
school property. Boards of education are right-
fully zealous in their desire to protect the public
property entrusted to them. When use of this
property is granted for any purpose they have a
right to expect that care will be exercised in its
use and that every opportunity will be taken to
utilize the channels of recreation in teaching citi—
zenship in the care of public property.

3. We have right to expect that supervisors
shall be on the job. They shall be on the job
before the first youngster or adult arrives, and
they shall be the last one out of the building
except the custodian.

4. We have a right to expect that the recrea-
tion program shall consist of more than a little
physical activity. It should include opportunity
for dramatics, music, the arts and crafts, hobbies
of various sorts.

5. In these days of overtime for custodians, we
have a right to expect the
wise use of facilities both

"A space for adults set aside in a school

thinking person will deny that there is need in
every community for a well-rounded, well-corre-
lated, and well-integrated program of health, rec-
reation, physical education, and safety. But we
cannot justify from the standpoint of finance, or
from the point of view of maximum return in
service per tax dollar spent, duplication, isolation,
friction, or controversy among those responsible
for these important functions. These activities
must be organized in a manner that is adminis-
tratively sound. Maximum service, economy of
operation, and centralization of responsibility are
imperative. Petty jealousies and desire for con-
trol must be subordinated to service and efficiency.

Where recreation for the out-of—school hours of
youth and for adults is centered in an agency
outside the school, both it and the school must
work together in the development of a closely
knit program. The outside agency must analyze
closely the recreative activity of the school and
gear its own offering accordingly. The school must
take into account the need for close cooperation
with the recreation leaders.

Finally, there is need for careful community
planning both for education and recreation. Future
city growth should be plotted carefully with the
needs for those areas closely in mind. There must
be dynamic leadership by leaders of education and
recreation. They must be men and women whose
voice is heard and listened to, who have the con-
fidence of their communities, who don’t make too
many mistakes, and whose judgments are trusted.
There is a tremendous reSponsibility and task. It
is no job for weaklings. Unless I miss my guess,
the democratic public is less and less content with
those who seek security in public office, and more
and more desirous of courageous leadership.

No greater challenge ever existed than will
presently confront all social
agencies. The degree to

from the standpoint of time
and function.

6. We might as well rec-
ognize that all public ser-
vices, including the schools
and other recreation agen-
cies, will face presently a
crucial problem in finance.
The natural and inevitable
reaction to great war spend-
ing will be a closer scrutiny
of the local tax dollar and
how it is spent. No right

for social intercourse. lounging and smoking
couldI through its informality, appeal to
adult groups. . . . In fact. such spaces tend
to break down the formal disciplinary and
authoritarian atmosphere of the school.
making for greater cooperative spirit and
resulting in really significant contributions
to democratic, happy living. This is a desir-
able outcome of any educational program.

"If school plants are not designed on the
basis of this larger concept of education,
e5pecially in the adult fieldI it is quite clear
that other facilities outside of the school
will be required.”—Engelhardt and Engel~
bard t in Planning the Community School.

which they will be tolerated,
and encouraged, and pro—
moted will depend in large
part on the nature of their
major contribution to social
welfare. That will be the
supreme test in the minds
of the people. No nation
physically weak and tired, or
mentally tired and neurotic,
can long survive. We need
physical and emotional as

(Continued on page 329)
RECREATION

lt's Being Done insNalzure Recreation

Cap'n Bill's'Column of Nature-Grams

ARI/ER, George Washington. “I Knew“
Carver,” by G. Lake Imes. Twenty-four _

page pamphlet. Twenty-five cents each. Good
“7 ill, Inc., 1940 Druid Hill Avenue, Baltimore 17,
Maryland. Born of slave parents, Dr. Carver pro-
duced 325 products from the peanut, and 108 from
the sweet potato. More than seventy schools and
societies have been named in his honor.

Conservation. A postwar program. “An all-out
conservation program would offer greater enjoy-
ment of life through increased recreational facili-

ties. Most of us like and enjoy the out-of-doors.
‘ We like to see things grow. We like to hunt and
fish. A program which would conserve our soil,
water and forests would also have a highly bene-
ficial effect on wildlife. . . . Such planning takes
time. Surveys must be made first, and technicians
require time to prepare plans for Congressional
consideration.” From an address by Claude R.
\Vickard, Secretary of Agriculture, before the
Annual North American W'ildlife Conference at
Chicago, April 25, 1944.

Danville’s N atnre Program is infectious. Since
june 1943 the Recreation Commission of Dan—
ville, Virginia, has conducted a very active nature
program. In the summer of 1943 when the hikes,
field trips, bird walks and other activities were
started, it was found that about ninety per cent
of the children had never been in a woodland.
Over 6,000 youngsters and adults in this commu-
nity of 22,000 people attended the nature-hikes
during the summer and fall. When spring came,
600 took part in the bird house and nature exhibit
contest.

The Farmer’s Year. “Spring on the Farm,”
fifteen minutes; “Summer on the Farm,” thirteen
minutes; “The Crown of the
Year,” ten minutes'; “Winter
on the Farm,” sixteen minutes.
Illustrating work of British
farmers. All 16 mm. sound
films; nominal service fees.
Apply College Film Center, 84
E. Randolph Street, Chicago.

Gardening. “10,000 Garden
Questions Answered by Fifteen

SEPTEMBER 1944

Experts,” F. F. Rockwell, editor. Doubleday,
Doran & Co., New York. 1467 pp., illus. $3.95.

“Minerals: Their Identification, Uses, and How
to Collect Them,” by Herbert S. Zim and Eliza-
beth K. Cooper. Harcourt Brace & Co., Inc., New
York. 368 pp., illus. $3.

Nature Training School, to train boys and girls
from nine to sixteen for leadership in the field of
nature education, under the auspices of the Wor-
cester, Massachusetts, “Museum of Natural His—
tory, began its fourth season on June 26, 1944.
Eight members of last year's school acted as junior
instructors in various clubs and six others served.
as junior guides at the Museum.

Roosevelt Field C lab is a nature club for juniors
sponsored by the Buffalo, New York, Museum of
Science. Organized in 1920 with Professor Wil-
liam P. Alexander as field leader, it now has over
3,000 members. It would be interesting to know
how many former members have a nature hobby.

Science. “To the fiourishing of science, that
science does not segregate itself from the people
. . . but is ready to serve the people and to trans-
mit to the people all the conquests of science;
science which serves the people, not under com-
pulsion but voluntarily, willingly.” A famous toast
made by Premier Stalim The interpretation of
science to the general public is a privilege of rec—
reation leaders through natural history museums;
zoological and botanical gardens, parks, aquaria,
planetaria and other media of nature recreation.

Science Booklets for high school age are avail-
able through School Service, Westinghouse Elec-
tric and Manufacturing Co., 306 Fourth Avenue,
P. 0. box 1017, Pittsburgh 30, Pennsylvania.
Generously illustrated. Indicate why you want

these aids . . . for example, use
in a science club.

"American children know a lot about
nature—a knowledge compounded of
city-bred grass and trees and crea-
tures that thrive on cement sidewalks.
sometimes picked up on a home farm
or a summer. camp. It is astonishing
how much valuable information I am
indebted to American boys for."—

Sigrid Undset in The New York
Times Magazine, May 28. I944.

Sycamore S tnmp, largest in
the world, 56 feet in circum-
ference, is located in High-
land Park, Kokomo, Indiana.
On April 26, 1944, a group of
children had the 01d stump
“talk” over the radio. The tree

(Continued on page 335)
321

WORLD

CITIZENS of St. Paul,
Minnesota, enthusias—
tically praised the re-
sults of the 1943 Halloween celebrations sponsored
by the Department of Parks, Playgrounds and
Public Buildings in cooperation with Legion posts.
The destruction of, property during the evening
was very minor.

The programs provided at the neighborhood
parties held—and there were 122 of them—in-
cluded costume parties, bonfires, movies, dancing
for adults and teen-agers, races, games, singing,
and similar activities. It was estimated that over
I0,000 boys, girls, and adults enjoyed the parties.

Halloween in St. Paul

THE BRITISH Minis-

. ASleep aththe .PltCh try of Town and Coun-

try Planning chose -

Milton Abbas, in Dorset, as a village model for
postwar reconstruction. In Milton Abbas, the
church faces the alms-

house at the center of

the hamlet, the vicarage \
faces the brewery at one - ,.
end, the school opposes
the hospital at the other ;
all snugly lined on a
sloping road in a wooded
cleft.

The suggestion stirred ,4
talk. Last week the talk
produced an added list
of essentials for the vil-
lages of postwar Bri-
tain:

Village green con-
taining a cricket pitch
with trees for the faith-
ful to doze under dur-
ing cricket matches.

Reading room with a
table for snooker, to be
played “on a cloth un-
true with a twisted cue
and elliptical billiard
balls.”

Indoor Gauping Place,
preferably a smithy or
a cobbler’s shop, for

322

A New Course in Arts

  

’1'

AT PLAY

lengthy conversations and lengthier silences.

Outdoor Gauping Place, preferably a town

pump, where villagers can see what goes on at
home while hearing, from fellow gossips, what
goes on elsewhere.——From Time, January 3, 1944.

Published by permission.

THE Los Angeles,
California, Depart—
ment of Playground
and Recreation an-
nounces a new series of handcraft classes at the
Barnsdall Playground arts and crafts center de-
signed to provide instructors to teach arts and
crafts in hospitals. Men and women who want to
learn the use of practical arts and crafts in the re-
habilitation of war veterans may take the courses
free, paying only a nominal fee for the use of

and Crafts

tools and equipment. The subjects taught include

pottery, ewelry, leather tooling, wood carving and

woodcraft, hand and

' foot loom weaving, and
' block printing.

In addition to the reg~
ularly scheduled classes,
the arts and crafts cen-
ter will be open for in-
dividual work, and tools,
and equipment may be
used whenever the di-
rector is on duty.

I
4

More Parks for Dallas,
Texas

    

THE acquisition of forty
more parks, the estab-
lishment of a recrea-
tion area within a half
mile of every residence,
and the development of
a scenic green belt
around the city has been

 
 

(

&

   
  
 
 

   
     

J recommended to city

9‘. officials of Dallas, Texas,

0.. in a master plan report

. . 9 on parks and schools
00

 
   

' filed by Harland Bar-

Gedge Harmon

RECREATION

Backbone . . .
not Wishbone!

If the Pilgrims and their loyal women
folk had had wabbly wishbones in place
of their sturdy backbones; if the back-
bones of the patriots at Valley Forge
had been Wishy-washyuAmerica, land
of the free today, could have ended in
wishful thinking.

But the men who discovered, dreamed,
worked and fought to build our great
democracy, put their own steely courage
into the backbone of this nation. It is
backbone that shows whenever the chips
are down.

You see it in our modern industrial
marvels that began in a little iron-foun-
der’s shop less than two centuries ago.

YOu see it in our scientific miracles
-—in our agricultural achievements—
and in our mighty war effort, today.

Have you considered that the main-
tenance of America’s superb backbone
lies in our matchless youth power? It
does.

Out there on the playfields of our
great democratic nation, Where our
youth—our potential manpower—fight
to the last ditch in friendly fierceness,

SEPTEMBER 1944

 

for a coveted goal—in vigorous, man-
to-man, competitive sports—the back-
bone of Our nation is renewed and
stiffened.

On these battle fields of competitive
play our boys and girls, too, learn ini-
tiative, courage, determination, fighting
spirit, will-to-Win despite all odds, tem-
pered with fair play.

And on these fields is inculcated into
their minds and hearts an unrealized
appreciation of what it means to live
in a free America. Try to take this
freedom of theirs away from them-——-
this personal privilege to think and
dream and do in freedom—to be one-
self—to fight for a goal and win it—
and that realization will become a living
Heme. And in this fact is our greatest

  

guarantee that America will continue to

be the land of the free.

Wilson Sporting Goods Co.
and Wilson Athletic Goods Mfg. Co., Inc.
Chicago, New York and other leading cities

 

Wilson Athletic Good:
Mfg. Co., I nc.
C hicogo Plant

 

323

324 WORLD AT PLA Y

With the
A R M Y

N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every fighting
front; in every branch of the service.

The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous Struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion.

.E... DIAMOND CALK

. ,3 ,
 HORSESHOE co.

46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

tholomew and Herbert Hare. A feature of the
plan is the recommendation that large parks be
developed in four areas around Dallas. These
parks, to be created where there are none now,
are to be developed with picnic units and other
recreation facilities. ‘Many would be located so the
land could be used for school sites as well as rec-
reation areas. More widespread use of school

buildings for community centers will be part of
the program.

Janitors Like It Too l—Near the end of a recre-
ation leaders’ institute on social recreation held in
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, the janitor who stayed
every night and worked late to keep the room in
order was asked if he would be glad when the last
day arrived. He replied: “No, Miss, this is just
what we’ve needed for a long time. I wish it
i would last two weeks. They all have a good time.”

Loan Collections of Art—An interesting ac—
tivity of the University of Iowa Union is its loan
collection of fine reproductions. Any student or
professor in the University or any citizen in the
town may borrow a picture to try out in his room
or use in his home on the payment of one dollar

per semester. There has been such a demand for
the loan of these reproductions that it has been
impossible to meet it. Servicemen in training at
the University have greatly appreciated this
privilege.

Farmers Use" School Facilities—The rural
Central School at Wallkill, New York, has placed
its shop facilities at the disposal of farmers in that
area every Monday and Wednesday night at 7 :30.
The farmers have every opportunity to use the
shops to repair and construct farm machinery.
This gives opportunity for farmers to improve
their equipment and to ease the burden of war-
time restrictions on new equipment. The teacher
of shop and vocational agriculture is present at all
sessions to help the farmers.

Father-Son Activities Sponsored-#In co-
Operation with the school authorities, Salt Lake
City, Utah, opened six centers in junior high
schools for father and son activities. School shops
and gymnasiums were made available for craft and
physical programs. Plans are also under way to
provide sewing, cooking and recreation activities
for mothers and daughters.

A Contest for Victory Gardeners—To en-
courage victory gardeners in their efforts to pro-
duce vitally needed food for civilian and war uses,
the National Victory Garden Institute, 598 Madi-
son Avenue, New York 22, is sponsoring a “Green
Thumb” contest for both young people and adults.
In the adult division of the contest a $1,000 War
Bond is offered to the national winner. There will
be state contests with a special trophy award for
the prize winner in each state participating. In the
children’s 3-V “Green Thumb” contest, stressing
the importance of vegetables for vitamins and
vitality, a $500 War Bond will be awarded the
national winners in both the elementary and high
school divisions.

Contestants will be required to enter a com-
pleted Green Thumb Record Book with the ap—
propriate victory garden-chairman or local spon-
sors not later than October I, 1944. This record
book, which is available to all victory gardeners
entering the contest, provides a means of keeping
a record of what, when, and how much is planted
and harvested. The contest will take into consid-
eration neatness and originality, planting arrange-
ment, choice of crops and average yields, quantity
and quality, and use made of the crops.

RECREATION

 

Here’s why most Voit

synthetic-rubber-covered athletic equipment

is going to our fighting fronts!

Watch for an early announcement
about the famous Voit PG series
— inflated Playground Balls — soon
ready, made of synthetic rubber.

BUY WAR BONDS
REGULARLY

SEPTEMBER 1944

 

SERVICE SURFACE...

Our fighting men have to get their fun where they find it!
You’ ll find them playing ball on rugged playing fields carved
out of iungles, on rough, sandy beaches, on Central Pacific
sharp coral atolls—on surfaces that quickly chew up athletic
ball covers. Voit Synthetic:Rubber-Covered Athletic Equipment
outwears other equipment on these rough surfaces.

In the extremely humid South Pacific iungles, where the annual
average rainfall is 120 inches, the steaming dampness pene-
trates everywhere. Fungus growth and mildew attack everything
within a few days.’Even here, Voit Synthetic-Rubber-Covered
Athletic Equipment does not deteriorate—it resists the ravages
of high humidity, fungus, and mildew.

In many places where our men are fighting, it's hot — as hot as
140° in some spots. Voit Synthetic-Rubber-Covered Athletic
Equipment resists this intense heat which dries out other balls.

Thus climatic and surface conditions that "play havoc”
with ordinary equipment simply mean “play ball” for
Voit Synthetic-Rubber-Covered Athletic Equjpment. ln_this
way, Voit helps make morale-building athletic programs
possible for our fighting men all over the world. That's
why they’re getting the big bulk of Voit output—why
there's only a limited supply of Voit Basketballs, Footballs,
Soccer Balls, Volley Balls, Soft Balls, Water Polo Balls,
and Home Plates available.for essential civilian users.

Write for illustrated price list today.

©0 ? SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED
A THLETIC EQUIPMENT

Mfgd. by W. .I. Voit Rubber Corp.,
I600 E. 25th St., Los Angeles ll, Calif.

Chicago Branchmlao Na. Wacker Drive- Zone 6

 

325

326 WATER SPORTS IN GEORGIA

   

Sorry, the National gym suits are
a very scarce article right now.
The supply of suitable material
has been cut so drastically that
production is impossible.

The moment fabrics of a quality
to meet our rigid require-
ments are again available
we shall be happy to sup-
ply you with those long-
wearing, smartly- styled
and expertly-designed
suits that have made
National a favorite the
country over.

N A T | O N A L
Sports Equipment Company

it 365-375 Marquette Fond du Lac. Wis.

 

 

Sunday Evening Recreation in Lancaster-—~
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, moved a step nearer to
helping its youth "find creative opportunities when
fifteen pastors met at the Co-Ed Club with adult
recreation and youth leaders of the city and repre-
sentatives of the young people themselves. At the
meeting plans were approved for an experimental
series of five Sunday evening recreation and fel—
lowship programs during July. The plans called
for a special committee, including pastors, young
people and adult youth leaders, to arrange for each
Sunday evening. A parish hall was offered by one
of the ministers but general opinion favored out-
door recreation, perhaps in one of the city’s parks.

Florham Park Opens a Playground —-—— On
June 28, 1944, Florham Park, a small community
in New Jersey, opened its first playground under
the leadership of a director, a paid assistant, and
volunteer leaders. To raise money for the sum-
mer’s activities a community festival was held at
which about $400 was cleared. A 25 cent ticket
entitled the visitor to a frankfurter, baked beans,
coleslaw, potato salad, and coffee. Additional
frankfurters and coffee, soft drinks, cake and ice

 
 
 
   
  
   
 

Water Sports in Georgia

COVERING AN AREA of eighty-six acres inside the
city limits of Augusta, Georgia is city-owned
Julian Smith Lake,.which the Recreation Com—
mission is developing for swimming, boating and
other water activities. Previously the lake had been
used for the special programs of a boating club
organized by local citizens.

The city Recreation Department is now plan-
ning to promote various types of activities on this
lake. They are planning to purchase canoes, boats,
and kayaks, which will be rented to the citizens of
Augusta at a nominal charge. The program will
center around special contests and boat races with
motor boats which are privately owned by citi-
zens living around the lake. The Army has con-'
sented to put on demonstrations of “amphibious”
landing craft and other types of water equipment
used by the Army.

Plans for developing this lake area will include
a boat house, where citizens owning private boats
can store their equipment for a nominal charge.
The city will purchase various equipment, offering
the people of the community an opportunity to
take part in a boating program that the Recreation
Commission feels is very important in a well-
rounded recreation program. Plans are also being
made to organize and promote various clubs for
young boys and girls who will be taught how to

row and handle boats.

In speaking of the program, Mr. Oka T. Hester,
director of recreation, said this, “We hope to create
interest in the older group so that they will help
us in our promotion of boating for young boys and
girls. So far, the older group has shown an interest
to the extent of seventy-five members who are in-
terested'in organizing this club for the lake. We
feel that boating is a part of the recreation program
and we are doing all in our power to promote this
activity in our program.”

RECREATION will be interested in hearing what
other cities are planning in the field of water
sports. W'rite us about your city!

cream were sold. All the food, with the exception
of the frankfurters, ice cream and soft drinks, was
donated. Games were played, and pony rides were
enjoyed by the children. Between 450 and 500
people attended the festival which was held on the
school grounds.

RECREATION

 

AIRPORTS AS RECREATION AREAS 327

Airports as Recreation Areas

HE AIRPORT is a natural attraction and center

of interest. Airports will not only attract air
trailic in increasing volume, but they will act as a
magnet for growing numbers of sightseers as com-
prehensive planning and well designed buildings
in a suitably landscaped setting make the airport
an important local attraction. Airport marginal
areas and airport station grounds will be developed
for recreational purposes. If the urban planner
does his job well, airports will become increasingly
desirable places near which to.live, and new com-
munities will undoubtedly grow up around some
of our air centers. The type of recreation offered
will depend, among other factors, on climate; type

of airport—whether for scheduled operation, in-

dustrial use, or private flying; and the individual

needs and preferences of any given community.

Types of recreation areas suitable for airports
may include parks, playgrounds, football and base-
ball lields, tennis courts, swimming pools, and
fields for flying powered-model airplanes. Recrea-
tion areas where relative quiet is desirable will be
spaced in those sectors of the marginal areas be-
tween the runway approaches where trees and
structures could be placed which would fall within
a glide-path angle of 7 to I as measured from the
edge of the landing area. And, incidentally, parks
and forest land on the marginal areas of some of
our civil airports would be useful in affording con—
cealment to the military planes operating off these
airports in times of national emergency.

Recreation areas can also be developed and laid
out in such a way as to bring in the auxiliary
revenue to help balance airport-budgets until vol-
ume of plane traffic is alone sufficient to do so.
La Guardia Field, for example, in its hrst year of
operation took in $122,000 worth of dimes from
turnstiles installed on the observation terrace which
covers its 1,400-foot plane loading platform. Com-
prehensive and rational planning and efEcient man-
agement can make the airport, I believe, into a
self-supporting Showplace of the community.

The creation of a suitable setting for the modern
airport affords urban planners almost limitless pos-
sibilitie_s.-—~—From “Air Traffic and Airports in Re-

lation to Urban Planning” by William A. M.
Burden. The American C ity, December 1943.

SEPTEMBER 1944

 

THIS is just one of many letters we receive every

day telling us the important part our patented,
portable Two-Way Bowling Alley is playing in Rec-
reational Programs all over the United States as well
as abroad. .

Write for our portfolio containing letters of com-
mendation and complete illustrated literature telling
all about this new way of bowling. Fill in the coupon
and mail immediately! No obligation!

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
||4 East 32nd Street. New York l6

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send as additional

information and literature describing alley.

Name ....................................................  .................... ..

Addres: ...................................................................... ..
City .................................  ...... .. State ..................... ..

TWO-WAY

BOWLING CORPORATION

0 Telephone: LExing’ron 2-8828 0

I I4 EAST 32nd STREET
NEW YORK I6. N. Y.

 

 

 

328 IN DEFENSE OF HOBBIES

       

, ‘ uwrwmm

< It
I
u l. 
m9

- q u
ax I wa-
“my.

AS'

  

50 '

ready to use

_, Creative Art Crafts No. 1

by Pedro deLemos

Art ideas illustrated in detail——many shown step-
by-step——78 illustrated pages-H5 to 10 art ideas on
each page.

3 Big Sections: PAPERCRAFTS, 27 articles, excellent
novelties—TOYCRAFT, 115 animal toys, 82 dolls, 10
boats and carts—RELIEFCRAFT, using wood, leather,
linoleum, metal, plastics, gesso. . . . You use inex-
pensive and even cast-off material for projects—
special recipes tell how to make and use decorating
materials.

88 large pages-—78 fully illustrated
8 pages in full colors, Only $3.75.

Published by the SCHOOL ARTS MAGAZINE.
The most widely used Arts and Crafts
Magazine in the Schools . . . $4.00 a year.

MAIL THIS ORDER COUPON

SCHOOL ARTS MAGAZINE
949 Printers Bldg., Worcester 8, Mass.

Please send CREATIVE ART CRAFTS
Enclosed is $3.75 in full payment.

 

 

Get ideas you want quickly with this popular book.
i

Name .............................................................................................................................. ..

Address ..................................................................................................................... ..

City or Town ............................................................. .. State...............................

 

In Defense of Hobbies—Especially
Stamp COIIecting

(Continued from page 31'1)
'This is a type of hoarding to which the govern-
ment has no objection. There is, in fact, a special
Philatelic Department in the post office which sells
.stamps exclusively to collectors, and in many of
the large cities special windows are set aside for
these sales. -

The solicitude of the post office bears dividends
in other ways. Stamp collectors are cranks who
seek perfection, and some have been known to
hang around in front of a window in a post office
«closely examining sheet after sheet of stamps

shown him by a patient clerk, in search of stamps
in a particular position of the sheet or some in
which the design is exactly in the center. Other
stamp collectors sympathize with such scrutiny
but some patrons, just wanting to buy a stamp to
put on a letter, haven’t always been patient with
these perfectionists! So now a clerk in the post
office looks over his stock of stamps and puts the
best sheets aside for the stamp collectors.

Collecting is an activity of instinctive appeal.
Either you like to collect things or you don’t, and
most people do like to collect something even when
they call it “putting it aside in case it will come in
handy some time.” Psychiatrists tell us that the
lack of satisfaction in any of the fundamental needs'
results in a compensatory type of behavior which
may be quite detrimental to the individual’s wel-
fare. They say that collecting is a normal, basic
desire of human beings and that a hobby has much
to do with maintaining composure and mental
freshness.

Living today is fraught with many distressing
anxieties which tend to upset the equilibrium of
many people. There are real values in any hobby
in which we may be interested. The thrill of find-
ing the rare and beautiful; the pleasure which
comes from discovering a new item; the joy of
discussing with friends something just acquired
for one’s collection give zest to any hobby and
provide much satisfaction which helps in carrying
us over the disappointments of life.

In London, during the great “blitz,” public air
raid shelters resembled collectors’ clubs as men
and women talked about their stamps or passed
around a hastily snatched piece of china or other
item from their hobby collections. The wardens
found that these collectors, of all the people com-
ing to the shelters, were the least given to hyster-
ics, panic, or grumbling.

Through any hobby, but more especially stamp
collecting, it is possible—at least in our opinion—-
to rediscover those mysterious and hidden pleas—
ures that are to be derived from following our own
interests and using our own efforts to produce

masterpieces.

Columbia's Far-Flung Recreation

Program
(Continued from page 298)

For the duration, the American Legion has
turned over its hut for soldier recreation. Located
in Maxcy Gregg Park, this hut is far from the
noise of the city and nightly parties are enjoyed
by soldiers and civilians.

RECREATION

SPORT MAKES GOOD FLYING MEN 32‘)

Gonzales Gardens, Andrew Jackson and Allen-
Benedict housing projects also lend their facilities
for social and playground activities to. servicemen,
civilians and their families. The Columbia Recrea-
tion Program furnishes leaders to them.

Washington Street Methodist and the First
Presbyterian churches have thrown open the doors
of their recreation buildings to men in the armed
forces, under city leadership assisted by church
volunteers. Various church organizations assist
with parties, dances and athletics.

Pretty girls are always on hand to play indoor
basketball, table tennis, checkers, and card games
and to dance. The boys also have available the
reading room, as well as invigorating hot showers
, with towels.

Columbia’s Recreation Program has a strong
Negro program consisting of home hospitality,
dancing and athletics. There are three, community
centers where preschools are held in the morning,
teen age and soldier recreation in the afternoon
and night.

Service officers, who discover the program upon
arrival in the city, are amazed at the facilities and
activities offered. Not only is the social life well
taken care of but the home life as well, for there

In every Ifield of sportnin Profes-
sional..Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-

ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
Goldsmith Sports Equipment is rec-
ognized as a hallmark of quality
and unvarying performance, -r

are lists of rooms and apartments which are avail-
able, a mending station where buttons and chevrons
are sewed on, and nursery care centers, preschools,
l employment service, dancing classes, children’s

II ‘I - u I
MACGREGOR-GOLDSMITH I~c.,_   .3 §§3§f§go§mr§figi¢

JOHN G FINDLAV srs. CINCINNATI Id. OHIO. U.S.R-

 

(Manufacturers. ancinna tr’. 0.

Sport Makes Good Flying Men

 

 

clubs, mothers’ club, dramatic clubs and whole-
. some community life.

At all times the park facilities, including recrea-
tion cabin, preschools, playground equipment,
picnic shelters and Dutch ovens are available to
the public.

How Recreation Came to

Norway. Maine

(Continued from page 310)
steps taken by Norway and the cooperating agen-

cies so that people will see how really easy it is.
We are helping her with this exhibit, sending her
sample copies of some of the bulletins' and the
magazine, and also a few of the publications which
will be helpful. Again in her own words Miss
Williston says, “Of course I will tell all of the
people that if they become members of the Na-
tional Recreation Association they will be kept
currently informed of developments in places like
theirs, and they will find that they have made a
very good and sound investment.”

Is THIS THE END? No—ONLY THE BEGINNING!

SEPTEMBER 1944

(Continued from page 305)
“In the preface to this latest manual of the

Navy Pre-Flight Division, Captain F. T. Ward
says: ‘It is our duty to train the cadets to be
superior to the enemy mentally and physically.
Rigorous, tough, competitive sports offer an ex-
cellent medium to fulfill this mission. Records
have proved that mental improvement goes hand
in hand with better physical condition.’

“His remarks are particularly timely in view of
observations on fitness recently made by Lieut.
Col. Howard Berry of the Marine Corps. ‘We have
rejected more men,’ he declared, ‘than were in the
armed forces last time. . . . The fitness of our citi-
zens was a prewar problem; it is a war problem;
it will,be a problem in the postwar world.’ ”

The Community Use of Schools
(Continued from Page 320)
well as mental strength and vitality. We must
know how to recreate that strength and vitality.
This is the joint responsibility of the schools and
of recreation agencies. In isolation, each may be

330

 

 

Edi-Von Gan Use '

THE JOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health,
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human

beings. $2.50 per year.
Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

—¢—-—.——-———

 

 

ineffective, if not harmful. Together, they possess
untold possibilities for national welfare.

Square Dancing During Intermissions

(Continued from page 303)
Lady in the lead—single tile, Indian style
(Gent puts the lady he swung in front of him)
Turn and swing her once in a while
Repeat five or six times

Circle all (one large circle)
Promenade all

Ladies keep on to the right single file
Gents turn back single file

Promenade all
Single Elem-Indian style—lady in the lead

Hands on the one in front of you
(Leader leads group into the center, and leading to the
left makes the circle smaller and smaller until it is
as tight as possible)
(Music stops)
Leader asks everyone to sit (very carefully) in the lap
of the one behind him
All stand up
(Music 'begins again)
Hand on shoulders of one in front of you
Leader starts back in opposite direction and unwinds the
group
There is another way of introducing square

dancing without making a group feel that it is
being forced upon them, and that is the plan of
having a square dance going on in another room at
the same time social dancing is being enjoyed in
the main dance hall. A sign may be placed in the
hall near the social dance group announcing that
square dancing is being taught across the hall or
on another floor. Where this has been tried it has

been found that many young people will drop in to
learn the dances.

NOT TOO OLD TO ENJOY LIFE

Not Too 'Old to Enioy Life

(Continued from page 314)

where old people have an opportunity to display
their rare old keepsakes which give them such

personal delight.
Clubs for older people (this has been done in
Cleveland by the Benjamin Rose Institute).

Inviting the older pe0ple in the community,
whether residents of institutions or not, to attend

holiday celebrations and special functions where -
the “Father-Son” arrangement of the program is ,
adapted to an audience representing several gen— .

erations.

Checker tournaments, horseshoe matches, spell— '
ing bees, old iiddlers’ contests, old-time singing I

schools, square dancing. Croquet, shuflieboard,

checkers, halma‘, and other games known to be en- I

joyed by old pe0ple, including “old country”
games, such as, “bocci” and “curling,” should be
provided.

A publication which has in it items of particular
interest to older pe0ple, such as radio programs,
interesting places to go, a calendar of events at the
library and museum, easy recipes, suggested read-
ing, original poetry, and editorials by the old folks
themselves.

What Can We Do, or What Should We
Do, in Our City?
Remind the Hobby League (which is part of
the Playground Association) of the value of serv—

ing as a clearing house where hobbyists can get in
touch with others of their same interest.

Remind churches of their responsibility to their
own older adult congregation. ‘

Remind city institutions, such as, schools, libra-
ries, recreation centers, of the need for interesting
older people in their programs.

See that institutions are aware of the persons on
their waiting lists and, whenever possible, include
them in the programs planned for the Home.
(Perhaps. other old people living in the neighbor—
hood might be included, too.)

Suggest to recreation committees of the various
Homes for the Aged to correspond or meet with
each other and exchange ideas on recreation facili—

ties, supplies, and programs.

Recommend to private agencies the possibilities
of volunteer service in working with the aged, that
is, writing letters, running errands, playing a new
game, reading aloud, cooperating on a scrap—book,

RECREATION

RECREATION A DEVELOPING PROFESSION

and visiting with the excuse of doing these ser-
vices, but primarily to listen.

Consider the possibility of a publication or even
a regular column in a local newspaper devoted to
interests of older people, especially those who feel

“alone” and “aged.”

Consider sponsoring a “treasure show” or
hobby show.

Make further effort to keep institutions and those
workers dealing with the aged people in their own
homes informed of interesting things and exhibits
which the old folks might attend and enjoy.

Recommend to recreation agencies that they
consider old people in planning their programs,
including them in as many activities as they now
have, and arranging for others which may be par-
ticularly suited to their needs. These should in-
clude some consideration of how shut-ins can have
‘ some part in the agency’s program.

Recreation a Developing Profession
(Continued from page 301)

because of our love for the work and the challenge
it holds. Certainly the spirit in which recreation
leaders do their work compares favorably with the
Spirit in which members of other professions dis-
charge their obligations.

In Brief

In summary, it appears that recreation is not yet
a fully established profession but is a profession in
the making. Although there are recreation leaders
who may be classified as professional, the entire
group does not yet meet the standards of a pro-
fession. Potentially, recreation is a profession. If
recreation is to gain recognition professionally, we
ourselves must take the initiative in maintaining
.and advancing standards. '-

Opportunities Offered by Yhour

Social Centers
( C ontimred from page 309)

organized playgrounds, carries on activities in
thirty-two indoor centers, and conducts municipal
games, leagues, and tournaments in twenty-six dif-
ferent sports. (Extracts from article by Dorothy
Enderis in Annual Convention Publication—1943
—of the Wisconsin State Federation of Labor.

“It has been said that a life without a hobby is
like a house without windows.”

SEPTEMBER 1944

 

331

That feeling of confidence when your soft-
ball hitters step up to the plate with a
Louisville Slugger is one of those intangible
but important things that makes champions.
It always pays to play with the best!
"Official Softball Rules for I944" is ready
now. Write us for free copies to supply your
teams. Please address Dept. R. Hillerich
and Bradsby Co.. Inc.. Louisville 2. Ky.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

SLUGGER BATS

FOR SOFTBALL 8: BASEBALL

    

332 THE BLAIR COMMUNITY CENTER

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MUNICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation exeCutives with the administration aspects of
their department and its correlation with other departments of city government. Special emphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play-
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and
reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an Opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each
lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfacrory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently wrote, "Trailefally I cannot remember any
ep‘ort on my part which has paid 0]} in dividends to quickly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
l3|3 Easthth StreetI Chicago 37, Illinois

The Blair Community Center
(Continued frcim page 294)

The information was all collected and the proj—
ect began shortly after the closing of regular
school. Blair Community Center was open from
8 :30 in the morning until 5 :00 in the afternoon—
the period of, time during which the data showed
there was the greatest need for child care. Those
who wanted to stayed for the full day, as pro-
visions were made for them to have lunch at the
building. The children took an active part in the
planning, preparation and serving of lunch and in

the cleaning up, too. Many times vegetables from
the school Victory Garden were served.

The general plan of the Center worked out
somewhat as follows but the program was very
flexible and varied from time to time:

8:30 A.M. - ll :30 A.M.—Group and individual work and
play consisting chiefly of sewing,
weaving, garden work, cooking,
handcraft, art work, baseball,
checkers, puzzles

11 :30 A.M. - 1 :00 P. M.—Lunch and rest period

1 :00 P. M. - 1 :45 P. M.——Reading in the library. Individual
help and guidance when needed.
Children were able to check out
books for home use every Friday

1:45 RM. - 2:30 P. M.——F01k dancing, music, singing,

group plays and dramatizations

 

2:30 P.M.- 5:00 Rim—Games (individual and group),
sewing, crocheting, embroidering.
knitting, art, handcraft, weaving

N 0 child was forced to follow this flexible pro-
gram but rather his, time was used according to his
interests and needs. However, children were en-
couraged to finish work that they had started.

Many handcraft articles were made for the
Junior Red Cross, such as the three very beautiful
and colorful lap robes for the convalescing soldiers
at the Percy Jones Hospital. One of the robes was
so attractive that it was used for a wall hanging.
Pillow covers were also made for the hOSpital, and
the boys and girls wove blocks for a woolen afghan
f0r the soldiers. The boys made a number of bean
bag boards to be used in one of the recreation
centers at Fort Custer, and stuffed animals and
dolls were sent to the local day nursery.

There were also opportunities for the children
to make various articles for their families and
themselves ——d011 clothes, luncheon cloths and
napkins, dolls, stuffed animals. The girls made
“shaggy rugs” after studying colors and working
out color schemes to fit in with their bedrooms at
home. One girl went a step further and made a
vanity skirt and stool for her bedroom.

Over 250 children were enrolled at the Center
last year and they ranged from six months of age

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 333

to seventeen years. Of this number fifty-six were
of preschool age. The older children shared re—
sponsibility in working with this group by reading
to them, playing with them in the sand box, direct-
ing the use of the teeter and other equipment and
helping with feeding and rest.

The Center project for the season was cul-
minated by arranging an exhibit and program for
the parents and other interested adults of the com-
munity. The pr0gram consisted of folk dancing,
singing, and a marionette show for which the chil-
dren had made their own maricinettes and theater
during the summer.

A Canteen for Teen-Agers
(Continued from page 293)

possible for youthful vocalists from the audience
to diSplay their talents over the mike.

Supervisors of the canteen are divided into two
groups: adult and junior aides. The children col-
lect the. admission fees, serve at the refreshment
counter and remind the patrons to keep the soda
bar neat and orderly. The committee reports that
there have been as many as 400 in attendance on
one night, though the average is between 200
and 250.

The canteen, which had been very successful
over the summer months, continued through the
winter—in the afternoons and Friday and Satur-
day nights to avoid distraction from school work.

Many of the neighborhood churches and busi-
ness men’s and parent-teacher groups have given
$5 and $10 donations though now the enterprise is
more than solvent. All debts have been paid and
the committee is several hundred dollars ahead.
This money goes into the Community Council
treasury to launch another program for the younger
(doorkey) age groups.

Much praise has come from both parents and
local pastors who have visited the canteen. The
children themselves have made many favorable
comments. One boy said to a committee member
in a reproachful tone one night, “You should have
done this long ago.” And a judge as far away as
Chester, Pennsylvania, told a mother who was
blaming the courts for inadequately coping with
the delinquency problem, “If you and your fellow
citizens would follow the example set by the citi-
zens of Roxborough, Manayunk and Wissahickon,
by sponsoring a project similar to the Community
Canteen, delinquency would be lessened.”

SEPTEMBER 1944

   
 

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

MAGAZI N ES

H ygeia, July 1944
A Break for the War Wounded, Rex M. King

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1944

Current Problems in Recreation, H. D. Corbin

Developing Citizenship Through~a Swimming Pro-
gram, Clyde E. Mu‘llis

Golf Libraries and Museums, 0. M. Leland

Social Action, June 15, 1944
Children and Young People in Wartime Communities

The Camping Magazine, June 1944

Teaching Campers to Sail, Joyce Bertram
Camp Festivals, Paul K. Weinandy
Camping for Crippled Children, II, Ernest B. Marx

American City, July 1944

Swimming Pool Purification Without Smarting
Eyes, F. B. Griffeth

Parents’ Magazine, August 1944

We’re Tired of Juvenile Delinquency, lby a Seventeen-
Year-Old High School Girl

Play Yard for a Toddler, Evelyn Emig Mellon

Beach and Pool, July 1944

Mass Instruction for Beginning Swimmers, Robert
Roger

Efficient Filtering Mediums, H. G. Turner

Atlantic Monthly, June 1944
VVorkin-g Around the Clock, Paul and Faith Pigors

Parks and Recreation, July— August 1944

London’s Parks in Battledress, Harley V. Usill
The Maintenance Mart

PAM PHLETS

Our Concern—E very Child

State and Community Planning for Wartime and

Postwar Security of Children. Children’s Bureau,
Washington, D. C.

Summer Activities for Girl Scouts

Girl Scouts, 155 East 44th Street, New York 17,
N. Y.

Summer Fun for Girls and Boys

Group Work Division of the Council of Social Agen-
cies, Greater Portland Community Chest, Portland,
Maine.

Outdoors on Your Own

The American Home, 444 Madison Avenue, New
York 22, N. Y. Price 15 cents

334 FATHER ANDREWS AND HIS PARISHIONERS

RECENT PORTER SARGENT BOOKS

The FUTURE of EDUCATION

256 pages, red silk cloth, $2.00

Reports on the changes that have been brought
about by the military realists who have taken control

——revicws the current hopes and aspirations for post-
war education—regrets the timorous who advocate
retreat to the dead past—suggests how to liberalize
“Liberal Education” and humanize “The Humanities.”

Handbook of

. PRIVATE SCHOOLS
23th edition, 1024 pages, red silk cloth, $6.00

Completely revised and reset. 3,000 schools criti-
cally described or listed, cross referenced and indexed.
The Introduction annually reviews and surveys cur-
rent educational thought.

“WAR and EDUCATION”

Ist printing May 1943; 2nd May 1944
512 pages, black vellum, $4.00

“One of the few books on education that made any

sense to me,” Richard T. La Piere, Stanford U.
“Extraordinarin good stuff,” W. Lloyd Warner, U. of
Chicago. “Complete and scholarly,” Rockwell Kent.
“A most stimulating book,” Read Bain, Miami U.,
Ohio. “A must book for all men and women,” Marco
Morrow, Topeka. “A vigorous book,” Merle Curti,
U. of W is. “A mine of information,” Alliston Cragg.
“Amount of information leaves me gasping,” Maj.-
Gen. J. F. C. Fuller, England. “Indispensable to the
modern mind,” John Haynes Holmes. “Discloses a
remarkable intellect, breadth of understanding, unbe-
lievable mental energy,” George H. Tinhham.
Circulars and Table of Contents on Request

PORTER SARGENT, 11 Beacon St., Boston 8,Mass.

A People's Chorus and Community
Orchestra

(Continued from page 299)
promoted a series of Sunday Community Sings,

and has given concerts for Parent-Teacher Asso-
ciations, War Mothers, and similar groups. The
director is glad to accept invitations to sing before
community groups of all types, and the organiza-
tion is very much in demand. These public per—
formances give the group a definite reason for re—
hearsing, and the groups and players derive much
pleasure from having audiences who appreciate
them.

The Playground and Recreation Association
plays an important part in the organization. It
handles all publicity, types the song sheets, buys
all original music and scores, takes care of dues
(which are $1.00 a year), and sponsors all pro-
grams. The director is paid by the Association,
although eventually it is expected the organiza-
tion will take care of its own finances, and may
even break away from the Association altogether,
as other organizations, such as the Little Theater
and Civic Opera Company, have done.

Father Andrews and His

Parishioners

ATHER ANDREWS, white pastor of St. Eliza—

beth’s Church in the heart of the Negro slum
section of St. Louis, is deeply concerned not only
about the spiritual but material well—being of his
parishioners and the entire Negro population of
the city. He has organized Coal Cooperatives,
Chicken Cooperatives, and initiated a number of
other projects, among them the establishment of
vacant lots as parks.

The story is told in the May 1944 issue of
Survey Graphic, from which we quote.

“Shortly after the Detroit race riot, Father
Andrews and a number of other St. Louis citizens,
Negro and white, formed an interracial committee.
The present Mayor, Aloys Kaufman, deeply in-
terested in any move to forestall interracial troubles
in St. Louis, proposed that the committee be en—
larged, divided into subcommittees, each one
charged with some specific phase of Negro wel—
fare, and given official standing as the St. Louis
Race Relations Commission.

“Through this official committee, Father An-
drews is getting results on a recreation project
that for over a year he has been promoting by
word of mouth wherever he could get a listener:
remodelling vacant lots into small playgrounds
and parks in Negro slum areas. Most of the
crowded houses have no porches and no yards.
The public parks are miles distant. In hot St.
Louis summers the residents have had either to
stay cooped up in their rooms or hang around on
the streets.

“Sprinkled over this area are parcels of land in
25, 50, and 75-foot lots that the city acquired}
for delinquent taxes. For years most of these
vacant lots had been cluttered with rubble and
wreckage after buildings were condemned and
torn down. Father Andrews proposed that som
of these lots be cleared, planted with grass seed, I
furnished with swings and sand piles for children"
and benches for older people. With Edwin B

Meissner, president of St. Louis Car Company‘
and chairman of the Race Relations Commission
in the lead, this inexpensive conversion is now

under way. Some will be ready for .use by late!
spring, others by summer. The tiny, pleasan

parks will make the city attractive and will help
siphon off hot weather tension.” I

    
   
  

RECREATION O

Police Captain a Friend of Youth

(Continued from page 318)
Board is only electricity for lights. All janitor

service is done by the boys.)

“Although girls aren’t formally included in our
organization, their leagues and their attendance at
the boys’ games and dances take much of their
time,” Cap't. Morrow explains. “We manage to
keep all of the young people quite busy. From
being a town with nothing to do, Somers Point has
become a place with continuous activity.”

Not only have these activities been made pos—
sible with no expense to taxpayers except that for
' a few electric lights, but the boys’ club recently
donated to the Red Cross $100, much of which
was raised by a basketball game. The organization
also gave $59 to the infantile paralysis campaign.
Much of this money was raised by collecting scrap.

Boys pay an initiation fee of $I and dues of five
cents a week. They make their own rules and no
boy has ever yet dropped out of the club.

Plan War Memorial
The club is not using the treasury it has ac—
lcumulated, saving it as the nucleus of a fund for an
unusual memorial to its soldiers to be built after
ithe war.
“The city owns some vacant land excellent for
Ja baseball field,” Capt. Morrow explains. “We
' expect to have from $I,000 to $2,000 in our treas—
lury when the war ends. We have several old
l'houses around town which aren’t worth much but
\have some excellent timber in them. We hope to
buy these- houses and use the timber to build a
l fence and grandstand. This field would be our war
.'memorial. I know the soldiers would prefer that
to a granite pigeon roost. The town is tilled with
handy men who are willing to donate their labor.
That is one practical way in which they can
give vent to their appreciation of the sacrifices of
our servicemen.” -— From C ommmzity Recreation
Bulletin.

 

 

Recreation in Municipal Parks
(Continued from page 289)

memorate some event or person. Why shouldn’t
we recommend that these funds be diverted for
recreation expansion, acquisition of land, construc-
tion of community buildings, year long swimming
pools, and many other facilities from which the
public can receive tangible benefits?“

Our public parks now offer and are increasingly
expanding recreational services. But the rate to

SEPTEMBER 1944

POLICE CAPTAIN A FRIEND OF YOUTH 335

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
865 MARQUETTE - FOND DU LAC, wrs.

 

which the needs are met is directly proportionate
to the effective methods that are devised for crys-
tallizing public opinion, public provision of funds,
and adequate methods fOr stimulating and admin-'
istering a recreational program. School and col-
lege physical educators have a stake in our munici-
pal parks. They will be as useful as you wish to
make them.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
' (Continued from page 321)

not only “told” local history for the Howard
County Centennial Celebration, but presented the
birds that it had heard throughmthe century. Mary
E. Cedars and Elizabeth Calhoun, descendants of
early settlers, wrote the script. '

Weather. “Everybody’s Weather,” by Joseph
Gaer.  B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. 96 pp., illus. $2.

“Winter Victory Gardens,” tells how to grow
vegetables, flowers and berries indoors all winter.
Virginia Larkin, Lark Publishing Company, 305
Walnut Street, Cincinnati 2, Ohio. $1.

Wood. “Wartime Harvests from Farm Wood-
lands.” U. S. Government Printing Office, 1944.
Eight pages, illustrated. (AWI-80) Single copies
free from Department of Agriculture.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Musical Recreation I944

Compiled by Lili Heimers, Ph.D. New Jersey State
Teachers College, Upper Montclair, New Jersey. $.25.
ACOLLECTION OF SOURCE MATERIAL including charts,
films, slides and filmslides, pictures, publications, re-
cordings, and phonograph records. The subjects covered
include Bands and Orchestras, Songs, Plays and Pag-
eants, Folk Festivals, Holidays, and Dancing.

Subdivision Regulations

-—An Analysis of Land Subdivision Control Practices.
By Harold W. Lautner. Public Administration Ser-

vice, Chicago. $2.90.
- HIS IS AN EXTREMELY valuable compilation of prin-

ciples and practices in subdivision planning and con-
trol. It includes a section on Standards and Design Re—
quirements, with unusually helpful discussions of public
open spaces such as playgrounds, parks, and school sites.
It discusses accepted standards for different types of play
areas and a review of local municipal requirements for
the setting aside of such areas in new subdivisions by
communities throughout the entire country.

In view of the expected large program of new sub-
division development in the postwar period to meet the
present shortage in housing, the discussions in this sec-
tion should be of particular value to local recreation
executives in making their own plans for making sure
that new subdivisions in their communities are planned
and developed in such a way as to provide for the neces-

' sary neighborhood and community recreation areas.

Baby Orang and Junior

By Katharine K. Garbutt. Pictures by Bernard Garbutt.

. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston. $.85.

ETTLE CHILDREN will enjoy this story of the baby monkey
and the elephant who became firm friends. This book

is one of a series of attractive animal stories written for

children. Another which will have a special appeal for

children is M uggim, the story of a cat, by Bianca

Bradbury; pictures by Diana Thorne ($.85).

You Can Make It

Things to Do with Scissors and Paste. By Louis V.
Newkirk, Ph.D. and LaVada Zutter, M. A. Silver
Burdett Company, New York 3. $3.00.

MOST OF THE ARTICLES described in this book are made
of paper, and the authors have offered a wide range
of projects including personal adornments, toys and
games, gifts and decorations for holidays and special
occasions, projects and decorations for school and home,
and for the library and study. One chapter is devoted to
a discussion of materials, tools, and processes.

A list of the supplies needed is given at the beginning
of each project, and text and illustrations combine to

make it easy for a child to complete an article without
help.

336

pany, Ltd., 177 Jarvis Street, Toronto, Canada. $.25.
ADELIGHTFULLY ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET designed to bring
to boys and girls more enjoyment and appreciation
of nature through first-hand contacts with natural
phenomena close at hand. Each chapter is devoted to
activities for two months. Illustrations as well as printed
matter suggest the week—by-week activities.

Symbols. A Practical Handbook

The Lutheran Walther League, 875 North Dearborn
Street, Chicago, Illinois. $.50.

HERE IS AN INTERESTING COLLECTION of Christian sym-.
bols which will be of great interest to all wishing to '
make use of such symbols in publications of various‘
kinds. The revived interest in the traditional liturgy of ~
the Christian symbolism and its beauty and significance
make this a timely publication.

Free World Theatre

Nineteen New Radio Plays. Edited by Arch Oboler and i-
Stephen Longstreet. Random House, 20 East 57th'
Street, New York 22. $2.75.

WENTY-ONE DISTINGUISHED screen and radio artists

have collaborated to produce these plays, designed for
propaganda-for-democracy programs. Quotations from
world leaders have been utilized as the basic themes of
the plays, all of which are available royalty free for'non-l
commercial broadcasts provided they are used to further
the war effort.

Nature Activities
-——Week by Week Throughout the Year. By J. A. Part-
ridge and D. E. Farwell. Wittemore Publishing Com-

 

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. VVINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

HENRY L. CORBE'I'T, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscon, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. VVAREURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, VVaShington, D. C.

