Al Smith

N THE DEATH of Alfred E. Smith on October
4, 1944, the national recreation movement
lost a loyal friend.

Many years ago, before Al Smith gained
a world reputation, he was asked if he would
join the staff of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation. He sat back in his chair and looked out
of the window and talked about how much he
cared for boys and how much he enjoyed work-
ing for them. He spoke of. how much music
could mean in the lives of the boys even in the
most crowded city. districts, and wished that
something.could be done to make sure that there
were a very much larger number of music teach-
ers who would give lessons at a fee not exceeding
fifty cents a lesson. Though he did not feel free
to devote himself to the national recreation Pach Brothers, New York
movement as a staff member, he was always
ready to throw his influence to help when called upon. At one time a bill was before the New York
State Legislature to amend the act giving local communities home rule in establishing recreation sys-
tems. Al Smith was so deeply interested that he, as Governor, sent three separate messages regarding
this bill, and it was his help that brought about its passage.

One of the close associates of Al Smith in days at Albany was Belle Lindner Moskowitz.
who had been so successful a member of the National Recreation Association staff, working on com-
mercial recreation problems. Another close friend was Robert Moses. Al Smith gave wholehearted
backing to Robert Moses in building up various parks in New York State and particularly in the

development of the internationally famed Jones Beach. Jones Beach is a monument not only to
Robert Moses but also to Al Smith.

He was a natural recreation leader of no little capacity and with such social gifts that he
was a welcome companion in his home neighborhood and came to be beloved by New York up-
state legislators and by many who came to know him throughout the nation. On the closing night
of the legislative sessions at Albany, Republicans as well as Democrats gathered in the Governor's
chamber as they waited for the time that had been set for adjournment, because everyone liked to be

with. Al Smith. For many years he was known as “The Happy Warrior.” He had a rich, human
quallty wh1ch made the days pleasanter because he was around.

Our playgrounds and our recreation centers greatly need leaders with the natural gifts he pos-
sessed in such large measure. He had worked in the fish market, had lived on the sidewalks of New
York, knew what boys and men cared for. With him public recreation was not something which
one group provides for another, but rather what all the people work out for all citizens. He was a

leader of the Lincoln tradition. He was thoroughly alive himself, and he had a way of sharing that
life with all who’came near him.

The recreation movement succeeds or fails according as it imparts a quality to all of living.
Al Smith was particularly successful in bringing the recreation spirit into everything he did and
1ncreasing the sum total of human happiness because of the spirit he carried with him. He made
New York City a kindlier and a friendlier place just because he lived in it. He was equally at home
on the East Side and speaking on the Harvard University platform with an intellectual leader such
as Professor Albert North Whitehead. A part of his great strength was that he always spoke in such
clear and simple language that no one could doubt what he was saying. His deepest thinking was
understood by the ordinary man on the street. All felt that he knew what was in the hearts of men.

Above all else. the national recreation movement needs for its lay as well as its professional
leadershlp 1n the var1ous netghborhoods men who have‘ in some small degree the gifts for comrade-

ship, for leadership, for simple, human living, for understanding of men that Al Smith possessed in
such large measure. '

 

HQWARD BRAUCHER

 

NOVEMBER | 944-

 

393

November

 

i

Courtesy Oji‘icz'al Information Bureau of Switzerland

RECREATION I

394

 

Get In There and Paint!

“ O HAVE reached the
Tage of 40 Without ever
handling a brush or
fiddling. with a pencil, and
then suddenly to find one— ~
self plunged in the middle
of a new and intense form
of interest and action with
paints and palettes and can-
vases, and not to be dis-
couraged by results, is an
astonishing and enriching
experience. I hope it may be
‘shared by others.”

Thus wrote Winston
Churchill a dozen years ago. He is still so enthusi-
astic an amateur that he took his brushes to Casa-
blanca and after that historic conference stole a
day to go painting.

Mr. Churchill wasn’t talking through his cigar!
Painting pictures is fun. You can do it—anybody
.can do it. And if you mistake this for one of these
now—even-y0u-can-play-the-saxophone claims, you
will ban yourself from a hereby guaranteed hobby
that pays almost indecently large dividends in
ecstacy. It is the only hobby that is insulated with
adamant against the intrusion of worry. It is an
authentic passport to delightful new powers of
observation by which you will see and really ap—
preciate for the lirst time everything from the Taj
Mahal to a tin cup. And all the pictures you paint
will always remain heartening reminders of the
happiest moments of your life.

The best thing about painting as a hobby is that
it is so easy. You don’t have to be able to draw
to do it. Painting in oils is the easiest form of art!

“What about water colors?” you ask.

Very glad you brought that up. It leads us to
a very important point, entitled . . . Water Colors
Must Go!

We give children little tin water color boxes
because water colors are cheaper than oils and
(more important) they are far more tidy. The
picture of a six-year-old set loose with a palette of
oils is a horrible one. But little tin boxes of water
colors have done more to stifle interest in painting
than the competition of all other hobbies combined.

Water colors in amateur hands are feeble things :

NOVEMBER 1944

By JOSEPH ALGER

Long ago Mr. AlgerI an advertising man
in New York City. began fooling with the
brushes and paints of an artist friend—and
puts it. "I have been
stuck in that delightful fIy-paper ever since."
Mr. Alger is a talented amateur pianist. but
he says that his music does not give him
the relaxation painting does. "When I play.
and forget to put my thumb just so. I
worry. But when I paint, if my tree looks
like a pineapple, it doesn't bother me. I
forget my troubles."

was lost. or. as he

 

pale imitations of the bright
glories of nature. And hard
to handle! They run, they
streak, they fade, they blur.
You paint in the sky and
quickly realize it is much
too dark. Too late! You
can’t correct it, once it’s on
paper. Only an expert who
knows exactly what he is
going to do should be per-
mitted to use water colors
at all. So no matter how
much you like other people’s
water colors, avoid trying
to make your own. "

Let’s get some oils and start painting. You will
find people in artists’ supplies stores very friendly
and helpful, and quite used to beginners and their
questions. You can get"all the materials you’ll
need for a long time for less than ten dollars.
Probably you would feel too self-conscious in a
smock and tam-o’-shanter. But do wear old
clothes and have plenty of rags at hand. A blob

of vermillion doesn’t look so good on a new gray
suit.

Let’s Go!

Now, let’s go.

Remember, you don’t have to draw to paint.
We abandoned that statement back up the road a
piece. Let’s take’ it up again.

The elTect of a painting is produced largely by
color and needn’t lean heavily on the outlines. All
we need are a few lines to indicate the general
shapes.

You’re going to paint that picturesque old barn.
All right. One vertical line (better use charcoal)
will place the corner of the barn, another line the
base. A couple of lines for the trunk of the tree,
and maybe a branch or two. Then a line to indi-
cate the horizon—whatever divides the sky from
whatever meets it (tree, barn, hill). That’s all!
N 0 leaves, doorknobs, cats, mice or daffodils. It’s
the painting that’s fun, and any time wasted in
getting into a mess of details is to be deplored. As
we start to paint, anything resembling a real
drawing on our canvas is purely coincidental.

395

396 GET IN THERE AND PAINT!

The great moment is upon you. Soon you will 

reach that ecstatic state of self-confidence when
you will take advice from nobody. So before it’s
too late, one word: Don’t spare the horses!
Plaster it on. There are no flimsy, treacherous water
colors. These are lusty, pliable, cooperative oils.
There is nothing you can do that cannot be undone
at the next stroke of the brush. One thing: Keep
everything big! Anything that is too small or too
detailed for a good-sized brush shouldn’t be in the
picture at all.

Now squeeze out little blobs of color on your
palette, and a big blob of white. And take a look
at that sky. It is, let’s say, cloudless. And it really
is blue. Still not as blue as Uncle Ed’s shirt. Take
a half of a butter ball of white on your palette
knife and plaster it on the front of your palette.
Careful now! just a pinch of blue and mix with
the white until there are no streaks. Not blue
enough? All right, just a tiny bit more—but easy!
Satisfied? Dip your brush in‘ the turpentine, then
in the paint and slap it on! Boldlya—never mind
if you slop over the barn a bit.

The barn is red—vermillion and white seem to
mix the right tone for the sunny side. A very
little black and blue darken it to what seems right
for the shady side. The grass in the direct sun-
light is a golden green—yellow with a little blue
and some white. In the shade, it’s a deeper green-—
meaning we add a ,lot of blue.

If you’ve painted over some of the trunk of the
tree, never mind. Scrape the paint off with the
knife. Corrections are a cinch in oil painting. You
can scrape with the knife, wipe with the rag. Or
you can let the whole thing dry and paint right
over what you’ve done.

Back off now, five or six paces, and take a look.
Begins to look like something, doesn’t it? And
yet this is your very first try! You’re on your
own from now on. Use your own judgment.
Squint, make up your mind what color you see,
and experiment until you get it. You’ll inevitably
wish you had a tiny brush to fill in little details.
Resist that temptation!

What to Paint

After the barn, what else shall we paint? Some-
thing outdoors on a sunny day is perhaps the
easiest. But if it’s a gloomy or cold day and you
want to paint in the house, try a still life. The still
life is the show-off of the professionals. It proves
that they can take humdrum subjects and do fine
painting for painting’s sake. But it’s great sport

for amateurs. So group your pipe, bottle, book,
and orange to please your own taste and paint
away. And you will enjoy doing the corner of a
room with a chair, a table and a lamp, but you, will
get happier results if Aunt Susan is not sitting in
the chair at the time! Portraits are for profes-
sionals. They are the devil to do. ’

Snow is a painting pushover. A snow covered
landscape is just about the easiest thing in paint-
ing. Snow, as advertised, is white. Water is no
color, actually; to the painter, it is whatever color
it reflects. The sky is or is not blue, as happens.
But snow is right there in your tube of white.
Sometimes it will catch glints of yellow or pink,
and its shadows are blue, not black. Still, snow is
white, and a great comfort. Snow’s only draw-
back is that it is as cold as it looks, and it is hard
to paint in mittens. Snowdrifts, a red barn, the
bare limbs of an apple tree, a cold blue sky——
there’s a picture. Corny? Sure—and so what?

The painter is master of all he surveys. If you
think your picture would be more interesting with
that tree moved over beyond the shed, put it there
and apologize to nobody. If there is a dull and
complicated wheelbarrow in front of you, ignore it.
Pretend you never saw it. Omission is no sin in
painting. It is, in fact, the road to good results.
W hat you want is a picture, not a real estate chart.

You will learn that many “pretty” things are
not especially good fun for painting. Flowers, for
example. Their bright colors are bait, but their
delicate and demanding details are pitfalls. A few
blobs of red showing poppies in a field—that’s one
thing, but a spray of gladioli is quite another.
And sunsets—skip them! They have been the
inspiration for more bad pictures than any other
subject.

Some day you will round the bend of a moun-
tain road and look for miles over a green valley to
more mountains. “What a picture!” you may
think. But think twice. There is no large central
object of interest. What you see is just a giant
bowl of leaves, and you will probably have a tough
time getting any of the staggering effect you ex—
perience in real life.

   
 

Your subject should 'be interesting, simple, and{
practical rather than pretty. Ugliness is, curiously, .
often turned to beauty in painting. Try a picture
sometime when you happen on a parched field0
with broken and decayed tree stumps and a tumble-
down shack. Or see what happens when you paint
such mundane objects as a filling station or a

RECREATION

railroad depot. You may be pleasantly surprised.
And also try a strictly imaginary landscape. That’s
all right, too.

Observation Versus Mere Sight

Notice how your interest in everything around
you picks up after you take up oil painting. You
will be delighted to see that you have gained an-
other sense, the sense of observation as contrasted
with mere sight. You immediately see with great
interest and deep appreciation many things, long
right before you, which'you have never really seen
before. Brambles on the beach take on remarkable
beauty 'as they bow to the will of the wind. The
giant squashes posing majestically under the
' panoply of their elephantine leaves take on the
grace of brass horns. Your piano, which you have
seen about fifty times a day since you made the
first down payment, suddenly has a stately beauty.
;The intricacies of the strings have the orderly
'grandeur of the Bach fugues they produce.

Your newly acquired sense will make you con-
 scious, too, of the discords of sight. You will sud-
’ denly become aware that too many things in our
houses are ill-proportioned, and too many colors
are sickly and vulgar.

Even that is a risk worth taking as part of the
Iprice of delight. For painting does raise the cur-
ltain on a new and interesting world full of beauti-
' ful and comical and ugly and breath-taking sights.

You will regret all the years in which you have
' lived in blindness. '

   
        

A New Fellowship

You will feel a new fellowship with artists.
Corot, once a far removed Frenchman, becomes
your cousin. You admire the way he does foliage
and feel he would give you a pat on the back for
the way you handled that picket fence! You begin
to refer to artists as “We”— and that does more
for your soul than a free trip to Paris.

But you are hereby warned that professional
artists have no profound respect for amateurs.
They may call you a “Sunday painter,” by which
they mean they rank you with the man who imi—
tates bird calls at parties. But this should cause
you no discomfort at all.

You can find triumphant solace in the large
number of your fellow amateurs. The country is
riddled with painters, but they don’t wear tam-o’-
shanters or badges and you discover them usually
only through some chance remark. Or you hear
of one of the many, many painting clubs, such as

NOVEMBER 1944

GET IN THERE AND PAINT! 397'

the Chicago doctors’, or the New York business
men’s. Intimate though painting is, there are times
when you feel like coming out of your isolated
tower and communicating with the world beyond.
Clubs or groups are perfect for such moments.

The Awful Arts Club in New York City has
been wending its informal (no dues) way for ten
years. Its deprecatory title was adopted to make
sure no outsider should get the impression that any
member thought he was really an artist.

Not Least of All—Memories

One of the pleasures of painting is the fact that
each picture in your collection evokes a pleasant
memory. The still life of oranges and guitar brings
back a rainy afternoon when several friends
dropped in and you gave them all paints and
brushes. Everyone dived in with a will. The re-
sults were interesting and entertaining.

That picture of the small side street house brings
back a smile. All the morning you had been paint—
ing it in the comfortable tall grass and spring
shade. A boy came whistling home from school,
and, of course, stopped to inspect. After full five
minutes of silent observation he exclaimed, “Why,
that’s 1113; house!” Such inevitable insults are more
than atoned for by words of praise. One “Gee, I
wish I could paint!” is worth a dozen art school
diplomas. You may even get “Gee, I wish I could
paint like that!” which is a sort of Phi Beta Kappa
award.

So go and get paints and a handful of brushes,
palette and canvas and easel. Or use a makeshift
palette and one brush and no easel at all. The
thing is: '

Get in there and paint!

“Try painting your own pictures or making your
own music. . . . You’ll enjoy it more than that
which is offered professionally. Above all, bring
some cheerfulness into it. Art is born out of joy.
It is play.

“I will give you a yardstick, something to tell
you whether an art or an artist is really worthy of
your respect and admiration. The measure of
greatness lies in two simple and excellent words
of the English language that we rarely use and
might well use again. I shall now give them to
you as the final identification marks of great art,
or of great men and women, or of any great
leaders of society. The two words are ‘nobility’
and ‘dignity.’ ”—Hendrik Willem van Loan in
The N ew York Times.

What About Water Colors?

ticle, “Get In There and
Paint,” he supposes that you
ask, “What about water colors ?”
and he answers your hypothetical question with an
emphatic “Water colors must go!”
Now, don’t let the title of “art adviser” throw

I N MR. ALGER’S provocative ar-

you! As an art adviser, I am a train starter—the '

person who knows where, when and how the train
goes, but who doesn’t drive the engine. As an
artist, I am an en—
thusiastic and rank  .
amateur with em- ' ‘ e v
phasis on the rank, ”
and as an amateur
I am an ardent wa-
ter colorist. There-
fore, title notwith-
standing, I feel
qualified to enter the
ring in good ama-
teur standing in de-
fense of water colors.
First let me say
that I applaud Mr.
Alger’s article, and
when I read it I
wanted to shout
“Amen,” “Halle—
lujah,” and “Glory
Be” to everything i.
he said except his ‘i‘ '
comments about g 
water colors, espe-  " I
cially this one—  ‘i
“only an expert who *
knows exactly what
he is doing should be per-

mitted to use water colors
at all.”

To infer that all the fun,
all the vivid adventure to be
found in painting, can come to amateurs only
through the medium of oils is like saying a new
driver can get to the next town only by driving a
Ford. Painting, as a rich, satisfying experience is
all that Mr. Alger claims and more—it is vitamins
for the vitiated, bromides for the bombastic, an
antidote for age, and it shuts out worries as

.  u
'p' o Westmsewvmwwws; -:-=-;- 

398

By CHESTER G. MARSH
Arts and Crafts Adviser

Program Division. Girl Scouts

effectively as the most horrific
“who-dun-it.”

I have two friends, both like
Mr. Churchill and myself, above
forty, who make stunning pencil sketches with the
same exultant satisfaction that Mr. Alger finds in
oils. Some of our girls in _a southern camp made
paints out of the different colored clays found on
the camp site. Dried, powdered and mixed with
honey and gum arabic, some beautiful clear colors
were obtained, and
the girls had a won-
derful time painting
with them.

Some years ago
w h e n I b e g a n
sketching, I was
told to work in oils
and stay away from
water colors. All the
arguments advanc-
ed by Mr. Alger
were given to me:
too difficult —— no
corrections possible
——-they’re either too
wet or too dry--in

 

  

ll
fact I was assured,
and I was con-l
vinced, that they'

  
 

   

{ :"""" .-:=""".-r-.   -"""'-‘;:-.,;.;.-'  . .r..  4  .. ,.-- r .   

To make the paint used for this water
color. Girl Scouts in Greensboro. North
Carolina. mixed gum arabic. honey. and
water with clay of different colors

wouldn’t work and
I couldn’t do them.
So I didn’t.

I painted in oils '
and I loved it. I
carried a big sketch
box, a canvas, and
a collapsible camp stool up-
hill and down dale. I left oily
paint—smeared rags tucked
tidily under boulders all over:
the country. side and sea-
shore. I painted barns, boats, sand dunes, and hay:
stacks. It wasn’t always easy to tell which was
which. I came back from vacations triumphantly
laden with wet canvases separated by judiciously
placed corks.

That was all right so long as I confined my
painting orgies to vacations and week ends—but

RECREATION

 

WHAT ABOUT WATER COLORS? 399

the matter didn’t stop there.
I had such a good time I
wanted to paint whenever I
had a free moment. Our
apartment was small and
one member of the family
didn’t like the odor of tur-
f pentine———so inside work was
out. I either had to take to
the great open spaces or not
lpaint. I had to .make a
l choice—either be a Sunday
l painter in every sense of the.
-word, or change my medium. I chose to change
. my medium.

 

I approached water colors timorously, bonght a
' book, a box of paints, two brushes and a block of
l r‘ough paper.

Listen—don’t ever let anyone tell you that
water color is only for experts. Really, I mean
it! It is a pushover. After my first attempt the

‘world was mine. I gave away my sketch box, my
collapsible camp stool, my canvas stretchers, and
I gloried in a new freedom.

‘ I can now paint at any time, in any place—still
ife in our own apartment; while waiting for

trains in far~off cities or

. visiting camps; from a park ;

l
i.
l:

 

 

m. F,  ,W"H ’

OVEMBER 1944

I.“

We gave Mrs. Marsh a preview of the
article by Mr. Alger. She read it, found it
delightful—as we know all our readers will
—and applauded it enthusiastically. There
was. however. one statement with which she
could not agree! So we' persuaded her to
put in writing the reasons for her differ—
ence of opinion. Here they are. If, after
reading the two articles. you have the urge
to paintI you may have the comfortable
feeling that whether you use oils or water
colorsI you're on the right track!

 

Painting of an old barn in Winchester. New
Hampshire, made by the author on vacation

bench; in a canoe.“ I even
made a sketch while leaning
up against a telephone pole
in Talullah, Louisiana, on
Market Day. I’d never
heard of the place but had
to change buses there on my
way to Vicksburg in Hood
time, and the bus was late.
There was an old white pil-
lared, colonial house op—
posite the bus station. Be—
lieve it or not, I didn’t care
when the bus arrived!

I have grown positively brazen about it-——-—I
paint everywhere at any time and I have made
many interesting friends because of it. And I have
had many interesting adventures. A landslide held
up our train in Gore Canyon, Colorado, for seven
hours. It was a grand chance to paint, and I
loaned paper and brushes to three passengers who
had a wonderful initiation to a new interest. In
Little Rock, Arkansas, I was stranded all night
waiting for a train. Four soldiers and a WAC
tried their hand at water color with me with sur—
prising results. I still get letters from them.

Water colors need not be

(Continued on page 443)

Post-College Recreation

YRACUSE UNIVERSITY has a new
S approach to physical educa—

tion. The directors of physical education
courses for men and women have set up a pro—-
gram which aims at a fuller enjoyment of life
beyond the college years. Things that college boys
and girls can do after they get out of college;
skills that may be continued on down through the
years; sports that may contribute to their physical
well-being and consequent good health; recreation
that will provide an outlet for leisure time use;
knowledge that will enrich their lives and that may
be passed down through them to others—these
are all integral factors in the program. So far,
thEre are four such opportunities open to Syra-
cuse students: ski school, winter carnival, outing
club, and outdoor leadership training.

Not only skilled skiers but all students who.

wish to learn how to ski may participate in the
skiing activities. The program is particularly ap-
pealing to students from the south who have never
seen a pair of skis, let alone been on them. Such
students get just as
much attention as the

By MARY Z. CASETY

A trio of Ca mpcraft majors from Syracuse University

squad of A skiers who compete in
ski meets.

The ski school has afternoon and evening classes.
Beginners are classed together and are taught how
to put on skis and how to' walk on them. Then
they must learn how to fall, for. safety principles
are the main concern of the program. The students
who have had some experience on skis are given
a test run down a gentle slope and are classified
into A, B, and C groups according to the skill they
show in the testing. They, too, must take instruc-
tion in how to fall. All the students are taught
how to judge the speed of the snow and how to
adjust skis and their own behavior to it. There
are three groups of students, one of women, one of
men, one——-—the evening class——-—of men and women.
Each group is divided into four squads. Their total
number of ski hours runs into staggering figures.
Yet, accidents almost never occur.

Year after year members of the A squad (and
sometimes even of the B or C squads) have car-
ried off collegiate meet honors. However, the chief .
aim of the training is.-
not to make champions.

enjoy the view from the top of Silver Lake Mountain I

. . ' O '
" . . , .
" a .n
)

 

400 RECREATION

POST-COLLEGE RECREATION 401

x but to make all members of the class, from begin-
ners on, good skiers. The goal is long range—to
give these boys and girls the basic skills so that

-they may continue the sport with pleasure and
finesse—and safety—when their college days are

over.

1

Skating is added to skiing for the winter car- '

. nival program. Students are trained in ballet
* groups on skates and as individual and figure
‘ skaters. Competing events are graded on skills so
' that all those who Wish to participate may do so,
in both skating and skiing categories. These are
strictly winter'events, even though some of the ski
,classes have been conducted on straw covered
'slopes on sunny, warm days in fall or early winter.
The outing club program comes between winter

! sports and summer camping. Bicycle trips, nature
.lpre walks, camping trips, and just plain hikes,
,each with its incidental training, make up the pro-
. gram. Some day this inbetween fall and spring
, program may include tennis and golfing, not for
lthe tennis and golf teams, but for all those who
‘ wish to acquire these skills, to learn the rules of

a new sport.

The summer camping program centers about
Tanager Lodge on upper Chateaugay Lake in the
Adirondacks. Merrill is the post ofFlce, but it is a
f three mile run across the lake to the nearest
) 1amlet. Early every June a busload of prOSpective
amp counselors, who have already taken a theory
ourse in camp training and a full semester’s work
n camp fundamentals, alight at the station, get
nto boats and are taken over to Tanager Lodge.
I he main house is situated on a promentory which
xtends out into the lake, with narrow bays on
ither side. There is an intirmary and a dining

11, and smaller dormitories or sleeping tents as
he students prefer.

 

 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

Many school programs may have a week-end or

en a week’s conference in their physical educa-

n program. Syracuse University’s course runs
twenty—three days.

Students do not sign up for all classes, but for r

e major, in campcraft, waterfront, or nature

. e. In campcraft they learn how to cook out—of-
ors, to pitch tents and make shelters. They take

l veral canoe trips, one of them overnight. They
I (1 out what “portage” really means. They learn
r w to make use of beaver dams, how to pick out
' spot for the night, how to go through a forest,
w to follow a trail through balsams—and how

do it all with safety, safety for themselves and

CJOVEMBER 1944

 

 

When you tall—and of course you will—be
sure to do it correctly and with as little harm
to yourself as is humanly possible! Women
skiers at Syracuse are taught how not to fall
(see photograph above)I as well as how to do
it properlyI as shown in the picture below

 

for the.forest. Taking care of many pets which
are acquired every season, whether a bird with a
broken wing or a motherless racoon, is merely- in-
cidental.

Development of the “seeing eye” is the aim of
the nature lore major in which counselors are
taught how to interest people in the out-of—doors,
how to conduct hikes, how to plan games, super-
v1se group activities, do handcraft. The shop
course ranges from the cutting of black ash splints,
pounding them out and weaving baskets to repair-
ing canoes with birch bark and no nails, making“
skis and canoe paddles.

The waterfront course is exactly that—swim-.

ming, rowing, canoeing, and sailing. It is con-
(Continued on page 438)

The Hanging of the Greens

is used :
MUSIC PRELUDE

THE HOLY NIGHT

FOR THIS CEREMONIAL the following program

A Masque with Old French Christmas Songs

When “CHRISTUS NATUS EST,” the cock flappeth
his wings, the ass twirleth one ear, the ox noddeth
his head, and they do all (as hath been foretold)
speak aloud. Then do three angels, chanting, dis-
close the little shed wherein are seen Mary and
Joseph sitting and betwixt them the Holy Child,
and Mary singeth soft. Then do Three Shepherds
draw near, wondering and Three Wise Men do
kneel and lay their treasures by the Child.

Then is Joseph suddenly warned to make ready
to liee with the young Child and his mother into
Egypt. Then do the cock, the raven and all the
company of angels and shepherds, together with
the audience, sing with a loud voice, “Adeste
Fideles.”

ADESTE FIDELES
Sung by everyone. First stanza to be sung in
Latin.

PROCESSION BEARING GREENS
DECK THE HALL
Sung by everyone.
SPIRIT OF JOY GIVES A TASK TO EACH
DECORATING THE HOUSE
By all those present.

COMING OF THE VVAITS
BRINGING IN YULE LOG
YULE LOG CAROL

Sung by everyone. .

LIGHTING THE FIRE
Leader: In all ages the fire has been the center
of family life. So we
gather today, the family

Kneel reverently, and thankful be,

For God’s unfailing charity,

And on the ascending fiame inspire

A little prayer, that shall upbear

The incense of your thankfulness

For this sweet grace of warmth and light.
For here again is sacrifice for your delight.”*

Leader: As fire kindles fire,
People: So life inspires life.

Unison: Thus shall his Kingdom come.
May there burn brightly tonight
In each heart a light
That shall welcome the Christ—child home.

A PRAYER FOR THIS HOUSE

SELECTED LINES FROM “FIRST FIRE OF WINTER”
By Abbie Graham

LIGHTING OF THE CHRISTMAS CANDLES
CAROLS

Behind the Scenes

For several years the printed program of Wau-
sau’s festival within covers of heavenly blue and
Shining silver has been one of our most treasured
Christmas greetings. Knowing this program to be
the outgrowth of a membership celebration of sev-
eral years’ standing, we asked the Wausau Asso-
ciation to Share its experience through the W omans
Press with particular reference to such Associa-
tions as might not yet have developed a ceremony
of their own making. The general secretary, Alma
Blandin, takes us behind the scenes and tells us in
the order of the above program how the festival
came to be. '

Music Prelude

For the music prelude we use records on our

fine victrola and have grown
to like the effect better than

of the Young Women’s
Christian Association,
to kindle anew the
blessed spirit which per-
vades this, our Asso-
ciation home, and to
dedicate anew this
building to friendliness,
beauty and love.

Reader: “Kneel always
as you light a fire.

402

In publishing this ceremonial we are not
offering readers of RECREATION something
new. "The Hanging of the Givreens'I was
used for several years at the annual Christ-
mas program of the Y.W.C.A. in WausauI
Wisconsin. It was reprinted in the National
Recreation Association's Christmas Book
from the November I936 issue of The
Womans Press. lt hasI howeverl proved so
beautiful a part of the Christmas program
wherever presented that we are reprinting it
in this. the Christmas number of RECREATION.

singing. It is quieter and
leSS confusing while people
are gathering; we include
such records as the “Shep—
herd’s Music” from Bach’s
“Christmas Oratorio’.’ played

 

*From “Sacrament of Fire," pub-
lished in The Vision Splendid by
John Oxenham. Copyrighted by
Doubleday, Doran and Company.
Inc., New York City. Reprinted by
permission of the estate of John
Oxenham.

RECREATION

 

THE HANGING OF THE GREENS

 

by the Philadelphia Orchestra, “The First Nowell”
by the Flonzaley Quartet, and a group of old carols
‘by the English Singers: “The Holly and the Ivy,”
“Good Christian Men, Rejoice,” “Gloria in Ex—

celsis Deo” and others.

The Holy Night

(by Florence Converse and Kate Stearns Page, G.
Schirmer, Inc., 3 East 43rd Street, New York City.

$.75.)

“And now beginneth the masque to play,” on a
stage bathed only in blue light with shepherds sing-
ing “King David was a shepherd lad.” The'cast
for the masque is drawn from both grade and high
school groups. The girls are growing up in the
tradition of the festival and consider it a great
honor to be chosen. We use only one angel voice
for the Alleluia and the Chant but it is a perfect
voice. Three angels wearing soft pink and blue
robes—not white——are elevated on steps back of
the stage and visible through the center door
against a drop of deep blue. The costumes, ac-
cumulated over a period of years, and the lanterns
carried by the waits were all made in the Associa—
tion. The papier-maché heads of the Ox and Ass
are wonderful creations, that of the Ox having a
most benign expression.

Adeste Fideles

Adeste, fideles, laeti triumphantes,
Venite, venite in Bethlehem;
N atum videte regem angelorum:
Venite, adoremus,
Venite, adoremus,
Venite, adoremus Dominum.

Procession Bearing Greens

The way our decorations are procured may be
of particular interest to those of you far removed

NOVEMBER 1944

'-

Print by Gedge Harmon

403

from a northern country. Each year two
lumberjacks with the crew of the Northern
Logging Company, where some of our busi—
ness girls are employed, get the lovely spruce
boughs with cones. Last year “Speeder Bill”
snowshoed through eight miles of woods car—
rying two great sacks of sprays to the rail-
road. From there they were picked up by one
of the men from the mill and brought to our
door. Company trucks are pressed into ser--
vice if any of us go for greens. We have a
greens shop in the Association where many
people work making wreaths and arranging
sprays.

 

Deck the Halls with Boughs of Holly

This is included in many carol collections.

Spirit of Joy

I. I am the spirit of joy!
Here at the Christmas tide,
Where hearts are united,

I come to abide.

Let your candles be lighted,
Your holly be hung,

Your hearth-fire :be merry,
Your carols be sung!

II. In this of all houses
The Christ-child will lbide;
Make room for his coming;
Throw the door wide! '
Hang ye, greens for his welcome,
Trim gain your tree,
Put wreaths in your windows,
Follow me! Follow me!

Coming of the Waits

For the past three years the Waits have been
girls not yet employed and just out of high school.
Although they do not actually appear until this
point in the "program, they help with the singing
from back stage during the masque. Costumed
and carrying lighted lanterns, the Waits enter
singing “Here we come a—carolling” (found in
many carol collections). They sit on the steps near

the piano and lead the group singing whenever it
occurs.

The Yule Log

Pages bring in the Yule log and place it on the
fire to the accompaniment of “Come bring with a
noise” (known as “The Yule Log Procession” in
No. 607 of the New Beacon Octave, available for
$.15 from Silver Burdett Company, 45 East 17th
Street, New York City). The log is gaily bedecked
with sprigs of balsam and pine. Concealed in the

404

boughs are tiny bags of fairy fuel to color the flame.

Our county park commissioner furnishes the log.
Months ahead he is on the watch for a proper one
so that it can be drying out and seasoning for burn—
ing. Our Yule log for this year has been in the

basement over twelve months.

Lighting the Fire

The responses in this section, together with the
poem “Spirit of Joy,” are from a Hanging of the
Greens ceremony published in the December 1924
W omans Press. (Consult in library.)

Prayer for This House

A poem beginning “May nothing evil cross this
door” is found in This Singing W orld by Louis
Untermeyer, published by Harcourt, Brace and
Company, 383 Madison Avenue, New York City.
$3.00.

Abbie Graham’s “The First Fire of Winter” is
in her C eremonials of Common Days, available for
$1.00 from The Womans Press, 600 Lexington

Avenue, New York City.

Lighting the Christmas Candles

Reader: We’ll touch the taper in our hearts
To the flame of the advent star

And set the light to burn a path
Where the shadowed places are.
And some who never lift their eyes
To the star that floods the night
May find their way to Bethlehem

By our friendly taper’s light.

Following the reading of the poem two pages,
dressed in blue suits and blue capes dotted with
silver stars and wearing bands of silver in their
hair, enter carrying each a tall lighted candle.
With their candles they light alternately the tapers
of two seven—branched candlesticks on either side
of the fireplace while the following .words of ap-
preciation are read by the leader. (The lighting

is timed exactly to the reading.)

a

We light a candle for the sheer delight of tasting once
more the fresh crisp ibreath of winter in the air.

We light a candle for the pure white beauty of the
fresh-fallen snow.

We light a candle for the light of wonder and surprise
in children’s eyes as they greet Christmas morn.

We light a candle for the sound of children’s voices
carolling sweet and clear.

We light a candle for the tinkling Ibells of Christmas
cheer.

We light a candle for the snow-crowned lights of city
streets that guide us by their friendly glow.

We light a candle for the dancing flames and warmth
of *blazing hearth-log.

THE HANGING OF THE GREENS

 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
 

We light a candle for the delicate tracery of flowers
and ferns that fairies of the night paint on our

window-pane.

We light a candle for the winter winds that sing their
way through tall stately pines.

We light a candle for the silhouette of bare trees
against a gray and wintry sky.

We light a candle for the fragrance of pine and balsam
brought from forest depths to grace our homes.

We light a candle for the million twinkling stars that
stud the velvet sky of night.

We light a candle for the winter moon, the gentle queen
of night, who wears a silver robe and crown of light.

We light a candle for the peace and love within the
homes where the Christ-child 'has entered in.

Leader: The symbolic shining lights of all these
candles we now gather into the flame of the Asso-
ciation’s candle. May its radiance find in our
hearts a response to the meaning of Christmas.
Each day at dusk, throughout this festive season, it
shall be lighted to remind us by its holy light that
the Christ-child has entered here. To the presi-
dents of clubs in this Association I give the respon-
sibility of seeing that this candle is lighted each
night at dusk so .that its golden flame shall bear a
friendly greeting from our hall to all who pass this
way. Will you bear it now to its place?

Reader: To light a candle in a darkened room

And call to |be
These flames of light
For our delight
Is radiant joy.

Who sends a pointed flame into the night
For clear sight

Of anyone

Has thus begun

A miracle.

And those who sit beside a candle’s glow
May never go

In poverty

For rich is he

In golden light.

This litany has been built up around interesting
bits of beauty which girls of all groups have col-
lected over a long period. When rearranged by
our Young Women’s Council for final form the
girls’ own phrases were used as much as possible
and a definite effort made to give rhythm and
musical feeling to this section. The two poems
were taken from back issues of- the Bookshelf. Forl
several years we have neither added to nor made'
changes in this part of the ceremony, although each:
year following the festival a committee meets to
discuss possible ways of improving it. We have

(Continued on page 439)
' RECREATION

 

OlNG THINGS TOGETHER with the people you

know best has always been fun. Once upon

a time that was a foregone conclusion. It
didn’t even need to be mentioned because it was
just taken for granted as part of the whole normal
scheme of life. The family, with a few neighbors
maybe, made their fun together because they en-
joyed the same things. Somehow, somewhere
along the years we have forgotten that. It has
seemed increasingly hard to get Mother and Dad,
Sis and “that pest” Junior, Aunt Emily and Sally,
aged six, to sit down together in the same place
at the same time and have fun over a common
project. It has been too easy to go off somewhere
else and find some other sort of entertainment. It
has been ’too hard to find an interest that would
unify instead of divide.

Well, it’s high time we put more thought and
effort into knowing the Whole family as a group,
emphasizing the similarities of our kinship instead
of those individual differences that tend to separ-
ate us from one another. Here is a way to start.

The families that can’t “get together” over
Christmas are few and far between. Most family
groups have their own private Christmas customs
and traditions that are (or should be) dragged out
each year and observed and enjoyed together. So
Christmas is a good place to start doing things to-

NOVEMBER 1944

Decorations by the Family

 

If you have forgotten how to use paper and
berries and fruit on your Christmas treeI or if
you grew up in an era which never knew a
home-decorated treeI you will find directions
for making chains, strings of popcornI balls.
and other decorations as well in a reprint from
the November I942 issue of RECREATION en;
titled Christmas Novelties for Everyone,
which is available from the National Recrea-

tion Association at ten cents.

 

gether—against-a well-loved familiar background
of past experience.

There’s a special reason why this Christmas of
1944 is a good time to start a new Christmas tra-
dition, the tradition of making things together.
Reports from the shopping front don’t look very
rosy for Christmas decorations, 1944. Those last
minute excursions on Christmas eve to’pick up a
couple of reindeer for the door-wreath, or red and
blue balls for the tree (the cat ate up last year’s
red ones and little Sally just couldn’t keep her
hands off the blue jobs) just aren’t going to be
possible. Reindeer take a special kind of crafts-
manship being put to other uses now. Those balls
were made in Japan and at the moment we have
other business with those islands? Even ’if you
obey all the warnings and-do your Christmas
shopping early, the odds are against your finding
in the stores the things you will want and need.

The easy thing to do is to decide to give up the
tree this year, and the wreath on the door as well.
The tree has always been a headache and you’ve
only kept the custom upfor the sake of the chil—
dren. But, think carefully. If you do that won’t
there be an emptiness, come Christmas morning—
for you as' well as for the youngsters? Your door
will look kind of bare without some decOration to
welcome your friends with gaiety and to tell the
passing stranger that Christmas is being kept
within. And the family will feel cheated if the
house and the Christmas table wear just ordinary
dress. After all, in spite of battle, murder and
sudden death, war and separation, Christmas is
special and demands a special garb. The family
together can take the hurdle by making all the
decorations that could possibly be needed.

405

406 DECORATIONS BY THE FAMILY

Materials No Problem!

What are you going to do about materials?
That’s an easy one. Use what you can get plus a
little irfgenuity. After all it hasn’t been so very
many years ago that nobody did anything else!
You will be glad when the day comes that you
went to the trouble. There will be less trouble if

you do some planning ahead of time. Set aside
special times for the whole family to get together

.with scissors, and paste pot, paper and paint.
Plan an excursion to the nearest woods or fields

to collect the materials that grow there. With
everybody picking there will soon be enough.

Now, what substitutes can you use? You can
probably dig back in your memory (or in the
memory of your elderly neighbor next door) and
[ind bits and pieces of lore stored from Christ-
mases past and gone. Here are a few suggestions
to start the ball a-rolling:

Decorate your tree with ‘paper chains (colored
paper, if you please !) and cranberry strings, pop-
corn balls and glazed apples, cornuc0pias and
candy canes, gingerbread boys and gingerbread
girls, and, for the top, a Clothespin angel.

Clothespin Angel

Here is the way you go about fashioning an
angel from a Clothespin: Start % ” from the open
end of your Clothespin and wrap and paste pink
crepe paper %” wide to within 1% ” of the end.
Cut the angel’s wings, halo and arms according to
the pattern from letter paper. Paste blue crepe

 

 

paper to both sides of the wings, and peach crepe
paper to both sides of the arms and halo. Decorate
the wings and halo with gold star seals. Paste
center of the wings to the back of the clotheSpin.
Paste the arms in place so that they are holding a
candle made of a strip of letter paper %” x I” and
topped with a star seal. Paint features on knob
of the Clothespin and tie a white bow around the
neck leaving ends long enough to tie on the tree.

Winter Berries a Boon

The winter berries are a boon to harassed dec-
orators. Mountain ash, hawthorne, thorn apple,
bittersweet, bayberry, cedar berries, high bush
cranberries, barberry—the very names are redolent
of millions of Christmases—are colorful and can be
prepared easily to last through the Christmas sea-
son. Give the berries a coat of shellac (or a rea-
sonable facsimile in these war times) and thread
them on a string before they are dry if you plan to
make them into ornaments (bells, stars, garlands).
Or use them “as is” for table or mantle decora-

RECREATION

DECORATIONS BY THE FAMILY 407

tions. Bayberry is especially effective in the center
of a green-banked mantle flanked with red candles.
Burdocks (because they do stick together) can
be made into effective ornaments. Go “modernis-
tic” with them if you have the urge. Red enamel
or gilt paint will do wonders for the “docks.” Use
your imagination, a dash of paint, and an end of
ribbon, on pine cones, milkweed pods, small leaves
and branches, nuts of all kinds. They make right
handsome ornaments for the tree or table.

Peanuts Aplenty

Peanuts in the shell are readily available this
year. Buy them by the pound for Christmas tree
decorations. Because, just see what you can do
with them. Santa Clauses, angels, skiers, gilt and
silver chains, pert little girls ready for a Christ-
mas whirl will make an unusual and endlessly
amusing splash on your tree. You will need a
spool or two of buttonhole thread, a big darning
needle, finger paint and nail polish, gold and silver
radiator paint, cotton and scraps of paper or cloth,
yarn or ribbon to effect this metamorphosis from
“gubber” to ornament. The drawings will give you
an. idea how it’s done. String the peanuts together
before you paint them. The unpainted shells will
be easier to pierce. If you want gold and silver
peanut chains, mix up your paint in a shallow tray
or a pie tin and pull the strung peanuts through
the mixture. Be sure to swish them around a bit
so there won’t be any unpainted spots! If you
want to be really fancy with your figures, you can
do a little costume research and deveIOp a whole
set of characters—the Cratchit family and Scrooge
for instance, or a group of Polish or Czech peas-
ants in native dress, or a peanut creche.

For the Front Door

For that Christmas welcome on the front door
there is nothing lovlier or more in keeping with
the spirit of the season —American style—,——than
plain old pine boughs. They don’t have to be
“snitched” on the dark of the moon from your
neighbor’s long-leaf pine or Norway spruce, either!
Scrub pine or bull pine (or for that matter mag—
nolia leaves or any other dark “greenery”) is
every bit as good. With a hunk of green for back-
ground you can go to town with elaborating ideas.
Every member of the family will probably think
up a different angle for putting color into the
picture. In fact you may find yourself with more
ideas than doors. Don’t let that bother you. A

NOVEMBER 1944

decoration for the door will make a welcome
Christmas remembrance to your acquaintances
who have less ingenuity than you and your family
—or who are just plain lazy. Only, if you’re plan—
ning such a contribution yOu’d better warn the
recipients in advance so they won’t try to save
money on Uncle Bill’s necktie to pay for a store-
bought wreath! You can dress up the green back-
ground with pine cones or seed pods or gourds
either in their natural state or embellished with
paint. Use poster paints. Or you can do it the
French way with fruits. Lady apples and kum-
quats are especially effective. Cedar berries—if
you live in cedar country—or bayberries, mixed
with pine are simple and very lovely. Stick a
piece of red ribbon (or several strands of heavy
wool braided together) where most needed in a
smart and jaunty bow—and hang conspicuously.
Cheap, effective, non-rationed, and fun for the
whole family to- work on.

The list of Christmas decorations is endless. So
go to it, family! You can feast all five of your
senses while you’re about it. Put a piece of cedar —
on the radiator where it will give fragrance to the
whole house, a cookie jar on the table where every-
one can reach it, and make plenty of popcorn for
tummies as well as for decorations. Your eyes will
be filled to satisfaction with colors and shapes and
your fingers will rejoice in the feel of living ma-
terials. Your ears? That’s simple. In the words
of the old carol, “Carol, Brothers, Carol.” Sing in-
dividually and collectively. Sing all, the carols
everybody knows. There’s nothing like the Christ-
mas spirit for wiping the cobwebs out of your soul
and the essence of the Christmas spirit is having
fun, as a family, together.

Other ideas promoting conservation as well as
Christmas cheer come from Dr. and Mrs. Rountree
of San Angelo, Texas, who write that since they
live in the land of cacti and sand they have de-
cided to make their Christmas tree a cactus, which
they will silver and place in a bucket of sand.
Old Christmas decorations will be cleaned and
repainted, and hung on colored toothpicks in place
of the thorns. Remnants of gay wallpaper will be
used as wrappings for presents.

Penny postcards, the Rountrees suggest, may be
used to carry Christmas greeetings. “If they are
original in fashion, your friends will not care if
the meter or rhyme is faulty.”

Pattern for Fun

place where the kids
could meet—you like to

be where the other guys are.
The Army took over the play
field and the field house and
that spoiled our fun at the
park. There’s nothing to do
but go to a show. No matter
how swell the show is, you
still want to see the fellows.”
That was the answer that
Chad gave when the father of one of his pals took
him aside with four other fine neighborhood boys
and urged them never to be caught again in a
compromising position where there might even
be a suspicion of “fuzzy thinking.” That had hap-
pened to them when they were found with a group
of older people who had been drinking. All of the
boys appreciated the good advice and asked for

help in providing some form of constructive rec—
reation. '

“I F THERE was only some

One of the mothers, overhearing the conversa—
tion and feeling that nothing is too hard to try if
it means fine manhood, took the incident as a
personal challenge to each parent to provide a
physical and material background for fellowship
among the youngsters of the community.

First of all, she tried to picture in her own mind
what the actual requirements of such a challenge
were. It meant warmth, cheer, friendliness and
smart activity. It meant a place modern and
“grown-up” and in style, “canteen” in the best
sense of the word—a spot where all were welcome
and the “cup overfloweth”——a spot where the
youths themselves were to carry out the plans for
the fun and the.mothers and dads were to super-
vise by pitching in and helping—cooking and dish
washing—not standing around as chaperones with
an eagle eye. She called together a group of four
interested mothers, and they formulated the gen-
eral outline of the Teen Canteen.

The presentation of the idea had a perfect set-

ting, which no doubt made all the difference be-
tween success and failure. The high school prin-

cipal, feeling keenly the natural influence of his
position in the community, called together repre-
sentatives of the most influential groups in the

408

By RUTH JORDAN PETERSON

Mrs. Peterson is one of the assistant
women supervisors at the Boeing Aircraft
Company. She has long been associated
with the recreation program in Seattle,
having worked before the war as a vol-
unteer in the recreation agencies of the
city. She is said to have established
the first teen canteen in the West.

community, presented the
problem, explained the need
of parental and social respon-
sibility, and together they
felt the pulse of youth. They
looked for the particular
needs of youth in that par-
ticular location.

The Teen Canteen sug-
gestion was broadly outlined.
On the whole it was en-
thusiastically received. Many
critical questions were asked, but all who were
there left the meeting feeling it was a good idea
and worth a try.

A committee consisting of a cross section of the
high school student body and community groups
was appointed, and met with the parental group.

When told of the Teen Canteen idea, they said
of it—

“Slick!”

“There should be more community interest in

giving us the right kind of entertainment. If you
did that, you’d stop juvenile delinquency.”

“It takes more than community interest. It takes
giving the students the kind of entertainment they
want so it will be something they want to go to
and not just something their mothers send them

,,

to.

“W e’d like a place where we could meet, maybe
on Friday and Saturday nights, maybe on more
nights.' A place where we could meet, sit and talk,
play games or dance.”

As soon as the students accepted the idea, a
centrally located field house, which had not been
properly furnished and had not been used for a
year, was chosen as the setting for the project. The.
Park Department completely refurnished it in
clubhouse fashion, and the Park Department at-l
tendants were delighted to lit the idea -into their
activity program.

The local P.T.A. then stepped into the picture,
took the responsibility for the field house, and used
its influence in many ways for smooth community
contacts. The city P.T.A. president did the neces-
sary “coordinating,” and helped guide the young
people. '

RECREATION

With the physical setup guaranteed, the idea
became a most constructive project for youth.
Leaders were chosen, and committees were formed
which met and discussed and formulated stand-
ards of conduct and procedure. They conducted
polls to get opinions and suggestions and waded
through the formulation of a new idea by demo—
cratic procedure.

A set of standards and ruleS‘ was chosen after
many discussions involving such subjects as these:
hours, age limit, type of dress, rowdyism, bois-
trousness, smoking, liquor, and general plans for
entertainment.

The mothers and fathers stood by inconspicu-
ously but they provided mature leadership. The
committee of mothers provided the rationed food.
The fathers helped cook and wash dishes. Various
lmenus were tried, but the most successful eve-
nings seemed to be those when substantial food
like hot dogs or hamburgers was served. Always
I“cokes” were the favorite drink, but milk was
popular, too. Interesting to find was the fact that
very shortly all financial worries were over, for
Iafter the first few times there was enough profit in
the treasury to serve free food once in a while.

    

, The Teen Canteen was successful. It unified
.parental thinking and action. It was a project
,which kept a great number of children occupied
in mind and spirit. They formulated ideals and
'principles realistically, some for the first time in
.their lives, and they were forced to coordinate
jthem and see how important simple rules of con-
‘duct and policy are when they concern a large
.group. They were serious and sincere, and such
an experience was a broad step in character build-
ing in the life of each student who took an active
part. To formulate ideas is important. To have
a hand in working them out is stimulating and
acts as an incentive to future projects. It has a
'lasting effect.

The statistics proved how far reaching was the
effect of this successful project. In one year the
number of children using park facilities jumped
from 700 to 5,800. Heretofore, when programs
were planned for special occasions, it was difficult
to get an audience. Now the house is full of en-
thusiastic listeners. There has been evidence of
drinking at some of the other organized parties
held at the field house, but never a bit at the Teen
Canteen. The students themselves have met that

Issue and have earnestly enforced their own regu-
lation covering it.

NOVEMBER 1944

PATTERN FOR FUN 409

It used to be almost impossible to get parental
interest and attendance at parties as host and
hostess or even as good committee members. Now
parents are signed up in advance and fulfill their
obligations. The committee of mothers who so
earnestly tried to understand their growing chil—
dren has worked out a parental procedure which
meets the young people’s qualifications and
sanction.

The project has been so challenging and help-
ful that the Park Department representatives say:
“Please help us keep the Teen Canteen.” It has
been a .real stimulus to planned youth activity.
The possibilities of a project of this type are im—
measurable. Its influence could permeate all youth
activities in an entire community. It could be a
headquarters for such organizations as the Na—
tional Victory Corps group; it could be a training
center for Nurses Aide Classes and Red Cross
activities, hobby classes, handcraft—a meeting
place and discussion laboratory for youth in the
process of development. - ‘

There is a great adjustment ahead for our
youth. They must be mentally and physically
strong and active, and they will always need some
form of recreational and leisure guidance. Our
experiment has shown that the democratic way of
life is imbedded in our youth, and when the
chance presents itself, they act subconsciously in a
democratic manner. It is a process built into the
minds and lives of our youth which they under-
stand and work with naturally. They see it as a
practical ideal which may be used. as an instrument
for action. They also see that democracy is a
natural approach to meeting their responsibilities
and attaining their goals.

“The leaders of the future are now with us.
Some of them are hovering in alleys, with no
decent place to go. Others are finding expression
for inherent urges in devious and dangerous ways.
We cannot make good citizens out of bad con-
ditions ; we cannot expect wholesome character to
develop without culture. We shall not save our
American form of government, our own pattern
of life, solely by fighting strange beliefs and new
ways. For dissatisfaction is the breeding ground
of change. And youth’s life is at present unful-
filled. The scales of justice still balance. For if
youth’s fate is in our hands today, our own must
eventually rest upon the character and the train-

ing of the leaders of the future.”——Lena M.
Phillips.

NDUSTRIAL recreation? What’s

I new about that?

Howell Company, makers of
motion picture equipment and
electronic devices, have had a
recreation program since 1907, the year the com-
pany was founded. Increased employee opportuni-
ties and recreational developments have gone hand
in hand with a remarkable industrial growth. The
company has five offices, in Chicago, Washington,
New York, Hollywood, and London. The program
for employees in the Chicago area, while not
necessarily unique, is exceptional in the amount of

employee participation
the variety of activities.

Program Planning

About 3,000 people
take part in the pro-
gram. A full-time di-
rector of recreation and
two clerical secretaries
are kept busy the year
round helping plan em-
ployee activities
through employee com-
mittees. The commit-
tees, men and women,
represent a cross—section
of five plants in the
Chicago area. There are
three standing commit-
tees. A head committee
acts as a governing body
to control policies and
expenditures- Two sub-
committees, one for
sports, the other for
social affairs, work as
legislative bodies and
make formal recom-
mendations to the gov-
erning committee, with
direct responsibility for
carrying out, or having
carried out, the func-

tional work of the sub-

committees. The com-

410

By and for Employees

By FRANK L. HAAS

Larchmont Personnel Director
Bell 8: Howell Company
Chicago' Illinois

Bell &

and

Bowling for both men and women is high
in popularity during the winter season

 

club

mittees are responsible for the
ultimate success of every program
or of any part of it.
, Available Facilities
Chicago is rich in municipal recreation facilities.
salon,
cafeteria-auditorium.

The-’Bell & Howell Company uses all of them
fully. Parks, playgrounds, picnic groves, golf
courses, auditoriums, gymnasiums, beaches, party
rooms maintained by the city are suitable meeting
grounds for many Bell & Howell employees. In
addition the company has developed its own ten-
acre recreation park. Adjoining the park is the

new Lincolnwood plant with

rooms, movie
Here during off hours
in the morning and
afternoon as well as in
the evening and on Sun-
days, the employees {ind
tools of play conveni~
ently at hand.

Activities in the
Program

The program worked
out by the committees
under professional guid-
ance is, of course, com-
pletely voluntary. It is
well-planned, inter e s t-
ing, highly socialized,
and planning was not '
easy because the pro-
gram (for 3,000 people,
remember) must suit the
interests of both men
and women who vary in
age from 16 to 65. They
vary in taste almost as,
widely. Dances, theatri-l
cal productions, parties,
picnics, bowling, photo
contests, softball, horse-
shoe pitching, basket-
ball, golf, handball, and
beach outings —— some-

RECREATION

BY AND FOR EMPLOYEES 411

where in that list is some-
thing to appeal to each of
the Bell & Howell em-
ployees who participate in
the Chicago area’s ac—
tivities. The participants
are a high percentage of
the whole working group.

Employee services, too,
are cared for by the rec-
reation committee, which
looks after wedding gifts,
remembrances sent work-
: ers in hospitals, war bond
l and stamp drives, photo—
graphic and tilm service,
insurance and, pension in—
formation, and money for
incidental services.

  

The management has
realized for a long time
that morale is a particu—
lar state of mind. Unless
it is maintained at a high
level public relations,
safety, and personal ac-
complishment will suffer.
A healthy state of morale
adds to the employee’s
fulfillment of a rich and
complete life. A full and

 

satisfying recreation pro— Horseshoe pitching courts are in demand during
gram keeps morale high. When the workers them— the noon hour periods, and much interest cen-
selves have an important and integral part in plan- *9“ amund “‘9 inleldual Planl +°umamenls
ning the program, when they feel a responsibility

for its success, when they have a chance to evalu— popular of a1], and basketball.

ate, to criticize, and to change what seems bad, _..__.___

the program will be good and morale right up The Crosley Corporation sent two decks of play-

there where it ought to be. ing cards to each of the company’s employees in

. . . service. The following mes-
Possible winter act1V1t1es

for girls at the Massena, "It is obviously impossible to set up a
New York, plant of the standard recreation program for industrial

workers. The man who spends his free time )‘011 USCd t0 WOTk With 115,
hunting or fishing does not understand his and that you are now fight—
neighbor's delight in bowling. The woman ing for us, You have been
whose chief recreation is playing bridge or away for a long time now
knitting lifts an eyebrow at her neighbor's
obsession for swimming or badminton. while
the man who collects stamps is very likely

to think his friend a little queer for put-

sage accompanied the gift:
“VVe’re not forgetting that

Aluminum Company of
America include skating
parties, hockey or broom
ball games, and an ice car-
nival, which is the out-
standing event of the win-
ter program. Interest in

and we’ve missed you. . . .
A very Merry Christmas
to you wherever you are,

Skiing is keen- Among the ting his time and effort into playing soft- and our sincerest WiSheS
l most popular of the indoor ball."—From Recreation for Workers, is- that you may Spend neXt
, sports are bowling, most sued bythe National Recreation Association. Christmas at home.”

NOVEMBER 1944

uDo Touch” Museums

HE GEFFRYE Mu—
Tseum in Shoreditch,

London, had “Don’t
Touch” written in three;
inch thick dust all over
it!

Local school children
were encouraged to make periodic visits to it, and
groups of reverent, awe—inspired, rather bored
youngsters made a “duty call” every six months.
They saw the Tudor Room, the Chippendale
Room, the Early Victorian Room. They looked,
listened—eand forgot.

Then, about three years ago, a young married
woman—Molly Harrisonmwas appointed acting
curator of the Museum, and with her arrival in

the story all preconceived ideas of a museum must -

leave your head. Everything started to change,
except Shoreditch, which offered the rising gen-
eration its brightest gifts—the cinema, the streets
to play in, and school with a crammed curriculum.

Down at the Geffrye Museum the “Don’t
Touch” law was dropped. The children were en-
couraged to use their Museum and were taught
how to handle the precious heritages of history.
They' started to acquire the habit of “dropping in"
on their way home from school. There was a new
atmosphere of enjoyment about the place, and
there were new ideas for them to explore and
play with.

Now so many children come to the Geffrye
Museum in holiday time that the problem is where
to put them all. There are often as many as 250
girls and boys visiting the place in a day. They
play, paint, weave on hand looms, listen to the
gramophone, admire the “brass rubbing” from the
city churches. In summer they play in the garden
with its plane trees and bright petunias, and on
the hottest days of all, the garden hose turns itself
into a shower.

“Can we play one of your special games?” A
member of the staff hands out pencils and large
pieces of ruled paper. A small group of children
start off, others join. The Museum was really
coming to life.

“I’m going to choose Elizabeth—No! Charles.
No! Elizabeth, she’s easier_to draw.” So, up
against the typewritten words at the top of the

412

By ROSE MARY SANDS

Museums in England. as in our own
country. are being "dusted off." and

"Don't Touch" signs are disappearing

2

page, “These people. . .’
Mary, aged nine, drew
the outline of a farthin—
galed lady of the 15th
century. Then came the
fun. Below the drawing
it said: “These pe0ple«
sat on . . .”, “These people rode in . . .”, and so
on through all manner of activities of food, fur—
nishing, and sport. The game was to fill in—in.
outline and crayon—the kind of chair, house,1
wagon, wood to fit the particular, period. The!
game was competitive.

‘Before the war, Saturdays weren't so bad for
the school children. Mother was cooking, father
would be home in the afternoon. Now father is
in the Navy and mother is in munitions, and
young Harry, aged eleven, has to amuse himself.
What’s first? First the rations to buy, the fire to

light, the potatoes to peel, and then the Museum
at eleven sharp. '

Harry rushes off to learn pottery, weaving,|
drawing, modeling. He spends every Saturday‘
morning at the Geffrye Museum taking turns
about with handcrafts. Most of his school friends
are there, too. Mary has just finished making a‘
papier-maché puppet’s head. It is a fearsome witch
with nose and chin meeting. She designed and
colored it herself, and now it has to be dressed in
scraps of cotton and wool, with black hair and a
high hat. Next week there is to be the first re-
hearsal for the puppet show. Mary is going to
work her witch and be its voice, and Harry is
stage directing and being three characters and the
noises Off l

Shoreditch is a part of London which has
thousands of houses to the square mile . . . narrow
streets, alleys, backyards. It is a grey, working'
class district, huge areas of which have been laid
flat by- bombs and fire. After the war there is noi
doubt that well—planned flats, parks and schools.
will be built there, but nevertheless, if only because
twenty shillings have to do the work of thirty
down in this East borough, the lives, recreations, .
and outlook of those living there will always be
very restricted.

It is against that general background that this
experiment in education is being made. It is not

RECREATION

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   

a new theory in how to teach; it is an experiment
in how to live. The material is the school child;
the test tube, the Museum. ,
Sir Robert Geffrye of the Ironmongers Com—
pany built a fine, broad brick house in the 18th
century and endowed it as an almshouse for the
poor. After his death the London County Council
acquired a collection of antiques. These were
eventually «housed in Sir Robert’s empty alms-
house, and the Geffrye Museum became just an-
other museum on the long list which visitors to
London visited and which Londoners overlooked!
Today it is playing a big part, culturally and
irocationally, in the life of the district.
. Some of the handcraft lessons are held in the
Big Halln—one whole side of the Museum—
which is left free for exhibitions. These exhibi-
tions are the joy and delight of the school chil-
iren. They never know what is coming next, and
ach new one seems to be even better than the
st. They have seen the embroidery exhibition of
1d and new work; they’ve seen the housing ex-
ibition, but the favorite is always work done by
ther children of their age. They have seen paint-
. gs and drawings by American school children
nd work sent over from'Turkey. The very latest
hibition of all—prepared by the top class of a
‘ cal school—showed man’s tight and victory over
vironment. This turned out to be so good that
was thought worthy of a three weeks’ show at
effrye. Young Shoreditch was thrilled and even
' 1spired to try its hand
the same idea.
Groups of children
andered around look—
1g, comparing, discuss-
ig. They got the thread
.13 the idea and spent
long hours trying to find
mistake in the chil-
ren’s drawings and
odels and charts.
ou’ve got that wrong,
, u should have given
t at cart rubber wheels.”
he challenge was accept—
. “Rubber wasn’t dis-
c vered when those people
1i ed.” “Not discovered,”
says the scornful Shore-
d'tch boy. “Rubber has
always been discovered.”
’Tis and ’tisn’t are bandied

NOVEMBER 1944

“DO TOUCH” MUSEUMS 413

round and Mrs. Harrison is asked to come and
decide. The children gather round her and she
gets them to ask questions, asks them for their
Opinions, makes them think it out and reason. '7
Eventually it is conceded that the model is right
and a good many children now know a good deal
more about rubber, its properties, its discovery,
and limitations . . . and they will remember be—
cause they made an effort to find out for them-
selves. ’

But even exhibitions and Saturday mornings
dim beside the pleasure the Geffrye‘Museum offers
in holiday time. Journeys aren’t taken in war-
time unless they are really necessary, and holi-
days, unless they are for harvesting crops and '
fruit, are spent at home. A great deal 'of fun and
amusement has been organized for the Londoner,
but still, it’s good to get right away from home,
especially the home with no garden, and dull views
of grey brick.

If you lived that life, you would like the chance
to see the Ballet, to explore old churches, to see
Kew Gardens and Hampton Court. You can
imagine what it means to a Shoreditch child of
fourteen. It is a new life, a world outside his
imagination. The Museum is a window opening to
a horizon no one had mentioned to him. It brings

(Continued on page 442)

The Geology Room of the Kansas City Museum

otters rock specimens of absorbing interest

 

liliiiia'is’l'i’ll {it II. 1' .r‘"! i}

What They Say About Recreation

N TUDIES HAVE repeatedly shown that slums
breed crime and disease, that a large volume
of unemployment is due to illness, that or-

ganized, wholesome recreation facilities provide the

outlet which might otherwise be found in delin-
quent behavior. Certainly there is nothing inap—
propriate in aapublic welfare official’s telling the
community that decent housing, good health meas-
ures, and adequate provision for recreation will
reduce the need for assistance. . . .”—From Edi—

torial in Public Welfare, July 1944.

-—.—.—.-—u—-

 

“Children learn by playing, although that isn’t
why they play. They play because they enjoy it,
because it is fun and they need fun as they need
food, sunshine, and sleep.”——Dorothy Bradbury
and Edna Amidon in Learning to Care for Chil—

drcn.

“The child who likes to draw or to participate
in other forms of art activity is more likely to be
a healthy, normal child than he is to be a budding
artistic genius. His art expression is a natural
response to the impulse to create, just as are sing—
ing, dancing, acting, and storytelling with words.”
"Vienna Curtis.

“There is no end to the needs, and there is no
limit to the accomplishments of the human hand.
Arts and crafts, in the shop or in our homes, offer
sound media for recreating us. There is no delight
equaling that derived from the trade—mark on an
article, ‘Made by me.’ ”—Samuel H. Johnson.

“Perhaps if we stop to think about how children
play we shall all gain a better understanding of
what our role in the child’s play world should be
and can be.”——From At Home with Children, by
Charlotte G. Garrison and Eniina Dickson Shcehy.

“The right to work, usefully and creatively,
through the productive years. . . . The right to
education, for work, for citizenship, and for per—
sonal growth and happiness. . . . The right to rest,
recreation, and adventure; the opportunity to
enjoy life and take part in advancing civilization.”
—Extract from statement issued by the National
Resources Planning Board.

414

   
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
 

“In a democracy, national morale is what th
people make it as they live and work and pla
together. Nothing else can take its place."
From Education for a Strong America.

“We believe that a democratic way of livin
offers the best opportunity for human developmen
that the world knows at present, and that th
school, the classroom, and the playground ar
places where children and adults can participat
daily in such living.”-——From resolution adopte
by the Association for Childhood Education.

“There are few liner things in life than friend
liness. It is one of the fundamental virtues, an
probably as useful as any other.”-——Fred A. Dibble

“Today we hear a great deal of discussion abou
national defense. Back on the home front, play i
its best sense is an armor in itself, a shield agains
lack of faith and understanding. In the end, surel
no mechanized force of lawlessness and greed ca
make any headway against a tried and tested wa
of learning, a way of happiness, a way of under
standing.”~——Josephine Blackstock.

“Romp with the family, visit with friends, tak
walks, play games—or do whatever you like t
give your mind and body a change from the dail
grind on the job. ‘All work and no play make
Jack a dull boy.’ ”—From Institute of Life 11
snrance.

“The life, liberty, and pursuit. of happine
which we have claimed for man belongs witho
any specific declaration to childhood. N 0 one 11
a better right to be happy than a child. This rig
is innate in every ring of laughter, every reachi1
out of childhood’s arms and hearts toward th
essential world of theirs which so few adults 1n
enter.”—From N ew York Herald Tribune.

    
   
 

“The give-and-take experiences of the play-
ground are valuable in teaching children to respe't
the individuality of others, as well as to recognize

their own dignity and worth.”—VVarren W.
McS/vadden.

RECREATIo

 

Let's Have Living

Memorials
By LOUIS BROMFiELD

A plea tor war memorials which will
take the form "not of dead stones
and cast iron' but of living trees
and parks. lakes and clean streams."

this country we have been raising

“dead” memorials to those of our
sons, brothers and children who have
fallen in wars in defense of our country.
During that period our cities and coun-
tryside became cluttered with “memorials”
of all sizes from the standardized figure in
cast iron of an undersized Civil War
soldier leaning on his rifle to great groups
of bronze or cast iron statuary surrounded
by pyramids of cannon balls and garlands
of chains.

There is no estimate of the money expended on
these “memorials” but it has run easily into many
millions of dollars, invested in “dead” objects pro-
ducing after a few years time little more than a
sense of aesthetic distaste in the heart even of the
most casual passerby. Many an otherwise beauti—
ful avenue or square has been marred by statues
and structures erected through the sincere but
perhaps misguided desire of past generations to
leave behind something by which the soldier and
sailor might be remembered. The citizens of many
a city or town today wish there were some way of
removing these local monstrosities or replacing
them with something more beautiful and more use-
ful to future generations.

Lately there has grown up spontaneously
throughout the country a move to make of the
memorials to the dead of this war something not
only beautiful but useful, which will contribute to
the health, well-being and strength of the nation
in the future. I have discovered the impulse in the
minds of many wise citizens as well as in the plans
of organizations and planning commissions, from

NOVEMBER 1944

FOR MORE THAN seventy-five years in

 

"Most of the boys who lost their
lives in this war' as in all wars.
loved the out-ot—cloors. They loved
treesI and swimming. and fishing."

Washington all the way to small towns and vil-
lages in the middle west.

The plans for a new kind of memorial have
manifested themselves in many ways. The possi-
bilities of course, are endless. Frankly those proj-
ects which have interested me most are those
which have to do with the out-of-doors. Several
communities have under consideration plans for
local forests to be dedicated to the boys who went
abroad but did not return—memorials in the form
of living trees which provide recreational areas and
provide a useful part in the growing national in-
terest in the anchoring of our soil and the restora-
tion of our waning natural resources. Other proj-
ects include the building of lakes in areas where
lakes are a rarity, or the establishment of parks
and other’ recreational areas.

(Continued on page 441)
415

"Stayintown" Recreation

ESTCHESTER, like
most portions of
the Eastern United
States, was threatened
early with forced curtail—
ment of much of their
normal recreation activi-
ties as a part of a neces-
sary contribution to the

war effort. One solution
. to this problem, which has helped ease the s1tua-

tion and offers untold possibilities in the postwar
world to come, has been developed over the past
few months by the Westchester County Recreation
Commission which has its headquarters in the
County Office Building, White Plains, New York.

It is Mobile Recreation ——a term purposely
vague and elastic so as to include the many and
varied services which the County Recreation Com-
mission does and can offer communities working
as always in cooperation with local recreation com-
missions in and about the county.

For Westchester, that rich and picturesque roll-
ing country lying to the north of New York City,
has felt the pinch of the war emergency as acutely
as any district in the gas-starved eastern area.
While its cities and adjacent villages have enjoyed
adequate public transportation facilities, smaller
and outlying communities have found themselves.
literally marooned. No longer is it possible for
them to participate in the usual commercial recre-
ation activities offered by larger towns and cities
miles distant, for these are practically inaccessible
save by automobile and such means of travel has
been unpatriotic‘. Therefore, if the residents of
such communities are to be allowed to participate
in any recreation activities, programs must be
brought to them.

Stayintown Programs the Answer

It was for this primary purpose that the re-
sources of mobile recreation were mobilized early
in 1944 with the inauguration of Stayintown Pro-
grams by County Recreation for county-wide par-
ticipation.

The nature of such programs required much
thought and consideration. There was little money
to Spend upon ambitious plans; therefore we were
compelled to draw upon resources common to most
American communities. Although sound movies

416

By LOWELL AMES NORRIS
Director of Promotion and Mobile Recreation

Westchester County Recreation Commission

Mobile recreation has come to stay
in Westchester CountyI New York'
where "Stayintown" programs have

captured the popular imagination

. were as important as their song-minded neighbors.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   

were intended to play an
important part, it was
neither desirable, practi-
cal, nor possible to book
films which would even
attempt to compete with
commercial entertainment
projects. Furthermore, as
wisely stipulated by E.
Dana Caulkins, Superin-
tendent of the Commission, all county presenta-
tions must include the fundamental factor so im-
portant to all recreational programs—the facto
which for want of a better phrase as far as Stayin-
town Programs were concerned —- we termed
“audience participation.” None of us felt that such
participation would be completely met by the in-
clusion of community singing on all programs. Not
all people like to singwyet their recreational needs

Therefore we cast around for other feature
although community singing remained a must. We
also felt that in addition to recreational pleasure
derived from community-wide participation, some
of the Stayintown shows should contribute seri-
ously to wartime and postwar education. W
agreed each particular unit must possess real audi
ence appeal and be of a nature sufficiently dramati
to have it received upon its own merits as well as
suitable for indoor production.

State Police to the Rescue!

The New York State Police were the first t
recognize the value of such service and Superin
tendent John A. Gaifney, through Lieutenan
Daniel F. Glasheen, commanding Troop K a
Hawthorne, offered real cooperation in accord wit
Governor Dewey’s edict seeking to stimulate juve
nile advancement and cooperation to maintain la
and order on the home front. Real live-in-the
Hesh state police bloodhounds that play importan
parts in tracking down criminals and rescuing los
persons together with their trainer, Corporal W
W. Horton, feature the State Police program.
Special demonstration is staged at every presenta
tion with the dogs tracking down some member 0
the audience volunteering as a “fugitive,” whq
hides himself somewhere in the auditorium. So far
the animals have always got their man! i

There are excitingnsound motion pictures Oli

RECREATION

 

“STAYINTOW ” RECREATION 417

hit-and-run driving with a youth talk by State
Police Lieutenant C. P. Curtin, who warns against
crime and emphasizes this warning with behind-
the-scene tales of lawbreakers apprehended by a
clue as intangible as a splinter of headlight glass
or a broken radiator cap. Another film highlights

the need of traffic safety, and State Police Ser—.

geant C. B. Van Allen follows up with an in-
formal talk on the same subject in which the
youngsters in the audience delightedly join. Com-
munity singing opens and closes the program,
and the local police chief acts as co-chairman with
the local recreation executive who has the pro-
gram in charge.

Enter the FBI

Following their premiere in Ossining on March
.18th, 1944, before an enthusiastic audience of close
to a thousand men, women and children, many
requests for programs came to the County Recre-
ation Commission and it became obvious more
programs should be available. Through the cour-
tesy of E. E. Conroy, Special
Agent in Charge, Federal
Bureau of Investi-
gation, New York
City, a second pro-
gram unit was added
“The FBI at War
0 n t h e H on] e
Front.” Sound
movies gave graphic
pictures of the work
of this law enforce-
ment agency, and a
special operative
talks on actual cases,
including the inside
story of the German
spies who landed
f-rom U-boats on
American soil; the
United States Navy,
t h r o u g h t h e
WAVES assigned
Navy personnel to
Mobile Recreation
for a special
WAVES program
together with of-
ficial battle films,
and the Macfadden
Publications fol-

NOVEMBER 1944

Naval entertainers of Mobile Recreation
Stayintown Show discuss program details

 

lowed through With the loan of a specially made
Hollywood film— “I’ll Tell the World”—-—0n the
history of advertising, which was shown at their
pavilion during the New York World’s Fair.
Others indicated a desire to participate and gra-
cious cooperation on the part of the White Plains
Ration Board permitted the stayintown plan to be
put into operation. Before the spring season closed
on June I 7th, thirteen of these programs had been
presented throughout the county, eight by the
State Police, with a total attendance of 3,2147. At-
tendance figures mean little, however, when it is
remembered the majority of these programs were
purposely “booked” into the smaller communities
temporarily deprived of most recreational pleasures.

Programs Grow in Popularity

The programs early aroused the interest of
Harold E. Hollister, one of the district Superin—
tendents of Education, with the result that several
presentations were held by his request at district
schools in some of the hill country still existing in
this county. Pupils brought
their lunches to the central
school where the
program was held
and the remainder
o f t h e d a y W a 3
given over to rec—
reational events. In
most instances the
programs are held
under the auspices
of the local recrea-~
tion commissions.
In addition to pro-
viding the unit pro-
gram and assisting
with promotion, the
County Commission
supplies screen,
sound projector and
operator. Usually
the Commission also
assumes the finan- '
cial responsibility
for films and oper-
ator, except in in-
stances where some
of the expenses are
paid from the local
recreation budget.
There are no ad-

413 “STA YINTOWN” RECREATION

mission charges and it may be stated in passing
that it always seems to be the smaller communi-
ties who wish to share the expenses which gener-
ally run between seven and ten dollars for indoor

presentations.

May Move Outdoors

During July and August it has been the policy
of the County Recreation Commission for some
years past to provide a special summer service for
village, town and city recreation departments. The
spring indoor programs proved so popular that it
was decided to move them out of doors with open
air motion pictures which Westchesterites found
a pleasing novelty. For this series, in addition to
Community Music Nights, a new and varied pro—
gram was presented with even more emphasis laid
upon local participation. Generally speaking, the
program was divided into three equal parts—local
recreation demonstrations, community singing,
and motion pictures. The most popular of the
several programs presented was a Forget-Your-
Cares Night. This was called for in many com-
munities. Purposely light and amusing with
humorous selections for community singing and
comedy motion pictures, it was an instant hit. One

community, realizing the need for relaxation, '

adopted this motif for the three visits Mobile Rec-
reation made during the season.

The outdoor programs were on a more ambi-
tious scale than those staged ,indoors. Motion
pictures and slides for community singing were
projected on a large portable outdoor screen in
playground, plaza, stadium, or schoolyard wher-
ever the program was presented and electrical
connections available. Large theatrical flood lights
illuminated the “stage” for local acts and the com-
munity song leader. Microphones, hooked up to
giant loud-speakers, carried voice and music to all
parts of the various amphitheaters, and during
sound movies the same public address system was
utilized for amplification. Usually before show

for OPA, who, noting the nightly crowds and the
marked absence of automobiles, credited the
County Recreation Commission with having been
the means of saving hundreds of gallons of much
needed gasoline. Stayintown policies were more
than a patriotic gesture and a real contribution to
the war effort, he declared, for while seeking to
discourage out—of—town travel they came into town
with a recreational substitute.

Future Plans

Incidentally, when the Stayintown Programs go
indoors, as they are scheduled to do in the late
fall, OPA will be among those providing a special
program unit. This will be a rubber clinic with
local ration and play heads acting as co-chairmen,
for recreation and automobile conservation have
much in common. No matter what the war pic-
ture may be, the tire situation will remain critical.
A special film will give graphic illustrations of tire
abuse and a rubber expert will answer questions
and advise on personal problems.

One of the best programs Mobile Recreation
has yet devised from the standpoint of audience
appeal and participation is the unit presented by
radio station WFAS of White Plains, which will
have its premiere during November. For this
purpose auditorium stages will be turned into a
broadcast studio with the station going “on the
air” as it does when broadcasting. There will be
a special film on broadcasts, auditions with audi-
ence participation, sound effect demonstrations,
and finally a “broadcast” with players chosen from
the audience who will read from scripts with
usual accompaniment of sound effects and music.

Other organizations with programs in prepara—
tion, in addition to those who have already gone
on the “circuit,” include the Westchester County
Park Commission, the Westchester County Dis-
trict Attorney’s thce, the Westchester Fire
Chiefs Emergency Plan, the Westchester Drama
Association, the Westchester Lighting Company,

 

time there .was a half hour concert of recordings.
Ground crews included a sound engineer, a pro-
jectionist and one or two assistants (drafted from
the High School “junior technicians”). Crowds,
varying from several hundred to two or three
thousand, according to the size of the communi-
ties, participated. During seven short weeks, forty
of these programs were arranged in more than
fifteen communities with the seasonal total of
25,971.

Such attendance figures aroused the approba-
tion of Leslie'V. Bateman, County Administrator

and the New York Telephone Company. ii
Although Mobile Recreation serves a real pur-'
pose during the war days, it will perform even‘
greater tasks in the postwar days to come. Thenll
it can truly plan community services on a county-
wide basis unhampered by transportation and other.I
wartime restrictions—truly fulfilling the purpose
for which it was created. Waiting for these days
are a traveling caravan of wild animals from the
New York Zoological Park, an elaborate road

company from the Westchester Drama Associa-
(Continued on page 441)

RECREATION

Cooperativer Planned and Financed

ll LAY ALL SUMMER for a
dollar.” That was our
slogan, and the product

proved to be cheap enough at

the price—especially when the dollar took care of
the whole family!

At the beginning of the summer members of the
project services staff at the Robison Courts
Project of the Texarkana Housing Authority were
up the proverbial tree. There were 1,600 residents
of the project; 1,600 people (many of them chil—
dren) faced with a summer for which there had
been no recreational planning. The staff just
‘wasn’t big enough to add this job to their other
duties, and do any of them successfully—mnot if
they expected to sleep! They needed somebody to
give full time to planning a program and super-
vising the play areas. The order was a tall one,
and the staff called on the tenant association for
suggestions about its solution. With the help of
the liaison USO worker for the Housing Project
a plan was evolved, and an advance publicity cam-
paign was set in motion.

When everybody in the Courts had had an op-
portunity to learn about the need and the sug—
gested solution, block leaders went the rounds of
the community and talked to each family. Each
family was asked to contribute $1.00 toward a
fund which would pay the salary of a full-time
playground supervisor for the three summer
months. The best program
possible would be provided

   

NOVEMBER 1944

By G. H. BROOKS

Executive Director. Housing Authority Most of the families con-
Texarkana' Texas

lt's Family Night at Robison's Courts—more
~ familiarly known as "Mom's and Pop's" Night

and there would be no refunds.

tributed.

A leader, fortunately, was
already on hand. One of the residents of the proj-
ect took over for the Tenants Association Recre—
ation Committee. It was her responsibility to con—
duct a recreation program from 9 A. M. until 9
P. M. six days a week. Thirty other residents of
Robison Courts volunteered to help with the pro-
gram where they could.

Mornings and evenings were given over to out-
door activities: shuflieboard, ping-pong, badmin—
ton, croquet, washers, horseshoes, volley ball and
baseball. Afternoons were spent indoors. (It’s hot
in Texas in July and August.) Table games, quiet
group games, crafts and storytelling periods helped
to pass the hottest hours without danger of sun—
stroke. For an hour every evening the. children
cooled off in the spray pool. One evening each
week was “Mom’s and Pop’s Night.” The adults
played both indoor table games and outdoor active
games.

Teen—agers and adults had outdoor dances and
the court gained the reputation of being the “cool-
est dance spot in town.” Couples danced to their
favorite orchestras, via uke box. Teen-agers from
town were admitted to the unior dances, but adult
dances were limited to the residents of the courts
and their guests. The success of the program was
best expressed by some of

(Continued on page 447)

. .
- - - - .
. mmp’gwm waww‘ "
. .  .4:
'c
l " ~ . i . I
s

u-— ., 
, "s. .
5 u
a ' '



  

,_.;;-_‘.'.,_,_   m ,  ' «nan.- .'«.'=.’\-. :n- - , . .. .
Correct Photo Studio, Texarkana, Texas

419

5
h\,-‘-’ ,__ 4”“; i'i'x-g» 7. 

Highways to New Worlds

Books are brave new worlds to children.
Here are stories of an organization and

spread book magic to larger and larger
numbers of boys and girls everywhere.

Books Bring Adventure

N EITHER SIDE of a plate glass partition a
O handful of people are waiting. There is no

sound, no movement. They seem not to a

breathe. Their eyes are all boring toward one man.
He stands watching a pointer sweep around the
face of a stop watch. His hand is raised, ready to
throw the first cue. This is the moment of prepara-
tion ; the moment when actors, technician, sound
man, musicians prepare to call upon that overplus

of power, that extra concentration and emotional -

awareness that marks the difference between a
good “dress” and a show. The scene is Studio B of
the World Broadcasting Corporation. A story for
the transcription series, Books Bring Adventure,

is about to be cut.
The series itself is an adventure—an adventure

in bringing to children everywhere, and to their
parents and teachers and adult friends, a new kind
of experience with books. There is nothing ex-
perimental about the project. It is the result of
years of trial and error in children’s radio pro-
grams through local stations all over the country.
The story of that experiment is the story of the
present series.

Seven years ago the Junior League of Portland,
Oregon, began the pioneering job. They felt that
there was material other than Superman or Jack
Armstrong, the All American Boy, which might
appeal to children and would surely offer them a
subtler type of adventuring. The League members
turned their attention and their talents to book
adaptations. They called their radio series Reading
I s F 1m. The books were carefully chosen for good

story content, action, suSpense, and real, live-

characters. The scripts were well written. The
management of the local radio station was inter—
ested and willing to spend time (radio’s most val-
uable commodity) and skill on giving the series

420

a good production. The
first series was suc—
cessful enough to war-
rant continuing with
the idea.

Other Junior Leagues
in other cities began
work on radio pro-
grams for children.
They did not all follow
the pattern of the
Portland League. But
over the years it be-
came clear that the
most successful pro—
grams were book
adaptations. Today 90
per cent of the scripts
in the catalogue of
children’s radio material compiled by the Associa-
tion of Junior Leagues of America are book
adaptations. By 1943, tiNenty-two Leagues were
producing children’s radio programs over local sta—

' . The most satisfactory projects, perhaps,
have been those of Los Angeles, Salt Lake City,
and Pittsburgh. The Pittsburgh League has won i
three national awards at the Institute for Educa-
tion by Radio. .

There was no “possible, probable shadow of
doubt” that book adaptations were a sound ap-
proach to children’s broadcasts. The Leagues had
proved that such programs could be correlated
with the work of the schools and the librafies:
could become a medium for education in the broad-
est sense of that word; could bring pleasure and
growth to hundreds of children whose reading
habits were poor or nonexistent.

With the coming of the war, however, local pro- l
duction became increasingly difficult. Local sta—
tions were operating with drastically reduced staffs
and with programs devoted more and more fully
to the war effort. No commercial groups were!
'making this type of transcription. It was evident, .
too, that the local Leagues could reach only a small
proportion of children over the country. It seemed 1
indicated—clearly and obviously—that the time
had come for the Association of Junior Leagues of
America to expand the pioneering job to a point

RECREATION

 

 

K... Way L *r

; "s “h r '~

-'___,A.v' 'AM. wig"
' a nit-'3'?

. .a
..\ ._z ,2“). lzwve. “a.

where transcriptions of book adaptations could be
made easily and inexpensively available for use on
any radio station or for any school or library or
other organization with the equipment to play six-
teen—inch discs recorded at 33% RPM. Eventu-
ally the League hopes to put the transcriptions on
twelve-inch records playable on any home or school
record—player. '

The plan, conceived in the fertile brain of Gloria
Chandler, Consultant on Radio for the Associa-
tion staff, was set in motion early this summer. By

October 1st the transcriptions were ready for re-‘

lease. Between those two dates a “whet” of work
had gone on.

A committee of teachers, librarians, publishers,

 

Title — Author
Phil Stong

 

CAPTAIN KIDD’s COW

GIFT OF THE FOREST

IN CLEAN HAY

LEVEL LAND

MISCHIEF IN FEz

MOCHA THE DJUKA

ON THE DARK OF THE MOON
SINGING TREE .

SMOKY BAY

STRUGGLE Is OUR BROTHER
THREE AND A PIGEON

TRAP LINES NORTH

WHEN THE TYPHOON BLOWS

Eric P. Kelly .
Dola de Jong
Eleanor Hoffman
Frances F. Neilson
Don Lang

Kate Seredy
Steingumur Arason
Gregor Felsen
Kitty Barne
Stephen Meader
Elizabeth F. Lewis

 

Eloise Lownsbery and H. La] Singh

um...—

‘ .-..
‘2

Courtesy "Book Box Lady”

Dolls dressed as storybook people help make a book
exhibit come alive for the children who look at it

and booksellers, working with Miss Chandler, can-
vassed the whole field of children’s books in order
to be sure that the thirteen stories chosen for the
series would be the best material available. Each '
book had to meet.the primary test of being sig-
niiicant for reading as well as suitable for radio
adaptation. Beyond that, the committee sought
books that would widen horizons, stimulate imagi-
nations, and satisfy the need for high adventure that
lives in every normal youngster. The final list is
international in scope. It includes realism and
humor, fantasy and legend. The list is as follows;

 

 

Publisher Country
Dodd Mead U.S.A.
Longmans Green India.
Macmillan Poland
Scri'bner’s Holland
Holiday House Morocco
Dutton Negro and SO. America
Oxford American Negro. ‘
Viking Hungary
Macmillan Iceland
Dutton Russia
Dodd Mead England
Dodd Mead Canada
Winston ' China

 

With each set of transcriptions will go a reading
list indicating for each book in the series ten others
of similar interest. This additional list will

NOVEMBER 1944

strengthen the Committee’s effort to broaden back-
grounds ~and show young readers new worlds for
their conquering.

421

422 HIGHWA Y5 TO NEW WORLDS

The producer for the series and the actors for
each story were chosen with one end in mind—to

get the best possible talent available. Their work,
excellent to begin with, has been hedged about
with every mechanical care. The smallestxslip of
the tongue, the slightest irregularity in sound or
music transcription, was re-recorded and erased
from the final product. The result is a series of
transcriptions (and eventually, perhaps, of records)
as nearly perfect, mechanically and artistically, as
loving care can make them. Thousands of children
all over the country will be the beneficiaries.

There has been a spirit of excited cooperation
from everyone who has had any part in making
the transcriptions. Something more than the artis-
tic integrity that goes into doing a good job has
been apparent from the very start among actors
and technical men. It is obvious that the job has
gotten under their skins so that its final success is
very close to their hearts. An interesting note is
that some of the child actors who have. taken part
in making the transcriptions have been “pester-
ing” the producer for c0pies of the books from
which the episodes were taken!

The job is done now. The transcriptions are
being sent out to radio stations, to schools, and
libraries all over the country. An audition record
is available for anyone who wants to hear it.
Available, too, are suggestions for listener—promo-
tion and for c00perative tie—up5°with other com—
' munity groups interested in promoting good read-
ing among children.

Anyone who would like to know more about the
details of getting and producing the series should
write to Miss Gloria Chandler, Association of

Junior Leagues .of America, the Waldorf-Astoria,
New York 22, New York.

The Book Box Lady

'r wixs MIDMORNING in Crown Point, Indiana.
I School was in its usual midmorning rut. Pupils
sat listlessly at their desks, wrote each other notes,
made spitballs against that auspicious moment
when teacher’s back would be turned, went to the
board to demonstrate the day’s arithmetic problem.

Teachers coped as best they could with discipline'

and racked their brains for new ways to teach old
facts. The principal called two of the older boys to
his office and sent them to the gymnasium to help
unpack boxes. Johnnie, in the third grade, waved
his hand violently and asked to be excused. Per-

mission granted, Johnnie tiptoed into the hall. He
cocked his head on one side to listen to queer
noises coming from the gym. He thought he’d
better investigate. A minute later his voice rang
through the corridors in a great shouting. “Hey!
The books are here!”

And so they were. Ruth Tooze, the “Book Box
Lady,” with hundreds of children’s books, had
come to Crown Point. A youngster from the eighth
grade was so excited over the books that he rushed
off to ask the principal whether the pupils might
have some time off in the afternoon to read.
Johnnie’s yell had brought many children into the
halls—--—all begging to read. The principal declared
a two-day vacation, two days when everybody in
the school—nadministrative staff, teachers, pupils——
forgot their classes and read books.

Ruth T ooze once taught music and .ran the li-
brary in a small progressive school in Palo Alto.
In 1935 she moved to Evanston and started a
book shop, the Book Box. It might have been just
another book sh0p slanted toward children’s in—
terests. It wasn’t that because Mrs. Tooze had an
idea. She had a child of her own, and she knew
how hard it was for any parent outside the largest
cities to find roads which children could travel to
the storehouses of the world’s culture. She be—
lieved that books could open many doors for
youngsters, solve many problems for perplexed
parents, if only the youngsters and the oldsters
and the right books could somehow be brought
together.

Children’s books cannot be handled like com—
mercial items. The seller of them is trafficking in
ideas and ideals, in the materials that will build
the world of tomorrow. Many parents realize this.
They want help in finding for their children good
resources of culture, of music and literature, and
art. Such aid to parents should come from teach—
ers. But teachers are helpless unless school boards
and superintendents will provide the rich resources
that are available. Too often the “powers that be” I
cOnsider these resources mere frills and fail to .
allocate the funds necessary for procuring them.
Mrs. Tooze started her book shop in order to make
for the parents. of Chicago’s North Shore a place
where they could find counsel in selecting for their
children’s reading the best possible bill of fare.

Teachers Become Interested

By the time the Book Box had finished one year
of life it was a “hangout” for teachers who were
studying the mechanics of their trade at North-

RECREATION

HIGH W'A Y5 TO NE W WORLDS 423

western University. They began to use the shop
as a curriculum laboratory, and they were amazed
at what they found. These men and women whose
job it was to supervise their pupils’ reading often
had little knowledge of children’s books. They
found in Mrs. Tooze a person who thought of
books in terms of human beings and their com-
munities, whether large or small. 'They came back
again and again for aid in planning reading pro-
grams. And they only increased her realization
that most parents and school boards knew nothing
or next to nothing about books for children; that
libraries in the average town or small city were
pitifully inadequate; that there were too few books
in the average small town or rural school.

Mrs. Tooze was a novice at the book trade. She
knew “too little to be afraid of the pontificate.”
She went to New York to talk to the editors of
children’s books. She told them that she wanted
five or six hundred good books, books definitely
related to the subjects taught in grades three to
eight. She wanted to take these books back to
summer schools where teachers could see them.
She offered no guarantee of immediate sales, but
she argues that this was the best possible kind of
long range selling. Eighteen editors agreed to co—
operate with her—agreed tentatively and with
certain reservations, lured on, we suspect, by her
dynamic belief in her own proposition. She was
(and is) a person with a cause.

Home again, Ruth Tooze, wrote to educational
departments of universities and professional schools
where teachers would be coming for certificate re-
newal or degree credits during the summer. She
found that teacher training institutions on the
whole had children’s libraries which were dis—
tinguished by their inadequacy. In 1940 twelve
summer schools welcomed her suggestion that she
set up book exhibits to be used by the teachers who
were studying there. By this time she had about
600 books. She showed them to teachers of all
grades, talked about them, fired the teachers with
much of her own enthusiasm for giving to children
the books that would meet the boys and girls where
they were, in terms of their interests, instead of
giving them books every child should know—-
vintage of 1900. The enthusiasm pf the teachers
for what she had to offer was almost pitiful. Here
at last was someone who could speak their
language, who thought of books in terms of life.

In 1942 she was ready for a new experiment.
Why not bring the books directly to the children
in the schools? Through the good offices of a

NOVEMBER 1944

convert to her theory she was invited to come into
the schools of Rockford, Illinois, and give a dem-
onstration. Commercial facilities for the purchase
of children’s books were meagre in Rockford. The
public libraries were good as far as they went, but
that wasn’t far enough. The set-up was a perfect
test tube for the Book Box Lady.

Mrs. Tooze met all the second and third grade
children in the city in the auditorium of one of the
schools. For an hour she told stories. Then the
children were turned loose with the book exhibit——
turned loose to handle the books, to read them, to
become familiar with their texture and their il-
lustrations and their words. Later on in the morn-
ing the fourth, fifth, and sixth grades went through
the same experience. One youngster, when he got
home, went starry—eyed to his father. “Dad,” he
said, “the storytelling lady came to our school
today. It was the best day we’d ever had at school.
She was so funny. You know we ‘don’t laugh
much in school this year. She made everybody
laugh, Dad, even the teachers. Think of it, Dad,
even the teachers laughed.”

The Answer—Book Fairs

The afternoon was turned over to the parents.
They came to see what books were available for
children to read. They had one question, “How
can we get these books for "our children?” Mrs.
Tooze had the answer: book fairs.

The first book fair was held in the gymnasium
of two of the Rockford schools. The books were
set out in booths for age interest and for subject
interest. Each booth was chairmaned by a parent
who had a youngster in the grades concerned.
Twelve to fifteen hundred books were sold in
Rockford, sold for children on every economic
level. The P.T.A. sponsored the fairs and kept
20 per cent of the profits (which they promptly put
into more books for the school libraries). This '-
was in October 1942. In June 1943 the superin—
tendent of schools reported that in the two schools
where a book fair had been held the general
achievement tests and the reading tests showed the
greatest advances in the history of the school.
Furthermore, he testified that parents, teachers,
pupils had a common meeting ground, that the
influence of the books had reached into every facet
of community life. Every principal in the city
wanted to have a book fair at his school. All the
principals joined in a request that Mrs. Tooze
come to Rockford last fall for three weeks. A1-

( Continued on page 447)

For servicemen and Women

HE NEWARK, New
I Jersey, Art Museum,

working with the Spe-
cial Services Branch at
Camp Kilmer, is provid-
ing a stimulating leisure
time activity for the ser—
- vicemen and women sta-
tioned at the camp. The
soldiers have named the

 

This material has been taken from a publi-
cation issued by the Newark Museum under
the titleI I'The Paint and Clay Corner." It
will serve as a practical guide to any group
wishing to set up a similar workshop.

The project described here is only one of
many interesting activities being conducted by
the Newark Museum. Readers of RECREATION
will recall an article in the August issue of
the magazine which described the summer

The photographs are ar-
ranged in separate folders
for anatomical information
for figure, portrait, and
animal sculpture and draw-
ing, and there are photo—
graphs of landscapes and
interiors to be used as sug-
gestions for painting com—
positions.

project the ‘fPaint and Clay
Corner.” It is located in
the library of one of the
Service Clubs and the atmOSphere is informal and
homelike. The library hours, from IO A. M. to 10
P. M., ,make it possible for men and women on
night as well as day duty to use the Paint and
Clay Corner in their leisure time. A library staff
member is always present to show the location of
the materials and explain their use. Twice a week
a member of the museum staff comes to Camp
Kilmer to give beginners instruction in painting
and modelling. Twice a month different techniques
and points of view are given by painters and
sculptors who are invited by the Museum on
scheduled dates. In" addition to this, a series of
Sunday afternoon outdoor sketching trips has been
added to the program. '

Many hundreds of men and women have used
the Paint and Clay,corner. A surprising number
of them had never before thought of paint and
clay as materials they would enjoy working with.
But let the leader lump up an oval mass of clay,
and the most diffident cannot resist the urge to
shape it into eyes, nose, and mouth—especially if
he has a particular top sergeant in mind!

No formal “classes” are held when the museum
staff member comes around. She sets out the ma-
terials in an inviting array, and the men work for
a few minutes or a few hours as they wish. They
choose their own subject and pick out from oil
paints, oil chalks, black and white media, self-
hardening clay, and plaster blocks for carving, the
materials they prefer for their work.

During the period between visits from the in-
structor, suggestions for work are kept in a port-
folio on one of the shelves. These include instruc-
tion for carving, modeling and drawing exercises,
and photograph reproductions from magazines.

424

 

program carried on by the Museum.

The Equipment

The library is equipped
with bakelite-surfaced tables which are very sat-
isfactory because they are easily cleaned and a
good height and size. They are thirty inches high,
three feet wide, and five feet long.

Drawing boards eighteen by twenty-four inches
cut from quarter-inch wallboard shellacked on
both sides are propped against the table edges or
used on the folding easels.

Folding Hoor'easels were lent by a local art
association. Where Hoor easels are not obtainable,
folding table easels are suggested. These may be
used on tables or on portable stools. A large
standing easel, constructed by the Special Services
Branch, is used for_ demonstrations.

Palettes for oil paints made from medium-soft
wallboard twelve by fifteen inches, with both sides
of each palette covered with two coats of shellac,
are used.. Several sheets of waxed paper are
stapled on one side. The paint is placed on the

- top sheet of Waxed paper, which is torn off after

use. If the palette is to be used the next day, the
waxed paper is folded up over the paint, which
will keep moist in this way for a day or two. If
there is a great deal of unused paint left on a
palette, each color is put into a section of muffin
tin and covered with waxed paper. It is used on a
fresh palette later.

Small glass jelly jars, two for five cents at ten-
cent stores, are used for turpentine cups. The
regular tin cups which clip on the palette are used
for outdoor work. A two-quart glass jar provided
by the Service Club cafeteria holds used turpentine.
When the sediment has settled at the bottom of
the jar, the clear turpentine is poured off and used
again. Another two—quart jar is used for clay
“slip”—clay thinned to a creamy consistency and

RECREATION

 

FOR SERVI'CEMEN AND WOMEN 425

used to hold together parts of a piece of modeling.

As a sink is not available, the Special Services
office provides two galvanized pails. One is used
for rinsing clay from hands and equipment, the
other for emptying water used for water colors
and ink washes. M

Five paint boxes, equipped with palette, paints,
turpentine cup, palette knife, three brushes, tur-
pentine bottle and paint cloth are available for out—
door use. A label containing a list of contents and
clean-up directions is attached to the outside of
each box. The labels are weather-proofed with
a coat of shellac. Library cards are attached on
the inside of each box and the boxes are checked
in and out by the librarian.

Paint rags are supplied by the Post Salvage
Department, which also supplies old raincoats to
‘ be cut into pieces large enough to cover ceramic
pieces which have to be kept damp.

Clay modeling tools whittled and sandpapered
from scrap' wood, orangewood sticks, and lengths
of wire of different guage are used.

Armatures on which to model ceramic heads-

and figurines are made from shade rollers cut in
three by eight inch lengths and nailed to scrap
wood one inch thick and of various basedimen-
sions. Heavy coats of shellac are given to these
armatures to prevent the clay from sticking to the
wood and to prevent the wood from warping.
Plaster “bats,” on which ceramic pieces are built,
are cast in pie tins and rectangular cardboard

 

NOVEMBER 1944

.
 {£u371m. ,

boxes. A large, covered, galvanized can is used
to hold the supply of ceramic clay. An inch or
two of water is kept in the bottom and the clay
stands in this. The clay is covered with a wet
cloth, one end dipped in water to keep it damp by
capillary action.

'The enthusiastic comments of appreciation from
the men and women who use the Paint and Clay
Corner are clear indications of its value as a rec—
reation activity: One such comment came from a

“soldier who had just finished his first piece of

sculpture. He stood back to look at his work
with some satisfaction and said, “When I go to a
show, I watch other people doing things. Tonight
I did something ’myself and I got more real fun
out of it, and this has been the best evening I have
had in camp.”

“The purpose of leisure-time art is not profes-
sional competency; it is not an effort to rival the
gifted and special few who must, as artists, give
perfection of form to what we buy, or must break
new ground for man’s vision of the beauty of the
world. It is purely individual satisfaction. It is
the personal effort to enter into our heritage of
the color and form of the world, to expend our
own efforts from toil into pleasure, to assert our
own right to do something to our own environ—
ment, either alone or in communal efforts with
0thers.”-—5ydm’y Grccnbie in Leisure for Living.

"The Paint and Clay
Corner" provided for
servicemen is an ex-
ample of one form of
service which muse-
ums are offering. Still
another is glimpsed
in this picture show-
ing blind high school
students "seeing"
Hernandez' Black
Panther by feeling its.
hard. smooth surfaces.

 

Courtesy Magazine of Art

GI Joe Makes a Discovery

the days when an over-

seas commander radioed
the War Department to send
him “eleven pianos along with
the bullets and beans,” but
today it has developed to the
point where fifty-five girls
were fiown a distance of two
hundred miles to an isolated
station so that the men there might hold a dance.

Recreation, as distinguished from entertainment
of the commercial amusement‘variety, is being dis-
covered daily by hundreds of men in our armed
forces. Many are isolated in relatively small num-
bers from the civilization they’ve known by the
snow and ice of the Arctic Circle, or the great
expanses of water of the Pacific, or the miles of
sand and dust in the desert of Africa. They are
stationed at points on the globe selected because of
their importance to the Army in predicting weather
or maintaining communications, or their suitability
as emergency landing fields along routes flown by
the planes pouring out of United States aircraft
plants and winging their way to all fighting fronts.
Yet these men have discovered that leisure can be
enjoyable and satisfying even though there are few
movies to see, few, if any, radio programs to hear,
no Coney Islands to visit, and no night clubs or
sports spectacles to attend. _

As might be expected, it was the ingenuity of
American youth, plus a
sharing of recreational ex-
periences dating back to
the playground or recrea-
tion center of a more peace-
ful era, plus the assistance
of officers and men with
civilian experience in pub-
lic recreational leadership
which enabled our GIs to
drive the enemy of bore-
dom back out into the
snow or water or sand
from which it had risen to
envelop them.

Young men from Ala-
bama, Mississippi, and
Texas, finding themselves

426

IT was JUST beginning in

By HAROLD F. MOOR

'Chief. Special Service Division

Major, Air Corps

Major Moor was at one time Assistant
State Director of the Wisconsin WPA
Recreation Proiect, and when called
to active duty was serving as recrea-
tion executive at Sycamore. Illinois

"Perverse as it may soundI wars have bene-
ficial results. and the obiectives of public rec-
reation. tool will be nearer realization as a
result of the present conflict. Many young
men' through force of circumstances, have ex-
perienced the genuine and immediate satisfac-
tions resulting from participation either indi-
vidually or collectively in activities which chal-
lenge them to successful accomplishment or
self-expression. They will no longer be satis-
fied solely with commercial amusements; they
will insist that the communities to which they
return provide opportunities for the continued
pursuit of interests they have acquired; they
will insist that leadership be provided to en-
able others to share their enioyment; and they
will constitute a body of allies in the cause of
public recreation such as those of us who have
dedicated our lives to it have never seen."

stationed in the Arctic, are
learning to ski and to argue
about waxing techniques. The
challenge of mastering the
Christie and Telemark is
giving them not only some-
thing to do but something to
think and talk and write

home about.

Not “Kids’ Stuff” After All!

Other discoveries in recreation help them endure
the long winter nights when Arctic darkness mul-
tiplies the desolating powers of the forces of bore-
dom. Kits of handcraft tools and supplies, at first
considered by military procurement officials as
“kids’ stuff,” have awakened men to the satisfac-
tion resulting from creative ability, and many are
the handmade billfolds and block-printed greeting
cards, for example, which the men send with pride
to friends and kin back home. It is even rumored
that parachute silk has mysteriously been found
transtrmed into block-printed drapes to brighten
an otherwise drab and dreary hut.

Procurement officials who had a hundred ob-
jections to placing the Army’s first order for fifty
handcraft kits requisitioned by the Special Ser—
vice Division of the Air Transport Command now
buy them ten thousand at a time without even
raising an eyebrow. Even Post Exchanges, by

popular GI demand, are now stocking handcraft
supplies. A kit of raw ma—

terials and instructions for
model plane building (as
distinguished from the
ready-designed and stamp-
ed-out kits) was recently
reported by an officer at a
northern station as “the
best type of recreational
supply to have reached the
field.”

°Because “bullets and
beans” have a higher ship-
ping priority than recrea-
tional supplies, the men in
the Pacific take advantage
of native materials as a
means of self-expression.

RECREATION

 

GI JOE MAKES A DISCO VERY 427

Artistically pat—
terned necklaces,
matched so as to
bring out the
natural color and
beauty of sea
shells as one finds
them only in the
tropics, are a
popular hand—
craft, as is also
the sculpturing of
cocoanuts before
the hulls have
been removed.
The making 'of
artificial lures
enhances'the fun
in fishing, for
which opportuni-
ties abound in
the quiet lagoons
of coral atolls
after the storm
of war has passed
them by. Our
current grim associations with Pacific atolls has
tended to make us forget that not so long ago, in
the days of our pre—Pearl Harbor innocence, we
romanticized them as island paradises.

3

“Plastic” Music

Judged by the incessant call from overseas for
musical instruments, orchestrations, composition
paper, and other supplies, most of the members of
our prewar one hundred thousand bands are in the
Army now, alive—and kicking! Attendance figures
from the Southwest Pacific show musical activities
about equal in popularity to athletics. In view of
the critical shortages of legitimate instruments,
plastic ocarinas, tonettes and song flutes were sub-
stituted in many cases and, as was expected, the
enthusiasm accorded them varied in degree. Where
they were used to awaken an interest in manipu—
lating an instrument, the response has been favor-
able. Where they have been turned over to the
men who could play legitimate instruments. the
response was poor for the simple reason that the
challenge of successful performance was mediocre.

Where Horses Are $20 Apiece

At the desert stations of Africa, where horses
can be purchased for as little as twenty dollars, and

NOVEMBER 1944

 

{clams-6023mm: yous-43)

.. "a. , a; v-‘r

Courtesy Ladd Field, Photo Section.

The GI Joes wanted a recreation building. Their
sympathetic commanding otticer regretfully said
there was no lumber or labor available for the pur-
pose. Undaunted, by the use of native materials and
hard work in their leisure timeI they have com-
pleted the proiect shown here in its early stages.

where maintenance costs are nominal, riding, rac-
ing, and polo are bringing something new "to the
leisure lives of many young men whose only previ-
ous equestrian training was on a merry—go-round-
Procurement officials recently disapproved a requi-
sition for saddles and bridles because they were
disinclined to appropriate enlisted men’s funds for
equipment that seemed adaptable only for officers’
use. They reversed their decision, however, when
it was explained to them that reports from this
area frequently indicated riding, racing, or polo
games as “the greatest morale improving factor of.
the month.”

GI Joe Expresses Himself!

The hundreds of weekly niimeographed station
newspapers which have begun publication within
recent months at overseas installations are indicative
again of man’s natural desire to be self-expressive,
and it is encouraging to see that all who edit them

428 CI JOE MAKES A DISCOVERY

or contribute to them are not former newspaper
men. A recent contest conducted among Air
Transport Command station newspapers and de-
signed to encourage discussion of what the war is
about and what might be hoped for in the way of
international relations leading to a permanent
peace, produced emphatic evidence that our men
in the Service are not (as frequently reported)
prepossessed with the desire to get back home to
to the exclusion of all constructive thinking as to

why and to what end they are fighting.

Further evidence of this fact is found in the
numerous groups of men who voluntarily devote
considerable leisure to preparation for a weekly
debate or panel discussion or quiz contest on sub—
jects relating to America’s participation in the war
and the problems of reconstruction which will need
attention when the last shot has been fired. Many
of the most eager participants, it has been found,
never had a chance to express themselves in pub
lic before. Leadership for postwar reconstruction
and for permanent peace is in the making. This
study and thought and exchange of ideas will not

have been in vain!

Evidence of prewar America’s five thousand lit—
tle theater groups and of its starry—eyed hordes of
stage~struck youngsters is found in the thousands
of original dramatic productions our GIs have
staged. Each new production invariably includes
in its cast men who heretofore have been mere
spectators. A shortage of first-class entertainers
has also contributed to the desire of the GI to

produce his own.

Obstacles Must Be Overcome

Of course, all is not so rosy as the foregoing may
lead one to believe. Recreation in the Army has
had its difficulties among which the following will
arouse a sympathetic interest among readers of
RECREATION: The playground director who be—
lieves that the best way to keep his proteges from
juvenile delinquency is to give them so much
strenuous physical activity during the day that
after supper they will be ready to go to bed has his
Army counterpart in the officer who insists that
venereal disease rates can best be kept at a mini~
mum by working the men so hard and so long that
they are ready only for bunkfatigue after chow.
The parent who insists his children might better be
working than spending leisure hours on the play-
ground or at the recreation center appears in the
Army as the officer who refuses to authorize ath—

letic fields because inspectors, seeing them used,
would say that there is a surplus of manpower at

the station.
The city fathers who pound the table and vo-

' ciferously proclaim that children don’t have to be

taught how to play are sometimes found in the
Army in the guise of officers who insist that.per—
sonnel need not be assigned to conduct recreation
activities --—- that all that is needed is an ample
quantity of supplies and facilities and sufficient
custodial and maintenance personnel to look after
them. Popular, too, is the belief that recreational
leadership is just another administrative duty, and
that a month’s schooling can make a Special Ser-
vice Officer out of anyone qualified to be an officer.

At present, emphasis in leisure programs antici-
pates termination of hostilities in EurOpe, at which
time, in all probability, many ground and service
force personnel will be demobilized, while others
must remain in uniform for some time in the far
places of the world. Seeing their home town bud-
dies returning to civilian life and good jobs while
for them “the duration and six months” stretches
out indefinitely, naturally will result in restless-
ness unless our men feel that they are not just
marking time.

In anticipation of this problem, men are being
encouraged to take advantage of opportunities for
self—improvement available in leisure education
classes on or immediately off the station, as well
as correspondence study and self teaching materials
available through the U. S. Armed Forces Insti-
tute and its far-flung branches. Research studies
are in progress which will enable Special Service
Officers to provide educational counseling which is
valid in terms of postwar vocational opportunities.

Along with manpower conservation, more and
more volunteer leaders are being drawn into the
program, and every effort is being made to stimu—
late interest in leisure activities in which active
participation is the essence of enjoyment.

“National defense calls for a lot more than mili-
tary service or even defense production. There are
hundreds of services that need to be done in every
city in the United States. Someone needs to or-
ganize recreation, for instance, for soldiers and for
workers and their families. . . . Health, happiness,
and strength are the backbone of defense. When
military defense is over, home defense will be as
much needed as ever. There will be no end to the
job of defending America against disease and un-
happiness.”——-Dazrfd C ushman C oyle.

RECREATION

Army Hospital Recreation

RMY HOSPITALS the world over,
A including sixty large general
hospitals in the United States alone, plus Air
Force rest hospitals and sectional hospitals, are
putting on an entertainment and recreation pro-
gram through their Special Service officers and
Red Cross personnel. They offer all types of rec-
reational activities from bedside games to patient-
produced shows. Among other things they send
out.a Soldier Show conference team that sets up
patient show programs.

This is the first large scale attempt to put into
effect the full advantages of recreational therapy as
.‘ an aid to the rehabilitation of soldier patients. The
basic theory of this hospital recreation program is

to occupy the patients healthfully in self-entertain-.

ment and recreation so that
' they will have less time to
worry about their own

Everyone enioys a puppet show—children on
playgrounds and servicemen in hospitals, whoI

By A‘ D' FABER troubles. Although the program has

just started, reports indicate amazing
patient response and activity and, where the full
program is in effect, astounding results. This hos—
pital program is being welcomed by the soldiers
who find it makes their hospitalization less boring.

Puppet Shows

Up to the present time puppetry programs in
hospitals have relied on the expert guidance of an
experienced puppeteer. This is no longer true, for
the entertainment and recreation section of Special
Services Division of the Army has worked out a
simple, successful hospital puppet program.

This program does not need an expert to put it
over or experts to put on the shows. It takes ad—

vantage of the already
established activities and

(Continued on page 440)

these days, ére putting on their own shows

l.)l§lf~\ RTMENT 0f PA thS

l’lil’l’l: l‘ 

hiARlONETTE ,

THEATRE

NOVEMBER 1944

 

Courtcsy New York City Park Derarm'mir

429

Bowling in Recreation and Physical Education

a r
Q 9 '
' we:

‘42, I . a i..'.‘.-..._.—-‘-:. _. .__.. 3 r 2.» .

HE JUNIOR high school in my

home town, where some years

ago I served as coach and
physical director, had an' excellent gymnasium but
lacked equipment and apparatus. How to develop
activities which would have a recreational as well
as a physical value for the students was the prob-
lem I faced.

One night, after visiting the bowling alley in
our community, the idea came to me of using
bowling in the school program. But just how was
bowling to be used? Where could we get the
equipment? And how was it to be paid for since
no school funds were available?

It was at this point that my experience as a
pin boy in my youth came to the rescue! I re-
membered that during lulls in the day’s business
we pin boys played a game called “Eight Out.”
Lots were drawn, and the unlucky boy would go
down and set up the pins and continue setting
them up until someone failed to knock down eight
pins with two balls. When this happened, the boy
who had been playing would go down to the pit
and remain there, setting up the pins until another
boy failed to reach the necessary quota. Some-
times one boy would set up pins a long time be-
cause some of us grew. very expert with our roll-
ing! Much of our knowledge and skill was
acquired through practice and observation of the
regular bowlers in action who were generous with
pointers on the game if they happened in when
we were playing Eight Out.

This method with slight alterations could, I de-

430

By PATRICK A. TORK
West Virginia Urflversity

 

cided, be used to advantage in the
school program.

The problem of equipment was
overcome through the cooperation of two local
bowling alley managers and their interest in boys
and girls. We asked these managers to give us for
school use the pin and ball sets which they dis-
carded each year. This they gladly did, and we
were given several sets of duck pins and balls.

After experimenting with the equipment in the
gymnasium, I came to the conclusion that provi-

sion for bowling could be most effectively made by\

taking three of our 6’ by 12’ mats, rolling them
lengthwise and placing them at one end of the
gymnasium in the shape of a U. The open ends of
the U were slightly spread to act as a bowling pit.
In this position the mats would catch the stray
balls and act as a break for them after they came
through or missed the pins. This worked out very
satisfactorily. .

My physical education classes at the Barnes
School consisted of fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth,
and ninth grade boys, and fifth and sixth grade
girls. In each of the classes bowling was offered
as part of the activity program. Its reception by
the students was very enthusiastic.

The activity was organized along the line of
Eight Out previously described. In order to take
care of several bowlers at one time and not occupy
too much space in the gymnasium, groups of eight
to twelve students were organized to bowl at the
same time on each of the alleys. Most of the time
one and two alleys were utilized, and the balance

RECREATION

'

BOWLING IN RECREATION AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION 431

of the gymnasium was given over to other activi-
ties. This arrangement permitted a rotation and

variety of program during the same period. By
using the Eight Out game several students, with
the possible exception of the pin setters, could
bowl on the same alley with practically an equal
number of rolls for each. .

From each bowling group two students were
selected to set up the pins. The others were ar—
ranged in bowling order, and the game started.
According to our rules, the first student who failed
to knock down eight pins with two balls was
obliged to replace one of the pin setters who would
then take his or her place in the bowling order.
In this way each received a regular turn at bowl-
ing as long as he continued to knock down eight
pins with two balls. The next bowler who failed
to bring down eight pins changed places with the
second pin setter. This continued until the bell
automatically terminated the game at the end of
the period.

In order to prevent damage to the floor and
equipment and eliminate injuries, a few simple
rules were observed:

After the first ball was rolled, one of the pin
setters would pick up the ball and retain it; if
there were any dead pins on the alley the other
setter would remove them to the rear of the stand—
ing pins. After the second ball had been rolled
and retrieved, both were returned, one at a time,
with a slight push. Sufficient time was allowed
between each return of balls- to permit safe re—
covery by the bowler awaiting his turn at the other
end of the alley. The balls were stopped by first
stepping on them with a sliding forward movement
of the foot. This made recovery rather easy. Loft-
ing the balls in rolling was prohibited to prevent
denting the floor, and additional precautions were
taken to eliminate all possible ‘damage.

Noon Hour Bowling

In addition to its use in the physical education
classes, bowling had an important place in the
noon hour program. Many students brought their
lunches, and a regular program of free play was
provided in which bowling was included. The
bowling area was set off by a net 7 feet high and
60 feet long, making possible the use of the balance
of the floor for several other activities. Many times
members of the faculty who brought their lunches
would bowl with the students. .

In order to meet the age differences and varied
abilities of the classes, the alleys were lengthened

NOVEMBER 1944

or shortened to meet the needs of each group. The
lanes were always marked off in white chalk which
could be easily erased at the end of the playing
period. To lay off the pin spots, a form was made
with four yardsticks arranged in triangular shape
with a crosspiece through the center and holes
bored through the sticks at proper intervals to
represent the pin spots. By placing the form on
the floor in the correct position, then marking
through the holes in the form. with white chalk,
ten chalk impressions were made to represent the
regulation pin spots.

Bowling as a Source of Revenue

It is sometimes necessary for schools to raise
funds for activities essential in the education pro-‘
gram. Money is occasionally needed for the pur—
chase of new equipment and apparatus for the
gymnasium and for other materials which boards
of education may not be able to provide. To meet
these needs a special bowling program may be
organized for afterschool classes, and a small fee
may be charged.

Many schools put on annual carnivals or fairs
to raise funds. At one such event in our school
bowling was made one of the side attractions. A
small fee was charged for each roll, with prizes
offered for various achievements such as knocking
down all the pins with one ball. For this another
roll was given, and small candy prizes were also
offered. Mothers and fathers, as well as other
friends of the school, participate most enthusiasti-
cally in such an event, and students need no en-
couragement to take part.

When they had seen a bowling demonstration,
had observed the arrangement of equipment and
the plan for group bowling, and had played some
games, the students readily saw the possibilities
for school and community use of bowling. Many
of the graduate students taking the summer
courses made immediate plans to introduce bowl-
ing into their programs.

“Bowling is one of the oldest of our present-day
sports, its history dating back to the 13th century.
Throughout these many years several variations
have been made. It has been developed in Eng-
land especially. . . . In the 17th century the Dutch
brought the game to America. The outdoor game
of ‘lawn bowls’ is still played in many parts of the
country, but the indoor game is more popular and
is about a hundred years old.”—From Bowling
for Beginners by Dorothy Smnption.

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

” GRICULTURAL Science to Serve Youth,”

by \Narren Peter Everote. Columbia Uni—
versity Press, New York. 79 pp. $1.85. Contri—
butions to Education, No. 901. This book is the
result of a course in experimental science for sec-

ondary-school students.

3’

‘ “Dogs for Democracy, by Thomas Young.
Bernard Ackerman, Inc., New York. 32 pp. $1.
The story of America’s Canine Heroes in the
global war.

Fabre, Henri. “Wild Fields,” by Irmengarde
Eberle. Oxford University Press, Toronto, Can-
ada. $3. The story of Henri Fabre, the great
French entomologist.

Farming. “Roots in the Earth,” by P. A. War—
ing and W. M. Teller. Harper and Brothers, New
York. 198 pp. $2.50. A plea for the “little farmer”
by two Pennsylvania farmers.

Fishing. “The Incomplete Angler,” by John
I). Robins. William Collins Sons and Company,
Toronto, Canada. $3. 3

Geography. “The Geography of the Peace,” by
Nicholas John Spykman. Edited by Helen R.
Nicholl. Harcourt, Brace, and Company, Inc.
New York: 66 pp., maps. $2.75.

Museum Volunteers of the Chicago Museum of
Science and Industry. ‘More than 500 children
between the ages of six and seventeen have made
application to participate in the youth volunteer
program of the Chicago Museum of Science and
Industry. These young pe0ple receive instruction
in rules and purposes of the museum and assist
with volunteer tasks. It is planned eventually to
include hobby groups and museum craft project
as a part of the program.

Nature Play. Ben-Cummings, nature activity
man for the Public Recre-
ation Commission of Cincin—
nati, has gotten out a series of
ingenious mimeographed direc-
tions to playground leaders
that have been united into a
booklet entitled Nature Play.-
Space here permits only listing

"All too many

432

of us limit our enjoy—
ment of life by ignoring some of the
most interesting and enthralling every-
day happenings. Right in our midst
nature is daily putting on a show
that far surpasses anything that has
ever yet been produced."——Getald
Saltets in Of M atual Interest.

a few of the lively projects: First Settlers Camp at
the Airport where 300 children had gardens,
horses to ride, and were hauled back to the bus
line in an oxcart by real oxen; Mound Builders
Camp at the Walnut Hills Playground, based on
mound building and Indian lore; a traveling camp
which was really a farmyard 200 with goats, hens,
pigeons. The farmyard was set up at a new play-
ground each day. It even kept children from
swimming—it was so thrilling. There was a
Nature Guide Club to train junior leaders, and
Ranger and Rangerette Clubs on the playgrounds.
The whole booklet is full of charm, excitement, and
“come hither.” We repeat what we said a year
ago. “Watch Cincinnati’s nature program !”

N ew Yark State Teacher Colleges recently held
an outdoor leadership institute at National Camp.
Delegates from the eleven college centers lived and .
cooked in the open, went bog trolling and studied
stump diaries. New Jersey teacher colleges held
their institute, each college sending six to eight
student delegates.

Photography. “Nature and Camera,” by Oliver
G. Pike. Focal Press Limited, 31 Fitzroy Square,
London W.I, England. 13s. 6d. Summing up
fifty years’ experience in photographing flora and
fauna.

N ew Trailside 1|! useum in Cleveland. A com—
paratively new development in Cleveland, Ohio, is
the establishment of a trailside museum in Gordon
Park by the city Park Department. A large field
house has been rema'de into a museum, and a near-
by area is being planted as a wildflower garden
and nature preserve. Through a cooperative ar—
rangement with the Cleveland Museum of Nat-
ural History, Dr. Arthur Williams will administer
the program. Dr. Williams also has charge of the
trailside museums of the Met-
ropolitan Parks.

Soil. “The Land We Live
On,” by Carroll Lane Fenton
and Mildred Adams Fenton.
Doubleday, Doran, and Com-
pany, Inc., New York. 89 pp.,
illus. $2.50.

( C outinued on page 442)

RECREATION

1 WORLD AT PLAY .

DURING Book \Veek

there will be 500
American children’s
books on display in London. Afterward the ex-
hibit will be broken up into twelve traveling units
which will be sent progressively to cities all over
England. At the same time we will have here in
New York, at Columbia University, 500 English
books on display. —- From Publisher’s I/Veekly,
August 26, 1944.

United Through Books

SANTA Barbara is pre—
paring a big reception
for its “Johnnies”
when they come march-
ing home from war. Johnny’s younger brothers
and sisters and cousins and friends are going to
town whipping a band into shape for the day of the
great return. Under the aegis of the city recrea-
tion department, instruction in band and orches-
tra is being given five days a week at schools and
playgrounds. The only prerequisite for participa-
tion in these “jam sessions” is a willingness to do
the necessary practising. \
Ten thousand citizens of Santa Barbara went

Getting Ready for
the Boys

NOVEMBER 1944

A Use for Discarded

 

out last fall to raise funds for a civic and recreation
center. For five months they worked on a money
raising campaign which was successfully com-
pleted in June. A building was purchased and
deeded to the city. Plans are underway for re—
modelling it to suit the varied needs of the com-
munity." The finished building will have auditori-
ums, craft studio, gymnasium, conference rooms,
play rooms (for adults and young people), and
kitchens.

NOT the least impor-
tant use for discarded
Christmas trees is to
provide food for birds.
\Vhen the tinsel is removed and the tree set out of
doors, it can be made attractive to the birds with
bits of apple'and suet and strings of popcorn and
cranberries. The fallen needles will retain their
fragrance for a long time if collected and put into
small boxes. The trunk of the tree cut into prOper

lengths will afford receptacles for growing spring
bulbs.

Christmas Trees

IOWA City and Fort
Dodge, Iowa, on June
5, 1.944, voted in favor
, of establishing year-
round recreation systems. Iowa City recorded
1,129 favorable votes and 403 noes, while voting
in Fort Dodge brought out 737 ayes and 555 noes.

They Voted “Yes” for
Recreation

MORE than ten states
were represented at
the sixth annual Folk
Dance and Recreation
Camp held during September at Oglebay Park in
Wheeling, West Virginia. The camp program in-
cluded different phases of recreation, emphasizing
singing games and folk dances, folk crafts, music
and outdoor cookery. One special feature was the
“Workshop Hour” during which time there was
a general exchange of songs, games, dances, home
and community recreation ideas.

Folk Dance Camp at
Oglebay Park

Bovs and girls who
had learned to swim
and had taken the
American Red Cross
lifesaving courses in Philadelphia’s municipal pools
applied in large numbers last summer for assign-

Boys and Girls to the
Rescue!

433

434
With the
A R- M Y

N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every fighting
front; in every branch of the service.

The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war from as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion.

‘ DIAMOND '(ALK

 HORSESHOE co.

46|0 Grand Ave., Duluth, Minn.

’

 

ments as lifeguards and swimming instructors.
Being thoroughly familiar with the routine of the
pool, the methods of teaching and the swimming
‘ te'sts, they were welcomed with open arms.

For a number of years these boys and girls have
been volunteer assistants in the pools, serving as
locker boys and girls, and in this way have gained
valuable experience. .

Over 80 per cent of the lifeguards and instruct-
ors assigned during the 1944 season were proteges
of the pools under the jurisdiction of the Bureau
of Recreation. In addition, a number of veterans

discharged from the Navy after overseas duty
served as” lifeguards.

Altoona Junior Story League—The Altoona,
Pennsylvania, Junior Story League has a mem-
bership of thirty girls—SOphomores, juniors, and
seniors in high school. Monthly meetings are held
at the home of their adviser where stories are told
and discussed. Many of the girls spend their after—
noons at the city playgrounds telling stories.

American Ballad Contest—On June 20th
New York City’s Department of Parks held its
tenth annual contest for Barber Shop Quartets.

WORLD AT PLA Y

Fifteen quartets, winners in borough contests, held
earlier in the summer, competed for War Bond
prizes. The audience took an active part in the
proceedings when they followed the U. S. Coast
Guard Band from Manhattan Beach in community

singing.

Flint, Michigan—Still Making Music—In
Flint, Michigan, the Community ‘Music Associa-
tion continues “coordinating musical activities in
the life of the people from kindergarten through
old age.” Here are a few excerpts from the An-
nual Report of the Association for 1943-44 that
seemed worth noting—as reminders, perhaps?

“Community music is not a kind of music, but
rather includes all kinds of music used for the
benefit of all the people. Those who grow to ex-
perience the keenest thrill from the finest music
well rendered, enjoy the most permanent values.”

“The amateur spirit of singing and playing for
the enjoyment of participation and the joy to list-
eners is the mission of the Flint Community Music
Association.”

“Character deve10pment, wholesome, leisure—
time, interest for a life time, self—realization, to
serve as a music clearing house, to unify Flint, are
the purposes for which the founders brought the
Association into being. Culture is a by-product.”

“Music is the greatest preventive of juvenile de-
linquency if properly administered in early life.”

Niagara Falls Reports—Myron N. Hendrick,
Director of Recreation in Niagara Falls, New York,
reports that last summer the city conducted twenty-
one playgrounds with a greatly increased attend-
ance and unusual interest in the arts and crafts
program, which was climaxed by a display in a
prominent downtown store window. The highlight
of the summer swimming program was a. learn—to-
swim campaign in which I32 children were en-
rolled. One hundred and sixty-two boys between
the ages of nine and fourteen took part in the
junior baseball program initiated this year.

The Union County Park Commission Con-
siders Its Program—At a meeting of the Union
County, New Jersey, Park Commission it was
pointed out .that 80 per cent of the park system’s
area was acquired during the first eight years of
the Commission’s history (1922—1930), about 10
per cent during the past fourteen years (I930-
1944), leaving about 10 per cent yet to be acquired
of the 4,450 acres in authorized park projects. Of

RECREATION

"Milli/e file/n jerk: is molding
and ro Hing, I’m in Me Pin k! ”

    

As Penicillin, mold is a boon to humanity. But
it's murder on ordinary athletic equipment!

In the extremely humid South Pacific iungles
where the annual average rainfall is 120 inches,
the sticky, steaming dampness quickly pene-
trates everywhere. But VOIT Synthetic-Rubber-

Covered Athletic Equipment is not affected!

’3’" t’

 "3% ’ 

flu.» ' :

I .2

y - .o.I+ _ "1
. ' "'5’ e I'

, _ . .

l i I

.- gull b 1% ,

O

_ I r -
u: 

g I .

Voit Basketballs, Footballs, Soccer Balls, Volley

Balls, Soft Balls, Water Polo Balls, and Home
Plates do not deteriorate. The rubber surface
resists the ruinous ravages of high humidity,
fungus, and mildew. That’s another reason
why it’s known as the service surface. ..first

choice on the home-front, too! .

BUY WAR BONDS REGULARLY
Hang On To Those You Have

©U ? SYNTHEIlC-RUBBER-COVERED
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

Mfgd. by W. J. Voiit Rubber Corp.)
1600 E. 25:}. St., Los Angeles 11, Calif;

Chicago Branch 180 No. Wacker Drive ‘Zone 

 

NOVEMBER 1944

’3);

435

436 WORLD A T PLA Y

 

-

TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS "IN ACTION: IN THE SPACIOUS GAME ROOM OF THE
N. C. C. S.-USO CLUB LOCATED IN JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

This unique, PORTABLE Two—Way Bowling Alley (requiring NO INSTAL—
LATION COST!) is proving to be one of the leading game—units. now
included in RECREATION PROGRAMS all over the country. Because of
its E—Z set—up features, solid construction and convenient size, the
alley is perfectly adaptable for immediate use as well as for postwar

building plans.

We urge you to send for complete information and descriptive

literature including many. many letters praising the good, clean cam;
I O I 

petitive fun and relaxation derived from Two—Way Bowling.
the coupon today! No obligation.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828 0

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

the 471 acres obtained since 1930, 203 were pur—
chased, 215 donated, and 53 acquired by condem-
nation proceedings.

The earliest plans and maps of the Commission
stressed the importance of preserving the river
valleys and of acquiring at the earliest opportunity
the necessary lands for theultimate needs of the
public, especially because of Union County’s
destined rapid growth in that New York metro-
politan area. The county’s population gain from
1920 to 1930 was 54 per cent, while the state
gained 27 per cent and the country gained 16 per
cent. Twelve of the municipalities in the county
have more than doubled their population since
1920, and one has increased sixfold.

During the past twenty-two years the assessed
values of rhea] estate throughout the county have
increased 85 per cent with accompanying increased

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
H4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..
Address .....................................................  .... ..

City ...................................... .. State ............... ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

 

tax revenues for the state, county, and munici-
palities—From Parks and Recreation, May-June

1944.

“Grid Wars Rage Thru 75th Year'L—Under
this title Lieut. Vincent DeP. Farrell, USNR, for—
merly recreation director of the West Side High
School of Newark, New Jersey, has prepared a -
booklet in honor of the 75th season of football. '
The booklet gives something of the historical back-
ground of football, its vicissitudes and successes, '
the part it has played in college life and in the
recreation program of the armed forces.

It is suggested that anyone desiring a copy of
the booklet communicate with Dr. Margaret C.
Brown, president of Panzer College, East Orange.
New Jersey, which is distributing the booklet
through its scholarship fund.

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY 0 ' 437

An Overseas Package—A leader in the United

States Employment Service is sending a package
to about two hundred individuals who had formerly

been in the Service but are now overseas with the
armed forces. The package includes copies of the
National Recreation Association’s Community
Song Leaflet and Fun En Route, together with a
pin—up girl from Esquire,° a can of sardines, a
metal hinged soapbox, and a blackout lighter.

Tenth Annual Chicago Conference —-— The
theme of Chicago’s tenth Recreation Conference
to be held November 22, 1944, will be “Recrea-
tion—New Obligations, New Approaches.” Morn-
ing sessions will be devoted to workshop demon-
strations conducted by local groups and will, stress
methods of carrying on recreation programs. In
the afternoon small groups led by trained discus-
‘sion leaders will exchange ideas on topics related
to the general theme, “Recreation and the Com-
munity.” Following the afternoon discussions there
will be a period of fun and relaxation for those
who plan to stay through the evening general ses-
sion when there will be a dramatic summarizing of
the high points of the Conference, followed by an
address by Howard Y. McClusky, assistant to the
Vice-President of the University of Michigan and
former member of the American Youth Commis-
sion. There will be a luncheon at which Harry A.

Overstreet will speak on the theme of the Confer-
ence.

Recreation in Housing Developments—~Los
Angeles, California, has seventeen public housing
projects in which more than 15,000 children are
living. The Los Angeles Department of Play-
ground and Recreation, with money received from
Lanham Act funds, has employed recreation lead-
ers to work in these housing projects and is also
placing directors of youth activities in other neigh—
borhoods where such work has long been needed.

P.T.A. Provides Recreation Facilities—Fifty
families are associated with the P.T.A. of the York
school in Vinedale, Ohio, and they plan and carry
out recreational, social and education activities that
are outside the curriculum. One of their main
projects has been the provision of a playground
complete with running and bicycle track, soft and
hard ball diamonds, tennis, badminton, basketball

and volley ball courts. ShufHeboard and picnic

tables are in prospect—all to be provided by the
funds and labor of the P.T.A. members.

NOVEMBER 1944

f:

1.
I
:
. i:
i 
t i»
l_-
f
'4
F

 

FIGHTING wonns

0 Free speech! Free enterprise! The democratic way!
These are fighting words. Why? Because they picture
prizes of freedom worth fighting for—worth life itself.

Nowhere is the spirit of initiative, free enterprise, and
the democratic way of life taught so effectively as on

the playfields of America—where our youth grow up
in true democracy.

In these rugged competitive sports our future leaders,
in industry, science, agriculture, government, develop
not only their physical powers but a love of freedom

that will never be undermined from within or without,
if they can help it.

As they fight for a crucial victory on the gridiron—
they will fight any attempt by anyone to restrict the

rights and freedoms their forefathers gave their lives to
create and perpetuate.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.
Chicago. New York and other leading cities

llhbomlh

SP   M  agisalzitgiiillc-
IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Chicago Plant

438 POST-COLLEGE RECREATION

 

 

 

you Gan Use

THE JOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with-the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.
Published monthly, except July and August
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,

PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
IZOI Sixteenth Sh, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

 

Daniel M. Davis

ANIEL M. DAVIS, for eighteen years Superin-
tendent of Recreation in Wilmette, Illinois,

died suddenly on July 14, 1944. When the '

Wilmette Recreation Board was organized Mr.
Davis was selected as its first director and gave
continuous service from that time. He was active
in many village organizations and groups, and at
the time of his death was serving as chairman of
the Physical Fitness Program for the Office of
Civilian Defense. He organized and directed the
work of the Military Training Institute at New
Trier High School which has helped many North
Shore boys and young men make the difficult

adjustments from civilian life to the armed forces. _

Post-College Recreation
(Continued from page 401 )
ducted from both group teaching and safety angles.

The away-from-camp trips teach valuable tech-
niques. Students learn (sometimes the hard way)
that a twenty-five pound pack doubles its weight
(apparently) by the end of the trip, and that a
- little extra this and that tucked in may be the
cause of just .regrets. The primitive camp group,
by the end of the twenty-three day training period.
can go out in any direction from base, pitch camp,
cook a meal, and sleep in a comfortable bed of pine
boughs or willow reeds tied together.

The tall mountains near camp offer three splen-
did mountain climbing opportunities. To scale
Silver Lake range and look out from the top of
the plateau over the majestic panorama is an un-
forgettable experience. Somehow the sun shines

l
I
l

brighter, the skies seem bluer, the hills are greener,
from the top of a mountain. Against the sun the
girls are prepared with tinted sun goggles and
sunburn cream or lotion. Lipstick is applied
thickly, not for beauty’s sake but to keep the lips I
from chapping. The students know enough to take c
along drinking water and ponchos and small pup I
tents for shelter—for storms have come up unex-

pectedly even when weather reports were previ-

ously consulted. Tinned foods are taken along, (I
and extra clothing in case of temperature drops, I
and stout shoes, the first aid kit. Tenderfeet soon

learn not to overlook a single one of the safety I
precautions. ,

Although at the end of the season most of the
students go out into camp counseling jobs (records
show that 80 per cent of those enrolled in the camp
training course go to camp jobs throughout the
east and northeast, as far west as Montana, as far '
south as Virginia) all are equipped with training
that will last a life time. Perhaps some day they
may teach their own children how to pitch a tent
or cook a meal out-of-doors, or how to beach a
canoe or paddle without overturning, or how to
ski down a slope or pack a picnic basket. They
will get more fun out of it than they would sitting
in a stadium cheering on a college football team or
watch third baseman of a pro baseball team catch
a fly.

College heads may well ask themselves, in the
war period of suspended college sports, how long-
term, post-college recreation may be stimulated so
that college students may become doers instead of
watchers. If more leisure is to be an integral part
of the postwar world then post-college recreation
is, legitimately, a major concern of today.

 

An Achievement 'in Savings

The Treasury Department has announced that
School War Savings during 1943-44 by actual
count passed $600,000,000, with repofts still
coming in. The Department urges that boys and
girls continue the campaign to purchase a jeep,
plane, or ambulance or other equipment which will
bear the school’s name as War Savings sponsor.

The Treasury Department also announces that
since early spring the Treasury War Bond musi-
cal show, “Figure It Out,” has been produced in
at least twelve states. Information about free ma-
terials for staging “Figure It Out” may be obtained
from the Education Section, War Finance Divi-
sion, Washington 25, D. C.

RECREATION

 

SAVE US OUR RUINS

Save Us Our Ruins

HE BRITISH MAGAZINE, Architectural Review,

in its January 1944 issue proposes that “a few
of the bombed churches of Britain be selected to
remain as ruins, essentially in the state in which
the bombing has" left them; that they be laid out
and planted appropriately; and that they be re-
garded as permanent places of open-air worship,
meditation, and recreation, as national war .me-
morials of this war and focal points of picturesque
delight in the planned surroundings of the post—
war world.

“In the debates on the future of the city churches
nobody seems to deny that there were more of
them than the needs of congregations justified.
Should they be rebuilt, or should their sites be
sold to use the sums raised for erecting churches
‘in suburban areas with inadequate numbers of
churches? Both proposals will no doubt be fol-
lowed. The' Architectural Review’s is a third,
applicable to only a few; say two or three in the
city and one each in some other towns and cities.
The need for short services for city workers,
chiefly in the mornings and at lunch—time, is un—
deniable. The war has shown that such services
can be held in the open. Our climate does by no
means rule out open-air worship and open—air rec—
reation. The middle ages in Britain had their
church processions. Later centuries, ,right down
to the 19th, had a well-developed open-air life,
though not a spiritual one. Vauxhall, Ranelagh,
Spring Gardens, and many other worldly assembly
places attest that. Where chapels and altars are
still roofed and usable, open-air services should be
established and would be a welcome element in
the week—to-week life of the city. The ruined
churches which it has been decided to keep as
ruins would provide the best setting for them.
Seats would be distributed in such a way that quiet
prayer would also be possible.

“There is only a short step from quiet prayer
to meditation. One is as imperative a need in
the life of the city as the other. Both take the
office worker out of his daily routine into short
moments of a fuller and more genuine life, the life
of religion and philosophy—usually, in the un—
trainedfrmind, religion and philosophy applied to
some human problem of immediate urgency. The
ruins would encourage such an occasional retreat
into a spiritual world, a world apart though close
to the bustle of tram and car, a world in which the

NOVEMBER 1944

439

o In every field of sport in Profes-
sional. __Semi-Pro and Amateur Base- 
ball and Softball." in Universities.
colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
Goldsmith Sports Equipment is rec-
ognized as  hallmarlrnof quality' :
and unvarying performance. '

MncGREGOR-GOLDSMITH Inc.

may It I’INDLAY 515-. CINCINNATI IQ. OHIO; “IA.

SPORT PRODUCTS. Inc..

 

The Hanging of the Greens

(Continued from page 404)

now reached the point where people do not want
changes because they are listening for certain lines
and have a greater feeling of participation in some;
thing with which they have grown familiar.
Instrumental music is played while the Christ-
mas tree is lighted and the large candle taken to

the hall. The ceremony closes with the singing of
familiar carols. -

 

‘ —.—..._-.———.—

Attention! I
RECREATION DEPARTMENTS

COMMUNITY and CIVIC CENTERS

We supply Costumes on rental basis for

VICTORY and PEACE PAGEANTS
PERIOD PLAYS, OPERAS, and CARNIVALS
FOLK FESTIVALS. and DANCES

Accurate Period Costumes for Jr. and Sr. Hi. Schools

Wigs, Make-Up Masks, Heads, Accessories
VAN HORN & SON 811‘CIIESTNUT ST.

Established 1852 PHILA‘ 7' PA-
Theatrical Costumers

 

 

Army-Navy "E ’ awarded,

Man ufacturers. Cincinna h'. 0.

440

 

IMPORTANT NEW
RECREATION BOOKS!

FOLK DANCING IN HIGH SCHOOL
AND COLLEGE—Grace I. Fox

A sparkling collection of gay, colorful folk tunes
that wlll appeai to practically anybody with a sense
of rhythm. In addltion to complete music and direc-
tions for each dance, the author has included valu-

able teaching suggestions and unusually clever
illustrations. 8%”):11” $2.00

MODERN DANCE FOR THE YOUTH
OF AMERICA—Ruth Anderson Radir

How to do creative group work in modern dance is
explained simply and thoroughly In this important
book. The dance leader will iind here speclnc and

 

extensive suggestions for planning and conductlng
her program, Including valuable sections on how to
organize a dance club and how to plan and present
a recltal. 6” x 9” $2.50

ROLLER SKATING—Bob Martin l
(A new Barnes Sports Library title) I

This book on modern roller skating wlll surely appeal
to recreation ieaders as well as all skaters. The
skilled author outlines careful instructions for roller
skating in the “International Style." the interna-

tional standard for pleasure, tests and competltion.
6” x 9” $1.25 .

DOMINOES—Victor S. Palmer
(An addition to the Barnes Idle Hour Library)

Here is a simple explanation of how to play and
win at dominoes, followed by many actual illustrated
play situations. Contains complete plans for operat-
ing leagues and tournaments 1n clubs, church and

school groups. 5 $9” x 8” $1.25

A. S. BARNES AND COMPANY
67 West 44ft}: Street New York 18, N. Y.

' Memento Mori of scorched stone stands near to

flower, 'shrub and tree.

“For the mood of the ruins would not be wholly

solemn. Layout would vary according to what
aspect would be stressed. The city is in bad need
of more open spaces for people to rest and enjoy
their lunch-hour. Such open spaces would be
gained by the treatment of ruins here suggested,
especially if—as has been assumed for one of the
sites chosen—an adjoining office site can be taken
into the scheme. The standing debris, odd piers
of uneven height and rugged walls would prevent
layouts from falling into the mistake of official
formality and regimentation. Nothing is more
resented by the users of public squares and gardens
than the raised forefinger of an evidently educa—
tional city or borough parks committee.”

Children’s Book Week

Children’s Book Week, celebrating the 200th
anniversary of the publication of the first book for
children, has been announced for November 12 to
18, 1944. “United Through Books” will be the
theme of the Week, and it is suggested that an

effort be made to dramatize the idea “the people,
the nation, the world.”

 

 

ARMY HOSPITAL RECREATION

Army Hospital Recreation
( Continued from page 429)

personnel-in the hospitals, and through very sim-
ple yet theatrically effective puppets and stages,
enables the patients to put on their own entertain—
ing productions.

This is what happened at one of the large hos—
pitals, Mason General at Brentwood, New York,
where a group of 199 ward patients were offered
the "opportunity of putting on their own shows.
Nine different shows were put on, with twenty—one
patients participating. They produced a variety of
extemporaneous shows, using glove-like ha°nd pup-
pets, much simpler to operate than string marion-
ettes. There was everything from a satirical
doctor’s show skit lasting fifteen minutes to a two
hour musical show involving seven patients. One
of these shows was set in an hour and a half of
rehearsal and given the next day for the patients
in another ward.

Not only can ward audiences of fifty bedridden
men enjoy these shows, but patients who are able
to get about can see one of the better shows in the
recreation hall. The stage, with its two spotlights,
is planned for audiences up to a thousand or so,
and the puppets are easily seen by these large
audiences.

Puppets, by their nature, have a natural audi-
ence fascination, and the shows that these inex—
perienced men produced were enthusiastically re-
ceived. They supplied simple but good entertain—
ment, and excellent diversional activity.

Community Forests

MOST STRIKING has been the rapid development
of village, town, county forests in the United
States in recentyear's. These community forests
surely will have a deep infiuence on the people of
the United States in keeping up their interest in
nature, in making them more nature-minded.

Of course these community forests do have an
economic side. Many villages in Europe have re—
ceived a very considerable income from their town
forests. The magazine American Forests for
August 1944 reports the 4,428 acre forest of an
Alpine village of 2,600 people which not only pays
all taxes but provides an annual cash income of
around $100 to each family. ‘

Already there are about 2,000 community forests
in the United States and some of these have been
in existence for a good many years.

RECREATION

 

“STAYINTOWN” RECREATION 441

” Stayintown " Recreation

( Continued from page 418)
tion, and other special features in preparation
equally as interesting. Mobile Recreation will also
act as a clearing house so that when one commu-
nity originates some outstanding type of recrea—
tion program, it can be passed along to other com-
munities to enjoy. They in turn will repay in kind
when they uncover some unusual activity in their
midst.

As it has been done in this county, so can it be
done in other portions of the United States which
like Westchester have county—wide recreation or-
ganizations. Communities will begin to realize that
the good neighbor policy begins at home among the
towns lying in their county and district, and war—
time committees are already in existence to turn
‘wartime activities to those of peace. Such a_proj-
ect is already under way in Plymouth County,
Massachusetts, where eight or nine towns, pool—
ing their joint resources under the name of the
Massachusetts Bay War Recreation Defense
Council for the Entertainment of Servicemen, stand
ready at the conclusion of the war to put this co-
operative association to work on a civilian com—
munity basis. Here as in New York, the Pem-
broke Ration Board played a cooperative part.

Recently when an unsavory carnival played. in a
community best left unnamed, The H artsdale
Times said editorially in part: “We can hardly
expect boys and girls to develop honest standards
of amusement if we allow this sort of shoddy en—
tertainment. More in keeping with the kind of fun
our youth deserves are the ‘Stayintown Shows’
sponsored . . . by local Recreation Commissions
throughout Westchester . . . and hope that the
County Recreation Commission will renew its
efforts to provide this community with ‘Stayin-
town Shows.’ ”

And they will. For in W'estchester County,
Mobile Recreation has come to stay.

The citizens of Oneonta, New York, have had a
community forest of 1,212 acres and they have
been so pleased over the five year returns that they
have now planted more than 660,000 young trees.

Undoubtedly many communities considering ,

living war memorials will decide to establish com—
munity forests in honor of war heroes. These for-
ests will have great value for the children and
youth, will profoundly influence youngsters grow-
ing up during the postwar period.

NOVEMBER 1944

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
362 MARQUETTE - FOND ou LAC, wus.

 

Let's Have Living Memorials
(Continued from page 415)

One plan is to establish roadside picnic areas,
beautified by fine plantings of shrubs and trees,
with good water and arrangements for barbecues.
Another is the establishment of a sanctuary for
wild birds and still another the setting up of a
series of areas for the propagation of wild game.
One city project provides for the planting of trees
along its principal streets, each tree marked by the
name of the home town boy who fell in the war.

In Ohio there is already a movement well under
way to establish as a memorial to the State’s Thir-
ty-Seventh Division a great forest located on land
ruined by erosion and bad farming in a central
part of the state and equipped with cabins, fishing
ponds and picnic grounds. "“

To me it seems that this new idea of a living
memorial is one that should have the most serious
consideration from every community large and
small. Most of the boys who lost their lives in this
war, as in all wars, loved the out—of—doors. They
loved trees and swimming and fishing. They loved
cooking a good steak over an open fire. They

442 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

 

 

GREATER
UNDERSTANDING

AMONG peoples everywhere is the goal of

all who are interested in a better world.
Two potent aids to promote such understand-

ing are

OUR GOOD NEIGHBORS

( Revised Edition) "

and ‘

OUR UNITED STATES

These two books in the hands of teachers,
recreation leaders, young people’s groups will
do much toward making the peoples of Latin
America real and toward showing that, in
spite of a diversity of cultures, the people of
the United States are on their way to amicable
living with one another.

OUR GOOD NEIGHBORS contains reference data,
maps, projects, and crafts on Canada, Mexico,
Central Americanirepublics, and South Ameri-
can republics.

OUR UNITED STATES contains maps, reference

data, projects, crafts, and illustrations on
Alaska, the District of Columbia, and eleven
of the States of the Union.

Both for only $|.00 postpaid
60c each postpaid

(Payment must accompany all orders)

— — — — PLEASE USE THIS COUPON — — —— —

The Jones Publishinngo.
Dept. R

46|6 N. Clark Sin. Chicago 40. III.

B Please send me both Our Good Neighbors and
Our United States. I enclose $1.00.

I] Please send me ............................................................ ..

(one book only)
I enclose 60¢.

Name .................................................................................. ..

Address .............................................................................. ..

City ...................................... .. Zone ...... ..State .................. ..

 

loved shooting ducks and pheasants and rabbits.
Out of these things came the boys who made our
best fliers, our best sailors, our best fighters.

I think any or all of them would prefer to be
remembered by a forest or a game sanctuary or a
lake than by some useless and possibly ugly cast

iron statue or by piles of cannon balls hung round 1

with chains. All of them, some without ever know-
ing it until they had left the forest and lakes and
prairies of America, loved this wide, varied and
wonderful country passionately. Why not give
them memorials in the terms not of dead stone and
cast iron but of living trees and parks, lakes, and

clean streams.

NOTE; This article by Mr. Bromfield is used by per-
mission from his syndicated column, “A Voice from the
Country."

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 432)

S t. M ary’s Lake Camp, Battle Creek, Michigan.
The Kellogg Foundation Camp facility at St.
Mary’s Lake was operated for the benefit of Battle
Creek children last summer under the direction of
Arch F lannery, Superintendent of Recreation.
Approximately 600 children attended the camp
which is guided by a community council that has a
representative cross-section of various organiza-
tions.’

Trees. “The Woody Plants of Maine, Their
Occurrence and Distribution,” by Fay Hyland and

Ferdinand H. Steinmetz. University Press, Orono, '

Maine. 72 pp., illus., paper. 50 cents. University
of Maine Studies No. 59. This is a key to the
trees, shrubs and woody vines of the State of
Maine.

"Do Touch" Museums
(Continued from page 413)
the child of the narrow streets, alleys, and back-
yards into line with the child of Fortune—nothing
is denied him, the only limit is his capacity.

The activities of the Museum have certainly
broadened the outlook of many who are now
grown-up and out in the world. One boy has
chosen his career as a result of the work he learned
at the Geffrye. He is now working with a. pottery
firm—he found his talent on Saturday mornings.
Another boy wants to become apprenticed to an
architect when he leaves school. He learned a lot
about town planning at an exhibition held in the
Museum—Used by courtesy of London Calling.

RECREATION

NOW OFF THE PRESS! 443

Now Off the Press!

IN JULY WE INITIATED a Now—Off—the-Press col-'

umn for the purpose of notifying you of the
Association’s new publications. We told you then
of Recreation for Men ($1.25) and promised to
give you information about Parties A to Z, the
latest in our series of social recreation handbooks.

As the name indicates, there’s a complete party
in Parties A to Z for every letter of the alphabet—
twenty—six of them—with directions for games and
activities, and suggestions for refreshments and
decorations. Classified lists make it possible for
you to find easily the type of activity you want.
The price of this booklet is 75 cents.

Recreation I/Vhile on the Mend. This book has
been off the press only a short time, but it has been
‘very favorably received and gives promise of being
an exceedingly helpful publication and one which
will be in great demand. It suggests first of all
recreation activities for patients in hospitals and at
home—social activities, music, drama, arts and

crafts, hobbies, active games, and gardening in--

doors and outdoors. This is followed by a section
suggesting how to adapt activities to individual
and group needs. Included here are discussions of
recreation in military and naval hOSpitals, in hos—
pitals in general, recreation for the blind, deaf and
crippled, and for the patient in the home.

The final section deals with leadership and takes
up such questions as how to approach the patient
and arouse his interest and curiosity.

You will want this book, which may be secured

for $1.25.

What About Water Colors?

( Continued from page 399)

“feeble things”—the colors are strong and vibrant,
and the crisp, direct method of working with a
medium of detail is as essentially American as
apple pie and ice cream.

It is true that mistakes cannot be painted out.
Once on paper, a brush stroke stays put—but that
is all to the good. We can’t change it so we don’t
“niggle”——we stand by our guns. If it is too bad
we tear it off the block and start another. It
sharpens our perception to get the correct shape of
the shadow and the spot of light. We do all the
things Mr. Alger tells us to do in oils only with

an added accent on accuracy, for we can’t change
our work.

NOVEMBER 1944

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
365 MARQUET‘I’E o FOND ou LAC, wns.

 

Try it. First forget fear and self-consciousness,
then buy some good materials. Cheap water colors
and cheap paper produce all the disappointing re—
sults Mr. Alger has listed. As he has stated, you
will find the people in artists’ supplies stores very
helpful to beginners. Tell them you want a good
book of instruction. I find that an inexpensive
book The Direct Technique .of Water C 0107’ Paint-
ing, by Charles X. Carlson, is very explicit. His
directions for selection of materials, color chart
and instructive illustrations on composition and

methods will give the most doubting beginner a
flying start.

I find it is easier to work on paper that has been
dampened, so I use a block with edges glued on all
four sides. This gives a good secure surface on

which to work and keeps the dampened paper
from warping.

It is, of course, easier to work large——the best
effects are produced in bold strokes and fluid
washes leaving the white paper for highlights. A
little experimentation will determine your own
preference for painting surfaces.

444 JOINT PLANNING

2 unusual new books for recreation leaders——

The Singing
Caller

ANN HASTINGS
CHASE

assisted by
Seth Holcombe.
Caller

Shepherd Holcombe.
Fiddler

John Butler.lllus’rra+or

1w. unis my «room,
Mm n- “: aim":
Mm “.m- u"_"

For anyone who wants to learn or to teach the jolly
old square dances of early America this unique book
provides practical instructions. Original tunes and
words of the calls are printed in parallel columns
with directions for the dance steps and figures. Lively
sketches illustrate the text for 15 dances.

Size 8%" x ll”. $|.50

MARGARET K. SOIFER FIRELIGHT
ENTERTAINMENTS

17 complete campfire programs, full of “atmOSphere”
and adaptable to.any background, indoors or out.
Suggestions for costumes, stories, songs, stunts for
each program. “A book chuck full of new and in-
teresting programs.” Boys’ Clubs of America, Inc.

Illustrated. $|.50

ASSOCIATION PRESS
347 Madison Avenue New York l7. N. Y.

 

There are many kinds of water color paper. It
comes in large sheets, pads, sketch books, and
blocks with rough, smooth or matt finish. I prefer
working on a heavy paper with a rough- surface.-

Since I paint only for the enjoyment of it and
do not make pictures for exhibit or framing, I have

worked out a small set that is like Rebecca’s pink.

umbrella in Rebecca of Sunny Brook Farm—“the
dearest thing in life to me.” It is a small thumb—
nail box with concentrated colors, a block the size
of a post card, and a tiny metal water flask, the
top of which hooks on the side of the paint box. It

all fits easily into my purse—you know what
women’s purses are these days.

With this box I’m ready to sketch at the drop
of a hat and I have no inhibitions. I’d try the
Grand Canyon or the Taj Mahal without gulping,
and as for sunsets—the pictures no artist can paint
— I take them in my stride. But I’ve learned
to turn my back on them and revel in the long blue
shadows and the rosy reflected glow on highlights.

Come on in—the water color’s line!

Joint: Planning

' PEAKING ON THE SUBJECT of joint planning by
S public and private agencies in the postwar
period for leisure—time services for youth, George
Hjelte, Superintendent of Recreation in Los An-
geles, California, cited the following aspects of the
youth problem which might well be anticipated in
the postwar period:

The return of adventurous, unadjusted youth
to local communities and a greater spirit of ad-
venture on the part of youth who, having been too
young for military service, have remained at home.

A probable increase of transient youth who be—
cause of their age have missed the opportunity for
adventure in the armed services, but who seek a

substitute and leave home to roam the country.

If there should be great unemployment, some will
leave home as they did during the early years of
the depression.

Unassimilated youth who have taken up resi-
dence with their parents in new communities but '
have not become members .in a real sense of the
community. Until they have made new friend--
ships, become members of neighborhood groups,
and have come under the influence of youth pro-
grams many will become behavior problems.

Wounded and shell—shocked youth or youth
otherwise rendered inadequate because of the
strains of wartime.

Youth of minority groups who will seek recog-
nition and will assert presumed rights bordering l
on license.

Neglected and forgotten youth—the harvest of I
wartime preoccupation on the part of parents due
to compulsory military service or employment in
war industry.

Youth with extraordinary premature mechanical I
abilities and precociously acquired skills, some of
whom will affect the manners of mature persons
and others of whom will live adventurously as did
the youth in prewar days who terrorized their
neighbors by reckless driving in stripped cars.

Youth who have married prematurely.

 

 

Buy War Bonds!

As this issue of RECREATION goes to press, the
Sixth W ar Loan drive is getting under way. “Your
country is still at war—are you?” is the question
the Treasury Department is asking each one.

RECREATION

TO BE REMEMBERED 445

I' To Be Remembered

HERE IS NO QUESTION that leisure is a good MagaZ'nes and Pamphlets

thing. It doesn’t follow, however, that all so-

' called leisure-time activities are beneficial. As an i
example, consider the rather futile results of the
physical education programs in many schools.

Between 1910 and 1930, cities and towns ex-
perienced an upsurge of commendable civic con-
sciousness and erected many imposing senior and
junior high schools. In addition to shops, kitchens,
art rooms and libraries, the schools had gleaming,
Spacious gymnasiums, with the accompanying col-

I lege accoutrements of locker rooms, showers and

' charts and graphs for recording heights and

 

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 1

 

MAGAZINES

Parents' Magazine, October 1944
Let Them Have Their Music, Elmer Munson Hunt
Nature' Study—Three Flights Up, Louella M.

Mockett

Beach and Pool, September 1944
See-saw for the Drowned, Matt Bartley Smith

American City, October 1944

War Memorials That Further Practical Democracy
Postwar Planning As a Joint City-County Project,
Andre M. Faure

Childhood Education, September 1944_

L weights.“ At this point calisthenics became old-
fashioned. The physical culturists wanted the em-
phasis put on group games. It was not the mode
to teach boys and girls to develop lungs and
muscles. The important things were cooperation,
mellow attitudes and learning to be followers, plus
games for later-life leisure-time activities. Un-
fortunately, as it seems to some, at the same time
the fancy gymnasiums came into being there was
a movement to carry pupils to school in buses.
Perhaps it was felt that if a youngster walked a
mile or a mile and a half to school he would be too
weary to cooperate enthusiastically in tap-dancing
and folk games of Balkan tinge.

Leisure is a lesson learned as one lives. There
is leisurely living as well as leisure-time activities.
Many adults know that their most enjoyable times
are periods when they are free to follow their own
desires. Professional proponents of the art are in-
clined to be overzealous. It is a good thing to have
lessons in square dancing for urbanites; but the
whooper-up spirit of the affair may be a bit too
much for the middle-aged who prefer to eat less
and spend spare hours with a time—tried book, to
putter hit-or-miss fashion in a lilliputian garden,
or follow a work-alone hobby.

Perhaps the answer is organized activities for
othose who are predominantly extroverts, and self-
chosen fields for others. If one works in the midst
of people and in the web of human relationships,
'it is reasonable that the sweetest leisure will be in
quietness and peace. The total program is en-
couraging. There are state and national parks;
cities and towns spend moneys for supervised
playgrounds; schools have clubs of all kinds; our

outh organizations are aware of their duties.
Eecreation is a big and occasionally a strenuous

usiness. Leisure, we feel, should be a man’s

rOVEMBER 1944

All Children Are Human Beings (entire issue)

The Womans Press, October 1944
The Health and Recreation of Home Women, Marion
Olive Lerrigo

The Journal of the National Education Association,

October 1944
The Price of Physical Fitness, George D. Stoddard

Think, August 1944

Yachting in Wartime, Boris Lauer-Leonardi
Music for Industry, Philip J. Jacoby

Par/as and Recreation, September-October 1944
Recreation on Public Lands, Roberts Mann
Public Education Through Parks, Sub-committee on
Public Education, American Institute of Park
Executives

Minneapolis Parade Center May Be Postwar Project,
Karl B. Raymond

.Minnte Alan, October 1, 1944
Sixth War_ Loan (entire issue), \Var Finance Di-
vision, Treasury Department ‘

PAM PH LETS

The Paint and Clay Corner
A Wartime Service by the Newark Museum at Camp
Kilmer, N. J.
Newark Museum, Newark, New Jersey

A Handbook for UAW-C10 Recreation Leaders
International Recreation Office, UAW-CIO, 10 W.
W’arren St., Detroit 1, Michigan. Price 50 cents

Proposed Six-Year Program of Public Improvements
Long Term Improvement Program, Technical Com-
mittee of the Common Council, Milwaukee, Wis-
consrn

Floor Treatment and Maintenance Job Specifications
Hillyard Chemical Company, St. Joseph 1, Missouri

Arts and Our Town, A Plan for a Community Cultural
Study
The Association of the Junior Leagues of America,
the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York 22, New
York. Price 50 cents

The Care and Construction of Tennis Courts
1945 Edition, United States Lawn Tennis Associa-

tion, 120 Broadway, New York 5, New York.
Price 25 cents

Working with Organized Labor
E. C. Worman, Association Press, 347 Madison
Avenue, New York 17, New York. Price $1.25

 

 

private business. Some happy day there may be

time enough to get caught up on our reading.—
From “Uses of Leisure,” The New York Tin/res,

September 4, 1944.

446 ROLLER SKATANA

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MU NICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the adminiStration aspeCts of
their department and its correlation with other departments of city government. Special emphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play-
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and
reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each

lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfaCtory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently wrote, "Trnt/afnlly I cannot remember any
ejfort on my part which has paid a)? in dividend: so quickly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
|3|3 Easf 60th Street. Chicago 37. Illinois

Roller Skatana

N AN INTERESTING ARTICLE on the development
I of roller skating, Roland C. Geist states that
roller skating dates back to about 1863 when
James L. Plimpton invented the skate on four
wooden rollers set in pairs. It became very popu-
lar as a Sport with Europeans and spread to
America. The early roller skates were made with
wooden wheels and attached by leather straps.
Today we have fiber and aluminum wheels and a
noiseless model for use in professional roller

° skating shows.

Professor Odell of Columbia University states
that the years 1884-85 were times of roller skating
madness, when skating to band music was the
delight of youngsters and older people. Roller
skating rinks were opened in abandoned ware-
houses and factories. In 1885 an international
roller skating tournament was held at Madison
Square Garden which lasted six days. In about
two years the craze died down, but in 1906 roller
skating again became popular as a number of popu-
lar songs testify. According to figures from the
1939 census (the latest available) the number of

roller skates reported sold was 3,454,382; of ice
skates, 1,128,185.

 

The new hobby of Roller Skatana is the collect-
ing of all items related to roller skating. Few
books have been published on the subject. One of
the most complete is Amateur Roller Skaters Hand
Book published in 1943 by the Amateur Roller
Skating Association. However, there are some old
foreign publications on roller skating which were
printed in England, Germany, France, and H01-
land. Other collections consist of the skate itself,
of songs, and trade cards. The most popular item
of all is the rink label usually attached to the
skater’s suitcase. A rink at Colorado Springs has
a collection of several hundred on its walls. Old
roller skating prints are very scarce since few have
been made. However, there are some available
showing the old rinks of 1885 in magazines such
as Harper’s Weekly. Skating costumes might be
collected to show the change of styles.

One of the most interesting and inexpensive of
all collectors’ items is the scrapbook, which may
be started at any time. Whenever an article ap—
pears in magazines or neWSpapers regarding roller
skating, it is clipped and pasted into the book. A
number of old magazines such as H arper’s, Leslie’s,
and Scientific American, to mention a few, con-

tain roller items. These may be purchased at any
old bookshOp.

RECREATION

HIGHWAYS TO NEW WORLDS 447

Highways to New Worlds

(Continued from page 423)

though she couldn’t give them quite that much
time she went for one week and held live fairs.
In 1944 Rockford will have ten fairs. The whole
community is conscious of the place of good books
in the life of the growing child.

Mrs. Tooze has many stories of the book hunger
of children, of parents, of teachers. In Milwaukee
250 parents, including a group of fathers, as-
sembled at 10 A. M. to hear her talk. Because she
was booked up she was unable to follow up her
talk with a fair there last fall, but the demand for
books was so great that school teachers agreed to
remain two hours after school each day fOr two
weeks to sell books which she would send them.
This fall Mrs. Tooze will hold seven fairs in Mil—
‘waukee—two of them in parochial schools, one in
a teachers’ college.

Lake County, Indiana, was worried abdut de—
linquency—as what community isn’t these days.
Boys of sixteen and seventeen who had never
read anything except the salacious literature which
was too easily available at any newsstand were
becoming a menace to the community. Mrs. Tooze
was asked if she would set up a book booth at the
County Fair in 1943; Her stall was cheek by jowl
with the noisiest concessions of the midway. But
at nine in the morning when she arrived there,
boys in the eleven to fifteen age group were lined
up outside waiting for her to take the sheets off
the exhibit. From 50 to 250 people were around
the booth all day long—fourteen hours a day.
These people didn’t know what it was to buy
books. To handle them, to look at them, to read a
little in them.was a tremendous experience in
itself. In June 1944, the Chicago papers reported
a complete clean-up of newsstands in Lake County.
Members of the community feel that this is partly
attributable to contact with good books at that
County Fair. Some of those boys who were prob-
lems are reading now.

Belvidere is a wealthy agricultural community
with no adequate resources for children. Until
very recently there were no recreational facilities.
Mrs. Tooze held a book fair there. After the
storytelling hour she told the youngsters—400 of
them—that they could come up and make them-
selves at home among the books. Within ten
minutes all but twelve of them had settled them—

selves to read. The books were supposed to be
packed and ready for Mrs. Tooze to take them

NOVEMBER 1944

’i’w’I’iWW ' ‘* Ba “5' w. r“ 12' Jane 

 

so a
. i, it
 .4
 ’l
is ”
k ’3
 

I i  I
1: notes! 3mm mam” .1
w '"lBERCUI-OH’ "l
hm. ma   I”: 

away by six o’clock. One youngster wanted his
mother, who worked until six, to see them. The
books were there when the boy brought his mother
in at 6:30.

Forty book fairs will be held in the fall of 1944,
in W isconsin. and Illinois, Michigan and Indiana.
Forty times during the fall children and their par-
ents and their teachers will find a new world open-
ing out to them. Forty times books and their
magic will feed into the life of a community those
things that are of the nature of faith because they
spring from the evidence of things not seen. Next
summer, as every summer, Mrs. Tooze will be
helping from six to eight thousand teachers to a
better understanding of the tools of their trade.
She is looking forward to a future day when a little
more leisure, perhaps, will 'enable her to train
other pe0ple to carry on this missionary work in
the challenging world of literature for children.
In the meantime she is busy doing what she can
for anyone interested, by the remote control method
of book lists and specialized bibliographies, by send—
ing out book exhibits, and by giving aid and com-
fort to any child welfare association and camp
group—everywhere.

Cooperatively Planned and Financed
(Continued from page 419)

the children’s own words: “The only days I’ve
missed here were those when I was out of town”;
and another: “I had to go to my grandmother’s
for the rest of the summer, but I’d rather have
stayed here and played with you.”

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

lt's Fun to Design
By Kathleen B. Kelly. Girl Scouts, New York. $.75.

IF DESIGNING is as happy an experience as'reading. this
book about it then it must indeed be “Fun to Des1gn.”
Kathleen Kelly, in thirty pages of delightful drawings and
clear, humorous explanations about them, has laid out all
the fundamental rules on learning to 'be a designer. Com-
position and color, balance and method seem very easy to
master after looking intO her rules. If anybody who has
read through the book can resist the impulse tO start

right in following its directions he is a real wonder!
6

Island on the Beam

By Josephine Blackstock. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New
York. $2.50.

RECREATION WORKERS will be interested in this book not
only because it was written by one Of their own num-
her—Josephine Blackstock has for many years served as
Director of Recreation in Oak Park, Illinois—but be-
cause of the story itself. Island on the Beam is full Of
interesting information about the island Of Malta which,
in spite of its prominence in the news, is unknown terri-
tory to most American readers. The book tells a thrilling
story Of immediate interest and introduces a group Of
characters who experience and endure nobly the most re-
lentless attacks the war has produced.

Miss Blackstock,has been asked to contribute a story

on Greece to the proposed collection of stories on children
Of the Allied Nations, soon to be published.

Christmas Carols for Secondary

Schook

By Arthur E. Ward and Doris E. Mooney. Harold
Flammer, Incorporated, New York. $.40.

THIS IS A NEW BOOK Of Christmas carols arranged for

young people. The selection Of the songs is varied
without sacrificing the Old and loved familiars. Varied,
too, is the arrangement. The editors have used descants,
solo parts, girls’ and boys’ voices separately to add
to the fun Of chorus singing. The accompaniments, too,
are simple. Not a five-flatter among them!

Fun with Clay

By Joseph Leemin-g. J. P. Lippincott and Company,
Philadelphia. $2.00.

N RECENT YEARS new clays have been deve10ped, clays

that can be fired or glazed in the kitchen oven or that
are self-hardening. With this development it has become
possible for anyone to know the joy Of working with clay.
Fun with Clay is designed to tell the beginner how to
start—what tools he will need, what techniques he must
learn, what decorations he can use on his finished pot.
Chapters on the potter’s wheel and kiln-firing are in-

cluded so that even at the outset the beginner may know
of these possibilities.

448

Keep Them Laughing

By Edna Geister. Harper and Brothers, Publishers, New
York. $1.50.

HE PHILOSOPHY which has come from Edna Geister’s

long experience in directing social recreation is pre-
sented here in popular style. Her latest book deals with
attitudes rather than techniques. You will not find direc-
tions for games, 'but you will learn the basic logic of fun-
making. Incidents and anecdotes out of the author’s own
experience enliven the text. '

« Social Recreation Primer
BEBE)? Tully. Brethren Publishing House, Elgin, Illinois.
LIKE ALL PRIMERS, this one deals with fundamentals. It

Offers advice on planning and carrying through social
activities for the small group. It includes sections on the
qualifications Of leadership, program building and evalu—
ation of an activity. Suggestions for games and other
social recreation activities are used as illustrative
materials.

Official Guides I944

A. S.- Barnes and Company, New York. $.50 each.

THE OFFICIAL GUIDES for. a number Of sports are now
available, among them' Track and Field Guide;

Lacrosse Guide; and Tennis Guide.

Also available are a number Of OHicial Guides for
Women, including Basketball (1944-1945) ; Field H ockey-
Lacrosse (1944-1945); and Soccer-Speedball-Field Ball
(1944-1946). These may be secured at 35 cents each.

 

 

OHicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEM IS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, \Vest Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, “lash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVTLLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass. '

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

