The Beautiful*

To me belongeth all that is beautiful everywhere.

The beautiful belongeth to me, to my wife, to my son,
to my daughter, forever and forever.

To you belongeth the beautiful,

To you and your wife and your son and your daughter forever and
forever.

Unto us is the beautiful given, unto all of us and to all the strangers
within our gates forever and forever.

Unto the entire world is the beautiful given that it may give joy
forever and forever.

What will I buy with my money?
What will I earn with my life?
What will I wish for my friends?
What will I Will for all?

I will seek after the beautiful, if haply I may find it.

The beauty of the little flower in the rock blooming in the snow,
The beauty of the little wooded island all covered with violets,
The beauty of the bird in motion,

The Wild goats silhouetted against the mountain top,

The deer in the woods,

The sunrise and the sunset over the waters,

The snowstorm.

The perfect building, the architect’s dream made real,

The music of the cathedral,

The symphony when you give all you have to listen to it,

The poem which reveals what you have wanted to say yourself,
The beauty of the Hebrew prophets,

The beauty of thought of the Greek philosophers,

The beauty of sound of the Greek language,

The beauty of the drama,

The beauty of the human body,

The athlete in motion,

The wistful smile of a little child,

The mother looking upon her child,

The beauty of simple, unselfconscious goodness,

The beauty of truth.

No such values are bought and sold at the market place.

 

* The recreation movement seems to me to try to remove the barriers so that all may enjoy what
is beautiful in the world—HOWARD BRAUCHER.

590 THE BEA UJTIF UL

1..

Buy the mountain top and‘fence it in.
Buy the land around the little lake and wall it in with stone.

Gather the wildflower plants from a thousand forests and ’wire
them in. - - '

Bring together in one place all the birds that sing in the early
" morning, -—-— - f ‘

And all their beauty may not be for you at all, at all.

Beauty is owned by the one who seeth it.

W

As a little child I had eyes but .I saw not.

I had ears but I heard not.

And someone came and made spittle of the clay at my feet

And placed it on my eyes and ears

And I began to see, hear, and feel beauty.

It was as though a smoked glass was removed.

I knew there was beauty.

I knew that I might search after beauty, if haply I might find it.

And now I know that the more I see today the more I shall be
capable of seeing tomorrow.

The world is full of beauty.
NO'one can give it to me.

Much of it I cannot see until my eyes grOw stronger.
until I have lived longer.

But there are many smoked glasses which friends can remove for me
If I have the will to see beauty.

To turn a world of beauty into a world of ugliness

Is a great crime. '

To keep back from men the full light of the beauty of the world
Is a great misfortune.

Most of us have faith in the beautiful,
That the beautiful will win.

Most of us highly resolve that the world
That can be beautiful

Shall be beautiful.
We will to pay the price.

The beautiful is important.
The beautiful does matter.
We believe that ugliness can be driven out by the beautiful.

We light that the beautiful shall forever live.

7Wo¢ @NWW

 

FEBRUARY I944

 

RECREATION

u
A

National Music Week Comes of Age j ,.

1TH ITS twenty- Sunday'   mark +he opening IVIUSiC VVCCk, the LEI".-

first annual ob— . . . ter of Suggestions
servance Opening ofthe I944 NationaIMustc Week.wnth recommends: ,‘

Sunday, May 7, 1944, its keynote;I I'Use Music to Foster Unity “The inter-church
National Music Week for “.16 War and “19 Peace +0 Follow“ programs, which have

comes of age, and pre- u been a feature of the
parations for the event . opening Sunday in
are already under way in hun- By C. M. TREMAINE many of the small and medium
dreds of cities and smaller com- Secrefary sized towns, are in the best tra-
munities. Synchronized on a Na+iona| Music week CommiHee dition of Music Week. The same
national basis in 1924, it was the is true of county music festivals,
first of the special “weeks” in- school music meets, patriotic
stituted to focus public attention on an idea or a programs, including music of the Western Hemi-
community-benefit objective. The Letter of Sug- sphere and the United Nations; events designed
gestions issued annually by the central committee to provide musical instruments, musical entertain—
is now off the press and may be obtained upon ment and musical opportunities for the armed ser-
request at its office, 315 Fourth Avenue, New vices; the expansion of musical activity in recrea-
York 10, N. Y. ' tion, especially for teen-age groups; fostering local
The active Committee consists of the presidents mUSical talents PrOViding mUSical CQUiPment in
of thirty-three prominent national organizations, “3110013., Qhquhes and libraries; promoting the use
including the National Recreation Association, Of “111510 in Industry and 35 an ald 1“ theraPY-
which has been giving the Committee special fa- “Music Week will be motivated in the future,
cilities during the past two as it has been in the past,
years. The keynote the mem- It's interest in music. not the number solely by the desire of music

bers have selected for this ,°f_‘/.ea"5 Y°ulve.|i‘f9d-w.hi‘3h m§kes Y0“ lovers everywhere to join to—
eligible to parhCIpate m Musnc Week

gether in promoting
pleasurable participa-
tion in man’s common
heritage of music, and
in the sense of comrade-
ship which music, more
than the other arts, cre-
ates and disseminates.”

year’s observance is
“Use Music to Foster
Unity for the War and
the Peace to Follow.”
There is also a perma—
nent keynote “Encour-
age American Music”—
meaning the meritorious
work of native and nat-
uralized composers.
_ This is not to be done
in a chauvinistic way,
but rather with the
f' thought of providing op—
portunities for the pub-
lic to become familiar
with and learn to love
the worthy productions.
of their fellow country—
men, as well as those of
foreign birth.
Indicating a few of
the many types of par-
thipation appropriate to

Recreation Depart-
ments Active

Music is taking an
increasingly prominent
place in recreation, and
leaders in the field have
recognized that it is not
only the lighter and
popular types that heal,
refresh, and “re-create,”
but also the more seri-
ous types, and that a
constantly growing pub-
lic has come to want
good music. It has,

 

FEBRUARY '1944 591'

 

592 NATIONAL MUSIC WEEK COMES OF AGE

therefore, been a natural de-
velopment that recreation de-
partments should take an ac-
tive part in many of the local
Observances, and that in a
considerable number of cities
they should become a promi—
nent factor and even take the
initiative in forming a local
central committee.

An outstanding example of
a recreation department serving its community by
heading the Music Week organization is that of
Alton, Illinois. For the past five years Ethel L.
Paul of the Recreation Department has been Ex-
ecutive Secretary of the Music Week Committee,
sponsored jointly by her Department and the Busi-
ness and Professional Women’s Club. The follow-
ing is an excerpt from the letter sent out by the
committee to local organizations and to a number
of individuals active in music education:

“Common interests in this democratic world are many
and music is distinctly one of them. It breathes the spirit
of harmony and cooperation, and is an ideal medium for
advancing that spirit.

"Music \Veek has clearly demonstrated the value of
music as a unifying force in thousands of local commu-
nities and in the nation. Through it individuals, organi-
zations, ofi‘icials, and educators all unite in a common
desire to extend the influence of music, most democratic
of all the arts, and the wholesome enjoyment which comes
from listening to music and participation in its making.”

The Alton sponsors again invite you to observe Music
\Veek.

Will you—-
FIRST: Report your plans for Music Week Observance
to Miss Ethel L. Paul, Executive Secretary, Music

Week Committee, care of Alton Recreation Department,
2 E. Broadway. Phone 3-8859, on or before April 26th.

51390an Report to her all musical programs held during
Music Week or on a near date, when planned as an
observance.

MUSIC WEEK COMMITTEE

DOROTHY QUEEN, Executive Chairman, BPWC
MARY J. MAGUIRE, Director of Activities, BPWC
ETHEL L. PAUL, Executive Secretary, Recreation Dept.

Name of School, Studio or Organization

Date of Program . . . . . . . .Place . . . . . . .  . . . .Hour . . . . ..

Program or Description of Activity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

o . - o - n - u - o o - u u a c o o - u n . n u . . o u o c o - o o u o u u o u u o o o o o c o u g o no
I I I l l O I O O I O O l I O l O O I l I l I O C I O I l l I l l I O O C I O l I O O O 0 O I 0 I I l O.

O c I o I o u o I I o I o I o I o t c I o o I t I u o I I o o c o o I o I o t o o I o o I o o o o I o I o

AUSPICES OF ALTON RECREATION DEPARTMENT

"Despite the present crisis. all of the
elements which constitute our civiliza-
tion must continue to flourish. I know of
no more effective medium of fortifying
our national morale than the cultivation
of the renewed appreciation on the part
of our citizens of the value of music in
our national life. In my opinion, nowI
above any other time in our nation's his-
tory, music has a definite function to ful-

fill in America."—Hon. Charles Edison.

In addition, the letter
quoted the keynote of the
year and told a little of the
history of the observance na-
tionally and in the city of
Alton. A list of the subcom-
mittees sent in by Miss Paul
included: public schools,
parochial schools, hospitals,
colleges, churches and choir
groups, service groups, recre-
ation centers, women’s clubs and organizations,
P.T.A.’s and musical organizations. It is interest-
ing to note that strictly musical groups were in the
small minority among the participants in Alton,
yet the reports received from the city through
committee workers and press items indicate the
value of the observance in extending the infiuence
of music both in the direction of self activity (pro-
ducing music) and more intelligent and apprecia-
tive listening.

In Long Beach, California, the Recreation Com-
mission presented a program at the Municipal
Auditorium featuring the Women’s Symphony
Orchestra and a group of a cappella singers. \Vith
the exception of a few selections from the classics,
the numbers were all by American and Latin-
American composers. Other evenings arranged by
the local committee were devoted to folk music in
costume, music teacher associations recital, public
school program, Women’s Music Club concert, and
Long Beach Composers nite. Winding up the ob-
servance was a festival of sacred music by the city
choirs, held in the Convention Hall.

Among the other cities in which recreation de-
partments have taken a leading part in the observ—
ance in recent years are Reading and York, Penn-
sylvania; Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Fort Wayne, In-
diana; and Jacksonville, Florida.

Recreation leaders should consult with the local
Music Week committee, where these are function-
ing, and take the initiative in forming such com-
mittees where there are none at present. It is just
as well the hrst year to begin with only a small
group, representing a few leading elements in the
community, like the schools, colleges, churches,
service organizations and women’s clubs——or even
two or three of these. A modest program is ad-
visable, perhaps only a single concert featuring
local talent, or a radio pr0gram over a local sta-
tion, by representatives of the city’s musical groups.

There is no need of a crowded calendar or a widely
(Continued on page 633)

RECREATION

Some Leadership “Dds”

F YOU ARE PLANNING to
I become a recreation
w0rker you will want to
know beforehand what per-
sonnel qualifications are im-
portant, how to prepare
yourself for leadership in
recreation, and how to meet
some of the situations which

The Leader’s Preparations

The prospective leader
will want to make definite
preparations from the point
of view of physical, mental,
and professional needs and requirements.

Physical Preparation

The play leader should always present an at—
tractive appearance.

Dress suitably for the occasion. Party clothes
on the playground or at the community center are
as out of place as sports clothes at a banquet or
picnic, or beach togs on city playgrounds or streets.

Be well groomed. Such matters as proper hair-
cuts, shaves, manicures, and conservative make-up
are more important than you think. And of course
‘ no recreation worker would go on duty chewing
gum or with his breath smelling with liquor!

Get enough sleep. Loss of sleep may mean short
temper and slow wit.

Eat proper food. Avoid eating when you are
hot and tired and stay away from cheap cafes,
especially in hot weather. If this is unavoidable,
select foods you know to be safe. A diet of soda
pop and hot dogs, especially when you are rushed
or overworked, will take its toll, and so will hard-
to-digest foods eaten just before an exhausting
program or when you are under nervous strain.

Observe good health habits. Discover the rou-
tine which is satisfactory for peak efficiency and
vitality, and follow it.

Find satisfying personal recreation. Too violent
recreation before going 011 duty burns much
energy.

FEBRUARY 1944

By ETHEL BOWERS
National Recreation Association

The demands made by the war on recrea-
tion personnel have resulted in the en-
trance into the field of many young. un-
‘trained workers and many new volunteers
of all ages. To help equip these individ-
uals for the responsibilities of leadership,
some simple. elementary information is
arise_ offered on phases of leadership which are
often overlooked because taken for granted
by more experienced leaders.

The material presented is based on sug-
gestions offered by Miss Bowers in talks at
recreation training institutes.

 

Mental Preparation

A play leader should ap-
proach his group in the right
frame of mind.

H one a clear mind. Leave
your worries at home and
avoid mental conflicts. It‘
doesn’t help to relive a re-
cent quarrel.

Be genuinely enthusiastic.
It’s useless to make a pre~
tense of enthusiasm. Go into
some other work if you find
you are not generating 100
per cent pure enthusiasm
most of the time. But it’s only fair to remember
that even the best leaders have “off” days!

Cooperate with fellow workers. A chip—on—the-
shoulder attitude does something very unfortunate
to you. Be careful not to expect or demand all of
the credit. It’s a case of sharing with others.

Be friendly with participants. The greatest
troublemaker may have the most unfortunate back—
ground and may need your friendship most.

Be “personally impersonal.” It’s easy to be
overfriendly and lay yourself open to the charge of
having “teacher’s pets.” Silly sentimentality has
no place on the playground.

Be a “builder-upper.” Avoid being a “tearer-
downer,” always pricking holes in other people’s
balloons.

Show good sportsmanship. Always try to be
the personification of good sportsmanship, fair
play, and genuinely democratic procedures. Guard
against any tendency to be “bossy,” to dictate, to
patronize people, to talk down to children.

Professional Preparation

The good leader never trusts to inspiration to
provide a program, but makes adequate prepara-
tion for each day’s work.

M alee a plan. Ideas aren’t likely to come to you
in the middle of a program. '

Try to make your plan work. But, if it doesn’t
work,pchange it on the spur of the moment. Avoid
inflexibility as you would the plague!

593

 

594 SOME LEADERSHIP “DO’S”

H ave emergency materials on hand. Always
have in mind games requiring no equipment which
you can use at a minute’s notice.

Read, clip, file, keep scrapbook. Clip that quiz
or puzzle you see in the newspaper or magazine.
Some day you’ll wish you had it!

Keep growing. It’s fatal to think you know it
all. Always keep growing. Live not only for today
but reach out for tomorrow, next week, or next
month. Set up objectives for the things you hope
to do by ‘next year; then work to accomplish your
goals.

Keep learning. Think of your education as never
completed. Everyone can teach you something, and
there’s help to be gotten from leaders from other
agencies and communities.

Take courses. A closed mind is definitely a lia-
bility. Courses in public speaking, radio dramatics,
commercial art, journalism,
practical psychology, soci-
ology, can open new fields.

Attend conventions. It’s a
mistake to be too sure your
city has the best program and
it can’t be improved! At con-
ventions you learn of the best
procedures, not only in meet-
ings but in small group con-
ferences and in talking with
individuals from other cities.

Visit other centers. Every
worker develops his own methods. You can learn
much from watching others work.

Experiment and create. All the instruction you
need isn’t to be found in books. You’ll find greater
joy personally and develop better programs if you
experiment with ideas and create new patterns to
meet your particular needs.

About People and Their Interests

If your program is to be successful you must
like pe0ple and understand them. Always remem-
ber that individual peOple have individual interests
and preferences. N 0 hard and fast rules can be laid
down, of course, and every rule has its exceptions,
but here are a few of the different kinds of inter-
ests which help make individuals the kind of peo-
ple they are.

Types of Interests

Athletics. Some people have special skills in
athletic games and sports. They usually prefer

"Everyone needs and wants time for soli-
‘l’udel but there are people who are in-
capable ot extending the feeling 'this
is me' to 'this is us.‘ To ask such peo-
ple to a dance or a rehearsal of a play
will only squeeze their loneliness more
tightly around them. But they can still
say 'this is me' and weave a belt. and
accomplishment and appreciation from
others are the first things to relax the
tension.' '—Rutb Cborpenning Norris in
TbeJoumal of Educational Sociology.

strenuous activity to sitting still for long periods.
They are sometimes shy in social gatherings.

Creative. People who are creative are frequently
unskillful in athletics and do not enjoy physical
exertion as much as people with athletic interests.
They are often very skillful in music, drama, arts
and crafts, and hobbies, and they enjoy the com-
pany of other creative people.

Social. People with predominately social inter-
ests enjoy the society of the opposite sex and are
enthusiastic about parties, picnics and dances, eSpe-
cially with members of the opposite sex.

Mental. Many individuals are more interested
in books and studies than in people. They are
often lacking in physical skills and are not clever
in using their hands.

Another thing to remember about people is that
some individuals are naturally “joiners” and find
their enjoyment in being as-
sociated with groups. These ‘
are the people to whom you
naturally turn in starting a
social recreation program, for
they are usually interested and
cooperative, and can be de-
pended on to help. There are
many other people, less “out-
going,” whose interests must
be discovered so that they
may be drawn into the pro-
gram.

It will help you, too, in dealing with people to
keep in mind'the fact that individuals from their
earliest years go through a number of stages of
development. These are not always clearly defined
and often overlap. PeOple develop differently from
childhood to later years and do not follow the
same pattern.

It is generally true, however, that in the first
few years of their lives boys and girls play to-
gether easily and are not conscious of the op-
posite sex.

Later boys do not want girls around, seem to
prefer their own gangs, and pay little attention to
girls except, perhaps, to tease them! Girls, too,
for the most part seem to prefer their own groups,
but many recreation leaders believe that girls often
grow out of this stage sooner than do boys.

Before long, however, the time comes when boys
and girls become conscious of each other and are
shy and self-conscious, though at the same time
they are interested. This interest grows with ado-

RECREATION

 

SOME LEADERSHIP “DO’S” 595

lescence until boys and girls reach the stage of
being very conscious of each other. Someone has
said that adolescence is a battleground of emo—
tional upheavals ——no one can predict what“ an
adolescent will do! It is for these adolescents, with
their contradictory moods and emotional upsets,
that the most wise and sympathetic leadership
must be provided. People who try to lead young
adolescents as they would kindergarten children
fail utterly.

Leadership

The all important essential in developing a rec-
reation program is leadership. Comparativer few
people are really creative leaders, with ideas and
the ability to transfer these ideas into action. Many
others are good imitators, without many creative
ideas but capable of putting other people’s plans
to work. It is the responsibility of the recreation
organizer in charge of the program to find the
people with creative ability, help them develop it,
and give good ideas or patterns to those who are
less creative. 1,

In looking for people to serve on committees or
councils, to train as junior leaders or as adult vol-
unteers or in selecting a paid staff
worker, the following qualities as
outlined by one successful execu—
tive should be present: '

Character Assets (or wearing
qualities)

Sincerity
Loyalty to a cause
High ethical standards
Courage
Self respect
Tolerance
Dependability

_ Adaptability

Social Assets

_, Attractive appearance
’ Friendliness

Pleasant voice

Use of acceptable language
Cheerfulness

Contagious enthusiasm
Courtesy

Sense of humor
Pleasing personality

Leadership Assets

Genuine interest in peeple
Organizing ability
Initiative

Vision of the whole
Ability to think clearly

FEBRUARY 1944

 

Creative imagination
Perseverance
Abundant vitality

Common sense

Judgment
Cooperative spirit

General Assets

A general knowledge in many intellectual fields
Technical knowledge in one or more fields
Interest in further study

The Program

Planning the Recreation Program

There may be times when it will be necessary
for you to work alone in planning and conducting
a social recreation program, but the desirable pro-
cedure is to have working with you a committee,
council or leaders, either paid or volunteer, selected
and trained for the activity.

In preparing your program, work with people
rather than for them. Before making plans the
leader and his assistant, be they juniors or adults,
volunteers or paid workers, should have a confer-
ence and ask themselves these questions:

What kind of a party are you plannng? This
is one type which will test your leadership!

 

Caurtesy Department of Public Recreation, Reading, Po.

 

596 SOME LEADERSHIP “DO’S”

Who? Whom are we try-
ing to serve? What ages?
What sex — numbers of
each? What background?
What likes and dislikes?
What previous experiences
—successful ? unsuccessful?

Where? Indoors—Size?
Shape? Advantages? Disad-
vantages ? Outdoors— Suit-
able? Unsuitable? Trans-
portation difficulties?

l/Vhen .5’ Hours? Day? Week? Month ? Season?
Nearest holiday?

thy? Fun, celebration, loyalty, money raising,
etc.

What? What kind of a program? Indoors?
Outdoors? Dance? Party? Treasure hunt, etc.?
Picnic, etc.?

H ow? What leaders? What helpers? What
decorations? What supplies? What refreshments,
if any, to give or to sell?

After asking and answering these questions to
the best of their abilities, the leader and his help-
ers should begin to formulate a program and select
suitable activities based on the answers they have
given.

Some Practical Suggestions to the Leader

Be in evidence. When planning decorations and
program, be sure to arrange for a distinctive
emblem, badge, costume or hat for the leaders to
wear so they may be easily found in the crowd and
may have the prestige that comes with serving on
a committee.

Be prepared. Be sure to gather all equipment
and supplies ahead of time, and don’t have last
minute rushes to make prizes or to tie up pack-
ages. Have helpers already primed to give out
equipment quickly and quietly while the leader
explains the game. Most important of all, have
emergency material and ideas, and for an outdoor

party be sure to have a complete indoor program
planned and facilities available.

Be refreshed. Don’t hurry and worry up to the
minute guests begin to arrive. Try to get all pre-
parations completed in time for a rest, a leisurely
meal, a bath, and careful dressing and grooming.
A hot, worried leader starts with two strikes
against him. A well-fed, well-poised, well-groomed
leader commands more respect.

Be at ease. Wear clothes which are comfortable

"What are the characteristics a leader of
adults should possess or try to cultivate
for this great adventure in living on a truly
adult level? First and foremost. he must
have a sound belief in and respect for the
right of each individual to develop his
latent capacities. . . . To be sureI the leader
should help those working with him to dis-
cover their own possibilities. but he must
not dominate.".——- From Adult Educa-
tion; a Dynamic for Democracy.

yet suitable. See to it that
your mind keeps as cool and
orderly as your personal
appearance. Take time to
chat, to smile, or joke a bit,
even if you are scared and
sick with stage fright! By
all means avoid nervous in—
digestion by eating easily
digested foods some time
previous to the program.

Use the margins.” Use the first few minutes to
check all details with your helpers. As the first
guests arrive, chat with them to get a sampling of
the attendance. Use the odd moments, the mar-
gins of time, all through the program to become
better acquainted with the guests.

Feel the pulse of the group. Draw out the early
arrivals, get them to express themselves, to tell
what they like and dislike; what they have done
recently; what they would like to do. Learn if
you can their pet “peeves,” the things that thrill
them. This is called “feeling the pulse.” Build the

program as much as possible on the results of this
“pulse-feeling.”

Plant the seeds of ideas. Use these odd moments
of time before, during, and after a program to
“plant the seeds of ideas,” to suggest new pro-

grams, new methods, changes which are advisable,
wholesome attitudes.

Redirect impractical ideas. When a guest makes
suggestions which are impossible at the moment,
try to praise his interest and change his thinking
by a constructive suggestion which redirects his
initiative into the right channels. Try not to kill
the initiative of such a person, for some future
idea might be very helpful. If his suggestions are
absolutely out of the question and the guest is
insistent, try to pass them off with a smile, a joke,
or a promise to consider them later when you are
not so busy. Or take him off in a corner and have
a heart-to-heart talk with him on the pros and
cons of such a program under these circumstances.

Find a niche for everyone. Every group has its
misfits, those who are too shy, too noisy, very
slow, very quick, very aggressive. Try to spot
them early, and with a nice word and a smile find
a niche for them. One of the best answers is to
give them activity, something to do with their
hands, move furniture, open windows, help with

decorations, be score keeper, or, if dependable, be
captain or leader of a group.

RECREATION

SOME LEADERSHIP “DO’S” 597

Prime leaders. At planning meetings, and again
before the program starts, be sure to remind your
leaders of their parts in the program. Many spon-
taneous appearing programs are really very well-
planned because “sub rosa” leaders are primedhfor

their parts.

Place leaders. Scatter your leaders in the group
where their abilities or knowledge or your instruc-
tions will give the best results. This is especially
important in grand marches and square dances
where trained people are expected to take the lead-
ing places and the most inexperienced take the

last positions; and in many
games and stunts depending
on a few who “are in the
know” to volunteer appar-
ently spontaneously to be
the “goat” or to perform
some special part.

Give responsibility. Give
as much responsibility as
you can to helpers and vol-
unteers, and even the guests
themselves. However, be
careful. Do not give too
much to an individual who

is not prepared for it, for if
he fails he will be very dis-
couraged. Give only as much
as he is ready to take and to
handle successfully.

H elp folks to succeed.
After giving responsibility,
allow pe0ple time to work
out their own methods. But
if you find they are not suc-
ceeding, try to help with a
smile, a word of praise, con—
structive suggestions and, if absolutely necessary,
pitch in and do the job with them, but give them
all the credit and praise.

Give credit. Be sure to thank those who help!
Not to do this constitutes a serious omission.
Here are some of the ways in which members of
boards, councils, committees, clubs, and leaders
can be thanked for their service:

Thank them in person, privately. Write a letter
of thanks, or better still, have the president of the
organization, or someone in authority write on
official stationery. Thank them in public. During
or at the end of a program be sure to give public

FEBRUARY 1944

 

i
 .
v»
‘ ~. -:—i
 . V  7.

Courtesy Recreation Department, Houston, Texas

Be constantly on the lookout for boys
and girls with leadership abilities

recognition to the people who have made the event
possible-the council or committee members, your
assistants, the pianist, any entertainers, those who
were responsible for the decorations, favors, or
food. Ask them to stand up and receive the ap-
plause of the audience. Tell of their fine work and
praise them in front of others.

Reserve seats for your volunteer leaders at im-
portant functions, or have them sit on the plat-
form. . Give your volunteers badges to wear when
on duty and certificates, preferably with the seal
of the city imprinted on them, at some annual
banquet or founder’s day.
Honor them with a party,
picnic, or banquet. Post
their names on the bulletin
board. If possible get their.
names in the local paper.
Take snapshots of them and
post on the bulletin board
with their names. Get a
news camera man to take an
official photograph to pub-
lish in the paper. Include
their names in your annual
report.

Conducting the Program

Some Questions and Answers

Where to start? Start a
program at the far end of a
room away from the en-
trance, with the players
gathered in a corner around
the piano, a table, or some
other rallying place not too
near the point of arrival.
Or, if out of doors, near a.
platform, the steps of a
building, or in the shade of a large tree.

When to start? Always on time, when the first
two or three people arrive. Never start late and
never keep people waiting until all have arrived or
certain dignitaries are seated.

Where to stand? So that your back is to a
blank wall, bushes, trees, or open space without
moving objects. Face the group and any moving
obects there may be such as late-comers or glaring
lights. Always arrange it so that the group will
not face these distractions.

What do you think about? Something like this:
“These people are my friends. ‘They are human
beings with emotions. They maybe tired, worried,

  

p
t
.- .
, «mi-W, “5.... “Meg; r

 

598 SOME LEADERSHIP “DO’S”

jittery from the day’s duties. Each is thinking his
own thoughts. What can I do to help them enjoy
each others company, think and act joyously to-
gether, to relax and forget themselves and go home

refreshed ?”

What to do? Think through carefully what you
are going to do and say to break the ice. Plan the
first game step by step. Know how you are going
to present it and to organize it. Be sure you know
the rules. Decide who will start the game, what
he will do as a first and second step, and what the
others will do.

What to say? Be yourself! Be friendly. Use
simple informal words, “Hello, people,” “Good
evening, everyone,” or “Well, here we are, already
to start.”

How to enlist cooperation? If you have already
met with the committee or council you will have
urged them to arrive early and to enter enthusi-
astically into anything you suggest. If such leaders
are not present, enlist the cooperation of the first
arrivals by such simple remarks as “Let’s get
something started,” “Will you help me pep up this
crowd? I need your help.”

How to arouse curiosity? One of the best ways
is to get a small compact group of people laughing
and shouting so the late-comers will draw near to
see what’s going on. Another way is to motion the
players to come to you with such an invitation as
“Come here a minute. I have something to tell
you (or ask you, or show you).” Some leaders
have a simple game, stunt, or trick they can start
playing until one or two show interest and are al-
lowed to try their hand at it. Other leaders sit
down at a piano and start playing singable songs
until a crowd just naturally gravitates to the piano.
‘ On some occasions it is,necessary to be intro—
duced by a chairman or master of ceremonies, but
this is a very formal, cold method and the leader
must counteract it by some informal friendly
remarks.

What to select? The first few activities are very
important. Choose games which are simple but
not childish, and that are well known—but have a
new twist—0r easy to learn.
Rhythm is an excellent means
of binding people together.
Music helps them forget their
worries and get into the play
spirit; stamping and clapping
help relieve tension and over-
come shyness, and jumping up

"Leadership is the most important
factor in a successful program of
problem is to de-
vise leadership where it is lack-
ing. and to improve the quality of
leadership where it is found."

—Ray Lyman Wilbur, LL. D.

recreation. The

or stretching and shouting give those with too
much energy a chance to blow off steam. If we can
combine all of these with a good laugh, we have
the perfect ice breaker.

The leader’s attitude? Always keep in mind the
old saying “you can catch more flies‘with honey
than with vinegar.” Never blow the whistle unless
the game demands it, then make it short and sharp.
Don’t be a traffic cop, don’t be bossy. Don’t drive.

What expressions to use? Instead of saying
“you must,” a wise leader says, “I would like you
to,” “If you will,” “If you please,” “Will you

.9,

now, “If you don’t mind, please.”

How to put people at their ease? Try to get
them laughing. Bring in the shy ones and the late-
comers with a personal word or get your helpers
to encourage them to join _the group. Give shy
ones something to hold or do with their hands.
Find partners for them or get your helpers to
draw them into the game.

Praise people through such phrases as “That’s
fine,” “That was well done.” But always be sin—
cere in your praise.

How to emphasize your instructions? Instead of
repeating your instructions after you have given
them the rules of the game once clearly, carefully
and slowly, ask them where they go, what they do
first, second and so forth. In this way you not
only repeat your instructions but you emphasize
them, hold the attention of the players, and give
the noisy ones a chance to use up their excess
energy by shouting the answers.

H ow to control noisy participants? Such people
are seldom really antagonistic. They are merely
show-offs or have too much energy. Don’t boss
them, cross them, or “bawl them out,” but per-
suade them into cooperation, and always with a
twinkle in your eye. Praise them, play them up so
they are conspicuous in a friendly way, such as
“Now this tall young man can do it, I’m sure” or
“This group of boys wants to sing, so we’ll let them
sing for us right now.” Never, by any sign, let
them know that you have lost your temper. '

H 020 to handle troublesome players? Occasion-
ally one or two individuals will
create such disturbances that
some action must be taken. In
handling the situation your first
approach may be to the group as
a whole. Make your appeal to
them, perhaps in this way, “Now
listen, people, there are 100 of

RECREATION

you and only one of me. How about giving me a
break? I can talk pretty loud but not as loud as
100 of you talking at once. How about quieting
down while I give you directions, then when we
play the game, make all the noise you want. ,Will
you help me out ?”

Perhaps it will be necessary to secure the help
of some members of the group. Explain the prob-
lem and ask them to work with you on it in a quiet
friendly way. One leader asks her committee mem—
bers to help her at parties by scattering through-
out the group mixing in and playing the games,
but always being on the alert for trouble.

A friendly talk with the troublemaker may
solve a problem. If it is possible to praise him’ for
anything he has done, do it at the beginning of the
talk and finish on a friendly confident note that the

trouble will not happen again.

How to correct mistakes? If an individual is
making a mistake, move slowly, quietly toward
him, while looking elsewhere, and speak to him
softly while still looking away using a sentence
such as “If you use the right foot it would be
better,” or “Try turning to the left—it’s easier.”
If many of the group are making mistakes, stop
the game and say, “You’re doing pretty well, but
let’s try to get it smoother.” Never embarrass
anyone making mistakes by speaking aloud or
telling everyone that “the lady in the red dress is
doing it incorrectly.”

How to select people to demonstrate? If possi-
ble, train one of your helpers to be your partner
or to demonstrate an activity. If no helper is avail-
able, observe the group as -you give instructions
and select an active, alert young person who is
quick thinking, calm and poised. Usually for folk
and square dances it is preferable for a woman
leader to select for her partner a young girl shorter
and lighter than herself, one who seems to have
good coordination. It is very difficult for a woman
leader to demonstrate a folk dance with an un-
trained man who is tall' and heavy and who be-
comes stiff with embarrassment when brought out
in front of a group.

H ow to give directions? Give people time to
think! Speak slowly when they must digest what
you tell them. Speak clearly at all times. Pause
frequently. \Vhen asking someone to start a game
make your request, then keep on talking while he
collects his wits and is prepared when you stop
talking and want him to start. Nothing is more
embarrassing than to be called upon to perform

FEBRUARY 1944

SQM E LEADERSHIP “D 0’5” 599

and have many eyes focused on you while you go
through the tortures of stage fright and having your
mind go blank. People must have time to think.

Things ’ro Remember

Give all a chance. Try to include all in your
activities—all ages, all types: both sexes, all abili-
ties. If some of the group do not wish to partici-
pate, do not urge them and do not make them
conspicuous, but at least invite them to join you
so that they will feel that they’re wanted.

Never have “goats.” It is poor leadership to
make someone the goat of a stunt, putting him in
an impossible situation, holding him up to ridicule,
having people laugh at his discomfort.

Watch out for amateur hour performers. Be
sure they have high standards, suitable costumes

and programs.

Be on guard against “show—offs.” Don’t let
them spoil the fun of the ’others. Avoid showing
shock! There are always people who will try to
get you excited, shocked, or worried.

A word to the wise. Keep what you are told to
yourself or, if it seems of sufficient importance,
tell it only to the proper official. Sometimes he
ignorant! If there are hard feelings it is best to
ignore them when conducting a program.

Invite the players to come again. Just before
the closing activity be sure to call all the players
up close to you as you stand on a platform, bench,
or some slight elevation, and tell them of coming
events, urge them to return and tell their friends
about “our good times” and bring them along next
time.

A program must never peter out. Always end
on a high note with a lively activity, a friendly
song, or a patriotic theme. Your job is not done
until you’ve said a word of farewell to as many
individuals as possible and expressed the hope that
you would see them back bright and early the next
time. Keep on smiling until the last person is gone.

Cleaning up.- Before the party even starts it is
well to assign certain people to the cleaning up job
at the end. These are usually your committee
members or helpers. If no one has been appointed,
try to enlist the cooperation of those who have
lingered by saying something like this, “I need a
tall man to help me. I wonder if you’d mind clos-
ing windows for me 3” The leader should always.
pitch in on the cleaning up job, making a game of
it with a laugh or joke or his own contagious en—

(Continued on page 640)“

What They Say About Recreation

1’ HE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE who have to get es—
T sential goods to the soldiers and sailors can-
not do that job without health and reasonable
relaxation to store up energy.”—Charles P. Taft
in Junior League Magazine.

“Painting, drawing, craft work, music and other
art activities will function not to distract people
from the war effort, but to keep them calm and
resolute in the face of it.”— From Education in
Wartime and A fter.

'“Recreation has a place in war as well as peace.
It can be a saving factor in a struggle which de-
mands that all of us shall be able to give our best
efforts on all our fighting fronts, and home and
abroad.”—Florence Kerr.

“The crafts comprise the background of our
daily living and we take them for granted, forget—
ting how plain and forlorn the world would be'if
we took' away the products of skill and resource-
fulness and limited ourselves to the bare essentials
of nourishment and shelter.”—Thomas Craven in
The Story of Painting.

“There is need for a recreation middle ground
between dives and divinity.”—Thomas A. Bones,
Chairman, Norfolk, Va., Recreation Commission.

“Recreation is the pleasurable and constructive
use of leisure time. It is a physical and mental
need, a necessary relaxation and release from
strain.”—From A Study of the Park and Recrea-
tion Problem of the United States.

“Thoughtful men have always recognized that
only in our leisure can we cultivate those qualities
and activities that are distinctly human—thinking,
making music, and giving body to our own dreams
of beauty.”——Benjamin C. Greenberg.

“We believe in the vital importance of recrea-
tion in a democracy; that the spirit of recreation
is the spirit of good will, of peace, of restful living,
of creativeness.”—From the Code of the Bay City,
Texas, Recreation Council.

“In time of war it is imperative for communi-
ties to recognize that recreation is an essential part
'of their obligations to their citizens—new or old.”
——From Spare g‘ime.

600

“The need for human contacts and for a satis-
fying relation with others is accentuated rather
than diminished by the strains of war but is one
of the chief needs of young people as well as of
adults in war or peace.”—David Cushman C oyle.

“W e in America are fortunate in having a music

that is still living and is still being made by plain
folks.”—Elsie S ingmeister.

“Experience has demonstrated that under the
conditions of city life no function of government
is more intimately connected with the welfare,
health and happiness of the people than that of
supervised recreation.”—Thomas M. Eaton.

“Recreation is the best means of expressing the
creativeness, the individualism, that makes one not
like his brother. The kinds of recreation that a
man chooses are therefore very important to him-
self, and, to a lesser degree, his community, the
place where he lives.”—William f. Pitt.

“Music and dance, although independent arts,
often intensify each other when combined. They
are closely akin because both grow out of the
same root—that basic element which underlies all
of music and dance and life——rh‘ythm.”—Leopold
S tokowski.

“The most important hour that a man lives is
the hour when he chooses what he will do after
work.”~——Jane Addams.

“Now, of all times, the restful, rebuilding, heal-
ing power of recreation must be released to all the
people. Recreation is a source of spiritual power
from which one returns with renewed spirit.”—

Charles L. Tilden.

“If we could learn how to balance rest against
effort, calmness against strain, quiet against tur-
moil, we would assure ourselves of joy in living

and psychological health for life.”—-Josephine
Rathbone. '

“We have propaganda enough in this country
for the art of music. What we need is practical di-
rection of the nation’s resources and capacities in
the field. . . . There must be useful work in music
for all.”—Howard T aubntan in Music On My Beat.

RECREATION

Suggestions for Youth Recreation Programs*

 

With the concern
which exists over
problems of rec-
reation for young
people. a state-
ment that gives
practical sugges-
tions for organiz-
ing and conduct-
ing programs for
teen age boys and
girls will be read
with much interest

 

.\ r    ‘

Courtesy Lancaster, Pa., Recreation Assoaation

youth programs can be alike; and it has not

been the intention of this study to set a hard
and fast pattern for youth recreation. Two definite
convictions, however, motivate this study: first,
that youth needs wholesome recreation opportuni-
ties; and second, that recreation programs for
young people should give them the widest oppor-
tunity to participate in the direction and planning
of their own programs.

SINCE N0 TWO communities are alike, no two

Community Planning for Youth Recreation

Determining Needs

Before a youth program is established, commu—
nity groups concerned with youth problems should
generally be brought together to study the local
situation and to decide whether the existing youth
program—if any—is adequate and, if found inade-
quate, what the needs are. Such an over-all plan—
ning committee should have wide representation
and should include among others the following
groups:

 

'Extracts from a statement prepared by the Committee for the
Study of Teen Age Recreation Problems of the Florida Asso-
cration of Recreation Workers.

FEBRUARY 1944

Representative Young People Themselves i

Public Education and Recreation Agencies

Municipal Recreation Department
Municipal Park Department
Department of Education

Public Correctional Representatives

Probation Officers
Juvenile Court Judges

Representatives of W elfare and Health

Semipublic Agencies \Vorking with Youth

Y. M. C. A. Girl Scouts

Y. W. C. A. Y. M. H. A.

Boy Scouts and others
Churches

Civic Organizations

The committee should make some analysis of
what is now being provided by public and semi-
public agencies and by commercial interests in the
field of youth recreation. The use being made of
existing facilities and the participation of youth in
existing programs must be examined. It is not
enough to have available recreation opportunities
unless youth itself feels that it has some part in
program planning and direction.

601

602 SUGGESTIONS FOR YOUTH RECREATION PROGRAMS

Mobilizing Community Resources

In order to get a program under way some type
of adult advisory committee may be formed. Usu-
ally a representative youth council is organized.
Often these two groups meet jointly to attempt to
work out a plan of action. The program itself may
be instituted in one of several ways or a combina-

tion of ways, such as:

Opening of a youth center or a new program by an
'existing recreation agency with the help of the ad-
visory committee and the youth council

Expansion of the existing programs of recreation
agencies and the organization of a youth council to

plan with existing agencies

Setting up of a new program under the direction of
the youth advisory committee and the youth council.
Often the assistance of existing agencies is secured to
provide leadership and financial support.

Adult Advisory Committees

The adult advisory committee" may grow out of
the planning group and function on a city—wide
basis, or it may be organized to serve as a spon-
soring group for a Specific center or for the pro—
gram of a single recreation agency. The following
are some of the types of advisory committees now
in operation:

Council of Youth Agencies

Representatives of youth agencies act as the ad-
visory committee for the youth council and as a steer-
ing committee for a youth center. program.
Community Advisory Council

This is made up of interested individuals and repre-
sentatives of civic organizations.

Advisory Council Organized by a Youth Agency

Designed to sponsor the program of one particular
agency, such councils have been organized by schools,
recreation departments, Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., and

others to act in an advisory capacity.

Advisory Council from Adult
Civic Organizations

In some cases a youth program is instituted by a
civic organization which sets up an advisory commit-
tee to develop and supervise the program.

Organizing Councils of Representative
Young People

Along with the adult advisory committee there
may be established also a council made up of young
people themeslves. It may be one of the following

types:
City-wide Youth Councils in Large Cities

These may be made up of representatives from
each junior and senior high school of the city, in-

cluding parochial schools, with representatives chosen
through appointment by student officials or through
election by means of student' government machinery.

Where several youth centers are operating in a
city, the city-wide council might be made up of repre-
sentatives from these various centers.

The council may be made up of representatives from
youth agencies— Y.M.C.A., Boy Scouts, Y.W.C.A.,
Girl Scouts, city recreation department, schools, etc.

Youth Councils in Smaller Communities

The council members may be elected from the
schools on a class basis. Generally these include grades

9 through 12.

Representatives may be elected from among those
who participate in the program. Election here, too,
may be representative of grade groups; or it may
represent various hobby and interest groups.

The adult advisory group, school, or adult youth
agency authorities may appoint the youth council.

Functions of Youth Councils

With the help of the adult advisory committee,
the youth council should serve in the following

fields :

Selection of personnel

Securing and developing facilities
Preparation of budget

Securing of funds

Purchase of equipment and supplies
Determining rules and policies
Planning programs

Inaugurating service projects

Relationship Between Adult Advisory
Committees ‘and Youth Councils

The two groups may meet together, either
regularly or occasionally.

The center director may relay the decisions
between the two groups, which may meet
separately.

The adult group should serve as a sponsoring
agency and keep the program on an even keel,
giving eSpecial help with financing.

Decisions relating to activities and facilities
should be left as much as possible to the youth
councils. '

Operation of Youth Centers

Many of the youth recreation efforts have in-
cluded as'part of their programs youth centers——
either separate buildings or rooms set aside com-
pletely for the use of young people. These gener-
ally serve as meeting places for youth groups,
“drop-in” centers, and activity centers for hobby
groups of various kinds.

RECREATION

SUGGESTIONS FOR YOUTH RECREATION PROGRAMS 603

Starting of Centers eral service for the center. They may sit in a
The representative planning group may have .lOint meeting With the YOUth CounCil-
decided that a need existed for one or more youth Youth Councils

centers. The group wouldothen consider how such
centers should be financed, what facilities would be
available, how leadership might be secured, and
the type of administrative organization that would
allow maximum youth participation.

In many cases it will be found that one of the

These, too, may in some cases be the same as
the city-wide youth council; or, in large cities
especially, concerned with the operation of a
specific center. Special center committees are
generally also desirable. These might be:

established youth-serving agencies, public or semi- Executive committee (composed of youth council
public, may be able to providethe needed services. ofHCCI‘S and perhaps Chairmen 0f the other com-
mittees) '

Managemenf Of Gamers House committee (to set up rules pertaining to the

Center Advisory Committees house and equipment, the answering of the tele—

These may be the same group as the city-wide Phone)

advisory committee or a separate group whose
main responsibility is the operation of the cen—
ter. They should be made up of adults sympa-
thetic to the problems of youth who will work
as a unit to assist in the oper-

Program committee

Membership committee (to secure members, give
out membership cards) ‘

Canteen committee
Service committee
Publicity committee

ation of the center. The com- A watermelon party. with all they .

mittees Should pass on mat- could eat. was one of the social Other :emporafy hcommlttees. for
. . ' ' ' ' ' ' specia events suc as dances tour-

ters rtamm to finance octIVItIes given for Intermediate , .

ublicge V 1 ngteer d ’ boys and girls of Roxana. Illinois, “amen”: games: and entertain-

p y’ ou S’an gen‘ by a committee of townspeople ments

 

Courtesy Roxana, Illinois, Recreation Department

FEBRUARY 1944

604 SUGGESTIONS FOR YOUTH RECREATION PROGRAMS

Leadership

Adult 'volunteer leadership can render out-
standing service in youth centers. Experience
has shown, however, that some paid leadership
is necessary to the successful operation of cen-
ters. Such leadership should have the ability to
assist youth in planning programs rather than to
superimpose programs on youth. Leaders with
professional training adequate for their duties
should be sought.

The duties and responsibilities of the center
director include: supervision of maintenance
and janitorial services, ordering and caring for
equipment and supplies, establishing community
relationships, conducting special activities where
the skill of a volunteer is not sufficient, keeping
records and making reports and other clerical
work, acting as a resource for the youth and
adults in planning the programs for the center,
and, where necessary, training volunteers for
the specific ,duties which
they are to perform.

Facilities and Equipment

In most cases ideal facili-
ties are impossible to obtain.
A small amount of money
and labor spent in remodel-
ling a store building or com-
munity center room may
provide a usable facility. In
many cases the young people themselves will help
secure furniture and redecorate and plan the needed
changes in facilities.

The atmosphere of a youth center should be
wholesome—clean walls and floors, airy, light,
with furniture in good condition—not just worn—
out, discarded junk.

The equipment in the center will be determined
by the use for which the center is intended. If it is
to be a drop-in center only, it will need less equip-
ment than if, in addition, it is to be used as a
center for hobby groups and recreation activities.

Essential equipment
A good floor for dancing
A juke box or piano (preferably both)
A snack bar
A lounge and reading area

Tables for games
Office or desk for records

Desirable equipment and facilities

Table tennis tables
Separate rooms or sections for committee meetings

and for hobby groups (such as photography,

For the benefit of readers who may not be
familiar with these publications. we call at-
tention to the following pamphlets dealing
with youth recreation which are available
from the National Recreation Association:

Teen Trouble (l0 cents); “Gotta Date
Tonight?” (l5 cents); Centers All Their
Own (I5 cents); and Preventing Wartime
Delinquency, by Lois Sager (l5 cents).

music, woodworking, airplane modeling, and
other crafts)
Storage space for equipment and supplies
Pool tables
Adjacent outdoor areas for sports and other
activities
Skating area
Swimming pool or bathing beach
Library
Outdoor cooking
Auditorium space
' Gymnasium

w.
\

As far as possible, the recreational resources of
the community should be enlisted through the pro-
gram from the center.

Financing of Centers

Most centers can be financed through one of the
following sources or a combination of these:

Municipal government

Recreation department
School board
Community chest

Sponsoring organizations (as
Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., Lions

Club, Rotary, etc.)

Club or center membership
(monthly or yearly dues)

Gifts and donations from indi-
viduals

Profits from snack bar or can-
teen within center

Community drive for center
funds.

Two types of financial support will be necessary:
first, funds for the securing of a facility, its renova-
tion, and the securing of equipment; and second,
operation expenses on an annual basis. Donations
of money and equipment have generally been avail-
able for the establishment of the facility. It is gen-
erally best, however, to tie the operation expenses
with some permanent financial set—up to insure the
permanence and stability of the program. In some
cases it has been found feasible to secure, through
gifts, funds necessary for rent and other operation
expenses, and to depend on the city or community
chest for the paid leadership which is generally one
of the largest items in a center budget.

An annual budget should be prepared with youth
participating in its preparation. Good expenditure
procedures should be set up and strict accounting
made of'all funds.

Some centers have found it advisable to make
small membership charges. These generally should
go into the general operating budget of the centers.

RECREATION

 

SUGGESTIONS FOR YOUTH RECREATION PROGRAMS 605

 

 

Courtesy Roxana, Illinois, Recreation Department

An interested committee of Roxana

Charges are often made for
special events such as holiday
dances. This money is usually
used to defray the cost of special
music, decorations, or refreshments.

Problems of Operation

Center operation problems should be the con-
cern of the youth council in cooperation with the
adult advisory group. Among the problems to be
settled are:

The ages and groups the center is to serve
The basis of membership or use of the center
Rules governing the operation of the center
Registration of center users
Membership cards
If a constitution and bylaws are drawn up, the fol-
lowing should be considered:
Election of officers and terms of service
Appointment of committees
Voting procedures
Membership
Bylaws governing organization and use of center

Program Suggestions for Youth

Young people themselves are the best judges of
the activities in which they wish to participate.
They should at all times have a part in the plan-

FEBRUARY 1944

citizens assumed responsibility for
arranging a series of parties for
boys and girls of iunior age level

ning and direction of such ac-
tivities. There is always present
a temptation for the paid and
volunteer leaders to feel that
they know what to plan. A superimposed program
will generally not bring a wide response.

Some youth councils have found it wise to get
from youth an expression of what they wish to do.
This may be done through individual question-
naires tilled out through the cooperation of the
schools or through securing expressions of opin-
ion from large groups of young people. A ques-
tionnaire affording opportunities to check a wide
variety of activities may provide the basis for
planning hobby groups, social events, athletic pro—
grams. The questionnaire may also show the time
available for recreation and the need or lack of
need for expanded programs in youth-serving
agencies, schools, and youth councils.

Recreation Activities in the Youth Program

The following list is meant to be suggestive of
the types of things young people enjoy:

Lounge and “drop-in” center, containing reading room
meeting place for youth groups and informals
gatherings

(Continued on page 640)

 

United Front for Youth in Fort Wayne

ROMOTERS of an idea
Pthat soon engulfed

the entire commu—
nity, the Boys and Girls
Committee of the Lions
Club in Ft. Wayne, In-
diana, took action recent— has
1y against the threat of s
juvenile delinquency by
inviting all agencies interested in young people to
come together at a public meeting and discuss the
problem as it affected the community. Of even
more immediate value to Ft. Wayne was the fact
that the subject did not lie fallow in the pages of
a secretary’s notebook. A second meeting, con-
voked when enthusiasm and energy were still in
the effervescent stage, disposed of the matters of
electing officers, expressing aims and policies, and
naming this new functioning group. It was in this
fashion that the Wayne Youth Commission was
born.

The Commission has a number of accomplish—
ments to its credit, but it is its “Teen Canteen”
which appeals most to the imagination. Once a
downtown youth center had been proposed, the
Junior Chamber of Commerce undertook the task
of locating a building and equipping it. Women’s
clubs cooperated with the commission’s Youth
Center Committee and the results were remarkable
in these days of war shortages. A four—story build—
ing was secured and was furnished with an eye to
the complete social recreation needs of the young
people of the community. Furthermore, an ener-
getic finance committee has, by private subscrip-
tion, raised funds to date amounting to about

$6,000.

For five days early in November parents of Ft.
Wayne, teachers, city officials, business men, and
high school boys and girls themselves came in
throngs to view their new “Teen Canteen.” Com-
munity interest in this ven-
ture has been of widest lati-
tude, for at least thirty-eight
local agencies are represented
in the Wayne Youth Com-
mission. During those five
days young people who were
eligible registered for future
attendance, and on the sixth

intensified

606

"A united front against Fort Wayne

youth's problems" is the slogan of
the Wayne Youth Commission which,

with the young peopleI is tackling
some of the problems that the war

in

Fort Wayne's Youth Center contains a
large auditorium or dance floor with
a stage; a soft drink bar; lounging
rooms; game rooms; executive offices.
and the headquarters of a number of
youth organizations in the city. The
basement will be used for games and

will have a dark room. handcraft shop
and other facilities for hobbies.

day—Saturday night, to
be exact—600 of them
paid admission to a dance
on the spacious third
floor which serves either
as dance hall or as audi-
torium. In the meantime
the second floor, the chief
attraction of which is a
canteen and a juke box, was so crowded “you
could scarcely walk through it,” according to an
interested adult spectator. The first floor, with
lounge and check room and tables for playing
bridge, was also jammed to capacity. Sixteen hun—
dred youngsters were proving that the time, the
expense, and the energy spent on the project had
not been wasted. '

Membership figures reached the 3,500 mark be-
fore two weeks were up. With dues of fifty cents
a year and with funds coming in from dance ad~
missions and‘ from the juke box, the committee
feels that within a year the canteen will be self~
supporting.

many cities.

Rules and Regulations

Eight representatives from each of the public
high schools make up a student council which
keeps the Wayne Youth Commission informed as
to the views and desires of Ft. Wayne boys and
girls. This council has worked out, together with
a policies committee composed of adults from the
commission, the following regulations which have
been adopted for the administration of the “Teen
Canteen.”

Membership. 'Membership in the Teen Canteen
shall be limited to those of teen age, resident of
Allen County, who are not attending grade school.

No person who is in service uniform, except a

father, mother, brother or sister of a member, or
who is married, or who is over nineteen years of

age, unless in a supervisory
capacity, shall be admitted for
participation.

Any person violating any
rule, or guilty of unbecoming
conduct, may be expelled
upon majority vote of i the
Student Council or by the

”( C ontimwd on page 642)

RECREATION

Art with a Little a

By ROCKWELL KENT

LAW SUIT was in progress: an architect was
A suing his client, or the client was suing his
architect, or—and most likely—they were
suing each other. And somehow or other I had
been called as an “expert” witn'ss.

“What is your profession?” asked the lawyer.

“I am a painter,” I said.

The lawyer looked a bit confused. The judge
looked up.

“Painter?” said the judge. “Do you paint
houses?”

“N o, I paint pictures,” I answered.

"‘We call that being an artist,” said the judge
very pleasantly.

“We picture painters,” I answered, “leave it to
others to call us artists if they think that we de-
serve the title. To ourselves we are just painters.”

And if the business of the court that day had
been to settle this matter, I might have continued
by explaining
that our incen-
tive in painting
pictures, chisel-
ling in stone,
modelling in clay,
carving in wood,
engraving in.
metal, in practis-
ing any or all of
what .3 are called
‘,‘The Arts,” is
the love of mak-
ing things with
our hands. In
other words: the

You can feel the
sea in this pot-
tery designed by
Rockwell Kent

and executed by
the Vernon Kilns
in Los Angeles

FEBRUARY 1944

 

"Our incentive . . . in practising any
or all of what are called 'The Arts.‘
is love of making things with our
hands," states Norman Rockwell in his
article, reprinted by permission from

the May I943 issue of Craft Horizons.

 

artist is first, last and always a craftsman. The
definition that “genius is the infinite capacity for
taking pains” is a recognition of the infinite labor
that goes into art. It is a recognition of the supreme
importance of craftsmanship.

If the business of the court that day had been to
settle legally and, on that basis of common sense
which is presumed to underlie the law, to divest
the whole subject of art of all the metaphysical
nonsense with which it has been clothed and re—
store to art as a universal human activity its fun-
damental right to be regarded as a useful craft, the

judge and jury, the lawyers and the witnesses,
might have rated immortality.

At any rate, all hearsay and conjecture, all
imagining and-generalization on the part of wit-
nesses would have been barred as immaterial and
irrelevant. No goddess Inspiration, no reference

(Continued on. page 638)

 

Courtesy Craft Horizons

m7

A Teen Age Recreation Survey in Long Beach

UBLIC RECREATION
P programs, once suc-

cessfully estab-
lished, have a tendency
to follow a pattern—a
tendency to resist
change. Certain activi-
ties may be stressed
season after season and
year after year simply
because administrators

By WALTER L. SCOTT

Director of Municipal and School Recreation
and

Supervisor of Physical Education in Schools
Long Beach. California

Boys and girls of Long Beach tell what
their recreational interests are, v.'1at

they like best to <:loI and what addi-
tional activities they would like to have

regarding- their recrea-
tion preferences. A ques-
tionnaire was designed
and circulated, and, as
a result, the Department
has at hand the state-
ments of 3,340 students
—a total which pro—
vides more than a mere
sampling and which
should be a reliable in-

know that they are
wholesome and because they consistently attract a
certain average of participation.

\N'artime conditions have a tendency to disturb
complacency and to impel appraisal of what is
being done so that an even greater contribution
may be made to community happiness and welfare,
especially juvenile welfare.

Both of these observations apply aptly to the
Long Beach coordinated school and municipal rec-
reation program in which a list of activities has
been built up and carried on consistently over a
period of fifteen years. This has been a large pro-
gram, particularly in the fields of aquatic sports
and athletics. The fields of art, music, rhythms,
dramatics, and handicraft were also served, and
social recreation had a prominent place. However,
the lack of an adequate and challenging social rec-
reation activity program for the teen age group
was apparent, and this was the age of those whose
conduct was beginning to attract comment from
one border of the nation to the other. The impact

of war was doing something to these youngsters,
and it became evident that

recreation programs needed

. (lication of the general
preferences of the age groups represented.‘

We Asked Them ——

Omitted from the suggested activities list were
reading, movies, usual types of commercial recrea-
tion, and purely spectator pastimes in general, not
that many such activities are not good recreation
but because such things are commonly outside the
scope of supervision by a public recreation depart-
ment. The mention of many of these activities in
the report on hobby interests may be noticed. Also
omitted was football, a popular sport more fre~
quently associated with school physical education
activities. The fact that mention of this sport was
possible only by writing it in constituted a disad—
vantage as compared with other team sports.
Oddly enough, by the write-in method, football
was nineteenth in the “doing” polumn for both
junior and senior high school boys.

The physical education instructors in the vari-
ous schools assisted in making the survey by dis-
tributing the blanks to their regular classes, giving

uniform and previously

to be overhauled to make
them more effective.
Prompted by the desire to
keep pace with the needs of
the times, problems were
studied from several points
of view. As one move which
seemed logical it was de—
cided to approach junior
high school and senior high
school boys and girls to get
an expression of opinion

ma

Long Beach. CaliforniaI is a seacoast com-
munityI a home port of the Pacific Fleet in
peacetime; in wartime, the center of vast
militaryI navalI and industrial activity. Ac-

cording to the latest census. the population
was I63.-27| in I940. Today it is estimated
at from 225,000 to 250.000. Surf and still

water bathing are among the natural ad- -

vantages which have been highly improved.
Existing parks, playgrounds, athletic fields
and clubhouses are a credit to the city. On
the other hand, the city is without publicly-
owned swimming pools or gymnasiums. Cli-
matic conditions encourage outdoor activi-
ties during the greater part of the year.

agreed upon explanation and
inStructions, and collecting
the blanks and delivering
them to the central office.
Since physical education is
compulsory and is partici-
pated in by all boys and
girls in the Long lBeach
schools, the students ap-
proached represented a per-
fect cross section of the
youth of the community of
the age groups included. The

RPF‘RPATIHN

A TEENAGE RECREATION SURVEY IN LONG BEACH 609

blanks were simple in form, presenting a list of
thirty—eight activities, all but four of which were
regularly supervised. Ample blank lines were in—
cluded for write—in additions. Three questions
were asked, all to be answered by simple-check
marks. These questions were:

I. “What activities do you frequently engage in ?”

2. “What are your three best—liked activities?”

3. “Indicate the activities concerning which you
would like more information and greater op-
portunity.”

Included on the blank was space for writing in
three hobby interests. N o suggestive list was pro-

vided.

What the Survey Revealed

N o doubt it is natural that in a city located on
the seacoast the activity which placed first as a

best-liked sport frequently engaged in was swim-
ming. This was the decision of all groups in the
survey. All but the senior high school girls listed
it as the activity in which more knowledge and op-
portunity were desired. Swimming was also listed
as the leading sports hobby for all groups.
Perhaps the most direct way to give the reader
the salient points revealed in the questionnaire re—
turns is by tabular arrangements. This may be

.done by showing the place on the list given each

activity—that is, whether its place is first, second,
or third, etc., in the number of votes given it. As
explained, each student checked three columns on
the questionnaire which we will specify as “doing,”
“liking,” and “more knowledge.” For convenience
this table is divided into two parts, the first giving
the activities which headed the survey in positions
numbered from one to ten:

SENIOR HIGH BOYS

 

DOING LIKING MORE KNOWLEDGE

1 Swimming Swimming Swimming

2 Basketball ' Basket-ball Boxing

3 Baseball Camping Wrestling

4 Softball Baseball Model aircraft
5 Model aircraft Model aircraft Life saving

6 Camping Social dancing Baseball

7 Handball Boxing Basketball

8 Social dancing Softball Fishing

9 Fishing Fishing Camping

10 Gardening W'restling Tennis

, SENIOR HIGH GIRLS '
1 Swimming Swimming Tennis

2 Social dancing Social dancing Social dancing
3 Tennis Tennis Swimming

4 Volley ball Camping Dramatics

5 Basketball Softball Camping

6 Baseball Dramatics Badminton

7 Softball Basketball Life saving

8 Camping Volley ball Handcraft

9 Badminton Baseball Fishing

10 Gardening Badminton Volley ball

JUNIOR HIGH BOYS
1 Swimming Swimming Swimming
, 2 Baseball Baseball Baseball

3 Softball Model aircraft Model aircraft
4 Model aircraft Camping Boxing

5 Basketball Softball Wrestling

6 Camping Basketball Camping

7 Boxing Fishing Fishing

8 Fishing Boxing Basketball

9 Wrestling Wrestling Softball

10 Track and field Football Life saving

JUNIOR HIGH GIRLS

1 Swimming Swimming Swimming
2 Baseball Social dancing Social dancing
3 Social dancing Tennis Tennis
4 Basketball Baseball Dramatics
5 Volley ball Camping Camping

6 Softball Dramatics Baseball
7 Paddle tennis Sketching Badminton

8 Tennis Group singing Life saving
9 Group singing Softball w Sketching

10 Gardening Artcra ft Paddle tennis

.NOTE: Of these activities, all were regularly supervised by the Long Beach Recreation Commission before the time of the survey

except social dancing, camping, boxing, and wrestling.

FEBRUARY 1944

610

 

Day camping at Camp Sea Hawk is one of the most
popular activities for boys in the summer program

Everyone examining this table must agree that,’
first of all, it reflects keen interest in clean, active
recreation, and in this respect it is a tribute to the
wholesomeness of the four groups represented.
These young people are not “going to the dogs” as
some would have us believe. Those who can re-
member the old days, before the organization of
supervised public recreation had made much prog—
ress, know the dangers which confronted the teen-
agers of that day when much idle time was spent
in hanging around smoky pool halls, livery stables,
and the corner saloon. Today’s off-side amuse-
ments include certain taverns and road houses,
indecent shows, and the badly supervised type of
public dance halls. In 'the face of all .of these
things it is heartening to realize that young pe0ple
are benefiting so decidedly through present-day
recreation programs.

Close study will reveal both remarkable simi-
larities and striking differences between the sev-
eral sections of the table, but all following a pat-
tern which appears highly consistent. One point
which may have great significance is the similarity
between the likes of high school and junior high
school girls. This may reveal a degree of maturity

A TEEN AGE RECREATION SURVEY IN LONG BEACH

on the part of the juniors
beyond that with which
they have generally been
credited. For instance, in
the “lik—ing” column, the
first six activities named
are practically the same
forbthe two groups, as are
the‘first five in the “more
knowledge” column.

As girls listed baseball
high in the “doing” col-
umn, we infer that some
may have confused it with
softball, although some may
have reported their spec-
tator interest in the sport.

Swimming, as previously
pointed out, is at the top
throughout the lists, ex-
cept that it takes third
place on the list of what
senior high school girls
want to learn more about.
Life saving, a related ac-
tivity, is too far down the list to appear in the
table showing the first ten activity interests in
either the “doing” or the “liking” column, but in
the case of the “more knowledge” column it ap—
pears for all four groups. '

In the “doing” column, gardening was in tenth
place in three of the four lists, and in the case of
the fourth it was eleventh. This is a remarkably
uniform listing, but equally noticeable is the fact
that it missed placement on any of the “liking” or
“more knowledge” lists in this table.

Undoubtedly the position of social dancing on
these lists has attracted the attention of the reader.
This activity is in second place on the “doing”
list for senior high school girls, and third on the
same list for junior high girls, and it is in second
place on both the “liking” and “more knowledge”
columns for both senior and junior high school
girls. With high school boys it is eighth in the
“doing” column, sixth in the “liking” column,
while it missed listing in this table by being
eleventh in the “more knowledge” column. In the
case of junior high school boys it does not get into
the first ten groups at all, being twenty-first in the
“doing” column, thirteenth in the “liking” col-
umn, and twelfth in the “more knowledge” column.

Tennis is high on all lists for both senior and
junior high school girls. In the case of the boys

Photo by Jasper Nutter

RECREATION

A TEEN AGE RECREATION SURVEY IN LONG BEACH 611

it is in tenth place in the “more knowledge” col-
umn for the high school ages, thirteenth on their
“doing” list, and eleventh on their “liking” list.
\Vith junior high school boys it was twentieth on
their “doing” list, and eighteenth on their “liking”
list.

Notice that the position of fishing is about uni—
form on all lists for boys. In the case of high
school girls it is found ninth on the “more knowl—
edge” list, while on the “doing” list it was twenty—
seventh, and on the “liking” list, eighteenth. With
junior high girls it was thirty-second on the “do-
ing” list, twenty-second on the “liking” list, and
eighteenth on the “more knowledge” list. Organ-
ized fishing clubs have been composed exclusively

of boys.

Attention is also particularly invited to the
place camping occupies. In contrast with most
other activities mentioned, camping had not been
promoted by the Recreation Commission at the
time the questionnaire was completed. The fact
that in this part of the country, within a hundred
miles of the city, every type of natural camping
facility is to be found from the seashore to the
lakes~ and woods in the high elevations of the
Sierras, may have much to do with the popularity
of this type of outing activity. Camping has been
promoted locally by several of the character-build-
ing organizations.

Perhaps the fact that
there appears no mention
in this table of musical ac-
tivities except in the “lik-
ing” column for junior
high school girls, where
group singing appears in
eighth: place, has been
noticed. In addition to
‘group singing, playground
bands and orchestras were
also listed on the question-
naire. These activities show
up frequently in the sec-
ond table to be presented,
which lists the activities
appearing in eleventh to
twentieth place.

The two tables will pro-
vide information for a
nearly complete analysis of
the survey. Of the thirty-
eight activities listed on the
questionnaire form, all ap-

FEBRUARY 1944

pear in the two tables except eight: auditorium
programs, puppetry, nature groups, circus pag-
eants, basketry, storytelling, and girls’ play days.
General observation on the playgrounds indicates
that most of these are very popular with elemen-
tary age children.

Of the many write—ins, the most frequently
mentioned were horseback riding, skating, bowl-
ing, and sailing. Of these, sailing is the only one
promoted by this Department. No further attempt
to evaluate the survey or to comment on special
features will' be made. A great amount of com-
parison must be made before all of the significance
is apparent, but this will be left to the reader, as an
attempt to analyze fully all sections of the report
would probably result in overcomplication and
defeat the purpose.

As explained, hobby interests were not sug-
gested on the questionnaire form, but each boy

‘ and girl was requested to write in three hobbies

which claimed the most interest. As a result a
wide variety of activities were listed—too many
to give in full in this report. Some highlights are
interesting and important to consider along with
the recreational activity lists which have been given.

The teen age dance program combines instruction
with social enjoyment in the Long Beach program

 

Photo by Jasper Nutter

612

 

DOING LIKING MORE KNO\VLEDG’E

11 \Vrestling Tennis Social dancing

12 Boxing Handball _ Softball]

13 Tennis Track and field ' Tumbling

l4 Badminton Band and orchestra Handball

15 Track and field *Football Track and field

16 Life saving Life saving Badminton

17 Paddle tennis Gardening Band ahd orchestra

18 Band and orchestra Paddle tennis Model boats

19 *Football Tumbling Sketching

20 Volley ball BicyCIing Paddle tennis
SENIOR HIGH GIRLS

11 Group singing Group singing Gardening

12 Paddle tennis Sketching Sketching

13 Rhythms Artcraft Paddle tennis

14 Sketching Band and orchestra Rhythms

15 Dramatics Handcraft Softball

16 Handcraft Gardening Artcraft

17 Artcraft Rhythms Basketball

18 Folk dancing Fishing Tumbling

19 Band and orchestra Mpdel aircraft Group singing

20 Square dancing Blcyding Baseball
JUNIOR HIGH BOYS

11 Gardening Model boats Tumbling

12 Model boats Tumbling Social dancing

13 Band and orchestra Social dancing Model boats ,

l4 Handball Track and field Track and field

15 Tumbling Band and orchestra Tennis

16 Paddle tennis Blcycllng Handcraft

l7 Bicycling SkEtChing Gardening

18 Handcraft Tennis Paddle tennis

19 *Football Artcraft Band and orchestra

20 Tennis ' Life saving Badminton
JUNIOR HIGH GIRLS

11 Rhythms Badminton Handcraft

12 Camping Basketball Group singing

13 Sketching Tumbling Rhythms

l4 Badminton Paddle tennis Gardening

15 Dramatics Handcraft Basketball

16 Handcraft Bicycling Softball

1? Bicycling _ Band and orchestra Artcraft

18 Band and orchestra Volley ball Fishing

19 Folk dancing Life saving Volley ball

20 Square dancing Gardening Bicycling

A TEEN AGE RECREATION SURVEY IN LONG BEACH

 

l"

SENIOR HIGH BOYS

 

 

 

 

*Football, omitted from printed list, as explained, was probably handicapped by the necessity of writing in. No doubt it would

have placed higher if it had been listed.

Two ways of tabulating such hobby returns sug-
gest themselves. One method would require an
item headed “collecting,” under which all kinds of
collecting interests would be placed. The result
would place this type of activity Very high. For
instance, it would be second for high school boys,
third for high school girls, third for junior high
boys, and second for junior high girls. Far in the
lead in all groups would be activities grouped as
“sports, athletic games and skills.” Activities
classes as “homemaking and personal” would be
sixth for high school girls, and eighth for junior
high schobl girls.

While the general grouping of hobby interests
might prove interesting, within the space available,
it will probably be of more value to list the hob-

bies specifically. ‘or this reason we have selected
the first twenty-five hobbies for each group. Of
these lists the following activities were not pro-
moted by the Recreation Commission: Aviation,
alley bowling, boxing, cars, chemistry, certain
types of collecting, cooking, social dancing, de-
signing, horseback riding, hunting, knitting, me-'
chanics, animal raising, photography, piano, radio,
reading, skating, swing, and wrestling.

“Movies and shows” as a hobby requires a word
of explanation. It seems probable that most of
those mentioning them refer to commercial movie
shows. However the Department conducts an ex-
tensive playground movie program which may
have influenced some replies.

The reader will notice how closely the hobby

RECREATION

 

A TEEN AGE RECREATION SURVEY IN LONG BEACH 613

lists parallel the recreational activity lists in the
leading activities mentioned. No further comment
is required, except that it may be pointed out that
certain appear on all four lists. These are swim-
ming, dancing, baseball, model airplane building,
photography, handcrafts, and collecting.

TWENTY-FIVE SPECIFIC HOBBIES

HIGH SCHOOL BOYS HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS

1 Swimming Swimming
2 Model airplane building Dancmg

3 Collecting stamps Music
4 Fishing Reading
5 Photography Tennis
6 Baseball Horseback riding
7 Football Bowling
8 Aviation Skating
9 Mechanics Collecting stamps
10 Radio Photography
11 Pets and animal raising Swimming
12 Reading Piano
13 Cars Singing
14 Horseback riding Scrapbook
15 Basketball Baseball
16 Gardening Movres and shows
17 Tennis Drawmg
18 Bowling Bicycling
l9 Boating " Cooking -
20 Woodworking Collecting recordings
21 Dancing Gardenmg
22 Art Knlttmg
23 Collecting coins Camping
24 Skating Dramatlcs
25 Handcrafts Hiking

JUNIOR HIGH BOYS JUNIOR HIGH GIRLS

1 Model airplane building Swimming
2 Swimming Dancing
3 Collecting stamps Reading
4 Baseball Horseback riding
5 Aviation \ Stamp collecting
6 Fishing Skating
7 Camping Baseball
8 Football Tennis
9 Model boat 'building Collecting movie stars’
10 Hunting pictures
1 1 Boxing Drawing
12 Basketball Dramatics
13 Photography Movies
14 Collecting coins Bicycling
.15 Chemistry Sewing
l6 Boating Singing

17 Pets and animal raising Piano

18 Model building Collecting dolls I
19 Softball Photography

20 Horseback riding Handcrafts

21 Drawing Knitting

22 Wrestling Scrapbook

23 Gardening Collecting perfume bottles

24 Collecting photos, Collecting match folders
_ pictures Designing
2:) Dancing Sketching

Doing Something About It

Confident of the value of the survey as being
indicative of the desires of the young people, cer-
tain steps were taken at once to do something
about it. New activities were started and others
were expanded: We believe our program is “on

FEBRUARY 1944

the beam” now. At least the newer and expanded
activities listed herewith are attracting enthusiastic
and large groups of young people.

I. Developed Camp Sea Hawk—day camp
with plans developing for overnight use. i

2. Started family playground picnic programs.

3. Started teen age dances (junior high school
emphasis).

4. Started monthly matinee dances in high
schools and junior high schools.

5. Started weekly Friday night dances at mu-
nicipal auditorium, high school, and junior
college students.

6. Rented pools for swimming classes.

7. Rented gymnasiums for basketball.

8. Expanded Saturday athletic program for
junior high boys. _

9. Doubled model aircraft classes on play-
grounds.

IO. Doubled playground movie schedules.

II. Expanded community (auditorium) enter-
tainment programs for families.

12. Increased Victory Gardening tremendously.

' NOTE: Mr. Scott wishes to express his appreciation of-

the assistance given in the preparation of this article
by Lloyd A. Rochford, Research and Publications
Consultant of the Long Beach Recreation Commission.

“I am not one of those people who takes a gloomy
view of the younger generation of Americans. That
generation is supposed to have been going to the
dogs ever since history began. As far back as the
tenth century before Christ the gloomy old Greek
poet, Hesiod, was crying, ‘I see no hope for the
future of our people if they are to be dependent
upon the frivolous youth of today. For certainly
all the youth are reckless beyond comparison and
opinionated far beyond their years. When I was a
boy we were taught to be discreet and respectful'
toward our elders, but the present youth are ex-
ceeding wise and impatient of restraint.’ Hesiod
should have known better. To judge by history the
younger generation always grows up and develops
some sense just in time to save civilization.

“Seriously, I believe that our young people are
making a magnificent adjustment to an extremely
diflicult wartime situation. . . . They are not only
‘taking it.’ They are making positive contributions
to the winning of the war. . . . And they under-
stand as perhaps no other generation of youngsters
has understood What it means to be citizens of a
free democracy. . . .”—Charles P. Taft in the
Journal of Social Hygiene, November 1943. '

Mardi Gras a la Genesee Settlement

HEN THE HUM and ex-
W citement of Christmas

are over, a pause known
as the zero hour occurs in the
life of a club worker. Since it
is far too early to begin Eas-
ter programs, what can be
found that will hold the in—
terest of the group?

Last summer our day

camp carried out a Mardi
gras program that could, no
doubt, be used to better advantage at this time of
year, for imitation of that famous festival is a
“natural” for the period irmnediately following
Christmas. Mardi gras affords many possibilities
for the creative spirit, it is a project that has no
age limit in appeal, and it is colorful enough to
attract the attention of the whole community.
. In our neighborhood, we knew, the term,
“Mardi gras,” was quite meaningless. Our first
job, therefore, was to orient the children to our
idea. This broadside, proposing a program of car-
nival days and a Mardi gras, was sent out to
schools and community:

Have you ever seen a carnival? Perhaps not, but
I’m sure you have heard of one, haven’t you? You
can easily imagine what one is like.

It is really a time when people have a good time.
It’s a time of happiness and joy when everyone just
lets himself go. But who got this idea of carnivals
and where do they come from?

People make carnivals for themselves to celebrate
some big occasion. They have them in the big cities
in the South, and they have them in South America
and Mexico, too. Everybody gets together and makes
plans for the big carnival. They decide what kind of
costumes they want and what their floats will be like.

Since anybody can make a carnival for himself,
how would you kids like to have one all your own at
the end of day camp? It would be lots of fun—but
it means plenty of work, too. But work like this is
always part of the fun.

Now don’t get me wrong. Working toward a car-
nival isn’t going to interfere with swimming and hikes
and things like that. You see, you can work on the
Mardi gras on the days that you don’t go swimming
and stay at the Settlement House. Instead of just
making something and taking it home, it would be
more fun if you make something that would help
make the carnival—costumes, floats, etc. What a lot
of fun we could have if we'd all settle down and get

By MARGARET MCGEE
Genesee Settlement House
Rochester. New York

The name Mardi gras ("fat Tuesday")
is applied to one day—Shrove Tues-
day—the day before Ash Wednesday
which opens the Lenten season. and
its origin was religious.
feast before a fast. a day of fun
before the long period of atonement.

busy! You can do it if you’ll put
your minds to it.

You know, in New Orleans—
that’s in the South— they have a
very big carnival every year that
they call the Mardi gras. Mardi
gras is a sort of fancy name for
carnival. If we have a carnival
we can call it the Mardi gras.
We can dress up, have a big pro-
cession, floats, and everything
that they have at the real Mardi
gras. We can even choose a
king and queen and pages. You
could invite your families and frieiids—let everyone
have a good time.

Well, kids, it’s up to you. What do you say? DO
WE HAVE A MARDI cans?

By the time day camp started the children were

at least familiar with the terms. During the first
week of camp a movie entitled “New Orleans"
was shown. The climax of this movie, scenes from
the Mardi gras, were shown twice. Later, at as-
sembly, the children heard the story of the first
Mardi gras and how the celebration has come to be
a national play day—a day attended by people
from all parts of the United States.

Literature on the subject, we discovered, was all
adult, so we wrote our own for the children and
distributed the stories, along with travel folders of
the deep South. Thus we hoped to create at least‘
an impression of what a Mardi gras could be. We
explained to the children what the real carnival
days are like and what we had planned for our
carnival days. ’

It was a

carnival days, arranged for the Fridays pre-
ceding the closing of camp, were each given a
name, such as Wheel Day, Backward Day, Couple
Day, Bring-a—Friend Day. On Wheel Day the
children came on skates, scooters and wagons.
The very young ones made pin wheels and had a
pin wheel race. Names of winners of events were
recorded each carnival day, and prizes were
awarded by the king and queen at the Mardi gras,
which was closing day of camp.

Enthusiasm was slow in appearing, but once
the older and more proficient children got the idea,
it was touch and go to the finish. For the Mardi
gras we suggested a Mother Goose theme, since
many of the children were under twelve. But fairy

(Continued on page 636)

Fit to Fight

HOSE of us charged
with responsibility
for military train-
_.ing in the Army Ser-
vice Forces have the task of developing inductees
into efhcient hghting men as quickly as possible.

Given every advantage, our job is still a difficult
one because of the complicated nature of modern
war. This is a technical war in which 90 per cent
of our soldiers must fill assignments requiring
some degree of specialized knowledge or skill.
They must fly planes which can be kept in the air
only by the efficient functioning of hundreds of
expert technicians on the ground. They must
operate tanks whose giant engines, revolving tur-
rets, and delicate gyro-stabilizers challenge the
skill of the ablest technicians. They must fire guns
whose accuracy and speed is controlled by mechan-
ical and electrical instruments but little less com-
plicated than those in the plane and tank. They
must operate radios, telephones and teletypes.

Add to this the pressure caused by the demands
for speed and you arrive at some conception of our
difficulties. We are com-
peting . against enemies
who have spent years in

By Brigadier General WALTER L. WEIBLE

Director of Military Training
Army Service Forces

U. S. troops of the Ranger Battalions. America's
Special Service soldiers' are now in training with

training their youth
and adults to fight.
To overcome this
handicap, every min-

I ute of our training time now must make up for the

years of delay in beginning our own preparations.
Every hour of prior training is an hour saved
from the precious time required to develop a
civilian into a soldier ready for combat.

The speed and efficiency with which we can do
our job of postinduction training is largely de-
termined by “the proficiency of the inductees when
they come to us. We can train them more quickly
and effectively if, when they reach us, they possess
an appreciation of the cause for which we are
fighting; a general understanding of the nature of
military life; a mastery of simple communication
and mathematical skills; and a” background of
technical training or experience which will be use-
ful in some specialized Army job.

It is important that inductees possess these quali-
fications ; it is essential that they be physically fit.
I welcome the opportunity of discussing this es-
sential prerequisite of
military training with you
who have done so much

the Commandos somewhere in the United Kingdom

FEBRUARY 1944

 

“e Ojicial Sigal orps hoto

615

616 FIT TO FIGHT-

to encourage and promote
physical fitness among the
youth of the nation.

Although I shall confine
my remarks to a discussion
of the need for health and
physical fitness as it relates
to Army training and combat
duty, I would like to mention
in passing that thousands of
potential soldiers never reach
us because they are rejected
by local Selective Service
boards or induction stations for physical deficien-
cies. At a time when the Selective Service Admin-
istration is literally “scraping the bottom of the
barrel” for men to meet our Army quotas and to
replace the casualties which must inevitably come
as the war progresses, we are denied the services
of over 200 in every thousand available men
between the ages of 18 and 37 years because they
are unable to pass the required physical tests. The
physical deficiencies of many of these “rejects”
might have been avoided or corrected through
proper attention in earlier life.

Essential Qualities of Physical Fitness

What specific qualities of physical fitness are of
most assistance to the soldier in training and in
combat? They may be summarized by the follow-
ing definitions and situations.

Endurance—prolonged physical exertion without
excessive fatigue. The soldier’s day at a typical
Replacement Training Center begins with “First
Call” at 5 :45 A. M. and ends with “Taps” at
10:00 P. M. And this day of sixteen hours is still
too short to include all the class work, drill, calis—
thenics, hikes, and other activities expected of him.
In combat he may have days when he must march
twenty miles with a forty pound pack on his back,
swim swollen rivers, and climb rugged mountains.
Whatever his schedule in training or his mission
in combat, you may be certain that he will need
physical endurance in abundance.

Muscular strength—the ability to lift, push, or
pull heavy objects. An Army truck axle deep in
the mud must be lifted out and Sped on its way.
Machine guns, mortars, and bazookas must be car-
ried tofiring positions. Monstrous shells must be
lifted into the chambers of guns. A scout must
climb the highest tree in the woods. These and
thousands of Army jobs like them require sheer
physical strength.

The Army is aslcing of schools. play-
grounds, and similar organizations that
they send boys with a solid foundation

of physical fitness on which to build.

The elements essential in preinduction
training were outlined by Brigadier
General Weible in an address delivered
at the annual meeting of the Federation
of State High School Athletic Associa-
tions which was held January 7. I944. in
Chicago. For use in RECREATION a few
deletions have been made in the article.

 

Agility—the ability to
handle one’s body quickly and
efficiently. An enemy tank is
Speeding through the woods.
Enemy snipers concealed in
trees throughout the forest
eagerly await the appearance
of a human target. Enemy
artillery shells are whistling
overhead. A soldier’s ability
to roll quickly away from the
approaching tank, to dive into
a foxhole, to dodge from tree
to tree, to hurdle a stone wall, may some day save

his life.

Speed—the ability to move rapidly. An enemy
pillbox is two hundred yards ahead. Before it can
be neutralized we must move closer in so that our -
machine gun and rifle fire will be more effective
and our flame throwers and hand grenades em-
ployed effectively. The Speed with which the move-
ment is made and the rapidity with which the guns
are set up in their new positions may determine
the success or failure of the mission.

Flexibility—the ability to turn, bend, and twist
the body into unusual positions and movements.
Lying on his stomach the soldier sees his objective
in the distance. Before he can get there he must
worm around logs, dodge land mines, roll into shell
holes and squirm through a seemingly endless
maze of barbed wire. And enemy machine guns
are laying a steady sheet of grazing lire immedi-
ately over his head. To negotiate the intervening
terrain, he must execute many body movements
resembling those of a professional contortionist.

Posture——the ability to maintain one’s body in
correct positions, healthy, alert and ready for
action. On the parade ground, in the classroom,
on the street—everywhere—a soldier is udged by
his posture and military bearing. Posture has a
direct relation to alertness.

Relaxation—the ability to avoid extreme and un-
necessary tension before, during, and after periods
of alertness and strenuous activity. There are few
intervals for relaxation in the heat of battle; every
man must be “on his toes” while at his duty sta-
tion. But when there is a lull in battle or when
replacements give his temporary relief, he must
have the knack of relaxing quickly and completely
so that he may be refreshed for whatever task may
lie ahead.

Fighting spirit——securely entrenched in concrete

RECREATION

FIT TO FIGHEF 617

placements, protected in front by the open sea and
a beach strewn with land mines and barbed wire,
guarded overhead by an umbrella of airplanes,
supported in the rear by heavy artillery, the enemy
awaits our attack.

Our men approach the beach in small boats.
With rifies, ammunition, and a minimum of equip-
ment, they go overboard and plunge through the
surf into the deadly fire of the enemy. They weave
their way across the bullet-swept beach, storm the
enemy fortifications, drive the foe inland, and con-
solidate their beach—head. This scene has been en-
acted in North Africa, Sicily, Italy, the Aleutians,
and in far flung islands of the Pacific.

Against tremendous odds, our men have won
battle after battle—because of unfailing courage,
physical and mental stamina, and aggressiveness.
This is fighting spirit.

Teamwork—the ability to work efficiently with
others in a common enterprise. Individuals are
often acclaimed for personal courage or accom-
plishment, but battles are won by team play. In
combat every man and every unit has a job to
perform—the scout, the engineer, the gunner, the
radioman, the truck driver, the cook. If any man
fails in his function, the entire mission may fail.
Teamwork in battle involves:

Leadership—the
ability to inspire
and lead others

Fellowship——the ' ‘
ability to execute ' v 7 '
properly the d1rec« . g ,

L 'I-bl
‘ ' ..
‘ ° n.
.1
u

tions given by
others

Cooperation—-
the ability to adopt
and adjust one’s
own actions to
those of others

1‘“

Initiative —— the
ability to rely on
one’s self.

Endurance,
strength, agility,
speed, flexibility,
posture, ability to
relax, fighting
Spirit, teamwork
_these are quali-
Hes needed by
every soldier in

FEBRUARY 1944

our modern army. If the inductee does not pos-
sess these qualities when he reaches us, we must
consume valuable time to develop them during his
already crowded training period. And you well
know that such qualities cannot be developed over-
night.

It would be highly presumptuous of the Army
to direct you to develop these needed qualities in
every future soldier, or even to suggest the means
by which they might be developed. As in all types
of preinduction training, the Army merely states
its needs which may be met _through such a
medium, and leaves entirely to the good judgment
of you gentlemen the decision as to how and to
what extent you will adjust your school programs
to meet these needs. .

As I was enumerating the physical attributes a
soldier needs in combat, you were probably think-
ing that these are the same qualities which are
needed in, and developed through, such competi—
tive sports as football, baseball, and track—and I

The Camp Hale, Colorado, mountain obstacle
course would be strenuous enough anywhere'
but when it is coupled with an altitude of
almost l0,000 feet. the record of ten min-
utes tor the complete round is remarkable

 

Official Signal Corps Photo

618 FIT TO FIGHT

would agree with you. As evidence of the value of
participation in competitive sports in the prepara-
tion of future soldiers, we might point to the
splendid military records made by such athletic
stars as:

Lt. Tom Harmon, all-American from Michigan,
twice reported missing in action, twice returned to
continue his mission against the Japs.

C apt. Dwight Fishwick, former Yale guard, who
distinguished himself as chief of a field hospital
during the North African campaign.

Walter Scholl, all-American halfback from
Cornell, holder of the Distinguished Flying Cross,
the Silver Star and six Oak Leaf Clusters to the
Air Medal.

Lt. Charles S prague, Col. (Light Horse) Harry
Wilson, General Laverne S aunders, and dozens of
others.

These men are outstanding soldiers, and there
is no doubt in my mind that their experience in
competitive sports contributed materially to their
military success. However, a physical education
program which limits its responsibility to the de—
velopment of-a few stars on a winning football
team is falling far short of meeting the needs of
the Army. In our Army it is not the goal that a
few leaders be physical supermen. Every soldier
in every branch of the service needs those charac-
teristics we too frequently expect and find only in
athletes.

In the Army we devote more time and attention
to the soldier Who is underdeveIOped physically
than to the one with superior development. If this
same principle were practiced in all of our sec-
ondary schools throughout the nation, we would

probably have fewer recruits who are unable to

meet the physical demands of a rigorous Army life.

The Physical Conditioning Program

A word of warning is in order at this point. I
understand that some schools, in their earnest
desire to prepare students to meet the physical
demands of Army life, are putting their boys
through exercises patterned directly after the most
strenuous phases of the Army’s postinduction
physical conditioning program. Some of these ex—
ercises would tax the strength of seasoned soldiers.
I can understand how such programs, particularly
when under the direction of inexperienced or sub-
stitute teachers, might seriously impair the health
of the participants. In the Army we make every
effort to fit our conditioning programs to the in—
dividual capacities of our men. Before any man is

allowed to participate in the program, we give'him
a thorough physical examination. Then we begin
with comparatively easy exercises and increase
their difficulty only as the men are able to “take
it.” All that we ask of the schools is that they
send us boys with a sound foundation of physical
fitness on which to build. We will do the rest.

Although I am not in~a position to suggest a
program which will meet the physical conditioning
demands of all prospective soldiers, I can present
you with inescapable evidence that a carefully
planned program of physical education can accom—
plish wonders in a comparatively short time. Last
year at Fort Riley, Kansas, the Special Service
Division of the Army gave a series of physical fit-
ness tests to a group' of newly inducted men. Six
weeks later, after they had been given a special
conditioning program, the men were given the
same tests. These are the results of the two tests:

Before training, 68 per cent met minimum re-
quirements in over-all fitness ,'

After training, 90 per cent met requirements.

In strength, 69 per cent before, 91 per cent
after;

In endurance, 59 per cent before, 86 per cent:
after;

In agility, 60 per cent before, 98 per cent after..

Only in speed was there no appreciable improve-‘
ment, and this was probably due to the fact that
speed was not among the qualities the physical
education program was designed to deve10p.

I am sure that if repeated in high schools-
throughout the nation, this experiment would re-
veal similar achievements in hundreds of the physi-
cal education programs you are operating in your
various states.

But physical fitness alone is not enough. To
survive under battle conditions in this war, a sol-
dier needs also to possess a fundamental knowl-
edge of personal hygiene and sanitation. Disease
has joined the enemy in lengthening our casualty
lists.

Our Army has already provided a remarkably
adequate medical service which has produced a
record of life-saving that is little short of miracu-
lous. The full knowledge of medical science with.
its most modern drugs, equipment, and skilled
practitioners are at the service of our men, but the
effectiveness of this elaborate service is directly
dependent upon the cooperation of every single
man. . . .

In conclusion, I assure you that you are making,
(Continued on page 635)

RECREATION i

Your Local Radio—A Salesman for Recreation

ERE IS RADIO—network

H and local—which en-
joys a greater annual
dollar volume than any other
advertising medium in the
world because it is a selling
job. “Well,” you say, “I
can’t buy time to ‘sell’ my recreation program” . . .
or “I can’t seem to get good speakers to go on the
air for me” . . . or “I don’t know the radio folks
in my town and probably they’re not interested
anyway.” Or maybe you say, “0. K. How do I go
about selling my recreation program by radio to my
public, my taxpayers, my potential participants?”

Use local stations where
possible, keeping the follow-
ing fact in mind:

You don’t have to tell
your station manager that
you know what is said at
this point, but it is wise to
remember it: The local sta-
tion manager gets his li-
cense to operate principally
because he proves need for
distinctly local radio ser- -
vices. The furtherance of
local recreation is practically
obligatory for his station is he chooses to broad—
cast in the “public interest, convenience, and
necessity.”

So here are a few suggestions for using local
radio to advantage, and many of them are worth
the appropriation of funds if it is possible to
secure them:

If your program features community recreation
groups or activities, get a popular local radio per-
son who understands your philosophy of recrea-
tion and conduct a series of broadcasts on the spot.
WRAL in Raleigh went out for a series of thirteen
weekly quarter hour programs called “Recreation
on 'the Spot.” These were remote live broad-
casts where radio and recreation schedules coin—
cided. Where they didn’t, the recording equip—
ment of the station was used and the recording
broadcast at the regular weekly period. This pro-
gram series was very well received, but suliicient
activity of broadcastable nature was hard to find

FEBRUARY 1944

By FRED FLETCHER

A challenge to the effective use
-of radio in getting across the
story of your recreation program

Mr. Fletcher is general manager of WRAL
at Raleigh. North Carolina. affiliated with
the Mutual Network. He is a member of
the Raleigh Recreation Commission and
represents Radio on the State Recreation
Committee appointed by Governor Brough-
ton. His graduate work at North Carolina
University was in the field of recreation re-
search. At a recent meeting of the state
committee. he offered recreation leaders
some practical suggestions out of his ex-
perience. You can profit by the extracts
from Mr. Fletcher's talk which we present.

to complete the thirteen ses-
sions on the air.

“Recreation on the Spot”
included preliminary cere-
monies at an intercivic-club
softball game, with inter-
» views, forecasts and good-
natured “ribbing.” Another was a description of a
Negro swimming meet. Still another was an “open-.
ing nite” at a community drama show where the
cast was composed of adults, with every actor or
actress making his or her “commnuity premier”
performance.

The “Junior Sportscaster” idea is a good one "for
summer activity, assuming
activities are constant
enough. The local radio sta-
tion held competitive audi-
tions in the elementary
schools for a sports an-
nouncer; the winner was
chosen for his ability to ad-
lib as well as to report box
scores. He was employed as
junior sportscaster on the
station and also as a junior
recreation leader in the mu—
nicipal program. He broad-
cast week days at 9:00 A. M., giving a complete
report of the preceding day’s activity and also the
schedule of events for the current day at the play—
grounds. Our sportscaster was twelve years old.
He made a point of using plenty of-local names!

The deve10pment of and support for a teen age
club in one of the southern cities was expedited
largely through the personal interest and enthusi-
asm of a local announcer on a morning record
show, with time, jokes and anecdotes. If there is
such a radio personality in your town, go see him,
cultivate his friendship, show him what you’re
doing, encourage his interest in youth, morale,
community Spirit in your city. If he has “a lick of
sense,” he’ll capitalize on your stuff for local names
and local public service, get local listeners and
local prestige. What else can the local station sell?
If there isn’t such a personality, find out via your
own private “poll” what local programs are best

(Continued on page 635)

619

West Hartford’s War Gardens

URING the sum-
D mer of 1943, the
Town of West
Hartford, Connecticut,
was the scene of a
modern miracle which happened,
not of itself, but through the team
work of the Town Fathers, the
War Garden Committee, the gar-
den clubs, and the people them-
selves. The miracle was that West Hartford, a
town of I0,ooo families, more than seventy per
cent of them in the white collar class, and with
many of the residents officials in the insurance and
manufacturing companies of Hartford, had planted
7,425 vegetable gardens, instead of the thousand
garden plots of normal times, cultivated 307 acres,
raised produce with an estimated value of $353,069,
and had to their credit approximately 386,725
quarts and 144,700 pints of canned goods! All this
from gardens on hard clay soil and turf land!

Add to this the crop of good will and neighbor-
liness generated by people working together in the
common cause of producing food at a critical time,
the increased health and morale of the gardeners,
the.hea1ing power of! working with nature in times
of great stress when'relaxation and change are so
necessary, and you will begin to appreciate the real
significance of this miracle and the great value of
the war garden program in \Vest Hartford.

How did it all come about?

In the month of February, when the snow was
on the ground and the thermometer hovered
around zero, I had just read an article in a farm
journal entitled “Dig or Diet,” explaining the
acute need for people to raise as much food as pos—
sible to counteract the shortage of farm labor and
farm machinery. Knowing that many of my
farmer friends were hit very hard by these condi—
tions, it seemed to me that
the only practical solution was
for the people to have vege—
table gardens and to raise all
the vegetables they could for
their own need. At that psy-
chological moment the door
bell rang and Dr. Lloyd H.

Bugbee, Superintendent of
Schools in West Hartford,

620

West Hartford's Recreation Department

made a spot survey of the Town's Vic- -~
tory Gardens and discovered a miracle!

By HARRY T. ARENs

Garden 'Specialist
Department of Recreation

Twenty-two million Victory Gardens in
W44 is the objective pr0posed for this
year's Victory Garden programI and the
importance of an early start is urged
by government officials and other lead-
ers in the movement. RECREATION is ac-
cordingly starting this month its publi-
cation of articles telling how recre-
ation departments and other community
groups have responded to the call.

and  W. Feldman,
Director of the Depart—
‘ ment of Recreation,

called and asked me if

I would serve as gar-
den supervisor of West Hartford.

I was impressed with their sin-
cerity and practical outlook. They
wanted a man who was an experi—
enced market gardener to come to
\Vest Hartford to give practical advice to garden-
ers and actually go to the gardens and demon-
strate garden techniques. Since this seemed to me
to be the best method of helping in the food short-
age I accepted and started to work March I, 1943.

Victory Gardening—Step by Step

My first official duty was to meet the Town
officials, who promised, and who carried out their
promises, to cooperate and give a helping hand to
the program. \Vhen \Var Ration Book No. 2 was
distributed at the schools, the ration authorities
had been kind enough to allow the Department of
Recreation to distribute a questionnaire in refer—
ence to gardens. These questionnaires were in the
office waiting .for me. They pertained to all types
of gardens and garden problems.

Mimeographed sheets were prepared answering
many of these questions which were general—such
as how to treat clay soil, and how toiprepare the
land. Another sheet was prepared- with general
garden information—such as the names of plow-
men, their phone number and address, and where
manure and garden supplies could be secured. In
addition to mailing these sheets to those who asked
for the information, they were distributed through
the public library, seed and hardware stores, and
greenhouses. Bulletins from the University of
Connecticut were also distributed through the De»
partment of Recreation.

Vacant land was secured
for persons who did not have
acreage of their own. All
vacant town-owned land and
school property was made
available for the use of gar-
deners. Many private owners.
allowed their vacant land to
be used without charge. In-

‘ RECREATION

WEST HARTFORD’S M/AR GARDENS 621

all, approximately four hundred garden plots were
assigned through the Department of Recreation
office.

The size of the community plots varied from
large plots, like Kingswood, where there were
eighty gardeners, to a town lot. The lots assigned
to people through the Department of Recreation
varied in size from 25’ x 25’ to 50’ x 150’. Every
effort was made to have each person get a plot
which he could garden successfully. Each appli-
cant was asked his previous gardening experience,
how much time he could devote to the garden, and
the size of his family. On
the large community plots
the lots were staked out by
the Engineering Depart-
ment. The Police Depart:
ment cooperated in seeing
that there was no stealing
of produce from gardens.
There was only one case
reported and prompt action
was taken in this instance.

The \Vest Hartford W ar
Garden Committee, Mrs.
Peter Cascio, chairman,
was a great help in making
the program successful.
The members aided in
every way possible. They
were especially helpful in
encouraging beginners by
assistance and advice.

A series of four garden
talks were given in the
Town Hall, covering dif-
ferent phases of gardening
from preparing the land to harvesting and storage
of the crop. These talks were well attended. I was
asked to speak before many of the local clubs. The
interest shown by members of these clubs was very
encouraging and many members had gardens.

Q». ,

\Vhen the gardens were planted, demonstrations
were given at the community plots, and we would
go from garden to garden to demonstrate some
special phase covering problems facing these gar—
deners, showing what to do and how to do it.
Experiences would be swapped, and darkness
usually overtook us before the demonstration was
over. These demonstrations were the highlight of
the service rendered and the people responded well
to advice given.

It was a continual marvel to see how successful

FEBRUARY 1944

 

people could he who had never had a garden be-
fore. The helpful spirit and good sportsmanship
shown, the sharing of tools and experience by all
was very inspirational. The gardeners fought the
bugs with their sprays; they toiled long and hard
to keep the soil loose and cultivate the gardens.
Several talks were given over the radio—espe-
cially “Uncle Jim’s Victory Garden Program” on
WJLC where we dramatized a demonstration on a
real plot; on the “Farm and Home Garden”. hour,

Winner of third place award in the National
Victory Garden Institute Photograph Contest

 

 

e ..

C. Foerster Photo, Ithaca, N. Y.

under the sponsorship of the State War Council,
where the story of West Hartford gardens was
told; on the Garden Forum program on Storage
over WT‘HT.

West Hartford was honored by a visit from
Governor Raymond E. Baldwin who made a tour
of the community plots in company with State and
Town officials and farm leaders. All spoke highly
of the work being done by the gardeners of West
Hartford. They were especially impressed with the
appearance of the gardens, as all were well culti-
vated and free of weeds.

A Harvest Show

One of the outstanding features of the season
was a harvest show held in the auditorium of Wil-
liam Hall High School, sponsored by the \Vest

622 WEST HARTFORD’S WAR GARDENS

Hartford War Garden Committee in cooperation
with the garden clubs. This show was outstanding,
and Professor Porter of the University of Con—
necticut, who visits many harvest shows, stated it
was one of the best he had ever seen. The original
displays, the quality of the vegetables diSplayed,
and the variety of classes at this show were
very good. Undoubtedly in future years there will
be many more entries, because it was so new to
most of the gardeners they did not realize their
produce was good enough to put on display.

The Kingswood and Bent community plots were
examples of fine garden practice. They ended
their good season by wheel-harrowing their land
and sowing a cover crop of rye. This crop, when
plowed under next spring, will enrich the land and
will also keep the land from washing out.

A Spot Survey Provided the Estimates

To determine the material result of the garden
program, a spot survey of ten typical blocks was
made. These blocks were selected by Mr. F reder-
ick B. Chamberlin, Town Engineer, to represent a
cross section of the community, from large to small
homes, and from thickly to thinly populated areas.
Of the two hundred fifty-nine homes visited in the
ten blocks, one hundred and eighty-seven, or 72.2
per cent, maintained gardens. Applying this per—
centage to the 10,284 family units in West Hart-
ford, according to compilation of the Board of
Assessors, the estimate of 7,425 gardens resulted.

From the families visited, together with data re-

ceived from individuals maintaining gardens on
plots allocated through the Department of Recrea—
tion, 256 gardeners estimated the value of their
produce at $12,174.50, or an average of $47.55 per
garden. When the total number of gardens‘in the
community, 7,425, is multiplied by this, one gets as
the total value of the produce raised on all gardens
as $353,069-00-

Estimates similarly arrived at indicate that the
size of the average garden in West Hartford was
1,800 square feet, and the total amount cultivated
by all gardeners in the community would be
13,365,000 square feet, or 307 acres.

The survey indicates that 67.2 per cent of the
war gardeners canned produce. The average per
gardener was 75.5 quarts and 29 pints, which,
when applied to the entire town, would estimate a
total pack of 386,725 quarts and 144,710 pints.

The notices the new3papers gave of the different
garden events and the doings of the gardeners,
were of great help in making the program suc-
cessful.

Last, but not least, the Town Fathers showed
wisdom in putting the Garden Program in the
Department of Recreation, as it has proved to be
very profitable recreation.

For a comprehensive 1944 Victory Garden pro-
gram:
1. Twenty—two million Victory Gardens.

2. Far more vacant lot, community and indus»
trial plant gardens need to be found and deve10ped.
The gasoline shortage may require many to use
busses, street cars or even bicycles to reach, our
gardens.-

3. Our gardens can and should produce far more
summer and fall greens: New Zealand spinach, let-
tuce, endive, broccoli, turnip greens, cabbage,
Chinese cabbage, collards, kale, spinach, as well as
carrots, turnips, beets, salsify and other root crops

to store for winter use.

4. Early and thorough preparation of the garden
soil will also yield greater production.

5. Control of bugs, diseases, and weeds when
they first appear and the use of disease resistant
varieties. '

6. Watering, not sprinkling; the garden also pays
big dividends. Community garden committees have
a responsibility for making greater water supplies
available for Victory Gardens in the dry season.

7. Gardensshould be large enough to supply the
family’s needs for summer and fall use fresh, for
canning some of the winter’s supply, and also some
cabbage and root crops for winter storage.

8. White and sweet potatoes, sweet corn, cucum-
bers and squash take up a lot of space in gardens,
and it would be well, therefore, not to plant them
in gardens smaller than 1,5oo~1,800 feet.

9. Because of the daily need for an adequate in-
take of vitamins A and C, and the minerals, lime
and iron, far more reliance should be placed on
green, leafy, and yellow vegetables and tomatoes.

10. Suburban homes and farms should plant far
more fruit for home use. Even small places'can
grow strawberries and bush fruits. hssened com-
mercial supplies of canned fruit almost dictate that
every home owner with sufficient ground space
plant fruit now. I

11. Waste of vegetables can be avoided by not
sowing'too much of a kind at one time. Every
effort should be made to can any surplus.

12. Waste should also be avoided by not sowing
too thickly and by thinning the seedlings.

From Gardening for Victory, available from the
National Victory Garden Institute, New York City.

RECREATION

A Theatre for Children

” HILDREN’S theatre”
C is a term used to
describe either
theatre by or theatre for
children. It is in the lat-
ter that the Junior League
of Lynchburg has been
actively interested for the
past five years. During
that time all elementary
school children of the
community have had opportunity to see living
actors in plays especially selected to meet their
interests. Most of these children were seeing such
plays for the first time. Some had to be told that,
unlike the movies, the show would not start again
after the final curtain. Convinced of this, they left
their seats reluctantly to wait six months or a year
to see the next play. A few of the most enterpris-
ing found their way to the theatre and tried to
“crash the gate” at later performances for schools
other than their own.

It was this enthusiasm on the part of the audi-
ence that carried the program along when each
year the participants declared they simply could
not find time and energy again for eight or ten
performances (sometimes as many as three in one
day) in addition to the time consumed in plan-
ning, rehearsing, and getting ready for produc-
tions. There ,is something very persuasive, how-
ever, about an audience that is so intent on the
play you are producing that it quietly moves nearer
and nearer to the stage until the vanguard is
perched on the footlights in order not to miss a
single word or motion. And the shows have gone on.

The Junior League nationally is interested in
sponsoring children’s theatre. There had been in-
termittent interest for years in the Lynchburg
League but it was not until 1938 that someone
thought of combining this in-
terest with the facilities and
perhaps some of the talent of
the Lynchburg Little Theatre.
A committee of the League ap-
proached the Little Theatre
Board asking for permission to
use the theatre and equipment.
The Little Theatre agreed,
stipulating that plans must be

FEBRUARY 1944

The show still goes on in Lynchburg
though these days the cast is heard
and not seen. But when the war is

over they'll go OFF the air and back
to the stage of the Little Theatre!

By JEAN OGDEN

"The children's theatre is much the
most effective teacher of morals and
promoter of good conduct that the
ingenuity of man has yet devised. for
the reason that its lessons are not
taught wearin by book and dreary
homily. but by visible and enthu'sing
action: and they go straight to the
heartI which is the rightest of right
places for them."—Mark Twain.

worked out carefully
enough so that rehearsals
and productions of the
children’s plays would
never conflict with those
of the Little Theatre. One
enthusiast, a member of
both organizations, vol-
unteered to work out the
schedule and to carry
most of the responsibility
where use of the theatre was involved.

The next step was to approach the Superin-
tendent of Schools. He received the idea with en-
thusiasm and promised wholehearted cooperation
of the schools. The P.T.A., the local newspapers,
and the radio station also promised support. ‘

A member of the technical staff of the League
came from New York to meet with members of the
local League and work out the details of the plan.
She also assisted in a program of informing the
public. A scene from “The Bluebird” was pro-
duced as a kind of demonstration for teachers,
parents, the press, and other interested adults.

Then a cast went to work seriously on rehearsals ‘
of “Jack and the Beanstalk.”

While the play was being prepared a committee
worked on details for publicity, distribution of
tickets, and transportation. The procedures worked
out for that first production continued with minor
modifications for subsequent programs.

Each school gave one assembly period to pub—
licity. A member of the League attended and told
the story of the play. Thus when the children
reached the theatre the play need not be marred
by speeches or announcements. Tickets were sold
for ten cents.‘ (Adults were discouraged by a
charge of fifty cents if they insisted on attending.)
For children certified by the school as unable to
pay there were free tickets.
The public transportation com—
pany agreed to have special
busses to take the children
from school to theatre and
back to school. The regular
fare for school children was
the only charge for this special
service. Here, too, provision

( C ointinued on page 636)

623

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

” I RD Pictures in Color.” Ninth and tenth

series by Louis Agassiz Fuertes. An excel—
lent 20 x 40 inch chart. Free. Church Dwight Com-
pany, 70 Pine Street, New York City.

Birds. “The W. K. Kellogg Bird Sanctuary in
Wildlife Researches,” by Miles D. Pirnie. Modern

Game Breeding, July 1943. Doylestown, Pennsyl-
vania. Price 25 cents per copy.

Camping. “Self—preservation in the \Voods” or
“Self-reliance on the Trail” might be titles for the
Cornell Rural School Leaflet for September 1943.
This school year marks the seventy-iifth year of
rural school service by the University.

Conservation. “Wildlife Conditions in National
Parks,” National Parks Service, May 1943. U. S.
Department of the Interior, Chicago.

Field Illusenm of Natural History, Chicago,
celebrated its fiftieth anniversary September I6,
1943. Established for popular education along
scientific lines it grew out of the Columbian Ex-
position. Instead of being a biological morgue it
has been an up-to-date educator of the public.

.7!

“Forests, America's. This pamphlet gives the
history and value of forests in this country. 44 pp.
with excellent illustrations. American Forest
Products Industries, Inc., Washington, D. C.

Nature Guide School, Houston, Texas. Con-
ducted by the Park and Recreation Department
and organized in the summer of 1943 with a faculty
of six nature leaders, the School promises to be a
sound basis for an expanding nature program.
The city-wide Nature Fair held in November is
one outgrowth of this program. All civic, patri—
otic and youth serving or-
ganizations help actively in
distributing posters for the
Fair all over Houston.

Observation. The British
Army authorities cooperating
with the Royal Society aim to
keep alert the minds and eyes
of servicemen on prolonged
watching. Antiaircraft gun-
ners, for example, are often

Cap'n Bill says:

624

llNature recreation
cannot be 'iug-handled.‘ As a mutual
activity it has through the ages been
a tountainhead of song. poetry, hand-
cratt, foraging. exploration, and dis-
covery. If you are a leader, you are
leading people rather than a‘ subiect.
It you should visit the homes of your
children you might make discoveries of
nature hobbies that would, in the end. 1319 18th Street, N- “In!

make your program more effective.”

stationed in uninviting places. The “observation
target” requires eyes, pencil, and notebook. Ob-
servation target No. I is the wood pigeon which
is a crop pest. Facts must be gathered before
bringing the bird under control. Where nest? How
many young? When feed? Nature of surround-
ings? Reports will be based on return cards. The
Spread of the fulmar,petrel which once nested only
on the island of St. Kilda is another target.

In the Mediterranean area observations are in-
vited on the height of raised beaches and of marine
shells on ancient buildings. Other targets are arti—
facts, bird migrations, stars, and the weather.

Oil. “Battle for Oil.” Fifteen minute sound
film. Rental $2.00. Teacher’s Guide available
from the Educational Film Association, 45 Rocke-
feller Plaza, New York City.

Science. “Little Science Series” will help you
in science club Work for high school age boys and
girls. Write, indicating the quantity you need, to
the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing
Company, 306 Fourth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania.

“Steel in the Making.” Free illustrated booklet.
Bethlehem Steel Company, Bethlehem, Pennsyl—
vania.

Terrarimn. “The School Terrarium” explains
the setting up and care of various terraria, such as
swamp moist woodland, desert, etc. General Bio—

logical Supply House, "61 East 69th Place, Chi-
cago 37.

“Trees for Tomorrow.” An illustrated story of
conservation. American For—
est Products Industries, Inc.,
1319 18th Street, N. W'.,
Washington, D. C.

Wood. “New Wood for
New Things for Tomorrow.”

32 pp. Illustrated. Free upon
request. American Forest
Products Industries, Inc.,

Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

 

Fun in the School Center

.1

U REMEMBER that school

house still: the musty smell

of chalk dust, the rows of
double desks with their hiero-
glyphics carefully and lovingly
carved by knives clutched in‘
grimy fingers and hidden behind
a McCauley reader; the rustle
of starched ruffles on little girls’ pinafores ; and the
fascinating manner in which teacher’s pompadour
trembled with each firm step all created that
peculiar atmosphere that meant school and that
started when the bell rang in the morning and
ended joyfully when it pealed out “Freedom” in
the afternoon.

It's surprising how greatly such a design for
living can change with the passing years, and yet
the human element remains unchanging. The
school building is constant, but it serves in the
night as well as in the day, and the lights shining
through its windows call Joe and his Calico Queen
back into its walls where they find a far broader
program than the traditional reading and writing
and ’rithmetic, and where they know that the
“hickory stick” is entirely unnecessary when they
can follow their own interest.

Joe and his Calico Queen went all the way
through school together. After school they played
on the school grounds and in the nearby play-
ground. They fmished school and started to High
School. Joe had a job offered him and he decided
to stop school and take it. A short time after his
girl stopped because she was needed at home. Joe
felt those coins jingling in his pocket and began to
go with the corner gang. He changed. The girl he
took to the picture shows was dressed in high heel
shoes, and she wore shining sequins in her yellow
hair. She worked at the factory, too.

Then the Lights Went On

Each night Joe’s girl looked up the hill and saw
the school house. It was closed and dark. It looked
like a ghost building on the
hill, so she drew the curtain
down and tried to forget those
days when Joe had carried
her books home. But one
night, when she looked up on
the hill the school was bright

FEBRUARY 1944

"School days. school days

Dear old golden rule days

Reading and writing and 'rithmetic
Taught to the tune of a hickory stick
You were my queen in calico

I was your bashful. barefoot beau

You wrote on my slate 'I love you. Joe'
When we were a couple of kids."

In its school center program the Com-
munity Recreation Association of Rich-
mond. Virginia. keeps in mind the fact
that the modern conception of the use
of the school is far broader than that
envisioned by our fathers and mothers
when they sang of "School Days."

with light. Ellen and Jane were
walking up to its doors with
arms entwined and their best
hair ribbons on, and Mrs. \Veath-
erwax from up the street was
going in with a knitting bag on
her arm and the kids from the
corner were standing by the
basement steps. So Joe's girl didn’t pull down the
shade. She wanted the lights from the school to
shine in her window. They made her feel warm
and wanted. The whole neighborhood reflected
their friendliness, and Joe’s girl pinned a ribbon in
her hair and went up the hill to the schoolhouse.

She had never heard the halls sound so gay and
so busy. The saws from the shop downstairs
buzzed busily, the whirr 0f the sewing machines
sang out an invitation, the fall of the ten-pins and
the boom of the bowling ball was a part of the
sounds, and music and dancing feet and gay young
voices carried the major theme. Symphony of the
community center, symphony of work and play,
symphony of youth and age—music of an Ameri-
can neighborhood.

Joe’s girl went into the school room where she
and Joe had been together, but the blackboards
were gay with color, the walls were a pale rose,
blue and green flowers climbed the curtains at the
windows, and the lights were soft and the music
gay. Joe’s girl knew she wouldn’t ever be lone-
some again while the lights were on in the school-
house.

And, after a while, the lights shone further until
they reached even to Joe where he stood in the
dark and he, too, followed them to the school and
found that they led back to his girl.

And since most school center stories have happy
endings we are pleased to report that Joe’s in the
Navy where he is continuing his work in electrical
repair that he began at the center, and Mrs.
VVeatherwax, whom you will remember, as the
little old lady who liked to knit, is meeting Joe’s
girl at the schoolhouse each
night and teaching her to knit
her firstbaby sweater so that
it will be ready for Joe’s ad-
miring eyes when he gets
back home.

A story like that of Joe and

625

626 FUN IN THE SCHOOL CENTER

his girl is not an unusual one in the record of
Richmond’s community centers. Multiply it by a
thousand Joes and a thousand Richmond girls and
it will give a picture of the service rendered by the
community centers in the city. At the present time
there are twenty night school centers operated in
Richmond for both white and colored patrons.
Sixteen of them are conducted under the direction
of the Bureau of Parks and Recreation with money
appropriated by the City Council, and four under
the direction of the Community Recreation Asso-
ciation with funds appropriated by the Richmond
War and Community Fund. All centers are located
in school buildings which are given, with heat and
light, by the Richmond School Board.

Richmond’s Community Center program is the
result of the farseeing vision of the Community
Recreation Association which first demonstrated
the sound theory of using the school house in the
afternoons and evenings to meet neighborhood
recreational interests.

Twenty Years Ago

As far back as 1924, Highland Park School was
opened under the sponsorship of the Highland
Park Citizens Association cooperating with the
Community Recreation Association, for active
games, community drama and neighborhood club
meetings. A community orchestra and community
chorus was deveIOped and the project aroused such
favorable interest that the city appropriated funds
to Open other schools for game programs.

During the years of depression, the Federal
Emergency Relief Agency placed a number of
workers under the direction of the Community
Recreation Association for training and placement
in the center program. Under the direction of the
Association the program was operated in addi—
tional schools opened by the School Board, and
Spread even to schools in Henrico and Chesterfield
counties. As the value of the school center pro-
gram became apparent, federal funds were matched
by city funds and a part of Richmond’s community
center work was gradually assumed by the Bureau
of Parks and Recreation.

In 1937, as a result of a study of social condi-
tions made by the Council of Social Agencies (now
the Richmond Community Council), two Negro
and two white schools were opened in the Bellevue
and Fulton School districts to meet recreational
needs. Leadership for these centers is financed by
funds appr0priated to the Community Recreation
Association by the Community Fund. This center

program is sponsored by the East End Business,
Men’s Association.

Theory Becomes Fact

After pioneering in school center work through
normal years, a time of acute depression and
through the present war, the Community Recrea—
tion Association has crystalized recreational theory
into indisputable fact. Emerging from its work
with the young people of Richmond who use the
centers for meeting places, for social dancing, for
games, and for group singing, and with the adults
who are interested in cooking and sewing groups,
forums and lectures, furniture repair and crafts,
the Community Recreation Association advocates
the use of the school for community recreation pro-
grams for a number of reasons. It is easily acces-
sible to residential districts; it is an acceptable lo-
cation to the community; its shops, gymnasium,
kitchens, and auditoriums lend themselves to a
variety of programs, and its facilities are flexible
and can be made to meet changing needs and
interests.

An example of this adaptability on the part of
the school was found this winter at Fulton School
where, under the direction of the Community Rec-
reation Association and the supervision of the day
principal, Mrs. Florence Lohmann, the school is
being used to its fullest extent. The basement is
open for active games, the shop is for woodwork,
and the sewing room is always busy. One of the
large classrooms has been redecorated with pale
rose paint and flowered draperies, and lamps and
a juke box complete an atmosphere attractive to
the “teen-agers” for a club and dancing room.
Another room, decorated in Williamsburg green
and equipped with comfortable furniture is spon-
sored by the Parent-Teachers Association as a
club room for the older people.

The Richmond School Board has consistently
held to its policy of furnishing the schools with
heat and light for community centers. Its belief in
the utilization of the school plant for a broad com-
munity program has been confirmed during the
past year with the publishing of the Manahan sur-
vey of Richmond’s school program and the Bar-
tholomew report on school facilities. Both reports
advocate that the school building and grounds be
used in the afternoon and evenings for recreation
programs in order that citizens get the greatest use
from the public funds invested in school plants.

With the inauguration of the first Community

(Continued on page 640)

RECREATION

 

WORLD AT PLAY

The Municipal Stadium
in Sao Paulo

THE Municipal Stadium in
Sao Paulo, Brazil, com-
pleted in 1940, is one of
the finest in South America,
according to the October
1943 issue of The Ameri—
can C ity. The huge grand-
stands accommodating
80,000 are reinforced con-
crete in the shape of a
horseshoe. Above the east
and west sides of the sta-
dium are six towers with
special lighting equipment
for night games.

The topography was of considerable aid to the
engineers. The sides of the stadium rest on nat-
ural slopes. The north end was built on concrete
foundations and has four floors containing dress-
ing rooms, oHices, rooms for doctors and masseurs,
a large restaurant and kitchen, apartments for visit-
ing athletes, a small gymnasium and the fencing
room.

The central field designed for football is sur-
rounded by an eight-lane 400-meter track. At the
open end of the stadium is a reception building
adapted for open-air concerts and similar perform—
ances. Behind the building is a gymnasium with a
grandstand inside to accommodate 3,500 people.
Adjoining the gymnasium is a huge outdoor swim-
ming pool with a grandstand for 4,500. There are
both outdoor and indoor tennis courts.

_ The accompanying illustration shows the swim-
ming p001 and the gymnasium in the foreground.

AMERICAN prisoners
in Italy, according to
the United Press, were
so sports starved that
they unraveled their woolen sweaters, rolled the
yarn into balls, covered them with the leather
from their flying jackets and produced baseballs
for games with the British prisoners, who thought
up the idea,of making bats by ,whittling down old
bed posts. The British, after having been taught
to play by the Americans, proceeded to beat them

They Improvise
Baseball

FEBRUARY 1944

 

Courtesy The American City Magazine

two games out of three in the World Series, which
was held.

Some of the prisoners, according to Lieutenant
Ernie Case who made the report on activities, or—
ganized study groups in mathematics, engineering
and philosophy with English prisoners as pro-
fessors.

ON SATURDAY, Decem~
ber 11th, the New
York City Center of
Music and Drama was
opened with a dedicatory address by Mayor La
Guardia and a concert by the New York Philhar-
monic-Symphony Orchestra. The idea of the Cen-
ter was conceived by Mayor LaGuardia to provide
cultural entertainment at popular prices. Repre-
sentatives of labor unions as well as of the arts are
on its board of directors. Throughout the winter
a program of concerts, opera, ballet, recitals and
plays will be given. The Center is located at the
former ‘Mecca Temple.

A Center of Music
and Drama

THE following extract
from the 1942-1943
Annual Report to the
City Manager of San
Diego from the Department of Physical Education
and Public Recreation testifies to the popularity
of arts and crafts in that city.

“Handcraft, ‘making something useful or orna-

Arts and Crafts in
San Diego

627 .

628 WORLD A T PLA Y

i W #12 the

! ARMY
- NAVY
MARINES

I DIAMOND
‘ PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every lighting
front; in every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought ,
to a successful conclusion.

HORSESHOE CO.

46|0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

mental from waste material,’ has become a recrea—
tion slogan in this department of our program.
Each play center instructs children in this inter-
esting activity under able supervision of the Super-
visor of Handcraft. During the past five years the
largest craft exhibit on the Pacific Coast was held
in Balboa Park. More than 30,000 visitors at—
tended a four-day program.”

Chicago’s Christmas Carol Program—"The
Office of Civilian Defense, Chicago Metropolitan
Area, and the Chicago Park District c00perated in
a plan for Christmas caroling designed to bring
happiness to the families of servicemen. The plan
involved writing the men in service to learn their
favorite Christmas carols which would then be
sung by a carol group in the community at the
homes after the families have been notified that it
was being done at the request of the servicemen.

National Folk Festival—The eleventh an-
nual National Folk Festival will be held at the
Academy of Music in Philadelphia, May IO to I3,
under the sponsorship of the Philadelphia Evening
Bulletin Folk Festival Association.

“We know,” writes Sarah Gertrude Knott, na-
tional director of the Festival, “that participants
and sponsors throughout the country who have

-made previous Festivals possible in happier, easier

years will accept with us the challenge of a war—
time National Folk Festival in perhaps the only
nation left today where such an event is possible."
Miss Knott requests that any groups interested
in participating in the Festival communicate with
her as soon as possible at the headquarters of the
Association, 621 Bulletin Building, Filbert and
Juniper Streets, Philadelphia 7, Pennsylvania.

Do You Need Choral Material?——The Asso-
ciation of American Choruses has been recently
organized to make available to local choral groups,
on a loan basis, copies of a number of selected
choral works for mixed chorus, women’s chorus
and men’s chorus. The Association has had made
available to it considerable numbers of choral
works previously made available to college choruses
by the Association of American Colleges. It now
has voice parts to 150 choral works. The material
is made available to any group which takes out a
membership in the Association.

The cost of securing the material, in addition to
the annual dues, is only the cost of postage and
expressage of music actually borrowed, plus two to
live cents per copy (depending on the size of the
work) to cover ordinary wear and tear. Those in-
terested in joining the Association should write
to the Association of American Choruses, Drinker
Library of Choral Music, Princeton, New Jersey.

Neighborhood Recreation Centers in Mobile
—No. I Neighborhood Recreation Center in M0—
bile, Alabama, opened last November and citizens
were invited by the City Recreation Department,
of which Robert E. Nebrig is Superintendent, to
be present at the official opening to show their in-
terest in adequate centers for young people and
citizens of Mobile. It is planned to open other
centers throughout the city.

An Institute on Recreation Pageantry—-——In
response to a number of calls from Richmond
churches, the Community Recreation Association
of Richmond, Virginia, on December 7th, spon—
sored a one night institute on Christmas Pageantry
attended, by representatives of the city’s churches.
The Institute was conducted in cooperation with
the University Players of the University of Rich—
mond and the Theatre Associates of the Richmond
Professional Institute.

RECREATION

  
   
    

is”.

 . . Voit Synthetic-Rubber-Covered
“Post War” Basketballs, Footballs, Soccer Balls,
Volley Balls, Water Rolo Balls, and Soft Balls
are available to yogi These super balls play
better, last longerarlesist wear on rough play-
ing surfaces, stayii’intlated longer. Since the
armed forces have first call on our output-
and we knoyvfyou wouldn’t have it otherwise
-your  has only a limited quantity. But
_V\§,4Wgwl_;gésa€s§ured that orders will be. apportioned

l fairly among our customers. To enioy a mir-
acle of the'future in the present, contact your
dealer early—now—and specify VOIT.

Write for Illustrated Price List

./, av
a ,1»). M A,

    
 

ss’rurns‘rr '3  "

' " 0
Ni -.

a

" BUY WAR BONDS REGULARLY

o
9

.0 y SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED
‘ ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

Mfgcl. by W. J. Voit Rubber Corp.,1600 E. 25th St, Los Angeles 11, Calif.
Chicago Branch-180 No. Wacker Drive

 

FEBRUARY L944 629

630 “FINDING WISDOM”

AERIAL TENNIS

Excellent for _  
schools, play- '  
grounds and
military train-
ing camps.
Played indoors
or out. Singles
court 20’x50'.
Doubles court
26'x50'.

A game of skill.
NOT A TOY.
Economical be-
cause broken
feathers can be
replaced with
refills, pro-
longing life of
birdie.

Birdies have solid. live-rubber base with small nipple at tip:
each equipped with six selected white leathers. Paddles are oi

%" plywood. with built up handles and leather tips. All equip-
ment minutely fashioned. Sent on approval.

Manufactured by

SELLS AERIAL TENNIS COMPANY

4838 BELINDER ROAD KANSAS CITY, KANSAS

  

 

The demonstration dealt with the production of
the Christmas story as a play, a pantomime or a
pageant. Each one attending the Institute was
given a bibliography of Christmas plays and pag-
eants and printed suggestions for homemade light-
ing equipment and make-up.

Cooking as Recreatioanhere is only one
woman allowed in the Thursday evening cooking
class at the Roosevelt Recreation Center in Balti-
more. She is the teacher. Ten boys between the
ages of ten and sixteen have turned the class into
a bachelor’s club. They requested privacy, and
the Department of Public Recreation was glad to
oblige. Every Thursday night the boys come to
the center, bolt the door to make sure that the rule
of “no women allowed” is enforced, and then the
fun begins. At the first class the boys learned to
make cookies. From that point they progressed to
chocolate cake, and now they have announced they
want to cook a complete meal. At the end of the
evening they eat everything they have made. The
boys bring money to cover the cost of the food
they cook, and so popular has the club bmome that

the names of iifteen boys are to be found on the
waiting list.

More Money for Akron’s Recreation Program
—The City Council approved an additional appro-
priation of $4,000 for the fall and winter program
conducted by the Recreation Department of Akron,
Ohio. This makes a total of $70,863.16 appropri-
ated in 1943 as against $41,818.79 spent in 1942.

Canada’s Largest Victory Garden—Reported
to be the largest project of its kind in Canada,
four acres of land adjoining the RCAF Technical
Training School at St. Thomas, Ontario, were
converted this year into garden plots and culti-
vated by personnel of the school. Each squadron

uFinding Wisdom"

NDER THE TITLE, Finding Wisdom—Chroni-

cles of a School of Today, Miss Gertrude
Hartman has written an extremely interesting
story of the Avery Coonley School at Downers
Grove, Illinois. The book is one of those rare
volumes which tells in exact and vivid detail what
children do at various age levels.‘ In a digest of
the book, Dr. Philip L. seman, Chairman of the
Chicago Recreation Commission, says:

“Deeply influenced by John Dewey, the found-
ers of this school sought a location where children
would be living wholesome, normal lives in typical
American homes, and where community activities
were on a scale within the comprehension of young
children. Those who are concerned with the school
believe that out of the kind of education described
in Finding Wisdom will emerge more socially en-
lightened and more creative individuals than the
education of our generation has yet produced.
Throughout their work they endeavor to develop
the potentialities of each child, to establish a unity
and a harmony of personality, to cultivate a sen-
sitivity toward the good of the larger whole of
which the child is an integral part.

“Chapters are devoted to ‘Learning About Their
World,’ ‘The Natural Order,’ ‘Primitive Life,’
‘Man’s Advancing Civilization,’ ‘Our Interdepend—
ent World,’ ‘Discovering America,’ ‘Science and
Shop,’ ‘Literature and Music,’ ‘Creative Expres-
sion and the Arts,’ ‘The School Day,’ ‘The Home
and the School,’ ‘A Way of Life.’ ”

and department had its own section of the garden
area, and the gardens were worked in the evening
when the .men were through with their training.
St. Thomas growers and merchants donated plants
to the project.

Fun in the Service—The American Home, 444
Madison Avenue, New York 22, has issued a bul-
letin prepared by Marguerite Ickis entitled Fun in
the Service. The bulletin contains directions for a
number of gifts for men and girls in the service,
among them the following: a bag of puzzles, a
pocket album, and two games. Copies may be
secured from The American Home at 15 cents each.

Drama Tournament in Somerville -—- In

March ‘the Federated Boys’ Clubs of Somer-
ville, Mass, sponsored by the Recreation Com-
mission, conducted their annual junior and
senior drama tournaments. Four plays were

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY

A BASKETBALL CAN’T BLOW UP A B

..

but it is Materiel of War  
nevertheless  I

   
 
   
  
 
 

It's WILSON
Today in Sports
Equipment

 

—— _. _.___— -

presented by different clubs in the junior
division, and three in the senior.

Other activities of the clubs include athletics,
social recreation, sports rallies, publication of
monthly magazines, minstrel shows; handcraft,
hikes, outings, photography and model aircraft.

A Fishing and Recreation Map—The Sacra-
mento, California, Chamber of Commerce has
made available to the public a map showing the
recreational facilities in Sacramento and along
the Sacramento and American Rivers for a
radius of twenty—five miles. The map shows the
boat landings, beaches, parks, and picnic places
along the two rivers and also where the best
fishing is to be found. (The latter information
was checked with representatives of the State
Fishing Game Division.) Playgrounds, parks,
picnic grounds, and recreation areas of all kinds
in the city are also shown on the map.

The other side shows pictures of some of the
points of interest in the city and lists the name
and location of others.

Free Men, the Drama of Democracy—“Free
M en”is a musical dramatic presentation adapted

FEBRUARY 1944

:Many a devastating bomb has
been dropped into Naziland;
- Many a grenade has been , _ . : 
speeded to its target—by arms 7' . '.-‘ .:'.3;§:.' 43:2 .
that learned their skill and f: ' -° ’-" ‘ i   5' r " ‘o --
accuracy while handling a has- 
ketball. For this great winter- j
time American sport is one of 
the best sources of the agilities, ski]ls, '~
coordination and endurance that make
¢. our fighting men champions at war A

as they are at play. While engaged
as far as our facilities permit in the
production of lighting equipment, the
Wilson name is still being stamped
on basketballs and other basketball
equipment of the finest quality. Wilson
Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New
York and other leading cities.

0 ' t
TUNE IN -
\ ARCH WARD'S WEEKLY W
SPORTS PREVIEW ,

BASKETBALL EQUIPMENT

631

RGE 0°

~9e

.. .- ,. ‘I
V " .
“bl—'4'. ' 59‘...

-_
‘4.

 
  
     

Every Wednesday night
10:15 P.M.—E.W.T.
Over Mutual

Sponsored by Wilson

.— ‘.- _.

 

from “The Education of Free Men in Ameri—
can Democracy,” a publication of the Educa-
tional Policies Commission. The first produc-
tion of “Free Men” was given by the public
schools of Milwaukee on the occasion of the
biennial convention of the Music Educators
National Conference held in that city in April
1942. The pageant portrays the lessons which
free men must learn in order to protect their
freedom against aggression without and decay
within. Part I has six episodes; Part II, five.
The cast may be as large or as! small as de-
sired and there are roles for elementary chil-
dren, high school children, and adults.

Single copies-of this pageant, for which the
National Education Association holds motion
picture, radio and recording rights, may be
secured free of charge from the Educational
Policies Commission, 1211 16th Street, N.W.,
Washington, D. C. Additional copies are avail-
able at IO cents each.

He Sang Folk Songs l—One of the epics of
the war is the story of Poon Lim, 25 year old
Chinese steward of an English merchantman
and sole survivor of the crew after the torpedo-

632 AT CHICAGO’S RECREATION CONFERENCE

At Chicago's Recreation
Conference

"IT wAs ONE of the most successful—if not the
most successful conference that we have had in
nine years,” writes Dr. Philip Seman, Chairman
of the Chicago Recreation Commission of the Con-
ference held November 12, 1943. “Recreation
Tackles Its Wartime Problems” was the theme of
the Conference which opened at 9 :45 _A. M. witha
general session followed by a luncheon meeting, at
noon and late in the afternoon with a concluding
general session. There were group meetings dur-
ing the afternoon, and throughout the day special
meetings such as the P.T.A. Institute, a session on
arts and crafts, 2} youth session with a dinner and

a general meeting conducted by the youth dele-
gates themselves.

At the beginning and conclusion of the luncheon
meeting a number of _Veterans’ organizations par-
ticipated in ceremonies in honor of the flag. Over
1,400 people attended the luncheon and hundreds
were turned away. Throughout the day more than

4,000 peoplehattended the sessions and visited the
exhibits.

Plans are already under way for the Tenth An-

nual Conference and conference chairmen and
committees have been appointed.

 

 

ing of the boat. Poon Lim spent 132 days adrift
on a life raft in the South Atlantic, the longest
voyage in number of days ever recorded for a
survivor of a torpedoed vessel. Asked how he
passed away the time, he said he sang folk
songs! He added he could tell the time of the

night and the day of the month by watching
the moon.

They Made the Stage Too l—The Palo Alto,
California, Community Players, associated with
the city’s Recreation Department, provided not
only the plays but the stage when it was dis—
covered that near-by Page Mill Camp had no
facilities for putting on the productions this
group wanted to give. Money was raised locally
to purchase material, and the actors spent a
week end building and equipping the stage in
one of the unused post buildings. The stage
now serves the camp for activities other than
drama.

uFag Bags" for Safety

GIRL SCOUTS have been turning out little red
“fag bags” in large quantities ever since this
nation-wide, year-round Scout project was launched
early last year. Each fag bag has a drawstring that
makes the smoker pause and think before pulling
out his cigarettes and matches. It also serves as a .
timely reminder of the danger of forest fires, by
displaying a sticker picture of a saboteur striking
a match in the forest.

The most famous fag bag, belonging to Presi-
dent Roosevelt, was made of China silk with the.
initials F. D. R. embroidered on it in gold.

The national fag bag project all grew out of the
work of Girl Scout groups on the Pacific Coast
who had been cooperating with the United States
Forest Service by making small red muslin sacks
which were given to smokers entering the national
forests.

The Scouts produced 100,000 fag bags for the
Pacific Northwest at the special request of the
“Keep Oregon Green” and the “Keep Washington
Green” Associations. Once the nation-wide pro ject
was under way Girl Scouts in Milwaukee, Balti-
more, Rochester, Denver, and Elizabeth, New Jer-
sey, began collecting flour‘ and salt bags, dyeing the
material red, making it into fag bags, and pasting
on the stickers.

A flour or salt bag holding two pounds will make
two fag bags; a live-pound bag will make four, a
ten—pounder, six; and a twenty-four pound flour
sack willlpriovide material for twelve fag bags.

Many Girl Scout groups have been holding fag
bag parties for mothers, sisters, aunts, and friends
who wish to contribute to the project. At these
parties flour, sugar, and salt sacks that have been
collected are sorted as to size, ripped open, cut to
fit the simple fag bag pattern, sewed cup, dyed,
pressed, and equipped with sticker and drawstring.

Music for Dancing Parties for the Duration
——A problem which confronts many organizations,
especially in small schools, is that of providing
music for parties. Two pupils of the University of
\Vyoming High School surmounted this difficulty,
according to Floyd W. Hoover, principal of the
University High School at Laramie, by building a
“juke box” largely of salvaged parts of old radios
and phonographs. He tells of this in an article in
the February 1943 issue of School Activities en-
titled “Music for Dancing Parties for the Duration.”

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 633

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZI N ES

Beach and Pool, November 1943
Are You Planning a Sand Beach?
The Camping Magazine, December 1943
Day Camping Is Fun, by Margaret Mudgett
Physical Plant Problems in Camping, by Ray E.
Bassett ‘
They Worked Right Smart, by Catherine T. Hammett
The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
December 1943
A Wartime Swimming Program for High Schools,
by W. Kenneth Vansant
Planrlpng an Indoor Obstacle Course, by Thomas W.
Ec
Probation, December 1943 ,
It Is Certainly Something, by Mary Edna McChristie
Sports Age, December 1943
Today—It’s Industry
Audrey J. Smith

that Carries the Ball, by

PAM PH LETS

A Plan for the Development of Recreation Facilities in
' Clairton _
Presented by the City of Clairton Recreation Com-
mission, Clairton, Pennsylvania
Annual Report, Sherwood Forest Camp, 1943
Park and Playground Association, 613 Locust Street,
St. Louis, Missouri
How to Make a Container for Baling Scrap Paper
Blueprint plans for a project of interest to youth
groups, manual training classes, schools, etc.
Copies maybe obtained free of charge from A.Z.A.
Supply Department, 1003 K Street, N. W., Wash-
ington 1, D. C.
How to Respect and Display Our Flag
Available from the United States Marine Corps,
Publicity Bureau, 1100 South Broad Street, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania
Organization and Leadership of Group Discussions and
Forums, by Le Roy E. Bowman
Buéletilp No. 1258, University of the State of New
or a
Organizing a Community for the Treatment and Preven-
tion of Juvenile Delinquency in Wartime
Progress Report No. 1 of a joint project sponsored
by the Bureau of Public Assistance of the Social
Security Board and the Children’s Bureau of the
United States Department of Labor. July 1943
The Marines’ Hymn
' Printed for complimentary distribution by the United
States Marine Corps Publicity Bureau, 1100 South
Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
The Master Plan on San Francisco; Shoreline Develop-
ment
Preliminary report of the San Francisco City Plan-
ning Commission, San Francisco, California
The Teacher of English and the War Savings Program
A Schools at War Bulletin. Prepared by the Na-
tional Council of Teachers of English for the
Education Section, War Finance Division, United
States Treasury Department, Washington, D. C.
War Savings Programs for Schools at War
A handbook of dramatic material. Education Sec—
tion, War Finance Division, United States Treas-
ury Department, Washington, D. C.
Youth Also Plan
A guide for the study of postwar problems. Issued
.by- the Canadian Youth Commission, 3 Willcocks
Street, Toronto 5, Ontario. Price 15 cents

FEBRUARY 1944

   

IIAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALI.

.' BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT . . .

dode by upon-n, and. by experienced workman full
quality materials and sold direct to schools, can, on.
Independent, Only wholesale.

7 NATIONAL SPORTS commas“ COMPANY
3.. “AIQUIYEI - VOID DU LAC. WIS.

Send/or Il/ew (dialog

A New Playground for Charleston—The
Lions Club of Charleston, W'est Virginia, has pro-
vided a playground in a section where the worst
slum area of the city had existed. The ground was
procured, shacks demolished, and playground
equipment erected by the Club. It is now being
rapidly made into a beauty spot of over a city
block extending along one of Charleston’s beauti-
ful rivers. Two playground directors are in charge,
and there is equipment for all ages, from small
children to adults. The playground will be a
permanent project of the Charleston Lions Club.

 

 
 
 
 
 

Michigan Gets Recreation Area—Under an
Act providing for the disposition of the National

Park Service’s recreational demonstration areas a
S

lease was granted to the State of Michigan for a
portion of the Waterloo Recreation Demonstration
Area, part of which is maintained as a hunting
ground and part as a sanctuary primarily for pro-
tection of the sandhill crane. Transfers of ap-
proximately half of the thirty areas available for
disposition are now being completed. These trans-
fers are dependent upon indication in each case
that the prospective receiving agency is ready to

accept it and has shown itself capable of doing a
satisfactory job.

New Park for Lafayette, Louisiana—Lafay-
ette has acquired a large parcel of land which is
being developed into a park. Last spring over live
hundred dogwood and redbud trees were planted.
Picnic _sites have been built with small outdoor

hreplaces and benches, and a cabin has also been
built to take care of social activities.

National Music Week Comes of Age
(Continued from page 592)

extensive observance. As interest grows, and

Music Week becomes established as an event to

which people~ look forward each year, more elabor-

ate programs may be introduced and a fuller
schedule undertaken without fear of overlapping.

634

ARTS and CRAFTS

for the

i Recreation Lender

By FRANK A. STAPLES

HERE is the arts and crafts book you’ve

been asking for—an illustrated guide to
beginners as well as experienced leaders of

arts and crafts groups.

Wherever you are working—in municipal
recreation departments and in schools, in set-
tlements, clubs, churches, nursery schools or
other private and public agencies———this volume
will give you what you want . . .

. . . Information about the kinds of arts
and crafts best suited to different age levels

. . . A few suggestions about underlying
philosophy, leadership, and design

. . . A profusely illustrated project outline
including:

Spatter Printing
Potato Block Printing
Felt Printing

Seat Rushing
Bookbinding Broomstick Weaving
Candlemaking Card Weaving
Sewing Bead Weaving

Tie Dyeing Netting

Marble Printing Posters

Fruit Banks Kites
Masks Lie Detector

And many others

Finger Painting
Clay Modeling

Sawdust Modeling
Bookmaking

This book contains much of the material
presented by Frank Staples at the institutes he
conducts as Director of Arts and Crafts of the
National Recreation Association. Some of the
projects described have appeared in material
sent out in the Association’s Bulletin Service.

Arts and Crafts for the Recreation Leader
will be of invaluable aid in planning your
program—~order your copy today!

Price S I .50

National Recreation Association
3l5 Fourth Avenue. New York IO. N. Y.

 

NATIONAL MUSIC WEEK COMES OF AGE

Things to Keep in Mind

The cooperative idea should always be kept in
mind, even though it may not be‘feasible to work
it out at the beginning. It is better to encourage
small-scale programs by several groups working
independently than to try to organize a large-scale
program representing a number of organizations
before conditions are right for such an event. It is
important that all programs connected with the
observance be announced as arranged for Music
Week, so that they may derive the benefit of the
association and also that the observance may be-
come better rooted in the community. When the"
observance has become a custom, it is far easier to
arrange cooperative individual programs or pro-
grams contributing to a cooperative community
observance.

A proclamation should be obtained from the
mayor (he is usually glad to issue one when re-
quested) and editorial comment recommended to
the press. These marks of recognition add to the
prestige of the local committee’s work, if the ob—
servance is on an organized basis, and do much to
stimulate interest and participation if it is of the
“scattered” type, with groups and individuals tak-
ing part without regard to a centralized schedule.

Since Pearl Harbor Music Week has been used
as a setting for a wide variety of patriotic pro-
grams, sometimes with bond rallies as a feature,
and for the starting of campaigns to increase the
use of music in industry, as an aid in therapy,
among adult groups such as Homemakers Clubs,
and for other cultural and community progress
purposes. Material on various aspects of the ob-
servance, and on many special programs, is avail-
able at small cost through the committee. Also
available are copies of President Roosevelt’s strong
letter of endorsement and sample proclamations by
governors and mayors.

The observance has a wealth of possibilities for
all who are concerned with recreation. A time
when the attention of the country is focused to a
larger extent than usual on the enrichment brought
by music to the life of the individual and the social
group is the ideal time to impress upon the public
what recreation is doing with and through music,
and what it needs in musical equipment to do
further good work. It is also an excellent occasion
to demonstrate how recreation is cooperating with
other groups in the community devoted to public
benefit objectives, and how cherished is the place
which music holds in the specific recreation pro-
grams.

RECREATION

YOUR LOCAL RADIO—A SALESMAN FOR RECREATION 635

XtX>m>XtXt

 

%>><FX%X%%>

ACTUAL PHOTO OF TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS IN USE AT GRAND CENTRAL PALACE.
NEW YORK CITY. THE LARGEST INDUCTION CENTER IN THE WORLD!

Two-Way Bowlini; Alleys are now in use all over the United

States and on many war fronts. by the Anny. Navy. Marines.
Merchant Marine. Coast Guard. WACS. U.S.O. Clubs. and "Y's."

Score sheets furnished free. through the courtesy of
Raleigh (Eigerrttw, to all branches at the Allied Services and

U. S. 0. Centers using TWO—WAY BOWLING Alleys.

TWll-WAY BHWLING BORPORAT|0N

Telephone LExington 2-8828 0

e 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

   

Your Local Radio—A Salesman

for Recreation
(Continued from page 619)

liked by the people you want to reach (and you
may wish to reach different groups at different
' times for different reasons) and get your message
across through these pr0grams. Suppose it is a
hillbilly . . . if he can get ’em to listen, he can get
’em told about your recreation program! i

If you go in for regular broadcasts—and these
are much to be prized—there must be consistent,

intelligent planning to maintain the station’s pride '

and local interest in carrying them on its schedule.

If you want spot announcements, write them
yourself if at all possible. Radio stations are af—
fected by manpower shortage, too! Make the an-
nouncements short, “punchy,” and enthusiastic.
Type multiple copies for the station’s use. Try to
work out simple sound effects into them . . . make

FEBRUARY 1944

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
II4 East 32nd Street. New Yorlt

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..

Addrerr ............................................................ ..
City ...................................... .. State ................ ..

 

NEW YORK. N. Y. 0

them sell your program!

And by all means, if your local station does a
good job for and with you, be smart enough to
acknowledge this with letters of appreciation, and
if you should know of definite results obtained
thereby, include a concise report to the manager.
He’s human, too!

Fit to Fight
(Continued from page 618)
a most significant contribution to the nation’s war
effort. Most of the men you are sending us now
from your secondary schools bring with them a
foundation of physical fitness and health knowl-
edge on which we can build. Capt. Ralph Inger-
soll in his book, The Battle 13 the Pay Off, pays

you a striking tribute:

“The Ranger Battalion I marched with at El Guettar
had only one casualty all morning simply because their
legs were so damn good that after marching all night

636 MARDI GRAS A LA GENESEE SETTLEMENT

Know Your Eommunitg

IFOR many years community groups interested

in discovering their local recreational needs
and resources have used a mimeographed survey
outline issued by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation under the title, "Suggesrions for Making
a Community Recreation Survey.”

This material has been expanded, brought up
to date and incorporated in an attractively
printed pamphlet, Know Your Community. Its
sections cover the following subjects: How to
Make and Use a Survey; Survey Outline; Some
Public Park and Recreation Standards; and A

Brief BibliOgraphy.

Send for your c0py of
Know Your Community today

Price 25 cents
0

National Recreation Association
315 FOURTH AVENUE NEW YORK 10. N. Y.

 

they had plenty of reserve strength left for their at—
tack—and because they were physically able to attack
with such agility, skill, and ferocity that they para—
lyzed the enemy. It would not have mattered how
brave they were—if their feet had failed them they
could not have done it. Alone on the mountain top,
they would have been cut to pieces by the first coun-
terattack.”

Mardi Gras a la Genesee Settlement

(Continued from page 614)

tales were just as great a favorite with many, and
several of the boys became interested in Tales of
Robin Hood. In the final analysis, of course, the
boys and girls were allowed to dress as they
pleased. q

The children made their own masks, costumes,
and Hoats, planning them, sketching and painting,
and putting them together. The library became
more popular than ever as the children searched
for costume details in fairy tale and Mother Goose
books. In dramatics, skits were prepared for pre—
sentation at the Mardi gras. The most noteworthy
of these were scenes from Hansel and Gretel and
from Robin Hood. As we had no music specialist
on our staff we did not give as much attention to
music as we would have liked, limiting our musi-

cal activity to the reviewing of familiar songs from
the South. Being short of staff, we were hampered,
too, in the dance direction. Folk dances could un-
doubtedly be used most profitably for a children’s
Mardi gras.

The day of the Mardi gras arrived. The news-
paper sent a photographer to take pictures. Later
we wrote up the events of the day. The story ap—
peared in a full-page spread in the Sunday News
Section the following week.

The king and queen arrived first, just before the
beginning of the parade, which was scheduled for
10:30 A. M. The king could have belonged to any
era in any country, but the queen was definitely
of the French court! Their pages, twin boys who
had attended camp, looked suspiciously like the
Dutch twins, but they waited on the royal couple
in the most courtly manner. At 11 :00 o’clock all
were ready to start. Led by the king and queen
and pages, we paraded through several city blocks,
through the neighborhood playground, and then
back to the settlement. One of the children’s par-
ents came and took movies. In the colorful parade
appeared a Snow White and her Seven Dwarfs, a .
Miss Muffet, a Little Jack Horner, several clowns,
a drum majorette, a totem pole, the old witch with
Hansel and Gretel. The latter pulled a iioat of the
gingerbread house. All the floats were simple, and
most of them represented parts of the stories their
creators were enacting.

After the parade the group gathered in the as-
sembly hall where movies were shown and skits
presented. As the finale to the program the king
and queen awarded prizes to victorious campers.

The staff felt that it had only scratched the sur-
face of the possibilities in a Mardi gras program
for children. We want to repeat the attempt but
with a wider scope, including adults, in an effort
to make it more like the real thing with, perhaps,
dancing in the street in the Spring. We are doubt-
ful as to the exact amount of knowledge gained by
the children about New Orleans and the real Mardi
gras, but we are thoroughly convinced of the fact

that, with their own Mardi gras, the children had

a good time.

A Theatre for Children

(Continued from page 623)
was made for free tickets for those who needed

them.

Since there were about 2,700 elementary school
children in the city and the Little Theatre held
only about 300, several performances of each show
were necessary. Later the county schools asked to

' "RECREATION

A THEATRE FOR CHILDREN 637

be included, and audiences were increased to some
3,000. It Was to meet this need that as many as
three performances were given in a single day.

The entire community became interested.__ Art
teachers conducted poster contests in the schools
for each play. Merchants displayed prize-winning
posters in their store windows. The police and
firemen furnished supervision at therperformances.
Everyone helped find or make necessary proper-
ties. When “Jack and the Beanstalk” was lan-
guishing for lack of a rope ladder, it was the fire—
men who came to the rescue by offering to make
one.

The directors were drawn largely from the Lit-
tle Theatre group. Little Theatre technicians
trained League members to make sets and do the
backstage jobs. The League produced a skilled
costumer whose contribution to the success of the
program can scarcely be overestimated. The Chil-
dren’s Theatre used available Little Theatre equip-
ment and bought what was needed in addition.
Their acquisitions were then put at the disposal of
the Little Theatre.

Ticket sales paid about half the cost of the
shows. The remainder came from the treasury of
the League. Two boards directed the project. One,
an advisory group, was made up of representatives
of the Little Theatre, the P.T.A., the teachers, art
supervisors, and the League. This board made
decisions on dates and play selection as well as
advising on many matters presented by the tech-
nical board. This second group, made up of the
president of the League, production manager,
publicity manager, and others, did the actual work
of putting on the shows.

Finally, equipment had been collected and tech—
niques mastered so that the performances on one
central spot were going smoothly. Then the League
began to put its mind on possibilities of “troop-
'ing.” Taking the shows to the schools would solve
the increasing problems of transportation and
would also make it possible to include the colored
schools in the program. A marionette show was
taken to an auditorium in one of the colored
schools, and children from the other schools were
brought in. Their enthusiasm, if possible, exceeded
that of the white children. But whereas trooping
solved some problems it created others, such as
equipping school stages, transportation of scenery
and costumes, increased demands on the time of.
the production groups. So great was the interest,
however, that the League continued wrestling with
the problems.

FEBRUARY 1944

 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Fo: Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

v ' '  .    ..  as. ’
 5g; .

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY SIS, ClNCINNATl, OHIO

 

Then came the war. Busses were no longer able
to supply the special service. Gasoline was not
available for private automobiles. Both bringing
children in to the Little Theatre and trooping had
to be given up for the duration.

But the Children’s Theatre did not stop in
Lynchburg. There was still the radio. Last year
the League put on a series of thirteen radio plays
for their youthful audience. Plans for a similar
program for this year are under way. This is not
a substitute for seeing tiesh-and-blood actors but
it is one Way of keeping interest and providing
some entertainment that has the interests and
tastes of children as its primary purpose. Indica—
tions are that the enthusiasm and loyalty of the
children have carried over to the new type of per—
formance. The actors, however, admit to missing
the inspiration that came with the roar of enthusi—
asm always accompanying the rising of the curtain.

When the war ends it is expected that the shows
will go on. And perhaps some of the knotty prob—
lems of trooping will have been solved.

 

Reprinted from the Virginia Drama New: published by the Exten-
sron Division of the University of Virginia.

Editorial Note: Miss Virginia Lee Comer, Association
of Junior Leagues of America, points out that in spite of
wartime difficulties, the majority of Children’s Theatres
maintained by Junior League groups continue to function. ,

l

638 ART WITH A LITTLE a

 

YOUR VICTORY GARDEN...

You’re planning for a Victory Garden, of course.
And perhaps y0u’re new at the gardening game
and need some help in your planning.

Here are a few practical aids available through
the National Recreation Association:

Your Victory Garden.
by E. L. D. Seymour . . . . . $.15

(A guide for the amateur gardener)

A Few Sources of Iniormation on
Gardening ........Free

When you have harvested your crop be sure
you have these pamphlets on hand:

Victory Gardens—Harvesting and
Drying. by Marguerite Ickis . . .25

Canning. Drying and Freezing for
Victory. by Meta Given . . . . .15

*

NATIONAL RECREATION
A S S O C l A T l O N

3l5 Fourth Avenue. New York l0. N.Y.

 

Art with a Little a

(Continued from page 607)

to Beatrice, Vittoria Colonna, Mathilde Wesen-
donck would have been allowed.

“There is no woman in this case” the court
would have reminded me. “Stick to the facts—not
what you’ve thought or dreamed or felt but what
you know: Why, Mr. Kent, and how did you
became an artist?”

And I would have answered .as, constrained by
the majesty of this periodical and its jury of read-
ers, I answer now:

“When I was a little boy, I liked to draw pic-
tures. Instead of listening to lectures in school and
taking notes on them I drew pictures. I drew
pictures, naturally, of things that interested me. In
the period of the war with Spain I drew pictures
of battleships. Like most boys, ships were roman-
tic to me. I drew pictures of all kinds of boats.
And as I drew them on the page there developed
an interest in making the page look pretty. So I
would make a border of leaves and Howers and
birds flying around and put stars in the sky. I am
still doing it.

“But I didn’t just like to draw pictures. I liked
to whittle. From using a pocket knife, I got to
using a saw, a plane and chisels. I began to make
things out of wood. I did eventually become a
carpenter; and I might have become an architect
but that I preferred doing other things. An aunt
of mine, who lived with us, was an artist. Oh, I
forgot, I shouldn’t say that: she painted pictures in
water-colors—lovely pictures; and she painted on
china. So of course I painted on china too. I still
paint on china or, rather, I draw pictures that, in
this industrial age, are to be printed or painted on
china by others.

“I have done a lot of other things: wood en-
gravings and lithographs; and I’ve written books.
But not one thing that I have ever done has been
done because I felt that I had any sort of a holy
mission to do them, or that I was inSpired to do
them, or that by doing them I was achieving some
kind of a mystical expression of myself. Always
I have painted or drawn, or designed china, or
built houses because I liked to make things with
my hands. Liking to make them, liking the work
of making them, led me to always try to make
them as well as I possibly could. Fortunately, 'I
made some of these things so well that other peo-

, ple liked them enough to buy them. So, mine has

been a happy lot _of earning a living by making
things that I have liked to make.”

So would have run my sworn testimony. So, I
think, would have run the sworn testimony of
other professionals called as witnesses in -this
momentous case.

I can almost hear the judge summing up to the
jury of public opinion:

“The practice of art,” he might have said, “ap-
pears to be in no essential respect different from
other crafts accepted as useful and even necessary
to the well-being and progress of society; and art-
ists—or,”.. with a smile toward the group of wit-
nesses, “I should say painters, sculptors, drafts-
men, decorators and all the rest of you fellows——
are entitled to the full rights, privileges and respect
of other hard-working citizens, unencumbered by
the reverence or contempt which popular misun-
derstanding, promoted by criticism has engen-
dered. These workmen, given half a chance, will,
we believe, prove worthy of their hire.”

I ask you: What but one verdict could a jury so
instructed come to?

RECREATION

AUDUBON SOCIETY CONVENTION HIGHLIGHTS 639

‘ Audubon Society Convention
Highlights

HE BOY FROM BRQOKLYN was amazed. As a
Tsoldier he was seeing America for the first time,
its beauties and natural resources. From the Grand
Canyon he wrote a letter to the National Audubon
Society and said that he wanted to be a member of
an organization that was helping to preserve and
was teaching people to enjoy the wild life of this
country.

Hundreds of other servicemen and women have
written similar letters. The program of nature or-
ganizations has gained new impetus and strength
through an awakening of interest all over the coun-
try. The Audubon Society reports the largest
membership in its history this year and the biggest
attendance at its annual convention.

In October 1943, the annual convention of the
Audubon Society was held in New York City. An
open house at the new Greenwich, Connecticut,
Nature Center started the program. Subsequent
meetings were held for two days at the Audubon
House on Fifth Avenue amidst a colorful back—
ground of nature paintings and at the Museum of
Natural History.

The Greenwich Center, which formally opened
its gates to the public at the time of the convention,
is a large tract of woodland, containing a house
and other buildings to be used as workshops, mu-
seum and living quarters for the director. It will
be a wild life sanctuary and an out-of—door class-
room. Practically everything but salt water is to
be found in this area. Trails have been marked; an
inventory has been made in order that all changes
and progressions will be known; the area has been
divided according to its characteristics. Everything
is being done to make it an interesting and attrac-
tive laboratory for the student of nature. Courses
are being offered for teachers and specialists, for
young people interested in preparing to be nature
leaders and teachers, and for the public in general.
Groups are always welcome and Sundays are open
days. Dr. Richard L. Weaver, Educational Di-
rector, and his staff, which is made up of people
who have a broad understanding of the relation-
ships in nature and an appreciation of conserva-
tion, are working with schools, clubs and com-
munity groups.

High spots of the convention were a number of
extraordinary color motionpictures of birds, Wild
life, and a brilliant conservation film by John H.

FEBRUARY 1944

HILLERICH 6t BRADSBY CO.
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

 

* SPEED VICTORY—BUY MORE BONDS *

 

 

Storer entitled “The Birth of the Land.” The
theme of the meetings was conservation. Dr. Hugh
Bennett, Chief of the United States Soil Conser-
vation Service, pointed out that fifty million acres
of land in this country had become extinct through
misuse and that a hundred million acres have been
badly damaged. He advocated using the thirty-
three million acres of land that cannot raise food
or be used for pasture, such as the banks of streams
and steep slopes, for wild life conservation. In this
way agriculture and the preservation of nature
could be carried out in conjunction.

The Society wants to spread the word among
the millions of gardeners in America that there
can be no gardens without birds and no brids
without gardens.

New projects to be undertaken are (I) the de-
velopment of a refuge for the trumpeter swan,
birds that came close to extinction early in the
century; (2) provision for caring for the elk in
Wyoming; and (3) conservation of the redwoods
of California. From these and other varied phases
of their program it will be seen that the Society
has expanded its scope of interests and activities
to include animals, plant life and conseryation as
well as birds.

640 SUGGESTIONS FOR YOUTH RECREATION PROGRAMS

The war has made it necessary for the Society
to suspend operation of the Nature Camp in Maine.
During its seven years more than fourteen hun-
dred people camped there, the majority of whom
were nature teachers and specialists.

Recreation leaders and school teachers who are
interested in finding material for their nature pro—
grams, illustrated booklets for the library, and ex—
cellent color motion picture films which can be
rented should write to the National Audubon So-
ciety, 1006 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

Fun in the School Center
(Continued from page 626)

Recreation Association school center, Richmond
led the South in establishing this type of public
recreation.

As the Community Recreation Association con—
tinues its program, its objective is the establish-
ment of a complete community center in every
school district in Richmond. It advocates that they
be placed under auspices which can make the pro-
gram permanent and allow them to be enlarged to
meet new needs.

Some Leadership "Do's"
(Continued from page 599)

thusiasm. It takes a great deal of energy or a good
actor to carry on a whole evening’s program and
still be an enthusiastic leader through the midnight
clean up process.

Telling the world. The evening is not over until
the leader or a dependable publicity committee
chairman has given an interesting, well—written,
account of the event to the local paper.

And after the party. A day or two after the
party the leader and all helpers should meet, prefer—
ably at a party of their own, to discuss the success
and failures of the program. Someone should serve
as secretary, otting down notes which will be use-
ful when the next event is planned. Games which
were enjoyed should be listed. The correct names
and addresses of pe0ple who showed interest, en-
thusiasm, or talent should be secured and recom-
mendations for changes should be itemized in de-
tail. Don’t dwell on the failures but on what can
be done to avoid such situations another time.

All of these notes should be typed in the near
future and put in a folder as a constructive guide
for the next program. The names, addresses and
phone numbers of the committee members together
with the duties they performed should be included.

Suggestions for Youth Recreation
Programs
(Continued from page 605)

soft drink, candy, and sandwich counter
table games table tennis tables
Social activities
parties and dances ‘ square dances and mixed
informal activities and games
dancing beach parties

Special events

fairs and carnivals
scavenger and treasure

holiday celebrations
hobby shows

hunts
Drama activities
plays radio skits
pageants informal stunts
puppetry movies

entertainments, readings, etc.

Mental and linguistic activities

quiz programs debates
forums and discussions
speakers on travel, current problems

Music
community singing orchestras
choruses concerts
Hobby groups
photography model aircraft

radio natural history groups
crafts—bookbinding, block printing, leatherwork,
carving, painting, etc.

Outing activities

picnics natural history field trips

bicycling sailing

hiking fishing

boating

Sports and outdoor games

mixed groups boys
roller skating baseball
badminton softball
volley ball basketball
tennis soccer and
paddle tennis other sports
croquet girls
shufHeboard softball
swimming basketball
golf field hockey and
bowling other sports

Service Activities in the Youth Program

A service program of some kind has a definite
place in the youth activity plans. Probably the
most suitable means of planning and carrying out
a service program is through the medium of a
service committee, which should be one of the most
active working groups in the youth council. Ser-
vices that can be performed by young people are

RECREATION

SURE, that Saturday night pay
envelope’s bulging. But let me
tell you something, brother, be-
fore you spend a dime . . . That
money’s mine too!

I can take it. The mess out

here. And missing my wife
and kid.

What I can’t take is you
making it tougher for me. Or
my widow, if that’s how it
goes. And, brother, it will make
it tough—if you splurge one
dime tonight.

You’re working . . . and I’m
fighting . . . for the same thing.
But you could lose it for both
of us—without thinking. A guy
like you could start bidding me
right out of the picture tonight.
And my wife and kid. There
not being as much as every-
body’d like to buy—and you
having more green stuff than I.
But remember this, brother——
everything you buy helps to
send prices kiting. Up. UP.
AND UP. Till that fat pay
envelope can’t buy you a

square meal.

Stop Spending. For yourself.
Your kids. And mine. That,
brother, is sense. Not sacrifice.

Know what I’d do with that
dough . . . if I’d the luck to
have it?

I’d buy War Bonds—and,
God, would I hang on to them!
(Bonds buy guns—and give
you four bucks for your three!)
. . . I’d pay back that insurance
loan from when Mollie had the
baby . . . I’d pony up for taxes
cheerfully (knowing they’re the
cheapest way to pay for this
war) . . . I’d sock some in the
savings bank, while I could

. . . I’d lift a load off my mind
with more life insurance.

And I wouldn’t buy a shoe-
lace till I’d looked myself
square in the eye and knew I

 

couldn’t do without. (You get
to knowin’u- out here — what
you can do without.)

I wouldn’t try to profit from
this war—and I wouldn’t ask
more for anything I had to sell.

I’ve got your future in my
ride hand, brother. But you’ve
got both of ours, in the inside
of that stuffed-up envelope.
You and all the other guys
that are lookin’ at the Main
Street shops tonight.

Squeeze that money, brother.
It’s got blood on it!

Use it up
Wear it out
Make it do

Or do without

 
 
 
 

A UNITED STATES WAR MESSAGE PREPARED BY THE WAR ADVERTISING COUNCIL; APPROVED BY
THE OFFICE OF WAR INFORMATION; AND CONTRIBUTED BY THE MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA

FEBRUARY. 1944

,0-

641

642

Are

All RAH

PART [It In WURII?

"II-{EN you need JUNIOR

ARTS & ACTIVITIES, the magazine of '

IDEAS and PLANS! This monthly publica-
tion contains both methods and project ideas
for carrying out many unusual activities.
There are arts and crafts suitable for use with
children from the kindergarten thrOugh junior

high school.

Each issue of JUNIOR ARTS & ACTIVITIES

stresses the use of arts and crafts to motivate
and to correlate. It is no idle statement that
while working with their hands children can
be trained in the fine habits of democratic
citizenship.

Because many art and craft materials formerly
available cannot now be obtained, recreational
and craft directors will find the practical sug-
gestions contained in JUNIOR ARTS &
ACTIVITIES a great help.

only

$3.00 for a year's subscription
(10 issues)

subscribe today

Junior ARTS 8: ACTIVITIES

DEPT. R
46I6 North Clark Street

Chicago 40, Illinois

 

UNITED FRONT FOR YOUTH IN FORT WAYNE

virtually unlimited, depending upon local condi-
tions and the ingenuity of group leaders.

The following list has been prepared from sev-
eral suggested lists of tried and accepted activities:

Civilian defense activities
Community campaign services
Services to community agencies
War service organizations

United Front for Youth in Fort Wayne

(Continued from page 606)
Adult Director. The Director shall determine

what constitutes unbecoming conduct.

There shall be a membership fee, the amount to
be determined by the Student Council.

There shall be no attendance by members except

, under the supervision of an approved Adult

Director.

Student Council. The Student Council shall con-
sist of eight members from each of the participat—
ing local high schools, appointed by the principal
of each high school, whose term shall be one year
unless terminated according to the rules of the
Teen Canteen.

Rules. Rules shall be formulated by the Student
Council and the Policies Committee of the Teen
Canteen, and shall be observed by all members.

No activity shall be permitted which excludes
any member except upon a majority vote of the
Student Council, with the approval of the adult
director.

N 0 smoking or use of intoxicating beverage
shall be permitted on the premises of the Teen
Canteen.

No financial obligation shall be incurred except
upon the approval of the Governing Board of
Control.

A regular employee of the Ft. Wayne school
system has been appointed by the Wayne Youth
Commission as a part—time recreation director for
the canteen. Assisting him will be a sizeable corps
of hosts and hostesses and a few paid workers. For
the purpose of providing the best sort of super-
vision possible for this already well-favored pro-
gram for youth, three interested women have or-
ganized a “Teen Canteen” volunteer workers
school. “A united front against Fort Wayne
youth’s problems” is the slogan of the commis-
sion and, as the commission has h0ped, almost
every public agency and civic-minded person in
the community is gradually and voluntarily giving

some form of support to the request behind that
slogan.

RECREATION

J New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Gardening for Victory

National Victory Garden Institute, 598 Madison Avenue,
New York 22, N. Y. $.10.

HIS DIGEST 0F PROCEEDINGS of the NatiOnal Victory

Garden Conference held in Chicago, November 16-17,
1943, under the auspices of the National Victory Garden
Institute, contains important material presented by a num—
ber of speakers.

“The 1943 Victory Garden season is now history,”
states the report. “Victory Gardeners raised more vege-
tables than did the professional farmers. In 20,000,000
Victory Gardens the staggering total of 8,000,000 tons of
food was produced, and the cash value of the vegetables
was at least a billion dollars.” The objective of the
National Victory 'Garden Institute for 1944 is 22,000,000
Victory Gardens.

The Story of Painting

By Thomas Craven. Simon and Schuster, New York,
N. Y. $5.00.

N THIS BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED BOOK, Mr. Craven,

starting with the first aimless scratchings of the cave
men, expores every bend and turning of the mighty
stream of painting. We become acquainted with the great
artists of the Italian, Flemish and British schools and we
meet many American artists, so often neglected in a gen-
eral survey of the field.

Modern Events Quiz Book

Edited by Neil MacNeil. Blue Ribbon Books, Garden

City, New York. $1.00.

S YOUR KNOWLEDGE UP TO DATE? You will soon find out

if you try to answer the 1,400 questions about the world
of today which appear in this volume based on quizzes
which were published in the New York Times. The ques-
tions cover wide range—almost the full sweep of human
activity and they provide a liberal course in current events
and are a challenging drill in living history.

|,000 Ways to Have Fun!

By Harry D. Edgren, M.A., M.P.E. Order through
author at 56 McKinley Street, White Plains, New
YOrk. $.25.

N THIS ATTRACTIVELY illustrated booklet the author has

brought together games, stunts, and social ideas for
Special occasions. There is a complete party plan for
every month of the year, and no game is repeated in any
other program. Many of the ideas suggested in one pro-
gram may !be used equally well in the others, and count-
less different game suggestions can be created by adding
to the games, combining them, and changing them to suit
your particular party.

The games and activities described in the booklet have
been classified under Active Games and Relays, Enter-
tainment Stunts, and Quiet Games. "

FEBRUARY 1944

A Primer of Stagecratt

B£%?ning Nelms. Dramatists Play Service, New York.

ALTHOUGH MR. NELMS in his foreword states that almost
nothing in his book is original, he has performed an
important service in assembling and classifying a vast
quantity of technical details regarding scenery. Chapter
headings are as follows: Scenery is Simple; The Stage;
The Nature of Scenery; Practical Scene Design; Tools;
Materials; Building Methods; Scene Painting; Assembl-
ing Scenery; and Scene Shifting.

Tap Dance for Fun

By Hermine Sauthoff. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York 18, N. Y. $3.00.

AP DANCING, the author believes, has a contribution to

make to physical education and she points out what the
values are in this book which also contains movements
and information on music.

Songs and Games of the Americas

Translated and arranged by Frank Henius. Illustrated
by Oscar Fa-bres. Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York.

$2.00.

MR. HENIUS HAS ASSEMBLED a delightful collection of

games and songs-for children. In this book there
are some very old Spanish games the very names of
which are an invitation to play them—~The Spotted Bird,

Sweet Orange, and Golden Thread. There are, too, newer
games and a number that are very similar to our own. A

few songs are included. Colored illustrations add to the
attractiveness of the book.

Music On My Beat

By Howard Taubman. Simon and Schuster, New York,
N. Y. $2.50.

MR. TAUBMAN, Music Editor of The New York Times,
takes us on a tour of the music world and does it 'in
a delightfully chatty manner. We learn not only about
the music of our day but we discover how human musi—
cians can be and how they perform off stage and on. Best
of all we learn how great are the potentialities of our
own American music.

Thirty Famous One-Act Plays

Edited by Bennett Cerf and Van H. Cartmell. Garden
fElith Publishing Company, Garden City, New York.

THIS COLLECTION, the fourth of a series of play antholo-

gies compiled by the same editors, is international in
its sc0pe and ranges in period from Anatole France to
Saroyan. It should prove of great value to little theater
groups throughout the country since every play is suited
for amateur production. In the appendix a series of brief
biographical sketches of the thirty authors is presented.

643

644 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Physical Fitness for Boys.

By Ben W. Miller, Ph.D., Karl W. Bookwalter,
Ed. D., and George E. Schlafer, M.S. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York 18, N. Y. $3.00.

The author has given us a modern physical fitness pro—
gram keyed to the times and providing the variety_an.d
flexibility required to meet present needs. Empha51s lS
placed on the principles, procedures and standards by
which effective physical fitness programs may be realized
and there are hundreds of illustration-s on conditioning

exercises, dual contests, simple stunts, group games and
similar activities.

The Cokesbury Shower Book.

By Katherine Fite and Garland Clawson Paine.
Abingdon-Cokesbury Press, New York, N. Y. $1.75.

All kinds of showers are described in this book of
forty-one completely planned showers—enough to suit all
tastes. There are wedding, bon voyage, stork, seasonal
and wedding anniversary showers and there are recipes
for delicious refreshments.

Health and Physical Fitness.

By I. H. Gold'berger, MD. and Grace T. Hallock.
Ginn and Company, New York, N. Y. $1.92.

Health of the 'body, health of the mind and health of
the emotions are taught in this book whose text has been
integrated with Federal, state and local municipal pro-
grams to promote health and safety and to conserve man-
power. Material appears in four parts: Your Equipment

for Living and How to Use it, Your Personality and
How to Enrich It, Your Home and Community and How

to Make Them Healthful, .and Your Future and How to
Face It. Health and Physzcal Fitness is a timely, practi-
cal manual.

Famous Pianists for Boys and Girls.

By Gladys Burch. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York 18, N. Y. $2.00.

Many of the most famous pianists attained renown
when they were still children. The story of these boys
and girls and other pianists are told for children in this
book, the third of Miss Burch’s series on composers.
Every piano student will read the book with interest and
enjoyment. '

Housing Yearbook 1943.

National Association of Housing Oiiicials. Chicago,
Illinois. Edited by Hugh R. Pomeroy and Edmond
H. Hoben. $3.00.

This Year-book presents a brief, comprehensive and -

well-organized review of housing developments in 1942.
Of special interest to recreation workers is the emphasis
,given during 1942 to as complete decentralization of ‘re-
sponsibility as possible, so that housing programs can not
only be speeded up, but can be related so far as_possible
to local conditions. . -'

The Yearbook accepts the need for community facili-
ties including recreation in public housing, even though
only a minimum standard can be achieved 'in connection
with the present war housing. The value of such facili-
ties is indicated by the following quotation referring to
community facilities: “The situation was improved sub-
stantially during the year, but occupancy of otherwise
adequate war housing is still retarded in some cases by
the absence of necessary facilities.”

The Other Americas.

Edited and illustrated by Xavier Cugat. Edward B.
Marks Music Corporation, New York, N. Y. $1.00
net (except Canada).

Here is an album of typical Central and South Ameri-
can songs and dances designed not only to meet a real
need but to perform an important service in making avail-
able to the peOple of this country one. aspect of the cul-
tural contributions of Latin America.

Handel at the Court of Kings.

By Opal Wheeler. E. P. Dutton and Company, New
York, N. Y. $2.00.

The many-sided career of George Frederic Handel be-
ginning with his childhood is traced in this book in a
style which will commend it to children who love music
whether they are young musicians themselves Or not.

Second American History Quiz Book.

Compiled by Edward Boykin. Blue Ribbon Books, ,
Garden City, New York. $1.00. ‘

How much do you know about the history of America?
Edward Boykin puts your knowledge to the test in his
series of questiOns and answers about America. There
are over 900 new questions in Volume 2.

Taxidermy.

By Leon L. Pray. The Macmillan Company, 60
Fifth Avenue, New York. $1.49.

“This may be a fascinating hobby in this modern time,”
says the author and he addresses his suggestions and in-
structions to those who are looking merely for the en-
Joyment there is in collecting, mounting, and arranging
in their leisure time a collection of animal Specimens.

Health on the Production Front.

Prepared ‘-by Sidney Oviatt. National Association of
Manufacturers, 14 W'est 49th Street, New York.

“In war or peace no plant is too small to profit from a
health program,” says Dr. Victor G. Heiser in his fore-
word to this Guide for America’s \Var Production Plants.
The importance of recreation as a morale builder is
stressed in the booklet. “Perhaps the most important
factor in good morale, next to good working conditions
in general, is adequate opportunity for recreation.”

Health on the Production. Front should 'be an invalu-
able aid to war plants, large and small, and to citizens 0n
the home front concerned with conditions in the plants
which are supplying the sinews of war.

 

In the review of Arts and Crafts: .4 Practical Hand-
book, by Marguerite Ickis, which was published in the
January 1944 issue of RECREATION, the price was given as
$2.50. A. S. Barnes and Company, publishers of the book,
have found it necessarv to increase the price to $3.00.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICER S

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. \VINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. “I. II. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEM IS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, I). C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Molinc, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. TIIOMAS A. EDISON, W'est Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \V-ash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. chxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN DaJAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa. -
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. VVARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOIIN G. \VINANT, Concord. N. H.

STANLEY W’OODwARD, \Vashington. D. C.

RECREATION

