Au". .4-

u

IN the funeral oration for the soldiers who died in the first
year of the Peloponnesian War, Pericles had this to say of
Athens: ‘We have provided education and recreation for the
spirit . . . and beauty in our public buildings, which delight our
hearts by day and banish sadness.’ It is unusual for a statesman
to give such a reason why men should die gladly for their country.
Yet this recreation for the spirit, these buildings that delight the
heart by day, are precisely the reason why Athens has remained
a symbol for man’s hopes.

“It is easy to make the story of Athenian democracy sound
fraudulent. It was a brief story, dark with quarrels. The life of
the city rested always on the labor of slaves and of under-
privileged metics. And Athens, whose writers preached modera-
tion in such lovely language, bled herself white in an immoderate
imperialist war. Yet for more than two millenniums man has
looked to Athens as a sign of grace. And in matters such as this
the instinct and the memory of man are always right.

“The beauty of Athens was a democratic beauty because it
was made for the most part by the ordinary artisans, slaves and
citizens alike, doing their daily work and drawing their pay like
other craftsmen. The beauty was therefor “everybody, just as
the theater of Athens was attended by everybody. Whatever the
city was able to build that was noble or great, it was built out in
the open for all men to see, so that it might help to banish all
men’s sadness. In recreation for the "spirit the Athenians strove
toward equality, and therefore the human race has blessed their
memory. In politics they were oppressive toward their neigh-
bors; in economics they indulged the usual undisciplined greed;
and these sins brought them to early disaster. But in one great
field of life they tried to make"men’s opportunities éqdal, and for
that they earned the power to make great art in their lifetimes,
and immortality in the mind of man.”

Extract from A Time for Greatness, by Herbert Agar. Used by courtesy
of the publishers, Little, Brown and Company, Boston, Massachusetts.

ln Preparation for the
Birthday of.~Abrahom Lincoln

HE BIRTHDAY of Abraham Lincoln belongs in a peculiar sense to the national recre-

ation movement. Abraham Lincoln felt, as only a few men have, the dignity of
the human spirit, the worth of the individual. He was unwilling to see one man force
his will or his way of life upon another.

Many have been the movements where one man or a few limited leaders attempt
to force their will upon the great mass of the people. There are many leaders even
today who feel that they know best what other people should do, what other people
should become, just what kind of characters other people should have.

The recreation movement has never attempted to regiment men and women,
to set up a mold and to force all different kinds of human beings into this one mold.
The leaders of the recreation movement have never believed in attempting by indirec-
tion and by concealed methods to make people over according to patterns of life that
the people themselves had not chosen and knew nothing about. Such programs have
seemed to many of us a fundamental violation of democratic principles and of the
Golden Rule of doing unto others as you would have them do unto you.

Rather the effort has been to establish an atmosphere that would be congenial
to the human spirit, to give each man and woman a chance to do the things that he
or she wants to do. The leaders in the recreation movement had believed that men
and women make greater progress in the climb up to Mount Olympus if they have
freedom in their spare time to choose their own paths and try to work out their own
destiny. The attempt rather has been to furnish the facilities and the opportunities
so that men should not be prevented and held back from fulfilling those desires that
are fundamental, that lie deepest, so long as such purposes do not cause harm and
dilliculty for others.

All this, it seems to me, is in accord with the spirit of Lincoln. Creating an
atmosphere of happiness and good will and good cheer, a sense of freedom to live one’s
own life in one’s own way and yet in cooperation with many others to build a com-
mon society makes for surer and steadier progress than attempting by decree and
legislation to compel people to accept a way of life than seems to us best.

Surely this year no recreation system will fail to observe in some way the
birthday of Abraham Lincoln, who stood for brotherhood in all that matters most.

The playgrounds and recreation centers of America are a living memorial of the kind
of spirit Abraham Lincoln desired to create. "

 

JANUARY 1944

 

,7 533

n u. —-'u.. _r .
3-1“ 4. 'r.-~%. -» . , , _
Courtesy Playground and Recreation Department, Lo: Angela, Califor

 

The ,Cowan Hut

HE JAPANESE had

bombed Adak, Am-

chitka, Attu, and
every other spot in the
Aleutian Chain where
American troops might
be preparing bases. Nat-
urally the Commander
of the Alaskan Sector, did not wish to erect large
recreation buildings on these islands to be targets
for the Honorable Tojo’s bombs.

At Sitka, Kodiak, and Dutch Harbor, the Navy
had built “state-side” gymnasia and motion picture
halls comparable to those found in big cities in
this country. At Dutch Harbor, a sixty—four team
basketball tournament was held last fall; at Kodiak,
a forty-eight team basketball tournament. Bowl-
ing, badminton, boxing, and every' sport known to
the American public were scheduled.

As Recreation and Morale Ofiicer on the staff
of the Commander; Alaskan Sector, I had been
told that permanent or large gymnasia or recrea-
tion buildings were taboo at advanced bases. What
to do?

Now Adak was our first big advanced base in
the Aleutians beyond Dutch
Harbor, and Adak was grow-
ing up. When February of
1943 came on, we found that
the two mess halls plus Mc—
K e 11 n a H a l 1
(two quonsets
joined, making
a building 96’):
20’) were in-
sufficient to
hold the thou-
sands of sailors
who were ar-
riving in Adak
for duty and
who wanted to
attend the mov—
ies and church
services, as well'
as to exercise
and play games.
The problem
w a s t 0 Fl 11 (1

JANUARY 1944

The Navy's answer to a hard problem—
recreation centers at advanced bases

By Captain MAURICE M. WITHERSPOON
Chaplain Corps. U. 5. Navy

When completed. the Cowan hut meas—
ures 40’ x IOO’ plus 40’ x 40’ in the rear
with a gear rooml two dressing roomsI
and space for properties. band instru-
mentsI church gear, and other equipment

 

some sort of building
that would accommodate
the crowd but wouldn’t
make a target for enemy
bombers. The quonsets

(American name for
Nissen huts), half bar—
rel shaped, were too
small for our purposes, nor were the CCC bar-
racks satisfactory; we had lifted three CCC camps
bodily from Washington and Oregon and‘ had
dragged them to Alaska!

Pondering the problem of recreation buildings,
I made a special trip to Seattle to talk over the
matter with Captain A. D. Alexis of the Civil En-
gineer Corps. He showed me some warehouses
and cold storage plants, 40’ x 100’, made of
Cowan huts, whose structure was strand steel. I
saw no reason why they shouldn’t broaden their
scope, and with the permission of the Admiral I
ordered live for immediate delivery.

Happy and flushed with the success of my mis-
sion, I returned to Adak, where I vainly scanned
the horizon for my consignment. Since time would
not stand still. and my public was clamoring for its

Manhattan Center, I located

a Cowan hut that had been
- earmarked for a torpedo base

and got it immediately" by

promising to replace it with
one of my “live
on order.”

_ This hut had
to be erected by
volunteer labor
since it was not
on the priority
list. First we
used the band
of twenty-four
pieces which
was brought up
from Sitka for
the purpose.
When I met
B a n d m a s t e r
Boscola in Ko-
diak he said to
me, “Chaplain,

535

536 THE COM/AN HUT

I need two saxophones and I’ll
have the best band in Alaska!”
“You won’t, need them very
soon,” I told him, “for you’ll
have to build your Carnegie Hall
before you can play in it,” and
I began issuing his men ham-
mers, saws, shovels, and other
tools. In return for one of my
fieriest sermons aboard one of
the ships in port, the Captain,
an old shipmate of mine, gave
me ten carpenters’ mates for ten
days to work on the Cowan hut.
From the Army Quartermaster
Corps, in exchange for two
“pep” talks, I got the loan of a
bulldozer, a machine that as-
sumes terrible importance in
Alaskan building operations.

I was indeed fortunate to have as my assistant
in recreation at Adak, in that important period,
Lieutenant Commander George O’Brien, USNR,
the ex-movie star. He was fresh from the San
Diego Training Station where he had gained fifty
pounds since abandoning the movies. We had ex-
pected to see him alight from the plane, smoking
revolvers in each hand. Instead, clutched in his

fists, he had scores of clippings about the wonders
of Tex Ritter, the cowboy movie star. This was

A,

The theater of the building serves as a gymnasium'
and here basketball and similar sports are played

 

 

A popular feature is the new library
with its supply of books and magazines

real ammunition for our diplomatic task of build-
ing, as it just “happened” that the Executive Of-
ficer of the Seabees in Adak was none other than
Tex’s brother.

Three Agonizing Weeks

Everyone c00perated. It was our first . great
effort—the first Cowan hut to be used for recrea-
tion purposes. Three weeks saw its completion-—
three weeks in which we all learned a lot. Those
were agonizing and trying moments when the
“williwaws,” that unpredictable, powerful Alaskan
wind, whipped and twisted the
arching strands of steel we were
trying to set into the concrete
fioor. Covering over with gal-
vanized iron and camouHaging
were fairly simple processes.
The interior was lined with “nu-
wood,” pressed pulp wood which
comes in big sheets. Heating
was a big problem. At first we
used oil stoves; later on we in-
stalled steam heat. Since the
Cowan huts were originally in—
tended for warehouses, there
was no system of ventilation.
We used blower fans, and it was
a real problem to get fans up to
the Aleutians.

Every inch of space counted

RECREATION

THE COWAN HUT 537

as we had so many customers to accommodate.
The projection booth didn’t cut the length of the
building as we had raised it over the audience. At
first we planned to put the stage inside, but that
consumed twenty feet of precious space, so we
added a leanto behind the hut for the stage, and in
front of the building we added the office of the
Motion Picture Sub-Exchange. By means of these
dodges we managed to increase the seating capacity

from 525 to 600.

Dedicating the Hut

The Cowan hut, constructed by the more or less
voluntary labor of bandsmen, sailors, soldiers, and
barbers under the supervision of a cowboy movie
star, had aroused so much interest that everyone
from the Admiral down agreed that it must be
properly christened. The only way to mark the
occasion fittineg was to bring girls to Adak—the
first girls to set foot on that soil since the Aleu-
tians were used for a bridge to bring primitive
Asiatics to America! The Commander, Alaskan
Sector, and the Alaskan Defense Command were
in accord in our bringing the USO troop extraor-
dinary: four glamour girls, all singers and danc-
ers, who for seven months had been daring the
Alaskan wilds, were booked for the opening.

There is a saying that “There is a girl behind
every tree in the Aleutians, but there are no
trees!” So we had to bring up four pine trees
from Kodiak to plant in front of our Cowan hut
when the four girls arrived. It was a gala pre-
miere and never-to-be-forgotten by the 2,500 who
attended the first day. (Seating capacity, 600.)
From then on there always seemed to be a queue of
men running all the way around the hut. Some of
our most enthusiastic patrons were the Canadian
combat teams who had arrived for the proposed
invasion of Kiska; we showed movies to a thou-
sand of them every morning by holding shows at
eight and at ten.

At the time I was transferred from Alaska,
“Blackjack Hall,” as we had named the hut
(whether for Admiral “Blackjack” Reeves or for
Admiral “Blackjack” Fletcher was never deter-
mined), was being used from morning to night
for educational and commercial films, for enter-
tainments, band practice, church services, USO
shows, and even for setting-up exercises. About
this time my “five on order” Cowan huts arrived
and were distributed .to Amchitka, Attu, and other
advanced bases. One was retained at Adak to be
converted into an enlisted men’s club. The first

IANUARY 1944

Cowan hut in Amchitka was called the “Sea Otter”
in honor of the famous furbearing animal of that
name native to the island’s waters. The first hut
on Attu, erected shortly after the battle, was
named the “Barabara,” which means Aleut Hut;
it is a native name for the underground sod houses
in which the Aleutians lived for years and which
the Japanese copied when they dug into Attu and
Kiska. The purpose of the Barabara in Attu is

noted in the opening program:

Welcome Army and Navy

The purpose of The Barabara is to furnish a suit-
able building for the type of clean, wholesome relaxa-
tion and recreation which American soldiers and
sailors desire and deserve. Not only will the latest
motion pictures obtainable be shown each evening at
The Barabara, but live talent programs featuring Army
and Navy entertainers will add pleasant variety. It
is the hope of our Commanding Officer that all Naval
personnel, and as many of our Army neighbors as
possible, will take advantage of the facilities of The

Barabara. Use it and enjoy it.

Army Nights

There will be two shows each evening but Sunday.
The first show will be at 1900 and the second at 2100.
Sunday performance will be at 2100. On Tuesday
and Thursday evenings at the early show Army per-
sonnel will be given first choice of seats. Naval per-
sonnel will be permitted to occupy vacant seats, after
the Army has been seated. On every other day in the
week, Naval personnel will be permitted first choice
of seats at the early show, with the Army filling in
vacancies. Army and Navy personnel will be given
equal choice of seats at the second show each night.

After the initial opening, the value of the Cowan
hut for an advanced base was established. Ten
more were immediately ordered and then ten more.
The Navy really went into the Cowan hut busi-
ness! These huts have not been found suitable for
a multiple purpose building, and so at each place
where a large group of men are stationed, there is
now one for a theater and entertainment hall, and
one to be used exclusively for a gymnasium.

These buildings make ideal gymnasia where bas-
ketball courts can be marked off, where volley ball,
handball, and all other intramural sports can be
played. Setting-up exercises can be given in the
building and they are generally proving their use-
fulness in this fogbound group of islands. This
winter, with the Japanese no longer in the vicinity,
and with little danger of their returning except on
an occasional bombing raid,‘ the Cowan hut will
be the means of furnishing entertainment, recrea-
tion, and exercise for the Army and Navy on
American isles closest to the enemy.

A

HE HIGH SCHOOL doors burst open and the air
Twas soon filled with shouts of: “Let’s go to

the Coop.” “I bet I’ll beat you in ping-pong
today.” “Out of my way, I’m working at the bar
today.” “There’s more fun at the Coop—let’s go
there.”

Where is the steady stream of boys and girls
going? \Vhat’s all the excitement about? And
what is this “C00p”?

Last spring Miss Jessie Dotterer, director of the
Hobby Hall Dancing School, had an idea. The
boys and girls of Summit, she decided, needed a
place where they could meet afternoons, have some
fun, play ping-pong, and drink cokes. And it was
because of this idea that the C00p started.

\Vhen four rooms adjoining Miss Dotterer’s
study became vacant, the project really began to
materialize. News about the center traveled fast
and Miss Dotterer soon found that applications
for membership were coming in before definite
plans had been formulated. It was therefore de—
cided to hold a rally on May 21, 1943. Enthusi—
asm reached a high point at this meeting, and over
300 boys and girls signed up to take an active part.
An executive committee was formed and a dance
planned for June 4th at the high school to raise
money to pay the expenses of decorating the rooms.

Soon the decorating began; a juke box was in-
stalled; and chairs, card tables, ping-pong tables,
and other furniture donated by citizens of Summit
turned the rooms into a comfortable center. A
soft drink bar was set up.

The center, it was planned, would be open after-
noons and during the evening for special events. It

538

 

The young people of
SummitI New Jer-
sey. drew up a code
of cooperation from
which evolved the
name of the center

Courtesy Newark, N. 1., Evening News

would be a place where boys and girls could enjoy
activities together, but it would also be a service
center.

It was with the service motive in mind that the
young people themselves drew up the following
creed which each member signed:

I Want to Cooperate

I. With other members
In making and keeping our headquarters a
place to be proud of.

2. With my family
In helping them adjust home living to war
needs and by not taking advantage of the
present situation.

3. With my town
In respecting its pr0perty and the will of the
community of which I am a part.

4. With my country
In giving some of my free time to volunteer
war work. In putting 10 per cent of money
personally earned by me in war stamps.
Out of the Creed came the name of the center.
Since cooperation was to be the fundamental ob-

jective, it was a logical step to the name, “The
Coop.” '

 

Summit. New Jersey. has a teen age cen-
ter. So have many other communities in
America. But there are a number of features
about the Summit center so definitely the
creation of the young people themselves
that you will want to read about them.

RECREATION

THE “COOP” 539

During the summer of 1943, the “cooperators”
conducted their activities with interest growing
every day. Late in August Miss Dotterer ap-
proached H. S. Kennedy, Director of Recreation,
and asked for help. The Coop had outgrown its
quarters; Miss Dotterer would not be able to give
as much time to the project as would be necessary
during the winter months, and assistance was
needed. The problem was presented to the Board
of Recreation Commissioners, who agreed unani-
mously to cooperate with the young people and
authorized the director of recreation and his as-
sistant to give all help possible.

The next problem was to find new headquarters.
A group of about fifteen boys and girls represent-
ing the different age groups at the center, together
with Miss Dotterer and the director of recreation,
solved this problem by finding new quarters in a
modern building located in the center of the city
which had been vacated by a furnishing company.
The space available consisted of two floors and a
basement room. The manager of the estate own-
ing the building was approached, and after hear-
ing the story told by the young people he agreed
to rent the quarters at a very nominal fee and to
provide the heat.

A meeting was then called of the executive com-

IANUARY 1944

mittee which had begun calling itself the “Junior
Board.” This group consisted of members of the
original committee and others recommended by
Miss Dotterer. The problem was put up to the
boys and girls as to how money was to be raised
each month to pay rent and operating expenses,
estimated at $175. It was decided to recommend
to the membership that dues be paid of 50 cents a
month, with an initiation fee of 25 cents for all
new members and for old members who fail to pay
their October dues before the first of the month.

At this meeting plans were made to hold a rally
in the new quarters for all former members and
to present the plans recommended by the board.
Plans for the opening night dance on October Ist
and for an open house on the same afternoon were
discussed, and thetfollowing working committees
were selected: membership and finance, and a
committee for cleaning up the new quarters, mov-
ing in the furniture from the old rooms, and mak-
ing a number of alterations.

Business discussed at the rally held on Septem—
ber 24th included the acceptance of the recommen-
dations of the executive committee and the ap—
pointment of Dorothy Phillips as the director of
the Coop.

(Continued on page 582)

 

Courtesy Newark, N. 1., Evening News

What They Say

” 0 FIND OUR PLEASURES in simple things, to
T get our satisfaction from the non—competitive
sources open to us all, to revel in noble
music, to rediscover the joys of good conversation,
good friendships, good homes—such is the kind
of play that recreates our wasted powers.” -——Dr.

Ralph W. S ockman.

“The right kind of recreation offers release from
tensions, the relaxation of energy, poise and
morale.”—-Leona D. Galloway.

“People cannot put forth their greatest effort if
there is no relaxation, no doing of the things they
love to do and out of which they get recreation,
determination, and renewed strength.”——From the
Bntte, Alontana, Standard.

\

“The most needed consideration today is youth
and its recreational problems. We have had legis-
lation in years past to improve the hogs and other
livestock and much has been done to improve corn
and grains, but what have we done for the better-

ment of our youth ?”—F. Grace Johnson in the
Des Aloines Register.

"-1

“It is essential for the strengthening and main-
tenance of national morale and the spirit of victory
that there shall be not diminution, but increase in
the use of patriotic and inspirational music.”—
From the National M nsic Council.

“Greater opportunities for recreation must be
made available for those of us on the home front
despite the war pressure America is under. No one
should be permitted to persuade us that we can get
along without wholesome recreation for everyone.”

——-H. R. Hastings in the Journal of Health and
Physical Education.

“Every study of the recreational life of youth
indicates that only a small percentage of our young
people is being reached by either a public or pri-

vate leisure-time agency.”——From The Adminis-
tration of Y.M.C.A. Boys’ Work.

540

About Recreation

“America tomorrow must produce the imple-
ments of peace as never before. To do this ef—
fectively it will need a new standard of recreation
for all the nation.”——-Da_'zgid O. Woodbnry in

C ollier’s.

“Recreation, with the change of pace and release
and replenishment that it means, is an absolutely
vital part of the war effort. Army and Navy men,
factory heads, welfare workers, know that men and
women starved for fun are as hungry as if they
were starved for food— and as unhealthy.” —-
Eleanor Hard Lake in Junior League Magazine.

“Recreation of the right sort can provide work-
ers with new interests to replace the old. It can do
much to keep their lives normal and balanced.”—
From Spare Time, a War Asset for War Workers.

“We at home need something to keep our minds
swept as free as possible from worry, to help us to
be cheerful, optimistic persons for the sake of those
about us. And simple parties, planned for and
suited to the times, will go far to do this.”—
Lonise Price Bell in Parties in Wartime.

“Music unifies the emotions and thoughts of
people. Music can make people strong and un-
afraid. While listening to music is pleasureable, it
does not produce the same emotions or feelings
that the personal participation in music can.”—
Otis f. M nmaw in We Need Group Singing.

“Let all men and women begin with some per-
sonal hobby, merging their private likes with those
of others similarly minded, and before very long
they will find through these avenues all of the
satisfactions which marching in uniform gave
them.”-——-Sydney Greenbie in War and Leisure.

“Teen-age young people need a program of rec-
reation. As far as possible it should be their pro-
gram, planned in cooperation with them, depend-
ing upon them for as much leadership as they can
give, and adapted to their basic need of wholesome
association with persons of both sexes.”—From
Christian Youth in Wartime Service.

' RECREATION

 

Youth Wants to Live

prised me when Presi-
dent Braucher of the
National Recreation As-
sociation requested me to
write an article for this
magazine, telling what I
believe young people like
and desire in the way of
recreation. In the first place, I never thought any-
one who wasn’t an authority on anything ever
wrote anything anyhow! But then I thought, well,
I guess I must be an “authority” on youth because
I "m part of youth itself. With that bit of egotism
upholding my hand, I am about to give you a few
of my own personal ideas on the subject.
Ever since I was just a kid in grade school I

You KNOW, it really sur-

have pricked up my ears to the cry, “dead place—-

nothing doing—no place to go— no one to talk to
—no excitement.” When I reached high school
this theory was no longer a cry, but a shout, the
impassioned appeal of YOUTH.

I thought to myself, “I’ve been hearing this all
my life, something ought to
be done about it.” With this
in mind, I have made rather
a careful survey of what
youth seeks in the way of a
good time. ’

What Youth Wants

r».-_\13irst, youth wants to be
seeni’as well as heard. Young
men and ydung women, as
well as boys and girls of
teen age want to go some-
where and talk, laugh, and
play together. It may be the
corner drugstore; it might
be the local ice cream parlor
or a city playground. It
might be at some “popular”
young person’s house. It can
be anywhere that is con-
venient and to any degree
“pleasant.”

I have found that atten-
tion is that thing that
changes a dull time to a gay

JANUARY 1944

Young people are eager for life—
tor themselves and for others

By DOROTHEA NELSON

Secretary to the State Secretary
of the Y.M.C.A.. New Hampshire

 

Gedge H armors

time. A young (or older)
person might go to the
most beautiful and glamor-
ously gay spot in an equally
thrilling city, but if he or
she receives little or no at-
tention the place is “dead.”
Incidentally, this latter fact
should be considered when
hostesses are chosen for community centers, USO’s,
or canteens. These organizations need people who
are going to sense shyness in young people and
who are going to help them to make new j'friends
and have a good time. I have noticed that too often
so-called hostesses just sit around making no ap
parent effort to introduce bashful boys and girls,
thus making the social aspect of the situation
almost unbearable. I know; I’ve “been there.”
Young people like to get together and talk over
important questions of the day. They like to
“sound” each other out and above all, TALK! My
friends like to go swimming, bowling, dancing, and
dining. They like to see good movies, all types of
sports, and they enjoy par-
ticipating in these sports,
too. They like to go to good
concerts and lectures. Youth
today is seeking a high level
of culture in entertainment.
The average boy and girl of
today like the “real thing”
and will not lower them-
selves to cheap imitations. I
speak of the youth that
thinks and lives and desires
all that is good and beauti-
ful of the world. These
young folks don’t want to
be always on the receiving
end and never on the “giv-
ing,” however. They will
put on programs to enter-
tain others. They will work
hard to build themselves a
community center and main-
tain it, if they are just en-
couraged a little and given

the support of their older
friends.

541

542 YOUTH WANTS TO LIVE

For two years I have been president of the
Greater Concord Youth Council which serves hun-
dreds of Protestant young people and works for
the good of all young people—whether Catholic,
Protestant or Jewish. As president of the Council,
I wrote some articles in our local newspaper re-
garding the necessity of a community center for
Concord. I received all sorts of responses— en.-
couraging and discouraging. I still think we need
this center, and we’re going to have it, if it takes
me all my life to see the project through! Natur—
ally, I was pleased to be elected to the New Hamp-
shire Recreation Council. As a Council member I
shall do all I can to see this dream come true.

As I write this, I think of a statement made by
George Bernard Shaw to the effect that “youth is
such a priceless thing—it’s a pity to waste it on
young people.” I think I understand what the
great satirist means. While we have the energy
and gaiety of our years, we do not always have the
mature judgment and discretion of our elders.
This is, unfortunately, true; but perhaps that is
why we are gay! We can impart this to those of
the older generations who will live along with us
and become enthusiastic when we are, and serious
when we deem it necessary. We must look to our
older friends, however, for guidance and approval;
for it is certainly not our desire to be unwise in
our actions.

We, the youth, are eager for life. We yearn for
interest and sympathetic advisers. Youth wants to
live and help others to share the exuberance of
living.

I have argued many, many times with those old—
school, pessimistic believers who are staunchly
positive that “youth is going to the dogs.” If it is,
throw me a bone, I’m going with it! Youth is as
fine as it 'ever was—even more so, in that they
crave greater and bigger things than our grand-
mothers and grandfathers ever dreamed attainable.

Our present juvenile delinquency problem is the
result of a lack of interest in children and teen
age young people. No one “cared.” Now every—
one cares—almost too late. We’ve got to show
these young folks that we are interested in where
they are going and we’ve got to help them to
achieve the right goal. “Day schools” are a fine
example of what can be done to help.

I have found, too, that youth doesn’t—as a
general thing—want to be “bad.” To the mind of
the average boy and girl, drinking and gambling
are bad practices and not what youth wants. I
have asked young people “why did you do it ?”

The answer is always the same “nothing else to
do-—-town is dead—have to do something for ex-
citement—nobody cares.”

If the churches and the community could only
work together to make these young people realize
that they are important, then certainly the next
generation has something to which it well may
look forward. A war, terrible and all-engrossing
though it is, is certainly no reason for neglecting
our youth. After the smoke has cleared, after the
guns have silenced, we all want our boys to come
back to a world that is not embittered or hardened.
We want them to return to a human and sympa—
thetic people whose youth is fine and strong,
whose spirits are not crushed, and whose eager-
ness to live is great.

Recreation offers these young people, as well as
older pe0p1e, a chance to really live—a chance to
share with others a rich and wholesome experi-
ence. We do not want the souls of our young folk
to become musty, dark cellars, but rather prisms
of light and beauty. We must heed their call. I, as
a young person, must help my generation not only
to win this war but to remain steadily on its feet
in time of war and suffering.

To those of you who are youth—in body and in
spirit—I beg of you do not let another young (or
even older) person in your community become
lonely. Talk to that person, take him or her into
your homes. Go to good dances, good movies, and
good parties. See good basketball games and foot-
ball games. To the older people, with youthful
Spirits I say—heed the plea of the younger gen-
eration. Take it to heart, carry it with you and do
something about it. Don’t give youth a chance to
feel neglected now—especially those who are too
young to join the armed forces or to work. They
need the affection and the interest of all of us.

Let us be strong and helpful, for when the light
of a new day dawns, we shall want our youth to be
standing high above the ruins with a grim but
great determination to carry on.

“Youth cannot thrive in a fixed world. They
find so much that needs changing, so much that
seems stupid, so much they cannot understand.
They long to try their hand on this old world, to
twist it their own way even though they are not
very clear what the way might be. . . . Their eager
minds cannot accept our weary, ‘Lct it be.’ Youth
is endowed with a new vision, and while it annoys
the elders, it is by its force that the world pro-
gresses.”—Angelo Patri.

RECREATION

 

 

AFETY AID CLUBS on each of the park play-
S grounds of Minneapolis are popular additions
to the program. Because sliding or coasting
ranks so high in favor with the city’s children, each
playground has a Coast Guard Division of the
Safety Aids. Coasting presents many safety prob-
lems especially in parks where there are many
good hills and just as many trees. During the
coasting season Coast Guards are on duty helping
the little children find safe places to slide and doing
their best to combat the saboteur of play—the
accident. .
p A few of the rules issued by the Recreation De-
partment of the Park Board follow:

Safety for General Skating

No one should be allowed on the skating rink
without skates.

Keep dogs off the skating rink.

Keep sleds and sticks of all kinds off the skat-
ing rink.

Do not play games of tag or prisoner’s base on
skating rink.

Crack the whip is not a game for the ice rink.

Do not skate too fast on the rink, keep your
speed for the speed track.

IANUARY 1944

, a 4' x . 3;‘
Courtesy Minneapolis Park Board

If you cannot skate well, keep to the center of
the rink, then you will not be a hazard to the other
skaters.

Be careful in handling skates when they are not
being worn. The skates should be strapped to-
gether and should be carried under the arm when
skater is coming to or leaving the rink.

Skate with the crowd on the rink and not
against it.

Stay off all rinks until the proper authorities
declare them safe for skating. -

Safety Hints for Snow Hockey

Always keep brooms low—below waist level.

Broom handles must not be too long and should
be padded. ‘

Substitute, if possible, an extra warm sweater or
jacket while playing; then your outside jacket will
be dry and prevent chills and a bad cold.

Frost bitten toes and fingers may result if you
stay out too long.

Do not crowd the goaliej—to keep from being
hit with the broom.

Stand and run erect—to prevent being hit with
broom.

543’

544 SAFETY IN WINTER FUN

Keep playing space free from ice patches to pre—
vent slipping.

The referee’s whistle should always be taped to
prevent burning of the lips.

Safety in Winter Hiking and Skiing
Skiing
Avoid skiing with faulty equipment—be sure
bindings, skis and poles are in good condition.

Choose a hill to ski on that is suitable to your
ability and has good snow.

Learn controlled skiing; never attempt feats
that are beyond your ability; learn first how to
check your speed and stop.

When walking with ski equipment carry the
poles fastened together with the points forward
and toward the ground. Do not carry them over
your shoulder. Avoid making sudden turns which
might cause you to thrust the tip of the pole or
skis into someone.

When using a tow, beware of loose flying cloth—
ing such as scarfs, open jackets, and take the
proper grip of the rope. If there is no one to
guide you at the bottom of the tow be sure you
allow enough space between you and the fellow
ahead so in case he falls you have time to get out
of his way.

“Track” is the ski term for clearing the path.
If you hear the word get out of the way; if some-
one is in your path, call “track.”

Clothing—several thin layers of woolen cloth-
ing give the best protection against cold. Boots
should fit properly and big enough to allow for
several pair of socks; tight enough to prevent
rubbing blisters or spraining an ankle.

Mittens should be of wool worn under a leather
or gabardine pair.

For frozen parts avoid rubbing snow on the part
affected. Let the part thaw out gradually, Le. if a
hand is frozen place it in the opposite arm pit and
let it gradually return to body temperature.
Hiking

Hikes should always be scouted by the leader
before taken. In the winter
be sure to watch out for dan—
gerous icy trails, steps, etc.

Clothing precautions should
be the same as that outlined
for skiing.

Frozen parts of the body

should be treated as before
mentioned.

which are

/'

The activities of the Safety Aid Clubs.
proving to be such helpful
and dependable service groups in aiding

the playground directorI will be de-
scribed in detail in a future issue of

RECREATION by Miss Loretta Garvin, As-
sistant Director of Women's Activities,

Recreation Department. Board of Park
Commissioners, Minneapolis. Minnesota.

Avoid throwing snowballs, chunks of frozen
snow, etc., on hikes as well at all other times.

Take special precautions when crossing icy
highways and roads.

Start hikes earlier to avoid hiking across fields
and along highways after dark. If a night hike is
scheduled, wear light colored clothes which may
be easily seen by motorists.-

safety in Hockey

Play with boys of similar age, size, and experi-
ence.

Hockey is too strenuous a game for boys with
heart disorders.

Playing until exhausted is unhealthy —-always
remember your rest periods.

Maintain healthy living habits—this will make
you strong enough to play such a strenuous game.

Wearing ankle braces does not give your ankles
enough exercise to become strong.

Obtain and wear as much of necessary equip-
ment as possible -— especially knee pads, shin
guards, elbow pads, hip pads.

When falling to the ice, keep body relaxed.

Much injury to others can be prevented by
keeping stick below hips at all times.

Sticks with nails protruding and broken edges
are dangerous to others.

Learn how to dribble puck without looking at
it—accomplishing this will enable you to keep
your head up to see where you are going.

In practice, skating pell—mell all over the rink is
a sure way to incur injuries.

In bodily contact with other players, keep elbows
and hands out in front of you to “cushion” the
blow.

Mere body blocking is safer and much more
effective than vicious charging and rough body
checking.

Always remember that attempting to injure
opponents will result in the enmity of others and
injury to yourself in the end.

Outline of Coast Guards

Ten points for prompt at-
tendance at meetings, wear-
ing badge and courteous par-
ticipation.

Ten points for new mem-

(Continued on page 576)

RECREATION

To the Lad

ASHINGTON and Lin-
W coln weren’t the only
° famous people born in
the month of February. The
history book tells us that
this month numbered as
many as six important
women who, as women suf-
fragettes or advocates of
higher education, carved
quite a name for themselves
in our nation’s history.

\\\. \

So why not a February
party in their honor? This will be something new
in the way of social entertainment—a gay old—
fashioned affair with just the right mixture of fun
and timely activities.

You’ll have a good time reverting to your child—
hood days when you used to cut out paper dolls——
this time these colorful figures, in the shape of old-
fashioned ladies dressed in hoop skirts, bustles,
leg o’mutton sleeves, and bonnets, will be the basis
for your invitations.

As this is a February party for famous women,
a little poem on the front of the cutout written in
fine delicate script will be most appropriate. It
might go something like this:

“ set Lincoln and Washington have their days,
It’s the women so famous to whom we give praise,
They, too, were born when February came

So let’s celebrate each by name——
Miss Palmer, Miss \Villard, Miss Lyon, and

Miss Shaw,
Miss Blackwell, Miss Anthony, and yes, many
more.”

' In the line of decorations, transform your living
room into a scene right out of the 1800’s when
these famous women were fighting for women suf-
frage, higher education, and other “causes.” Dust
off those old oil lamps and place them in strategic
places around the rooms. If these lamps aren’t
available, how about adding that old-fashioned
touch by dressing up the regular light fixtures
with crepe paper ruffles of bright colors?

Modern framed pictures will be out for this
party so substitute the heavy—framed pictures of
your ancestors—and scatter around the room
smaller pictures and family albums which include

JANUARY 1944

 

By RACHEL WEISBERGER
National Recreation Association

Here's a party that really is
different. for it's not George
Washington and Abraham
Lincoln who are in the lime-
light, but Susan B. Anthony.
Emma Willard. Mary Lyon.
and other famous women
with birthdays in February

the humorous “when mother
was a girl” snapshots. For
the windows and doorway
use hanging drapes with
decorative fringes. Scatter
lots of plump feather pillows
on all the chairs and place
old-time crocheted tidies or
antimacassars on every apprOpriate piece of fur-
niture. Drag out the old-fashioned vases and
cookie jars and fill them with festive bunches of
artificial flowers.

Throughout the room, place large hand-de-
signed placards and posters containing such mes-
sages as “Votes for Women,” “Pioneers of the
National American Women Suffrage Association,”
and others— just to remind your guests of the
famous women whose birthdays you’re celebrating.
For the leaders of higher education—Mary Lyon,
Emma Willard, and Alice Freeman Palmer—
pictures of college buildings and old college year-
books on the tables will bring their names to mind.

Some Activities

Name Charades. Here’s a quick but fun-provok-
ing way of getting acquainted with everyone at the
party after all the guests have finally arrived.
Make up two teams, with the hostess acting as
timekeeper. Each member of both sides, in rota-
tion, will get up and act out the syllables of his or
her first and last names, using no speech, just
gestures. Members of the other team will have to
guess the name _while the timekeeper keeps a rec-
ord of how long it takes to guess correctly. After
all the guests have acted out their names and are
properly identified, the hostess will announce the
Winning team—the one which has the least num-
ber of minutes to its record.

A Birthday Hunt. Since this is a birthday party,
this game will be most appropriate. On small slips
of paper write the names, birthday, and a brief
biographical sentence about the six famous women
born in February. With these slips mix the names

545

546 TO THE LADIES!

of famous people born in other months—Thomas
Jefferson, Florence Nightingale, Robert Fulton,
Harriet Beecher Stowe, and others. Hide the slips
about the room and at a given signal ‘tell all the
guests to start on a Birthday Hunt. At the end of
ten minutes, the guests must cease searching and
count the slips they have found. Those finding the
ones with February birthdays must read them
aloud, and if anyone has found more than one such
slip he is declared the winner. The prize may be a
small birthday book.

Here are the names of the six famous women
born in February:

3rd—Elizabeth Blackwell, 1821-1910, a pioneer
advocate of women suffrage

I4th—Anna Howard Shaw, 1847-1919, leader
in the cause of women suffrage, and preacher

15th—Susan B. Anthony, 1820—1906, pioneer
women suff'ragette

218t—-Alice Freeman Palmer, 185 5—1902, leader
in college education for women; president of We]-
lesley College

23rd—Emma Hart Willard, 1787-1870, pioneer
of higher education for women and wrote the hymn
“Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep”

28th—Mary Lyon, 1797-1849, pioneer advocate
of higher education for women; founder of Mount
Holyoke Seminary

Travel at Home. Just as it was difficult to travel
around the country in the days of Susan B. An-
thony and Mary Lyon, it is even more important
that wartime travel be restricted today as much as
possible. But here’s a game that can take your
guests all over the United States while they are
comfortably seated in the living room.

All the players are sitting on chairs arranged in
a circle, with the one who is “It” standing in the
center. “It” points to one of the players, calling
out the name of a state, and begins to count. The
person pointed to must give the name of a city in
that state before “It” counts to ten. If a player

can’t answer by then, he or she changes places
with “It” and takes it out on someone else!

Musical Line by Line. This musical game will
fit right in with the historical, sentimental mood
of the festivities. Before the party, write out the
lines of some old-fashioned songs with each line on
a separate piece of paper. Keep the first line of
each chorus but pin the other slips to curtains or
pillows or place them behind pictures with one end

of the paper showing. Then divide your guests
into teams, one team for each song.

One person on the team is bandmaster. Give
him the slip of paper on which is written the first
line of the chorus of one of the songs. With the
help of the other players on his team, he must find
the other lines and complete the song. The band-
master, however, is the only member of the team
who can take any of the slips of paper from .the

, places where they are hidden. The other players

help hunt for them, and when they find one they
call the leader-to the place by shouting or singing
the first line of the chorus of their team song.
Also, if the bandmaster spies one of the lines he is
looking for, he is not allowed to pick it up until
after one of the members of his group discovers it.

A prize is awarded to the team which first com-
pletes its song. Then each of the groups must
sing one verse of their particular song, while the
others join in the chorus. ‘

Here are a few suggestions of songs that may
be used for this game:

A Pretty Girl
The Band Played 0n

Tell Me, Pretty Maiden
I’ll Take You Home Again,

I’m Always Chasing Rain- Kathleen

bows PVaiting for the Robert E.
Silver Threads Among the Lee

Gold Sweet Genevieve

Can You Remember? While your guests are in
the looking back mood, try this memory game on
them. Line the players up in two teams and pro- .
ceed like in a spelling match, asking one player the
question and charging all others to be silent. If he
doesn’t answer it correctly, pass on to the next,
and so on through both teams. Some of the “ques-
tions and answers” might be: °

1. What was the battle cry during the Spanish-Ameri-
can war? “Remember the Maine.”

2. Who wrote Uncle Tom’s Cabin? Harriet Beecher
Stowe. .

3. Name the three martyr Presidents. Lincoln, Garfield,
McKinley.

4. Who was designated as the greatest American sol-

dier during World War 1? Alvin York.

. Who was called “Old Hickory”? Andrew Jackson.

6. What organization has the slogan, “Be Prepared”?
Boy Scouts. _

7. \Vho took a twenty-year sleep on a hillside ?' Rip
van Winkle.

8. Who was the commander of the “Rough Riders”?
Theodore Roosevelt.

9. Of whom was it said, “There he stands like a stone
wall”? Stonewall Jackson. '

10. Who said, “All I know is what I read in the news-
papers”? Will Rogers.

(n

Light My Candle. Harking back to the days
when candles were one of the most popular means

RECREATION

TO THE LADIES! 547

of illumination, here is a novel candle relay. Line
up the men along one wall of the room, each with
an unlighted candle in his hand. Opposite them,
at the other end of the room, line up the girls each
with a box of matches. 

At the command “Fire,” each girl strikes a
match and then runs to light her partner’s candle.
When a match goes out, the girls must go back to
the starting line and strike another. She must not
start running until the match is lighted. The girl
who gets a candle lighted first is the winner, but
the game continues until all the men have a light.
(Care must be taken to guard against fire.)

What "'Age" Have You? Back to the birthday
theme—and all birthdays have to do with AGE—
how about a word game that will test the vocabu-
lary of your guests. Supply pencils and paper for
the players and have them number from one to ten
or as many questions as you want to ask.

Then read a list of questions which the players
must answer with a word ending in “-age.” The
one with the longest list of correct answers wins
and as a prize, present him with a gayly wrapped
box of birthday candles. Some of the questions
which might be included are:

1. A long journey—pilgrimage
Paid to our guests of honor—homage
Caused by bombs—damage

Handed down to us—heritage

The right to vote—suffrage

Used by the Red Cross—bandage

What we all need to face trouble—courage
Now curtailed on the highway—mileage

9. Ahead of us all—dotage

10. The now popular transportation—carriage

mxgweww

Tandem Race. Reminiscent of “bicycle built for
two” days is this humorous race. Each team is
made up of four couples. Members of each team
are asked to form a single column with partners
facing each other. Partners place hands on each

other’s shoulders. The man has his back to the
goal line.

At the signal, the first couple in each team pro-
ceeds to the goal, the man going backward and the
girl forward. They go around their own chair on
the goal line, come back and touch off the next
couple, and then return to the end of the line.

You can vary this game by arranging guests in
columns of couples, facing front. Each two couples
in turn join hands to form a hollow square, all of
them facing the goal. The first double tandem
walks to the goal line, returns, touches off the next
double tandem, and goes to the end of the line.

JANUARY 1944

This continues until the first double tandem is
back in its original position.

Arcades. Your party won’t have a dull moment
in it if you introduce a merry mixup game some-
time during the evening.

Half of the guests will be in couples anywhere
in the room. Partners face each other and join
hands to make an arch. The rest of the guests are
in the center of the room, and at a signal they rush
to get inside an arch. Since only one person is
allowed inside an arch there will be an overflow,
and these extras go to the center of the room.

The arches are numbered from one up to four,
five, or six, and the partners tell their number to
each person who comes into their arch. The leader
starts the action by calling for certain numbers to
change places. “All threes change arches !” and
the players inside arches numbered three change
places. The extras, of course, try to beat them to
an empty arCh.

“All out I” is the signal for all players inside
arches to change arches. After three or four rounds
the players inside arches change places with one of
the players forming an arch. A few rounds later
this is repeated with the other end of the arch so
that everyone may have a chance at activity.

Famous Party Guests. The famous women of
February have invited several equally noted men
and women to their party and it will be up to your
guests to find out who they are. With paper and
pencil each player makes a list of ten well-known
persons. Then he describes these persons with
words that begin with the initials of the names
themselves.

Everyone reads his descriptions for others to
identify and the person who can name the greatest
number wins. Here are a few suggestions for
names to be used:

Christopher Columbus
Franklin Delano Roosevelt

. Crafty Circumnavigator
For Democratic Right

I. A Liberator Abraham Lincoln

2. Surprises Children Santa Claus

3. Wrote Sonnets William Shakespeare
4. Clever Comedian , Charlie Chaplin

5. Sometimes Wore Raincoat Sir Walter Raleigh
6. Great Warrior George Washington
7. Writes Words Walter Winchell

8. Betrayed Army Benedict Arnold

9

0.

Refreshments—Last, But Not Least!

The refreshment table may be sectioned off with
little placards indicating different college courses

(Continued on page 581)

Volley Ball in I944

HEN A HIGH ranking

Naval officer returned

from a recent recrea-
tional and physical education
inspection tour of the Pacific
area, he reported that softball
and volley ball took t0p honors
in popularity and participation
with the United States armed
forces. Most large ships and
all carriers are the locale for
regular games and matches. He further reported
that it was not at all uncommon to see a volley
ball court hacked into the dense jungle and hot
matches in progress wherever a group of United
States men were assembled. Volley ball has also
played an important role in the recreation pro-
gram in most officer candidate schools and regular
training camps. Literally millions of players have
turned to the game for enjoyment and compan-
ionship. While many people are learning to play
and enjoy the game, very few are learning to play
it well. What can be done about it?

It was with this question in mind, plus the
knowledge that the usual national volley ball tour-
naments are out for the duration, that the United
States Volley Ball Association did some special
planning at its annual meeting last June.

“We need a wartime substitute for our regular
national championships that will focus attention on
physical fitness, playing skill, and appreciation of
the game, will provide recreational release and
make it possible to determine national champions
without having persons travel on crowded trains
or use a pint of gas or an ounce of precious rub-
ber,” said Dr. George J. Fisher, president of the
United States Volley Ball Association.

A special committee was named and given Dr.
Fisher’s specifications to use in designing such an
event. The results of the committee’s work is ex-
plained in the new 1944 Volley Ball Guide just off
the press, published by A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, 67 \Vest 44th Street, New York City—called
“The 1944 National Volley Ball Skills Meet.” In
brief it is a stay-at-home contest scheduled for the
month of March 1944 designed to measure play-
ing skill objectively, and is open to civilians of all
ages, nine years old and up-——men and women,

548

By HAROLD T. FRIERMOOD

Secretary -
United States Volley Ball Association

If you wish to enter thissfay-at-home.
volley ball contest. use the blank to
be found in the new Volley Ball

Guide. or secure a blank from H. T.

Friermood. Room 807. 347 Madison
Avenue. New York l7. New York.

boys and girls———as well as for
members of the armed forces.
There is no limit to the num-
ber of participants from any
school, club, organization, or
camp. Competition is on a
classified basis: Preps: 9-10—
11 years; Juniors: 12-13-14
years; Intermediates: 15-16-
17 years; Seniors: 18-35 ; Vet-
erans: 36 and up.

The events to be used are: (1) Serving; (2)
Set-up; (3) Passing; (4) Recovery from the
net; (5) Vertical jump; (6) Knowledge of the
rules.

A definite basis of objectively scoring the events
makes it possible to score a perfect 600 points, but
it is doubtful if any-—even the great and renowned
in volley ball circles—will achieve this record._

How to Enter

It is a simple matter to enter.

1. Get others interested from your school, club,
playground, college, factory, church, Army, Navy,
Marine, or Air Corp unit, Y.M.C.A., Scout troop,
Y.W.C.A., boys’ club, or other organizations.

Select a responsible adult to serve as your club
manager to handle your records, entry fee, corre-
spondence and other matters. (A regular coach,
athletic instructor, athletic officer, or official repre-
sentative is best.)

2. Send your entry blank in not later than
February 15, 1944, and indicate how many indi-
vidual score cards you will want. A separate score
card is needed for each contestant. (The score
cards may be printed or mimeographed by your
club if you prefer not to purchase the regulation
cards that have been prepared purely as a con-
venience.) The entry fee (one dollar per club for
any number of teams or individuals) must accom-
pany your club entry blank to complete your of-
ficial entry. Send your entry blank and fee to:
Secretary, U. S. Volley Ball Association.

3. You will receive an acknowledgement of your
entry and an official 1944 participation certificate.

4. Your local competition may be staged any
time during the month of March 1944.

(Continued on page 580)

RECREATION

Merit Awards in the Recreation Program

HE MERIT AWARD plan may be
briefly described as a con--
tract-like system of tests or
challenges undertaken voluntarily

by children. Each test is
called a merit when it is suc-
cessfully completed and each
merit requires definite per-
formance. In ourplan merits
were set up in games, crafts,
dramatics, music, participa-
tion, and volunteer service.
Each one of these categories
contained a minimum of ten
fundamental merits peculiar
to the particular activity. A
point value of ten was at-
tached to each merit suc-
cessfully passed.

The Games Program

In the games program the
following merits were listed :

Checkers

Chess

Caroms
Dominoes
Anagrams
Flinch

Old Maid
Hearts

Five Hundred
Chinese Checkers

Games may, of course, be added to this list to
suit an indoor or an outdoor program. The re-

quirements for successfully passing a game merit

we re 1

1. Identify the parts used in the game.
2. Explain the idea of the game.
3. Know the rules of :the game.

4. Play ten different opponents and win six out of

ten games.

5. Play in a tournament for that game.

Arts and Crafts
The craft program included the following merits :

Basketry Cardboard construction
Bead craft Carving

Block printing Crayonexing
Bookbinding Drawing

JANUARY 1944

By MICHAEL E. WARGO Embioidery Paper craft
- - mttlng Pin making
Director of Recreation Reed and rama Plaster of Paris
Clalrton. Pennsylvania Sand Crafts modeling
Shipm;?::1:fft Poster making
Woodwork Leathercraft
. . R ak'

For many years recreation executives have Scrap§°°ks Brigg mg
been interested in the possibilities which £0“!ng Stone Garvin
lie in the use of merit awards. There has Headlevfork W . g
always. however. been a difference of opin- * Ofie! 31mm“ eavmg ,

Painting Waftie weavmg

ion regarding the value of the system for
the playground program.

Mr. Wargo. who has experimented with
the plan for three years, feels it has definite
values. and he presents them. with details of
operation. in this article which won the first
place in the I943 Joseph Lee Memorial
Contest for Recreation Literature of the
Society of Recreation Workers of America.

The National Recreation Association will
be glad to learn of the experiences of other
cities with this plan. and to receive com-
ments and suggestions regarding it.

Bridge
Parchesi
Pick-Up-Sticks
Table tennis

A craft merit was earned
when a craft object was
completed with a passing
rating of 1.5. The one point
was given for completing
the object and the decimal
.5 was used to designate the
minimum degree of skill
reflected in the completed
object. Judgment of skill
was based upon the age of
the youngster and his ability

at the particular stage of growth. Any rating

below 1.5 was not passing.

In the. dramatic category the following skills

Jacks Drama
Rope jumping

Hopscotch _

O’Leary were set up in the contract:

Knife baseball

Mumlblety_Peg Listen to a story.

Demonstrate fundamental facial expressions.

pression.
Tell a story.
Do a Charade.
Do a pantomime._

Demonstrate fundamental body and facial expressions.
Demonstrate fundamental feelings through vocal ex-

Participate in a short skit.

Dramatize a story.

Act in a play.

Act in a one-act play.

Demonstrate any other skill suited to dramatics.

Fundamental expressions were listed as joy, anger,
fear, surprise, horror, pleasure, disgust, pain, sor-
row, enjoyment, kindness, confidence, anxiety,
laughter. A merit was earned by successfully
passing any one of the above tests.

549

550 MERIT AWARDS IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

 

Music

The music program presented

the following requirements:

Sing first verse of “The Star-Spangled Banner.”
Sing first verse of “America.”

Hum or whistle a tune.

Beat out the rhythm of a song.
Demonstrate leading 2/4 time.
Demonstrate leading 3/4 time.
Demonstrate leading 4/4 time.

Lead a group in singing.

Participate in group singing.

Participate with song in a special event.
Sing in a choral group.

Make a musical instrument.

Play a musical instrument.

Others may be added if desired. A merit was

earned by successfully passing any one of the re—
quirements.

The Volunteer Program

In the participation contract these were the re-
quirements :

Patricipation in parties

St. Valentine’s Day Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day Thanksgiving
May Day Christmas

Participation in special events
t 8.:- planned iiy instructors at indoor or outdoor centers)
Participation in tournament

(as planned by instructors at indoor or outdoor centers )

\ merit was earned ny participating in any of the above.

Drama. as well as games. music. arts
and crafts and other activities. has
a part in Clairton's merit award plan

Courtesy East Orange, ~N. 1., Board of Recreation Commissioner:

The following merits were
listed in the volunteer pro—

gram :

Take charge of cloak room.

Take charge of door desk.

Take charge of hallway.

Take charge of toilet facilities.

Take charge of game supplies.

Take charge of game room.

Assist teacher in three different parties.
Assist in three different tournaments.
Issue supplies.

Supervise sandbox.

Clean up grounds.

Supervise swings. I
Supervise slide.

Line off play areas.

Supervise a game.

Assist with street showers.

Assist with registration.

Assist with special events.

Assist with tournaments.

Assist with athletic contests.

Teach new game, craft, or other activity to a group.

This list can be altered to suit any situation. A
merit was earned by attending to the duty desig-
nated for a definite length of time. Passing only
ten merits was required.

Some Details of the Plan

In our system of merit awards we had two
courses open to each child. According to the first,

' RECREATION

MERIT AWARDS IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM 551 I,

he might earn as many merits as he chose to earn
in any one category of play and score ten points
for each merit. Upon the completion of ten merits
and the simultaneous earning of one hundred
points the child was awarded an Achievement
Gertificate which denoted his accomplishment.
Thus any child could develop a deeper interest in
any category of play.

The second course Open to the child was that of
leadership development through progressive ad-
vancement in all six categories of play simultan-
eously. For this phase we ad0pted the following
degrees of rank in leadership:

(I) Cub

(a) He must enroll in the leaders corps.

(-b) He must take the play pledge: “I promise to
play fair, play square, and play hard. I
promise to keep myself physically strong,
morally straight, and mentally awake. I
promise to respect my teacher, my home, my
community, and my country.”

(c) He must demonstrate the correct use of all
apparatus.

((1) He must write an essay on safety on the
play area.

(2) Cadet

He must score a total of 30 points in each
of the six categories of play. I

(3) Junior

He must score an additional 30 points in
each of the six categories of play.

(.4) Senior

He must score an additional 40 points in the
categories of play.

The attainment of each level of leadership rank

was rewarded with a leadership certificate awarded
at the completion of each rank.

The merit award plan was formulated with four
definite objectives in mind: namely, to make the
recreation program educational as well as recrea-
tiOnal, to develop leadership

grounds today. Our training of them should begin
at the present time. By giving them opportunity
to learn and do things now we would be reaping
the harvest in the future. In addition we felt that

. every child on the playground today would be the

voter of tomorrow. If we could create the proper
attitudes toward recreation today, we would not
need to fear the future as to citizen support.

We Found It Worked!

The merit award plan of achievement was first
tried in 1941 on the summer playgrounds. Some
of our staff thought that the plan was too “com-

‘plicated” and “heavy” for the children. We de-

cided to experiment. Four playgrounds, designated
“Negatives,” were to Operate without the plan and
four, designated as “Positives,” were to operate
with the plan as an addition to their regular pro-
gram. These were our observations at the end of
the year:

A. “Positive” playgrounds enjoyed a better season in
activities than did the “Negatives.”

B. We were able to measure the results of the program
on the “Positive” group of grounds. “Negatives”
reported in vague terms. For instance, “Positives”
reported a total of 1,281 craft objectives completed,
whereas “Negatives” stated that many objects never
reached the completed stage. “Positives” also re-
pOrted that 311 merits were successfully passed in
music. In addition “Positives” reported that 122
achievement certificates were issued in crafts, 38 in
dramatics and 19 in music. These refiected concrete

results.

(3. Achievement certificates were well received. Many
parents had them framed for the children. As one
parent put it, “I feel as though my. boy accom—
plished something on the playground .this summer.”

The leadership development aspect was added to
the merit award in the following year. Instructors
reported that this appealed to children inasmuch as

they became leaders on the

in youngsters who would be
the future citizens of the
community, to measure ob-
jectively the results of the
recreation program, and pro-
vide the element of progres—
sive development through
participation in the program
of activities.

We felt that our future
play leaders in the commu-
nity would have to be drawn
from the youth on our play-

lANUARY 1944

In connection with his presentation of the
subject of merit awardsl Mr. Wargo points
out that the plan may offer one approach
to the problem every director of recrea-
tion faces in educating the citizens of a
community to the values of the recreation
program. in developing an appreciation of
its importanceI and in measuring more ob-
jectively its results. The way in which the
approach to this fundamental problem is
made is necessarily determined by local
conditions' but in Clairton the use of the
merit awards proved a helpful part of the
program of making the public conscious
of the significance of public recreation.

.\

grounds and acted as vol-
unteers. In addition the par-
ticipation and volunteer
aspects of the plan were put
into greater use. The re- ‘
sponse to the plan was en-
couraging. It was evident,
however, that the success of
the plan depends upon the
ability and the personality
of the instructors them-
selves. This last is an im-

(Continued on page 578)

Ohio Cities l-lold Recreation Referendums

N ELECTION DAY in No-
0 vember 1943, residents
of a number of cities in
Ohio went to the polls and
there registered their ap-
proval, or disapproval, of tax tax levy

levies in support of local rec-

reation programs.
At Niles, which had had a

record of four earlier success-
ful recreation tax levies, the
.2 mill tax levy was again voted to cover the period
of the next five years. For passage the issue re-
quired a favorable vote of 65 per cent of those
voting on it. The Niles voters showed their genu-
ine appreciation by giving the levy a 74 per cent
favorable vote. Because of war conditions, the
usual house-to-house canvass could not be made,
but friends of the recreation program worked
through their friends, and the various civic or-
ganizations, the churches, and the press strongly
endorsed the work of the Department. On the
same ballot was a .5 mill levy for the work of the
Park Department. This received a 71 per cent
favorable vote.

A new year-round Department of Recreation
had been created earlier in the year at Norwood.
This city put its first recreation tax levy before

the voters as part of an over—all levy for general .

school purposes. In Ohio this type of levy requires
for passage only a simple majority of the votes
cast, and the voters gave their hearty approval of
the entire school and recreation levy with a 60
per cent favorable vote. This levy runs for five
years and will provide approximately $12,000 an-
nually for the new recreation program.

Columbus was the scene of the third successful
referendum which did not involve the question of a
levy. The issue here was whether or not the
voters would adopt an amendment to the city char-
ter establishing a recreation commission with
power and safeguarding recreation from possible
political control. The amendment was adopted by
a 70 per cent favorable vote, 65 per cent being
required for adoption.

At Massillon, where a limited recreation pro-
gram has been operated under a recreation board
for many years, a .2 mill recreation tax levy was
placed before the voters by the Board of Educa-

552

In the I943 November elections. three
cities in Ohio voted favorably on rec-
reation referendums. and a fourth made
such a good showing that the issue was
cared for independently of the election
outcome. In a fifth city. a recreation_
had been successfully voted in
August. The net result of the elections
in Ohio will be encouraging to cities
which may be planning to submit the
issue of a tax levy to their citizens.

tion under emergency legis-
lation limiting the period of
the levy to two years. The
enthusiastic friends of recrea-
tion declared the levy passed
as more than 'a simple ma-
jority of the voters gave their
approval. It was found after
election day, however, that
due to a technical misunder-
standing in the preparation
of the levy-sponsoring resolution, a 65 per cent
favorable vote was legally required and that the
levy had therefore actually failed to pass. The
Board of Education, knowing that a majority of
the voters had favored the issue, made available a
recreation budget of approximately the amount
that would have been yielded by the tax levy if
passed.

Canton, having failed by a very narrow margin .
in November 1942 to pass a .2 mill recreation tax
levy for a five-year period, placed the issue before
the voters again at the primaries in August 1943,
as permitted by emergency legislation. This time
the period of the levy was limited by law to two
years but only a simple majority was required for
passage instead of the 65 per cent required in
November 1942. Canton citizens gave the recrea-
tion program an enthusiastic vote of confidence
with a favorable vote of 74.6 per cent.

Ohio cities which voted on recreation tax levies
at the November election but failed to secure the
required number of votes were Hamilton, Mans—
field, and Springfield.

It is hoped that in 1944 the efforts of those
cities which failed last fall will be rewarded with
completely successful results.

From time to time articles have appeared in
RECREATION which give the details of the plan of
organization and promotion of referendum cam-
paigns in a number of communities. Among these
are the following: “They Voted Yes for Recrea-
tion,” which is the story of campaigns in Battle
Creek, Michigan; Canton, Ohio; and Parkersburg,
West Virginia; and “For the Price of a Single
Movie!”-—-the account of the successful referen-
dum in Decatur, Illinois, with the step—by-step
methods used in its promotion.

RECREATION

 

G

Fun and Fitness for Kansas .City Women

ANSAS CITY WOMEN have
literally been put back on
their feet since the develop-

ment of their own physical fit-
ness. program. Women of all ages and all types of
employment are taking part in this activity which
was developed as a part of the city’s civilian de—
fense through the cooperation of the Recreation
Division of the Welfare Department, the Women’s
Chamber of Commerce, and business organiza-
tions through their personnel departments.

Four hundred and fifty women crowded into the
Little Theater of the municipal auditorium for the
first meeting of the physical fitness group early in
1942. Later the Arena of the auditorium was
taken over for the weekly meetings which were
held at 7 :30 on Tuesday evenings. More than 1,000
women have been known to attend a single meet-
ing of the group.

Although the Arena was an ideal place for the
meetings, it was not always available and the
group had to meet in the two gymnasiums of the
VVestport Junior High School. ‘When spring came
many of the meetings were held out of doors under
lights. Occasionally special
sessions were held with mem-
bers of army units in the city,
and the men and women
marched and drilled together.

JANUARY 1944

Kansas City

By HAYES A. RICHARDSON

Director of Welfare
Kansas City. Missouri

The business and professional women of
take their physical fitness
problems seriously. but they manage to
have plenty of fun at the same time.

The group took part in the ana
nual Playground Festival and
the Labor Day Civilian Defense
Parade. After the parade, they
gave a demonstration for the crowd of approxi-
mately 50,000 people and made an impressive
picture in their distinctive physical fitness uniforms
with the Civilian Defense emblem.

\Vomen from practically every large business
and industrial unit in Kansas City take part in
these physical fitness get-togethers. The two and
a half hour meetings are intended to provide rec-
reation and relaxation—not a reducing program.
The women go through marching maneuvers, calis-
thenic drills, and army routines as well as a pro—
gram of group singing, folk dancing, and games
and sports. Members often meet for such extra-
curricular fun as roller skating, bicycle riding, and
group hiking.

Special attention has been given to the training
of leaders—leaders from within the group who
help direct the program and can act as leaders in
cases of emergency. We all realize that there are
many extra duties formerly handled by men that
must be taken care of by the
women who remain at home.
The business and professional
women of Kansas City, and
the housewives as well, are

553

554 FUN AND FITNESS FOR KANSAS CITY WOMEN

becoming more physically fit in order that they
may take over the extra duties and endure the

longer hours of work and more strenuous tasks _

made necessary by wartime demands, and at the
same time preserve the zest for living and the
buoyancy that are the by-products of good health.

The objective of this program is, therefore, to
provide both enjoyment through recreation and,
as an end product, physically fit women. It has
been emphasized throughout that the program
must be carried out with precision——orders are to
be given and taken quickly. At no time have ac-
tivities been haphazard and unorganized, but rather
they are planned, coordinated, and carried out
with dispatch for the women recognize the serious-
ness of the need for better physical development.

The objectives of the program might be sum-
marized as follows:

I. To improve the physical fitness of business
and professional women whose duties during
the day largely curtail much needed physical
exercise.

2. To promote sociability and neighborliness
within the group in order that they may be
able to provide a united front in case of
emergency.

3. To promote good health through the medium
of various corrective and conditioning exer-
cises.

4. To serve as a morale builder.

5. T o cooperate with all other civilian defense
units in an integrated program.

The citizens of Kansas City have found this
group to be very attractive and it has, in turn,
received considerable public attention. The pro-
gram was organized and conducted by Les VVar-
ren, superintendent of public recreation, assisted
by Miss Genette Moeller, chief recreation super-
visor, and Mrs. Martha Franklin, president of the
\Vomen’s Chamber of Commerce. A large part
of the success of the venture has, of course, been
due to the continuous interested work and man-
agement of Mrs. Franklin. She persuaded the per-
sonnel department and executives of various firms
to publicize the program, and many of the execu-
tives have since participated in the group.

For example, an executive of one of the large
stores of ladies’ apparel has become interested and
has interested the department store girls in the
fitness program. Representatives of the public
utilities, factories, chain stores, and concerns em-
ploying a large number of clerical workers have

assisted in both the promotion and participation
features of the program.

In addition to the white program a Negro pro—
gram was set up at the Lincoln High School,
directed by Mrs. Lena J. O’Neal. It proved to be
fairly successful, although it did not continue to
run beyond the Winter and spring months.

Physical fitness classes are also being organized
this year for men' in two divisions—first, those
who are out of school and will soon be inducted
into the armed services and, second, middle-aged
men who will have a somewhat modified program.

The women’s classes disbanded during the sum-
mer months and were reorganized the first of
November. Extracts from a radio broadcast de-
scribe the reactions of several of the women to
this two year old fitness program:

One participant said, “In this war the civilian
population is being molested, and to maintain
morale and courage all must be physically fit, par-
ticularly the women in business.” Another young
women from a clothing factory stated that “the
opportunity to mix with other women was a fine
opportunity for factory women to meet women in
business,”_ and she left the feeling that only in a
democracy such as we know could this friendliness
exist. Much the same idea was expressed by an
executive of a large store who stated that such an
evening gave those participating what they were
seeking—harmony, good will, and a united Ameri-
can womanhood.

Kansas City has been a pioneer in this very
vital war activity of helping citizens to develop
physically so that they may beable to withstand
hardships. At the same time, the fitness program
has been so well carried out by Mr. Warren and
Miss Moeller that the women enjoyed the activi-
ties. Throughout the program has run the idea
that to combat the destructiveness in the world
today, we must develop our own constructive
methods.

“For some time ahead, life for all of us will be
a war of nerves. Events will strain us, and burdens
grow heavier. To acquire the strength and poise
to stand the stress we shall have to do the things
that make for physical health and think the things
that make for mental health. Part of this whole-
some regime, which is open to all, is to know the
spring of the turf beneath our feet, and the bene-
diction of the open sky upon our heads.”—-—W. J.

Cameron talking on “Sports” at a Ford Sunday
Evening Hour.

RECREATION

 

Recreation and Industry

trial recreation has not

been spectacular. N u—
merous programs, sound
in concept, have been con—
ducted quietly over a per—
iod of years by different
industries. In many of
them the athletic type of
activities has largely pre—
dominated, no doubt be—
cause of the leadership and
facilities available. On the
whole, such programs have been sponsored not for
publicity purposes but for the beneiit of the em—
ployees.

A few facts regarding the development of in—
dustrial recreation should be noted:

I. Programs have been inaugurated with the in-
crease of companies and their growth.
Administration has usually been the respon—
sibility of a person untrained in recreation.
Democratic programming has resulted from
cooperation of employee groups. Boards, com—
mittees and volunteers usually function in the
organization.

4. Tax supported facilities, as well as those pro—

vided by each company, have been utilized.

5. Generally such programs have helped to better

employer-employee relationships.

6. The majority of such programs have been

sponsored financially by the company.

The future of industrial recreation is bright.
However, it presents a realistic challenge—a chal—
lenge to management, to the employee, and par-
ticularly to recreation leadership.

Recreation has come to be recognized as a posi—
tive social factor. And, of course, any sound pro-
gram conceived for its own value has undeniable
by—products. As a result, today many realize the
importance and relationship of health, safety,
morale, social adjustment and education in the
daily routine of living together. A management,
however, that sponsors recreation as a salve for
other gross inequalities is subject to criticism.
Similarly, labor union organization attempts to
“ride the coattails” of a program for purposes of
subterfuge or politics are unethical.

THE HISTORY of indus—

Ex)

0.)

IANUARY 1944

By RoiiERT A. TURNER

A number of people have asked us why there
aren't more articles on industrial recreation in
RECREATION. The answer to that is that prac-
tically no articles on the subject reach us. And
so we are very glad to publish this article by
Mr. Turner. who is doing a most interesting
piece of work as Coordinator, Department of
Community RecreationI West Point Manufac-
turing Company, Lanett. Alabama. Mr.Turner's
manuscript won second place in the Joseph Lee
Memorial Contest for Recreation Literature. can we have it :9” The

Where sincerity of pur—
pose exists, when the en—
lightened cooperation of
management and employee
is present, then the recre—
ation administrator has a
great opportunity. In other
words, when management
and the employee say,
“Here, we want recrea—
tion! What is it and how

answer the professional
recreation worker gives will determine the success
or failure of the proposed program. Not only the
answer in principle but also in practice. The line
of organization, type of administration, scope of
program, principles and objectives, leadership
standards—“these and similar factors are all—im—
portant. Naturally, the inauguration of sound pro-
grams will influence the future trend of industrial
recreation. 6
There are certain fundamental principles in rec-
reation- that are universally recognized. Intelli-
gent application of these principles is the respon—
sibility of trained leadership. How they may be
successfully integrated in an industrial recreation
program is shown by the following example:

How One Company Tackled the Problem

A manufacturing company with plants in five
adjacent communities became interested in launch—
ing a recreation program. Management had always
been conscious of its responsibility for the general
welfare of the workers. As a result of an inten—
sitied athletic program over a period of years, the
question was asked: “To what extent does this
program reach our people?” The answer was not
satisfactory, and the company went about the task
of finding out what was needed and desired.

Centralized Administration. As a result a trained
and experienced worker in the field of recreation
was employed to organize and administer a pro—
gram. This man was told by management, “The
job is yours. We don’t know “anything about rec—
reation but we want a comprehensive and adequate
program for our people. We will give you all the
cooperation you want and we will expect in return

555

556 RECREATION AND INDUSTRY

’5

the best you can produce. Subsequently a recre-
ation department was established as a separate unit
directly responsible to top management.

Leadership and Training. Recreation personnel
was employed by the department to function in
each of the five communities. In most instances
selections were made from local residents, except
where there were no qualified individuals. Most
of the local persons retained had teaching or simi-
lar experience and had resided in the communities
for a number of years. In-service training was in-
augurated and the leader-personnel group was
brought together at regular weekly intervals for a
discussion course in the theory and practice of
recreation.

Community Emphasis. Five community depart-
ments were established and organized as separate
units. Each local program varied as it reflected
the desires and interests of the people in the indi-
vidual community. The organization of neighbor-
hood units was stressed. Recreation took its place
in each village along with schools, churches and
other organizations. The close affiliation of the rec-
reation program with existing agencies from the
beginning was of mutual benefit.

Occasionally music, dramatics, socials, and
sports were organized to bring together partici-
pants from the different communities. Administra—
tion and supervision were centered in the depart-
mental office.

Leadership. Specialists in music, dramatics, and
home economics were retained to develop these
fields of interest. Through planning with each local
director their services were. correlated with the
community program.

An efficient recreation leader can multiply the
strength of his leadership many times through the
encouragement and use of volunteer service. It is
estimated that 85 per cent.of the activities spon-

sored in our communities were conducted by vol—
unteers.

Utilizing Available Facilities. Under this type of
program, facilities used previously by athletic
teams only are now available for community use.
A gymnasium formerly ac—
commodating two basketball
teams is now shared by happy
groups of hundreds of young-
sters streaming in and out all
day long. Old and young
gather here in large numbers
to dance. Craft groups meet

It is a matter of regret that limita-
tions of space do not permit of our
publishing Mr. Turner's introduction
to his subiect in which he discusses
the importance of recreation for all
and urges its provision as an essen-
tial part of the lives of people.

regularly. Music and dramatics are often found
vying with each other other for space.

Baseball fields are used for play days, circuses,
pageants, field days or special events. Swimming
pools have “Learn to Swim” weeks, water carni-
vals, and advanced swimming classes. Tennis
courts, of necessity, are utilized for badminton, pad-
dle tennis, croquet and goal-hi. Shaded nooks have ‘
been converted into tot lots or picnic areas. De-
serted fields have become play lots and meeting
spots where natural neighborhood groups gather
with the recreation leader.

Athletics. Athletics have a proper place in this
program. However, the amateur has replaced the
professional, and many spectators have come out
of the stands as participation became the keynote.
At first spectator interest dwindled but now it has
been re-established as mother or dad, sister or
brother have come to see relatives and friends per—
form. Fathers are as much interested and concerned
with their boys’ progress in boxing as is the coach.
“These are our boys—our folks,” they say. The
club basketball team of the former “athletic era”
has been replaced by community leagues for boys,
girls, men, and women. Boys and men who for-
merly had to pay admissions to the ball park now
vie with each other for positions on the team.

Democratic Programming. Advisory recreation
committees, established in each community, share
with the local director the problems of planning.
Suggestions and criticisms are made on program
activities. A new idea is not inaugurated unless it
has been previously talked over. The program is
not the director’s responsibility alone but belongs
to the group. Dancing and bridge, which at one
time were thought questionable,I now, through this
procedure, have won the community approval.

integration. This particular recreation program
is not a formalized process. 'From the' start
churches, schools and other organizations have
been invited to use the facilities of the department.
There is no pressure on the department to label

its wares. Many times departmental activities and

services have been correlated or even absorbed by
other agencies The commu-
nity type of organization has
greatly facilitated this condi-
tion and has made possible
programs which, under other'
circumstances, would be lost in
a maze of organizational dif-
ficulties.

_. RECREATION

RECREATION AND INDUSTRY 557

The Program

Thus activity planning for this five-town setup
has its origin in two sources: in the employed per-
sonnel and in lay groups. It is natural that the
resulting program should include a wide range of
activities. Social, dramatic, musical, and athletic
interests are all included in varying phases. Sev-
eral unique projects are worthy of mention.

The churches have cooperated in holding regu-

larly scheduled community prayer meetings or
vesper services that have more than doubled their

ordinary attendance. An Armistice Day parade
and program resulted in one of the largest gath-
erings ever recorded. A music festival, including
jug bands, combined church choirs, a dance or-
chestra, glee clubs, and solo and duet vocalists,
packed to capacity one of the largest ball parks.
Over 200 men and boys were enrolled in boxing.
Bouts staged twice weekly drew an average of 600
Spectators while 1,500 attended the annual cham—
pionships. In the music and dramatic programs
thousands of persons have witnessed the perform-
ances of hundreds of participants. At several
schools physical education groups are conducted
by departmental personnel.

Participation is in direct ratio to the variety of
activities included. The wider the range of inter-
ests, the more peOple participate.

A comprehensive program of activities for youth
has attracted the majority of young people in each
community. Parents are grateful for the activities
offered their children, realizing that their young-
sters are getting something they themselves missed.
They also recognize the fact that the physical and
mental foundation for future adulthood and citi—

zenship is being laid.

The opportunity for old and young couples to
mingle together in a wholesome social environment
is of immeasurable value to the community.

Girl leaders have greatly encouraged the par-
ticipation of women and girls in the program.
Clubs with a service motto have been formed.
Physical fitness has replaced the outmoded reduc-
ing objective. Singing and acting have reawakened
old interests. Tap classes are pOpular. The women
are taking part.

A recreation program, like a mirror or barome-
ter, should reflect the environmental conditions
affecting the lives of our people. The sound rec—

(Continued on page 584)

"Music and morale go hand in hand"

 

JANUARY 1944

Courtesy George Peabody College for Teachers

l-le Works To Prevent Delinquency

LARENCE Janus, who is
chief of police in Sullivan,
Illinois, became inter-

ested in boys’ work long before
he accepted his present position. During the de-
pression he helped organize a club for boys the
purpose of which was to obtain work for some
boys and help equip others with clothes and -other
personal effects so that they might remain 1n
school. Working with him in this project was Mr.

T. J. Burns, pastor of the
Presbyterian Church, who
was very much interested in
Boy Scouts.

The first project they
started Was collecting old
papers, rags and junk. They
borrowed a truck, collected
this material and sold it to a
local dealer. The money was
used by the boys themselves.
Individuals became interested
and Mr. Janes used his home
as a clearing house to obtain
work for the boys. Members
of the community cooperated
by having their lawns mowed,
ashes carried out and other
odd jobs by members of the
club. In order to teach the
boys good workmanship, Mr.
James inspected each job to
see that it was properly completed.

When Mr. Janes became chief of police in Sul-
livan, he found several local boys committing a
number of petty crimes, and began to interest him-
self in their problem. He has spent considerable
time in becoming acquainted with the individual
child, the child’s home and their relationship to the
community. He sends valen-
tines to the boys and girls on
Valentine’s Day and birthday
greetings on their birthday.

A typical example of Mr.
Janes’ work is found in the
story of a fifteen-year-old boy b
from another community who
was discovered sleeping in an

old shed. Mr. Janes bought

558

By ARTHUR D. BRUNK

Division for Delinquency Prevention
Illinois Department of Public Welfare

 

CLARENCE JANES

Sullivan, Illinois. is an average county
seat community with a population of
about 3,000. Agriculture and the
manufacture of shoes are the chief
industries. One of the town's assets
is a chief of police who believes that
y a careful study of the individ-
ual child and the establishment .of
friendly relations with him much can be
clone to combat juvenile delinquency.

him some new clothes, and
after three days convinced him
he should return to the Catho-
lic priest in his home town.
The boy was placed in a Catholic Orphans’ Home
where he remained for six months. He was re-
leased to work on a farm during the summer
months. Recently the boy returned to Sullivan to
thank the chief of police and the merchants for
helping him.

Sullivan’s chief of police is .
a firm believer in a good
home, believing that nearly
all of the difficulty is with the
parents rather than the child,
and that the child has been
neglected by the home before
he becomes the problem of
the police. Mr. Janes has
been successful in obtaining
convictions of parents for
neglecting their children and
has brought to the attentiOn
of the community sources of
juvenile delinquency which
need to be removed by com-
munity action.
_ There are no slot machines
or punch boards in Sullivan.
In order to teach the boys
and girls safety first, Mr.
Janes solicited the coopera-
tion of the theater owner and gave tickets to boys
and girls for practicing safety around the square.
He never overlooks an opportunity to speak to the
children or meet them on their playgrounds. Some

. difficulty in the past with air rifles has been stopped

by the organization of target practice teams under
the supervision of the Police Department. The
boys are taught the dangers _of
air rifles as well as their care.
They have a lot of fun shoot-
ing with the chief of police.
Recently a boy was reported
stealing small articles from the
local merchants. Mr. Janes sent
word through one of the boy’s
friends for him to call at the

(Continued on page 584)

RECREATION

l-low Shall We Curb Delinquency?

E MUST DEAL with boy and girl delinquents
w individually, but in doing so we must realize

that we are not getting at the source of the
trouble. Individual treatment of delinquents in
Columbus, as in other large cities, has failed to
bring about any great reduction in delinquency.
Decade after decade there is an 'endless stream of
juvenile delinquents coming into court.

If we would eliminate delinquency, we must .
make great changes in the social and economic F

conditions in those neighborhoods where delin-
quency is the highest. Studies in many different
cities have proven conclusively that even when one
nationality group moves out of a high delinquency
neighborhood and a different nationality group
moves in, the delinquency rate remains the same.
We know from the facts gathered in scores of
cities that the delinquency-producing conditions
belong to the neighborhood rather than to the de-
linquent boy or girl.

We think of delinquent boys and girls as being
abnormal and antisocial. Actually they are often
well adjusted to the neighborhood or group in
terms of what the neighborhood or group expects
of them. The neighborhood furnishes them the
model and gives the incentive for the delinquency
pattern. It gives them recognition and reward. It
affords them protection. It furnishes them with
the principles of right and wrong in behavior, the
socially-approved pattern of character, conduct,
prestige, and social relations.

Our high delinquency neighborhoods are disor-
ganized neighborhoods where a group or gang
sets up its standards and supplants the conven-
tional standards of the neighborhood, community,
and the city as a whole. Hence, it is the group
and the neighborhood as a whole with which we
must deal if we would eliminate delinquency. Low
income is a major factor; low opportunity for en-
joyable play and recreation is an enormous factor.
Boys and girls become delinquent because they are
hungry—hungry for security, for a sense of be-
longing, for achievement and recognition, for ad-
venture, for affection.

Facilities Must Be Provided

We can take an important step toward satisfy-
ing these hungers by the provision of recreation
activities made available by organized community

JANUARY 1944

By TAM DEERING

Director of Recreation
Cincinnati. Ohio

 

At the Columbus, Ohiol Town Meeting of
the Air held October 23rd. Mr. Deering
urged the residents of that city to increase
their recreation areas through neighborhood
planning. ln another article in this issue at-
tention is called to the tact that in the last
election citizens of Columbus voted to adopt
an amendment to the city charter establish-‘
ing a recreation commission with power.

 

service. For example, the hunger for achievement
and recognition can most easily be satisfied through
giving opportunity to excel in athletics, dramatics,
arts, crafts, dancing, music, nature activities. Boys
and girls must excel in something. If they cannot
make home runs, we must see to it that they have
a chance to be heroes in amateur dramatics. Every
child must have play facilities and activities suited
to his interests, aptitudes, and skills so that he can
excel in something.

The high delinquency neighborhood by itself
cannot provide the necessary recreation facilities
and leadership. The cost is too great. To make
adequate provision in the high delinquency neigh-
borhood, only the city as a whole, working in con-
junction with the neighborhood, can provide op-
portunity for play and recreation for every man
and woman and for every boy and girl.

Adequate provision for play and recreation
means furnishing the high delinquency neighbor-
hoods in Columbus with open Spaces more than
double that which it now provides in the low de-
linquency neighborhoods. There should be one
acre in park and recreation grounds for each 100
people according to national standards. In Colum-
bus there is now less than one-half acre of park
and recreation space for each 100 people in the
city as a whole, and in high delinquency neighbor-
hoods there are almost no recreation areas. Simi—
larly, the provision for school yards is inadequate.
Most elementary schools in the high delinquency
neighborhoods have less than 1% acres, barely

559 '

S60

enough for the building. The value of the school
dollar in Columbus could be doubled in educa—
tional returns on the investment if each elementary
school had the national standard area of 5 to 10
acres, and if each high s'Chool had 20 to 40 acres
and if all schools, especially in the high delin—
quency neighborhoods, were remodeled to make
them usable as community centers. And all school
grounds should have an abundance of trees and
grass turf to play on and space for real gardens
for children and parents.

Leadership is Indispensable

But it is even more important to provide in
every neighborhood, and especially in the high
delinquency neighborhoods,
the indispensable leadership
of competent, pro-'-
fessionally trained,
year—round play
leaders. Adequate
recreation leaders
must be not only
technically prepared
but they must be
capable of leader-
ship. They must
know how to or-
ganize people even
more than they
know” how to or-
ganize activities.
They must be able
to help the peOple
in the low delin—
quency neighbor-
hoods to organize
and participate not
only in play but in
the management of
recreation activities.
The competent rec-
reation leader re-
quired for the high
delinquency neigh—
borhoods must be
able to assist the
people in every
block to get together
and to choose their
block leaders. The
professionally train- V _ g _ a:
cd recreation lead-

r'w-u———---- - - " u' "" " ' '~

.\

i

‘4.
i!

It's more interesting and absorbing to be a
young scientist than a iuvenile delinquent!

 

Courtesy National Elementary Principal, N.E.A.

HOI-V SHALL WE CURB DELINQUENCY?

ers must furnish expert service to the block leaders
in mobilizing both adults and young people to help
in the development of the program as well as to
improve their own leisure-time activities, and to
develop lifelong habits of recreation for all. The
play leaders must advise and help the parents to
provide suitable play and recreation opportunities
at their own homes and at'their schools and recre-
ation areas for _themselves and for their children
according to their ages, interests, and aptitudes.

The skilled recreation leader’s job is not one
that can be done by those already overburdened
with the problem of landscape maintenance, nor
by the conventional classroom teachers. It is a
job to challenge the skill, leadership and ability
of the ablest people of a city.
It is a job that will require

adequate financing.
Indeed, it is doubt-
ful whether this
task can be accom-
plished satisfacto-
rily without an in—
dependent recrea-
tion board such as
has been created in
Cincinnati and in
the majority of
cities where pro—
vision~ for recreation
has been carried
furthest.

The development
of adequate munici-
pal recreation ser-
vice is recognized
throughout the
country as being a
task as difficult as
that of public edu—
cation. It cannot be
undertaken and car-
ried on as a routine
performance. It is
diFFicult to hnd ade-
quate personnel to
take charge of mu—
nicipal recreation.
There is not a suf-
ficient supply of

. competent directors,

 

\ (C omiimcd on

page 577)
RECREATION

 

 

Drama in Juvenile Delinquency Prevention

VERYONE has experienced
E the desire to dramatize.
It is universal. Browning
expressed the idea perfectly in his dramatic poem,

Saul, in which David says:
“Since my days are ordained to be passed with
my flocks,
Let me pe0ple, at least with my fancies, the
hills and the rocks,
Dream the life I am never to mix with, and

image the show
Of mankind as they live in those fashions I

never shall know.”

History records how David put those dreams
into action in his dramatic rise to power in the
Hebrew nation.

Today our young people are taking their dra-
matics vicariously, through ready-made movies,
which still, in spite of the censors, occasionally
mirror varied adult delin-
quencies. .

Even on our farms a mul—
tiplicity of electrical conveni—
ences obviates the necessity
for genuine initiative and for
muscular work vital to mind,
body, and spiritual develop-

JANUARY 1944

By GRACE SHULL EICHMANN
Visalial California

"Postwar Planning Committee" is the
inescapable headline in magazine and
newspaper today. Mrs. Eichmann urges
in this article that we add the head-
line. "Right-Now Committee to Combat
Juvenile Delinquency." and she adds
the fervent wish. "May

tee include a youth drama leader!"

ment. To be sure, out on the
farm calves still must be
taught to drink in the old-
time fashion—and that is one performance neces-
sitating struggle, sometimes imagination, too. But
how seldom are there colts to nurture, to train, to
ride, and drive—a real loss.

If we look with sympathetic insight into juve-
nile needs and the problem of youth delinquency,
we are forced to admit that we have not provided
these young people with the opportunities to meet
their human needs, to cultivate wholesome imagi-
nation and give it play. Youth have been drama—
tizing the undesirable thoughts we have permitted
them to nourish.

Recreation activities are being provided as never
before—athletics,handcraft, and others which call
for the use of the muscles, the hands, bodily move—
ment. But too little oppor-
tunity is given the child to
exercise his imagination in
spite of the fact that he wants
to imitate, to dramatize, be:
fore he wants to make things,

or to swim and compete in
games.

such a commit- -

563 '

564 DRAMA IN JUVENILE DELINQUENCY PREVENTION

We cherish the hope that
parents or adult friendsw—many
of them—-may be discovered
who will learn thrqugh experi-
ence the genuine fun and sat-
isfaction that may be theirs if
they give time and effort to
leading children and youth in dramatic groups.
We in Visalia know through experience, and as
suggestions to possible somewhat-at-a-loss folk
who want to experiment with the plan, here is
what we did.

We Began at Home

One j ust-before-ChristmasDay, Margaret, aged
ten, came from school and in a rather teary voice
asked, “Mama, why can’t I ever be in a play? The
same ones always are. I think I could do it.”

In January, a group of small friends helped
string a sheet in the archway between our music
room—their stagew—and our living room, their
audience chamber. Fun began for me as well as
the children. I read a poem and they thought up
ways of acting it. They organized and met each
Thursday after school—outdoors if weather per—
mitted, otherwise indoors. After a brief business
session, each in turn set her stage and directed the
play for which she had worked out at home the
action and characters from a poem she had drawn
by lot, Silver Pennies and other collections
proved adequate. The characters were fairies,
hikers, animals, or “just whoever.” She costumed
them from our cedar chest and closet stowaways.

In March, the “Jane Addams Actors” demon-
strated at our South Side PTA. Then another
mother started a group that included boys. “Robin
Hood” offered a vehicle for a third group, boys
only, who made clever paper puppets.

In May, the first group of sixteen girls staged
a backyard theater program—four dramatized
poems and a play, “Alpine Days,” written by
Margaret, Ruth, and Beatrice. It was based on
Heide, read recently by their teacher. The entire
program was beautifully done. Our “antique” barn
supplied background and dressing room. A large
bulb with galvanized tub reflector furnished grand
lighting from its position high in a walnut tree.
Stage scene properties were supplied by fathers
and neighbor boys. Five and ten cent admissions
paid expenses and put $7. 57 in a Creative Activity
Fund. Other groups staged frontyard and back-
yard plays delightfully.

in October, group one, now including boys,

We suggest that any of our readers
who may wish additional information
about the creative arts groups men-
tioned by Mrs. Eichmann consult her
.article in the October I940 issue of
RECREATION entitled "Still-Hunting."

staged “Children of the For-
est,” with dialogue and a poem

written by the members, at a
PTA family night. i

It Grew and Grew

The second year began with
ninety—two children in six groups and nine adult
leaders. All through the year, without tiring, they
played Indian, stressing straightness, grace, silence,
trailing, knowing wild life, and building line strong
tribes. In their meetings they practiced tribal
songs, dances, and ceremonies. They made beads,
weapons, and shields.

On a May evening the stage was set for an In-
dian pageant in the park fronting our Civic Audi-
torium. Our City Manager had supplied teams,
men, and trucks to haul extra greenery. The Rid-
ing Academy furnished a scout and a-1’ine horse.
A county supervisor rustled two covered wagons
and teams. The Power Company arranged light-
ing. Robbins Music House sent a piano. A small
actor had his pony and a travois he had made.

Then the weather man staged an unheard—of-in-
May electrical storm and downpour just when it
was time to leave our homes for the pageant.
What to do? Well, the minute the rain stopped,
fathers and older boys transferred properties, ex—
cept livestock and equipment, into the auditorium,
and the play went on with its 717 actors. Inevitable
disturbing confusion and noise resulted. But jol-
lity prevailed! Each episode was complete—I490,
Calm in Teppe Land. Games and industries.

I760—The Red Man sadly leaves his home, on
trail to new hunting grounds.

1820-Shoved back and back, he substitutes the
war path for the hunting trail. War paint on, he
attacks a pioneer camp, routs the whites. (You
can imagine the exuberant war wh00ps and the
boys’ delight!)

1932—Appreciation of Indian ceremonials, art,
and culture. This episode added interest through a
number put on by a real Navajo Indian in cos-
tume. The finale was the inspection by the audi—
ence and actors of a tribal art exhibit—fortunately
arranged at first in the auditorium—by local artists
who secured loans of exquisite pieces from private
collections in Tulare County.

Visalia is a rodeo town. The following month,
the Indians joined in the rodeo historical parade
with iive fiat wagons as stages for the live Indian
scenes, or date sequences.

(Continued on page 586)
RECREATION

The Recreation Center as a Musician Sees It

5 THE MACHINE does
more ,of the laborious
work done in the past

by hand, we shall all have
longer periods of leisure.
How shall we fill this free
time? Some will dissipate—
others will develop all their
faculties. Communities which
realize the value of culture
can create recreation cen—
ters to which we can all go
for amusement, sport. and for those who wish it,
education. These centers can cover a wide field—,—
touching the exploration of new ideas and tech-
niques at one end, and relaxation and recreation
at the other. Music can play its part in all of this.
These recreation centers will be like large parks,
some parts of which will have tall trees and gar—
dens—others flat places for sports—others water
for swimming, rowing, sailing. There will be an
auditorium for
c o n c e r t s ,
drama, opera,
cinema — res-
taurants to suit.
various tastes
and needs—
museums and
s c h 0 o l s f o r
adults, adoles-
cents, and chil-
dren — kinder—
garten and play
schools for very
young children
supervised by
nurses, educa—
tOrs, and psy—
chologists who
have a sympa—
thetic under—
standing of chil-
den’s needs.
There might be
a high tower
from which at
night colored
light will be

JANUARY 1944

 

"Every community." says Leopold Sto-
kowski. "should have a recreation center—
partly open-air—and a civic auditorium. lie
possible. these should be in the same place."

What Mr. Stokowski has to say about
these buildings is so interesting that we
secured permission from the publishers.
Simon and Schuster. New York. to reprint

his statement from the recently published
book. Music for All of Us.

 

 

Lourtesy Reading, Pa., Recreation Department

projected —« which in time
will create new phases of an
art of color in motion and
form. From this tower
music can be sent out in any
direction desired, and at
those times of the day which
suit the majority—gay,
popular music for dancing
—stirring marches — music
from operas and operettas
——and the finest symphony
concerts.

Each recreation center should be under the guid—
ance of a single person responsible to the commu-
nity for the quality of each part of the activities—-
each of the separate parts being in turn the re—
sponsibility of an eXpert—no committees, but di—
rect individual reSponsibility. As we all vary in
our tastes, these recreation centers should have
parts for noisy, impulsive play and other parts for
amusement or
for study. These
centers should
not be profit-
making, but
each type of

amusement
should be as in-
expensive as
possible. These
centers should
serve the com-
munity, with.
only one aim
in mind—to
supply us all
with the vari—
ous kinds of
a m us em e nt
and recreation
of mind and
body we need
and which
would give us
all our share of
t h e j o y an (1
poetry of life. i

565 '

566 THE RECREATION CENTER AS A MUSICIAN SEES 'IT

Civic Auditorium

The auditorium will be planned by architects,
engineers, and musicians together so as to produce
the finest possible acoustical conditions. In the
civic auditorium on the grounds of the recrea-
tional center, concerts of symphonic music will be
given—also recitals by pianists, violinists, singers,
and chamber-music organizations of the highest
order. When desired, this music can be at the
same time sent out from the tower. This tower
can be so high, and the loudness of the music so
adjusted, that thousands can hear it in the gardens.
The music will be clear and full but not obtrusive
———if desired it can be directed to certain parts of
the gardens but be practically inaudible in others.

The auditorium in each community should be
beautiful inside and out—its form outside should
be an expression of its function inside. It should
be comfortable-450 that in listening to music we
can forget all physical considerations and lose our—
selves in the music. The entire stage should be
visible from every seat. A speaking voice on the
stage should easily be heard from every part of the
house.

Music should sound full and warm-and rich.
This can be achieved by using an acoustical re—

Hector on the stage and by making many of the -

surfaces of the walls and ceiling reflect and so
increase the volume of tone of the music to the
desired degree. The soft parts of-the music will
have mystery, distance, and yet clarity. At the end
of the hall farthest from the stage, the angles and
textures of the surfaces can be such that there will
be no echoes or overlong reverberation. Noise
from outside will be absorbed. Acoustical engineers
know how to do all of this. Unless the auditorium
is very large, electrical amplification will not be
necessary.

The coloring inside should be warm and friendly
—the lighting full and soft, without glare.

The corridors should be so lit, day and night,
that they can be used for exhibitions of paintings
and sculpture of the artists of the community—the
nation—the whole world.

The stage opening should be Hexible—both sides
and top—so that it can be any
size desired. This can be done
by a sliding Wall on each side
of the stage, and by a light but
solid partition from above
which can be raised or lowered.
By this means the stage open-

"When communities and nations real-
ize the importance of recreation.
sport. general culture. and music— *
there will begin a great era of the
evolution of man. with equal oppor-
tunity for well-being for everyone."

ing can have any proportion—any form that is
suitable. These changes can be controlled electri-
cally so that they can be made silently with ease
and swiftness during the performance. In other
words, the size and form of the stage opening will
be under control, just as is the opening of a
camera lens by the diaphragm. For drama and
opera the stage opening Can be high and narrow
for some scenes and wide and low for others, ac-
cording to the nature of the stage setting and the
scene. For symphony concerts the stage opening
can be exactly the size of the acoustical reflector.
For a speaker—singer—a violin, piano, or cello
recital—0r a quartet concert—the stage opening
can be quite small and intimate, with a small
acoustical refiector back of the performers.

The hall should have no balcony, because that
affects the sound underneath. It should be fan-
shaped—narrower at the stage, very broad at the
other end. The maximum number of seats should
be in relation to the needs of the community. By
an arrangement of flexible back walls this seating
can be reduced to any number desired, according
to whether the performance is on a large scale or
intimate.

On account of the great number of seats, ad-
mission can be within the reach of all.

The acoustical and lighting condition of the
hall should be in accordance with all the latest
technical knowledge on these subjects.

Back of the stage there should be plenty of
space for scenery and properties, and plenty of
small but good dressing rooms with outside ven—
tilation.

The whole should be air-conditioned, with con—
trolled temperature and humidity. The degree of -
humidity in an enclosed space infiuences the
acoustics.

\Vhen communities and nations realize the im-
portance of recreation, sport, general culture, and
music—there will begin a great era of the evolu-
tion of man, with equal opportunity for well-
being for everyone. Greed, exploitation, and ruth-
less competition will always have their inevitable
results. Equally certain is that cooperation, sim-
plicity, generousity, and understanding of the im-
portance of culture will lead to
everything that we know in
our hearts to be just, true, and
beautiful.

, Music for All of Us is re-
viewed on page 587 of this issue.

RECREATION

Planning and People

ODAY'we are living in an
atmosphere of planning

-—-—planning all over the
world, military planning, oc-
cupation planning for liber-
ated areas, international plan-
ning for living together as
nations after the war, busi-
ness and industrial planning,
community planning for a
better place in which to work
and live. Where two years ago the word was used
with apology now everyone speaks of planning
boldly and with conviction.

Local democracy is confronted with the biggest
opportunity since this country began. Public works
will be just one phase of this opportunity. The
emergency of the war is dynamo. But the energy
produced can set in motion a great deal more than
merely a shelf of public works. It can become that
gigantic force—a people’s program, a people’s pro-
gram for democratic area development—a develop-
ment that will carry far beyond the postwar period
into a future clear from the smoke and rubble of
war. We call it postwar planning. The end of war
merely dates the beginning of its execution.

All of us know that the fire of democracy is kept
alive on the hearth of local government. In our
cities and towns we live and work; it is there that
we shape the destiny of this nation. It is in our
local communities that we educate our children,
provide for health and sanitation, build our homes,
worship in our churches, and develop our culture.

It is there the we must plan our way of life follow—
ing this war.

So What Are We Doing About It?

We can provide properly located playgrounds
and breathing spaces, adequate sanitation, schools,
and clinics. At the same time that we make our
cities structurally sound we shall be preventing and
curing human erosion. Here is a program both
socially and financially sound. i

To accomplish this program we must obtain the
enactment by our state legislatures of proper urban
redevelopment laws. We must select our first area
for neighborhood redevelopment. Both will re-
quire research and thought and planning. And
where can you find a better place to invite the co-

IANUARY-1944

 

The extracts given here from the address
by Mayor Wilson W. WyaH‘ of Louisville,
Kentucky. before the annual meeting of
ihe International City
fion held last September. are significant
as showing the increasing trend toward
giving ihe people themselves a share in
the planning of their cities. The extracts
are presented fhrough ‘l’he courtesy
of the National Municipal Review.

Managers' Associa-

operation of your local archi-
tects, lawyers, builders, engi-
neers, businessmen, and just
plain citizens? Furnish the
full assistance of your plan-
ning commissions, yes, and of
your works department, and
your school board. But let it
become a citizens’ enterprise
as well. The people are vitally
interested in becoming a part
of their city’s future. Democracy makes the mis—
take not of asking too much participation by its
members, but too little. '

We are always talking about government by the
people as well as for the people. Well, then, let’s
make our community planning by the people. In
the early days of modern city planning it became
the custom to employ a city planner to develop a
master plan. After he had completed his Utopia it-
was presented to the people. Everyone gasped and
said, “How wonderful,” or “How idiotic,” accord:
ing to his fancy, and by the time the first public-
clamor had died away the dust had begun to.
gather on the master city plan.

I venture the prediction that where properly
selected citizen committees, in cooperation with
local officials, prepare a community’s postwar plans.
—or area development, as I should prefer to call
them—a large part of the final projects will be-
come realities, for they will represent the ambition
of the people for their city. Theirs is a tremendous
pool of ideas, technical skill, and energy for prac-
tical accomplishment.

This means a working citizens committee, not
just a group of names. At the very least they can
work on community planning in their free time.
Many, even the busiest, will take time out from
their business days. Most alert citizens, while
perhaps unwilling to give up their business and
hold public office, are glad for the opportunity to
help as an avocation.

Everyone likes to tell the mayor or the city
manager what should be done. Direct this energy
into a constructive channel. Almost everyone likes
to plan a house. How much more exciting to plan
a city. To him, it’s a war job. It’s a chance for
concrete postwar planning for the citizens’ own
good. '

567

568 PLANNING AND PEOPLE

The Chance of a Lifetime

Here would be the chance of a lifetime for wide-
awake, civic-minded, capable citizens to bring their
experience and judgment to bear on the specific
problems which face their city and affect—yes,
vitally affect—their own business and their pocket—
books. Higher property values mean better busi-
ness for the real estate man. Construction means
prosperity for architects, engineers, builders, and
labor. Cultural opportunities interest not just the
students and artists but every citizen as well as the
people in the surrounding area. And a progressive
city sets the pace for prosperity in all business.

Most city plans have borne but little fruit for
lack of public funds or at least for lack of public
interest and support. But if it is the people’s plan
it will have the public backing, receive the public
funds, and it. will be assured of action.

As an example of a city planning project in
which citizens are participating, we are reprinting
the following extracts from an article in the No—
vember 1943 issue of the American City entitled,
“Newspaper Poll Shows Public Preference as to
Miami Post-War Projects,” by Frank F. Stearns,
Executive Secretary, City Planning Board, Miami,

Florida.

The City Planning Board of Miami, at the sug-
gestion and with the help of Mayor Leonard K.
Thomson, enlisted the services of Miami’s two
newspapers,- the Miami Herald and the Daily
N ears, in conducting a newspaper poll to determine
the public’s preferential rating of postwar projects.
The Sunday, July 25, 1943, editions were used.
The first page of a section of each paper promi-
nently displayed illustrations of drawings and per-
tinent reading matter and a form of ballot listing
fifteen projects in alphabetical order. These were
the principal projects being considered. Repairs
and replacements of streets and sidewalks were
omitted because this is usual routine of city main—
tenance.

The public was invited to use the ballot form by
numbering the projects in relative order of prefer-
ence, clipping out and mailing to the planning
office for tabulation.

Both newspapers gave continuing publicity
through news items and editorials. One News edi-
torial read in part as follows:

“To offer these suggestions should be regarded
by every citizen as a privilege well worth exercis-
ing, a privilege vouchsafed only by the democracy

for which its sons and‘brothers are fighting so
hard.”

Projects in Order of Public Preference

Considerable interest was displayed and a num-

ber of ballots were received. The results at the end
of two weeks were as follows:

Sewage disposal and sewer extensions

New railroad terminal and related improvements
Slum clearance and redevelopment

Hospital improvements and additions

Waterworks supply source and extensions
Bridges and tunnels

Virginia Key Bay Airport
Incinerator improvements
Parks and playgrounds

Pan American Center
Library

Fire and Police c

City Administration Building
Auditorium

Orange Bowl Stadium enlargement
Sidewalks

Street Widening
Weed cutting
Bus terminal

Harbor
Transportation

Garbage collection

Planning and zoning

Air transportation

River widening

Aquarium

Free port of entry

Housing program

Waterfront beautification
Mosquito control

Ice skating rink

Flagler Street beautification
Tropical Disease Research Center
Simon Bolivar monument to honor our South

American neighbors
In addition to the ballots, a number of letters
were received with some very excellent sugges-
tions and ideas. The order of public preference of
listed proects and additional ideas and criticisms is
being carefully weighed as a guide in the develop—
ment of projects and their relation to the best

planning of Miami.
Since the votes were counted, additional ballots

and letters have been received—some from far
places.

The Mayor Predicts

The Mayor, in his original suggestion, pointed
out that many of the citizens in Miami believe the

population of Miami will increase within eight or
(Continued on page 580)

RECnEA'rION

The Show Goes On

I have heard since the begin-

ning of the war—the sigh of the wind, wailing
and moaning through the great web of camouflage
that stretched between us and the moonlit sky.

The station was very “hush—hush,” and the ca-
mouflage was necessary enough, for there was not
much shelter on this desolate plain.

All the same, to live day and night, month after
month, listening to the sound of that insane hissing
and whimpering and whining would be calculated
to get on a man’s nerves.

“Doesn’t it ever send you nuts?”

The corporal by my side grinned. An odd look-
ing grin, for his face was checkered by the shadows
cast from the whistling web above.

“You get used to it,” he said. “Especially when
we’ve got something to look forward to, like to—
night.”

oVVhich reminds me that
this was meant to be a

I '1‘ was ONE of the strangest sounds

By BEVERLY NICHOLS

The ENSA (Entertainment of National Services)
presents its show often within sound of the

story about some good companions.
The phrase is inescapable when
you are writing about the gallant little parties of
stage folk who go out to the remotest parts of the
country—indeed, to the ends of the earth, from
Iceland to the West Coast of Africa—bringing
laughter and music to millions of men in this war,
so much of which is waiting.

It was because I knew something of the line
work that Ensa (Entertainment of National Ser-
vices Association) was doing that I had come to
this outlandish spot that night. Let us stand to-
gether in the mud and the rain, watching for their
arrival.

They are late, for they have to come many miles
through a maze of lonely roads and narrow lanes.
But just as we are getting anxious, there is a hoot,
the sentry runs to the gate, and a small covered
car splashes towards us
and stops.

Out of this car—which

guns and in constant danger of being bombed

JANUARY 1944

 

'1 u-u

Courtesy British I nformatian Sen-ices

569

570 THE SHOW GOES ON

you would say might hold, at a pinch, three people
and a couple of suitcases—clamber four men and
a girl. We can hardly see the girl, for she skips
off through the mud to do a quick change.

But the men remain behind to get out the
“props.” It is evidently a magic car, for the props
are voluminous, and include a huge drum and a
miniature piano.

Back to the hut. There are about thirty men in
the audience, one officer, one cat, and two land—
girls who have walked three miles over ploughed
fields for the treat.

I annex the cat, say a few words to the land-
girls, and, hey-presto, before we know where we
are, four artists in immaculate dinner jackets have
emerged through the curtains, which are really a
couple of Army blankets.

The hut is filled with a gale of music, from
piano, and accordion and violin and drum—and
the war and the camp and the khaki and the ca-
mouflage seem a very long way off.

The music stops. Whistles, stamps, hurrahs.
The “curtains” part, and the girl appears.

Ten minutes ago she was a feminine bundle of
scarves and mackintoshes, hopping through pud—
dles. Now she is in a frock of white lace that looks
as though it had just come out of a bandbox.

Her hair is exquisitely waved and ordered. Her
make-up is exactly adapted to the glaring light.
She is singing—and singing beautifully ——Ave
Maria.

That seems to me, to put it mildly, an achieve-
ment. I will not describe the admirable concert
which ensued, though it is interesting to note that
the greatest applause seemed reserved for the clas—
sical numbers.

As you weren’t there to clap in person, I should
like you to join me in a discreet clap on paper. n

The spirit that animated this little party was
typical of the spirit which animates all Ensa. And
I think it deserves a hand.

The show must go on. In Spite of wind, weather,
mud, the blackout and the Luftwaffe.

There is no stage on which to act? A little detail
like that need not deter us. There are plenty of
mess-tables hanging about; they may not all be
quite the same height, and some of their legs may
be rather “wonky”; but they will serve.

Many a gallant little lady has danced out on such
crazy platforms with a smile as bright and as un-

concerned as if she were waltzing on the boards of
Drury Lane.

There are no lights? Who cares? A couple of
hurricane lamps, a candle in a bottle, an electric
torch or two, and with some assistance from your
imagination we will persuade you that you are the
spectator of dawns and sunsets and brilliant ball-
rooms.

We must play in a tent, in which there are only
a few feet where we can stand upright? True, that
does call for a moment’s consideration, particularly
as it means that all the most touching love scenes
will have to be played round a tent pole. Also,
since the tent is on sharply sloping ground, most
of the exits will have to be made by climbing up
a bank. However, a little rehearsal, a little im—
provisation, and we manage. The show goes on.

The word “improvisation” covers a multitude of
miniature dramas and comedies.

Consider, for instance, the case of the Sisters X.
They were a serious musical act, which they per-
formed with the assistance of a piano.

A piano will stand plenty of rough treatment,
but there are limits to its endurance, and when the
Sisters X began to sing one night in a remote
Scottish camp, half the notes just weren’t there.

What did they do? They turned the act, there
and then, into broad comedy, and it was a howling
success.

It was the same with a party who found them-
selves suddenly playing in a railway station. When
a train hooted they brought the boot into the dia-
logue. And when some of the men can’t get to the
concert, the concert goes to them. They sing to
cooks while they are working, they clamber into
antiaircraft pits during a blitz and play the ac-
cordion between the barrages.

“The show must go on,” is one of the grandest
phrases that ever came from the lips of man. It is

being bravely upheld.

Reprinted, by permission, from the February 1943 issue
of Britain.

“The suffering and hardship shared together
have given us a new understanding of each other’s
problems. The lessons learned during the forty
tremendous months behind us have taught us how
to work together for victory, and we must see to
it that we keep together after the war to build a
worthier future. Victory will bring us even greater
world responsibilities, and we must not be found
unequal to a task in the discharge of which we
shall draw on the storehouse of our experience and
tradition.”—King George VI in a broadcast to
America, Christmas Day, 1942.

RECREATION

The Starsand Stripes Revue

 

When the talented troupers of Elizabeth. New
Jersey, go into rehearsal. they are usually get-
ting ready for an army show. These amateurs
have learned how to compete successfully with
professionals on the hard-plugging G. I. circuit.

 

, Photo by Richard M itchel!

A veteran at eight . . .

HEN THE CURTAIN goes up on the Stars and
Stripes Revue of Elizabeth, New Jersey,
there is a troupe of talented teens behind the

footlights and usually an army of servicemen out
in front. These young amateurs have successfully
competed with professionals in touring the army
camps of the state, and they can claim sold-out
houses at Fort Dix, Fort Monmouth, Camp Kil-
mer, Camp Edison, Fort Hancock, Raritan Ar-
senal, Eatontown Reservation, Tilton Hospital in
Fort Dix, the New York Training Center at
Verona, and the Elizabeth Armory.

JANUARY 1944

It all began five years ago when Anthony Or—
lando organized the' Senior Dramatic Club at the
South Broad Street Community Center which is

sponsored by Elizabeth’s Recreation Commission.

The Club grew rapidly in peacetime, then cata-
pulted to popularity when the needs of servicemen
in near-by camps sent them out on the G.I. circuit.
N ow the boys and girls have a “big time” show on
their hands.

Their current musical comedy revue is. a happy
mixture of songs, dances, comedy numbers, and
orchestra selections. Every Thursday evening and
Friday afternoon the cast get tOgether with Mr.
Orlando and Miss Molly Levine, their dramatic
coach and pianist, to rehearse their numbers and
run through the show. The Club is now housed at
the Midtown Community Center. It’s a full time
job for these youngsters to keep their Stars and
Stripes Revue “on the road.”

The program of this all-star entertainment in—
cludes orchestra and instrumental numbers, comedy
skits, dancing, and singing. The orchestra, known
as “Paula and Her Trio,” is made up of an electric
Spanish guitarist, an electric Hawaiian guitarist,
an accordion player, and a young master of the
bass fiddle. A special instrumental number is
handled by a fifteen year old trap drummer who
plays a novelty solo.

The dances range from swing, tap, and acro—
batic, through Spanish, Mexican, and Hawaiian,
to currently popular military numbers. And the
songs on the program are equally varied: solos,
duets, trios ; harmony, swing, blues, Spirituals, bal-
lads, folk and cowboy songs, popular and semiclas—
sical numbers. Jacki Cantara, an eight year old
soloist with the touch of a veteran trouper, is one
of the show’s hit performers. '

The Club also boasts a composer among its
membership with Coach Molly Levine composing
several of the songs for their revues.

The Army and Navy have taken their toll of the
cast, but several servicemen still take part in the
shows when they are home on leave. Occasionally
they are in Elizabeth long enough to go with the
show as guest masters of ceremonies or guest stars.
Classical singing star Louise. Natale is a guest. on
the program whenever she is not otherwise engaged.

Anyone is eligible for a tryout in the show. The

(Continued on page 583)
571

lt's Being Donein Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

IRPLANES. “ 3nilding Model War Planes,”

by Emanuel Stieri. Duell, Sloan, and Pearce,.

New York, 90 pp. 60 construction patterns. $1. 50.
Detailed plans, photographs and materials for
models needed by the United States for identifica-

tion instruction.

“Baden-Poet'ell,” by E. E. Reynolds. Oxford
University Press, New York. 283 pp. $2.75.
The story of scouting.

Bees. “A Hobby that Pays,” a 16 pp. bulletin.
G. B. Lewis Company, Watertown, Wisconsin.
“This little booklet written by Kenneth Hawkins
explains what you will want to know about bees.”
Free upon request.

Camping. “Adventuring Together,” by Louise
Adler. A demonstration in coed cooperative camp-
ing for adolescents. 43 pp. Juvenile House of

Juvenile Service League, 974 E. 156th Street,
New York.

Conservation. “Our \Vorld and How to Use
It.” by Edna Fay Campbell. An adaptation of
“This Useful World,” by Paul B. Sears, James I.
Quillen, and Paul R. Hanna. Scott Foresman and
Company, Chicago. 1942. 287 pp. Might be called
social geography. Fourteen year olds enjoy it.

“Ducks, Geese and Swans of North America,”
by F. H. Kortwright. Published by the American
\Vildlife Institute. Washington, D. C. 476 pp.
$4.50.

“Edible Wild Plants of Eastern North America,”
by Merritt L. F ernald and Alfred C. Kinsey. Gray
Herbarium, Harvard University, Garden Street,
Cambridge 38, Massachusetts.‘ 422 pp. $3.00. A
carefully prepared book with recipes. “ill be the

authoritative book for many years and should
stand alongside of Gray’s Manual.

Farmer Aides, High School. The Children’s

lureau, Washington, D. C., has published a 14 pp.

pamphlet, “Guides to Successful Employment of
Non-Farm Youth in War Time Agriculture.”

Farmers. “The Flag Is Over the Plow,” by
Barton Rees Pogue.
“Do you feel, young man, the only way
To serve the land you love

13 to shoulder a gun and march away
With the stars and stripes above?

572

More than tr00ps and ships and camps are marked
\Vith the cloth of our sacred vow,
You may not see it wave as you work,
_ But the Hag is over the plow.”

Farms. “Farm Aides.” Womans Press, New
York. 46 'pp. pamphlet. 25 cents.

Fertilisers. The following pamphlets may be
secured from the National Fertilizer Association,
Inc. Executive office, 616 Investment Building,
\Vashington, D. C.: No. II 7, Fertilizers and Good.
Farming; No. 118, Green Acres; No. 129, Min-
eral Hunger in Livestock; No. 130, Improving
Grass in Lawns, Parks, Fairways and Athletic
Fields; No. I 31, Putting Plantfood to Work; No.
132, Using Superphosphate with Manure; No.
133, Fertilizing Soybeans; No. 134, More Milk
and Meat from More Grass; No. I 35, The Home
Garden; No. 136, Organic Matter—the Life of
the Soil.

Food. “Fightin’ Food.” Pillsbury Flour Mills
Company, Foods Education Department, Minne-
apolis 2, Minnesota. Free 14 pp. booklet, a prac-
tical, up-to-the-minute wartime guide.

4-H Club Program. Recreation is becoming
more popular, camps and educational trips, con—
servation of wild life, dramatization of war tasks,
and popular slogans such _as “Feed a Fighter in
1944” are earmarks of the changing program.

Gardening, Hunger for. When The London
Daily Mail naval reporter was at sea recently in a
destroyer, he was asked by a sailor whether he
would like to see his garden. “I followed him
doubtfully down to his mess deck,” he writes, “but
the garden was there. It was an old tobacco tin,
and pea plants were growing in it. The sailor had
got the earth by scraping potatoes issued to the
mess. The seeds came from dried peas which the
cook let him have. ‘They’re hardly prize-winners,’
said this Atlantic gardener, ‘but they’re the only

plants for miles around here.’ ”-——Reprinted from
The N ew York Times.

Hiking. “Hiking as a Physical Fitness Activ-
ity.” Chicago Office of Civilian Defense, 23 North
\Vacker Drive, Chicago. 42 pp. pamphlet.

Horticultural Society, Massachusetts. Organ-
ized in 1829 in Boston. Baldwin apples, Bartlett

(Continued on page 576)
RECREATION

You Asked for it!

UESTION: I have
Q recently accepted the
chairmanship of the Educa—
tion and Leisure Time Di-
vision of the Council of
Social Agencies. The job of
this committee is not at all clearly defined and per—
haps rightly so. More than this, it could stand re—
definition in the light of present trends, war in—
fluences and the much talked of delinquency causes.
I am writing you in the hope that you may be
willing to “take down your hair” and chat with me
as to what is your thinking and what we can do on
a decidedly city-wide or area—wide basis.

it to continue.

Answer: Community forces are so numerous
and complicated that a sucessful approach to any
major problem requires a strong and inclusive
attack. Organized labor, nationality groups, mi—
nority groups, new and strong groups interested in
governmental efficiency, as well as the agencies
that we identify as social work agencies should be
well represented in local efforts aiming at reor-
ganization of municipal services or accomplishing
any drastic change. For this reason I have always
thought that a division such as yours should be as
widely representative as possible, and that the in—
terpretation of what was recreation or leisure
should include schools, libraries, and other such
organizations as well as the familiar youth agen-
cies and the municipal recreation bureau. I know
that labor is strong and has a big interest in social
and recreational activities. The same is true of in-
dustrial management.

Service rather than coordination should be the
'slogan of the Division. I think it is true that when
any group gives appreciated service it establishes its
community leadership and it gradually and natur-
ally exercises a coordinating function. In one or
two communities with which I am familiar, coun—
cils have had such an exaggerated concbption of
their role as planning and coordinating agencies
that their efforts have been interpreted as an at-
tempt to dictate, and their usefulness has been
greatly impaired.

The next general point is that even though the
Division may in its own personnel be widely rep—
resentative, there are projects in which it will find
it necessary to unite its strength with other public

JANUARY 1944

One of you asked such an important
question that we have temporarily
revived this column. If you want
ask us

and private agencies in order
to get a job done, and not
feel it necessary to attempt
a project solely under its
own auspices.

Next, I believe that more
attention should be given to community improve-
ment in terms of neighborhoods. Existing neigh—
borhood organizations of a representative type or
new ones that will be created should be utilized to
educate parents in recreational standards, in con-
certed attacks on delinquency, and as a means of
civic training for children and young people. Not
many cities that I know have by any means put
the possibilities of neighborhood action to a full
test.

another!

So much for general suggestions. When it comes
to the programs of divisions su'ch as yours they
seem to fit into three types—discussions, studies,
and direct action. Some of the things I am listing
here come out of current experience; others are
several years old.

Discussions

Conferences with teen age young people on
social and recreational programs they would like
for themselves

Hearings staged for young people on the same
subject

Discussions on the wider use of school buildings

The promotion of family and home recreation

Camping and day camping

Recreation for minorities

Forums and conferences

Studies "*

Studies undertaken by recreation and leisure
time divisions:

An analysis of individual agencies in relation to
the needs in their neighborhoods

'A study of camp supplies

What becomes of the high school graduate? In
wartime the answer to this is simpler than in
peacetime, but I know that prior to the lowering
of the draft age to 18, of the many thousands of
high school boys and girls who took part regularly
in the program of the physical education depart-
ment only a small fraction displayed any interest

573 ~

574 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

in the use of school gymnasiums after graduation.

Studies of delinquency 

Special needs of war workers

Community-wide surveys

Studies of the recreational interests and recre-
ational habits of people

Inquiries into the practices of public and private
leisure agencies in encouraging self-management,
self-government, group leadership and the assump—
tion of responsibility among boys and girls

Collaboration with municipal planning boards in
local planning studies

Direct Action

Direct action among Councils has included the
following:

Influencing housing administrators to incorpor-
ate in their developments playlots, playgrounds
and recreation buildings which meet modern
standards. (See Standard: for Neighborhood Rec-
reation Areas and Facilities published by National
Recreation Association.)

Promoting the development of an adequate rec-
reational and civic program in connection with
new housing projects

Helping to bring about the establishment of teen
age youth centers

Counseling and helping to train teen age young
people in their own management and operation or
in committee work related to the operation of
youth centers

Fostering the creation of neighborhood coor-
dinating councils where there exists no competent
neighborhood group for cooperative promotion of
civic and social improvement

By all means of interpretation, keeping alive
during wartime public appreciation of the philoso—
phy of balanced living

Publishing and widely distributing attractive di-
rectories of local recreational facilities and services,
both public and private

Registering, recruiting and training volunteers

Sponsoring or conducting institutes for the train-
ing of both paid and volunteer workers

Promoting day camping

Cooperating in the use of facilities

Correlating school training and activities pro-
moted by public and private recreational organiza—
tions

Arranging between museums and recreational
agencies for the use of lectures from the museums
before recreational groups on the one hand, and

systematic arrangement of visits to museums by

grdups from recreational agencies

Promoting recreational service in institutions

Back Municipal Program

All the Division’s constituent agencies have a
special stake in the success of the municipal recre-
ation program. The Council has in past years
given-a great deal of attention to the effort to im-
prove the municipal recreation program in the
city. Some of the practical activities in this direc—
tion would include the following:

Securing the appointment by the Mayor of a
truly representative advisory committee on recre—
ation with a free hand to reveal the facts as to
needs and to press for improvements. Such a
committee should be principally lay people of great
influence and force and the composition of the
committee should include representatives from na-
tionality groups, labor, minority groups, and the
other usual civic, business and industrial forces.

I am convinced that it is necessary to carry a
vigorous educational program on municipal recre-
ation standards to neighborhood groups in the
city. I include all kinds of neighborhood groups
regardless of their education or cultural back-
ground. I do not believe there will be any great
improvement in the standards of the municipal
program until a great many ordinary parents and
citizens have a clear grasp of, a few of the element—
ary standards as to training and qualifications of
community center and playground directors, of
neighborhood programs, and salaries. Here I see
a great opportunity for the Division to develop a
systematic educational program. This knowledge
and conviction will carry from the neighborhoods
to councilmen and city officials. For many years
attempts at improvement have proceded from cen-
tralized social and civic committees directed at city
hall. What is needed is a movement from the
grass roots.

With the public schools greatly reducing their
budget there seems no irmnediate prospect of
schools sponsoring a lighted school house program.
I have noted there is some spontaneous demands
for opening of schools in one or two neighbor-
hoods, and I know that representatives of indus-
try have wanted to have the use of school gym-
nasiums for indoor sports.'

There are several cities which have successful
arrangements by which industries, clubs, or other

(Continued on page 581)
RECREATION

 

Courtesy Naval Training Station, San Diego, Calif.

NAVY men at the US.
Naval Training Sta-
tion in San Diego,
California, are well
provided for in the reading material department.
There are 28,000 volumes in the seven libraries
which are managed by eight Civil Service librari-
ans__and a number of women welfare employees.
A constant survey is made concerning the reading
habits of the men and the Station tries to supply
them with technical books for advancement in rat—
ing, books for recreational reading, papers from
the home town, and magazines.

Sailors Supplied with
Reading Material

THE BLUE Network
has begun a weekly
“Storyland Theater”
program series specially written and arranged for
children of primary or preschool age. The pro—
grams, which are broadcast each Saturday evening
from 5 :45 to 6 :00 P. M., Eastern W ar Time, com-
bine an entertaining story adapted from the folk
tale of some foreign land with original music.
Stories dramatized on “Storyland Theater” range
from “The Little Rabbit Who Wanted Red
\Vings,” based on an Indian folk tale, to “The

Little Boy Who Slept,” taken from a Chinese
fable.

“Storyland Theater”

lANUARY 1944

 

 

 

AT PLAY

THE INTERNATIONAL
Youth Center, opened
in London last sum-
mer, is open to young
men and women from 18 to 30 years of age of the
United Nations. Although the Center, which was
made possible through an International Youth
Trust, is primarily cultural and instructive, it will
also be recreational. Thus, in addition to an in-
ternational library of books and gramophone rec-
ords, and a program of lectures, debates, and dis-
cussion groups, there are music and drama clubs

International Youth
Center

' and Saturday evening dances.

 

PLANS for a postwar
municipal recreation
center are already un-
derway in Wilming—
ton, Delaware. The city has paid the federal gov—
ernment $25,000 for an 18-acre tract of land, lo-
cated near the center of Wilmington. While plans
are being drawn up for the project, the federal
government is using the site at present and has
leased it until the war ends. "

Postwar Recreation
Center

FOUR community agen-
cies in Niagara Falls,
New York, united to
organize a “Gray-Y”
Club in a section of the city where recreation for
boys was badly needed. Active in the movement
were the Y.M.C.A. and the Lions Club who en-
gaged a club leader and operated the club two
nights a week, the boys meeting one night in the
social room of a church, the other night in the high
school gymnasium. In between meetings the boys
had the privilege of using the Y.M.C.A. for swim—
ming and special meetings. The principal of the
school in the_ district cooperated enthusiastically
and served as chairman of a guiding committee of
men in the neighborhood.

Niagara Falls “Gray-Y”
Club for Recreation

IN RESPONSE to a for-
mer staff member’s
plea for compact games
equipment for his sub-
marine crews, Z. T. Egardner of the Chicago Park
District staff developed a new six-games game
board which includes four-handed checkers, fox

New Game Boards for
Submarine Crews

575'

570 WORLD A T PLA Y

DIAMOND PRODUCTS

Are On Every Fighting Front
Wifh the ArmyI fhe Navy. the Marines.

on tanks and in airplanes . . . Diamond
Tools and Products are doing fheir part
to keep Uncle Sam's fighting machinery
moving forward . . . They are used on
the farm and in every essential war
industry on the home front.

We're doing our best to take care
of our customers. but war needs must
come first.

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.
46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

citizens, has received a gift of fifteen acres of prop-
checkers, chess, and mill, on the other. Former
staff members and recreation executives in the
armed forces may obtain copies of the game board
by writing to the OFHce of the Director of Recre-
ation, Chicago.

“Teen Age Monroe” -——- Monroe, Louisiana,
has an organization sponsored by the Recreation
Board known as the T.A.M. (“Teen Age Mon-
roe”). Any high school girl in Monroe of teen
age may join the group which has been organized
to further war activities and at the same time pro—
vide recreational diversions. Specifically the group
purchases \Var Stamps and Bonds and encourages
others to do the same. It takes charge of'children’s
parties and picnics, and participates in playground
efforts. Members are expected to join first aid and
Red Cross lifesaving classes and to act as volun-
teers in any war effort that may be carried on. The
city has been divided into eight districts with a

T.A.M. leader for each area and an area com-
mander.

A Camp for Colored Citizens——-Dixwell Com-
munity House, New Haven’s center for colored

and geese, and solitaire, on one side; two-handed
erty near Leete Island. Dr. \Villiam  Holly, a
retired druggist, is donor of the property which
will be used as a camp for children and young peo-
ple. Various groups of volunteers have done the
work of clearing the land, Company G of the Con-
necticut State Guard having been the first to un~
dertake the task. i

For eighteen years Dixwell Community House
has served the colored population of 'New Haven
with a program designed “to promote wholesome
living, community welfare, and the wise use of
leisure time.”

Future Farmers COnvert Chapter House——
The Smoky Mountains National Park Chapter of
Future Farmers of America, VVaynesville, N. C.,
have made available their chapter house as a com-
munity recreation center for the town school.
Square dances, ball room dancing and other forms
of recreation are sponsored every week. At pres-
ent the building is also used for health and de-
fense training in the school. The chapter house
which is in the shape of a Maltese Cross was built
by the Future Farmers.

Safety in Winter Fun

( Continued from page 544)
bers, after that member has attended two consecu-
tive meetings.

Ten service points are given for playground
duty (patroling sliding areas).

Ten points for calling members to special meet—
ings. ’

One point for cutting and sanding wooden
badge.

Five points for “burning” badge with emblem.

One point for mounting badge on pin.

Ten points for bringing in accident reports from
the newspapers with a written notation on how
that accident could have been prevented.

Twenty-five points for writing the monthly
Coast Guard letter.

Five points for First Aid Rules.

Ten points for bandages.

Ten points for correctly teaching bandages.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

(Continued from page 572)

pears, and Concord grapes were exhibited for the
first time at the early shows of this Society. Its
library is the largest of its kind in America. The

RECREATION

HOW SHALL WE CURB DELINQUENCY? 577

Society maintains an employment bureau for gar-
deners ; fifteen organizations have headquarters 0r
meetings at its Horticultural Hall; there are two
annual flower shows. With a membership of about
7,000, the Society encourages school children,__by
exhibiting their garden products.

Massachusetts Audubon Society, (1896), the
oldest state Audubon Society in the United States,
conducts many educational projects, including
nature-lore and conservation in eighty biweekly
classes in MasSachusetts schools. It publishes a
40-page bulletin and the nationally known colored
bird charts which are useful for games. The So-
ciety’s therapy program for army patients at
Lovell General Hospital, Fort Devens, is a fore-
runner of what must be emphasized in the future.

“National Parks in Wartime.’ The stress of
war has reduced travel to parks to 27 per cent of
peak figure of 22 million visitors in 1941. Since
Pearl Harbor two million members of the armed

forces have visited national parks. “Most of the I l i )
people who visit parks . . . are impelled to visit  5
them because of the quest for a supreme experi-

ence. . . . If we can remember this, we can remain ' d ‘ h
true to our high calling as trustees for the greater    t 8
things of America,” by Newton B. Drury, Director,

National Park Service, in an article in American M k ’
Forests, August 1943. a g

J

 

HOW  We Curb Delinquency? 0 0n thousands of basketball floors you see

(Continued from page 560) them today—America’s'future leaders. They are

. fitting their bodies and training their personali-

or superVISors, or play leaders to meet the needs ties to the strains of competition—to the love of
in any part of the country. Because of the difficulty 8 good fight and a clean victory.

presented in getting under way a new municipal America’s competitive sports are the basis of

service requiring skilled personnel that is difficult a Youth that is never licked—that plays out the

to secure, the trend throughout the country has 1““ 3°°°nd Pf every game: be it basketball.
been toward the creation of a recreation commis- featball’ tenmS’ track or WAR'

sion to concentrate on the development of this ser- It has been 0‘” 3031 Since before Pearl Harbor

_ o _ to make a w'nn' ' ’ -
v1ce Just as it became necessary long ago to have . - 1 mg scfire for Americas com
petitive sports—as a Vital part of the physical

a school board to concentrate on the task of pub- mness of our mama Wilson Sporting Goods

liC education. Co., Chicago, New York, and other leading cities.
A recreation commission must be in a strong

position so that it can make use of all available

municipal properties and all school properties. It .

must have broad powers. It must have adequate

f .

unds SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Cincinnati’s Experience *
In Cincinnati, the Recreation Commission spends

$300,000 a year as its operating budget, a sum ".5 WILSON TODA
equal to that spent by the Park Board. In addition Y 'N SPORTS EQU'PMENT

to the $300,000 operating budget, the Commission

 

JANUARY 1944

578 MERIT AWARDS IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

5:- -"éYM MATS-PADS

_  ‘5 BOXING RINGS

TRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALL

‘ BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT...

designed by exports, and. by a):wa workmen In-
wdHy-mtiahudsdddkoduschook, my,“

Independent, "My whohtak.

. ,  NATIONAL svonrs sounpueur couPANv
' ‘ r ' 3‘5 NAIQUITTI - CORD DU LAC, WIS.

 {or New (dialog

   

 
 
 
     

spends annually $50,000 of bond funds for reha—
bilitation of buildings and grounds on recreation
areas. It has spent more than $6,000,000 in the
past eleven years in federal and city relief funds
and in city bond funds in land acquisition and im-
provements for recreation. It has increased its
recreation areas from 350 to 1,000 acres; its play-
grounds for twenty—seven to forty-nine with an
average of over six acres for each neighborhood
playground. It has increased its district playlields
from two to seven, averaging twenty acres apiece.
It has spent over $1,000,000 in improving a single
zoo-acre recreation field. -

In its highest delinquency neighborhood, the
West End, the Recreation Commission has spent
$1,000,000 on land acquisition alone. This year it
is opening in this district a new $400,000 recrea-
tion center with a fine community house and three
outdoor standard swimming pools. Within a few
months it will start acquiring in the West End
section, another center costing over $200,000 for
the land alone. A third center is planned in this
area to cover six acres and cost over $400,000.
Fourteen high school and elementary school
grounds have been leased to the Recreation Com-
mission and more than $1,000,000 has been spent
by the Commission on their improvement. In ac-
quiring new neighborhood playgrounds with mu-
nicipal funds, the Recreation Commission has fol-
lowed the policy of locating these immediately
adjoining schools so that they do double duty,
serving the children during school hours and the
community during out of school hours.

Cincinnati, like many other cities having a Rec-
reation Commission, conducts a nation-wide ex-
amination under Civil Service in order to select
its director. The job of director is regarded as
being a task quite as difhcult as that of the Super-
intendent of Schools.

In conclusion, I would like to ask our Columbus
Town Meeting of the Air to consider the possibili-
ties of municipal recreation service in connection
with the postwar planning that is receiving atten-

   

  

tion not only in Columbus but in the state, the
nation, and in the world. Recreation is being given
a large place in this planning. Columbus can cre-
ate new values in real estate as well as in the lives
of its people by making broad plans for the rede-
velopment and modernization of the city as a whole
in the postwar period to make it, as the capital of
Ohio, the best laid out city. in this state.

Perhaps the most important municipal task be-
fore~ us in Columbus is to reconstruct our capital
city along lines that will make it a better city to
live in—a better place for children to grow up
in—a place where every child will have adequate
recreation facilities and leadership, and where
every neighborhood and every block is organized
to help the child become a better citizen.

‘Merif Awards in fhe Recrea’rion

Program

(Continued from page 551)
portant observation. Unless the personnel is capa-

ble of performing the activities outlined in the
plan, success will be difficult.

The plan is workable and in our case is playing
an important part in our program. The plan
should be used as an adjunct to the program and
should not be the total prdgram. We feel that the
original objectives of education, progression, sell-
ing recreation to the community, and developing
leadership have been attained.

From an administrative standpoint, many con-
comitant results have been observed in addition to
those outlined. The activities outlined in the plan
are a good basis for a planned program of recrea-
tion and can be used as fundamental guides for
workers in recreation. Workers who have tried
the plan state that it gives them a planned program
and also a good perspective of the activities which
can be carried on for their recreational values.
Many workers have undertaken the plan as a
means of self-improvement in their work. Any
administrator of recreation can handily use the plan
as a guide to workers on the stalf and feel sure
that there will be enough activity on the play-
grounds to keep everybody busy.

Finally, I should like to add that the plan has
worked with us after three years of effort. One
should not expect complete success the first year.
Every child who participates in the plan becomes
educated to the fun of playing and develops a
feeling of belonging to a playground as a leader.
When he becomes the citizen of tomorrow he will
be a friend of recreation.

RECREATION

VOIT SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

      

Voit proudly presents the Ball of Tomorrow...
today! Now a limited quantity of the "Post-
War"Voit super’Basketballs, Footballs,$ocicer
Balls,Volley Balls, and Soft Balls is available to
you! Other types of Voit Balls will also be avail-
able soon. These Balls play better, last longer,
resist wear on rough playing surfaces, stay in-
tlated longer. New synthetics, plus_Voit war-
born "know-how," make these miracles olthe
Future a reality in the present. Orders willbe
apportioned tairly among our customers.

v ‘9,

JYNIHRIC '  _7  

BUY WAR BONDS REGULARLY

.0 F SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

0
See ’your dealer now.. .place your order early. . 0°

Mfgcl. by W. J. Voit Rubber Corp.,1600 E. 25th St, Los Angeles 11, Calif.

 

JANUARY 1944 579

580 PLANNING AND PEOPLE

  

ARTS and CRAFTS

for the

Recreation Lender

By FRANK A. STAPLES

   
   

HERE is the arts and crafts book you’ve

l been asking for—an illustrated guide to

‘ beginners as well as experienced leaders of
arts and crafts groups.

      
       
 

Wherever you are working—in municipal '
recreation departments and in schools, in set-
tlements, clubs, churches, nursery schools or
other private and public agencies—this volume
will give you what you want . . .

 
       
   
   
 

. . . Information about the kinds of arts
and crafts best suited to different age levels

 
 

. . . A few suggestions about underlying
1 philosophy, leadership, and design

     

. . . A profusely illustrated project outline
including:

 
 
   

Finger Painting Spatter Printing

 
 
      
   
   
   
   
      

Clay Modeling Potato Block Printing
Sawdust Modeling Felt Printing
Bookmaking Seat Rushing
Bookbinding Broomstick Weaving
Candlemaking Card Weaving
Sewing Bead Weaving

Tie Dyeing Netting

Marble Printing Posters

Fruit Banks Kites

Masks Lie Detector

   

And many others

   

This book contains much of the material
presented by Frank Staples at the institutes he
conducts as Director of Arts and Crafts of the
National Recreation Association. Some of the
projects described have appeared in material
sent out in the Association’s Bulletin Service.

Arts and Crafts for the Recreation Leader

will be of invaluable aid in planning your
program—order your copy today!

 
     
   
       
 

  

     
 

Price $| .50

  
    

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue. New York to. N. Y.

 
 

   
  
  

Planning and People
(Continued from page 568)

ten years after the war to more than three hundred
thousand. He said that this would mean a possible
increase in the number of dwellings required by
thirty to forty thousand more than-exist now; also,
that, based on past experience, there would be an
increase in the number of automobiles owned by
citizens to the extent of twenty to twenty-five
thousand. There would be a similar increase in the
use of all public utilities such as water, lights, and
telephone, and also in the service rendered by the
city.

In soliciting the participation of the citizens in
the formulation of plans for post-war projects, it
was pointed out that the City Planning Board and
the City Commissioners need the benefit of ideas
and thoughts of all citizens. The results of this
newspaper poll indicated clearly that the Miamians
who responded gave careful and unselfish thought
to the projects that would be most beneficial to the
greatest number of people. The members of the
Planning Board feel that the results of this poll”
will be of material assistance in planning post-war

projects.

Volley Ball in I944

(Continued from page 548)

5. Send in scores of top six in every division
by April 5, 1944.

6. National awards will be made to the indi-
vidual in each division who has the top score; to
the highest team in each division as follows: ,

Prep boys, Prep girls, Prep mixed (three boys,

three girls)

Junior boys, Junior girls, Junior mixed

Intermediate boys, Intermediate girls, Inter-

mediate mixed

Senior men, Senior women, Senior mixed

Veteran men, Veteran women, Veteran mixed

and club recognition for the organization having

the best record with representation to all divi-

sions.

Volley ball is an American game that has spread
around the world. It is possible to help build in-
ternational good will through sports and recrea-
tion. This event for 1944 is one method that we
can use to help improve our own appreciation of
and playing skill in a game that involves the typical
American qualities of initiative, speed, coordina-
tion, skill, and team work.

RECREATION

TO THE LADIES! 581

>£>Xl>>13>XFZl>

 

54>th1>>1>2$

ACTUAL PHOTO OF TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS IN USE AT GRAND CENTRAL PALACE.
NEW YORK CITY. THE LARGEST INDUCTION CENTER IN THE WORLD!

Two-Way Bowling Alleys are now in use all over the United

States and on many war fronts. by the Army. Navy. Marines.
Merchant Marine. Coast Guard.WACS. U.S.O. Clubs. and "Y's."

Score sheets furnished free. through the courtesy of
Raleigh Cigarettes, to all branches of the Allied Services and

U. S. 0. Centers using TWO-WAY BOWLING Alleys.

Two-WAY BWLING 60RPORATIUN

Telephone LExington 2-8828

0 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
H4 East 32nd Street. New Yorlt

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi—

tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..

Address ............................................................ ..
C ity ...................................... .. State ................ ..

 

0 NEW YORK. N. Y. o

@

 

- To the Ladies!
(Continued from page 547)

which so many of these famous women advocated
in their crusades for higher education. Thus, a
plate of old-fashioned sandwiches cut in the shapes
of the illustrious women might be placed before a
sign reading, “Psychology course—register here.”
A gayly arranged platter of carrot strips, celery,
and homemade pickles will come under the head-
ing of “Botany classes.” Beside the sign reading
“Geography,” place steaming cups of coffee, tea,
or hot chocolate.

And just to add a decorative touch in honor of
the women suffragettes, how about cardboard
boxes draped in red, white, and blue crepe paper
and lettered “Ballot Boxes.” These can be filled
with crunchy, homemade cookies, bright red ap—
ples, and assorted hard candies.

All good things must come to an end, so a few
minutes before your guests are ready to leave, a

JANUARY 1944

few choruses of “God Bless America” and “The
Star-Spangled Banner,” sung by everyone will
supply the perfect departure note.

You Asked for It!

( Continued from page 574)
organizations may have the use of parts of school

buildings on permit from the schools direct or a
local recreation department. Baltimore has a very
good arrangement under which there is no rental
but simply the payment of a $10 breakage fee from
which the school people would be reimbursed in
the event of damage. The responsibility for issu-
ing the permit is lodged with the Department of
Recreation.

Finally, I would like to suggest consideration of
the employment, possibily under the partial auspices
of the Council, of directors or workers at large.
Such workers, as in San Francisco, are directly
employed by the municipal recreation department
and operate in more diliicult neighborhoods of the _

582 THE “ C 0 OP”

7

WHAT IS YOUR
CITY’S SCORE?

DO you know what your city’s rating would

be on its playgrounds, playlields, and in-
door recreation facilities?

If you don’t, look for the answers to a num-
. ber of important questions you might well ask
E yourself in a new pamphlet, Standards for
: Neighborhood Recreation Areas and Facilities,
which presents basic principles, outlines, stand-
ards, and discusses Agencies Concerned with
Recreation, the Importance of Cooperation,
and Securing Results. Price 15 cents.

A digest of this pamphlet is available under
the title, Standards—Playgrounds, Playfields,
Recreation Buildings, Indoor Recreation Fa-
cilities. Price 10 cents.

Both of these pamphlets may
be ordered from

National Recreation Association
3:5 FOURTH AVENUE

New York IO. N. Y.

III-I-I-I-I-II-I-l-I-IIII-III-III-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-IL

A

city. Their job is to discover boys and girls before
they get too deeply into trouble and relate them
to existing agencies, public or private, in order to
find for the youngsters constructive interests. They
deal with both groups and individuals. They are
particularly effective in delinquency prevention.

The—T'Coop"

(Continued from page 539)

Since only a week remained before the opening
of the new center, many of the adults interested in
the project were doubtful whether the center could
be open on that date. But not the young people!
The clean—up committee immediately secured the
help of Mr. E. F. Furth, manual training teacher at
the Senior High School, and went to work. One
hundred and fifty members and their friends at-
tended the opening dance, which officially launched
the Coop in its new quarters and initiated the fall
and winter activities. It was unanimously voted
that the entertainment committee selected to con-
duct the dance did a “grand job”!

Following the opening of the center, many meet-
ings of the Junior Board have been held at which
policies have been formulated and committees ap-
pointed.

 

Functioning Committees

A membership and door committee responsible for
keeping up the membership and for checking in
members at the entrance to the clubrooms

A committee to take charge of Saturday morning
cleaning

A committee on sales of soft drinks at the bar

A committeeto supervise the game room

Rules of the Coop

All application blanks from new members must
be endorsed by a member of the Coop.

Membership cards issued each month shall be
of a different color to make checking at the door
easier. ’

Absolutely no gambling will be permitted.

Each member should carry his membership card
with him, and when signing out for game equip-
ment release the card as security.

Bottle tops may be used only at the card tables.

A guest may be brought once but will not be
admitted again unless he becomes a member.

All servicemen will be admitted free.

The Junior Board has the right 'to expel any
member who does not cooperate in keeping these
rules or maintaining the Coop headquarters a
place to be proud of. A warning will be given, but
if a second offense occurs membership will be
taken away.

Recent Developments

The director of recreation has been selected
treasurer of the Coop, and all checks are counter-
signed by either the president, secretary, or mem-
bership chairman.

Parents and friends of members of the Coop
have donated fioor and table lamps, chairs, couches,
curtains, and other articles of furniture. Although
the help of these adults is greatly appreciated, the
young people themselves have assumed responsi-
bility through the Junior Board for policies, plans,
and management. They believe that the success or
failure of the center rests entirely on their should-
ers. The club is theirs. It is something they ,all
want, and they are solidly behind it. They are,
however, considering asking adults to serve on a
Senior Board and are working in problems of re-
lationships.

During the first month the membership grew to
236 and the following functions were held 5 dances
after home high school football games and a har-
vest dance. The entertainment committee is plan-
ning a hay ride, and a “Hen—Brings—Rooster”
party Thanksgiving eve.

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 583

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

T he American City, November 1943

War Recreation in Colorado Springs, by George L.
Nichols

National Humane Review, November 1943

Emotional Responses of Children to Animal Stories,
by Ursula Bringhurst

PAMPHLETS
A Procedure for Community Post-War Planning

Jobs and production at war’s end. Albert Lea, Min-
nesota, charts 3. course. Chamber of Commerce
of the United States, Washington, D. C.

A Treatise on Swimming Pool Design, by Louis J. Day
and C. E. Stedman with the cooperation of the Engi-
neering and Research Departments of the Josam Manu-
facturing Company, Cleveland, Ohio. Price $1.00

“A mericans All—Immigrants All”

U. S. OHice of Education, Educational Radio Script
and Transcription Exchange, Washington, D. C.
A series of 26 thirty-minute dramatizations pre-
senting the story of the contributions of various
cultural groups to the social, economic and politi-
cal deve10pment of the United States. Price per
program $4.75

Columbia Basin Joint Investigation, Washington: Rural
Recreational Areas and Plans

U.' S. Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the
Interior, Washington, D. C. 42 pp.

Communty Service

A review of eight years of community life at Hill-
side Homes, Bronx, N. Y. Price 50 cents

Games and Songs in Wartime

Wartime Recreation Committee, N. Y. State College
of Agriculture, Ithaca, N. Y.

000 Script Catalog, November 1943

Distributed by the Educational Script and Tran-
scription Exchange, U. 8. Office of Education,
Washington 25, D. C.

Old Age in New York City, by Helen Hardy Brunot

Welfare Council of New York City, 44 East 23rd
Street, New York 10

Puppets in Occupational Therapy, -by Marjorie Batchelder

Department of Fine Arts, Ohio State University,
Columbus 10, Ohio

Recreation in Cooperatives, by Ruth Chorpenning Norris

Reprint from The Journal of Educational Sociology,
April 1943

Recreation Tackles Wartime Problems, November 1943

Ninth annual report of the Chicago Recreation Com-
mission

Understanding Juvenile Delinquency

Children’s Bureau, Department of Labor, Washing-
ton, D. C. Publication 300

JANUARY 1944

 

 GoldSmith

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, lnc.

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., (iNClNNATl, OHIO

The Stars and Stripes Revue
(Continued from page 571)

primary purpose of the club is to give young peo-
ple interested in the theater as a hobby an oppor-
tunity to enjoy dramatics under trained super-
vision. Some of the members are taking an inter—
est in the activity for the first time. Others have
been members for several years. Recruits for the
shows are often found among church and school
groups, as well as in local department stores and
industries.

Many recruits are “discovered” in the Amateur
Nites which are presented outdoors on the play—
grounds. These shows draw a heavier attendance
than any other activity at Elizabeth’s playgrounds.
Spotlights, gay costumes, dancing, singing, music,
and comedy combine to make these programs gala
and satisfying affairs.

The Amateur Nite is not only a culmination of
the summer playground season for groups inter-
ested in dramatics, but it frequently is the major
event in the entire playground program. The
Dramatic Club then offers an opportunity for tal-
ented performers to follow up this special interest
in a supervised group. And at the same time, such

584

Are

AND III

PART [I Yum Warm

ITEN you need JUNIOR
ARTS 8t ACTIVITIES, the magazine of
IDEAS and PLANS! This monthly publica-
tion contains b0th methods and project ideas
for carrying out many unusual acrivities.
There are arts and crafts suitable for use with
children from the kindergarten through junior
high school.

Each issue of JUNIOR ARTS & ACTIVITIES
Stresses the use of arts and crafts to mOtivate
and to correlate. It is no idle statement that
while working with their hands children can

be trained in the fine habits of democratic
citizenship.

Because many art and craft materials formerly
available cannot now be obtained, recreational
and craft directors will find the practical sug-

gesrions contained in JUNIOR ARTS &
ACTIVITIES a great help.

only

$3.00 for a year's subscription
(10 issues)

Jubrcribe today

Junior ARTS 8r ACTIVITIES

46|6 North Clark Street
Chicago 40, IIIinois

HE WORKS TO PREVENT DELINQ UENCY

a club provides a medium for informing the public
about the drama activity of the Recreation Depart-
ment.

The army shows put on by the Club have been
in constant demand throughout the state. Di—
rector Orlando believes it is because of their essen-
tial simplicity. He insistsgthat a talented amateur
group possesses the light‘touch, enthusiasm, and
naturalness that captivates audiences. In army
camps the youngsters often come up against hard—
ened show watchers, but they soon “melt.” This
revue of youth, beauty and talent has the spon—
taneity and love of pure fun which professional
performers often lack. In these qualities an ama-
teur group has the advantage—enthusiasm, nat-
uralness, freshness, and vigor. And the trOUpers
from Elizabeth’s Midtown Community Center are
giving the Army a regular two-hour demonstration
of amateur talent at its best. ’

He Works to Prevent Delinquency

(Continued from page 558)
police office, which is located in an oHice building

and not near the jail. The boy denied stealing the
articles, but after an hour with the chief of police,
decided he should return all of the articles to the
local merchants. Within twenty-four hours the
boy had returned or made arrangements to pay for
stolen property from twelve of the local merchants,
some of whom did not know he had stolen from
them.

Mr. Janes is able to gain the cooperation of the
merchants and the newspaper so that the public
understands his program. Sullivan is in need of
some type of community recreation and the chief
of police is trying to organize a recreation board.
He hopes to have this board work out a program
similar to the teen town program of other cities.

The Division for Delinquency Prevention of the
State of Illinois is cooperating wholeheartedly with
Mr. Janes, and under its auspices he speaks before
civic organizations and other groups.

Recreation and Industry
(Continued from page 557 )

reation program is not doing “business as usual.”

Today, in this comprehensive program, physical
fitness groups are functioning. Phases of the
Victory Corps program are being carried out in
school and recreation groups. Furniture repair
and the making of articles for home use now have
a real significance in crafts. Music and morale go
hand in hand. An audio-visual program of movie

RECREATION

WILMINGTON CREATES A RECREATION DEPARTMENT 585

shorts brings a message weekly to adult groups.
These sessions are followed by old-time get—to-
gethers, professionally known as “social recreation”
periods.

Recently the department has taken over the. in-
auguration, organization, and supervision of full
time nursery schools operated for children whose
parents are at work during the day. Also a full-
time food economist has been added to the staff in
conjunction with the sponsoring of a broad nutri-
tion program and the organization of “Health for
Victory” clubs.

And so it goes, but most significant of all is the
fact that during the second year of the program,
just completed, there has been a 30 per cent in-
crease in participations among an estimated popu-
lation of 30,000.

Making Reports

Industry quite properly expects the recreation
house to be kept in order. It deserves to be in-
formed through clean-cut publicity .and reports on
the progress of the program. Policies and projects
should be pictured in an interesting way. From
the department’s point of view, this is sound prac-
tice. Comparative activity, as well as functional
classification costs, are significant. Facts such as
“one out of every three persons participates” rep-
resent pertinent information. Simple human inter—
est stories often outweigh dry statistics.

Good publicity encourages observation of activi-
ties as well as participation. Recreation, when at-
tractively packaged, has news value to the radio
and press. In the program described, three weekly
newspapers devote separately a page to depart-
mental activities.

When the enthusiasm of management, engen—
dered by such methods, reaches the point that a
sound film with commentator, depicting the pro-
gram, is produced, it is evident that these efforts
are not in vain.

In summary it can be stated that here is a com-
pany which, from the beginning, was established
through the cooperative efforts of employees and
management. Throughout the years, as the com-
pany grew and developed, so did the communities
in which the employees lived. Education, health,
welfare, housing, and other community services
were expanded. It was only logical that recreation
should fit into this plan of development—recrea-
tion—not primarily for increased production,
morale, physical Fitness, or safety —— but recreation
for what it means to the people and their children.

JANUARY 1944

Wilmington Creates a
Recreation Department

HE CITY COUNCIL of Wilmington, North Caro-

lina, included in its 1943-44 budget an item of
$16,000 with which to establish and operate the
city’s first complete Recreation Department. Jesse
A. Reynolds, former Superintendent of Recreation
for Richmond, Virginia, was appointed to the posi-
tion of Superintendent of Recreation and began to
organize the department on August 23, 1943.
Among his first tasks was included a complete
survey of the city’s recreation facilities, neighbor-
hood resources, and potentialities in connection
with application for federal funds under the Lan-
ham Act. The application was approved in Octo-
her, and a $38,810 grant was made available
November 1, 1943, to supplement city funds in
giving recreation opportunities to Wilmington’s
many defense workers, armed service personnel,
and. other citizens of the community.

At the present time the staff of the Recreation
Department is composed of twenty-four persons
including, among others, the Superintendent, one
supervisor, eight full-time directors, and eight part-
time directors. Supervised programs for children
have been started each afternoon from 3 :00 to
6:00 at six locations. In addition, dancing instruc-
tion is offered persons of all ages at different times
during the week, and night programs are scheduled
at seven centers five days per week for adults and
teen-agers above sixteen years of age.

The r'éady cooperation of the County School
Board, which operates all the city schools, has
proved very helpful in making available school
playgrounds and other facilities for use by the city
Recreation Department. Similarly, the local Hous-
ing Authority has turned the recreation facilities
at its four community centers in the city over to
the Recreation Department for supervision and
use in carrying out its program. The Authority
maintains the buildings and furnishes some of the
equipment while the Recreation Department plans
the activities. The cooperation between the city
Recreation Department on the one hand and the
County School Board and the Housing Authority
on the other is a fine example of constructive in—
tergovernmental relationships.

The city has been divided into neighborhood
centers, each with its own advisory council com-
posed of six or eight citizens, including two from
the teen age group and one or two from older age

386

Attention! Recreation Leaders
[In You Have These Important Books?

Arts and Crafts: A Practical Handbook

By Mancuemre Icms

A recent reviewer says: “This book is so diversified
in content that anyone could profit by its instruc-
tion.” It is a manual of first importance, a compre-
hensive reference book for both beginners and teach-
ers. Detailed directions and plentiful illustrations,
patterns and diagrams cover a variety of subjects
including Pottery, Leathercraft, Weaving, Puppetry,
Metalcraft, Papercraft, Silk Screen, Textile Printing,
Whittling, Printing Press and Bookbinding. An ex-
cellent bibliography is included. Here is a book that
should be at hand for ready reference by every rec-

reation leader.
6” x 9”, Cloth, Illustrated, $3.00

Nature in Recreation

By MARGUERITE ICKIS

If you want to introduce nature to boys and girls
in a friendly, intimate fashion, this is the book for
you. The author makes nature study fun by correlat-
ing it with camping, handicraft, games, dramatics,
music, dancing and aquatics. Every point is clearly

explained and illustrated.
6” x 9”, Paper, Illustrated, $1.00

It’s Fun to Make Things

By MARTHA PARKHILL and DOROTHY SPAETH

In this appealing book the authors show how to
make useful articles from inexpensive and often dis-
carded materials. All the steps in making each article
are described briefly and clearly and, with the help
of the fine illustrations, anyone can follow them
easily. Craft leaders will find that children will wel-
come these crafts as real fun and will be proud of
the finished articles.

8vo. Cloth, Illustrated, $2.00
The Party Book

By llIARY BREEN

Here is a complete handbook of what to do and
how to do it on every social occasion. It contains party
programs for young and old, for special occasions and
holidays, for novelty dances with costumes and dec-
orations, for banquets, picnics and outdoor parties,
and for formal and informal gatherings. Its completely
planned menues and exact recipes are invaluable to
the party planner. No recreation leader should be
without this valuable book.

8vo. Cloth, Illustrated, $2.50

The Children’s Party Book
By MABY Bases:

This is a how-to-do and how-to-make book of games,
decorations and favors. Each party is planned com-
pletely from the time the party is first thought of to
the moment when the last guest leaves. Suggestions
are given for party settings, but the book is full of
ideas which can be adapted for rainy days or other
times when children gather. Most of the invitations,
decorations and favors are the kind the children can
make themselves. The text is fully illustrated with
specific as well as decorative drawings.

8vo. Cloth, Illustrated, $2.50

0
Send for new complete catalogue

A. S. BARNES AND COMPANY
67 West 44th Street New York 18, N. Y.

DRAMA IN JUVENILE DELINQUENCY PREVENTION

groups. Athletic leagues are being formed and
their teams will compete in such sports as basket-
ball, volley ball, touch football, and baseball.

In addition to the activities mentioned the Rec-
reation Department has taken over the operation
of the municipally-owned golf course. Similarly, it
now operates a center for men in the armed forces
on a seven day per week basis. This service center
was one of the first in the nation constructed from
local funds for local operation.

Drama in Juvenile Delinquency

Prevention
(Continued from page 564)

The third year, Miss Annie Mitchell, an ele-
mentary teacher enthusiastic over juvenile crea-
tive work, guided the dramatic activity. The clos-
ing project was “Plantation Days,” a two act play
written, costumed, and staged by seventh and
eighth grade actors. One young carpenter fright-
ened us by gashing a finger as he made properties,
and the costumers pricked fingers in spite of care-
ful instruction by their home economics teacher.
But the play was a great success. Admission, at
fifteen cents a family, as in the case of the Indian
pageant added many dollars to the “Fund.”

Next, a year of nature study and collecting was
climaxed by an exhibition of hobbies. and a dra-
matic program on Theodore Roosevelt’s birthday.
Awards were purchased from the fund.

Other plays followed— “Merrie England in
Sherwood Forest,” W. B. Yeats’ “Land of the
Heart’s Desire,” and many more: Members of our
adult Community Players, some of them formerly
professional actors, gave invaluable assistance at
“polishing off” time.

By this time high schools, colleges, and board-
ing schools were claiming many of our fine young
actors; Miss Mitchell became an English teacher
in the high school. So we shifted our emphasis to
older members of the community and founded
Visalia’s Creative Arts Fellowship, now in its
eighth year, with groups in creative writing, music,
drama, arts and crafts, nature craft, and thread-
craft. _

Perhaps we weren’t altogether successful in at-
taining our objective where juvenile delinquency
was concerned—so many steps are involved in
bringing about any desirable human achievement.
But we did prove to our satisfaction that one of

the fundamentally important steps is organized
dramatic fun!

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Arts and Crafts: A Practical Handbook

By Marguerite Ickis. A. S. Barnes & Company, New
York 18, New York. $2.50.
IN THIS VOLUME the author has given us a book which
presents simple basic techniques and which will serve as
an exceedingly helpful reference book for beginners and
for craft program directors. Miss lckis first suggests
how to start a craft program and gives some information
on design and color. From that point on the book is
devoted to a practical presentation of a number of crafts
and how to do them. Among these crafts are papercraft,
block printing, silk screen printing, a hand printing press,
bookbinding, weaving, leathercraft, woodworking, metal
work for beginners, pottery and puppetry. The explicit
directions and suggestions given to go with the many
illustrations make this a truly practical hand-book.

Children's Games from ‘Many Lands

By Nina Millen. Friendship Press, New York City.
$1.00.

HERE ARE two hundred and sixty-two games from

fifty-five different countries described in this book.
Many of them represent new play material from such
far-away-places as Iran, Burma and Liberia. Games
played by the American Indians, Southern Mountaineers,
French Canadians and Eskimos are included.

Recreation leaders seeking new material will find this
volume full of suggestions and in playing the games
described, children of the United States will gain knowl-
edge about the play ways of children of other lands.

Bowling for All

By Joe Falcaro and Murray Goodman. -A. S. Barnes 8:
Company, New York 18, New York. $1.00.

THE HISTORY and principles of bowling, the necessary
equipment, the various types of deliveries, and similar
techniques are given in the volume. Other matters cov-
ered include the subject of bowling etiquette,.how to win
'at duck pins, and the part women have taken in the
games. Rules and regulations of the American Bowling
Congress are given as are records and championships.

The Knapsack Book

Compiled by Frederick Drimmer. Greenberg: Publisher,
New York City. $1.50.

HERE IS A BOOK for servicemen containing in a handy-

to-carry volume enough material for many 'hours Of
solid entertainment. There are mystery stories, jokes,
and cartoons, pencil and paper games, crossword puzzles,
true and false statements, quizzes, anagrams, word puz-
zles, mental antics, favorite songs and poems and other
material designed to provide Uncle Sam’s Armed Forces

with something enjoyable to do and something enjoyable
to read.

lANUARY 1944

Music for All of Us

BnyS ngpold Stokowski. Simon and Schuster, New York.
2. .

H.AT|MUSIC CAN MEAN to the human Spirit and how
its values can be attained are presented by Mr. Sto-
kowski in this book which opens the door to an apprecia-
tion of 'music through the author’s interpretation of the
“architecture” of music. That music is a birthright in
which all can freely share is Mr. Stokowski’s thesis and

he develops it in a way which even a man untrained in
musical techniques can understand.

Airplanes and How They Fly

By Marshall McClintock. Frederick A. Stokes Company,
New York City. $2.00

HIS PRIMER 0N AVIATION is addressed to younger boys

and girls who want to understand why and how a
plane fiys. It contains a brief history of man’s conquest
of the air, a clear statement of the principles of aerody-
namics, describes the chief types of planes, and offers an
exciting glimpse of planes of the future.

The Free Company

Edited by James Boyd. Dodd, Mead 8: Company, New
York City. $2.00.

" HE FREE COMPANY” is an organization of outstanding
American writers who volunteered to contribute their
talents and abilities to dramatize the meaning of America.
In doing this each one wrote a radio play about a differ-
ent aspect of Americanism such as freedom Of speech
and of the press and racial freedom. These plays were
broadcast weekly, and as one followed another gained a
tremendous audience throughout the land.
In addition to the plays, production experts of the
Columbia Broadcasting Company have supplied a prac—
tical supplementary section showing how the plays can be

presented by schools, amateur groups, community centers
and private homes.

A Reader's Guide to Education

National Education AssOciation, Washington, D. C.

His PAMPHLET sponsored cooperatively by the Na—

tional Education Association and the Book—of—the-
Month Club presents an annotated, classified and selected
list of books about the background and problems of
American education. The books were chosen by the poll
of educators and librarians conducted by the National
Education Association. It contains an introduction by
Dorothy Canfield Fisher. Copies of the pamphlet are
obtainable from the National Education Association,
1201 Sixteenth Street, N. ‘W., Washington 6, D. C., at

no cost except five cents for mailing, which should be
enclosed in the request.

9

587'

588 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

The Health of Children in Occupied Europe.
International Labor Office, Montreal, Canada. 25

cents.

As the first survey of its kind in the field this report
of the alarming situation in which the occupied countries
find themselves merits careful study. Thelreport describes
conditions and presents the problems which will have to
be faced immediately after the war in rebuilding the
health of the children of Eur'ope.

Square Knot, Tatting, Fringe and Needle Work.

By Raoul Graumont and John Hensel. Cornell Mari-
time Press, 241 West 23rd Street, New York City.

$1.50.

When the rudiments of square knotting have been mas—
tered the most intricate designs may be worked out, even
by the beginner. Among the deSIgns that appear in this
book, many of them for the first time, are various types
of handbags, belts, camera cases, Cigarette cases, wrist-
watch straps, slippers, mats, and other articles. Full-
page illustrations accompany every section of the text.

Painting for Beginners.

Jan Gordon. Halcyon House, Garden City, New
York. $1.49.

The fundamentals of color, composition, and technique
are simply and fully explained in_ this book for beginners,
and there are nineteen reproductions of famous paintings
which represent many different artistic phases and tech—
niques. These are discussed by the author in detail both
from the point of view of their own intrinSic merit and
the lessons which they teach.

The Technique of Stage Make-Up.

By Jack Stuart Knapp. Walter H. Baker Company,
Publishers, Boston, Massachusetts. $1.50.

The material in this booklet, which represents much
research on the part of the author and many years of
practical experience, is presented in so clear a manner
that even a novice can become proficient in the applica-
tion of make-up. General principles of make-up are out—
lined and these are followed by a description of all the
various types and techniques of make—up.

Rounds and Canons.

Arranged and Edited by Harry Robert Wilson. Hall
& McCreary Company, Chicago, IllmOIS. $.60.

Such famous rounds as “Three Blind Mice,” :Are
You Sleeping?” and “Row, Row, Row Your Boat, are
to be found in this collection, but there are also a number
of new compositions which will be great fun for your
party. Some of the canons included _are among the treas-
ures available in this form. Mr. Wilson has suggested a
number of methods of singing the rounds and canons.

Fun with a Pencil.

By Andrew Loomis. The Viking Press. $3.00.

It is Mr. Loomis’ belief that the average person can
easily learn to draw, and accordingly he presents a Simple
step-by-step method which has proved its practical worth
with many individuals who were _sure they were totally
lacking in ability. Hundreds of illustrations and a few
simple sentences lead the reader almost without his know-
ing into a new field of expreSSion.

20 Prize-Winning Non-Royalty One-Act Plays.

Compiled by Betty Smith. Greenberg: Publisher.
$2.50.

As varied as the theater itself are the types of plays
assembled in this volume. They have been carefully
selected from a large number of plays which have won
awards, and among the playwrights represented are Paul
Green, Fred Koch, J r., Maxwell AnderSOn, Barrett Clark,
Josephina Niggli, and other well-known writers. All the
plays in the volume may be produced Without royalty
payments by amateur groups who do not charge admiSSion.

Christian Youth in Wartime Service.

By Herbert L. Minard. The International Council of

Religious Education, 203 North Wabash Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois. $.10.

The suggestions offered in this little guide for com-
munity action are applicable to all young people who
want to serve their communities in wartime and to find
personal satisfaction and growth through such service.
The value of recreation for the young people themselves,

as well as for those whom they are serving, is stressed
throughout.

The Theatre Book of the Year 1942-1943.

A Record and an Interpretation. By George Jean
Nathan. Alfred A. Knopf, New York. $3.00.

A survey of the American theater and its productions
from June 1942 to June 1943, this volume covers every
play produced professionally during this period and dis-
cusses typical plays in the various experimental theaters.
Mr. Nathan adds to the record of producers, actors, and
performances his own pointed criticism and his own
nominations for the best plays of the season.

Educators Guide to Free Films.

Compiled and edited by Mary Foley Herkeimer and
John W. Diffor. Educators Progress League, Ran-
dolph, Wisconsin. $3.00.

The third annual edition of this annotated guide lists
over 2,000 films, most of which are 16 mm. silent and
sound, though more than 500 are 35 mm. silent and sound
films. Three thousand five hundred thirty reels are in-
cluded and about 150 slide films. Among the subjects
under which films are classified are Wartime Education,

Applied Arts, Fine Arts, Health Education, Language
Arts, Science, and Social Studies.

Songs of Liberty.

Robbins Music Corporation, 799 Seventh Avenue,
New York. $.15.

Songs pOpular in a number of wars, patriotic songs,
songs of the Navy, Marines, Sea'bees, Army Engineers,
and Air Force have been brought together in this collec-
tion of more than forty songs.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAHS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEHIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUGHER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBE‘I‘T, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUHHER Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. L, N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
Mas. N DRHAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASRELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind. ’
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBv, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
SUSAN M. LES, Boston, Mass.
OTTo T. MALLE‘RY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGHUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

REDERICR M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

" RECREATION

Every Child

Every child should know a hill,

And the clean joy of running down its long slope
With the wind in his hair.

He should know a tree —

The comfort of its cool lap of shade,

And the supple strength of its arms
Balancing him between earth and sky

So he is the creature of both.

He should know bits of singing water ~— -
The strange mysteries of its depths,

And the long sweet grasses that border it.

Every child should know some scrap

0f uninterrupted sky, to shout against;
And have one star, dependable and bright,
For wishing on.

—Edna Casler Jolt in Ladies’ Home Journal.

Used by permission.

WHO WILL SIGN THIS CHECK?

NEW YORK ML“)

WGTWW Gunman

"Em BEA” Emma

 

A New Year’s gift to the children of our country.

IRVING TRUST COMPANY

Main Office

ONE WALL STREET

Branches

WOOLWORTH BUILDING 4.2ND STREET AT PARK AVENUE
218T STREET AT FIFTH AVENUE 46TH STREET AT PARK AVENUE

EMPIRE STATE BUILDING 48TH ST. AT ROCKEFELLER PLAZA

Member Fedenl Deposit Insurance Corpontion

