 

Franklin D. Roosevelt

N THE DEATH of Franklin D. Roosevelt the Association has lost a
I strong supporter who was ever ready to place his full strength
back of the recreation movement. As a young man, as a volunteer
he raised money for the Association. As Assistant Secretary of the
Navy in the First World War he was most sympathetic, under-
standing. and helpful in aiding the worlc the Association was called
upon to organize and carry on in communities in behalf of men in

the Navy.

Long before he became President he was an honorary member
of the Association. As President he sent messages to the various
recreation congress gatherings and indicated his continuing desire

to help.

In his own right President Roosevelt believed in more abundant
living for all men and wished to do everything in his power to help

. individuals to achieve happiness in daily living.

No national leader, no world leader could have been willing
to do more on every possible occasion to be helpful in building the
recreation centers of America. One felt always a warmth of personal

interest.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

MAY I945 _‘  , 

57

.0

x.‘

Courtesy Tufts C' allege

RECREATION

 

Painting for Fun

it tops the list of crea—

tive hobbies. All ages
from one to one hundred
enjoy it indobrs or out, day
or night, at home or abroad,
,alone or with company, with
or without gasoline. It is a good answer to "What
shall I do with my leisure ?"

Painting is a simple language yet more potent
than words. When you start painting you see
things you never observed before; it is a startling
revelation. Inner meanings dawn on your con—
sciousness. Your sense of values and proportions
develops; your worries no longer seem important
—they take a back seat. This new interest is so all—
absorbing that nerves take care of themselves; you
haven’t time to bother with them. '

One good thing about this painting hobby is
that you will want to paint no matter where you
are. Subjects for your hrush are everywhere. In
the country there is always the old barn, every
painter’s meat; a curious animal looking you over
is only an interesting adventure. The seashore has
its sailboats and fishing shacks, and if you are
lucky enough to winter in Florida. there is the
allure of actually painting undersea. You do not
need to leave your own backyard, however, for
what is a more popular subject than the clothesline
on Monday morning. with its colorful array hung
out to dry?

Another point to bring out is that your painting
improves as you enjoy yourself. You may some
day see your pictures on the walls of an art gal—
lery; the thrilling climax is reached when a
stranger pays cold cash to own one.

PAINTING for the fun of

Learning the Language

It is fun from the First stroke of the brush; the
very colors stimulate you. Let everybody try his
hand at it, including grandmother and grand-
father. There is no age limit. You cannot judge
the age of the painter from his painting, so here is
your chance to forget how old you are.

Shall it be oils or water colors? It doesn’t mat—
ter. Water colors are easier to carry and much
easier to tear up if you paint a bad one. You
object to the paint’s running? That makes it all

MAY 1945

By GRACE PICKETT

Founder of the
Studio Guild. New York, N. Y.

the more intei‘estiugmdon't
stop it! See what it will do
by itself. They say the best
water colors are those with

llC-‘Je’r your brushI have your funl the most accidents. Acci—
and see where it leads you!"

dents, and knowing what to
do with them 1-— that is the
art of water-color painting.

If you revel in strong colors, use oils and plaster
them on the canvas, the thicker the better. As
accidents may happen with oils as well as with
water colors, you correctsa bad mistake, scraping
or wiping it out, but if accidentally you have given
birth to something of unexpected beauty, thank
God and go on painting.

In case this and that starts bothering you, why
not take a few lessons? Four may do the trick,
according to the N ew York Times. A recent arti-
cle told of a certain museum’s effort to popularize
painting by giving a free course of four lessons to
fifty adult beginners. At the end of the course the
would—be painters had the thrill of seeing their
pictures hanging on the museum walls. They had
learned the language.

Glimpse a New World

Translating a barn onto your paper or canvas
by means of paint is truly fun, but it does not stof)
there. You glimpse the soul of things and this
astonishing revelation transfigures you with an
ecstasy of delight. Although you struggle to cap-
ture the vision, you do not find it easy to get it
down in paint, for visions h‘ave fleeting ways.

And you will feel the tingle and force of life if.
with your brush, you try to catch the rhythm of
shimmering light on the water, the bending and
swaying of the long meadow grasses as the wind

' rushes through, or perhaps the interplay of sun—

shine and shadow on the distant hills. Never mind
what your canvas looks like after you finish, for
if you have had fun, that is all that matters.

Fun Wherever You Are

You will enjoy painting wherever you happen
to be. If during the summer you find yourself in
New England, you are in a painter’s paradise. It
abounds in quaint and picturesque subjects. Cov-
ered bridges, white churches with steeples point-

59

PAINTING FOR FUN

Courtesy 5mm» Guild, New Yark my

An oil painting, Bitches and Snow, by Celine Baekeland

ing towards heaven, and salt box houses with be anyone’s tale if a canvas has been set up in
rambling additions, all delight a painter’s heart. ' Farmer Brown’s meadow.

The peace of the countryside may be disturbed, You are at the top of a little hill with a good
however, and the following experience is likely to View of the old red barn and well along with your

RECREATION

 

PAINTING FOR FUN 61

work when—what’s th'at? A hot, moist breath is
blasted against the back of your neck. You are too
scared to move. A large tongue licks your cheek,
your hair. your arms; several more puffs of breath
and what was behind you is now at your side.
\Vorse than you thought—a huge bull! He takes a
look at your picture, decides he likes it and licks
the can vas clean. Awkwardly knocking your easel
over on the way, he ambles off down the hill into
your peaceful landscape. Why all the licking?
Bovines love paint. and you, as well as your can—
vas, wcre generously spattered with it.

You would like nothing better than in winter to
paint the snow on those rolling hills, but when
cold weather comes, if there is enough money for
a ticket, you board the train for the sunny South.
You are going to try undersea painting off the
Florida Keys. Your equipment—a diving helmet,
hose, and pump—costs you only a few dollars.

You hire a small boat to take you out to the
coral reefs. \Vearing an ordinary bathing suit,
sneakers with leaden soles to keep you from float-
ing away, carrying a metal easel, a piece of glass
for a palette and a palette knife, and a glass-
backed canvas, you are ready for the great ad-
venture. You submerge and enter a world of
breath—taking beauty—-—a world of color and rhythm
the like of which you have never seen before. It
is a weird world—its mountains, forests, and
flowers are made up of animals. The fishes that
play around you have personalities, and are not at
all like the fishes in an aquarium or those on ice
in a fish market. This is their world. They have
but one commandment, “Gobble, or be gobbled,”
and when they play hide-and—seek it is for keeps; if
a fish d'oesn’t hide, he is gobbled. Yes, fishes are
wonderful people. A lady fish may change her
costume simply by thinking about it. \Y e humans
may turn pink with embarrassment, pale with
fright, or red with anger, but our talent in color-
changing is not in the class with the fishes’.

Everything is so strangely beautiful it is hard
to decide what to paint first. You sit on a brain
coral and begin the portrait of a giant sponge,
highlighted by filtered sunshine.

You Don’t Need Money
You may return home from a vacation with a
stack of new paintings only to find that you have
no place to put them. Your pictures have been
accumulating for sometime, and now the walls are
plastered with them, closets are full, and the hall-
way is growing narrower by the week. What shall

MAY 1945

you do? Give them to friends for wedding pres—
ents? People don’t marry as fast as you can paint.
You ponder. You ask your painter friends what
they do with all their pictures. Bartering has solved
the problem for some of them—farm produce is
usually an acceptable exchange for a painting. A
luscious, dressed pig should merit a good land-
scape, and a still life might go for a couple of
chickens. One painter keeps her house freshly
papered and painted for an even trade with the
decorator.

Another answer to this universal problem of
painters, how to unload their surplus of pictures,
is the Purchase-Exchange which was started in
California in 1934. It works in this way: Doctor,
lawyer, merchant, butcher, baker, plumber, and
painter pool their resources with the exchange.
When a member needs paintings, for instance, he
is sent to the artist who interests him in taking
perhaps two thousand dollars’ worth of pictures.
The purchaser, if a plumber, for example, now
owes two thousand dollars’ worth of plumbing to
the exchange, while the painter has credit for this
amount which may be used for a new Buick road-
ster, his daughter’s trousseau, or a nest egg.

Why Not Exhibit?

Bartering is not a bad idea, but how about put-
ting on a show? You swear you have seen worse
paintings than yours in exhibitions. You start
reading art reviews in the newspapers; you enjoy
making the rounds of the art galleries to compare
your work with that of your contemporaries. You
decide to go ahead and the exhibition date is set.

The great day arrives. You are as nervous as a
prima donna making her Metropolitan Opera
debut. Why the guilty feeling? You haven’t com-
mitted a crime. You visit the gallery at a time
when your friends are not likely to be there. You
glance hastily around. A feeling of ’surprise comes
over you—you glow with pride! The paintings
never looked so well before. 3

Everyone likes to exhibit. Not so long ago an
important executive entered a New York gallery
with a mysterious looking satchel. He was a little
embarrassed about showing the contents which
proved to be bas-relief portraits of his pals. The
gallery liked them and exhibited them. The sculptor
survived the shock of seeing the likenesses of his
friends staring at him from a half-page spread in
the H crald Tribune. He had never had a lesson.
His sculpturing was purely for fun. The reviews

(Continued on page 102)

lt Fell to Earth; I Know Not Where

for centuries the Egyptians were

famous as mounted bowmen. Babylonians,
Persians and Scythians were adepts—in fact some
of the Scythians enjoyed whatever distinction
there was in defending the later Roman Emperors.
The Greeks and Romans used mercenary archers
from various Eastern nations, but it is not up to
us to quibble over that. The main idea to get
straight is that this bow and arrow stuff was nur-
tured in antiquity—it has demonstrated real stay—
ing power and don’t think for one minute that
you can toss it off as a passing fancy.

It is true that in the present or socially correct
form this art has acquired a few quirks that did
not hamper, let us say, the Seneca Athletic Club
circa I905. As practiced by the young and athletic
clubmen of that II2tll Street set it was Arrows
Uninhibited—but a lusty sport none the less.

In this field time has witnessed many changes
in material, from the charred wood (which pre-
dated the Stone Age’s chipped-rock arrow heads)
down to today’s matched sets. But a primitive
pursuit demands elemental or easy to get equip-
ment—and the Seneca’s gear was all of that. The
better bows of that particular period were fash-
ioned from the ribs of discarded umbrellas. One
umbrella: six (approximately) bows. The ar-
rows preferred were the supporting struts that ran
from the thumb pusher-upper to the rib itself. A
deft twist of these joined members and presto !—
you had one round of ammunition. A short length
of cord or twine was all else that Was required
and, thankfully, this was not on the rationed list.
Any storekeepe'r was good for a piece.

After thus stringing the bow, through the cour-
tesy of your local merchant, all was in readiness
and each archer was set for the joust or for the

practice session, according to the will of the
quorum.

ISHMAEL “became an archer,” and

If the latter was the order of the day, the next
decision was choice of mark or object. Targets
were not gaudy things, stuffed t0 bursting point
and strategically placed on ranges. Practically
anything in sight would do. The main problem was
to decide what not to shoot at, for even in those
days some objects were recognized as having cul-
tural value or entitled to immunity because of

62

By CURT SPRONG

their innate beauty, historic value, or
proximity to somebody’s window.
Suffice it to say that a well whanged umbrella
strut is as piercing as a shriek in the dead of night.
And have you ever heard a pane of glass clutter
up a parlor or dining room quietly?

The true American heritage links this weapon
with the Indian and, old snoop that he was, the
Indian early discovered the effectiveness of shoot-
ing silently from ambush. But even in those pre-
subway days I 12th Street was shy on fox holes or
natural screens, and camouflage had not as yet
been dreamed up. So this meant that the bow and
arrow was dehnitely an after dark instrument
when, shrouded by the cloak of night, the Seneeas
could roam from Amsterdam to Broadway and,
with abandon, take a few pot shots. True—this
time limitation cut down somewhat on targets, and
visibility hovered around ten above. But there
were always lamp posts.

Near-misses were unheard of and counted for
naught. To clip the cross bar where the lighter
hooked his ladder (when a maintenance job was
indicated and he could not just turn on the gas
and light up with his magic wand) was encourag—
ing. You were getting hot. When you pinged and
perhaps cracked the glass it was almost a sure
sign of immaturity or some physical shortcoming.
That called for an alibi—“he pushed me”—“didja
see what the wind done to that one ?" . . . or at
least a quick disclaimer that the shot was made by
some Seneca smaller than yourself.

But a direct hit—one that unseated the globe,
sent it crashing to the street with the pulverized
VVelsbach mantle frantically billowing in the night
air, and all in utter darkness—that, I give you,
was something.

When the fleeing shadows hnally reassembled
(at least one block away) the only question con-
sidered was which member was entitled to the
well won glory. He who hrst recovered his breath
made out a pretty strong claim but I doubt that
any was ever uncontested.

That was archery as we of the upper reaches of
New York’s Morningside Heights knew it. And
a right good sport it was. If nothing else it was a
great wind developer. The around-the-block relay
races. or the broad and high jumps held by the

RECREATION

IT FELL TO EARTH; I KNOW NOT IVHERE 63

club in McIntyre’s (next to Red Hoctor’s, please)
backyard called for perfect physical trim. One
had to keep in shape and no A.A.U. blank car-
' tridge ever started a picked field of sprinters with
- a faster, cleaner getaway than the shattering of
I} a boulevard beacon.
But a new day has come and with it, as in most
'- evolution, refinements. Maybe so! Yet, the deep-
' seated nostalgia of a bowman from way back
i- makes one reluctant to accept all changes as im-
‘ provements.
A target now
. (I c an still
I smell a mor-
_ tally wounded
_' lamppost with
unlit jet hissing
its own dirge)
I is a brilliant
J sheet with con-
centric circles
of different
colors. Sonie—
thing like, but
larger than the
' dart board in
almost any well
; run saloon.
\Vith this as a
basis the game
is all rigged up
with varying
point values for
each color area
——-a Sixth Ave—
nue shooting
gallery without
clay pipes, gong
bongs and free
c i g a r s. T h e
' sheet itself
covers a bale of
straw, and there
she stands just daring you to try
* to nail it. Forty, sixty, and 100
yards are the ranges shot and if you have never
stood in the shadow of your own goal posts, take
my word for it that 100 yards is a right fur piece
away.

They don’t use umbrellas any more. Bows are
six foot (and longer) jobs made of yew, the elastic
wood which for centuries (it is said) has been the
pride of archery addicts. What these, people claim

MAY 1945

Photo by W m. H. Rt'ttese

 

A mighty archer—modern style

can be done with them is positively amazing. And
it’s not any corner-market wrapping string they
use, either. No fisherman can spin more romance
about a line than can a true archer. The cord now
in vogue is a precious thing, worthy of a string of
perfect pearls; but too fat. It looks more like the
strings the stand—up guy way over at the left end
of the pit plunks on his bull fiddle.

As for arrows, you can forget all you know
about umbrella struts. Something new has been
added and these
are now pre-
cision instru—
m e n t s w i t h
plumage rare
at the hind-
q u a r t e r o r
steering end
a n d, a t t h e
other, a mur-
derous looking
steel snout. As
neat a combi-
nation of eye
appealand
lethal potential
as will be found
this side of a
mickey finn.

In ta r g e t
shooting you
11 s e a sight
which must be
capable of as-
tounding feats
of trig and bal—
listics. Nothing
like it was ever
seen on I 12th
Street where
the technique
was face your
quarry and cut
loose! Today you look through
this widgit—plant the bull’s-eye
right smack where X marks the spot—and for all
the world you feel that the arrow will plunge head-
long into the earth just clearing your own toes.

Don’t get the idea, however, that you are ready
to shoot now that you have mastered aiming. You -
are not dressed for it—and it can’t be done with-
out the proper make-up.

Courtesy Hood College

If “you are a right-hander, you strap on your left

64 IT FELL TO EARTH; I KNOW NOT LVHERE

arm a gadget which might offer some modicum of
protection. I wouldn’t know. But the thing itself
is intriguing. It is an inflexible piece of plastic
.which looks like something a first aider in a frenzy
might clamp on you. Or, it could remind you of a
misplaced shin guard for a midget. At any rate
this theoretically takes care of the arm used in
holding the bow. Your other hand—the one that
does the business—is bundled up in a fascinating
piece of leather. One end is strapped to the wrist
and then the rest of it dribbles around until you
are sort of wearing a cross between a tinker’s cuss
and a streamlined dumbwaiter glove. All of this
is to save your skin when you draw the string and
get ready to let her'rip.

Unquestionably you could find more gear if you
looked for it but I’ve been told that with this out-
fit you have what it takes and you should do an
adequate job. At least you are ready to try. But
don’t rush it.

Just like a few limbering wangles at the tee
before addressing the ball, an archer flexes about
a bit in a statuesque stance. The thing to do is to
strike an attitude, straddling the starting line. In
this game, by the way, they are not fussy and you
do not have to toe the mark as in pitching pennies.
Chinch a little. It is done by the more experi-
enced, and maybe that six or ten inches you clip
will mean the difference between hitting the target
or having a breathless and spent arrow give up and
droop into the dust directly in front thereof. Such
possibilities must be considered.

Then comes the draw. Carelessly aiming at the
sky, about a mile above the bull’s-eye, with a stiff
arm holding the bow as far away from you as
possible—take a couple of practice pulls, gently
releasing the pressure each time. Don’t shoot yet——
hang on to the rear end of the arrow or you’ll lose
the pesky thing. Then, like Dick Sureshot, calmly
lower the works until you have the geographical
center of the mark cased in the bombsight. Slowly
draw the string until your shooting hand is play-
fully chucking your chin. This makes for stability
——or something—and by now the weapon is tense
and so are you. Then wham away! And whether
you know it or not, you are having fun and right
there you classify yourself.

Present day archers, we have found, are divided
into two groups. The pin-up boys who can really
pour them into the painted rings, and the benders.
When you have completed your round and your
opponent has had his fling, it’s time to go up to
the target and get the news. The other fellow just

stands right in front of it, yanking out his arrows
and totalling the score. If you are a bender, how-
ever, you are prowling around, looking in the sur-
rounding stubble and brush for the near and not
so near misses. The stooping gets you and you
could use a caddy. At this point you might even
think the whole thing a bit childish— something
like pinning tails on a donkey by remote control.
Only it’s not as easy. This thing called a round,
incidentally, means that you have shot whatever
arrows were given you. But for those who know
the Hoyle of archery there are special combinations
of so many arrows at various distances. These are
catalogued as “York,” “St. Georges,” etc. Disre-
gard this completely until you can at least keep
them off the ground and sink a few of them in the
aproned haystack at 40 yards.

Going back to the starting line for a moment,
you will find a cross bar mounted on a post. This
is broad enough to hold a quart of beer, matches,
and a pack of cigarettes. Don’t lean on it—this is
where you park your bow while you step a re-
spectable distance away, suspending all animation
and giving your opponent the tops in courtesy. N 0
moving around, mind yon—not a twitch and no
talking under any circumstances. Just as in church,
absolute quiet.

This rule has been on the books for aeons and
probably explains the conception of the Indian war
whoop. It’s a defense mechanism. No one could
even hope for good shooting if he were in the
middle of a bunch of yelping Algonquins. Under
these conditions it automatically became their ad-
vantage and chances are the chief sent them into
the game with one last plea: “Talk it up, boys, or
you're stuck.” In shooting targets, though, none
but a cad would so much as heep.

It all seems easy but don’t be fooled even if you
have a whole block of lamp posts to your credit.
Just like Hoppe shooting billiards, the real bow-
man makes the thing look like a cinch and you
might get the wrong idea. Why, when Joe and
Tom both worked on my stance (making sure that

my feet were on the ground and my eyes on a

cloud), the president of a near—by club walked
over to the loo-yard range and almost with non-
chalance started pumping arrows into the bull’s-
eye. Gad, thought we, what a man like that could
have done with the rib of a beach umbrella!

For the run of the mill, however, this is a job
that will take a lot of mastering. As you flub shot
after shot———as you watch a perfectly straight arrow

(Continued on page 106)
RECREATION

The Birds and the Beasts

asr SUMMER in Baltimore,
L Maryland, in addition to
our usual crafts program
carried on by our regular recre-
tion leaders, we in Baltimore
were fortunate to have as a crafts instructor, Miss
Margery Kimball, an Art Major at College.

After careful consideration, it was decided not
to spread the program too thin but to go to only
five of the many playgrounds open in the city. It
was felt very decidedly that a better job would be
done if each ground were to be visited twice a week.
instead of covering more playgrounds only once a
week. No age limit was placed on the groups. The
only requisites were that the children should be
really interested in what they were
doing and should complete each
a rt i cl e th e y
started.

We did not
offer the chil-
dren a long list
of articles to
make, not only
because of the
great difficulty
in obtaining
materials, but
also because we
were so anxious
that the articles
the youngsters
t a k e h 0 m e
s h o u l d h a v e
some artistic
merit. We were
much better
able to keep
this under con-
trol by having
less variety in
articles. How—
ever, we tried
to choose wise-
ly and oEer
t h i n g s t h a t

would appeal to
all children.

MAY 1945

By KATHARINE DOUGLAS

Supervisor of Arts and Crafts
Department of Public Recreation
Baltimore, Maryland

The youngest "customer" to
malce a turtle was only six

 

So—in fear and trembling we
offered the girls stuffed toys and
embroidery and were delighted
when the children showed plainly
that they loved the little turtles,
rabbits and donkeys as much as we did. The toys,
of particularly attractive design, are Miss Kim-
ball's originals. They are very simply made as you
can see from the photograph and should be a
source of inspiration to many to originate their
own toy designs. Our youngest “customer” last
summer to make a turtle was aged six. The chil—
dren were encouraged to choose their own color
combinations and in most instances chose wisely
in combining plain and print materials.

The girls also liked the embroid-
ery we originated for them much

better than the

..  I .. ., usual stamped

.' 5 pieces they had
done before. we
dyed unbleach-
ed muslin, then
let them choose
from designs
w e h a d . O f
course we wish-
ed very much
that the designs
could have been
original ones of
the children, but
did not feel that
they were ready
for that. How-
ever, the de-
signs chosen
were new and
g a y a n d a c-
q u a i n t e d t h e
children with a
more modern
type of design.
0 n l y t w o
stitches were
used, simple

(Confimwd on
page 109)

65

Relax on Two Gallons of Gas

URBANK, CALIFORNIA, has
been faced with the same
wartime problem as all other

communities in the congested war
production areas. How to pro—
vide wholesome relaxation for the entire family
.while conforming to travel restrictions has been a
challenge to the initiative and ingenuity of both
executive and worker in recreation. Accepting
this challenge, the Parks and Recreation Commis—
sion members set about planning a program which
would meet the vital need of emergency war work-
ers and their families as well as the fixed popula—
tion of the community.

The 1944 program incorporated the best from
that of 1943 with numerous additions and when
the 1945 season opens in the city park areas both
Burbank citizens and “strangers within our gates”
.can look forward to another interesting summer at

.home.

Program Design

Basically the program is the same in all areas,
with such variations and additions as it has been
possible to improvise in enlarging the facilities in
the parks. Trained workers are on duty from 8 :30
A.M. to 6:30 P.M. to direct the activities, thus en—
abling working parents to leave their youngsters
with safety in the playgrounds all day, .picking
them up after work. Over-all supervision is in
charge of a recreation supervisor who travels to
the playgrounds each day, offering new ideas and
coordinating those already active. Staff meetings
are held each week wherein all activities are judged
in relation to the numbers participating.

Program Dissemination

To make sure that everyone knows what the
city has to offer in the form of recreation, the
plans are' given wide publicity well before the
opening of the season. Local newspapers give much
space to news stories which tell in detail of the
various activities, and these are carried on through-
out the summer so that no one can say, “I didn’t
know about that.”

Each year every user of water or electricity in
the community is made aware of the program
through the Public Service Department by en-

66

By C. L. TOMSCHE
President
Board of Parlts and Recreation

City of Burbank, California

closures in their June water and
light bills. The 1944 issue was
titled “Relax on Two Gallons of
Gas.” These comprehensive twelve
page folders are prepared and
printed by the Parks and Recreation Department
in cooperation with the city schools and all recre-
ational agencies in the city are included. A small
map shows where the play areas are located, both
parks and schools, and a carefully drawn “activity
schedule” provides the key to the map. Three
pages are given to special events and highlights of
the summer program.

Supplementing this over-all coverage and de-
signed to appeal to the youngsters, a special “Ra-
tion Book for Fun” was made up by the members
of the recreation staff and distributed through the
schools and youth organizations throughout the
community. Each park had a page made up of
small “coupons” describing the various activities
and a whole page of “spares” covered the special
events in all the parks. The back of the book, all
of which was mimeographed, carried other im—
portant information designed to direct attention
and interest to the culminating field day at the
close of the summer program.

Public awareness of the program has been given
first importance in the Burbank area, upon the
theory that many well designed recreation pro-
grams lose a great deal of effectiveness by im-
proper or inadequate publicity. The Burbank
Commissioners feel that, in these times particu—
larly, it is no longer enough to provide a good
program; the community must be made aware of
the services offered if those services .are to reach
the greatest number. A full time public relations
person is now felt to be an indispensable part of
the staff and the result has been a doubling of the
use of facilities in terms of numbers served.

Special Events

Special events, designed to bring the whole
family into the parks and playgrounds for neigh—
borhood get-togethers, are planned for each month.
A “Neighborhood Night” starts off the season by
giving the parents an opportunity to get acquainted
with the area directors and park facilities. A pic-
nic supper gets everybody “loosened up” and is

RECREATION

—-. --- - -*I-“' —-*_— -—

RELAX ON TWO GALLONS OF GAS 67

followed by competitive sports
and games. These “Neighbor—
hood Nights” are “held together”
with a concert by the sixty piece
community band, colorful dance
numbers by members of the rec-
reational winter—season dancing
groups and an impromptu use of
the neighborhood talents on a
“what have you" basis.

A newly developed community
symphony orchestra will be an
important part of the 1945 pro-
gram, the two winter concerts
having proven very popular. The
group now contains seventy mu—
sicians and several open air con-
certs are planned for the summer
season.

A victory garden and vegetable
show has been a part of the pro—
gram in the war years and last
year a flower arrangement show
was added. This addition was
turned over to the capable man-
agement of the garden section of the Women’s
Club of Burbank, who in turn invited groups from
the surrounding communities to participate. Judges
for both events were experts in their lines. The
vegetables and gardens were judged by early day
local farmers. There was no admission charge to
the show, which was held in one of the larger rec-
reation buildings, and it provided not only recre-
ation for those participating, but a direct incentive
for the large number who came to view it.

A carnival day is planned in
each area, with enough variety on
the program to allow each child
to participate. The pet show is a
big attraction with the “show
ring” roped off (with string) in
the middle of the park; with the
ringmaster and his whip calling H V
for the animals; and with wild w i
and tame animals on display. A 
parade around the ring gives the v.,.«
spectators, which include a large  ‘14?
number of adults, a chance to see ;/,
the “ferocious” animals in th .ir .

e ’4'“.

.
U
‘.
../
_.
.

cages as well as the tame entries \ ,
——dogs, cats, ducks, and chickens
——on leash. The winners proudly
wear their ribbons in the park’s

MAY 1945

 

 

own colors for the rest of the day.

The “6-16” airplane model contest is one of the
outstanding events of the summer program. Open
competition to boys and girls between six and
sixteen years is offered, with top flight aerody-
namicists as judges. From the indications of the
1944 contest,* an entry list of well over a thousand
is expected this year. The city department spon-

 

* See “ReCrcatiOn Provides a Vocation.” RECREATION, December
1944.

‘g,
3;!

no
1!!

68 RELAX ON TWO GALLONS OF GAS

sors, promotes, and handles all the mechanics of
the contest and puts on a big show as a finale.
Another important event is looked forward to all
summer. The annual hay ride and watermelon
feed is given as a reward for “good citizenship” in
the parks. In these days hay rides are not so com-
mon, and when the big flat rack, covered with hay,
pulls up to the playground it receives a noisy wel—
come. The mountain park is the destination of the
ride, with a picnic at noon, special games and
hikes, and ice cold watermelon just before every-
body climbs aboard for the homeward journey.

scooters. Track and field events for the older boys
and girls follow, with games inside the buildings
for those who do not want to participate in the
more active sports. After a “nosebag” lunch each
playground takes part in the “show,” presenting
their talented members in songs, dances, and skits.
Points are awarded to the most outstanding num-
bers. The handcraft display is open to the public
all day, and the quality, variety, and quantity of
the exhibits is a constant source of amazement to
everybody.

The teen-age group has its own clubhouse,

 

Cmirtesy Department of Public Recreation, Reading, Penna.

Field day at summer's end is a big event

Playground activity for the children is all pointed
toward the culminating event of the summer, Field
Day, when all the young citizens of the city come
together for an all day celebration. At this time,
points, which have been earned throughout the sea—
son, are added up, and the park with the high
score has the honor of having its name engraved on
a small gold plate which is placed on a polished
wood plaque to signify outstanding achievement.

This great day starts with a wading pool parade
for the very little folks, all in costume, and many
riding " on gaily decorated .tricycles, wagons, or-

“Hoho House,” which is open the year round
under Parks and Recreation Department sponsor-
ship and supervision. Supplementing the “club
life” during the summer season, a series of out-
door dances on the tennis courts was inaugurated.
Friday night was chosen as the best dance time.
The dances were run on the “j itney” dance system,
not as a money-making activity, but with the idea
that the orchestra made up of high school boys
should be paid. These, too, were “family nights”
with picnic suppers preceding the dancing, and
with the children using the lighted playgrounds

RECREATION

RELAX ON TWO GALLONS 0F GAS 69

while Mother and Dad danced or participated in
the active sports offered. The “just sitters” also
came in numbers to swap stories and listen to the
music.

General Program

All of the usual playground sports, games, and
handcraft are included in the program, with many
original additions. Handcraft the past few years
has suffered from shortages of “usual” materials,
making it necessary to improvise and find the “un-
usual.” Leathercraft from scraps supplied by the
local automobile upholstery shop; salt pictures,
made of table salt colored with chalk; twisted
crepe paper instead of raffia; lapel gadgets made
from suede scraps donated by an interested hat
manufacturer, keep small fingers and minds busy
on warm days and teach the value of “making
something from nothing.”

Nature lore has been an important part of each
summer’s program, and will be given even more
attention in 1945. One of the Parks consists of
128 acres of natural mountain growth, with only
picnic areas cleared and improved. This makes a
perfect place for “field trips” and hikes, and the
supervisor here is well versed in the names of both
the trees and flowers, as well as being able to
recognize the bird life. This year an outstanding
authority on California flora and fauna will visit
the park early in the spring and give each plant
its proper botanical and common name, so that not
only the boys and girls, but the grown ups will be
able to gain a knowledge of their native plants.
The specimens collected on these trips are studied
and made up into nature craft on the playgrounds
the following week. This year’s plans call for ad—
vanced study of birds and flowers and for tracings
of the subjects which will be colored from life as
part of the nature craft activities.

One of the most successful of last year’s quiet
time activities was the “theme project” for each
park to be a part of the field day display. One
group made a replica of their grounds, complete
with barbecue pits, tables, swings, wading pool,
and game equipment, and all to scale. The over-all
size was about four feet in length. Another made
a Spanish “hacienda” with miniature dolls dressed
in authentic Spanish costumes. The dolls were
made entirely of crepe paper.

Every recreation supervisor is on the lookout
for new ideas for quiet hour projects and one that
will be stressed in Burbank this summer will be

MAY 1945

story reading as well as storytelling during the
handcraft program. Spool weaving and other such
handcraft will keep fingers busy, while minds are
occupied by the exploits of favorite characters in
fiction.

Local bus lines lend their help by sending busses
to pick up organized groups of youngsters at
stated locations in areas most distant from the
parks, making a minimum charge for the round
trip and planning the schedule to miss the peak
load of the day. Lunches are taken and one of the
supervisors accompanies each bus and helps with
the various phases of the day’s activities. I

Adult Activities

The well organized recreation groups and clubs
in the industrial plants work in close cooperation
with the Parks and Recreation Department, the
latter furnishing facilities and schedules for both
social and sports activities which are planned and
supervised by the industries themselves. This
phase of the program is coordinated with the de-
mands of the smaller but no less important COI‘l‘l-
munity groups upon a first-come-first-serve basis
with some‘ give and take on both sides to enable a
full use of all existing facilities. The formation and
operation by the city department of league play in
the sports is slowly and definitely giving way to
free for all policy, with resultant wider and less
discriminatory use of sports areas and substanti- -
ally increased attendance.

As progress is built_on change, the Parks and
Recreation Department of the city of Burbank
will continue to progress, changing each succeed-
ing summer program to meet changing conditions,
but still incorporating that which has been tried
and found good.

The Office of Defense Transportation makes the
statement that next to Christmas, the Fourth of
July and Labor Day holidays result in more pleas-
ure travel than any other holiday periods. It is
particularly important that these travel peaks be
held down this year, along with all travel during
the summer. The ODT has devised a nation-wide
\"acation-at-Home program, and urges communi-
ties to organize special city-wide activities in which
young and old can participate. For the two holi-
days, the ODT recommends special sports con-
tests and events that will make staying at home
attractive. For fact sheet and Plan Book, write
Charles V. Warren, Division of Information, ODT,
New Post Office Building, Washington 25, D. C.

‘I

 

Caurtesy Department of Park: and Pubiic Property, Camden, N. I.

Plaster Molding

HE Tth—Summer 1944
The Place — Iles Park,
Springfield, Illinois
The Activity — Plaster
Molding
The Participants—Sixty Children
Each week, during the summer of 1944, the
playground staff of Iles Park, Springfield, Illinois,
tried to initiate one new craft and to continue the
ones already initiated. One afternoon, one of the
Den Mothers of the Neighborhood Cub Pack
stopped by to get some ideas and remained to
share hers with us. She remarked that she had
found that plaster molding interested her Cub boys
and she offered to lend us her set of plaster molds.
We accepted that offer with alacrity.
we began our venture in molding with ten
pounds of plaster and seven rubber molds approxi-
mately three inches tall. It .was a success from the

70

By MARGARET LAKE
Playground and Recreation Commission

Springfield. Illinois

start—and the plaster lasted
a little more than three hours.
The next afternoon we set up
shop with twenty pounds of
plaster and an even larger audience. The news
had spread.

The demands for the little figures were many.
Dozens of children wanted one to take home, but
the strongest of voice were most apt to get the
“prize.” Furthermore, the molds could not be
replaced at the time, and they had to be handled
with great care. So we had to reorganize. Three
of the older boys took over the molding. A fourth
boy assumed command of the order department,
and we re0pened for business. Each child as he
arrived at the Park was given the chance to choose
two figures that afternoon. The “order depart-
ment” placed his name in the proper column of

’ (Continued on page 102)

RECREATION

 

(2......
.JJ

1’ HEN I GET HOME,” Joe said, “I want my
home to be just exactly as it was when I
left it. I mean the same as it was, only

better.”

“How so, Joe?” his bunkmate asked.

“Well, I’d like to see my town use some of the
ideas the Army uses, ideas on recreation for in-
stance, where you have facilities for everybody.
Our town should build a social center, something
like the Army Service Club, where people could
meet and get to know each other. This getting to
know peOple is a fine function, and the Army sure
has given me a chance to know all kinds. It has
done me a lot of good, too. I hope I don’t ever
lose the knowledge of the good in these guys we’ve
been living with.”

Sgt. Tom, Cpl. Dick, and Col. Harry are going
to have pretty definite ideas of what they want in
the way of recreation from their communities when
they return. It is doubtful that firing ranges,
obstacle courses, and drill fields will be in demand,
but bowling alleys, ball diamonds, field houses,

swimming pools, and social clubs very likely
will be.

The cowhand from Oklahoma, during his years
in the service and his duty on a coral island in the
Pacific, will have had an opportunity to learn to
swim. He’ll still be hankering to follow this new
pleasure, and the home folks had better watch out
or the first thing they know they’ll be setting up a
swimming pool or damming up a water course so
that Slim can practice his Australian crawl.

Zeke, from back Kentucky way, may have dis-

MAY 1945

Good Home, Back Home

By

Captain LORRAINE MARSHALL, WAC

Fort Douglas. Utah

What the serviceman expects from his home town
in the way of recreation when the war is over

covered while he was in the Army, that he is a
right good bowler. If he has, he’s going to want a
bowling alley in that home town of his, and so
might many of his soldier friends who have taken
to this popular sport and have been knocking down
the head pins from Camp Shelby to Fort Mason.

Some of our country’s backwoods boys, who
never knew how before, will have learned to read.
They’ll be wanting books when they return to their
hills. The excuse that their homes are too far from
town won’t go. These men were far from towns
while in the service, but they were not far from
books. If the Army was unable to provide a reg-
ular library because of the remoteness of the unit,
its bookmobile service composed of traveling boxed
libraries was sent in. Overseas the Council Book
service is available to the military in all theaters
of war. This service is a collection of small paper-
bound editions of great and popular books. These
little books have traveled the world around in the
pockets of GI’s, who read them and swap them as
they travel the roads to victory. These men, when
they return, will want their counties to provide a
similar service for themselves and their children.

Towns and cities would do well to honor their
war heroes by erecting living war memorials in the
form of community social centers in their village
squares and neighborhood parks rather than orna-
mental stacks of marble and granite, and pillars of
stone. The communities should honor the men of.
their town, instead of the war they fought in, by
using their memorial funds to build playgrounds,
sandlots and ballparks, for the sons and daughters
of their heroes, and for the heroes themselves. The

71

72 GOOD HOME, BACK HOME

heroes will have a new appreciation of their Ameri-
can privileges, and they’ll be taking advantage of
them, partly to prove their reality, and partly be-
cause our peacetime world, if it is economically
sound, will allow more leisure hours than the
average man has ever known before.

Your men of the Army are still young. They
will want to catch up on the fun of life that they
have missed, and find in their home towns the fun
of life that they knew in the service. So get ready
for their return. Build up your facilities if you
lack them. Set Up your social centers, your libra-
ries, your juke boxes, your dance floors, your
ping-pong tables, your record libraries, and your
music appreciation room. Build your volleyball
courts and your handball courts. Organize Your
town or neighborhood bowling leagues, ball teams,
and choral groups. Provide, for your artists, a
place where they may paint; for your woodcarvers
and leather workers, a place where they may pur-
sue their craft. Organize your fly-tying classes,
your language classes, and your camera clubs.

Build your memorials, yes, but build them for
their utility values. Spend dollars or millions on
living institutions which promote the great Ameri-
can principles for which our men are fighting and
dying.

Make the leisure of living a democratic thing,
available, not to a fortunate few, but to everyone
in the community. Your soldier son has been living
with and fighting beside the millionaire’s boy and
the poor man’s son. He knows them well, and he
wants things to continue so.

Have, if you wish, the confetti and streamers of
a great welcome-home celebration, but be sure that
in addition you afford your
returning soldiers, sailors,
and marines a vital life, a

 

important of all, the leisure-time problem of the
returned serviceman.

Educators are agreed that our national welfare
will depend largely on the way in which we spend
our free time. Recreation for along time must be
partly curative in character. Men physically and
mentally handicapped must be provided with
trained and sympathetic leaders, able to teach many
such passive forms of recreation as handcraft, dra-
matics, music, and games. Vaughan Hospital has
already asked the staff to help in the psychodra—
matic theater, where soldiers with nervous and
mental disorders are given parts in plays. Doctors
at the two general hospitals already equipped with
this theater, are reporting remarkable cures. Music
is also being accepted as an aid both in neurotic
cases and in many forms of heart disease.

Recreation must also meet the needs of the
Armed Forces who return home uninjured. They
will have developed many recreational interests.
They will want to know more about foreign games
and sports; will have a newly kindled enjoyment
in hiking and tours to historic points. Red Cross
recreation workers write from Europe that Ameri-
can soldiers are showing a new interest both in
their own state and in other parts of America.
They have formed “My Own State Clubs” where
they discuss their home town and, in addition,
because of meeting so many men from other
states, they have discovered a new zest for travel.
Another role that recreation must assume in the
postwar period is that of helping to give back
confidence and initiative to returned servicemen.
They may want club rooms where they can talk,
exchange experiences, meet old companions. Such
a need is indicated in a
recent request by an Oak
Park resident, a member

job to do, and a chance to
recreate in their lives the
pleasure and leisure which
is peace.

At the end of three
years of war, recreation
still is in battle dress. It
would seem that it will re-

main so for many years. ,

Indications are that the
postwar period will bring
with it greater production,
more spending, shorter
working hours and, most

In general, it is the belief ot public rec-
reation agencies that the interests of normal
returned servicemen in the field of recreation
can best be served, by encouraging them to
take part in the community recreation program
rather than by singling them out as a special
group to receive specialized recreation service.

A tewinstances of such special service have.
however. been reported. One recreation de-
partment has assumed leadership tor training
volunteers for arts and crafts in military hospi-
tals—this in cooperation with the Arts and
Skills Unit ot the Red Cross. In another city a
section of a floor has been set aside as a lounge
for the servicemen. In several communities the
recreation department helps furnish recreation
programs at veterans' hospitals.

of the Civil Air Patrol, that
the playgrounds provide a
social room for returned
aviators.

No doubt, Army and
Navy life have taught the
men a new meaning of the
word, companionship. They
may wish to explore this
term with their neighbors
when they return. Sugges-
tions in the way of new
hobbies will be necessary.
There must be rugged

(Continued on page 111)
RECREATION

The
Whole Town

By

HENRIETTA GREENBERG

Recreation Director
Tallahassee. Florida

RTS AND CRAFTS, dramatics, sports.
A music, nature, dancing—it takes all
of these to make a well-rounded rec-
reation program. These activities must be
provided for every age group regardless
of social or economic status. These were
the concepts upon which the Tallahassee
Recreation Department set to work at the begin-
ning of the summer of 1944. Have they been able
to attain their goal? Not completely, but a recre-
ation project that consisted primarily of athletic
activities has broadened into a much sounder and
more diversified program.

Activities on the parks for the young people
have consisted of sports leagues in which the chil-
dren have competed against teams representing
other city parks. Leagues have been carried on in
football, softball, and basketball. Along with the
league activities, the children have had an oppor-
tunity to learn many new playground games.
Horseshoe tournaments and track meets have
been held. A city-wide field day served to climax
the track events. .

Arts and crafts activities were conducted by a
specialist two days of each week in each of the
neighborhood parks. Public school libraries were
opened for the use of both children and adults
throughout the summer months. Since there were
no public swimming pools in Tallahassee, the pool
at Florida State College for Women was made
available at night with swimming lessons being
offered to both children and adults. Sprinklers
showered the smaller children in eight sections of
town two days every week while trips to Wakulla
Springs, twenty miles from Tallahassee, were ar-
ranged for the older children’s pleasure. Large
groups of children enjoyed park picnics and weiner
roasts, pet shows, “On—Wheel” parades, and a
climaxing carnival ivhich was planned and carried

MAY 1945

 

out by the children under the direction of the park
supervisors and the city recreation director.

The program for adults has consisted of or-
ganized lessons in tennis, golf, and swimming.
Approximately twenty teams took part in the soft-
ball leagues carried on throughout the summer.
There were eight teams in the baseball league.
Band concerts were held regularly throughout the
summer. A featured attraction of the music pro—
gram was the presentation of Benno Rabinof, an
outstanding American musician. This fall civilians
and servicemen entered enthusiastically into a has-
ketball program which has afforded great pleasure
to members of both men’s and women’s teams.

In branching out into broader fields, a Little
Theater has been established for the adults in the
community. Also, an adults’ arts and crafts pro—
gram has been arranged for those interested in
this particular activity. City-wide picnics as well
as parent’s and children’s picnics are being carried
on at regular intervals.

The Tallahassee Recreation Department func—
tions in the belief that a successful program de—
pends upon close c00peration and coordination
among all agencies. Recreation as part of the pro-
grams of church, school, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts,
Home Demonstration clubs, Y.\V.’s, etc., is im—
portant in planning a well-rounded city program.
Why shouldn’t the local recreation department be
glad to cooperate with the local technical school in
promoting a well-supervised arts and crafts pro-

(Continued on page 111)

73

Let's Have Living Memorials

EARTILY endorsing
H the suggestion of

living memorials,
the American Legion is
promoting the erection ft
of multiple—use buildings which will provide all the
accommodations of an American Legion post home
and at the same time will serve citizens as a com—
munity center.

“These centers,” states the pamphlet, Living
War Memorials, recently issued by the National
Americanism Commission, the American Legion.
Indianapolis 6, Indiana, “should provide club
rooms and meeting places. kitchens and dining
halls, game rooms, swimming pools, recreation
rooms and facilities, suitable halls for Legion post
meetings, housing facilities for visiting athletes
present for sports competition, and all other facili-
ties pertinent to the needs and deveIOpment of
community life.”

“The needs of a community,” the pamphlet con-
tinues, “should determine the form that a memorial
should take. The important thing to consider in
the establishment of a living war memorial is the
establishing of the kind of memorial which will
unite people into a strong community unit. Me-
morials have little value to a community if they
are not living memorials or if they are restricted
in use to few pe0ple, or perhaps none.”

The memorials should seek to accomplish the
following:

1. Serve the greatest possible number of people.

2. Be located to serve best all of the people in
the community.

3. Perpetuate the memory of those who gave
their lives to their country.

4. Honor those men and women who served
their country in the armed forces.

5. Have facilities which will
serve the entire commu-
nity, young and old, for
twelve months of the

6. Provide for the welfare

' of the men and women "HY
of the armed forces as
they are discharged from
service.

The pamphlet offers four

74

More and more communities are plan-
ning war memorials which will honor
the dead while serving the living

“For memorials, let us not erect Victory
arches, shafts or sculptured monuments.
Let us instead build schools, hospitals.
Year. playgrounds, recreation centers which
will serve the life of the whole commu-
Let us dedicate these memorials

to our valiant dead. But let us also
dedicate them to the living and to the
promise of the future." —— From Living

War Memorials, National American-
ism Commission of the American Legion.

suggested floor plans to
accommodate member-
ships of approximately
150, 200, 600, and
1.000. They are de-
signed to include the following facilities:

(a) A spacious assembly hall or auditorium with
stage, equipped with removable seats or chairs.
This hall should be suitable for all forms of dra-
matic productions, concerts, movies, lectures, and
other community events. It should have a separate
outside entrance, but should connect with the cen-
tral unit of the building in which there are con-
veniently located rest rooms.

(17) A gymnasium floor with seats for specta-
tors, and showers and lockers. The gymnasium
should have suitable floor space for basketball and
other floor games. It, too, should be suitable for
dances, parties, and other social activities.

(“a” and “b” may consist of a combination
gymnasium-auditorium, if desirable and funds are
not available for the construction of separate
units.)

(c) Kitchen and dining room space equipped for
preparing and serving meals and refreshments.

(d) Club and assembly rooms, office space,
storage space for equipment and supplies, game
'rooms, bowling alleys, pool and billiards room.

(6) Committee meeting rooms, and other small
rooms for table games, crafts and arts, informal
reading, and small group parties.

(f) A central lobby and/or large lounge, with
fireplace.

(9) The service rooms, heater, game rooms, and
other facilities, such as bowling alleys may be in-
cluded in the basement space.

Lately there has grown up throughout the Do-
minion of Canada a move to
make of the memorials to the
dead of this war something
not only beautiful but useful,
which will contribute to the
health and culture of the na-
tion in the future. The Gal—
lup poll reported recently that
nine out of ten Canadians
would like to see the estab-

(Continued on page 109)

RECREATION

From Each According to His Ability

O

’1 UT YOUNGSTERS to work
helping win the war ! That’s
silly. They ought to be

kept away from the knowledge

of such a terrible thing. And
besides, what can they do?” “They can do a lot,

a ‘whale’ of a lot. Witness the job that boys and

girls did on the playgrounds of Cincinnati this

summer.”

Playground leaders and volunteer parents di—
rected a full and varied program of war-centered
activities during the past year. While school was
going on the Cincinnati children were organized
for the sale of war stamps, collection of waste
paper and scrap. Junior Red Cross work. \Vhen
summer came the playgrounds encouraged the
youngsters to keep up the good work. A waste
paper drive was set in motion with prizes awarded

By CHARLOTTE BARTEL

Assistant Supervisor of Recreation
Public Recreation Commission

Cincinnati. Ohio

to the biggest collectors. This
was highly successful. But it
was only a beginning.

At the playgrounds Junior
Red Cross \Norkshops were set
up. The Junior Red Cross outlined the program
of work and purchased the materials. Parents
helped playground leaders in directing sewing.
handcraft, art, and woodwork. There was plenty
of work to be done and plenty of eager hands to
do it.

Girls and boys had their separate goals. The
younger girls stuffed toys to be sent to England
and to the children of soldiers in this country.
They made layettes for the wives of men overseas
and joke books for the men in hospitals. The
older girls put nimble fingers to work knitting bed

(Continued on page 10?)

 

Plants and Recreation

HE OPPORTUNITY to en—
T joy flowers, shrubs, and
trees acts as an antidote
for the artificiality and ten—
sion of city life, relieves the
drabness and monotony so frequently associated
with existence in a small town or in the country,
and satisfies a deep-seated desire in all of us. It
cannot be expressed in units of value, though it
has been recognized in art, poetry, architecture
and design since the beginnings of recorded his-
tory. I see it evidenced by the thousands of films
exposed by a part of the million or more people
who visit the New York Botanical Garden an-
nually; by the letters which come to my desk from
those who feel impelled to tell me the “great
pleasure it is to wander through flower gardens
and conservatories, and to spend quiet, restful,
peaceful hours in the grounds,” to quote from one
of them; by the nearly I 50,000 people who in 1938
attended the International Flower Show in the
Grand Central Palace in New York City between
Monday noon and the succeeding Saturday night
with an admission charge of $1.10; by the uni-
versal interest in gardening and the numerous or-
ganizations associated with it —-- Garden Clubs,
Rock Garden Society, Iris Society, Dahlia Society,
Herb Society, Rose Society, Begonia Society, Suc-
culent Society, and so on; by the elaborate gardens
maintained by the wealthy, and the plants raised on
window sills in country kitchen and city apartment.
Someone has said that gardening and a love of
gardens are essential components of a full, sane,
and rounded life, and traflic with the soil and the
green things that grow from it is one of the noblest
and most healthful associations man may adopt.
To own a bit of ground, dig it with a spade, plant
seeds and watch them grow is a most satisfying
thing, and fondness for such activity often comes
back to a man after he runs the round of pleasure
and business. As Henry Ward Beecher once wrote,
every book which interprets the secret lore of
fields and gardens, every essay that brings us
nearer to an understanding of trees and shrubs and
even weeds is a contribution to the wealth and
happiness of man.
A garden gives the possessor fruit, vegetables,
and flowers; it also teaches patience and philoso-
phy, pacifies and heals the body and the mind. This

76

Extracts from address given in September,
I944, at Cleveland, by William J. Robbins,

Professor of Botany. Columbia University,
and Director. New York Botanical Garden

is recognized in the employ-
ment of gardening in occu-
pational therapy by hospitals
and prisons, a practice which
has been used successfully
,__and is increasing. Oscar Wilde, writing of his own
experience in an English jail, said:

But neither milk-white rose nor rcd
May bloom in prison air
The shard, the peddle and the flint

Are what they give us there
For flowers have been known to heal
A common man's despair

At the New York Botanical Garden some years
ago we received an anonymous gift of money from
an individual who stated that it was sent because
the opportunity of enjoying the plantings in the
Garden had prevented self-destruction. If one
person was impelled to express his appreciation in
this fashion there must have been many others less
articulate or with smaller need who have felt the
influence of plants in time of stress. I believe that
in the brave postwar world many are now plan-
ning, gardening will be recognized and given an
important place because of its occupational and
spiritual values—From Science, November I7,
1944. Used by permission.

More plants are being grown in ornamental
pots in windows now than ever before. This has
brought about the propagation of a wide range of
fascinating plants for this purpose. Not only that,
but they are now easily available from green-
houses and even five-and-ten’s and chain grocery
stores. However, when buying them from places
that do not make plants their specialty, be sure
they are alive when you buy them. Many are
available for as little as ten cents.

The speed with which these plants grow depends
on the kind of plant, how good it was when you
got it, and how well or how roughly you treat it.
Little plants on a cat’s back or donkey’s pack have
but little soil and consequently will not grow as
quickly as those in normal amounts of soil.

Remember—all plants except those of certain
types, indicated later, want plenty of sunshine to
live and to grow. Even these will grow better if
given anlplesunlight.

RECREATION

Types of Plants

Succulents. So-called be-
cause of their thick, fleshy
leaves and stems, all of these
plants require plenty of sun-
light to thrive. They are well

PLANTS AND RECREATION

Don't miss the fun of raising plants inside

your home! Here are a few suggestions

which should help. They are taken from
the Farm and Home Garden Club News
Letter issued by the Cooperative
Extension Work in Agriculture and
Home Economics, Ohio State University.

77

are at least five varieties avail—
able: Coleus, baby’s tears,
Rex begonia, Chinese ever—
green, strawberry geranium
(Saxifrage) .

English ivy, devil’s ivy,

adapted to window gardening

because of their ability to withstand dry atmos—
phere. They are grown not only for blooms but
for their colorful and fascinating foliage and habits
of growth. Coming from many different countries
and continents, their habitats give us a fine les—
son in geography. Africa, India, South America,
Central America, Mexico, southwestern United
States, Canary Islands, \Vest Indies, Eur0pe,
Japan, China are all represented.

Some of the groups or genera most commonly
grown include Agave, Aloe, Crassula, Echeveria,
Euphorbia, Haworthia, Kalanchoe, Mesembryan-
themum (Fir Marigold), Rochea Sedum (stone-
crop), Sempervivum (houseleek), Stapelia (car-

rion flower). Each one of these groups contains.

many individual kinds or species.

Cactus. Although all forms of cactus do not
come from dese'rt regions, they all lend themselves
to house culture.

Flowering Plants

Although many house plants have conspicuous
flowers, but few of them are produced sufficiently,
profusely, or continuously to be grown primarily
for their blooms. The few that are satisfactory in-
clude African violet; Impatiens sultani with salmon,
pink, and dark pink flowers; flowering begonias,
such as Erfordia, luminosa, Vernon, Christmas
cheer, gracilis, and amaryllis.

Foliage Plants Other Then
Succulent and Cactus

Ferns. Holly fern; bird’s-
nest fern; dwarf Boston ferns

Vines. Grape ivy; English
ivy (there are many varie-
ties); devil’s ivy (philoden-
dron); silvery ivy-arum
(Pothos) ; wandering Jew;
Nephthytis

Peperomia; Antheri-
cum (St. Bernard lily) ;
Bowstring Hemp (San-
sevieria), incorrectly
called snake plant. There

MAY 1945

  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

grape ivy, ivy-arum, Chin-
ese evergreen, and peperomia are among the plants
that will live with little sunlight.

Care of Plants

\Vatering is the key to success or failure with
any plant. Cactus and succulents take less than
other plants. In fact, very little when not actually
putting out new leaves or blooming. On the other
Hand, Jews, begonias, and ordinary plants must
never be allowed to dry out completely. Always
keep the soil at least slightly moist, but never
muddy. This may require watering once a week,

twice a week, or even every day. You have to

keep watch to see they do not suffer. Each time
they dry out so they wilt, the microsc0pic feeding
roots are killed and new ones must be produced
before the plant can take water and nutrients from
the soil.

Soil for Window Plants. Mix the following, then
sift through %, inch screen: one part leaf mold or
peat moss and two parts garden loam. Add one
teaspoon of 4-12-4 fertilizer to each two quarts of
soil. For begonia: and ferns, add one part of sand
to the above.

Potting. Do not put in too large a pot. Pots
may be clay or glazed, with or without drainage
hole. Firm soil well so no air pockets are left in
pot. Leave % inch from top of pot empty for
watering.

Repot most plants once a
year. Early fall is a good
time for most of them; other-
wise, when they are not mak-
ing active growth.

Fertilization. Always mix
fertilizers with soil when pot-
ting. Besides this, fertilize at
least every two months, pref-
.erably every month from
March to October. Use %
teaspoon of 4-I‘é-4 to
a 4-inch pot; less for
smaller pots, more for
larger.

78 PLANTS AND RECREATION

Cactus in the Home

You will find cactus growing a fascinating hobby
with unlimited scope, for in the cactus family there
are 125 genera or groups containing a total of over
1,200 species or individual kinds. Besides this,
there are innumerable additional variations or
varieties of the 1,200 Species. Some have common
names; many do not, but each has a scientific
name which is universal the world over. Some of
you will want to know the names of the plants you
are growing, but others will be satisfied to say,
“This is a cactus.”

The cactus is entirely a native of this hemi—
sphere, with but one or two exceptions the differ—
ent forms being found according to their growth
requirements in various parts of South‘America
and North America. Cacti will vary in size from
.tiny species less than an inch high to huge tree-
like forms thirty to sixty feet high. Some grow
upright; others spread out to form mats. Some
have thorns while others do not, and some have
spines.

All cacti are sun-demanding plants so must be
grown where the sunlight is ample. Some grow in
ordinary soil with normal moisture, but many
grow best under desert conditions with rain or
water only at certain periods of the year. All cacti
bloom, but some do so much more frequently, more
profusely, and more easin under home conditions
than do others. Some are fast growing; others
grow extremely slowly.

Culture. Cacti may be grown in either clay
flower pots or in the more decorative glazed con-
tainers. Even metal containers such as tin cans
may be used. Care must be taken not to over-
water those in glazed containers, especially if there
is no drainage hole in the bottom.

Soil. The soil should be mixed to contain %
sand, % leaf mold, or peat mdss, and % soil.
Have the soil slightly moist but not wet when
potting. For the beginner, it is best not to add
fertilizer to soil, as the more succulent growth is
apt to cause trouble. ‘

Potting. The use of gravel or broken pots in the
bottom of the pot is not necessary, if watering is
done carefully. Its main value is for greenhouse
culture, where everything is .watered with a hose.
When potting, set the plants the same depth in the
soil af' which they were growing before. Deep

planting may rot the base of the plant. Always o

leave a quarter of an inch between the top of the
soil and the top of the pot for watering.

Watering. A cactus does not require as much
water as do ordinary plants with leaves. During
the late summer and early fall, water but little,
keeping the soil so it is barely moist. As a dry
cactus starts to green up and show signs of growth,
give it more water. This may be done once or
twice a week, depending on how fast the pot dries
out. During this period of growth, and through
the summer, the soil must be kept fairly moist, as
in the case of the geranium or African violet.

What Cactus to Grow. Some cacti are grown
for their interesting forms; others, for their
flowers. Grown for their ointeresting habits of
growth alone are the Old Man cactus, Organ Pipe
cactus, Rabbit’s Ear cactus, Rat-tail cactus, Fish-
hook cactus, and Golden Ball cactus. Those grown
mainly for their flowers include the Christmas or
Crab cactus, Night Blooming Cereus, and Orchid
cactus.

Where to Go for Cactus Plants. Cactus plants
collected in the desert are not nearly as satisfactory

.as those that have been grown under cultivation.

You may buy seedlings, rooted cuttings, or potted
plants from your local florist or even the ten cent
store. There are a number of firms, especially in
the southwestern part of the country, that special-
ize in cacti. Their addresses will be found in gar-
den magazines.

The Cactus and Succulent Society of America,
Box 101, Pasadena, California, has two inexpen-
sive, practical books: Cacti for the Amateur, and
Succulents for the Amateur, both by Scott Hazel-
ton.

Garden Information, a Floriculture Bulletin
issued by Ohio State University, contains much
source material of interest to indoor plant growers.
Under the classification House Plants the follow- '
ing books are suggested as helpful sources ofoin-
formation: Adventures in Dish Gardening, by
Pattern Beard; The Indoor Gardener, by Daisy
T. Abbott; Try These Indoors, by Allen Wood;
The Window Garden, by Bessie A. Buxton;
House Plants, by Marjorie Sulzer; Grow Them
Indoors, by Allen Wood; and Gardening Indoors,
by Rockwell and Grayson. A number of books on
Soilless Culture are also listed, among them The
Complete Guide to Soilless Gardening, by Wil-
liam F. Gericke; Soilless Culture Simplified, by
Alex. Laurie; Gardening W ithont Soil, by Arthur
C. Pearson; and Chemical Gardening for the Anza-

teur, by C. H. Conners and V. A. Tiedjens.

RECREATION

On to Victory

Philadelphia's Story of I944

the “new” and the “old” city. Many of them

live in apartments and duplex houses, swelter
(come June) in the humid heat that burns from
the city’s streets and buildings, escape to Fair-
mount Park in the cool of the evening. There are
many human resources in the City of Brotherly
Love, resources waiting in the war summer of
1944 to be harnessed for creative recreation.

The Bureau of Recreation set out to do that
harnessing. For the summer’s slogan they took

“On to Victory,” and they geared their play-
ground plans to that phrase. Their program was
three—faced. Its three faces were health, service,
morale. The over—all aim was to combine fun with
earnest effort during the nine weeks of playground
activities.

PHILADELPHIA’S two million people spread over

The Face of Health

The main feature of the health face was a swim—
ming campaign:
“Learn to Swim!
Help to Win!”
The Philadelphia
Daily News pub—
licized the cam-
paign. Huge pla-
cards—informa—
tional and inter-
est-provoking —
were placed con—
spicuously at the
pools. School
children were
told about the
campaign before
the schools clos—
ed, for the Board
of Education was
cooperative. A
series of graded
tests for boys,
girls, men, and
w o m e n w e r e
posted. All who
passed the tests
received achieve-

MAY 1945

ment cards. Additional cards were supplied by
the Philadelphia Association for Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation for all school boys and
girls who passed the tests. These cards were re—
turned to the respective schools and awarded at a
special assembly. A total of 6,244 boys and girls,
men and women passed the tests.

The Faces of Service and Morale

The service face and the morale face_ tended to
make a montage. Certainly they merged around
the edges, because with ser\-'ices-—-—1norale mounted
higher and higher. '

Handcraft classes, for instance, were made into
sources of supply for the armed forces and their

Stuffed animals for children of men
in the armed forces were one product

of Philadelphia's playgrounds in I944

 

Courtesy Department of Public Recreation, Reading, Pa.

79

80 ON TO VICTORY

families. Girls and boys and
women worked primarily in
the interest of wounded
veterans and the children of
wounded veterans. More
than‘ 5,000 articles were
made and presented to the
American Red Cross and
the Salvation Army. A col-
lection of lap robes, afghans,
stuffed animals, ash trays,
book marks, scrapbooks of
crossword puzzles, memo
pads, and other useful arti-
cles piled up as a result of
the summer’s work.
'Salvage groups were or-
ganized early in the summer
for the collection of waste
paper. Boys and girls -'
worked diligently and tons of paper were brought
to the centers From the centers it was taken away
by the local waste paper dealers. The money ac—
cumulated was used for various purposes. Baseball
teams equipped themselves with uniforms, parties
were held at the end of the season, a few groups
organized moonlight boat rides and picnics.

is not dangerous.

be operated on.

Many services were rendered to members of the
military forces. A group of 120 women marines
came three times a week for instruction in swim—
ming and lifesaving. They had special hours and
special instructors. During the streetcar strike
special hours were set aside for swims for the
troops. Shower facilities were placed at their dis—
posal in the recreation centers. Members of the
communities provided soap and towels for the
boys. Women of the neighborhoods planned and
cooked dinners which were served in the recrea-
tion centers to the soldiers. A feeling of warm
hospitality prevailed during the entire time that
the soldiers were on duty in the city. All branches
of the armcd‘forces used the playgrounds regu—
larly for baseball and softball games. The uni-
formed groups attracted large crowds of neigh-
borhood spectators.

Experience improved the success of the Victory
Gardens grown in 1944. Large areas were set
aside on the playgrounds and divided into plots
which were allotted to community members. Ap-
plications for gardens exceeded the number of
plots available. Plots were allotted in the order
of requests. Veteran growers helped others by
passing on their knowledge and ekperien'ce :to

SAFE PLACES TO PLAY

Playgrounds are safe to play in if you
have good leadership and apparatus which

If you don't have good leadership it is
not safe to play in because the bullies will
get in and drive the little childrenrout.

In some playgrounds they teach you how
to play and not get hurt. In playgrounds
there are no automobiles to get run over or
hurt. You have things all ready to play with.

In your own backyard it is safe if you
don't have garages where cars are likely to
hit you and have to go to the hospital and

Be on the safe side and play in safe places.

—From essay by Louis Faust, 2nd.
eleven years old. '

 

embryo farmers. Good fruit—
ful gardens and strong com-
munity spirit developed.
There’s nothing like a gar-
den to get neighbors to
know neighbors.

A “Stay-at-Home—Vaca—
tion” project was promoted
on the playgrounds in co—
operation with the Office of
Defense Transportation.
Slogan contests were held
to popularize this move-
ment and impress people
with its importance. Win—
ning slogans were placed on
bulletin boards. Interesting
programs were scheduled
on the playgrounds to pro-
vide fun for everyone in
the entire community.

To reach those who were drifting, and to help
those who were seeking a safe social anchorage, a
city-wide club system for teen-agers was planned.
The clubs were officially opened on May I, offici-
ally termed Phila-Teens. Each of the forty-five
recreation centers had a separate chapter. Regis—
tration blanks and individual membership cards
were issued for enrollment of the members. The
clubs were self—governed and self-operating as far
as possible. Recreation leaders at the centers were
always available for guidance and assistance. Over
400 clubs were in full swing ‘when the summer
closed. Their membership totalled over 6,000 boys
and girls. Clubs for dancing, just getting together,
softball, and general athletics predominated. Pic—
nics, parties, moonlight boat rides, street dancing,
swimming, outings were the order of the teen-age
day and night throughout the summer.

The following chart shows how special activities
were scheduled:

 

ACTIVITIES

July 3—INDEPENDENCE DAY CELEBRATIONS
Neighborhood parades, bands, patriotic songs, speeches,
games, contests, sports

Display of United States flag and flags of United
Nations

July lO—SAFETY WEEK AND SALVAGE WEEK

Organize safety groups and salvage groups

Conduct safety contests including slogans, rules, songs,

and posters

“How Safety Helps Win the War Effort”

Safety stories, plays, and games

Begin weekly collection of waste paper and sell to
7 dealers 7 7 ‘ (Continued on page 110)

RECREATION

“WEEK OF

 

 

 

lnvestment, $1,000:
Dividends in Citizenship, Unlimited

By ELLEN E. WOOD
Superintendent of Recreation
Danville, Virginia

funds were to be administered
through the Recreation Depart-
ment of Danville.

UNE 23, 1944. For weeks
J the old storage room in the

basement had been the scene

of furious activity. Boys and girls, The opening of the club two
appearing as early as five o’clock in the morning, months later gave thousands of Negro young peo-
had scrubbed floors and washed windows, rebuilt ple in the city the green light to develop their own
furniture and made curtains. A thousand dollars recreation activities. The club has been a model
from city funds had put in a new floor and a new of organization and management. The Recreation
ceiling, and installed rest'rooms. Local concerns Department furnishes a paid Negro leader, but the
had provided furniture, a juke box, a coke bar. club activities are the responsibility of the mem-
Two ping-pong tables furnished by the Recrea- bers. They run the coke bar, appoint their own
tion Department were in place. Everything was in clean-up squads, plan their own special programs.
shining readiness for the grand opening. Participation in the club has been high. Seventy-

The crowd gathered quickly, waited for the sig— one thousand young people came there during the
nal to begin the festivities. A high, clear soprano summer months. Their rules are strict. The club,
asked a question, “Didn’t My Lord Deliver they feel, is no place for day-time work clothes,
Daniel?” The group of young pe0ple shook their for touselled hair or dirty hands. Members must
new'clubrooms as they took up the spiritual with (Continued on page 105)
enthusiasm and a joy born of having a place of
their own.

The place? Danville, Virginia. The occasion? . o " o o . o
The Opening of a Dancmg IS one of the actIVItIes that Is always popular

when boys and girls gather at Danwlle s Swung-ln Club

teen-age club for
Negroes.

The idea of the

club had its birth
in May, I 944
when a group of
Negro boys and
girls went to the
City Council to
ask for recreation
facilities—a place
where they could
meet in comfort
and attractive-
ness and decency
in their leisure
hours. The Coun-
cil allotted from
city funds the
same amount it
had provided
earlier for a teen-
age club for white
youngsters. The

 

MAY 1945 81

What They Say About Recreation

N HOSE OF US who are jealous of our liberties
I think that in the field of recreation we should
passionately avoid regimentation.”

——-John D. Wise.

“If I had my life to live over again I would
make a rule to read some poetry and listen to some
music at least once a week. . . . The loss of these
tastes is a loss of happiness.”—Darwiu.

“It is easier to minimize than to overestimate
the significance of play in our national life. We
seem as a peeple to be moving toward a more
equitable distribution of income and leisure time.”
—R. Worth Frank in Social Progress.

“The folklore of a land constitutes the unobliter—
ated tracks of both individuals and nationalities

that have crossed and dwelt on that land.”
-—-1. Frank Dobie.

“It is good to know, as you trip through the
National Forests, that they are such a valuable
backlog for us all; to feel that you are a part

owner and are deeply interested in their protec—
tion.”-——C. A. Betts, Chevy Chase, Md.

“Recreational planning so far deve10ped to keep
workers fit for the task ahead will seem an ama-
teur effort when we face the final requirements of
victory.”--—L. B. Icely in Manufacturers’ News.

“One of the fundamental needs of children is
that they come to develop as independent person—
alities within a larger social framework.”

-—Dr. Horace G. Miller.

“Let us work to increase the number of sports

participants. Good morale will be an inevitable
outcome.”——George T. S ta§ord, Ed.D.

“Of all the stunts that men can do,
From fiying down to talking;
The exercise that beats them all,
Is just plain honest walking.”
—-—Henry Thacher.

“As someone said recently, ‘We used to walk
to reduce; now we are reduced to walking’-—and
that is a good thing.”——-Think, February 1943.

82

“Despite the importance of the seashore in the
life of the nation, less than one per cent of the
total coastline of the United States is in the public
ownership, either Federal or State."

“The essence of amateurism is this: there shall
be nothing at stake except the winning of a game
played by the established rules, played at the best
of each player’s skill and effort, played because the
contestants wish to play it.”——He_lena M. Kees.

“Milton, the blind, who looked on Paradise;
Beethoven, deaf, who heard vast harmonies;
Byron, the lame, who climbed toward Alpine

skies;
Who pleads a handicap, remembering these ?”
—Violet Alleyu Storey.

“Books worth reading once are worth reading
twice; and what is most important of all, the mas-
terpieces of literature are worth reading a thou-
sand times.”—John Morley.

“Music is essentially a social art which can be
utilized effectively for the promotion of friendly
feeling and the satisfying of the social hunger in
all human beings.”-—Mrs. I. W. H eylman in B ul—
letin of Illinois Congress of Parents and Teachers.

“Due to the complexities of our present—day
civilization and the strain under which we now
live and work, relaxation is just as much a neces-
sity as food and drink.”-——Johu W. Eggleston,
Justice of the Virginia Supreme Court.

“What lovelier or more effective recreation is
possible than the beautiful and essential rebuilding

of our spiritual power ?”——Daniel J. Lord, S.J., in
Hours 05.

“The nation that can sing and make a joyful
noise before the Lord has the spirit of victory in
its heart.”-—W_iltiam Allen White in The Etude
Music Magazine.

“The neighborhood is the most promising unit
in which to deve10p suitable recreational resources
because a greater feeling of stability and belonging
can be developed on this basis than in a wider or-

ganizational unit.”—-Peter Bios in S ociat Action.

RECREATION

A Day in Pinneys Woods

ELEBRATE with a
( : “this-is-the-

army” theme for
your next party or rec-
reation group. Indoors
or outdoors——for large or small groups, children or
adults—this can be fun. Use your ingenuity in
planning this party.

Parties built around military themes were high-
lights at Bradford Playground in Upper Mont-
clair, New Jersey. This outline of Bradford ac—
tivities on one day will shOw you how it was done:

Army Order of the Day Navy Order of the Day

1. Flag raising 1. Flag raising

2. Recruiting for: 2. Enlistments for:

a. Air corps 3.. Coast guard

b. Infantry ~b. Air corps

c. Cavalry c. Seabees

d. Commandos (1. Navy intelligence
3. Induction 3. Induction '

3. Intelligence test a. Intelligence test

1). Oath b. Oath
4. Basic Training 4. Boot Camp

a. Being Sea-soned
ib. Rope climbing
c. Target practice

a. “Off to camp”
b. Calisthenics

c. Obstacle course
d. Target practice

. Reconnaissance duty 5. Out to sea
. Mess 6. Chow
. Lowering of flag 7. Lowering of flag

Tell your fun seekers that they are in the army
now and it’s the G.I. way of doing things!

First on the list should be flag raising. Then
start to recruit. Have an enlistment center. A
table or a desk will do. Have each candidate sign
up for service and to make it more realistic make
your own funny intelligence test.

“at”

Sample IQ. test question:
Q. Do you always put the right shoe on?
A. Of course. You don’t put the wrong one on!

Have each write his own oath of allegiance.
Be sure you have enough pencils for the test. Col-
lect tests after they have been completed and
answer the questions. Now that all of your can-
didates have- passed the msts with only the highest
marks, assign them to the various branches of the
army such as the air corps, infantry, cavalry, and

commandos. Give each group a different insignia
to wear.

MAY 1945

By PETRONELLA R. TACIONIS

An Outdoor Party in Tune with the Times

Your units organ-
izcd, select a shy per—
son for the good old
bossy sergeant.Tell him
to get his men in order
and march them to a designated spot, having each
group side by side.

Now you are all set for basic training, which
may include various activities, depending on the
type of group you have and whether you are hav—
ing indoor or outdoor activities. For instance, “off
to camp” means a nice hike through the woods or
what-have-you.

In any group there are always a few pe0ple who
think they know their exercises, and of course
they will be your leaders! For more fun, if you
are not aiming your program toward body build—
ing, get your leaders to give a pep talk on why
calisthenics are necessary to health and good ap-
pearance. Then have them do finger or toe exer-
cises for the group to follow!

At. Pinneys, the obstacle course consisted of
ladder climbing, crawling in and out of the “dog
house,” running through paths and rope swinging.

Target practice on army day meant throwing
bean bags into a basket from varying distances,
each distance having point value with a possible
score of a perfect 100. On our navy day a big
gray-colored barrage balloon, constructed from
wire and heavy paper, was suspended on a clothes—
line between the barn and a tree. The balloon
could thus be moved back and forth, and this really
lent excitement to the day! Each player was sup-
plied with a bean bag which he aimed at the target.
The object, of course, was to demolish the balloon
to paper bits.

Reconnaissance duty can always be fun—espe-
cially when there is a big surprise awaiting the
lucky finders. At Pinneys, reconnaissance duty
meant searching for a treasure, not an enemy.
Watermelons were hiding in the woods! Each
sergeant had to organize his men and advance with
the group in the most secret fashion. As soon as a
group found the treasure, the sergeant reported
the find to headquarters and his men retired. Of
course they kept the whereabouts of the treasure
a secret while other contingents were still on duty.

(Continued on page 110)

83

Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Messages
to the

National Recreation Congresses

RANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT believed heartin in
i the National Recreation Congress, and through-
out his period in the presidency gave his sup-
port to it and gladly put the weight of his office

behind it.

In 1934 the Congress was held in Washington.
Those were the dark days of the depression. Mrs.
Roosevelt addressed the Recreation Congress and
the President received at the White House a com—
mittee of the Board. At that meeting in the Presi-
dent’s Ofiice, Mr. Roosevelt
spoke of his belief in recrea-
tion and told of a program
he knew about personally in
a Georgia community. At the
close, when William Butter-
worth, at that time President
of- the United States Cham—
ber of Commerce, asked him
for any final word for the
Recreation Congress, the
President said, “You are doing a bully fine job.”

IN 1935, just a few days before the Recreation
Congress opened in Chicago, Dr. John H. Fin-
ley received a letter from the President which con—
tained these two paragraphs:

“You know how heartily I believe in the ade-
quate provision of opportunities for recreation, and
how through the years I have cared for the work
of the National Recreation Association. I‘rejoice
in the growing public interest in this subject as
evidenced by the fine facilities now being provided
by the government—federal, state, and local—for
the enjoyment of the people.

“Of even greater importance, in my opinion, is
the definite recognition that the field of recreation
is a fruitful one for those desiring to render nota-
ble public service. I earnestly hope that in each of
our local communities men and women interested
in the public welfare will give increasing thought
and time to this great cooperative, democratic
method of providing recreation for all the people

84

"We in the United States are amazingly
rich in the elements from which to weave
a culture. We have the best of man's
past on which to draw. brought to us by
our native folk and by folk from all parts
of the world. In binding all these ele-
ments into a national fabric of beauty
and strength. let us keep the original
fibers so intact that the fineness of each
will show in the complete handiwork."

untrammeled by any motive except that of living
fully and richly.”

IN 1939 the President’s message was touched by
the shadow of war looming over the world:

“The Twenty-fourth National Recreation Con-
gress will meet this year under unusual conditions
of strain throughout the world. While little chil-
dren in some countries are carrying gas masks and
living in hourly fear of bomb raids, American chil-
dren are still free to play, to
sing, to dance, and to grow
as normal, happy children
should grow. Your great Rec-
reation Congress may well
pause and give thanks for
such God-given blessings.

“To the National Recrea-
tion Association in whose
work I have been interested
for so many years must go
credit for constructive achievements. Whatever the
time and whatever the task, the full power of the
National Recreation Association has been put be-
hind those aspects of American life which bring
the most genuine human satisfaction.”

N READING the President’s message as a whole,
one is struck by his emphasis on the value of rec-
reation to all human beings—children and adults—
by his words of praise and encouragement for
what was being done. and his suggestions for new
ways to carry forward his ideas on recreation. Over
and over he rejoiced in the existence of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, and gave unstinted
commendation to its purpose and spirit. The 1940

letter is an example:
“The recreation movement in America is one of

our richest resources. It —is not only a manifesta-
tion of our capacity for finding life in the face of
pressing problems, but is an example of how our
normal social forces may be used in times of

emergency.

RECREATION

FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT’S MESSAGES 85

“For many years, I have followed the work of
the National Recreation Association. I know what
it has done to keep life and laughter in the hearts
of childhood; what it did to provide wholesome
recreation programs for the unemployed during the
depression; its present readiness to serve by put-
ting its full power behind those aspects of Ameri-
can life which eternally bring the deepest human
satisfactions.” -

THREE MONTHS before Pearl Harbor, as the Rec-
reation Congress gathered in Baltimore at its
first Defense Recreation Congress, the President’s
message to Robert Garrett, Chairman of the Board,
was as follows:

“The delegates to the Twenty-sixth National
Recreation Congress, to whom I send hearty greet—
ings, will be challenged on the very threshold of
their thinking by the fact that all they hold dear in
life, and the ideals and principles they cherish in
their work, are threatened by a great anti-social
power. Nevertheless, the work of the Association
and all of those agencies working with it in this
Congress is a great asset in these critical times.
The strains of life deepen—*there is much to crush
out its joy. But as a people we must strive to be
happy while at the same time we train for defense
or bear the restrictions of priorities.

“In addition to your regular recreation service
to boys and girls so essential to their normal de-
velopment, I call upon you and all recreation
workers and agencies to strengthen your service
in behalf of the young men in the armed forces of
the nation, in behalf of defense industry workers,
and in behalf of the civilian population. We are
only as strong as our morale. Your great task is
to help build the morale of the American people,
now called upon to perform an historic role.”

HE LAST Recreation Congress message to come

from President Roosevelt was to Howard
Braucher in July 1942. As usual, he thought of
the recreation movement in large terms and of its
leaders as doing a significant
job, and his mind was always
on the roots of the movement
——the local community.

“The inventive genius and
organizing power of our peo-
ple gave us the economic free—
dom that made possible the

"The recreation movement in America
is one of our richest resources. It is
not only a manifestation of our ca-
pacity for finding life in the face of
pressing problems, but it is an ex-
ample of how our normal forces ma

be used in times of emergency.'

widespread development of recreation for all the
people. Now that we are at war we are fortunate
in having this rich resource of recreation to give
us physical, mental, and spiritual power for the
titanic task at hand. You who have devoted your
lives to this movement well know that unless its
full resources are geared to the war effort till
victory comes, all that you hold dear may be lost
for generations.

“I rejoice in the fact that the strength of the rec-
reation movement in America stems from a deep
feeling of community responsibility, and I am
greatly encouraged by the reports received of what
communities are doing through their local govern-
ments and voluntary community committees.”

ERHAPS NO ONE MESSAGE better illustrates what

President Roosevelt believed about recreation
than the one sent in 1938—not to the Recreation
Congress, but on the occasion of the founding of
Joseph Lee Day. Here is his philosophy of recre-
ation; here is commendation for a gallant leader;
here is his appeal to us all to continue to serve the
recreation movement. '

The full letter written to John H. Finley in May
1938 follows:

“I am heartily in accord with the idea of setting
aside a special time to pay tribute to the life and
work of Joseph Lee. His simplicity, his humor, his
philosophy, his integrity, his courage endeared him
to all who came to know him and work with him——
and these were legion.

“He saw that for children play was the serious
business of life; that for youth recreation was an

' important school for citizenship; and that for adults

leisure rightly used meant the difference between
mere existence and fruitful living. The genius of
Joseph Lee lay not alone in seeing these things.
He used what he was and what he had to forge the
machinery necessary to make them real in Ameri-
can life.

“Today, in the far-flung communities of a great
nation, children are happier, youth is better served,
and men and women have a chance to live more
richly because of the life
and work of Joseph Lee. No
greater tribute could be paid to
him than to have a share in
helping to strengthen and build
further this vital part of our
community and of our na-
tional life."

 

MAY 1945

A Realistic Postwar Plan

OR THE PAST YEAR Yonkers,

New York, a city with a
~— population of 143,000, has
been acquiring about twenty park and playground
areas in different sections of the city serving prac-
tically every neighborhood. The City Council by
law has designated most of these areas as parks
and playgrounds, and favorable action on the
others is assured.

Some of the sites are a good size, being 10, 15,
or 20 acres in extent. A large river—front park is
planned which will extend about a mile and a half
along the Hudson River and will contain approxi-
niately 2,800 acres. This has already been started
by the acceptance of a 400-foot water-front area.
Most of the sites will serve different purposes as
playfields, playgrounds, and park recreation cen-
ters. Several will be used as scenic spots, with
excellent panoramic views 0f the river and the
surrounding country.

In acquiring its new areas the city is planning
not for the next nve years but for fifty. The splen-
did accomplishment of getting title to these areas
and of having them legally designated unanimously
as parks and playgrounds has come about as the
result of a number of factors.

Recreation is not new to Yonkers. For many
years the city has had a Recreation Commission
and a city-wide recreation program with a Super-
intendent of Recreation, James McCrudden, who
has occupied this position for more than twenty-
five years. Yonkers has not only park and recrea-
tion centers but two swimming pools. The Recre-
ation Commission cooperates with the schools,
using some twenty of them as indoor recreation
centers. Yonkers knows recreation and wants
more of it!

Over a year ago the City Council appointed a
Committee on Regional Parks and Playgrounds.
The chairman of that committee is former Mayor
William J. VVallin, prominent lawyer and citizen,
now vice—chancellor of the University of the State
of New York, member of the Board of Regents,
former member and president
of the Westchester County
Park Commission. Mr. Wal-
lin has given a great deal of
time personally to the plan—

86

By JAMES E. ROGERS
National Recreation . Association

Yonkers, New York. is not just talking
about acquiring parks and playgrounds
in the future. The city has gone into
action and, is gettingthese areas now!

ning project, and he has work-
ing with him a volunteer com-
mittee of key citizens, men and
women—a banker, a corporation executive, a well-
known real estate dealer, a city judge, and other
outstanding citizens. The president of the Recrea-
tion Commission is a member of the committee,
and there has been a close tie-in with the city gov-
ernment and the Recreation Commission. All of
the committee members pay their own expenses,
and the entire project has been one of public
service without cost to the city.

One reason for the outstanding success of the
project has been the Splendid interest of the entire
community. The newspapers have given strong
backing. Many community and neighborhood
meetings have been held, and there has been an
excellent educational campaign. Citizens have been
interested in securing a park or playground for
their neighborhood, and it has been this local all-
out community effort which has helped bring about
the Council’s decision designating twenty areas for
recreational uses.

Most of the areas acquired were city—owned, and
some ofathem were tax—delinquent properties. How-
ever, the task of getting the City Council to desig-
nate the areas as recreation centers was not easy
because many of them were valuable, and there
were offers by private individuals to purchase them
at prices difficult for the city fathers to refuse,
since the transaction would mean considerable
financial gain to the city. In one neighborhood, for
instance, there was a large site admirable for rec-
reational use as a unit. An individual wanted to
purchase part of this valuable pr0perty, and the
temptation to the city to sell it was strong, but the
neighborhood people met and petitioned the City
Council to acquire the entire area for recreational
purposes. It is significant that neighborhood
groups asking for prOperties have insisted on large
areas which would insure play space of ample size.

The committee did not start with an over-all
plan. This was wise strategy, for starting with a
large, ambitious plan would
have frightened everyone con-
cerned. Instead, the committee
began in the neighborhood

( Continued on page 110)

RECREATION

A Miniature Orchestra

By HELEN BARNHART and MARGARET ROWE

HIS IS THE STORY of a
project created by grade
school youngsters in their
club—as they themselves have

out of a discussion of the
question, “How can we im-
prove our club programs?”

An Idea Evolves

The discussion went like this:

We ought to have more music.

Instrumental music would be better.

Who can play?

My mother says she’ll get me an instrument when
I pick out the kind I want, but I’m not sure
what I’d like yet.

Let’s make up a program about musical instru-
ments.

\Vc’d have to see them.

We could go down to the music store and look at
them.

We could look at pictures.

We could watch them in the movies.

We could listen to records.

We could make the instruments.

Yes, let’s make them!

We could make them out of cardboard and pretend
to play them. -

Let’s make an orchestra!

It would be too big. We haven’t room for it. Some
instruments are bigger than pe0ple. I saw one
in a movie just the other day.

Let’s make them small and make people to play
them.

Let’s make a little orchestra on the table in the
shop!

We could hide a victrola and let it play records.
It would look as if our little people were playing!

We could have a program and invite our parents.

That would make a grand club program!

The Idea Takes Shape and Grows

Once the idea was evolved all kinds of questions
arose and were discussed back and forth while the
plans for the program grew.

MAY 1945

This material represents extracts from
an article published in Creative Schools,
the twenty-third Yearbook of the Depart-
ment of Elementary School Principals of
told it. The program came the National Education Association.
Washington, D. C. Used by permission.

How big shall we make the
people?
We want the whole orches-
tra to fit on our table (6
feet by 8 feet.)
It would depend on how

many people there are in
an orchestra.

Women should be shorter than men.
\Vhat shall we make the people out of?

They’ll have to be able to sit down and hold
instruments.

Wire would be best. We could make little chairs
of wire, too.
How shall we dress them?
Evening clothes, of course. That’s what they
always wear.
I can bring a picture of a man’s dress suit.
How big shall we make the instruments?
That’ll depend upon the size of our people.
They’ll have to be in proportion.
\Vhat shall we make the instruments out of?
We could make them of wood.
That would be too hard. Some of the instru-
ments would be too small.
We could cut them out of tagboard and stick
them together with gummed paper, then paint

them.
What records shall we play when we give our
program?
We could try a lot of records and pick out the
best.

We could play solo pieces by different instru-
ments and have someone name the instru-
ments and describe them.

We could find out about great composers and
play pieces written by them.

What else could we do when we have our program?

We could sing. We could put on a play. We
could have a radio program. We could make
favors. We could serve refreshments.

Details Are Worked Out

Deciding on sizes was really quite a problem.
It involved the use of ratio and proportion. We
didn’t think we’d fever really use them! We

87

88 A MINIATURE ORCHESTRA

couldn’t make our people too small because then
some of our instruments would be almost too small
to make. We decided, after much discussion, to
make our people nine and ten inches tall. If our
people were to be one-seventh as large as real
people, our instruments, of course, would need to
be only one-seventh as large as real instruments.
We took the actual height of each instrument and
divided by seven. It worked!

.A set of pictures of musical instruments which
we got from the music store certainly came in
handy. So did the set of records called “Instru-
ments of the Orchestra.”
\Ve had a lot of fun
finding the right picture
and holding it up when
the different instru-
ments were played. Once
we had a spell down.-
we listened to the music,
then had to name the
instrument and spell it.
Sometimes we listened
to see what instrument

was being played on the
victrola and then pre-
tended we were holding
and playing it. When
the record was changed
and a different one
played, we had to change
with it. we liked the
movies rented from the
state university. It was
easy to see from them
how the different sec-
tions, or choirs, in an
orchestra work together. '

We didn’t know how to go
about making people out of
wire so the teacher said she
would show us how they did it once in an art class
she took. we had fun guessing what her next
direction would be. After we got the idea, we
guessed right nearly every time. Here are the
directions:

1. Bend some wire making one arm, one leg, and a
head. (If your figure is to be ten inches tall, it
should measure eleven inches from the tOp of the
head to the end of the leg because an inch will have
to 'be turned up for feet. Don’t cut the wire—use
one long piece.)

2. Bend up for foot, reinforce body, and make other
arm.

 

Caurtesy Department of Public Recreation, Reading, Penna.

No horns like this for the miniature
orchestra! Theirs were composed of
wire and adhesive tape and ingenuity.

3. Reinforce second arm and body and make other leg.
(In reinforcing. don’t wind tightly—let the wire
“Bow” along.)

:‘3

Reinforce second leg and first arm, both directions.

5. Reinforce second arm, body, first leg, body, first
arm, body, second leg, body, and second arm. End
with the “hand” of the second arm. Cut the wires
at the ends of the arm and, if you have done it
correctly, you will have five fingers on each hand.

6. Turn up feet. Make cardboard soles for feet. Tie
the soles on.

7. Wind strips of paper around the entire figure tying
them on with string. Model a head over the wire
head out of papier-maehé.

8. Bring pieces of old
stockings or socks.
Sew them on the legs.
Model shoes of papier-
maché on top of the
cardboard soles.

9. Wind wire fingers
with adhesive tape.

10. \Vhen the papier-
maehé dries, paint
head, neck, hands,

wrists, and shoes with
show card color.

From this point on
we used our own ideas
almost entirely. All of
the girls had ideas about
evening gowns and some
of the boys knew a great
deal about dress suits.
We drew pictures of
evening clothes, then cut
patterns out of paper.
Finally we cut into our
material. “’e used black
sateen for the dress
suits and curtain ma-
terials of all kinds for evening
gowns. Some of the boys were
clumsy about sewing, so the
girls helped them out. In turn,
the boys helped the girls with their instruments.

Since we wanted the chairs to be more or less
alike and to fit our people, a few of us took wire
home and practiced. It was easy to make chairs,
since we already had learned about reinforcing and
about letting the wire “flow.” We brought back
some rather good-looking chairs from which we
chose the best one. Then we tried to make our
chairs look like it.

It was fun making the instruments because we
worked in committees. The committee on stringed

“ (Continued on page 106)
RECREATION

Playground to City via College

LASSES in home econom—
C ics, sociology, physical

education, radio, litera-
ture, and education at Kent
State University, Kent, Ohio,
use the community recreation“
program for training school
experience and survey work. During the summer
session of 1943, several interesting projects in
community improvement were carried out under
the direction of Dr. Marion Van Campen in con—
nection with her class at Kent State in “Commu-
nity Participation.” Accounts of some of these
projects follow:

Playground Activities. At the beginning of the
playground program, children studied ways in
which they could be of service to their community
during the summer months. Committees were
formed to carry out the activities, and children
were permitted to select the group with which they
wished to work. Each committee was supervised
by a student from the Community Participation
course.

One group of children did a splendid job of
painting and decorating the playground equipment
at Kent’s three elementary schools. They chose a
chairman for their group and made plans for car-
rying out the project. Some of the activities in
which these children engaged were: sanding the
swings, slides, and teeters; mixing the paint for
use: soaking the brushes to keep them in good
condition; making “wet paint” signs; planning the
way to decorate the equipment; and cleaning up
and putting away tools after the work was com-
pleted. .

At the beginning of the project, children had
difficulty in living together, and many group prob-
lems had to be solved. They had little regard for
the rights of others, and they often spoke very
harshly to one another. As the work progressed,
however, this attitude changed. They learned to
live together in a cooperative way, and they de-
veloped a concern for the common welfare through
the sharing of common interests and experiences.
Through working together on group tasks which
are real and meaningful to them, they have come
to feel that they belong to the community and have
a part in it.

Weeding University Campus. A group of- chil-

MAY 1945

The "author" of this article is not one
but many. It was prepared from reports
by members of a class in Community
Participation at an Ohio University. It
mayI perhapsl suggest new ways of using
volunteers in the playground program.

dren planned, as one of their
community activities, to weed
the University campus. They
came to the grounds every
Friday from I :00 to 2:00
P. M., where under the lead—
ership of group captains, they
worked in different sections of the campus. Some
weeded flower beds, and others weeded around the
shrubbery. Large baskets were filled with the un-
desirable plants which the children proudly took to
the garden for disposal. This project provided an
opportunity for the children to share in community
responsibilities. As a gratifying outgrowth of this
weeding on the University grounds, the children
show more interest in their own gardens at home
and manifest a functional c00perative enthusiasm
toward other community projects.

Control of Soil Erosion and Destruction of Pests.
The belief that children owe something to the com-
munity of which they are a part, that they should
participate in wholesome activities that will develop
responsible citizens, and that they should develop
community spirit and understanding, were some
of the objectives of the program of activities on the
Kent school playgrounds.

One activity included the destruction of the
harmful tent caterpillar. The children examined
the nests and learned of the life history of the pests.
They studied the great harm caterpillars can do
and saw some of the destruction they had caused.
They then learned the best methods of destroying
them, and as small groups, located and destroyed
many pests. As individuals, the children later went
around their own sections of the town, linding the
tents in trees, and oftering to destroy the nests if
the home owners wished them destroyed. Dozens
of nests were destroyed, and children told of hav-
ing their fathers stop on highways while driving
around the countryside so that they could destroy
nests which had been spotted.

Another activity which the children enjoyed was
their work in helping to control soil erosion. They
discussed the continuous harm done by erosion and
examined the damage done to various fields and
gardens. Methods of controlling erosion were ex-
plained, and the children actually had the experi-

(Continued on page 103)

89

Right in Their Own Backyards—and Ours!

success —— double-

feature variety—to
Louisville’s recreation
program this summer.
Feature one was by
radio; feature two by
newspaper. Both took
recreation straight to
Louisville boys and girls
in their own backyards and their own living rooms.

We are pleased about the whole thing and tell
the story because you, too, may find by a little
examination that you have more talent than you
think—right in your own backyard, meaning right
on your own recreation staff—even right in your
own recreation files!

Our bad luck was a very serious polio epidemic
which closed Louisville’s playgrounds to all chil-
dren under sixteen years of age early in July—a
July marked by particularly sizzling heat. Since
there are no fewer than 61,000 boys and girls of
school age in our city, and because many of their
parents are in war work, the closing of the play-
grounds was a matter of real concern to the Rec-
reation Division.

The polio problem brought us an answer to the
question, “What can recreation offer over the radio ?”
Our radio stations had cooperated well with the
Recreation Division, so when
we began to think of the
needs of the children who

BAD LUCK brought

By KIRBY STOLL

Superintendent of Recreation
Division of Recreation. Department of Public Parks
LouisvilleI Kentucky

They found it wasn't necessary to go
outside their own Recreation Depart-
ment for all the talent they needed!

 

9 :45 would be available.
Audition time for the
four storytelling leaders
on our staff was sched-
uled for two days later.

It meant quick work,
but our four leaders got
together, worked up a
presentation including
the idea of using the
score of “Peter and the Wolf” as the theme song,
a full list of stories, and an introductory script.

In writing this script we thought of a follow—up
continuity idea which would carry the radio story-
telling interest back to the playground. The script
suggested that each child after listening to the
Storytelling Lady see how well he or she could
tell the story, practicing it by telling it to the little
boy or girl next door. “Then when the playgrounds
are reopened,” the script suggested, “why not enter
the storytelling contest? Perhaps you’ll be chosen
to tell your story over the air just like the Story—
telling Lady .”

The audition of the four recreation leaders
proved great fun and was warmly contested. The
program director had a difhcult time before he
finally selected College Junior Nancy Owen as
the “Storytelling Lady” of Radio Station WAVE’s
Magic Carpet Hour.

“Well begun is half done.”
The Magic Carpet Hour got
off to an excellent start when

couldn’t come to the play-
grounds to hear storytelling
we asked ourselves the ques-
tion, “Why not bring them
stories over the radio?”
We turned to the pro-
gram director of one of the
network stations and asked
him if he thought that the
station would want to un-
dertake this for all the chil-
dren of Louisville. He was
interested but could think
of no open time. Finally, as
we discussed the idea
further, he decided that the
morning period of 9:30 to

90

In many localities. last summer, the inge-
nuity and patience of parents were put to
a severe test when playgrounds and swim-
ming pools were closed because of polio
epidemics. In North Carolina. state-wide
action was taken to meet the situation when
the State Recreation Committee, Harold
D. Meyer, Chairman, issued a series of bul—
letins containing suggestions for home play.
and sent out a number of radio spots on
tamin recreation to all radio stations in

the state.

The bulletins covered game rulesI ideas
for family picnics in the backyard. and lists
of books children would enioy reading or
having read to them. The radio spots.
which were short, had many suggestions to
offer for happy stay-at-home hours. As a
result, man parents wrote to the Com-
mittee for help.

 

on the morning the Story-
telling Lady . was to make
her bow the C o urier Journal
ran a picture of her with an
interesting feature story tell-
ing “how Radio Station
WAVE, in cooperation with
the Division of Recreation,
Department of Public Parks,
is initiating a program
called the Magic Carpet,

and out of all the city’s rec- .

reation leaders Nancy Owen
has been selected as the
Storytelling Lady whose
pleasant voice will bring

(Continued on page 104)

RECREATION

l
l

Mother Goose Knows Best

HE SCENE is a bus wait-
Ting room. Door at the

rear marked TO BUSES.
Another door, at right, un—
marked. Two benches face
each other in the middle of
the room, others line each
side wall. Time table, Red
Cross poster, and War Bond
poster are tacked on walls,
together with a large OWI
poster illustrating the seven
points (this should be in a
conspicuous position). Any
other signs or notices may appear on walls,"ac-
cording to the judgment of the director.

If no scenery or preps are available, the playlet
may be performed in any room. Instead of benches,
chairs may be used. Sound effect of bus leaving
may be eliminated. If no auto horn can be secured,
voice of driver, male or female, may call “all
aboard.” Any large poster showing a soldier or
soldiers will do for WAC to point out. OWI post-
ers on seven points may be obtained from local
OPA office, or by writing thce of War Informa-
tion in Washington. If there are no “supers” to
go through door ahead of cast of characters, they
too, can be eliminated. It will require very little
ingenuity, however, to make the room look like a
waiting room.

throug

them present it.

As scene Opens, bus horn sounds and several
people are seen vanishing—in a rush—through
rear door. After door closes there is a pause of
perhaps ten seconds, then sound of bus starting.

As bus is heard departing, four women rush in
through door, right. They are: Housewife, carry-
ing a shopping bag; Teacher, with a sheaf of
papers and a small book ; War Worker, in slacks

and a new fur coat, and with a photographic badge,
and a WAC.

They hurry to back door, War Worker leading.
She swings door open. Looks out. Speaks, wav-
ing others back.

WAR WORKER: N o dice, it’s gone. Fifteen min-
utes till the next bus—that costs me a buck.

WAC: And me a bawl out by the sergeant. (Turns
to War Worker.) Say, do you mean you get a

MAY 1945

Children and young people on the sum-
mer playgrounds have made a real contri-
bution during the war years through the
sale and purchase of war stamps. through
partici ation in salvage campaigns, and

E numerous other channels.

This little play offers four girls the oppor-
tunity to present dramatically some of the
dangers of inflation. In addition to the
satisfaction of publicizing some important
facts, they will have great fun giving the
play, and their friends will enjoy seeing

 

dollar for fifteen minutes?

. Four dollars an hour,
when I’m getting fifty a
month!

WAR WORKER: Cool down,
soldier. My scale is a dol—
lar an hour—but I lose
the whole hour if I’m lif—
teen minutes late. And,
look! Your fifty a month
is clear. Me, I have to pay
my board, clothes—every- -
thing. o

TEACHER: Dollar an hour——

and dollar and a half for overtime, I suppose?

WAR WORKER: Right. Fifty-two a week, but you
earn it. And you don’t get it unless you put in
your full forty-eight hours.

TEACHER: Still, it’s twice what I get for teaching
school.

WAR WORKER: So what? So you don’t get docked
if you’re sick, you lay off three months a year,
you don’t work Saturdays. You keep that school-
teacher complexion, and you don’t get riveters’

' hands. (She shows hers.) Pretty soft, I calls it.

During this conversation the WAC, the
Teacher, and the Housewife have seated them—
selves on the facing benches. The War Worker
strolls toward the OWI poster and surveys it
casually. She turns away, saying:

WAR WORKER: Seven Points Against Inflation.
What’s this Inflation stuff all about, anyway?

HOUSEWIFE: About you—and me—and them (she

gestures at the WAC and Teacher)—and—and
everybody else. . . .

WAR WORKER: Inflation. Maybe that would make
more sense to me if you told me what it means.

TEACHER: In two words, swollen prices.

WAR WORKER: Well, what can I do about them?

What can anybody do about them except pay
’em?

WAC: Don’t swell ’em.

WAR WORKER: Whaddayuh mean, don’t swell
’em?

TEACHER: Seems to me there’s an answer to that
in this Mother Goose book. Remember Mother

91

92 MOTHER GOOSE KNOWS BEST

Goose? (She turns
the pages.) Yes,
here it is—

Oh workman or scholar

Hang on to your dollar
_ And do not spend it soon,

For every cent
Unwisely spent
Intiates the price balloon.

WAR WORKER: That’s
not the way I learn-
ed Mother Goose.

TEACHER: Well,
Mother Goose has
been studying eco-

nomics. This is Mother Goose on inflation—I
don’t know who wrote it, but I guess the OPA
inspired it, because there’s a lot about not doing

foolish spending in it.

WAR WORKER: \Vhat makes you think I spend
my money foolishly?

HOUSEWIFE (to the teacher) : Yes, aren’t you sort
of judging in advance?

VVAC: Maybe it’s because we think she’s the only
one of us who has enough to spend foolishly.
Of course you may have. . . .

HOUSEWIFE: I feed and clothe live on my hus-
band’s salary—and it hasn’t been raised—of

 

$40 a week. -

WAR WORKER: All right, I’m a plutocrat. Out of
$52 a week, when I get it, comes five bucks for
war bonds, and nine for taxes—and a couple of
dollars for hospitalization, group life insurance,
and security. Twenty dollars for board and
room. So I have sixteen left. Laundry and
other stuff takes five more. So if I spend the
other thirteen I suppose I send the price of
mink coats way out of sight.

TEACHER: Mink doesn’t matter—except to the
very rich, and they have only about one per cent
of the country’s income to spend. But you could
send the price of coats like mine—or that new

one of yours—out of sight.

WAR WORKER: Who, me? Just with my measly
thirteen bucks of loose change!

TEACHER: You and 15,000,000 other women in
industry. If they all rushed out to spend that
extra thirteen a week it would throw ten billion
dollars a year into the market for goods and
blow prices through the ceiling. And then you
and the other 15,000,000 would be wailing,
“Who did this to me ?” ,MotherrGoose has

something to say on
that, too. (Reads):

There was a little dOpe

with a fat pay envelope

And she spent every cent
that was in it.

And she wondered, 'bye and
he why the prices
rose so high

But she never blamed her-
self for a minute.

WAR WORKER: Who
you calling a little
dope?

W’AC: I don’t think she
meant it personally.
It’s something we can
all learn from. I know ' 1
\VACS who spend every cent of their pay that
the Army doesn’t tie down. We’d all be dopes
if we didn’t realize that that kind of personal

Spending could add up to billions.

 

HOUSEWIFE: And I know housewives who are
dopes enough to spend like mad just because
they’ve got more money than ever before.
Luckily they’re in the minority, otherwise I’d
have a tougher time with my budget than I
have.

TEACHER: Do you know any who patronize black
markets?

HOUSEWIFE: No, thank heaven. And if I did, I
wouldn’t know them long. Why that’s practi-
cally treason.

TEACHER: Mother Goose thinks so, too. Like to
hear what she says?

(Housewife nods.)

TEACHER (Reads) :

There was a crooked woman who lived in
crooked style

She dealt at crooked markets with a crooked
little smile

She viewed herself as clever with her crooked

ration book,
But everybody knew her for a crooked little
crook.

HOUSEWIFE: That’s the way I feel.
there anything nice that Mother Goose says

about people who don’t cheat?

TEACHER: Let’s see. (She turns the pages.) Why
yes, how about this?

RECREATION

But isn’t.

MOTHER GOOSE KNOWS BEST 93

Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard

To see what its shelves afforded
Not much in sight, but she felt all right
For none of the stuff was hoarded.

HOUSEWIFE: That’s about the way it is with me.
We certainly don’t live very high, and I haven’t
had a new dress for a year, and my coat is five
years old, but. . . .

\VAR WORKER: Miaow. Miaow. Am I s11pposed
to blush with shame because I’ve got a new
coat—the hrst fur coat I ever had in my life?

HOUSEWIFE: I—-I didn’t intend to sound cattish.
It’s a nice coat.

WAR WORKER (to Teacher): \Vell, Miss Goose,
has your mother anything to say about the hun-
dred and fifty bucks this coat set me back?

TEACHER: I'guess I had that coming. Maybe I
have sounded a little catty. But—you started
asking about inflation, and what you had to do
with it, or what it had to do with you, and
naturally our remarks are likely to sound pretty
personal. Sorry.

WAR WORKER: Okay, forget it. I’ll be the hor—
rible example or the guinea pig——if it’ll help to
get this inflation business straight. Shoot.

TEACHER: Good girl. Let’s carry on with the

coat. It looks as if it’s worth $150, so you
weren’t like Miss Muffet. . . .

WAR WORKER: Mamma Goose again?

TEACHER: Correct. Mother Goose says ——-

Little Miss Muffet

Bought her some stuff, it

Cost twice what she ought to pay.
Her conscience inside her

\Vill certainly ride her
And so will the CPA.

WAR WORKER: (Starts to protest.)

TEACHER: I said you weren’t like Miss Muffet,
the price is okay. But did you need a $150 coat?
WAR W'ORKER: Try to get a good fur for less——
or a phony fur, either. Have fur coats gone up!

MAY 1945

With saved up

W'AR WORKER :

TEACHER: Well, then, did you need a fur coat.

WAR W'ORKER: Look, I ride a long way and walk
quite a distance. This is a cold climate. I think
a good fur is cheaper than pneumonia. Anyhow,
I expect to make this coat last a long time.

TEACHER: Fair enough. Now, have you paid for
it?

WAR WORKER: Who’s business is—-—Oh, I forgot,
I’m a guinea pig. No, I still owe seventy-five
bucks and I’m paying five dollars a week in

quote easy quote payments. “What does that
make me, a traitor?

HOUSEWIFE: No, my dear, but it makes you an
inflator. I’ve just been reading about that. You
see, when you buy on time you create credit
and—and—well, that increases spending power
and adds tO the demand for goods, and that
pushes up prices, and that’s why the government

_ asks us not to do it.

\VAR W’ORKER: I begin to get a little glimmer.
You can spend credit as well as cash.

TEACHER: That’s the idea. Mother Goose has
something to say about that—-in reverse.
Listen ——

Jack and Jill paid up a bill
A long due obligation.
It was an act by which in

fact
They helped "to check in-
Hahon.

WAR WORKER: Well, I
see that. If buying on
credit boosts prices,
paying up bills tends
the other way. I’m be-
ginning to think
Mamma Goose is a
wise old owl. But what
does she say about

what to do with what you don’t spend?

 

TEACHER: Well, how’s this? ——

Mary, Mary, don’t
be wary

Tell us how your
fortunes grow.

sums, life
premiums,

And pretty war-
bonds in a row.

Thinks of
everything,

 

94 MOTHER GOOSE KNOWS BEST

doesn’t she? Maybe she has a rhyme about what
I ought to do with this coat, now. Do I take it
back, or hock it? Nope—couldn’t do that, that
would create credit again! “(hat to do, what
to do!

WAC: Don’t be silly, of course you keep the coat.
Only. . . .

WAR WORKER: Only, when I get it paid for, don’t
buy any more stuff on installments, hey?

TEACHER: Not until we have the Axis—and In-
flation—licked.

WAR WORKER: Check! “Cash and carry” is my
name from now on. And very little Of that!
You know, I’m kind of glad you girls got real
personal. It’s the only way a dumb cluck like
me would get sense pounded into her. Now, see
if I’ve got it. I’m not just one Jane—with thir-
teen bucks a week to spend, I’m one of millions
of Janes with loose money. And if each of us
millions don’t watch our steps we’ll all be blow-

ing our loose cash—and more, like me with the
coat. Right?

TEACHER : Right.

WAR WORKER: So then prices would go up and
up—--and . . .

OTHERS: Right.

WAR WORKER: Wait a minute. Why would prices
go up? There’s a coat to buy—I buy it. There’s
another coat to buy—somebody else buys it. I
don’t see how. . . .

TEACHER: Because there’s a war on. Maybe
there are enough fur coats for everybody that
wants one, I don’t know, but there aren’t enough
of most things. There can’t be, because half the
goods we’re making are war goods and you
can’t buy them. So if fifteen or twenty or thirty
million women—to say nothing Of men—go on
a spending spree with this loose money, as you
call it, they’re fighting for goods that are scarce.
Ever been to an auction?

WAR WORKER: Say no more, sister, say no more.
I’ve got a piece of junk home I paid ten dollars
for just to get it away from somebody else at
one of those auction sales. I was stuck. And if
we all started bidding against each other, up go
the prices, blooie goes our money, and we’d all
be stuck.

WAC: (Getting up and going to a poster showing a
soldier in a foxhole.) We’d all be stuck—and
these boys worst of all.

HOUSEWIFE: Why would it hit them any harder
than the rest of us? '

\VAC: Because, if we had inflation, they’d come
home to find the money they’d savedu—and
they’ve saved a lot—-——wouldn’t buy half what
they’d planned to have, and need, to get back
into civilian life. They might find the money
they counted on to carry them till they got jobs
wouldn’t last half as long. Remember, their pay
is fixed by law. Their wages don’t swell when
prices swell, the way most civilian pay does. And
if those boys came back, after fighting for their
country, and found that their country had _let
prices run away by inflatibn, it would be just
like stealing half of what they’d earned by blood
and sweat.

WAR WORKER: Say, they aren’t going to have a
bad break like that if I can do anything about it.

TEACHER: We can all do something about it. And
it calls for nothing but common sense and pa-
triotism.

WAR WORKER: Andna string around the bank
roll. Believe me, I’m little Miss Miser from
here on.

HOUSEWIFE: Oh, you don’t have to be a miser.
You just have to shop carefully. As it says in
a little verse I read today——
Shopping advice—

It’s well to heed it -~—_
How fair’s the price?

And—do I need it?

WAR WORKER: Shop carefully, says you! Here’s
where I get a little personal, maybe, but us
working girls would find that a lot easier to do
if we didn’t run into a jam of homebodies doing
their shopping just when we come off shift and
have a few minutes before the stores close.
Those darnes'have all day to shop—why don’t
they leave us some room when we have to do
ours? I’ll bet the day shift’s fighting to get to
the counters right now through a mob of wives
that could have got theirs any time, all day.
Still, I’ll shop as carefully as they’ll let me.
(Sound of bus outside. They start toward door.
Bus driver opens door and calls out, “All
aboard”)

(Wac, War Worker, and Teaeher go through
door. Housewife starts to follow, then lags,
indecisively.)

BUs DRIVER: Comin’, lady?

HOUSEWIFE: (Starts to hurry, then stops.) No.
I’m going to wait until tomorrow morning. The
stores are so crowded at this time with war
workers'that you can’t get near the counters.

RECREATION

l’r's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

ANIMAL Wild Life. “The Natural History
and Behaviour of the Western Chipmunk
and the Mantled Ground Squirrel,” by Kenneth
Gordon. Oregon State College Monograph. 104
pp. Illus. 75 cents.

Conservation. “We need to face the unpleasant
fact that there are two world-wide wars going on
—one, man’s destruction of man; the other, his
destruction of the ‘living resources’ of nature,
upon which his own existence depends. . . . It can
be said without hesitation that the velocity of
destruction of these ‘living resources’ not only in
this country, but in many parts of the earth is
infinitely greater than is generally realized. It
would be well indeed if these matters were made
the subject, to a far greater degree than at present,
of international collaboration. The declining land
productivity of a nation can push it into war as
readily as some other cause.”

“Descriptive Meteorology,” by Hurd C. Willett.
Academic Press, Inc., 310 pp. Illus. $4.00.

Grasshoppers, a nickname for locusts. To com-
bat locust plagues in the Middle East, an organi-
zation has been set up in London under the Anti-
Locust Research Center, to send tried poisons to
the entire territory and to conduct new local ex—
periments.

“Historical Geology,” the Geological History of
North America,” by Russell C. Hussey. 'McGraw.

491 pp. Illus. $3.50.

Insect Collectors. “How to Make an Insect Col-
lection.” VVhiteward’s Natural Science Establish-

ment. P. O. Box 24, Beechwood Station, Roches-
ter 9, N. Y. 15 cents.

“Meteorology, a Practical Course in Weather,”
by George J. Brands. McGraw. 235 pp. Illus.

$2.50.

Minneapolis. A cooperative nature program be-
teen the parks and the Natural History Museum

is getting under way in parks and community
centers in Minneapolis.

MAY 1945

Mountains. Mount Rainier, now covered with a
mantle of glacial ice, once was a flaming volcano,
and steam jets at its summit melt caves in the

SHOW.

Naturalists. “The Book of Naturalists,” edited
by William Beebe. Alfred A. Knopf. 499 pp.
$3.50.

Nature .Musemn, Geneva, New York. Opened
April 8, 1937. It has three rooms in the Junior

High School. Mrs. Hugh Glasgow is the director.
Its chief aim is to interest children in living

.things. Nineteen Junior Audubon Clubs which run

through the summer have been started by the
museum. It issues a Nature Museum News which
tells about activities and is accompanied by a hand-
colored picture. The volunteer staff deserves great
credit. Theirs is a labor of love. Their reward
is the enthusiasm of the youngsters. It is neces-
sary to discover in each community the “key”
person who not only cares but has the ability and
stick-to-it-iveness to work day in and day out to
build the basis of nature recreation. Geneva has
found this one person.

Nature Recreation is not a process of fact jam-
ming and periodic regurgitation. There will always
be stuffed shirts but marked erudition does not
guarantee happiness. This is where nature recre—
ation comes in. Nature recreation is something
that nature does to the whole human being. It is
not a process of mere cerebration. If anything, it
relieves brain pressure. It respects knowledge that
has as it aim the greatest good for human person-
ality in relation to all humanity.

Outdoor F nu for Youth. Are you alive to what
is going on all over the country? Atlanta and
Decatur, Georgia: woodlore and nature study in
camp. Fees, 50 cents to $2.00 a week. Camden,
N. J.: Nature study and hikes on week-ends.
Fees, 25 cents to 75 cents. Fort Worth, Texas:
Fishing camp ten miles away. Seneca, Illinois:
Housing project hikes for teen-agers. Los An-
geles, California: Camping trips to 3,000-acre city
park. Topeka, Kansas: Week-end school outings
to camp. What do you do?

95

WORLD AT PLAY

IN THE heart of Los An-
geles lie 425 acres of wil-
derness. Here in bygone
days sheep herders grazed their flocks and miners
bruised the earth to search for gold. Here, too,
rock and gravel were quarried, and ladies and gen-
tlemen from movieland dashed afoot or a-horse-
back through the chills and thrills of many a
“western.”

Now the woods and canyons, the streams and
waterfalls, the birds and deer, the history and tra-
dition Of these acres are about to become a recrea-
tion area Operated by the Recreation Commission
for the peOple Of Los Angeles. Part of the tract
will become the site for three camps, two for
younger children, one for teen-age boys, to com-
pare with the already existing camping facilities
for girls. The rest Of the tract will be controlled
by the Commission, safe from the ordinary ills that
city prOperty is heir to.

The Heart of a City

THE Chicago Park Dis-
trict queried 20,000 men
in service who had for-
merly been participants in the program of the
Park District: “What are you going to want?
What should we have ready for you in the way of
recreation?” The summary of answers included
mention most frequently of sports, social events
such as dancing, and a hangout room. Fishing,

neighborhood picnic dinners, and similar events
were also listed.

What They Want

“WHAT do we Offer
them? Excellent premises
in the center of the city,
open all day. There are six large floors—central
heating, adequate equipment, and a maximum of
color and light. All the amenities dear to the heart
of young folk will be there—a cafe, lounge, danc-
ing, dramatic club, and provision for meetings,
discussion groups, and a quiet room for reading
and writing. There will be a full-time experienced
leader to guide, rather than control, the varied
activities of the club. Above all, the club will Offer
to young people an adventure in friendship and in
the art of living, as members Of a community.

“It is upon our young peOple that the risks and

Deed in the Present

96

uncertainties of war fall most heavily. Their
peacetime problems are made more difiicult when
parents are in the Army or on other war work. . . .
This club is a gesture of friendship from the older
to the younger folk——a dced in the present, not a
vague promise for the future. . . .”

Does all this sound strangely familiar? Do you
think it might come from the next town to you?
Actually, it is from a brochure issued on behalf of

the Jack and Jill Club, Bradford, Yorks, England.

FORTY acres of woodland

some eight miles from

town were deeded to the
Indianapolis Park Department with the under-
standing that it was to be preserved in its native
state for the use of nature groups.

The Indiana Nature Study Club has taken a
prOprietary interest in the area and constructed a
building which serves as a meeting place and shel-
ter. Trails have been constructed, and one open
area near the river is kept open to serve as a bird
observation spot. The Nature Study Club has been
largely responsible for this development.

Woolen Woods

A POTTERY class has been
added to the recreation
program of the Board of
Education of Ithaca, New
York. Thirty-eight children enrolled in the eve-
ning class which opened in March, and an after-
noon class will be started to care for the children
who could not be accommodated in the evening
class. Moist clay is used, and finished pieces are
fired and glazed at the city pottery works.

Pottery Classes for
School Children

THE CITY Park Depart-
ment of Spokane, Wash-
ington, received a pro-
posal which its members
welcomed when Mrs. Josie C. Shadle appeared
before the department with a suggestion that she
donate a playground to the city as a memorial to
her husband, formerly director of the Spokane
River Parkways Association. The Park Depart-
ment accepted her Offer with appreciation and is
now considering several possible sites at which the
new playground might be located.

A Playground for
Spokane

RECREATION

i
4
l
i
i
l
l

rmr coweer
Mr VA 6101/55 2:

  
  

BUY WAR BONDS
REGULARLY

MAY 1945

FOR ME CHAMPEEN—
5m» 0F 77/5 wo/w .’

yo aka: w
GREAT .SWA PE,

WINS AGAIN !

<1  svu'mznc-RUBMR-covmeb
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
M0941. by W. 1. Von Rubber Corp»
'600 E 25m Sm. low Angeles II, Calif.

(Mums Month 131'. No Wacker Drive Zone 6

 

THE BEST DEALERS
ARE VOIT DEALERS

   

97

98 WORLD AT PLA Y

BEING Tl] BE A
PLAYEBIIUND WIIBKEH
THIS SUMMER?

o If you are planning to be a playground
director or a playground leader this sum-
mer the National Recreation Association
has a number of publications which will
help you. Here are just a few.

Conduct of Playgrounds . . S .35
Summer Playground Notebook 1.00
Games for Children . . . . .50

For the Storyteller . . . . . .35

HandsUp....... .35
(Hand games. tricks, and finger play)

Arts and Crafts for the Recrea-
tion Leader . . . . . . 1.50

Silver Bells and Cockle Shells .35

(Seven plays and a pageant for children)

These are of course only a few of the book-
lets and pamphlets available. Write to the
National Recreation Association for a
complete list of publications.

Clubs for Older Peoples—As a result of an
appeal in a recent issue of the Philadelphia Feder-
ation of Churches Newsletter, two church groups
in that city are opening clubs. At Christ Evan-
gelical Reformed Church weekly clubs are meeting
each Wednesday afternoon at 2 :30 P. M. Plans are
under way for the opening of the second church
center in West Philadelphia.

Cultural Recreation for Phoenix, Arizona”
The Phoenix Park and Recreation Department has
recently added cultural recreation to its program.
They have Opened a building at Encanto Park
where they have classes in art, writing, acting,
speech, stage appearance, radio, and photography.

Gas Rationing No Problem for ThemmEn—
thusiastic cyclists have banded together in clubs in
Elmhurst, Long Island, and in New York City.
The Elmhurst club began life with a membership
of thirty boys, pupils at Newtown High School.
They call themselves the Newtown Wheelmen and
they have laid out a program that includes pleasure
\tours, racing for individuals, radio broadcasts,
meetings, collecting “cyclana,” and theater parties.

After the club had been in Operation for a while
the boys decided that they would like to have the
girls along on their jaunts, so they opened the
membership to the ladies.

The New York Club is the New York District
of the Cyclists Touring Club of England. The
spring schedule began March 18 with an inter-
borough tour. During summer vacation some
members of the club plan to cycle for a week or
two in the Adirondacks or on Cape Cod. Since
this club has English affiliations dues are payable
in shillings.

When the Boys Come Home—“Santa Bar-
bara, California, is preparing for a big reception
for its returning servicemen, and younger brothers,
sisters, and friends are whipping a band into shape
for the day of the great return. Under the aegis
of the city Recreation Department instruction in a
band and orchestra is being given five days a week
at schools and playgrounds.

For five months 10,000 citizens worked on rais—
ing funds for a civic and recreation center for the
returned servicemen. Money has been raised, and a
building authorized and deeded to the city. Plans
are under way for remodeling it. The finished
building will have auditoriums, a craft studio, gym—
nasium, conference rooms, playrooms, and kitchens.

Recreation in Housing Deve10pments—The
February 26 issue of San Francisco ReCreation
announces that with the completion of recreation
facilities at a half dozen or so housing develop-
ments the number of recreation units operated in
housing developments by the Recreation Depart-
ment will total nineteen. Facilities include play-
grounds, outdoor athletic fields, gymnasiums, and
other indoor facilities. A number of the recreation
units involve trailer courts and dormitories for
men.

These centers are being operated at least twelve
hours a day as a result of a cooperative agreement
which has been in existence since the opening of
the Authority’s hrst housing project in San
Francisco.

Folk Dancing and Rehabilitation *— Folk
dancing should have an important place in the re-
habilitation of war veterans, according to Gene
Gowing who is conducting square dances once a
week at the Seamen’s Church Institute in New
York City. Every Tuesday night Mr. Gowing
appears at the Institute with a fiddler or pianist,
and soon the floor is crowded. Mr. Gowing be-

 
  

GULF

SANl-SOIL-SET
Controls DUST

Quickly and effectively!

  
   
   
   

hibition drill at South
mmon, Lowell, Mass.

ust controlled effec-

cly with Gulf Sani-
il-Set. Note the clean,
hite appearance of
iforms and shoes.

l Why Gulf Sani—Soz'l—Set is
be practical answer to JIM

dust annoyance problems:

    
   

EIedive—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust annoy-
nce completely immediately after application. No long
waiting periods are necessary before the ground is ready
or use. The dust allaying el'feCt is accomplished by the
.crion of the compound in' adhering to and weighing
lown dust particles. In addition, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set pos-
lesses valuable germicidal properties.

long lasting —Because of its extremely low volatility and
Insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains effec-

live for long periods. One application per season or year
is usually sufficient.

Zesily Applied —Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing, easy
hnd pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-sprinkling

can or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly and
uniformly.

Saves Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set prevents
the growth of grass on areas treated, and minimizes dust
annoyance and expense in near-by houses, stores, and
laundries.

Write today for the booklet giving complete informa-
tion about this modern, proven duSt allayer.

 

Gulf Oil Corporation ° Gulf Refining Company R
5800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 50, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy ofthe booklet, “Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern proven agent for controlling dusr.”

 

100

They'll Want.
Diamond Shoes!

FELLOWS who learned to enjoy the game

of horseshoes in army camps and navy
bases, with Diamond Pitching Shoes, will

call for Diamond Shoes when they get home.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard ORicial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and
Official Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CAtK

~ HORSESHOE CO.

46I0 Grand Ave.. Duluth, Minn.

 

lieves that after the war folk dancing will become
very important in the rehabilitation of both physi-
cally and mentally affected veterans. “Square danc-
ing,” he says, “is at once exacting and relaxing.
“You have to listen attentively to the calls, but at
the same time you’re having so much fun that you
drop yOur inhibitions and genuinely relax.”——From
the New York W arid-Telegram, June 13, 1944.

Playground Safety—Since the first public
playground was opened by the city of Hartford
at Pope Park in 1901, only one fatal accident has
occurred in the twenty—seven outdoor public rec-
reation centers within the cityhlimits.——From Play-
ground Safety, published by the Connecticut High-
way Safety Commission, Hartford, Conn.

Crafts for Recreation Departments
Write for Catalog

CLEVELAND CRAFTS
East Cleveland I2l Ohio

Box 243 I

 

WORLD A T PLA Y

Philadelphia’s Playground Festiva1——The an-
nual playground festival conducted by the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of Philadel-
phia last summer commemorated the tercentenary
of the birth of William Penn in a program of
selected games and dances around the world pre-
sented by the children of the tot lots and play-
grounds. The finale consisted of a patriotic dance
and Victory march, followed by a pact with Wil—
liam Penn: “We, the children gathered here,
pledge ourselves to live together in the American
way of good will, brotherly love, and equal oppor-
tunity for all.”

Atlanta Youngsters Stimulate Recreation
Plans—Community-minded youngsters in the
Little Five Points area of Atlanta, Georgia (1940
population, 442,294), have established a recreation
center for the whole family. The center is located
in a portable building at a local high school, and
will provide adequate facilities for all ages: piano,
juke box, soft drink bar and so forth. The school
playground will be available for athletics.

It was through the combined efforts of three
groups that the community idea came into exist—
ence : the Community Council which is made up of
leaders of forty-five civic, church, and parental
groups in the neighborhood; the Youth Council,
made up of former student government members
from the high school and the president of the Girl’s
High student body; and the City Recreation De—
partment—News Letter, December 1, 1944, Fed-
eral Security Agency, Office of Community War
Services.

An English Orchestra Plays for Children——
In the midst of war Birmingham, England, is ex-
panding a twenty-four year old educational pro-
gram in music. The City of Birmingham Orches-
tra has been sending sectional and miniature or-
chestras to the schools and on occasion holding
special children’s concerts at the Town Hall for
many years. This year, with an increased appro-
priation from “the rates,” the string section of the
orchestra will give “lesson” recitals in all the Bir-
mingham primary and secondary schools; play
concerts by full orchestra in 'the Town Hall with
explanatory talks on music which the children have
studied beforehand; accompany music festivals by
the children, performances by massed children’s
choirs, and by pipe and percussion bands; conduct
special concerts for “school-leavers” and members

7 of youth organizations.

RECREATION

i

A TREE FOR MOTHERS 101'

   

IT’S"W|LSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 To Spot the Newest

IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Just look for
that famous name

..w . e ,.

The armed forces have had first call
upon our expanded production of
sports equipment for some time. Our
designers have been stimulated. too.
Wherever you see the name "Wilson"

on any sports equipment you'll know
it's the newest and best ior I945.

Wilson Sporting Goods Co.I Chicago.
New York and other leading cities.

*

MEMBER: The Athletic Institute, a nan-
profit organizatinn dedicated to the advance-

ment of national physical fitness.

*

Let's all boost the ““'ar Memorials That
Live” campaign to commemorate our war
heroes.

Wilson Athletic Goad: Mfg. (30., Inc.
Chicago Plant

 

 

 

 

A Tree for Mothers

AMERICAN FORESTS, published by the American
Forestry Association, Washington, D. C., has
suggested that the beautiful and meaningful cus-
tom of planting a “Mother’s Tree” in May, pref-
erably on Mother’s Day, be given special observ—
ance in a war year.

May I 3 will mark the twenty—second anniversary
of the “Mother’s Tree,” a custom originated in
1923 by the late Solan Parkes of Pennsylvania,
and later adopted and sponsored by the American
Forestry Association. Mr. Parkes as a tribute to
his mother planted a white birch, called by Coler-
idge the “Lady of the Woods,” and this was later
designated by the American Forestry‘Asso'ciation
as the national tree to be planted in honor of moth-

ers and motherhood. The Europeanform, Betnla
laciniata, was selected because it is more beautiful
in form than our native American or paper birch
and also because it will grow almost anywhere
except in very arid regions.

Under the Association’s sponsorship, white
birches have been dedicated to individual mothers,
to mothers belonging to the nation, to groups of
mothers—even to the mother of the Unknown
Soldier at Arlington, Virginia. A “Mother’s Tree”
stands on the Vv’hite House grounds to honor the
mothers of our presidents, past and to come. At
Fredericksburg, Virginia, at the tomb of Mary
Ball, mother of George \Vashington, stands an-
other “Mother’s Tree.” And on the capitol grounds

in NNashington a white birch stands, dedicated to
the mothers of the nation.

102 PLASTER MOLDING

A State Board
in North Carolina

111?. STATE LEGISLATURE of North Carolina has
Tpassed a bill establishing a North Carolina
Recreation Commission of seven lay members with
an Advisory Committee of thirty members and
with an apprOpriation of $7,500 for each year for
two years.

It is true that most states have had for some
time boards related to parks, schools, conservation,
agriculture, forestry which give some time to rec-
reation, but the new law in North Carolina pro—
vides for a state board concerned solely with rec—
reation which is established by the Legislature itself.
In other words, something very definite and new
has been added. .

In bringing about this legislation Harold Meyer
has had a large part, not only through his.hard
work but also through his able leadership.

Painting for Fun

(Continued from page 61)

of the show were, nevertheless, favorable, the Sun
going so far as to say any professional might be
proud to do as well. But what did the amateur’s
wife say when the plumbing was mysteriously
stopped up with plaster of Paris?

The War Department has made an important
announcement to the CPS who have taken up art
for recreation. The following notice was printed
in the February I issue of the Art Digest: “In
order to stimulate interest in art as off-duty rec—
reational activity, the War Department has an-
nounced a national Army competition which will
culminate in a Washington showing next July.
Members of each Army post and hospital may send
entries to their service command headquarters for
regional exhibition, after which thirty works from
each group will be chosen for the final contest at
the National Gallery of Art. Awards in eight
classes include prizes for oil painting, sculpture,
and drawing in the various media.”

Having once fallen in love with painting for the
fun of it, when the war is over Joe is not going to
be content with games which kill time, or with too
much commercial entertainment. He will continue
to be absorbed in his creative hobby. Who knows?
Perhaps we are headed for an American renais-
sance.

So get your brush, have your fun, and see where
it leads you.

Plaster Molding

(Continued from page 70)

their “order books” under the name of the figurine
he wanted. No one was allowed to have a second
choice order until all first choices were filled. In
this way everybody had something to show for
this afternoon in the park. Of course, there was
some breakage due to increased production, but the
broken models were sometimes as well loved by
the tiny tots as their perfect ones.

I?

At the next table we set up a “Paint Shop
where boxes of water colors were set out for any—
one who wished to color the little figures. Finally,
when demand was exceeding production to such a
degree that we were nearly frantic, the superin-
tendent asked two little girls who had plaster
molding sets of their own to come and help us.
We now had at least fourteen molds and five
operators—so more people were happier sooner.

We continued molding for over a week, work-
ing from two to five hours each day. We used
seventy pounds of plaster, which was furnished by
the Playground and Recreation Commission. When
you consider that the average mold we used re-
quired only three heaping teaspoonfuls of plaster
you can see that in the course of the week we had
made hundreds of figures and plaques. The horse,
dog, monkey, frog, and squirrel were the most
popular figures, but no one turned down a flower
plaque if that was the only thing available. One
of the girls who helped us had molds for several
sacred images, and these were especially dear to
the Catholic children.

We have tried to secure ready-made molds for
this summer’s work. So far these have not been
available. However, rubber cement is still on the
market, so we hope to expand the activity in 1945
not only by making more figures, but by making
our own molds. Plaster molding was by far our
most successful playground activity for the sum—

mer of 1944.

The business department was interesting and
valuable training for the youngsters. The order
department, the painting department, and the
actual production department required new inter-
ests and initiative from the children in charge of
them. It was good training for these boys and
girls and they, as well as the smaller ones, were
interested in the figures to take home. The chil-
dren would have spent the whole day at this craft
if theyhad been allowed to do so.

RECREATION

i
l
l
I

l
l
1
l
i

PLAYGROUND TO CITY VIA COLLEGE 103

  

I. o u I s V I I. I. E
Playground to City via College

(Continued from page 89)
ence of filling in a strip of eroded land by means

of a dam.

Collecting Magazines for Veteran's Hospitals.
Information was received that a new veteran’s
hospital was badly in need of magazines and other
reading materials. Older boys of the playground
immediately organized a magazine-collection cam-
paign. ‘

First, they decided on the kind of magazines
most suitable and how they could be collected. An
article in a local newspaper told the public about
the project. In the actual collecting process, the
larger boys used bicycles, and smaller children
used wagons. As magazines were brought in a
Committee on Sorting and Tying took charge,
arranged the magazines in consecutive order, and
tied them into bundles convenient for handling.

The Packing and Shipping Committee had, in
the meanwhile, collected pasteboard boxes from
the stores in town. They packed the bundles in
boxes and tied them securely. Each member of the
group made out one shipping tag, using his own
name and return address. The boxes, containing

MAY 1945

 

0 Yes, America's No. I Sport is
already well in its l06th season. In
happier years H 8: B would be featur-
ing its selected player-models, but all
Baseball knows that Uncle Sam's orders
tor Louisville Sluggers must be filled
first—so until victory is won' make
last year's models see you through as
far as you can. When the boys come
home—Louisville Sluggers will again
be yours in a wide selection of models
tor every style at hitter.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY 00., INC.

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

Manufacturers of Louisville.- Slugger bu for
Baseball and Saftball: Louisville Grand Slam
and Louisville Lo-Skure Golf Clubs.

Enough free copies of these
famous book: will be sent you for
“~- «,1 your teams. Write Dept. R.

SLGGER BATS

six hundred pounds of reading material, were then
shipped to the hospital. The planning committee
had charge of the finances connected with the pro j-
ect, and the expenses of the committee were met
through the sale of unusable magazines that were
classified as waste paper.

The Junior SpecialI A Playground Newspaper.

This was a weekly paper which improved with
each issue. It expanded from a one-page hand-
printed paper of five articles into a two-page peri-
odical, complete with headlines and leads.

The newspaper carried accounts of the activities
and interests of boys and girls of the playground
center. It gave children an outlet for their creative
ability and made them aware of the achievements
of their fellows. To create a desire to take part in
in an activity, to do something that was worth
doing, to have the children self-guided as much as
possible, to develop the ability to judge, to deve10p
the ability to organize ideas, to develop an appre-
ciation of the value of working cooperatively, and
to have the news of their children’s activities come
before parents—these were the aims of “The

Junior Special.”—-Reprinted by permission from S ch00!
Activities, November 1944.

lO—l RIGHT IN THEIR OWN BACKYARDS—AND OURS!

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MUNICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the adminiStration aspcas'of
their department and its correlation with orher departments of city government. Special emphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play-
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; flnancial support; records and

reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each

lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfaCtory completion of the work.

One enrollec recently erte, "Tmtbfully 1 cannot remember my
effort on my part which bar pair! of in dividend: to quickly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
|3l3 East 60th Street. Chicago 37. Illinois _

Right in Their Own Backyards
—ancl Ours!

(Continued from page 90)

favorite fables, old and new, to the juvenile listen-
ing audience.” The listening children were given
other news. The first story was preceded by a
broadcast by a doctor from the Louisville Health
Department who, in language children can under—
stand, explained to them why it was wiser for
them to stay at home and avoid crowds. The clos-
ing script also suggested that girls as well as boys
might, if time hung heavy on their hands, be of
real help to the war by collecting waste paper for
the paper salvage drive.

By the end of two weeks the Recreation Divi;
sion’s Storytelling Lady had received so much fan
mail it amazed even the radio station. In about
the same period of time so marked was her suc—

cess that a leading store of the city asked permis-
sion of the Recreation Division to act as her

sponsor. She soon had her own pianist to furnish
background music for her stories.

Buoyed up by the talent on our own doorstep
and encouraged by the radio station, the Division
of Recreation is planning a regular recreation
hour over the radio during the fall.

We told you earlier in this article that there
was another phase of our program for reaching

 

the children in their homes. This was a column in
the local newspaper written from material found
in the files of' any recreation department—outdoor
games requiring little or no equipment; indoor
games which. were fun and easy to understand;
easy-to-make crafts dug out from recreation files
of material garnered from the National Recreation
Association bulletins, with art work provided by
our arts and crafts supervisor. All made excellent
newspaper material. We saw the managing editor
of the evening paper one Friday afternoon, and a
series of “Fun-at-Home” ideas began in the papers
the following Monday.

As with the radio storytelling hour, we thought
of a follow-up idea. With the last two series the
paper included a boxed coupon offering the Fun-
at-Home booklet available to anyone mailing the
signed coupon to the Recreation Division. The
first coupon brought a request for 400. A second
announcement two weeks later brought another
flood of requests for 450.

\Ve’re feeling happy that the Recreation Divi-
sion was able to take fun to Louisville’s boys and
girls in these two ways. The experience gave us
two ideas. The next time something happens that
looks like bad news, we’re going to see if we can
convert it into good news. And regularly we’re
going to take a good look at the talent right on our
doorstep!

RECREATION

GOING TO SCHOOL IN THE OUT-OF-DOORS 105

Going to School in the
Out-of-Doors

IGHT MILES out of Greenwich, Connecticutfis a
E 280-acre tract which comprises the Audubon
Nature Center where the National Audubon So-
ciety holds its summer training sessions for camp
counselors, teachers, and youth leaders.

The property which comprises the center is part
of an old farm, and a number of well-built farm—
houses and barns were given the Audubon Society
with the land. The tract consists of rolling country
with hardwood forests, cut over land now covered
with shrubs and small trees, old meadows, ponds,
and streams. This variety offers rich Opportunities
for study.

Mead House, where the students live, is two
hundred years old. The ample barn on the hillside
has been skillfully transformed into a bookshop
and lecture hall on the mainfioor, with laboratories
below and a library in the hayloft.

Four two-week courses are planned for the sum-
mer of 1945-——from June 25 to July 7 for camp
counselors fifteen to twenty—five years of age; from
July 9 to 21, from July 30 to August 11, and from
August I 3 to August 25 for students twenty years
of age and over. Enrollment will be limited to
twenty students for each session.

The curriculum is built around fleld trips, with
two or three planned trips occupying the main
part of each day. Illustrated lectures amplify what
is seen in the field, and in the laboratory sessions
the material collected is examined. .

Further information about the courses may he
secured from Dr. Richard \Veaver, Educational
Director, National Audubon Society of Greenwich,
Inc., Greenwich, Connecticut.

Investment, $|.000: Dividends in
Citizenship, Unlimited

(Continued from page 81)

“slick up” a bit before they come. The members
register on arrival and check out when they leave.
There is no loitering on the homeward path. The
young peeple, by common agreement, report home
shortly after the center closes. Since its opening,
only one member of the group has had to be
penalized for misbehavior. He was a chronic
offender with a police record. Everything possible

is being done to reclaim this boy for the good of
society.

MAY 1945

M“ 0 “WV”. mum may. in...

‘l'Jhli. Sum Pu and Amalcm an"
boil and 534%.! .9 Unncnmn
C'llcgn and High Sc‘nlu in Mu.

him; al and twink-oi “cvu'N-o.
G JJuwH‘ Spa/0| Emanuel it '95-

09' ltd as Q harms-i d mum,
and unvarying pertom-nzc

Maccnrcon-oomswm m- X: sari-“sacssasfsa‘

 

Two teachers from the local high school work
with- the club members to plan a well-rounded
activities program. The leaders are using this
program building to develop leadership, initiative,
responsibility among the boys and girls.

The club has 300 members. The current budget
is about $300 a year. Membership fees are fifty
cents a year. The rest of the budget is raised by
special programs at the club. The group is work-
ing now on a plan to raise additional funds which
will be turned over to the city for further develop-
ment of recreation facilities for Negroes.

The center is open from six to eight each eve-
ning during the school year except on Friday and
Saturday when the hours are seven to ten-thirty.
Summer hours are two to six in the afternoon.
seven to nine-thirty at night. One day in each
month is set aside for parents, an idea which
seems to be growing in p0pularity.

The Recreation Commission is confident that
the $1,000 invested in this project will pay divi—
dends for years upon years in better citizenship,
in stronger and better and happier lives for the
Negroes in the community.

Mmuhetureu. Cincinnati. 0

106 A MINIATURE ORCHESTRA

.—.——-—_._——--

NowReady
| NEW CATALOGUE
of

Arts and Crafts . . . Supplies
SEND FOR IT—NO CHARGE

 

r MA'GNUS BRUSH & CRAFT MATERIALS
New Headquarters at

108 FRANKLIN ST. NEW YORK 13, N. Y.

 

A Minia’rure Orchesi'ra

(Continued from page 88)

instruments had quite a time deciding on materi-
als, but finally decided that tagboard and gummed
paper would work best. They used black thread
for the strings and little pieces of reed for the
bows. They made a harp and grand piano as well
as violins, cellos, violas, and a bass viol. When the
instruments were done, they stained them dark oak
and varnished them. The committee responsible
for the brass instruments had so many twists and
turns to make in their horns that they decided to
bend wire into the shape and cover it with small
strips of adhesive tape. They used tagboard held
together with gummed paper for the large ends of
their instruments. They painted them with gold
and silver paint. The woodwind committee rolled
tagboard into shape, fastened it with gummed
paper, and used little pieces of sucker sticks for
push buttons. The percussion committee had so
many different instruments to make that they had
quite a time finding suitable material. Besides tag-
board, gummed paper, and wire, they used small
pieces of cardboard, wood, sheet copper, leather,
and string. We found it best to paint our instru-
ments with enamel in most cases, since this cov—
ered up the gummed paper and shone in the sun.

After talking about different stages we had seen,
we decided to make ours in three tiers so that all
the pe0ple and instruments could be easily seen.
we made it of cardboard and fastened it together
with gummed paper. Then we enameled it white.

We read about seating plans of different orches-
tras and looked at many pictures. They weren’t all
alike but usually the stringed instruments were
toward the front on each side of the conductor and
the woodwinds were directly in front of him.
Brass instruments were nearly always back of the

 

stringed instruments, near the woodwinds, while
the percussion instruments were in the back. That
is the seating plan we adopted for our orchestra.

The Club Program

We invited our parents to come and see and
“hear” our orchestra of thirty-five players. Several
committees worked to get ready for our guests.
The decorations committee displayed our music
scrapbooks on the bulletin board. They also
mounted and put up pictures of modern compos-
ers. Several boys and girls made life—sized pictures
of instruments on wrapping paper, painted them,
and cut them out. The decorations committee fas-
tened these high up on the walls with Scotch
tape. The refreshment committee made little favors
consisting of nut cups decorated with paper harps
and prepared to serve orangeade and cookies to
our visitors.

The program committee picked out a group of
records and worked them into a club program.
They hid the victrola behind a screen and pre—
tended our little orchestra was really playing. Dif-
ferent pupils told about each composition that was
played and described the various instruments.
Some boys and girls worked out and gave a little
skit advertising different instruments. All of us
sang some songs with the orchestra and, on the
patriotic songs, even the audience joined in. Every-
one seemed to enjoy our program.

The clean-up committee took care of the chairs
and saw to it that everything was neat and in
order after the program.

H- Fell +0 Earth: I Know Not Where

(Continued from page 64)

loop on a perfectly drunken course, careening and
tumbling like a hawk with a broken wing—it sets
you thinking. Small wonder, you will agree, that
such devastation, such reckless and wanton de-
struction has been done in the name of Cupid, the
unconscionable little chub. Better, to be sure, had
they put in his itchy fingers the comparatively
harmless sawed—off shot gun.

And one more must if you get into this thing:
don’t believe all you hear. Fabulous tales are told,
in fact there is one yarn going the rounds which
should be discounted. As a result, we advise all
clients to sell Swiss Tell 8: Tell at the market. The
alleged No. I apple-knocker duo either got credit
for the luckiest hit on record or, on information we
have usually found to be reliable, it is all a con—
temptible liel

RECREATION

i

FROM EACH ACCORDI.‘ '6 TO HIS ABILITY 107

TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEY S "IN ACTION" IN THE SPACIOUS GAME ROOM OF THE
N. C. C. S.-USO CLUB LOCATED IN IACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

This unique, PORTABLE Two-Way Bowling Alley (requiring NO lNSTAL-

LATION COSTi) is proving to be ane at the leading game—units, now
included in RECREATION PROGRAMS all aver the country. Because at
its :4 set-up features. solid construction and convenient size, the
eiiey is perfectly adapted for immediate use as well as for postwar

building plans.

We urea you to send for campiete information and descriptive

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
I I4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

literature Including many. many letters praising the good, clean com--

petitive fun and relaxation derived from Two—Way Bowling. . . . Mail

the coupon tadayi Na obligation.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION on

Telephone LEJdngton 2-8828

e 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

From Each According to His Ability

(Continued from page 75)

socks for women going overseas for the Red Cross.
The boys made large wooden ash trays for recrea-
tion rooms in military hOSpitals and jigsaw puz-
zles of birds, animals, and flowers for blind chil-
dren all over the United States.

The things the children liked best of all to make
were Christmas decorations for servicemen over-
seas. Christmas cards, tray favors, ice cream dec—
orations, bulletin board materials, center pieces
for the table-all these were sent along in Septem-
ber, togethcr with c0pies of The Night Before
Chisinau, to clubs and hospitals overseas, to bc
opened at Christmas. All the materials had to be

MAY 1945

Name ....................................... ... .................... ..
Addreu

NEW YORK. N. Y. e

 

collapsible for shipping, and in meeting such prob-
lems the youngsters developed a new set of skills
and originality in designing.

After a swim in the pool or a good hard game
the boys and girls greatly enjoyed coming back
to the shelter house or to a quiet spot in the shade
to work at thcse different crafts. Many of them
have fathers or big brothers or cousins in one of
the services. Many of them had been feeling frus-
trated and miserable because they were just chil-
dren-—too young to have a part in the war. They
feel differently now. Some of these very things
they’ve been working on may go to Dad or Bill
or Cousin Jim overseas. The youngsters feel very
proud that they can make a contribution—and it
is a good one— to the war effort.

108 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

 

you Can Use

THE JOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In tact, on every phase of school programs relating to health,
physical education, and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July ond August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth sr., N.W., Washington 6, O. c.

—--. _..._._..——-.—-—..—

WAC's Wiles Are Womanly

” N ENGLAND,” reports a recent Army release,

I “the VVACS lived in fixed quarters which
were stationary enough to allow for home-like
trimmings. Some were quartered in old English
houses, some in Nissen huts, some in box-like huts
with pyramidal roofs, some in farm houses and
some in apartments.” But when WAC Major
Elizabeth Smith made an inspection tour, she was
struck by one thing all these differing places had
in common, ingenious home touches.

“One dayroom (a Nissen hut to begin with)
had nicely painted walls, deep blue curtains which
served for blackout and an attractive brick fountain
at one end. It was the soda-fountain that sur—
prised the major most, it being distinctly a luxury
item not on the GI list of equipment for day-
rooms.”

On inquiry, the release tells us, it developed that
the VVACs themselves had built it. “Where did
you get the brick?” rMajor Smith asked. “In a
swap, ma’am.” Neighboring GIs had the brick
somehow and were willing to make a deal with the
\‘VACs. The sergeant, a good trader, had ex—
changed the bricks for pressing one GI shirt and
sewing six GI buttons on the brick manager’s
shirts. Others in the WAC detachment had pressed
a few shirts and sewed on a few buttons in ex-
change for paint and mortar. When it came time
to build the fountain, it was necessary to make one
more swap. For the pressing of one shirt and the
’sewing on of two buttons, a talented GI in the
neighborhood came over and showed the W'ACS
how to lay brick.

___._—_

 

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of 1
Current Interest to the Recreation Worlrer

 

MAGAZINES ‘

The Nation’s Schools, April 1945

The Army Rehabilitates Its Blind Soldiers, Lt.

William A. Jameson
Rural School Combats Delinquency, Howard H.

Mosher .
Invigorating the Physical Education Program, George

T. Stafford
Liability for School Accidents, Harry N. Rosenfteld
Parks and Recreation, March-April 1945

Operating Pool Costs in Suburban Region of Chi—
cago, Robert Kingery and E. L. Bayly

Swimming Pools and Bath'houses, W. E. Bartram

Chicago’s Huge Postwar Plan

Tulsa-Teens, by Lois E. McConnell _
Minnesota Sportsmen’s Digest, January-February 1945
Providing for Outdoor EnjOyment, Reynold E.
Carlson
Journal of Health and Physical Education, March 1945

\Vhat 15 Physical Fitness? Thomas K. Cureton
The Development of a Community House, Harold

W'. COpp
Couple Stunts, Dorothea Dietz and Beryl Frech
Social Dancing for Junior High Schools

Beach and Pool, March 1945
Swimming Pools as War Memorials
Journal of Physical Education, March-April 1945
Related Values, Delbert Oberteuffer
Student Life, March 1945
A Snap, This Art! John Wehmer
Youth Leaders Digest, February 1945
Sip and Swing Clubs, Ethel Bowers
Public Management, March 1945

Developing Department Heads
Planning for Postwar Education, Bess Goodykoontz

Hygeia, April 1945

Movies for Shut-Ins, \V. G. B. Carson
Scholastic Coach, March 1945

Six-Man Rules and Trends, Lt. Stephen Epler
Safety Education, April 1945

Planned Playgrounds, Roy E. Slone

PAMPHLETS

The Mental Ward Becomes a Studio, Ernest Bruce
Haswell

Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati, Ohio

Schools at War

Education Section, War Finance Division, Treasury
Department, Washington, D. C.

Why We Need State Parks
Pennsylvania Parks Association, Philadelphia, Pa.

Ivory System Observer
Ivory System, Peabody, Mass.
A Pastor Believes in Recreation

By E. O. Harbin. Issued by the General Board of
Education of the Methodist Church, 810 Broadway,
Nashville 2, Tennessee

Basketball Chart and Scorebook
.Hillyard Company, St. Joseph, Missouri

RECREATION

LET’S HAVE LIVING MEMORIALS 109

Let's Have Living Memorials

(Continued from page 74)
lishment of cultural centers, where citizens can

gather for recreation and interesting activities, as
a fitting memorial to the heroes of this war.

The city of Peterboro was one of the first to act
on this idea. A citizens’ committee is raising a
fund of $275,000. In its announcement the com-

mittee stated:

"In doing *honor to those who gave their lives, this
memorial will serve to bring about a better city for
which they fought. \Ve have neglected the youth of
our city in not giving them the necessary equipment
and facilities with which to build sound bodies and
minds, :1 requisite of good citizens. To correct this
situation, the citizens will build a memorial community
center for health, culture and recreation, with particu-
lar stress on the develoliment of young people.”

In Newmarket, Ontario, property owners voted
five to one for the purchase of an arena to be
Operated as a town project. In Calgary. the local
Council of Women pledged their support for the
construction of a memorial community center in
tribute to the men of Calgary who had fallen in
battle.

Norman S. Dowd, executive secretary of the
Canadian Congress of Labor, summed up labor's
stand on this point : “It is unquestionably the view
of the workers of Canada as represented by this
Congress that war memorials should take the form
of community halls, libraries, recreation and other
community centers, rather than sculptured stone or
bronze."

The urge to memorialize the dead soldier is old
and deep. Living memorials are the finest way of
commemorating and perpetuating the memory of
those who gave their lives in battle for human
freedom and prOgress.—Extracts from an article
in Modern Digest, January 1945, published in
Toronto, Canada.

In the january 1943 issue of RECREATION there
appeared a tribute by Dr. \Villiam Gould Vinal to
Robert Salisbury Cole, one of the first, if not the
first student of Massachusetts State College to give
his life for his country in World \Var II.

Bob Cole, upon his graduation in June 1939,
became Nature Guide at the Mt. Tom State Reser—
vation in Massachusetts. Each day he took visit-
ors along the trail and pointed out the interesting
phenomena of glaciation, volcanic lava flow, and
tracks of ancient dinosaurs. Mt. Tom became a
geological shrine to which Hocked many tourists.
It was estimated that 6,000 people used Bob’s self-

MAY 1945

  
 
 
 
 
 
  

Both National regulation "hardball" and
"softball" baaea are uaed aa the atandard
in many leaguea and recreational depart-
meme. Guaranteed to give long playing
satlafartion. National patented reveralhle
softball baaea have proven extremely
popular. Write for eomplete detaiia.

  

NATIONAI.

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
"M I-u .T‘. O'WNF". C W'S

guiding nature trail and 800 attended his trips
afield during that first summer. Under his leader-
ship so much interest was aroused in nature recre—
ation that a Trailside Museum was built to house
local collections and to serve as a gathering place
for nature enthusiasts.

Today that museum bears the name of Robert
Salisbury Cole and stands as a memorial to a boy
who loved nature and helped others to an appre-
ciation of its beauties.

Why not more living memorials of this kind?

The Birds and the Beasts

(Continued from page 65)

outline and chain stitch. It is so umch fun, and it
is really amazing that such effective work can be
done with just these two stitches.

Boys, too, from eight to twelve years partici-
pated in this program—the emphasis being block
printing. They enjoyed it very much and many of
them toward the latter part of the summer were
cutting blocks of their own design. To keep down
expenses, we used soap erasers instead of linoleum
blocks, unless the children wanted to buy their own
blocks to keep. Most of the boys made table mats,
while a few made small wall hangings or pictures
for their rooms.

As a culmination of this project,* we arranged a
little exhibit during the last week the playgrounds
were open. The exhibit was held at our office
building, a central location in the the city, and all
the children who participated in this program were
invited to come. The animals and block prints
were placed on exhibit shelves and the embroid—
eries mounted on large red cardboard, which was
quite effective against the dull green walls of the
room. Lemonade and cookies were served, mak-
ing the afternoon quite like a grown-up art exhibit
and tea.

* Patterns for the stuffed animals are available from the

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.

110 A REALISTIC POSTWAR PLAN

   

You learned lo WRlTE'Whg not
LEARN,O DRAW and PAINT!

U f This Fascinatingllew,
Practical Horne-Study Book

TELLS YOU HOW!

Far Young and lllll—Illl Hast
Measurable Hubby at them All!

Drawing and painting with
Charcoal. oils and water-colors. for recreation
and relaxation . . . for pleasure and possible
substantial profit in art as a profession . . . re-
quires no special "natural talent". no "art—

gift". YOU LEARNED TO WRlTE—WHY
NOT LEARN TO DRAW and PAINT!

Winston Churchill learned to draw and paint
at. 40 . . . atill follows this delightful hobby to-
day at 70! Drawing and painting is becoming
the favored hobby of great numbers of men
and women. young and old . . . youngsters in
school. housewives, business and professional
men and women . . . who find in THIS HOBBY
a measure of "release". relaxation and rec-
reation no other activity offers. Themagazine
"RECREATION" asys: "Painting pictures is
fun. YOU can do it. Anybody can do it.”

Fresh from the prone we offer Dr. G. Richardson
Brigham‘s splendid work: "HOW TO DRAW AND
PAINT" . . . a condensed. precricel. easy-to-
foliow home-study course in charcoal. oil and
water-color drawing and painting. This new
treatise by Dr. Brigham was written especially for
home-study use. The complete course is pub-
liahed in one compact, attractively prmted volume
. . . and included with each book is our Supple-

. mental Portfolio of Selected Art Subjects. repro-
duction: of seven selected paintings, each on 73:10"
sheet suitable for framing. Book and Portfolio
subject to return any time within ten days for
full refund of your money if not satisfied. Write

for free descriptive literature.

MUELLER PUBLICATIONS

am -A South Blvd. OAK PARK. lLlIlllllS

      
 

 

 

On to Victory

(Continued from page 80)
ACTIVITIES

July I7—COMMUNITY SING WEEK
Daily group singing; popular, patriotic, American folk
songs; Songs by individuals, ducts and quartets
Checker contests; Pin Pack contests

July 24—G.\ME WEEK
Low organized gamcsh ring games, singing games,
quiet games
Baseball, softball, mixed volley ball, tennis
Joseph Lee Day—July 28

July 3l—-VOLLEY BALL CHAMPIONSHIPS (August 5)
Sand modeling and water carnivals
Quoit contests; Soap Ibubble contest

\VEEK 0F

 

 

 

August 7—QUALIFYING SWIMMING Mss'rs (August 12)
Baseball field day; Doll parades; Baby parades

August l4—C1'rY-W1DE SWIMMING CHAMPIONSHIPS
(August 19)
Home talent shows—singing, dancing, recitations,
musical instruments

 

August 21—SWIMMING EXHIBITIONS
Victory Garden Vegetable Exhibit
Baseball field day; Checkch contest

August 28—HANDCRAFT EXHIBITIONS
Freckles contest; Jackstones contest

A Realistic Postwar Plan

(Continued from page 86)

unit, dividing the city-into six sectional areas. locat-
ing and spotting all the city properties which would
serve the neighborhoods in the years to come. The
local committees, giving their time freely, have
spent many days locating the properties and arous—
ing the interest of the public in the project. Thcir
joint efforts at spotting properties have resulted
in one master map and an over-all community plan
providing every neighborhood with city-owned
areas adapted to its needs to be set aside by law
now, before it is too late, as a park or playground.

Many people have had a part in Yonkers’ plan-
ning. All taking part contributed to a committee
fund and gave their time. The executive committee
met regularly once a week and frequently with the
City Council.

In keeping with the spirit of the planning. each
area is taking its traditional name. Instead of
giving the areas the name of a president or a
general, they are keeping the neighborhood names
by which they have been known for years, such as
St. Nicholas Oval, Park Hill, Sullivan's Oval, and

Fairview Gardens.

All this, happening as it has within a year's time
has meant hard work and quick action not only on
the part of private citizens but municipal depart-
ments. City engineers have made their contribu—
tions, and every city department has given assist-
ance. Members of the City Council have toured
with members of the committee different sections
of the city to insure proper locations. It has not
always been easy. In certain areas there has been
opposition, and difficulties have arisen. Commu-
nity interest and public opinion have overcome all
obstacles, and Yonkers can look forward to having
a system of parks and playgrounds adequate to
meet the needs of a growing community.

A Day in Pinneys Woods

(Continued from page 83)

When the suspense became too great, the proud
sergeant and his men who found the treasure first
led the whole army to the place in question.

Then came the general mess! Yes, the army
lincd up for watermelon, and what a mess! What
fun! After cleaning up, the flag was lowered and
everybody hiked down the hill singing songs.

You, too, can make your playground another
Pinneys Woods.

RECREATION

NOW OFF THE PRESS! 111

Now Off the Press!

[IE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIA‘HON has
Thad many requests for suggestions for patriotic
holiday programs. “Freedom Means All of Us
Everywhere,” which is now available from the
Association in mimeographed form, offers a pa-
triotic program which can be set up very simply
and may be easily adapted to [it the needs of the
individual community. If desired, it can be made
into a longer, more elaborate production by using
costumes and adding tableaux at obvious points in
the script.

Copies of “Freedom Means All of Us Every-
where” may be secured from the National Recrea-
tion Association at 15 cents each. (MP 361)

The Whole Town

(Continued from page 73)

gram? \Vhy shouldn't they cooperatively plan a
Halloween Carnival to be conducted by the High
School Student Council for children of all ages in
the community? In days of limited supervision and
facilities, it is of utmost importance that we analyze
our situations and be sure that we are taking ad-
vantage of every available opportunity. As a means
of discovering leadership needs, facilities, and pro-
grams in the city of Tallahassee, college students
are being used to carry on a survey of these par-
ticular items. We are not only utilizing available
leadership but will be able to improve our pro-
gram through discovering what is available in
leadership and facilities and how recreation pro-
grams are meeting recognized local needs.

Recreation directors, we must serve as coordi-
nators! We must be alert to all recreation activi-
ties conducted in our communities. We must not
run in competition to the programs being carried
on by private and semi-private agencies but must
learn what they are doing, cooperate with them,
and supplement their programs so that all recrea-
_ tional needs in our communities may be met.

Good Home, Back Home

(ontiuued from page 72)

. physical exercise or else there will be a let-down in
the physical training the men have received in
Army and Navy life. New publicity means must
be found so that every man may have a chance to
know about the recreation facilities—From 23rd

Annual Report 1944, Playground Board, Oak
Park, Illinois. '

MAY 1945

 

0N THE PLAYGROUND
IN nun SHthS

At Camps . . . In Club Work
Junior ARTS 81 ACTIVITIES

    
   
  
     
   
 
     
         
       
   
  

  

Supplies things to do—to make—craft
projects suitable for boys and girls from
preschool groups through the junior-
high-school level.

  

When rainy days keep children from
playing out of doors, the ideal activities
are those which develop creative talents,
give a sense of accomplishment, and open

Modeling,

sketching, scrapbooks, weaving, gesso

new avenues of thought.
work, puppeteering, woodworking ——
these are only a few of the subjects which

are treated in Junior ARTS 81 ACTIVITIES.

You will find Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES
a valuable aid in organizing craft classes
and in leading young people’s groups.

 
   
   
   
    
   
     
         
 

FREE: Send for free information.

100 in coin brings you a sample copy.

  

$3 .00 per year

(10 consecutive issues
starting with current issue).

Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

Dept. R

4616 N. CLARK ST. CHICAGO 40, ILL.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

How to Draw .and Paint

By G. Richardson Brigham. Moeller Publications, Oak
Park, Illinois. $3.98.

MR. BEIGHAM, accustomed to training art students at
summer and winter schools in Maine and Florida,
has incorporated some of his instruction methods in a
book which stresses the “new vision training” method in
charcoal, oil and water color. The author discusses per-
spective and composition and gives suggestions for self-
criticism.

To Keep Them Safe

Prepared and designed by Ryllis Alexander Goslin.
W'omen's Division, National Safety Council, 800
Chrysler Building, New York. $.50.

THE BOOKLET, prepared primarily for women, gives
'factual data on the accident rate, patterns for organ-

izing Sa fcty Committees on state and local levels, material

for club meetings on safety, and data on publicizing the
safety message.

The Stay-at-Home Book

By Cappy Dick. Greenberg, Publisher, New York. $2.00.

HERE Is A TREASURE HOUSE of things to do and make

for boys and girls from six to fourteen. Instructions
are clear; illustrations easy to follow; materials inex-
pensive or waste. The Stay-at-Home Book will 'be a valu-
able addition to the library of any place where children

gather.

Wildwood Wisdom

By Ellsworth Jaeger. The Macmillan Company, New

York. $2.95.

ELLSWORTH JAEGER is Curator of Education at the
Buffalo Museum of Science. The book of nature
wisdom which he has written and illustrated is testimony
to his ability in that part of science that we think of as
nature lore. The book is also a minc of information for
campers, nature leaders, and all other people whose voca—
tions or avocations lead them into the woods.

Open Letter to My Newly
BHnded Fdend

By Joseph F. Clunk. U. S. Office of Education, Wash-
ington. $.10.

H LAY BLINDNESS as a game, not as a calamity” is the

advice of the author of this pamphlet. He himself
has demonstrated successfully the soundness of his prin-
ciplcs because he himself has 1been making a success with
blindness for twenty-live years. His words directed to his
“newly blinded friends" are, in effect, a Setting out of the
rules of the game he uhids them play.

112

 

Anniversaries and Holidays

By Mary E. Hazeltinc. American Library Association,
Chicago. $6.00.

READERS who are already familiar with the 1928 version

of Anniversaries and Holidays will welcome this
revised and enlarged edition. Others will find the volume
a mine of information about each day in the year, about
the people and events that have made the day important,
about customs, traditions, folklore, ceremonials that sur-
round it wit-h interest. Here is a reference work of
scholarship without pedantry and thoroughness without
tedium. Not least important of its features are the lists
of books about holidays, special days, seasons, pe0ple
referred to in the calendar proper. Recommended as a
valuable reference.

Official I945 Track and Field Guide

A. S. Barnes and Cornpany, New York. $.50.

TIIE 1945 TRACK AND FIELD GUIDE, recent addition to
the series numbers of which are issued periodically by

A. S. Barnes and Company, is now ready.

'Social Work Year Book I945

Russell H. Kurtz, Editor.
New York. $3.25.

1113 EIGHTH ISSUE of the Social l'l’ork Year Book is

now off the press. Of special interest to recreation
leaders everywhere is the article on “Recreation,” by
George D. Butler.

Russell Sage Foundation,

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

I IOWAEo BRAUCIIEE, President

JoIIN G. W'INANT First Vice-President

M RS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. II. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG Bsms, Boston, Mass.

Mas. ROBERT Wooos BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BnAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETI‘, Portland, Ore.

Ma‘s. AETHUE G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
Mas. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
RanET GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.

Mus. NORMAN liARRowea, Fitchburg‘, Mass.
Mns. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MES. CHAELES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
Mas. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAvus T. Kmav, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERV, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Aughsta. Me.

MES. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MES. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New YOrk, N.‘ Y.

FEEDERch M. WAEBUEG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
"STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

