The Recreation Worker

_RESPECTS THE INDIVIDUALITY of each person coming to the recreation center and
does not try to do anything to or for such person that he would not want

done to himself.

Tries to help each child and each person to find a chance to do what he himself will
recognize as meeting his individual need.

Always keeps in mind the desire of people to see and enjoy beauty.

Remembers that people want a chance to be helpful to others. to give volunteer ser—
vice—not only in the center but out in the neighborhood itself.

Tries to have the spirit that pervades the playground, the recreation center, the spirit
he would like to see pervade the whole world.

Makes sure each child and each person has a chance to initiate activities, to work
' together with others in solving the problems that arlse, to help make the recre-
ation center truly a place where cooperation prevails.

Remembers the satisfaction he himself has in acquiring and perfecting skill in doing a
few things well.

Remembers his own pleasure in nature trips, historical landmark trips, his own joy
in exploring and discovering.

Gives opportunity for continuous growth and development—the recreation center
above all else is a place for happy growth.

Keeps happy himself because he expects all who share the recreation center to find hap-
piness, and he remembers that people are often not conscious they are having a
good time until later as they look back.

Knows that a certain measure of outer light—heartedness. of absence of tension is
the more needed when the conditions of the world become most SQI‘IOUS if the
recreation worker is vmsely and effectively to give all that he can.

Understands that drama and music are needed now more than less.

That alertness. adaptability. creativeness. resourcefulness—every recreation worker
needs now.

The whole world will be a better place if each little corner has clean sport. a happy
culture. and a wealth of fine things that people know how to do well and
want with all their hearts to do. if always and everywhere the time is too short
to do all the things one wants to do. to think all the thoughts that are crowding
to come 1n.

Just what can this recreation center do, the recreation leader asks himself, to keep its
people from disillusionment and pessimism regarding life? How can the course
of life and comradeship in this corner be kept so strong that there is a will for
victorious living for all people everywhere?

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

AUGUST I945

 

225

RECREATION

 

Write 'Em and Reap: The Saga of Maud

0m; OUT of the library,
Maud. Life can be beau-
tiful.

Once there was an unfortu-
nate lady named Maud who was a group worker
in a settlement house. She had a group of chil-
dren who liked to hear stories, and a group who
wanted to sing and one who wanted to act. 50,
poor Maud spent hours and hours in the library
looking for stories and songs and plays. Sooner
or later she would find them and tell or teach them
to the children until the children were tired of
them and then she would have to go back to the
library and look for some more. Poor Maud. They
say that when she died her last words were, “Let
the streets of Heaven be paved
with Program Material!”

\Vell, maybe Maud found the
streets of the golden city paved
with the stuff ; but the chances
are that she found more of it
paving the road to the other
place—along with the good in-
tentions. Readymade material,
of course, is sometimes indis—
pensible and often valuable as ,
a “come-on,” but by itself it can do only a halfway,
artificial job. The real body of a sincere, creative
program lies in the people themselves who need it-—-
no matter what age those people are. They can
compose their own songs—then sing them; tell
their own stories and write their own plays.

From “Maud’s” point of view, the actual time
it takes for each person in the group to contribute
an idea or a sentence or a few bars of a tune is the
most wonderful program filler she can ask for.
True, it has its danger points and they'll be men-
tioned later, but it can be the vital kind of activity
that keeps a group absorbed and teaches coopera—
tion sans the usual sermons on the subject.

From a beginning group’s point of view, the
whole idea is new and exciting. For the first time
many of them find that what they think matters.
and is worth writing down. They discover that
writing is not an esoteric art depending on magic,
divine inspiration, or Rule 12 on page 216 of the
grammar book.

It Won’t Hurt a Bit—Honest]

Most of the children and adults whom we meet 7

AUGUST 1945

By DORIS FALK
Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association
New Yorlt City

Do you find it harder and harder to
find good published materials for pro-
grams of various kinds? A solution
which is also a clarion call for lead-
ers of dramatic and musical activities
to stimulate the normal creative abili-
ties ot children is found in the Saga
of Maud. Read it and leap—to a
whole new world of exciting programs!

in our settlement and camp
work are fugitives from pen
and paper. And they’re not the
only ones. “Maud” herself,
may have a bad attack of butterflies at the idea of
actually making up and writing down a usable
story or song or play. But all she needs is a fair
degree of literacy and some imagination—and she
can do without the literacy if necessary.

In the beginning, however, with a raw group,

there seems to be one proviso without which the

“creative writing” (poor overworked phrase) idea
is almost sure to flop. The necessity for the material
to be provided by writing must be so obvious that
the group is completely intent on accomplishing the
end and does not have time to
brood over the problems of
writing. If our friend “Maud”
is going to come blithely trip-
ping into a meeting armed with
paper and pencil, and say
gaily, “Well, folks, let’s do
some creative writing,” you
know what answer she’ll get.
The “littul ones” or whoever
they are will indulge in self-
expression without benefit of pen and ink. ’

To be specific, one group with which this par-
ticular “Maud” has worked started its discussion
with the suggestion by one of the girls that they
give a play. Here are some of the questions that
the group asked itself and answered.

Q. What sort of audience will we have?

A. Largely younger children.

Q. What kind of play do they like?

A. One with plenty of color and action.

Q. How much time do we have before we want
to present it? '

A. Not enough time to memorize parts.

Q. What sort of play would not require much
rehearsal?

A. (Varied answers) Pantomime, dramatized
ballads, a puppet play or shadowgraph.

Decision: “Let’s do a puppet play. Then we’ll
have the fun of making the puppets.”

Q. What sort of story would fit puppets best?
A. A fairy story.

Q. Why not use one of the well-known ones?
Why not, indeed? No reason at all except that

227

228 lVRITE ’EM AND REAP: THE SAGA OF MAUD

Maud would like to see the group write their own.
In fact, at this point she is in a ticklish spot. It
happened that in the particular instance cited, all
she had to say was, “Well, it’ll be fun to see if we
can write one ourselves—then we’ll be sure to put
in everything the children want.” This group, of
course, was a rather naturally creative one——as
they all are if they have not been drugged by a
snperfiuity of readymade material.

The real secret with any kind of group is to
start them thinking about the play itself, rather
than whether or not they should write one. In the
instance of the puppet play, for example, further
discussion went something like this:

Q. What do most fairy stories have?

A. (From various members ——-all talking at
once) : A prince, a princess, a king, a witch, some
bad people, some good people.

QT“! hat usually happens? _

A. The bad people get the good people in trouble
and then the good people get out again and live
happily ever after.

Q. How many people is the main part of the
story usually about?

A. One or two of the good ones.

And so forth. They finally settled that the
heroine should be a fairy princess who was bored
with fairyland and wanted to become mortal. A
witch granted her wish by betrothing her to a
mortal prince who persecuted her no end, and
from whom she was finally rescued by the fairy
prince who had been her suitor in fairyland. Actu-
ally, the group had composed so quickly and un-
consciously that any_talk of thepI
difficulties of composition would
have been superfluous. They even
decided later to add songs and
make the play an operetta. This
was a pretty ambitious undertaking
for the first time, and we should
pause here for station identification.

So Far, So Good, But . . .

There are certain danger sig-
nals to be watched for, especially
with groups writing for the first
time. (If you’ve heard these, try
and stop me.)

I. Don’t be too ambitious at the
beginning. That word of warning
is for you, not your group. They
are easily discouraged and will find
enough difficulties without having

you tell them point blank. However, if their plans
are so highfiown that you must discourage at the
beginning do it subtly and, of course, with some
suggestion to take the place of any criticism. First
compositions should be short and simple—a long
project may be fatal. As soon as the writing be—
comes drudgery, no matter how good it is for the
writers’ souls (patience and all that), it is dead
as good material.

2. Don't seek for perfection in form—~even if
you think you know what perfection is. Remember
that you are helping people learn to like to write,
not teaching them. how to write. This does not
mean. of course, to sail blindly by aii opportunity
to teach painlessly when a definite question arises ;
it is only a warning against an over-emphasis on
technique—the surest killjoy in any creative pro-
gram.

Here the point comes up, “How much should
the leader (lo herself? When should she step in
and inject an idea of her own?” The answer to
that is the same here as in any other kind of group
work. If your program is trembling on the edge
of boredom or is about to disintegrate for any
other reason, and you have faith in its value, then
you must step in and save it. And not too obvi-
ously, either.

In the example of the puppet play, what actually
happened was this: The group at its meetings

I

A' youngster at Lawrence, Kansas,
tells a story —- with gestures!

 

RECREATION

WRITE ’EM AND REAP: THE SAGA OF MAUI) 229

(once a week with a few extras) plotted the play
scene by scene and began work on some of the
dialogue. They did several speeches for each char-
acter. (Typical conversation: “would a mean old
witch talk like that? Nah, listen—she'd say it. this
way . . J") They wrote the words to one of the
songs (a whole meeting for this) and then started
work on the puppets themselves. Here, frankly.
the leader. with help from a few individuals. took
over some of the writing. She dubbed in the rest
of the dialogue and the words to some of the songs
—-~then presented this material to the group for
criticism. They tore it to pieces enthusiastically,
and reworded it in its final draft.

This much leader participation may sound con-
tradictory to the whole idea of having the group
do it themselves BUT, and pardon my capitals, the
result was that as soon as the puppet operetta had
been presented several times and the puppets laid
neatly away in their little boxes. the whole group
came to the leader and said, “Now we want to
write a play that we can be in ourselves and learn
the parts by heart.” And. by golly, they did! This
time they rewrote every jot and tittle of it them-
selves. The characters were girls their own age,
so that their own ordinary language was as per-
fect dialogue as ever playwright could conjure up.
(Example: “Y'know that Linda thinks she's
everythino‘. now that she solved that crime, you
k1iow.”) '

3. Don't waste your time trying to figure out a
cut—and—dried, foolproof method of composition.
There not only ain’t no such animal, but it’s a
good thing for the vitality of your writing program
that there ain't. Below are a few ways that have
worked. and some of the results they produced,
but these are only guides, not models.

Plays. Acting things out is such a widespread
weakness of the human race that plays seem to be
the most natural beginning material for group
writing. \Ve have already talked about most of the
processes used in writing the puppet play. When
the same girls were working on the dialogue. plot-
ting, and staging of their next play the process
included some experimentation. Sometimes they
acted a scene first, before writing it down, to see
if it had good possibilities. When they were stuck
for dialogue, different girls would take the part.
Each one interpreted it in her own language, and
the group decided which speeches were the most
appropriate. Often the girls’ ideas included too
frequent changes of scenery. \Vheii 'they- experi—

AUGUST 1945

mented. the difficulty became obvious and settings
were reduced and simplified.

In originating characters, they used types famil—
iar to them-—-—-the boy-crazy girl, the bookworm, the
little “picked—on" one, the strict schoolteacher, and
the “sweet” schoolteacher. Characters were cast
by a reading. with the group vote determining the
final casting. i

Poems and Songs. When summer comes and we
move a large part of our program out of doors, the
muse will galavant through our groups—if we get
out of the way, and give the old girl a word of
encouragement now and then. \Vhen children sit
on a hillside and simply list what they see. the result
is often poetry. Real poetry (as opposed to verse
written for a purpose and requiring some particu-
lar form) is. of course, individual expression rather
than group activity. but it is something that every
member of the group can work at. Beware, how-
ever. the over-earnest and worshipful attitude to-
ward it. Young children are notoriously facetious
——and why not? Remember the fatal phrase. “Ah,
dis is too much like school 1” The following cryptic
commentary was made by one Catherine C., a
nine year old settlement member:

Trees are beautiful

And are very nice

But you can have

All your trees

If there’s a nest full of has.

The following is a serious little verse by a boy of
twelve. Remember these are ordinary New York
City kids who don’t know a dactyl from a tro'chee
and don't give a you know what:

What shines out as bright as a full moon?
The wind about you is cold and crisp;

The sky is a bright glossy glow

The high mountains far away

Seem to say, “This is our night.”

1When somebody in the group says, “Let’s make
up a song.” then comes your chance for group
versifying. If the song is to have original music,
it is usually necessary to write the words first, but,
of course. the processes of composition in verse are
just as varied and flexible as they are in' prose.
Some people begin first with, “So you want to
write a hiking song. \Vell. what kind of beat would
it have i’” Then the group starts thinking about the
rhythm—probably everybody gets up and hikes
around the table just to see how it feels. Indian
songs are frequently based on a drumbeat, cowboy
songs on the rhythm of horses’ hoofs, songs about

(Co'n'tfmrrd on page 2.7 9)

Theater School for Children

L‘RING TIIF. smuxe and Summer of 1940 the
D groundwork was laid for the formation of

the Community Children's Theater. a project
with two-fold purpose of providing wholesome en-
tertainment for the children of Roanoke, Virginia,
and of developing local talent in the city. The
theater was to be directed by representatives of
civic organizations, of the schools, and of the Rec-
reation Department.

Before the founding of the theater only two
groups in Roanoke were active in the held of chil-
dren’s entertainment. The A.A.U.\\". brought to
the city professional Clare Tree Major perform-
ances, and the Junior League, through its chil—
dren’s theater, provided amateur plays with the
members of the League as actors, sometimes vary-

ing its repertoire with puppet shows or profes-
sional performances.

In the fall of 1939 the League initiated a radio
program for children, drawing the actors and
actresses from the public schools. The response to
the call for tryouts was tremendous and the talent
was so outstanding that the idea began to form
in the mind of the chairman of the League theater
group that this talent might be utilized to form a
new type of theater movement.

For some years the drama director for the local
senior high schOol had been training a small group
of children in creative dramatics, and it seemed
logical that the class might form the nucleus of the
new theater. Therefore, in the spring of 1940, as
an experiment, the Junior League committee

In Roanoke the audience gets training in theater participation

 

230

Courtesy Park Commission, Memphis, Tenn.

RECREATION

THEATER SCHOOL FOR CHILDREN 231

agreed to produce and the
drama director to direct The’
Ghost of Mr. Penny. The
play was successful; the
feasibility of the idea was
demonstrated; and plans
were formed for the begin-
ning of the community chil-
dren’s theater project.

During the following summer the chairman of
the League group approached the civic clubs, the
women’s organizations, and the schools. The re-
sponse was unanimous and by the fall of 1940 a
board of directors had been appointed consisting
of representatives of the above groups, bylaws had
been written. officers elected, a director retained,
and the school was ready to open.

In order to make ‘the undertaking self-support- '-

ing a fee was charged for tuition to cover the
expenses of the school. However, in order that no
talent'iad child should bc eliminated because of in—
ability to pay the tuition. a sum was provided by
the Junior Lcagnc in the form of scholarships for
a limited number. All children were to be selected
on the basis of a talent test supervised by members
of the board. and the school was limited to thirty
children. Over eighty children tried out the first
year, and so much talent was evident that the
limit was raised to forty.

During the first year three plays were produccd,
Snow White being the opening performance. The
Sponsoring organizations furnished scene painters,
costumers, and technicians, and all these activities
were open to the city at large. From the start the
theater was truly a community project.

In 1941 tuitions were reduced and admission to
the plays was lowered to ten cents. This was pos-
sible because of the growing attendance at per-
formances which enabled the non—profit organiza—
tion to meet its budget at the reduced figure. The
growth of thc school has made it necessary to add
a part-time director to the staff.

In the past season emphasis has been placed not
only on the quality of production, but also on the
quality of audience participation. and real stress
has been put on training young Roanokers in what
makes for good audience behavior and enjoyment.
The directors of the theater feel that not only the
actors and actresses but also the children in front
of the footlights belong to the Community Chil-
dren’s Theater.

The theater activities begin a weck or...so_ after
the opening of school. The public relations chair”-

..
1

AUGUST 1945

The story of Roanoke, Virginia's theater
school for children was compiled by Mary
Thurman Pyle for the Virginia Drama
News from newspaper reports and a letter
from Mrs. Thomas Wirsing, Jr., President of
the Children's Theater of Roanoke. The ar-
ticle is reprinted from the Virginia Drama
News for May l5I I945, by permission.

man, who is librarian for all
the schools in the city, an-
nounces tryouts in all the
grammar and junior high
schools. and the first few
days after the schools open
are devoted to interesting
the children in trying out
for the theater school. The county grade schools
are also approached, and there have been several
pupils from the neighboring town of Salem. In
1944 about ninety—three children tried out. Fifty
were chosen from this' group to make up the
school. The ages range from eight to fourtecn and
the group is divided according to age into three
classes. each of which meets once a week for in—
struction in creative dramatics, make-up, and all
the phascs of play production that can be given in
a classroom.

At the first meeting of the theater school each
year a scholarship is awarded to the child who has
done the most outstanding work during the pre-
ceding years of membership in the school.

The Roanoke City School Board is very much
interested in the project. Clas'ses are held in the
afternoons in the high school dramatics classroom.
In 1944-45, plays were given in the high school
auditorium because the very high union rates to
stage hands in a public theater necessitated cutting
down excessively on costumes and sets for the

plays. Rchearsals were also held in the high school
auditorium.

Generally, the Children’s Theater puts on three
plays a year. In 1944-45, however, because of the
late Opening of the schools, it was decided to
forego the fall play so that the opening pcrform-
ance was on January 31. At that time the produc-
tion was Charlotte Chorpenning's Grandmother
Slyboots, which is a rather streamlined version of
Little Red Riding Hood, featuring two wolves.
There were three performances, two for white chil-
dren and one for Negro children. Grandmother
Sfyhoots has only seven characters, so, as far as
possible the director trained two casts and each
had a chance to appear before the public. The
Spring play, Aladdin and the lVonderful Lamp,
had a large cast and the whole school took part in it.

The Board of Directors of the Children’s Thea-
ter is made up of representatives from nearly all
the civic groups in the city and also from the
School Board, the Board of Principals and the
Recreation Department. The superintendent of

(Continued on page 273)

On the playgrounds

FOR saves-n. YEARS Chil- By MARGARET CREMEN MARTIN Theatre, making about hf-

dren’s Theatre of Port—

land, Maine, has been trying to plan some
method of trouping plays to the city’s playgrounds
in summertime. In August, 1943, the Park Com—
mission and Children's Theatre got together. The
Commission offered us a large trailer which they
had stored in the city's garage and asked us to
work with the children and have them put on their
own plays, but we realized we were not trained to
lead youngsters in such a program. Finally, a plan
was evolved in which Children’s Theatre would
present the plays, and the playground leaders could
use them as a starting point for the children's own
work.

In February we had a visit from Miss Virginia
Comer. A.J.L.A. Consultant on Community Arts,
and our plans really took a stride forward. Our
designer, Mrs. Raymond Jensen, sat down with
Miss Comer, and they designed a practical set to
mount on a trailer. we were all gr0ping in the
dark because none of us had had any experience
with a stage on a trailer. Would we have to have
some form of artificial lighting? Should the top
be covered with canvas? ‘We did finally eliminate
lighting as too expensive but we put a cover over
the top. But I’m getting ahead of my story.

\V e knew a professional designer cost too much
so Mrs. Jensen drew the complete design, and we
got a contractor to build the whole theatre. It is
made in sections, and travels flat on the floor of the
trailer between performances. \Vhen the theatre
is set up, the stage area is 15’9" x 10'. There is an
apron that opens down in front to give us more
acting space. At the sides are two projecting wings
which give us dressing rooms and a place for the
properties. we even have a makeup shelf in one
of the dressing rooms. The stage is so small that
it is necessary to use a minimum of scenery with a
maximum of effectiveness.

I

\Vith the aid of several high school dramatics
teachers we obtained lists of boys and girls who
might be interested in working with us and found
twelve enthusiasts who have, incidentally, con-
tinued to maintain their enthusiasm even in the
face of unforeseen difficulties. \Ve augmented this

supply of labor with older 'membetsof Children’s.

232

teen workers in all. Our
loyal members who are tied down by other duties
rallied round to make stage curtains and costumes.

we planned a schedule of two plays, Jack and
the Beanstatk, and Littte Black Samba. Each runs
about an hour. Our schedule included playgrounds
in the city of Portland. South Portland, and in the
Federal Housing projects in the whole Greater
Portland area. Every Tuesday and Friday through-
out the summer we played to spellbound young
audiences, twenty performances in all. There were
no admission charges, but the children were told
that if they would like to give their pennies and
itickels so that there might be more performances
for other children, we would appreciate their con-
tributions. Many brought their money to plzice in
a small bowl on stage after the performance.

There were problems, of course, that we hadn’t
counted on. \Ve had unusually hot weather, and
you only have to imagine yourself as half of But-
tercup. the cow, in Jack and the Beat-Istatk—no
matter which half—it was equally uncomfortable!
Or you might be one of the tigers in Littte Blade
Samba in a costume that reminds you of your
child’s Doctor Dentons. And then there was our
uninvited audience, the dogs. They evidenced an
intense interest in our stage animals, vocally and
otherwise. between dog fights. But it's been fun.

The excellent cooperation of the Industrial USO
and the recreation departments in Portland and
South Portlaitd has made it possible for us to reach
many more youngsters than we can play to during
our winter schedule. Apparently, the housing
projects liked our last year's production of Kersti
and St. Nirhotas before Christmas because they
welcomed us back with open arms this summer. i

The Trailer Theatre has stimulated a lively com—
munity interest. Even the fire department lent us
a tarpaulin to protect the theatre in transit. Every—
one who has worked on the project has contributed
such a tremendous enthusiasm that it couldn’t have
helped but be a real success. we hope next year
to be able to carry out a similar summer program,
and we expect to make great strides with this
year's experience behind us.

———Reprinted by permission from Junior League Magazine,
OCldbt’f' 

RECREATION

Drama from the Ground Up

a multitude of sins. For they stem from the

Greek word meaning to do or to art. Any
doer, therefore, if you want to be precise, can be a
dramatist. To all intents and purposes, however,
drama in the language of today; connotes a quite
particular kind of doing. Drama today implies act-
ing out a situation—from real or imagined life—
whose nature is conflict. Charades are not drama.
I’ageants are not ipso facto drama, though they
may have dramatic sequences. Skits and blackouts,
songs and dances are not usually drama, though
sometimes they. too, have dramatic moments.
Goldilocks alone in the bear’s house, sitting in
chairs. tasting porridge, sleeping in beds is not
drama. Nor are the bears until they find her. But
when Goldilocks and the bears meet with the re-
sulting action—Goldilocks running away by way
of the nearest window—there is drama.

D RAMA AND DRA MATICS can, by derivation, cover

All this. which may seem vague and academic
theorizing, has a point. There are very, very few
good plays for children of grade school age. The
number of such plays that are royalty free or in-
expensive to produce is even fewer. Consequently
on many playgrounds, in many community centers
all kinds of things are called drama that have very
few real dramatic values.

And yet, the world—especially the child's world,
real or imagined—is brimful and overflowing with
highly dramatic material waiting to be transferred
to a “stage.” It is not, to be sure, printed in a
book complete with directions for staging and
business. It has, first of all, to be perceived and
then it has to be caught and held in a net of words
until it can be transmuted into a play by the mem-
bers of the group.

This talk about perceiving and netting and trans- .

muting is close to dangerous ground. It is coming
perilously near to the realm of creative dramatics.
If you want to start a really select argument—not
one of those mild-mannered, namby-pamby, polite-
tea-party discussions, but a real up-and-at-‘em,
“tearin’ down” row—get together a group of chil-
dren’s theater enthusiasts, and just casually, drop
into the conversation the words creative dramatics.
Then sit back—we” back—and watch the fur fly!
The chances are that the arguers, like the gingham
dog and calico cat, will eat each other up.

AUGUST 1945

In order to avoid any such fight let us call this
process of play fabricating simple play making.
(Any play making should be creative and it should

 be dramatic, but when the two words come to-

gether they undergo some kind of sea change that
packs them with dynamite!)

\Vhy bother with all this —— under whatever
name? What values will accrue to the youngsters
involved in a program of dramatics from the
ground up? They will have fun, for one thing.
And, “by means of actual, first-hand experience
along the lines of . . . natural interests . . . capacity
for creative self—expression should be developed;
and at the same time (the child) should grow in
tolerant under'standing of self and society.” Lo ! the
“whole child” is developing before your very eyes!
The youngsters will, in a word, get the full value
of a drama program and, in addition, they will
profit from creating the play from the very begin-
ning. In addition, both the child and the director
will be freed in a measure from the demands for
scenery and costume that are indicated in very
nearly all of the printed plays.

Process

The procedure for this kind of dramatic venture
has been tested over a period of years in many
places. It varies in detail but its main outlines are
clear. It presupposes a leader with an imagination
that stimulates the like quality lying very near the
surface in all children. And it presupposes the
willingness (and the ability) to spend time in giv-
ing form to the “writing” of the children without
destroying its originality or its naturalness. Here
is a description of play-creation in action as it
occurred in one school.

The group was made up of boys and girls from
the fourth and fifth grades. They met for an hour
once a week (which, incidentally, was not consid-
ered often enough by the teacher.) The group had
chosen for Ddramatization episodes from The Jungle
Boole. The first few meetings of the class were
devoted to a thorough discussion, first of the whole
book, then of the episodes which were to be used,
the coming of Mowgli, the scene at the Council
Rock when Mowgli became a member of the Pack,
the death of Sherkan. Gradually during these dis:
cussions the teacher began to draw from the chil-

233

234 DRAMA FROM THE GROUND UP

dren their ideas of characterization. They began
to see the animals as people, with human character-
istics. ( )ne small girl—she couldn’t have been more
than eight—described the Jackal as “a street waif
without home or parents.”

\Yheu it was clear that each child was thoroughly
familiar with the book, the group was broken up

into small units and each unit was given bits of

the story to “act out.” They'made a stage on the
fiat floor by using a large, low platform, an ir-
regular ramped platform, and three or four cubes
which measured about four feet to a side and had
one side open. For these first improvisations they
were given a few minutes to plan their action and
any dialogue they wanted to use. Dialogue was not
imperative at first. Such as was used at this stage
was sketchy to say the least. But the stage pictures,
the movement of the individual animals, the gen-
eral plan of action were clear and strong from the
beginning. Nor was there any lack of character-
ization in the pantomime.

The third preliminary stage came when words
began to fiow with the movement. The language,
the images were vivid and exciting. Kipling was
left behind in the ferment that brewed in the minds
of the boys and girls. One child, speaking of the
speed of movement of one of the animals said, “He
ate up the ground like fire.”

As the play took shape the teacher wove the
words and the movement which the children had
made into a unified script. She criticized here, dis—
cussed there. Perhaps the success of the venture
was due in large measure to her habit of leading
the children to recognize the motivation of each
gesture, each stage cross, each shift of position.
The careful analysis, brought about through dis—
Cttssion with the youngsters, established clearly
the reasonable sequences of movement and thought.
The whole business of play building was a process
of integrating fact and fancy, mind and emotion.
Tlere was nothing slipshod about the thing that
was being done. Dramatically it was sound. It
was exciting to do, and incidentally, to watch !

F rom the first there was an understanding that
this was community activity carried on for the
sake of the thing itself. \Vliether the play was to
be “produced,” with all- the trappings, for an audi-
ence was not a point to 'be considered. If the
question came up at all it was dismissed as a
matter for the future. If the result were good
enough perhaps it might warrant a formal produc-
tion. That was'a byproduct of the whole project,
not the purpose or the taken—for-granted en,d,._, ,_

Techniques

-\s a matter of record many plays begun in just
such an “informal” manner, created from scratch
by the students, have been produced in the school
in question. In the course of many seasons they
have worked out a production technique designed
to effect a maximum standard of excellence with a
minimum of expense and of aimless effort. Per-
haps a quick sketch of the materials that have been
developed might be of interest to others.

There is, in the first place, no real theater. The
“stage” is one side or one end of an ordinary room
——a large room, to be sure, but one never designed
to stage a show. The “sets” are the platforms and
ramps and cubes mentioned above. They are highly
functional pieces, made {Gr Flexibility of playing
space, for different acting levels, for suggesting
rather than depicting a scene. They can be set up
in endless combinations for interest and variety.
They are background for the play, a setting rather
than a four dc force of scene designing.

Lights are homemade from cans and boards.
They are carefully made, wired by an electrician
who knows his business. They are light in weight
and safe. Lights are planned primarily to illumi-
nate actors and acting areas. Imaginative use of
color mediums, and a Hexible light plot make it
possible for the same equipment to contribute to
the mood of the play.

Costuming, too, is planned with a long view.
Unbleached muslin and canton flannel, dyes and
paints, plus imagination, take the place of expen-
sive fabrics. The lesson of rough and generous
seams has long since been learned. The costumes
are designed to be used over and over again, to be
combined one with another for different periods
and for different characterizations. For the rare
occasions when rich fabrics are required, gifts from
the school's patrons of discarded finery are en—
couraged. .

Since animals and strange creatures such as
giants and ogres and their ilk loom large in the
child's world and hence in his theater, masks of
some kind-are important properties of the play.
The molded, half-mask has many drawbacks——
not least among them the difficulty the child actor
has in keeping it in place during the often strenu-
ous business of playing. This problem has been
solved inexpensively and effectively by using rolls
of corrugated'paper for masks which cover the
whole head and fit into a collar around the neck.
The mask face'is .mnch bigger than the child's

(Continued on. page 278)

RECREATION

- _ -A“ _‘-_A-_—_- 4

Toward a Community Theater:

A Long-Range View

osr COMMUNITY THEATER enthusiasts will
M tell you that the game is—oh, but definitely
-——-worth the candle. “Theater” gets under
the skin and into the blood. Once contracted. the
disease is just about impossible to get rid of! But
even the most confirmed devotee of the muse of
theater will admit, if pressed hard enough. that
ALL IS NOT SMOOTH SAILING.

In normal times, at any rate, casting a show is
fairly easy. Nearly everybody will “take a crack"
at acting. Scratch a human being and in nine cases
out of ten you will find a would-be actor. Un-
fortunately, there's more to putting on a play than
reading the lines and going through the business
indicated in the script. If the show is to go on in
the best stage tradition it must be mounted. The
stage must be set and lighted. The actors must be
costumed and made up and given the necessary
props. The house must be swept and garnished.
The audience must be sold tickets and ushered to
their proper seats. Bills must be paid and records
must be kept. These are the things that nobody
wants to do because they seem dull and stupid
chores with no hint of the glamor and the applause
that belong to the lucky few who are chosen to
tread the boards. Only the initiate, knowing the
importance of these things in the scheme of the
play, knowing, too, the satisfaction that comes
from designing a fitting set and
building it for $6.87—only these
knowing ones come forward
eagerly to “do the dirty work."
In many communities where thea—
ters for adults are established this
handful of willing crew members
are overworked year in and year
out until they drop in their tracks
from sheer exhaustion, or give the
whole thing up in despair.

Aware of all this, but aware.
on the other hand, that drama is
an important part of recreation
the leaders of the Recreation De-
partment in Austin, Texas, have
done Some long—range planning
for a well-organized, city-wide

AUGUST 1945

drama program. Austin began with its children.
In 1943 the Recreation Department set on foot a
program of dramatics for children which looked
forward to a Children's Theater as the first stop
along the road to community dramatics.

Experiment

The plan called for classes in dramatics to be
held at the Austin Athletic Club. By early fall a
director whose training, background, and person-
ality were right for work with children in the
theater had been found, and the first class of
youngsters from nine to fourteen years of age had
been started. Enthusiasm ran high, and in mid-
winter a' second class for the six to eight age group
was added. Throughout the fall and winter of
1943 and 1944 the boys and girls worked at learn-
ing the arts and skills of the theater. On May 20,
1944. three plays—cast in tryouts and thoroughly
and carefully rehearsed and mounted—were pre-
sented. The S.R.O. sign was out that day. The
audience was delighted, the actors and crew mem-
bers bubbling over with excitement. and an experi—
ment had proven itself a worthwhile program.

At the end of that first season the Recreation
Department felt that an interest in dramatics for
children was on the rise in Austin. It was time to
set up a permanent_ organization to be known as

 

*-—.— 1

Lourjgty Recreation Commissz'ois, Long Beach, Calif.

235

236 'I'Oll’ARD A COMMUNITY THEATER : A LONG-RANGE VIEW

The Children's Theater  .

of the Recreation Depart-
incnt.

During the period of
experimenting children-
had worked on all pro-
duction crews. They all
had stated in no uncer-
tain terms that they
wanted to keep on linding
out things about drama.
so from these youngsters
who had been the pro-
gram’s guinea pigs were
drawn the charter mem-
bers of the new theater.

Playground Program

The organization of
the permanent project was
finished as the summer
playground season was
about to begin. The mem-
bers of the Recreation
Department saw a golden
opportunity to dispose of
two birds with the usual
economy of stones. The
drama instructor was
added to the playground
staff. Her snnnner job
was to raise the standard
of playground dramatics
(“A consummation,”
thought Austin. “de—
voutly to be wished!")
and train recruits for the newly established Chil—
dren’s Theater. Accordingly each playground di-
rector set np a drama group and every week the
drama Specialist visited each group and gave spe-
cial direction to the play in progress. Every Sat-
urday morning a workshOp for the youngsters
especially interested in the theater was held at a
hall equipped with the necessary materials and
facilities. At this time, too, the forty charter mem-
bers of the Children’s Theater held their meetings.
The summer theater workshop was a prerequisite
for all who aSpired to membership in the perma-
nent group. At the end of the summer all “work-
shoppers" were invited to join the Children's
Theater.

During that summer of 1944 the youngsters pre—
pared three plays which were taken to each play;

 

_  If. ~_. -
Courtesy Palo Alto Children’s Theater

 

ground for a community night program at least
once in the season. The outdoor stages and the
large audiences taught the actors a thing or “two

‘about projection and diction and gave light, sets,

make—up crews invaluable experience in their

crafts.

Organizing for Permanency

In September a picnic and swimming party
brought the end of the‘summer season to" a close
with a bang and prepared the way for the fall and
winter season. At that party the first permanent
offices were set up for the theater and a president,
vice-president, and secretary were elected. Man-
agers for props, costumes, lights, house, and pub-

(Continmd on page 277)
RECREATION

A pridelike Thing

mam: Is A FEELING abroad in the land—a feel-
Ting about freedom. about tolerance and under-

standing, an awareness that freedom is not
just a word, is not just a dream, is not a rare
jewel that belongs to the few. Here and there
people are beginning to realize that a Bill of Rights
carries with it a Bill of Obligations. The Phila-
delphia Plan, the Springneld Plan serve as straws
to point the winds direction. In Winston—Salem,
North Carolina, the community radio council plan-
ned—and carried through—~an interracial develop—
ment in local broadcasting. In many less spec—
tacular activities men and women are finding ways
to emphasize the fundamen-
tal likenesses of people, to
play down the superhcial
differences in race or creed
or color that separate man
from man.

Each community must fmd
its own leaven. Many have
discovered that the arts——
especially the arts of com-
munication -——- levelx-all bar-
riers, resolve misunderstand—
ings, correct traditional mis—
conceptions, break down
prejudices and intolerance. One such program.
developed by Miss Grace \Valker of the National
Recreation Association, has been used in four com-
munities which differ in size and location, but are
alike in their desire to create for themselves a
pridelike thing.

Procedure

In each case the local organization requested
from the National Recreation Association the help
of a trained drama specialist. Miss \Valker spent
three or four weeks in each community. She came
in “cold,” not knowing the town nor the people in
it. She brought with her a script, made up of
selections from well—known authors of the past and
the present, laced together with dramatic inter-
ludes, with music, with sound effects, with dance
and tableaux. She brought, too, the knowledge and
love of people and a belief that working together
on a dramatic production could bring mutual un~
derstanding to people of many creeds and races.

She and the staff of the organization that sought

AUGUST 1945

All over the country there are people who
are seeking ways to malce articulate .the
growing feeling that freedom is not just a
word. Many techniques have been used in
spreading the gospel of intercultural rela-
tions, and not least successful among them
have been the techniques of recreation.
Here is an account of one process which used
the communication arts woven together into
a dramatic performance as a means of em-
phasizing the likenesses of people. of play-
ing down the superficial differences of race
and creed and color and manner of living.

her help discussed the possibilities of the commu—
nity in the light of the script and the job that could
be done. Miss Walker then went out to interview
key people in the town, men and women whose
interests lay, to some extent at least, in the crea—
tive arts. To them she interpreted the program to
be produced—a program dedicated to “those who
love freedom for themselves and all men.” Among
the key men and women she found people who
would take the lead in producing the script—-a
director for the dances, a director for music and
for publicity, a business manager, a costume com-
mittee. If the community centered about a college
or university the heads of
college departments were
apt to work closely with the
people of the town and the
production staff, and college
students contributed with
townspeople to the program
as dancers, actors and musi-
cians.

From this point on the
community became its own
“program director.” Details
of publicizing the program,
of transportation and care
of children in the cast, of getting people to take
the parts, of a thousand and one other details, were
taken over by people of the town. The job became
the community’s. The drama specialist took her
place as director, as technician who molds the ele-
ments of the cast to high standards, recognizes in
the members of the cast potentialities of which
they themselves are unaware and brings these
potentialities to the surface.

jJeyond these 'details of organization the com-
nmnity developed a third section of the script. For
the prepared script is only two—thirds done, the
rest comes out of the experience of the community
and is expressed in the medium of the community’s
choice—-——in music, or dance, or theater of the living
newspaper type, or with a narrator and verse speak—
ing choir. This hnal third is woven into the script
where it will best fit to make the whole produc-
tion belong more completely to the community.

The script itself is intercultural in its implica—
tions. it is an eloquent statement of the develop—

(Continued on page 27])

237

London Celebrates V-E Day r

E WERE NEARLY exhausted by V-E Day.

From surrender in Italy, each day and often

each hour brought astounding news. We
clung to the radio, snatched up newspapers, all
work ceased, and everyone seemed out on the
street— expectant, excited, talkative, and unre-
served. V Day minus one rumors and reports from
Europe told us it was all but over. Flags came
out —— bunting, pennants, mostly hoarded from
Jubilee and Coronation time. Every street and
house was gay, folks stopping to admire and talk.
There was no fanfare of announcement, “Now it’s
over,” no sirens, no bells, but those who didn’t join
the milling, mad crowds in London proper gathered
at the town hall to hear Churchill and the Mayor’s
proclamation, then scattered to see the decorations,
later to mill about the pubs, stand' by the many
bonfires the children had made. Folks thronged
the street far into the night and Frances (upstairs)
and I hung over my gate to talk to our friends,
and then had a quick walk around to see the local
fires and the V lights on various houses. The wild
exhilaration of the week before had left folk a bit
sobered, and they had time to realize only half was

over. But to Eur0pe and to our folks who had

done so well at such a cost we drank our toasts.

In the next few days it seemed every street was
planning a Victory party for the children—~often
on the pavement. The poorer the street, the more
elaborate the party, the more gay the decorations.
I live on a corner and so am eligible for two
parties. One we’ve had, and how friendly it was
lasting from 3 P. M. to II P. M., with the evening
for grown-ups. And out of it is being born a
Christmas party for the same group, and a feeling
of friendliness and unity not even blitz days
achieved. Ranelagh Road party will be held June
12. It will be a bigger thing, as our road is much
longer, but should do much to unify the street-—
a very mixed one socially.

We had another party, too—a big neighborhood
one, given by a mother for her .
returned prisoner of war son—
five years in prison in Ger—
many but not one of the worst
ones. It makes a lump come in
the throat to see the banners
across the streets now—“Wel-
come Home, Ray,” or “John.”

238

"Are you as curious to know how V-E
Day went here as 1 am to know how
you felt and what you did 7" writes a
former recreation worker in the United
States. now married to an Englishman
and living in the outskirts of London.
Here are extracts from her letter tell-
ing how, London celebrated the day.

You know a prisoner is coming home—or someone
long overseas. Neighbors rush in and give bits of
fat and margarine or butter, or an egg to help
make a proper welcome. And as the big bombers
fly over we know more lads are being brought
home.

And now it’s over over here. It seems strangely
and richly quiet somehow—it’s almost tangible, as
if we’d been continuously with the sound and din
of battle in our ears. And suddenly it st0pped and
a pin-drop silence came. Little by little, things
come back to normal and yet they seem odd—like
weather reports on the radio, the change in radio
reports—less war, more news of other affairs. The
blackout curtains and fixtures are down, the mor-
rison shelters have gone; the living room is almost
bare and twice the size.

My husband is still in Italy. He was near
Venice when the end came. His demobolization
group number is 27, so he won’t be out of the
army this year. But there’s hope of leave before
then.‘ Now the war in Europe is over somehow the
waiting doesn’t seem so difficult. It can’t be over-
long and there is no longer cause for worry.

The rations have been cut in part, but that will
affect us very little. It’s lone people who feel the
pinch, somehow with four in the family rations
seem to spread out. And the more for Europe the
better. We really don’t know what privation is
here.

Now the fighting here is ended, we’ve begun
to get over the reaction, and we’re tumbled into a
general election. 80 preoccupied with war hap-

,penings and babies have I been that I haven’t the

dimmest idea whom to vote for or what. I’m sure
there are many like me, and the time is so short to
figure out things, the issues so complex and frought
with pr0paganda and prejudice. It’s worrying, for
now everyone should really know the situation, for
the Brave New World is in the making and a right
vote important. It’s all so confusing here and
abroad too. So many problems
are so hard to settle. San Fran-
cisco has been a bit of a dis-
appointment—but perhaps it’s
just as well issues came up to
show us how hard the road
ahead, that peace will have to

(Continqu on page 275)

RECREATION

f

Pulling Strings

ll AY WE COME back this
M afternoon and work? I
want to put my second

coat of shellac on.”

“May I take mine home and sand it so I can
shellac it tomorrow?”

“I need some purple velvet for my king. He’s
all ready for his clothes, but I don’t know how to
cut out patterns or sew very well so, please, will
you show me how ?”

“I have some paint mixed now. Will you ‘please
come see whether the color’s all right for the dis-
tant trees in the woods?”

“Where are the little nails?”

“\Vhere are the screw—eyes ?”

“I can’t find the big needle.”

“Do you have a copy of the play for me? I want
to start learning my part.”

Permissions and help are given. Purple velvet
and nails and screw-eyes and needles are found.
The color of the paint is scrutinized and the c0py
of the play produced—all in a very small segment
of a single teaching day. For there’s never a dull
moment for “teacher” when marionettes are in the
making.

Teacher doesn’t mind. Enthusiasm for puppetry
runs high among the children. It
0 is more than contagious. It is
inspiring. The
youngsters beg
to have a part
in the class.
Meetings of the
group never
1 a s t 1 o n g
e n o u g h f o r
t h e m. T h e y
want to keep
on longer, to
come back when
school is over.
Making mario-
nettes is an ab-
sorbing interest
for children.
And no wonder.
In playing and
working with

AUGUST 1945

By MARGARET BUSHONG
Lawrence. Kansas

Careful hands and serious faces
for the paint iob on the puppets

 

the little actors, the youngster is
introduced to twenty or more
different ways for occupying his
hands and his head.

He explores numerous new fields in this activity.
Any one held may lure him further in pursuit in his
leisure hours. Nor is the work with marionettes
limited to the children in a class, for very often
“Daddy” is called in to make a stage, mother or
big sister to help with the costuming, the stage
curtains, and other bits of sewing, and little brother
to be a second voice and string-puller. Everyone
takes part in the show and has fun and recreation
in so doing.

A small room with a few furnishings and a per-
son experienced in making marionettes and pro-
ducing marionette shows in charge can keep many
small hands busy and make many small hearts
happy. For what could be more fun than creating
your favorite fairyland or storybook hero or vil-
lain, making him a costume, attaching strings and
making a control to give him “life,” giving him
lines to say. And that is only the beginning. You
create a background for your character with paint
and muslin. With saw and nails and wood you
make him tables and chairs, a miniature stool or
a log, all the tiny prOperties that
he will need for his story. You

speak his lines
and set his body
in motion in
the world you
have created for
him. All this
you can do in
one small room.
In such a room
children like to
gather to work
and play to-
gether. They
will not need
to be forced to
come. They will
return again
and again be-
“cause they want
to finish the

239

240 PL 'LLINU .8 TRINUS

3

character the); have started, want to be ready to
take their part in the play when it is given. They
will spend many hours in this wholesmne activity
because it is recreation for them and they can see
the fruits of their labors. Many times the young-
sters will beg to stay on after the teacher in charge
finds it necessary to leave. Always when time for
the meeting’s end comes around there will be sighs
of regret.

A work bench, a small cupboard, a place for
hanging completed inarionettes, a few tools such
as c0ping saws, tack hammers, a small drill will

sllmCC for permanent equipment in the marionette
workshop. For materials you will need fine saw-
dust and paste for heads and arms, cloth for bodies
and legs, a few screw—eyes for attaching strings,
small pieces of wood for control bars, some heavy
black thread for stringing, small cans of primary
colors and white in enamel paint, muslin and tem-
pera paints for scenery. You will need, too, pieces
of cloth of all kinds, colors, and textures from the
scrap bag. It the marionettes are made simply——
and they should lie—they will be finished in a

(( outimrr’d on page 272)

On such a stage as this the puppet show moves about the city

 

I

Courtesy Department of Parks, New York City

RECREATION

New Plans in Old Communities

in; FAIRFAX County Recre-
Tation Association is planning

to open'twenty-six playgrounds this smnmer.
They will serve almost every section of the county’s
416 square miles. This would not be news were it
not for the fact that until 1943, there was not a
single playground or planned summer recreation
program of any kind in the entire area. That sum-
mer there were five. The following summer ( 1944),
there were nine. In the fall of 1944, sixteen were
recommended for this year. Ten additional com-
munities insisted that their needs he met. They are
now included in the plans.

There is another unusual feature about the Fair-
fax program. It is. in inception and execution,
entirely a citizens’ movement. As yet it receives
no financial assistance from public funds. It has,
however, through its successful demonstration
gained “promises of future favorable considera-
tion” from the Board of Supervisors.

What the County Is Like

The county is a large one. In the decade 1930-
1940, its population increased .from 18,000 to
40,000. Only six per cent of its population was
then classified as urban. Its location just outside
the nation’s Capital has brought an additional ten
to twelve thousand people into the county in the
past five years. Old residents say there has been a
change “from a strictly rural population to an
urban and even in some cases cosmopolitan popu-
lation.” Yet these residents, with their urban tem-
perament, live in a rural area. There are several
small towns ranging in population from 500 to
2,500. There are several large housing projects.
There are hundreds of acres of beautiful farming
country with large estates interspersed with family-
sized farms.

School buses bring the children to fine consoli-
dated schools. There are four high schools—the
largest at Fairfax Courthouse with an enrollment of

1,000. There are several nationally known private
schools.

The Old and New Meet

It is this same Fairfax County which is some-
thing of a national historical shrine. Thousands of
tourists visit George Washington’s home at ML.

AUGUST 1945

By JEAN and JEss OGDEN

Vernon each year. In the beau-
tiful old courthouse, they may
see the wills of Martha and George \Vashington
and other docnments of pre- and post-Revolution-
ary times. Nearby is the Pohick Church built on a
site chosen by George W'ashington. Here, the rec-
ords say, the famous Parson \Veems occasionally
preached.

One could dwell indefinitely on the historical
interest of Fairfax County. In fact. it is said that
some of the older residents find it difficult to with-
draw their attention from the splendid past. Yet
the problems of 1945 have impinged. The Fairfax
Recreation Association has resulted from the at-
tempt of citizens to face these problems squarely.

How the Program Began . r

In the fall of 1942 it was noted that children
returned to school with bad habits acquired during
the summer vacation. Some had even been in court.
Interested citizens called together a committee to
consider the situation, to analyze its causes, and to
determine possible remedial steps. This committee
included representatives of the Parent-Teacher
Association, the V‘Velfare Department, the public
and private schools, and the courts.

.The committee knew that many mothers were
away from home working. Their guess was that
planned care for preschool children was needed.
They proposed a survey to determine the extent
of this problem. The cooperation of the schools
was offered by Superintendent Woodson and the
elementary supervisor. Each child carried home a
questionnaire. Seventy per cent of them carried
back the answers. The civics classes were asked
to do a follow—up job on those that did not come
back. They visited homes and got'the answers to
the questions.

The survey revealed that preschool children of
working mothers did not constitute a community
problem. It indicated rather that the danger spot
was in the number of “key-age” children (those old
enough to carry the key to the house) left to their
own devices throughout the long summer vacation.

These children, said the committee, must have
playgrounds. Money was needed. The committee
appealed to the Board of Supervisors. The Board.

in turn, "appointcd a committee. Discussion and

241

242

study began again. All this had consumed months.
Summer vacation was again approaching. It was
obvious that getting county funds appropriated was
going to be too slow a process. An appeal was sent
to the community chest. Several of the persons
most keenly interested in the program were on the
executive committee of the chest. An appropria-
tion of $2,000 was secured. A committee of three
was appointed by the chest to administer this fund.

In five communities, interested individuals or—
ganized local committees to sponsor their programs.
As service clubs and other organizations became
interested, they were given representation on the
committee. These local committees were to become
the backbone of the county program.

Local Communities Assume Responsibility

The Community Chest Playgrounds Committee
urged each local sponsoring group to match the
funds allotted to the com-
munity from the chest ,ap-
propld'ation. A few could
not do this. Others that
could raise more did not
need the entire amount al-
lotted. Thus additional
funds were available for
the smaller communities or
those of more limited finan-
cial resources. In addition
to raising money, the local
sponsoring group took re-
sponsibility for hiring its playground director,
asking the school board for use of school facilities,
getting equipment, planning programs, and organ-
izing volunteer helpers from the community.

Five playgrounds, each with a paid director,
opened that first year (1943). Three were unquali-
fied successes. Of the other two, one had a limited
pr0gram that attracted only the older boys; the
other got off to a bad start because it was thought
locally to be for indigent children, and everyone
stayed away.

,_ . The Schools C00perate

It may have been only coincidence but there
were no court cases that summer. No one con-
nected with the playgrounds claimed credit for this
improvement, but the fact did not hurt their cause.
The next year the community chest increased its

appropriation to $4,200 and turned to the schools
for help.

School personnel had been interested from .the

\

I

The proof of the piiddiiig- is in the eating!
Fairfax County in Virginia has proved once
more that rural communities can have good
recreation programs it they want badly enough
to plan for it and work for it. Jean and Jess
Ogden went to Fairfax to look at the program.
came home to write the story as the sixty-
eighth number in the New Dominion Series
published by the Extension Division of the
University of Virginia. They have given 'us
permission to reprint the story in RECREATION.

NEW' PLANS IN OLD COMMUNITIES

beginning. Use of school facilities had been granted
the local sponsoring groups the first summer
though there was no official school supervision. In
1944, with the program growing rapidly, the super-
intendent of schools appointed Mr. Robert Mavity,
the director of athletics at Fairfax High School,
as supervisor of school property and paid his salary
during the summer months. The Community Chest
Playgrounds Committee continued to function as a
kind of administrative body. The local committees
still carried responsibility for their own programs
but turned to Mr. Mavity for advice in selecting
directors, buying equipment, and planning pro-
grams. He was officially custodian of school prop-
erty. Actually he was supervisor and coordinator
of playgrounds for the entire county. There were
nine successful community programs that year-
eight white and one colored. Each had a paid
director (average salary $150 a month) for ten
sweeks, The playground
idea had been accepted.
Attendance was good. Pro-
grams were so successful
that in some communities
certain phases of the work
were continued throughout
the winter.

County Association
Is Formed

"9

In considering plans for

1945, the community chest

appropriated $6,000 and suggested that participat—

ing communities form the Fairfax County Recrea-

tion Association. This association, with represen-

tatives from each community, acts as the county

administrative and policy—making group. The

Chest Playgrounds Committee now tur'ns funds

over to the association which in turn allocates
them to the various communities.

School cooperation has likewise been extended.
This summer Mr. Mavity will act as general
supervisor. He will be assisted by the athletic
directors of the other four high schools and by a
Negro supervisor engaged for the purpose. All
five salaries will be paid by the school board.

Plans for Serving More Centers

Because playgrounds have increased so much
more rapidly than funds, the association has work-
ed out a “unit plan” for the coming summer. Two
playgrounds form a unit. Each unit will have a
director serving each playground in. the unit on

RECREATION

NEW PLANS IN OLD COMMUNITIES 243

alternate days. If a community wishes to furnish
supervision—either paid or voluntary—for other
days, it may do so. This unit plan will assure paid
leadership for twenty white and six Negro com-
munities three days a week for eight weeks. Di-
rectors will be paid for nine weeks and will be

required to attend a training conference for the'

week preceding the opening of the playgrounds.
Volunteer leaders and members of local commit—
tees are likewise invited to take advantage of this
training which will consist in part of an exchange
of experience and skills among the several com—
munities. Some experts from national organiza-
tions will also take part in the program.

Variations in Programs

The idea of the week’s 'training was suggested
by the diversification in activities throughout the
county. The skills of each leader determined
largely the emphasis in his program. One play-

ground specialized in arts, another in handicrafts,

another in folk dancing, and yet another in dra-
matics. One community made
movies—doing everything from se-
lecting the stories to be dramatized
and writing the scripts to playing
the parts and taking the pictures.
In one community recreation for
adults was important enough to
attract about 300. Teen-age activi—
ties in another were so well pl'an-
ned that they carried over into a
year-round program. This hap-
pened to be the smallest community. _
It has only about 500 inhabitants.
Participants in the recreation pro-
gram live in the surrounding open
country. In the most urban center,
on the other hand, activities were
diversified. This year, it will have
three playground centers.
Throughout the county, the usual
sports and games received atten—
tion. There were softball and base-
ball leagues. Horseshoes, picnics,
concerts by the high school band,
and community singing have been
among the more general programs.
Transportation restrictions have
limited inter-community activities.
The exchange of experience and
skills at the training conference is
expected to strengthen the coor-

AUGUST 1945

dination of the program. A weekly newsletter pub-
lished throughout the summer will afford oppor-
tunity for" continuous exchange. There seems,
however, little danger that the programs will be—
come standardized. The importance of each local
committee in planning to meet the peculiar needs
and interests of its own community precludes this.

Many Organizations Cooperate

W'ithin local communities, service clubs and
other organizations have helped financially. In
only one town has money been appropriated by the
town council. There is hope of increasing appro-
priations from both town and county funds. In
one community, Rotary is the local sponsoring
group; in another, Lions“ Club; in others, the
PTA; and in several, a Recreation Committee
organized for the purpose.

(Continued on page 2.76)

One community specialized in dramatics

 

Courtesy A aetpm t, ouege

RAth ON THE playground
has its own special prob—
lems. But it has, too, spe—

cial values to participants. For;
to that natural actor, the child, drama is full of
exciting possibilities, and everything is grist to his
drama mill. The chief difficulties lie in a definition
of terms and in keeping standards high enough
to make the activity productive of genuinely worth-
while results. But any summer playground that
can boast a well-planned drama program will be an
exciting place for a child to go.

Personnel

The people who are planning such a program
need to take into consideration the two general
methods of conducting drama on the playground
and to decide which is possible in their own situa—
tion. Sometimes, of course. especially in larger
systems where there are many playgrounds in one
community, it is possible to combine the two
methods. In general, the program may be led by
a drama specialist, or it may be under the guid—
ance of the regular playground leader who may or
may not have had special drama training. It is obvi—
ous that more ambitious plans may be laid out if a
drama specialist is available. But it is not necessary
to throw drama entirely out of the program if the
playground leader must add this kind of activity
to her other duties. It is necessary to know what
can, in fairness, be expected of specialist and leader.

The Drama Specialist

The specialist comes to the playground with
material and techniques which she can adapt to the
ability of the children and to the available facilities.
She understands the value of letting children de-
velop their own modes of expression. She experi-
ments, therefore, with new forms. She has a
definite rehearsal schedule, and at the end of each
session she decides whether the day’s activity has
served its purpose or whether it might be further
developed to the advantage of the children and for
the pleasure of an audience. Thus, by implication,
she is prepared to carry out two types of drama.
She may supervise the small, informal re-creation
of a story or an incident on the playground which
is done for the sake of the doing and is-not. rev

244

By MARIAN PREECE
Department of Municipal Recreation
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Playground Drama

created for an audience. Or she
may lead her young charges
into a more elaborate, longer-
termed job of acting and pro—-
duction which has a public performance for its aim.

The Playground Leader

The regular playground leader may have had
no formal drama training, and her acting‘ experi-
ence may be limited to childhood “playing show.”
But it may be that through the very dearth of her
ownt drama adventures she is more conscious of
the drama hunger of “her” children. So, in addi-
tion to her manifold duties of conducting games,
handcraft, nature, and music periods, she will find
time to help the youngsters bring to life princesses
and fairy godmothers, heroes and knaves. She
should take care that she does not attempt too am-
bitious a program, that she does not plan to make
these periods of play-acting into formal produc-
tions for, in the nature of the case, she will have
neither the time nor the experience to make a
formal program successful. She can guide and en-
courage the children in giving form and purpose
to their dramatic re-creations. If she has had some
training in drama, she can go a step or two further
toward producing a play for an audience—as far
as her knowledge and her time will permit. She
cannot and should not be expected to undertake as
large a program as a specialist who can devote her
whole time to the one phase of the playground
program.

Facilities

Facilities available on the playground for dra-
matic activities should be carefully surveyed before
the program is undertaken. There must be a place
that lends itself to play production. This, more
often than not, will be only a shady corner or a
paved area with the wall of a building for back-
ground. Like those Londoners in the cockpit of
the Globe who ,were transported in a prologue to
the “vasty fields of France,” the playground audi-
ence may be carried to Sherwood Forest by a
young narrator piping “and the nex—t scene is
the camp of Robin Hood under the Greenwood
tree.”

Scenery, it, is true, is not necessary for giving a

RECREATION

PLAYGROUND DRAMA 245

play. But it helps. A hedge, a group of trees, a
stone Wall may serve as a starting point that will
give some child the joy of concentrating on a
scrap of wallboard, a brush and a can of paint as
he makes a little crooked chimney to rise above a
cottage wall. A square of chipboard hinged to
swing between two screens becomes the door that
will let Goldilocks into the bear’s very own house,
and as she slowly opens the door she will probably
hear a long. indrawn breath of excitement from
her audience. Scenery may be simple, but it is
important, for it fulfills the double purpose of
helping to create an illusion and of giving budding
craftsmen an outlet for their creative needs.

Augmenting the Natural Setting

\Vell—built lattice screens or screen frames that
are light enough to be shifted easily, but firm
enough to withstand a sudden gust of wind are
practical in serving many purposes for playground
shows. To hold them in place, use triangular braces
attached to the sides of the screens with hooks.
The braces should be weighted at the base with
sand bags. or ——-better still -— with cement blocks.
Even with these precautions, however, there is a
limit to the amount of wind that screens used out—
of—doors will stand.

Screens can be used in almost an unlimited
number of ways. Against a natural background of
trees 1and shrubs and covered with branches and
vines, they may serve as wings and mask the
actors waiting for their entrances or after they have
left the stage. They can serve as set pieces. Their
outlines are easily changed by adding profile pieces
of wallboard or even heavy cardboard. Two screens
held together by a piece of wallboard that has been
cut in the form of an arch can be the entrance to a
castle. They can be painted on one side to suggest
one scene and reversed to show another and en—
tirely different setting.

Platforms and steps give variety to sets and to
the action of the play. They are well worth the
price, for if they are carefully constructed and
carefully stored when not in use they can “double

in brass” for many plays over many years both
indoors and out. '

Properties such as lanterns, shields, baskets,
trays, and dishes can be made in handcraft periods
for the productions. After the performance is over,
they will be an unfailing source of stimulation for
informal drama hours.

AUGUST 1945

Dressing the Part

3!

All children like to “dress up. But, too often,
when costumes are mentioned, budget rears its
ugly head. A cast of fifty youngsters all clamoring
for a costume may well cause any leader whose
budget for the occasion runs to $7.59 to go quietly
mad. In such a case, however, there is a solution.
Such character costumes as pirates, or nationality
costumes as Mexican or Polish can be effectively
suggested by accessories—hats and sashes, aprons,
bonnets, vests and boots. For large groups, the
more uniform the color and outline of accessories,
the more effective they will be.

Some cities have built up a large costume ward-
robe by spending small sums each year. Such a
system is highly advisable where'Iproper storage
space is available. Costumes from the wardrobe,
issued to playgrounds on request, should be made
of materials that will stand laundering and hard
wear, with generous seams and hems so that they
may be easily altered. *

Good taste in planning costumes to be used by
children or for child audiences doesn’t always get
the attention it deserves. Anything that tends to—
ward the vulgar or the tawdry should be avoided
like the plague.

Dramatic Materials

One of the difficulties that faces planners of play-
ground drama programs is where to go for pro—
gram materials. There is, in all conscience, little
enough good prepared material for informal dra-
matics. That is, perhaps, all to the good. For
playground drama will probably be more truly re-
warding if it grows out of the day to day experi—
ences of the children-——the stories heard in story
hour, incidents that happen during the day’s oc—
cupation, details suggested in music periods or
craft periods. (In another place in this issue of
the magazine* there is an article that bears closely
on this matter of creating drama materials.)

If there is a drama Specialist she will know
where to go for plays and pageants and festivals
suitable for playground production. She will know,
too, the best way to work with children in develop-
ing their own materials. In any case, the impor—
tant thing to remember in choosing dramatic
materials is: Playground drama is for the child

. first. The audience is very much a secondary con—

sideration, if it is to be considered at all.

*See W’rite 'Em and Reap, page 227.

Dramatic Art Festivals for Tomorrow

E ARE DREAMING of the
postwar days as a time
when some of our most
cherished ideas may come true;
as a time when all our planning,
our efforts, and our desires will take definite form
and come to fruition. -

In our school drama, as in any other field of
education, we have every right to expect, if not an
entire1y_diiferent program of teaching, at least a
change in methods and their application.

One phase of school dramatics, because of the
variety of motivations and its influence on the at-
titude and approach to drama, should be given an
even more prominent place than it now occupies.
I have in mind dramatic festivals. (It goes with-
out saying, at least for me, that in the future we
should eliminate altogether dramatic tournaments
and contests.) ,

We should plan for festivals free of competition
and rivalry, black looks, and hurt feelings; festi-
vals which will develop a new sense of values and
insure better work and heartier cooperation; which
will instigate imagination and not jealousy, which
will offer opportunities for creative work and not
for star performances in choice tournament plays.

I envision such dramatic festivalswhere original
plays, directing, and acting will be fused into one
harmonious unit—and will give impetus and in-
centive for better work in the future, and not the
sensation of emptiness resultant after a failure. I
am looking forward to the time when various
directors and groups will meet for a dramatic fes-
tival in a true sense of the word; radiant, eager to
present their creative effort, and interested to see
what others are doing; anxious to swap ideas,
experiences and knowledge, and willing to be told
why they came out on top, or why they were below
par. I put a special emphasis on this last and
extremely important phase of telling “why” and
“why not.” i ‘

My most fervent hope is that in our postwar
dramatic festivals we will do something to our
methods of judging of plays. I will go farther and
say that not only plays, but scripts, poems, public
speaking and reading should be judged differently
from the way we are doing it now.

I don’t see any point and consider it a sheer

waste of time for a judge, orragroup of judges, to

246

By BENJAMIN ROTHBERG
School of Education

University of Pennsylvania
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

sit through an evening of one—
act plays and then select one
without explaining to the other
players why their plays were
. rejected, or, for that matter, why
a certain play was accepted. We can’t cover up
this approach by saying—“It was evident that this
play was superior to others.” What made it su-
perior, that is the important point. The same ap-
proach goes for a script, or interpretive reading.
I, for one, believe in the conference method of
judging. I believe in a round-table meeting of
judges, players and directors. It gives everyone a
chance to know what impression was produced by
a certain play and an opportunity to learn why a
play failed, or came below par. Without this free
exchange of opinions there is no reason for partici—
pation, since the loser doesn’t know what to do to
improve his endeavors.

As I see it a dramatic festival should have these
motivations:

1. acquaintance with dramatic literature

2. incentive for creative work (playwriting, design, etc.)
3. dramatic study

4. exchange of ideas and experiences

Out of the above motivations a whole series of
incentives will evolve in a variety of fields con-
nected with drama, theater, and allied arts, like:

1. original playwriting
2. opportunities for original directing and acting
3. studies in costume, make-up, and stage design

The dramatic festival also should offer a series
of clinics or conferences which all the participants
should be urged to attend and take part in wher-

ever possible. These clinics or conferences should
include:

1. demonstrations in lighting
demonstrations in make—up
demonstrations in scenery making
. conferences on acting, directing, and casting
. conferences on playwriting, scenario writing and
radio writing
6. conferences on speech techniques—for stage, radio,
television
7. talks—demonstrations and conferences on general
play production
. conferences on the backstage organization
9. exhibitions of costume plates, photographs of stage
sets and original stage designs, stage models, books
on drama and theater
( C anti?th on page 277)

meww

OD

RECREATION

New York Holds a Drama Festival

shock to teachers in small com-

.munities that the New York
City schools have just held their
first drama festival. Dramatic events of this type
have been a tradition throughout the country for
so long, that to view a festival as an innovation
seems like peering back into the annals of. time.
And New York, of all places, not to have had a
festival before! New York, one of the great cen-
ters of culture! Thereby hangs this tale.

Because New York offers so many means of
diversion, because it has motion picture houses on
what appears to be every other corner, because it
revels in the Times Square theater sector, it has
little time or patience for amateur theatricals. So,
many years were gathered to their fathers before a
group of high school teachers summoned up enough
courage, or foolhardiness, to embark on a festival
venture.

The initial step taken, another problem peculiar
to large cities presented itself. New York has
eighty-four public high schools, most of which have
student bodies equivalent in population to small
cities. Registers of 4,000 to 5,000 are not uncom-
mon. The enormity of the task of administering
and supervising these schools has, of necessity,
created a High School Division in the Board of
Education which is less personal in its relations to
the schools than the local board of a small town
can be. This fact, plus the multitude of projects
presented almost daily to the Board for approval,
has brought about a formidable system of checks
and counterchecks, which might have daunted a
lesshardy crew than‘the determined group who
presented the festival plan. One year after the
conception of the idea, the planners were author—
ized to form a committee and go to work. Five
and one-half months later the festival was held.

That, in broad outline, is the story. The details
are, naturally, more harrowing. However, since
enumeration of procedure down to the last tele-
phone call is unnecessary for an understanding of
festival organization, what follows is a general
picture of the problems involved.

To begin with, the committee decided on a fes-
tival rather than a contest, since it felt that sharing
an artistic experience was of greater educational

IT WILL probably come as a

and cultural value than competing fora-prize i

AUGUST 1945

By MARJORIE L. DYCKE
Samuel J. Tilden High School
BrooklynI New York

would be. This spirit of coopera-
tion permeated the endeavor from
beginning to end, even to the ex-
tent where participating schools
borrowed “props” from one another for rehearsals
and performances. The hope of the committee was
not only that the festival be an enjoyable e'irent,
but that it also serve as a stimulus to enrich dra-
matic programs in all schools for the future. I

Questions of policy immediately arose. What
limitations should be placed on the choice of plays?
What maximum length was to be permitted? What
scenery should be used? Where was the festival
to be held? What facilities were available? Where
was the money coming from?

These questions were settled at a general meet-
ing to which all interested schools were invited.
(The committee thought that everyone participat-
ing should have a hand in framing the festival
policies.) The decisions reached were the fol-
lowing:

(1) Scripts should not be censored by the committee.
Faculty adviser should be permitted free choice
of play.

(2) Running time of plays should not exceed forty
minutes.

(3) All plays were to be done in drapes, with the door
and window flats provided by the school where the
festival was to be held.

(4) All properties, costumes, and the transportation
thereof were to be provided by the entrant.

(S) Royalty fees were to be paid 'by the individual
schools.

(6)'Tickets were to sell at 50¢, 40¢, and 25¢, in order
to fit the pocketbooks of all pupils, and to induce
audiences to see all of the performances.

(7) The participating schools were to pay no entry fee,
but were to guarantee the sale of their ticket
quotas.

(8) The schools were to turn all money in to the Drama
Festival Committee.

(9) They were to submit expense accounts to the com-
mittee, who would then reimburse them to the ex-
tent of twenty-five dollars.

(10) The Association of High School Teachers of
Speech and the Association of First Assistants in
Speech, (the sponsors of the festival in accordance
with the rules of the Board. of Education), were to
be reimbursed to the extent of their contributions,
and were to receive, in addition, $50 to ’be ear-
marked for future festivals.

(Continued on page 274)

247

Out of the Tiger's Den

Into the “Show Business"

U EY, MAC, when do we start working on the
H next show ?" Twentyrsix boys and girls,
the cast of a new “hit” (the crew were in
abscutia, setting up for Act II) bore down upon
the director of Hackettstown’s Tiger’s Den. Their
musical comedy, Hay, Hay, What Sayi’, was one-
third over. Already it had justified the work that
had gone into it. When the evening was quite
done. the young writers of book and score were
breathless with the heady wine of success.

Mrs. Sidney McCartney. director of the Youth
Center, had suggested an original musical comedy
as a project for the teen-agers who looked to her
for leadership. To the youngsters her idea seemed
a “natural.” Not only were they eager to get their
teeth into a stimulating activity, but they needed
and wanted a public address system for their club-
rooms. Here was a chance to raise the necessary
funds.

Almost without pausing for breath, a script
committee got to work on the book. They de-
veloped a story about a group of teen-age boys

By WILMA M. MCCARTNEY

Superintendent, City Center
HackeHs’rown. New Jersey

and girls who went to work on a farm because of
the manpower shortage. The story came along
nicely. but there was a large question mark about
the music. No one on the committee could whip up
a song for love or money! So they took their
problem to the student body at the high school and
the question mark became an exclamation point
when a young lady of fourteen years not only
offered to write the songs but did so with ease,
dispatch, and conspicuous success! With the music
for seven songs in their hands and their heads,
the script committee had no difficulty in creating
the lyrics to go with the music.

The script completed, tryouts were held. No-
body in Hackettstown had known what wonderful
variety talents were hidden under bushels all

(Continued on page 276)

 

248

RECREATION

Design for Promoting a Listening Audience

Q
a

HERBS MORE TO RADIO than turning a dial.

There’s more to it even than finding air time,

finding a good script, casting it. rehearsing it,
going on the air with it. There's more to radio
than the willingness of the local station to allocate
time “in the public interest" to the director of rec-
reation for a thirteen weeks or a twenty-six weeks
series. Unless a radio series is heard, it might just
as well not have been broadcast. , Unless a series
from the recreation department is heard by a large
number of people it is not worth the time and the
strength and the effort that went into it. So, you
of Podunk, U.S.A., who are planning to use radio
as publicity, need for your own sake to promote a
listening audience.

Beyond that, you owe something to the station
making air time available to you. In the business
of radio time is money—quite literally. It is' true
that each local radio station holds its operating
license in part upon the condition that a propor-
tion of its time be allocated to programs “in the
public service.” It is also true that the majority
of local- station managers are public-spirited men
who are eager to further community programs.
Nevertheless, they are business men too, and
theirs is the job of maintaining high standards for
their station, of increasing the listening audience.
If, therefore, the manager of your station has
granted you, as director of recreation in Podunk,
U.S.A., the gift of time-money he has a right to
expect from you a promotion campaign. For your
part, you owe him. the biggest possible listening
audience. You owe it to him, to your series, and
to your recreation program.

You cannot do the job alone. You cannot and
you should not. You need to reach the whole
community. Begin with that. The audience you
want to talk to is the whole community. There—
fore, the job of promoting that audience is the
community's job. To reach one segment of that com—
munity is not enough. You must aim to reach them
all. No one agency can do that.
You will need the combined efforts
of all your town’s agencies to bring
these stories to your community.
Begin text]: the conmnmity.

Community Planning
What agencies in your town
should you call upon to help you?

AUGUST 1945

There are in general ten agencies that will help
you. All of them may not exist in your town. Use
all of those that do exist. They are schools: public.
parochial, private; churches, libraries, P.T.A.’s,
nuiseums, the Junior League, the :\.A.U.}’V. ; youth
agencies: Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Y.W. and
Y..\l.C.A.; community centers and settlements.
Your initial job is to take the lead. Take the
lead in forming an advisory committee. Take the
lead in seeing that each of the cooperating groups
has the opportunity of taking that part in the
plan which it is (a) most interested in doing, and
(b) best equipped to do.

The Advisory Board

CAt‘TION: these suggestions are only sugges-
tions. No one can tell you exactly what to do
in your town. The plans and the blueprints must
come from your own knowledge of your commu-
nity, your own imagination. your own choices from
among the alternatives that are presented here.

The function of the advisory committee is two-
fold—to assure the radio station a wide listening
audience because of the number of community in-
terests it represents; to plan in detail a promotion
program, to spread the news of what is to come
and keep it spread. The choice of the members of
the advisory committee will vary from town to
town. It should certainly include representatives
of the libraries and five or six people from the
schools. among them one or two school principals.
It should also include representatives from the
outstanding adult groups whose interest you as
recreation leaders want particularly to enlist.

Two words of warning about the choice of the
advisory committee. I. Keep it small—not more
than eleven or twelve members. 2. Be sure that
every member of the committee is deeply interested
in putting the series over—deeply interested and
willing to work. Don’t have on the committee
anybody who is uninterested in radio. If you think

this a foolish warning, well, it has
been done!

Here is another article on the
use of radio by recreation de-
partments. The first was- Go-
ing on the Air? in the Decem-
ber I944 issue of RECREATION.
The second, Patterns for Pub-
licity in Radio, was published
in RECREATION for March 1945.

Design for Promotion
The series will need behind it
a well—developed promotion plan
for two reasons: (I) To see that
every person in your town knows
about the program—~the station

249

250 DESIGN FOR PROMOTING A LISTENING AUDIENCE

call letters,‘ the place on the dial, the time of day, a

the day of the week, the fact that it is a weekly
program. (2) To assure the station manager that
he will have an audience for the program. No
station manager wants to take the chance of play-
ing platters to the empty air. If he is giving you
time (his most valuable commodity) you owe him
an audience. '

Be sure your promotion plan is as broad as you
can possibly make it and is designed to spread
throughout the series—before the program goes
on the air, during the series, perhaps a grand finale
to coincide with the end of the program. Re-
member, too, that while the program is on the air
you must nnd ways of gauging the extent of your
audience and report on this periodically to the
station.

Here are a few suggestions of basic promotion
methods. Adjust them with imagination to your
town. Use others that may occur to you out of
your particular knowledge of your own situation.

I. Newspaper Publicity. (CAUTION: The amount
of newspaper space available varies. Newsprint is
scarce and must be husbanded. Remember, this is
the least part of the whole promotion picture.
Make the most of what you can get, but don’t
worry if there isn’t much.)

2. Posters and Handbills on bulletin boards, in
schools and libraries, in department stores, in com-
munity centers, settlement houses, and, of course,
at your own playgrounds and indoor recreation
centers. The posters and handbills may be made
under the direction of your art supervisor or they
may be printed commercially. In the latter case
you may be able to get some commercial groups to
fmance the printing in return for an ad on the
posters or handbills.

3. Bookmarks. You may be able to get the libra-
ries to c00perate by placing bookmarks in all the
books issued from the public or school libraries.
This is especially true if your series happens to be
a dramatiaation of stories or parts of books. The
bookmarkmay be made or fmanced in the same
way as the posters.

4. Announcements to schools, churches, P.T.A.s,
Scouts, A.A.U.W.’s, Community Centers, Service
Clubs. '

5. Car Cards in street cars, busses, and school
busses.

6. Studio Audiences IF your station permits
them.

7. Listening Groups at recreation and commu—
nity centers, in libraries and museums when your
program is being aired.

8. Notices to Teachers in all schools within the
radius of the station.

9. Movie Trailers announcing the program.

This is the kind of promotion that comes from
the community. The radio station can be expected
to give short plugs before this program goes on
the air and to list the program through its regular
publicity channels.

Approach to the Station

Know your station! Know the type of pro-
gram it carries, whether its coverage is local or
regional. If there are two stations (or more) in
your town, study them carefully before you decide
which to approach. If one of the stations is
regional don’t automatically decide that it is the
most readily listened to. It may not be. The
station with local coverage may be the best for
your purposes. Or you may find a smaller station
more cooperative.

Go to the station with an excellent and detailed
promotion plan, ready—in your hand. Be sure
you don’t approach a regional station with a pro—
motion plan that is purely local.

Remember that you are asking the station mana-
ger for time which is the equivalent of money.
Remember, too, that your request will have to be
fitted into a schedule which is governed by many
considerations of which you can know little. A
local, sustaining program can never command the
cream of the station’s time.

However, don’t go without some idea of what
time you want. For this you and your advisory
committee must have decided upon two factors:
the time which the station has available, and pro-
grams on competing stations. Make the best
bargain you can with the station——-both these things
considered. Your promotion plan is your bargain—
ing power. The better the plan the nearer you
will come to the cream of the time.

Never forget! Radio aims at a mass audience.
Promoting that audience is a community project.
Do not let your own belief in the work you are
doing lead you to assume that everybody else in
the community will automatically share your enthu-
siasm. Many people will “have to be shown.” The
more community groups you have working with you
to promote a listening audience the better chance
yOu‘Will haveto show the whole community.

RECREATION

What They Say About Recreation

N 'r OUR BEST we respond to beauty——music, art,
A drama. It is even- more wonderful to create

beauty—to participate in the arts for the
joy of living. We remain workers, but for a little
while we live as artists. Through these expres-
sions we discover new worlds around us.”—From

Growing U p, I.L.G.W.U.

“Art must touch in one way or another the daily
life of every citizen of our nation. It is a vitally
important integral part of life in a democracy.”—
From Related Arts Service.

“We can give our children the confidence they
need by doing things with them at home. Children
live for action. Play with them and they will be

more receptive to home responsibilities.”—House
and Garden.

“There is a book for every mood, and one can
journey the world around by merely going to the
library or the bookstore.”——W. F. Bigelow in
Manual on Children’s Boole W eelc.

“The average boy wants to use tools and make
things. He is fascinated by the possibilities which
he finds in the shop with its materials, equipment,
and leadership. Here he experiences the thrill and
pride of possession that comes from satisfying the

creative urge which is so strong in every boy.”—
From Boys’ Clubs.

“People are learning that society actually reaps
profit out of pr0per aid given to the underprivi-
leged child. If billions are spent annually because
of crime, the dollar spent today at the source of

prevention will save thousands tomorrow.”——-
' Honorable John Warren Hill.

“In leisure and recreational training art study
is of maximum importance, whether the activity be
music, dramatics, painting, sculpture, weaving, or
other handicrafts.”-—From Related Art: S ervice.

“Children are much nearer the inner truth (if
things than we are, for when their instincts are
not perverted by the superfine wisdom of their
elders, they give themselves up to a full, vigorous

activity. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven.”—
Fried rich Froebel.

AUGUST 1945

“Play is a type of experience that strengthens
and enforces man’s freedom. The society that
claims to be a great, free society must be one that
is great in its play.”—H. A. Overstreet.

“To have great poets there must be great audi-
ences too.”-——-W alt Whitman.

“The old stories are not superseded. They are
simply reaffirmed in a fantastic world which com—
bines the magic of science with the violence of
primitive man. They are themselves the seven-
league boots by means of which children of the
future will bridge the gap between man’s aSpira-
tion and accomplishment.”—Frances C. Sayers in
Foreword to Stories.

“A child’s spirit can be undernourished as well
as his body. Your faith and your courage and your
love are Grade A foods for your child’s Spirit.
There are no others as good.”—Katherine Len-
root, Chief of the Children’s Bureau.

,_____.

“We know that competition in art, literature,
and all creative work tends to bring accomplish—
ment to a dead level of mediocrity because indi-
vidual expression is shaped to conform to the
standards of judges who are a part of the system.”

——Plzoebe H. Valentine in A Review of Two
Charitable Trusts.

“The destruction of our natural resources, when
carried on with war as an excuse, is treason. Their
conservation for war use is patriotism.”—C. M.
Finfrocle, Dean of Law School, Western Reserve
University.

“Mightier than armies with banners, the quiet,
undramatic forces of education are the safeguards

of freedom, tolerance, and human growth.”—
Beulah Amidorz.

“Mental health is a weapon for victory as potent
as armaments. We should create a healthy attitude
as we build industries for offense. Confidence not
only creates well—being but radiates to our fellow-
men. Confidence based on fact is a cornerstone of
mental health. Our national self-confidence will

contribute to civilian morale.”—Joseph L. Fetter-
man in H ygeia.

251

Lights!

NE NIGIIT in this month of August, there
0 will be a party at the Children’s Thea-
ter in Palo Alto. It will be a rather
special occasion because it marks the end of a
new and exciting experience in Palo Altq's
recreation program, and the beginning of a
project which, so far as is known, is the first
of its kind to be launched by a municipal rec—
reation department. For that party will honor
the “World Premiere" of the motion picture
Titian.

Titian is a forty-live minute story enacted
with color and sound before a sixteen mm.
camera by the people of Palo Alto and gradu-
ate students of Stanford University. It exists
because the Recreation Commission of Palo
Alto saw that their facilities and their per-
sonnel could be used to provide increasingly
rich recreational experiences not only for their
own town, but for many thousands of children
all over the country.

The film is a dramatization of an incident
in the life of the boy Titian. It was first

produced in play form be—
Quiet games between sequences fore 3 “Eve” audience and
so had been tested for in-
terest and sound dramatic
values by people typical of
those to whom it would be
shown on film. The story
of its making is a kind of
latter day fairy tale.

 

Titian and his sister

Getting Started

The story begins with
the desire to carry to the
children of a wider com-
munity the fruits of Palo
Alto's drama program.
Trouping the plays that
were built on the home
stage cOuId, in the nature
of the case, reach only a
small area. But once mov-

 

252 RECREATION

Action!

ing pictures were made of those plays there
was no limit to the number of youngsters who
might enjoy them. The dearth of good films
for boys and girls was a lamentable fact. Com-
mercial film companies were not filling the
need, and it seemed to the staff and the com-
missioners of Palo Alto a sound idea that they
do some experimenting in this field.

It was obvious from the first that no half-
way measures would do. The film would have
to be “out of the t0p drawer.” There could be
no compromise with standards. Producer, di—
rector, script writer, script man, sound man,
camera man would all have to know their
business. Furthermore, they would have to
be willing to work with actors whose only
experience with a motion picture studio was
a tourist's—eye View. Finally, they had to be
able and willing to work with children. These
peOple were found.

Preparations

They came to Palo Alto, met and talked to
a group of children who
had taken major roles in
three full-scale productions
in the Children's Theater,
selected from that group
the two boys and two girls
who would play the lead-
ing parts in Titian. To
these children were added
seven adults, three horses,
a donkey, half a dozen
cows, a flock of chickens,
and a kitten, to make up
the cast proper. Thirty
more children and thirty
more adults participated in
group scenes. All these
actors, ranging in age from
three to seventy-six years,
were having their first ex-

perience before a profes-

AUGUST 1945

Riding the dolly

Palo Alto boys work the switchboard

‘

 

 

253

254 LIGHTS! CAMERA .' ACTION .-'

 

On location

sional camera. All of them were people who had
lived in Palo Alto or had some part in the pro-
gram set up 'by the Palo Alto Recreation Com-
mission.

In the meantime other members of the commu-
nity and of the theater staff were working on other
phases of the production at the theater. The tech-
nical staff and their crews were building sets, de-
signing and making costumes, devising properties.
The city librarian was
checking and rechecking
books on fifteenth cen-
tury Italy to be sure that
every detail was authen-
tic. The scene was to be
laid in Titian’s boyhood
home at Pieve de Cadore.
A Palo Alto restaurant
keeper had come from
that small Italian town
where his family had
lived in the same house
for 800 years. He pro—
vided many bits __ and
pieces of information
which were used to in-
sure technical accuracy.
Other people in the com-
munity were eager to
help. Permissions to use

property for scenes shot
“011 location” were gen-
erously given by property
owners along the one road
where the proper back-
grounds for all the out-
door settings were found.
\Vhen an advertisement
appeared in the local
paper requesting the loan
of a donkey, offers of
seven such animals were
received posthaste. One
hundred thirty volunteers,
one way or another, con—
tributed to the success of
the picture.

Making the Picture

Finally the sets were

complete, the costumes

and properties ready in every authentic detaiL
Cast and crew were ready to roll.

The trained movie—makers had brought along
skeleton crews to man the lights and the sound
equipment and the dollies that carried the cameras.
But these were only skeleton crews. Much of the
actual technical work of shooting the picture was
done by boys and girls of high school age who had
learned the craft of playmaking under the staff of

An inside shot

 

RECREATION

the Palo Alto Children’s
Theater. They approached
this new technique in an old
art with enthusiasm and in-
terest, and in short order
could speak with authority
of “ashcans” and “dollies,”
camera angles, and footage
readings. They were having
a wonderful time. Not a lit-

LIGHTS! CAMERA! ACTION!

The Recreation Commission of Palo Alto.
California, seeking increasingly rich rec-
reational experiences for the people of the
community. have made possible a proiect
which will benefit many thousands of chil—
dren all over the country. Titian, a
forty-five minute motion picture in color
and sound. will shortly be available for dis-
tribution anywhere in the United States.
For further information about the film.
write to Mrs. Hazel G. Robertson. Palo
Alto Children's Theater. Palo Alto. Calif.

255

bringing along. During the
ten days of shooting the
adults concerned consumed
fourteen pounds of coffee!
Every day, at four o’clock,
cast and crews alike had a
good stiff dose of vitamins.

The group scenes were
turned into a picnic. The
actors came to the theater,

tle of this satisfaction came

from the opportunity to

work with the sound man, an Army Captain re-
cently invalided home from the South Pacific. (He,
by the way, found that this experience working
for children solved the problem of what he wants
to do now that he is, perforce, a civilian again.)

A moving picture, unlike a play, cannot be made
on a long-term schedule which permits of rehears-
als spaced so that they will fit into a day filled
with other obligatory activities. The sun—and
camera men—wait for no man! This might have
been a problem as far as the children were con-
cemed, for schools, too, have fixed time schedules
that must, in most cases, be met. But by order of
the superintendent the boys and girls were given
assignments to prepare while they were “on call,”
and they were excused from attending classes.

Work began at 9 A. M. and continued—when
necessary—until midnight. During these extra-
long sessions (planned as far as possible for week
ends) the children had regular rest periods. They
slept peacefully after lunch and dinner when they
were not actually playing. For their part they
willingly gave up the childhood joys of going to
parties and frolics so that they would not be over-
tired when the time came to speak their pieces
before the camera. At other times when they were
not on the set the children studied or read or
played quiet games in the theater’s Secret Garden.

Cast and crew had lunch, dinner, and a ten

o’clock snack at the theater. Meals were cooked
in the theater’s kitchen and

were supplemented by spe—

got into costumes (make-up

presented no problem for,
with the exception of one beard, none was used)
and watched the indoor takes until the sun was
right. Then everybody adjourned to the bills for
the filming of the crowd scenes, knocking off for
an alfresco lunch at the psychological moment.
\th11 one of the group pictures—a procession—-
was made, the three-year—old actor slept peacefully
in the arms of an adult who was-carrying him.
The complete relaxation of the small boy adds a
touching bit of realism to the scene. An un-
foreseen difficulty came about as the result of this
picnic. The next day faces were not the same
color as they had been the day before. The sun
had taken a hand in make—up!

Completion

At the end of ten days the filming was done.
The musical score, written especially for the
picture, was ready for dubbing. The job, except
for the work to be done in a film laboratory, was
over. The children planned a party on the last
night of the shooting. The honor guest was “Joe,”
the director. The piece de resistance was a large
and luscious cake decorated with particularly
gooey pink sugar roses and topped off with a
sparkler. The youngsters gave Joe the cake and
a hearty invitation to come back and make another
picture—but soon.

Difficulties
All this had not been accomplished without dif-
ficulties. For example, the
scene shifters for all of

cial and delectable dishes
sent in by the people of the
'town who wanted, in this
way, to have a part in the
community experience. The
youngsters did their own
supplementing between
meals with cookies and fruit

which they took turns in ‘

AUGUST 1945

The photographs that illustrate this story
of Palo Alto's adventure into new realms
of theater were taken by Anita Fowler.
staff photographer of the Children's Thea—
ter. They represent part of a complete
record in "stills" that she kept while the
film was being made and which was used
each day to check up on details of settings
and costumes. The pictures are reproduced
through the courtesy of the Palo Alto
Recreation-“Commission; and Mrs.- Fowler.

Palo Alto’s stage produc-
tions were high school boys.
But scenery for movies is
something else again. It
must be massive—real—not
a thing of light wooden
frames and canvas. Before
the eye of the camera there
can be no “faking.” The

256 LIGHTS! CAMERA! ACTION !

youngsters were not quite strong enough to handle
the heavy walls and doors, but they were not
daunted. They simply called in their fathers .who
came gladly to help the boys!

One problem early in the game bade fair to
spoil the whole show. The producers station
wagon. loaded with equipment, caught on fire. The
crew turned firemen and put out the fire with
grass. Then they turned mechanics and cleaned
the carburetor of the “grass roots” dirt.

Sound. too, was constantly being troublesome.
The wind blowing into the microphone set up an
unwanted roar. A boy's “beanie” was pre-empted
to serve as a temporary sound filter until a more
scientific solution could be devised. A bee decided
to investigate the mike and nearly deafened the
sound man before it could be coaxed out and sent
about its business. One scene was shot in a field of
grain. The wind blowing across it came over the
sound track like a great rattling of giant beans, so
the mike had to be placed below grain level. The
songs of meadow larks got so mixed up with the
dialogue that a whole sequence had to be shot
over again. Even inside the theater noise was a
complication, for the drone of Navy planes on
Pacific patrol duty could not be kept out by four
ordinary walls. The interior scenes had to be made
between the times when the planes were overhead.

Color was another problem. In the script the
young Titian, without money to buy paints, sees
his dream of becoming a painter disappearing. In
his dejection he picks and crushes a flower whose
stain be recognizes as a
basic ingredient for paint
which he can have Jfor the
asking (and the mixing).
In his search for other
colors he needs red clay.
Unlike the Italy of Pieve
de Cadora, the country-
side about Palo Alto had
no banks of red clay. The
grey bankside that was
to be used for this scene
had to be painted with
calcimine blown on dry.

A minor and recurrent
difficulty was provided
by“D0pey.” “Dopey” was
a pointer pup, and he had
practically been born in
the traditional dressing
room. He had the run of

the theater where his actions could, in a measure,
be controlled. Jiut when the group was on loca—
tion nobody could guarantee that “Dopey” wouldn’t
decide to add his voice to those of the cast at a
moment when a barking dog would be definitely
out of place. He was left behind tied up securely.
llisliking such treatment he chewed through ropes,
wiggled out of chains that took their place, and
periodically proceeded to get himself lost. When
the real estate oFfice or the children at the Junior
High School phoned to say that “Dopey” had
turned up, he had to be gone after before he
wound up in the pound.

Cooperation

In spite of all the difficulties the picture was
made. It is something of a milestone in the his-
tory of motion pictures. for it is probably the first
time that non—professional, recreational theater
members and professional motion picture tech-
nicians have combined their talents and their equip-
ment to make a picture for children. That such a
thing was possible is a tribute to the' cooperation
of everybody concerned. The director believed so
firmly in the importance of the job that he worked
——and worked hard, as the results testify—without
salary. The Speech and Drama Department and
the Music Department at Stanford University, and
the Music Department at the San Jose State Col-
lege contributed their special skills. The technical

( C antinucd on page 268)

Getting ready to shoot

 

RECREATION

Gold on Treasure Island

HERE’S SOMETHING nostalgic and exciting
Tabout Treasure Island. You remember the

days when Long John Silver was as real as the
boy next door and you dreamed of gold by night
and dug for it by day. You remember that you
expected to find it with the next strike of your
shovel. The war has not quite erased the old
romance. You know that Treasure Island means
men training for battle, men being sent out to kill
lest they be killed. You know that there is no time
to look for pirate gold, and no illusion about its
existence—even on Treasure Island. But you
wonder whether any place with the magic name
can be without a fragrance of that sense of adven-
ture that used to walk with you and Robert Louis
Stevenson. So, you begin to look around you at
this huge naval training and distribution center
more than half expecting something out of the
ordinary.

You see men and women coming and going. You
see them learning the ways of war. You wonder
if they have any spare time and what they do with
it. You wonder what is being done about their
recreation. You begin to ask questions, and you ask
to be shown about.

You are taken to see the new recreation center——
formally opened on December 20. 1944. It is an
enormous building housing the offices of the Rec-
reation and Entertainment Division. It has a
main lounge, game room, hobby shop, library. tele—
phone room, publication offices of the weekly paper.
The Masthead, offices of the physical training and
maintenance section. Near it you see two other
new buildings. In one of them are two swimming
pools, a gymnasium, bowling alleys; in the other a
motion picture theater.

You talk to the director of the Service Center.
She tells you that she served overseas in the last
war—in Germany—*with the Army of Occupation
in 1918-19. She says she is trying, as far as she
can, to serve as substitute mother to the thousands
of men and women who come to the center. She is
not sentimental. She is a little hesitant in talking
about herself. She says she is repaid many times
over for anything she does by watching the boys
and girls in the lounge or the hobby shop or the
game room. They have a good time.

She is proud to show you the main lounge. It
is 107’ x 54’. The furniture is modern. The dec—

AUGUST 1945

oration follows the latest trends in design. You
see that the walls are copper-colored; that there
are many comfortable chairs and divans, writing
desks. tables. You sit at the beautiful grand piano
and start a song from the last war. That delays
your inspection. It is evening. Before you can
get away you have played “favorites” for a score
of singers who have clustered around you. Finally,
you give up your seat on the piano bench to a
sailor and rejoin the director. She has been talk-
ing about flowers with a tough-looking seaman
who wants to know the names of the spring blooms
in one of the many bowls scattered about the room.
When the war is over he thinks he will plant a
Flower garden near his house on a farm. His wife
would like that. You start to speak to a boy you
think you know. You don’t speak to him because
you see that he, has fallen asleep in a deep chair. His
finger marks his place in the book.

The director tells you to wander as you like in
the building. You thank her and walk through the
game room. You stop for a moment to watch a
ping-pong battle. There are fourteen pool and bi]-
liard tables. Someone tells you that the use of
each table is limited to forty-five minutes. You
think that here time too, is a thing that must not
be boarded.

You have been skeptical about the hobby_,shop.
You wonder how much use it really gets, and how
good its products are. You see at once that it is
good. Instructors are teaching beginners in paint-
ing and leathercraft and clay modeling. You learn
that there is no charge for teaching or materials.
The instructors are volunteers. You notice that
everybody cleans up his own place when he is
ready to leave. They like that, one of the men tells
you. They like. too. to have a place where they can
“make a mess" without being quarrelled with. A
\VAV E wraps her clay model in a damp cloth
before she turns to talk to you. She tells you that
she hasn’t been to the “beach” since the hobby
shop Opened. You wonder what she means and
she tells you that “beach” is Navyese for town or
city. “This is so much more interesting than play-
ing around the streets in town.” You hear of
another \VAVE who had wanted to paint all her
life. Her parents insisted she go to college first.
She had left college to join the \VAVES. Here,

(Continued on page 278)

257

Fit for a King

AUSICAA, Homer’s princess of
N Phaeacia, for sport decorously

tossed a ball to her maids of honor a thou—
sand years ago. Thousands of girls, princesses of
another kind of court, in white shorts and copper
legs today bat their ball with vigor across a net.
The‘ tale that lies between is the success story of a
great international sport which was held respon-
sible for the death of a king, affected the course of
legal history, drove gamblers to a debtor’s prison,
and enabled swindlers to live their lives out in
embezzled luxury.

Tennis, at hrst played indoors and called “court
tennis,” was at the start a‘ royal game. Its begin-
ning seems to be linked with the pastime of the
feudal kings and barons of Italy and France during
the middle ages. It gradually lost its signihcance
in Italy but its popularity in France remained

By ETHEL SORGEN

constant and it was taken up in Eng-
land with great enthusiasm.

About 1424, when tennis was the great national
sport of France, the name of Margot appears. She
was considered the greatest tennis player of her
time, excelling in both forehand— and backhand
strokes. Before rackets were in use, Margot played
with her hand unprotected and could beat any
man in France allowing him to wear a glove or
bind his hand with gut.

Louis X of France, an insignihcant ruler in the
matter of political prowess, was a great tennis
enthusiast. His death was attributed to a chill
contracted after a turn at his favcirite sport.
Charles V was devoted to the game and selfisth
tried to ban it as a pastime for the lower classes.
It was during the reign of Charles V that all the
great nobles played constantly for huge stakes, and

 

Photo by William M. Rina”

258 .

Courtesy Hood College

RECREATION

FIT FOR A KING 259

when they lost their fortunes they put up their fine
clothes rather than give up the game. Affairs
came to such a state that a law was passed for-
bidding court gallants to play in their shirts, and
the Church Council of Sens specifically stated that
monks should play neither in their shirts nor in
pubhc!

Further examples which prove the extreme
popularity of tennis are almost endless. Charles
'V I watched the play from the room in which he
was confined during his attack of insanity, and
Du Guesclin amused himself with tennis when
Dinan was under siege. In the reign of Henry IV
the saying was common that there were “more
tennis players in Paris than drunkards in Eng-
land.”

Another avid French tennis fan was Henry II,
who far outshone the nobles of his time. His
father, Francis I, played the game in his less spec-
tacular moments as did his grandson Charles IX
and his successor‘Henry of Navarre.

In the seventeenth century, tennis became a
spectacle in France and the professional player
came into existence, the most famous of the time
being Le Pepe, Clergé, and Servo. Huge sums of
money were wagered, especially at the end of the
sixteenth century when the stakes were placed
under the cord or net during play. In England,
about I 750, there was so much betting and swin—
dling especially by professional players that tennis
as played in public courts fell into disrepute.

There was a time when “stunting” was fashion-
able. Masson, the great French player, would
stand in a barrel before receiving the service,
spring out of it and back in before and after each
stroke. .

Tennis as a vigorous trial of speed and skill ‘fell
into decadence with the coming of Louis XIV.
Following his desire for magnificence and splendor,
Louis turned the sport into a mild and insipid
pastime. The actual play lost its importance through
a myriad of elaborate ceremonies created by the
monarch. He had his private court, a carefully
trained court dignitary who presided over the
game. The splendid monarch even went so far as

to have a special lackey who handed him his
racket!

Despite Louis’ contribution to the downfall of
tennis, it continued to flourish in the nineteenth
century, but its popularity waned as increased
building caused the demolition of many courts.
Furthermore, the construction of courts, complete
in every detail, became so expensive thatféw could

AUGUST 1945

afford to have them. The last of the old courts to
disappear stood in Windmill street at the top of
the Haymarket in London.

The first courts had no nets. It was in the
seventeenth century that netsé—«ropes fringed or
tasseled and stretched across the courts—began to
be used.

\Vhen it first began, tennis was played with the
bare hand. Somewhat later a leather glove was
used to protect the hand, and then the system of
stretching strings violin fashion across the palm
to give more power to the stroke was introduced.
The next innovation was the use of a wooden bat,
followed by a racket either strung or covered with
parclfment. The strings on the earliest rackets
were placed diagonally. Later the present verticaln
horizontal stringing was adopted. Finally the-
strings came to be knotted at the points of. inter-.
section and the modern racket emerged.

America was not immediately swept overboard
by the great wave of enthusiasm for tennis, and it;
was not until 1880 that the Boston Athletic Asso—-
ciation and the New York Racket and Tennis
Clubs were built.

Lawn tennis, the modern adaptation of the
ancient game, did not really exist until 1874. It
is true that outdoor games based on tennis were
from time to time improvised by enthusiasts of the
sport who found themselves out of range of a.
tennis court. Lord Arthur Hervey had devised a
game which he and his friends played on the lav'm
of his rectory in Suffolk, and even as early as the.
end of the eighteenth century “field tennis” was.
mentioned by the Sporting Magazine as a game
that rivalled the popularity of cricket. .

In 1874 Major Wingfield took out a patent for-
a game called Sphairistike, which was described;
as a “new and improved portable court for playing-
the ancient game of tennis.” The court for this.
game was wider at the base lines than at the net,
giving the whole court the shape of an hour-glass.
Only one side of the net was divided into service
courts, and side nets tapered from the net posts
down to the ground at about the middle of the
sidelines, thus enclosing nearly half the courts on.
each side of the net.

The possibilities of Sphairistike were quickly
perceived and under the new name “lawn tennis”
its popularity grew so quickly that in 1875 a meet-a
ing of those interested in the game was held at
Londs cricket ground where a committee was ap-
pointed to draw up a code of rules. At the sugges-x

(Continued on page 275)

Richer Lives for the Elderly

ANY MEN and women who
M have lived beyond three
score years are not espe-

cially interested in any form of
recreation. They spend much of their leisure time
—often all their waking hours—reading, visiting,
or standing on a busy corner watching the world
pass by. Some of the older people in Mesa, Ari-
zona, still follow this routine. Others, however,
have learned to enrich their lives with the many

and varied activities oti‘ered by the Recreation De-'

partment of the city.

At Rendezvous Park you can see, almost any
day in the year, groups of Mesa’s elderly residents
playing croquet or engrossed in a tight game of
horseshoes, or huddled about one of the park’s
round card tables enjoying one of their favorite
games. Today it may be chess, tomorrow Chinese
checkers. Yesterday it was, perhaps, Michigan.
Men and women alike enjoy these activities and
play them together.

In the summertime, Thursday night is reserved
for family picnics at the park. On these occasions
grandmothers and grand-dads are as much in
prominence as any other age group. When all the
picnic food has been disposed of in the accepted
manner, a community program is given on the
park stage. There are seats for the children and
the old people. If some of the latter group lose in-
terest in the stage show, they may find their way
through the gate in the Oleander hedge to the ball
park and root for their favorite softball team.

Just after the first of each year Cactus Cuttings,
an annual published by the Mesa W'riter’s Club,
comes off the press. The club draws its member-
ship from many age groups; recent high school
graduates at one end, grandmothers and grand-
fathers at the other. Some of the old ladies and
gentlemen spend much of their leisure time writ-
ing poetry, fiction, essays, and it is they who con—
tribute the greatest number of acceptable articles
to the annual.

Delight in theater and the ability to act doesn’t
cease at sixty. Mesa’s Little Theater has the en—
thusiastic support of elderly thespians as well as of
youngsters. Its season—Lfrom October through
April—insures happy hours alike to actors and
spectators who are moving along toward the three-
quarter century mark.

260

By GOLDEN R. TUELLER

Director, Parks and Playgrounds
Mesal Arizona

Another activity for the older
people, not sponsored by Mesa’s
Recreation Department but cer-
tainly sanctioned and supported
by it, is the old—time dance. Old-time dances are
held once each week in the Mezona, a public dance
hall owned and operated by the Mormon Church
but open to the public. Many of our older pe0ple
attend these dances and derive much satisfaction
and pleasure from them.

MeSa’s city .library is excellent for a town of its
size—excellent and well fitted to serve the public.
Older people find there a varied assortment of
reading matter—fiction and non—fiction, science
and history and biography and poetry. There, too,
are current periodicals written or'illustrated to
suit almost any taste.

Genealogy always holds special interest for older
people. The city library’s genealogical section is
supplemented by a large collection of such books
in the library at the Mormon Temple. Although
the use of this collection is limited to Mormons,
anybody can get information on a family “line” or
“tree” through Mormon friends or through mem~
bers of the staff whose researches into the past may
be purchased for a price. Interest in genealogy at
Mesa is stimulated by the hundreds of Mormons
who come there each winter for the special pur-
pose 'of following their family histories and by the
people of other religious beliefs who, coming to
Mesa for the pleasant Arizona sunshine, are de-
lighted to find such good facilities for delving into
the'past convenient to their hand.

The Mesa Union High School lends a hand to
the program. The school authorities have fur-
«nished a set of club rooms and equipped them com-
fortably. They may be rented for a small fee by
any group, young-or old, who want to meet to
dance or play the radio or just sit and play quiet
games as they choose. The club rooms are popu—
lar and many older groups find it especially con-
venient since there is a kitchen from which meals
can be served.

Mesa does not claim to have solved the prob-
lem of recreation for older pe0ple 100 per cent or
even 25 per cent, but we have provided a few
facilities which older people can and do use. After
all, any group, old or young, will engage in whole-
some recreation activities if proper facilities are

RECREATION

RICHER LIVES FOR THE ELDERLY . 261

available and conveniently placed, and if a small
measure of inducement is used to get people
started. One very important thing about providing
recreation for older pe0ple is that once you do get
them started they go along very well without much
leadership.

In planning for the older adult, there are cer-
tain principles of programming that should be con-
sidered before setting up specific activities:

Older adults should be allowed to proceed at
their own pace and with their own program, with-
out the imposition of a planned program.

It should be remembered that older people look
back instead of ahead, and it is questionable just
how much they can be changed. It should be the
function of those working with older adults to try
to make them interested in the present and also
the immediate future.

It may take a longer time for new suggestions to
be accepted by an older adult group than by a
younger one. Moreover, sudden changes and sur-
prises, even though good for the sake of variety,
can often be upsetting to many old people.

It should be remembered that the simple and
less complicated ideas are the ones which are likely
to have the most appeal for the older person.

Elderly people want to be alone some of the
time. However, just as at any other period of life,
they need and want social contacts but actually
find them more difficult to achieve and maintain
because friends have passed on, and family and
young-people have moved away.

Generally speaking, older women do not want
to be separated from younger_ones although this is
not so vital a point with the men. Men are more
adept at playing games and finding things to fill
their leisure time. Most women have spent their

younger years being housewives and mothers, and
when they no longer have the

opportunity or need to do
these same things, they are at
quite a loss. No doubt the
increased interest in hobbies
and greater scope of profes-
sional activities for women
in recent years will change
this picture in another gen-
eration.

Activities should never be
abruptly stOpped, but should
be adapted to the altered ca-
pacities of the older adult.

 

AUGUST 1945 DRURY COLLEG

There is increasing interest in experi-
ments by institutions and community
agencies in the provision of recreation
for the aged' and RECREATION is at-
tempting to compile and publish as many
as possible of these experiments. It is
highly important that groups undertak-
ing programs of this kind understand the
principles involved. .-Many of these prin-
ciples are to be found in Program Aids
for Adult Education, March I945, re-

printed here through the courtesy of the
National Jewish Welfare Board.

E LIBRARY”

Programs for older adults can be planned for
those who live in private homes in the community,
and a group or groups of older adults might be
formed under the special guidance of a well-trained

leader.

Program Hints for the Older Adult Group

The program emphasis should be on an easy-
going recreational basis, for that is what these
people need most. Some of the following special
projects might be worked into the regular program :

Holiday celebrations. Invite the older adult
group to hold celebrations and special functions.
In cases where a mother-daughter tea or a father—
son dinner is planned, make arrangements to have
the audience represent several generations.

Individual birthday remembrances.

Special musical program: group singing of old—
time favorites, or a program of record favorites.

Entertainments in which children perform. Ser-
vice to children’s groups. For example, one girls’
club might be interested in reading to the older
adult group in exchange for some help they may
give in the line of sewing or cooking.

A community project that would not only offer
something to do, but might also develop a deeper
community spirit —- knitting for the Red Cross;
quilt-making; making children’s toys and doll
clothes; helping children's clubs with their cos-
tumes; compiling scrapbooks for older adults con-
fined to institutions, and participation in commu-
nity-wide functions.

Book reviews. Sponsoring exhibits, which may
be borrowed from public libraries, museums, down-
town stores, or other places.

Occasional buffet suppers or teas.

Special arts and crafts sessions.

Game nights —checker tournaments, spelling
bees, square dances, and other games known to be
enjoyed by the oldet adult
group, especially games
played in the “old country.”

Preparation of a special
publication which has items
of particular interest to older
pe0ple. In this, members of
the older adult group might
recommend radio programs
of interest, places to go, cal-
endar of events at the library
or museum, easy recipes,
suggested reading.

(Continued on page 270,}
.

Springfield, Missouri

sylvania air. All along the

Main Line, that famous rail-
road that runs between Philadelu
phia and -Paoli, people are board-
ing trains that will drop them off
at Bryn Mawr station, en route
to the Bryn Mawr Art Center and
Bach’s Art of the Fugue or a
Vivaldi concerto.

Many of the visitors will be
coming to listen to a recital. Many
others are going to play in a
string quartet, a string ensemble,
a duo piano team. A cartoonist, a
medical student, a newspaper man, a housewife
will join with “professional” musicians to make
“amateur” music. For these are real amateurs—
lovers—of the art of music and they play for the
love of it and for the pleasure of their friends and
neighbors—and themselves.

The doors of the Center stand hospitably open
for all who care to enter as performers or as
hearers. The Center is supported by public-
spirited members of the community for the benefit
of all who love the arts. There are no hard and
fast rules. The activities that take place within its
walls grow from the interest of the people who
use it. A lone fiddler—like most lone hddlers—r
yearned to play with a group. He lived at the Cen-
ter, played the viola, brought his musical friends
along to play with him. During the winter, when
the spirit moved them (which was frequently),
they played quartets. Now and again there would
be as many as thirty-five musicians who had come

THERE’S MUSIC in the Penn-

for miles to play a Brandenberg concerto. These'

people had no formal director. But there was
usually somebody around who could wave a stick
with musical intelligence—a student at Curtis

Institute, a church organist, a professor of music ,

from one of the near-by colleges; r

262 '5

-~'-a- I

H“-

 

Courtesy Reading, Pa., Recreation Department

A lone fiddler usually

yearns for companions

In the course of time the members of this group

'sought their own levels. Some played well“; some

were not so far advanced. Some preferred smaller
groups. So several orchestra groupings came out
of the lone fiddler’s musical loneliness. An ad-
vanced ensemble now has a regular director who
rehearses them steadily and regularly against the
day of a recital for the community. A beginner’s
ensemble meets weekly. There are quartets and
trios and a 'piano quintet meeting whenever they

can;

There is, too, a two-piano group at the Center.
Its history is another of those Topsy (“just
growcd”) stories. Some years ago several people
living near Bryn Mawr closed their large homes
and moved to smaller quarters where a “concert
grand” was a liability rather than an asset. So the
Center woke up one morning to find itself hostess
to g-zine pianos. The head of the Center’s music de-
partment saw an opportunity too good to be missed,
so she twinned those pianos and issued a general

RECREATION

LET’S MAKE MUSIC 263

invitation to neighborhood pianists to come in and
try their hands at piano duets. They came accord-
ing to their several natures' some to retire shyly
to the privacy of the third floor studio where they
could work undisturbed and undisturbing behind
closed doors; others, with bold and uninhibited
cheerfulness, to open attempts at anything from
Bach to Stravinsky. Bold or shy, the response to
the invitation was enthusiastic and the Center built
up its library of two-piano scores until it has this
kind of music to suit all levels'of ability from be-
ginners to virtuosos. The second and fourth Tues-
day in each month is rehearsal time for piano

 

duets. From 8:30 on, the walls resound to the .

strings, played pp or if or somewhere in between.

Pianists work with the string groups, too. One
member of the group recently played for the first
time with a string ensemble. She confessed after-
ward that when all the strings were playing at the
top of their bent she could not hear herself. “Which
I guess was a lucky thing!” remarked the lady
with humor.

What does all this mean in terms of music?
W'ell, for one thing it seems to be another indica—
tion that Americans are coming of musical age.
The performers whose delight is in the Center are
varied in their musical backgrounds. Some of them
bring to their daily lives the musical traditions of
the Continent of Europe, either directly or by one
generation removed. Some of them have played
from childhood on any instrument from jew’s
harp and harmonica to violin and organ. Some
have been conductors of symphony orchestras.
Some have taught music in school or college. But
others, though they have had some training on the
piano or violin or cello, are just average Ameri-
cans whose avocation has taken them into the
realm of music. All of them have in common an
abiding love of music and a delight in making it
together.

The Art Center in Bryn Mawr is giving to
these men and women the opportunity to find
great joy in their common interests. \Nhether they
are taking a'busman’s holiday from a job with an
orchestra or string quartet or are finding here their

only opportunity to share the delight of playing to- ,

gether with other pe0ple, they are all free from the

taint of necessity. They can play what they choose 3

for the joy of the playing and for this they must
all bless the Center many times.

AUGUST 1945

Cultural Values in
War Time

By DAVID BRYN-J ONES

MUSIC IS NOT LESS NECESSARY now than it was
in times of peace. It is more necessary and
more necessary, too, is that its quality should be
of the highest. And it is not important merely as
an escape from the grim realities of wartime as
some even of its devotees are inclined to suggest.
It is important as solace in trial, as inspiration to
effort, as a tonic in a time of strain. Above all it
is important as one of the basic conditions of main-
taining our spirit and our way of life. Ameriéan
unity is not achieved by believing the same things,
uttering the same slogans, cheering the same
speeches. It is achieved by sharing in the same
interests, responding to the same appeals, cooper-
ating in the enrichment of a common life, finding
ourselves in common responses and appreciation
to whatever is beautiful and fine.

Lord Dunsany years ago wrote a phantasy, the
title'of which I have forgotten. It was the story
of a youth in the Spain of long ago in whose heart
there burned a desire for romance and renown. He
determined to set out in quest of them. He took
with him his sword and his mandolin. The pur-
pose of the first is obvious since it was in war that
renown could be won and it was to the wars that
he would go. The mandolin might have its uses,
too, and by it he might achieve romance! So he
set out.

He came at last one night to the scene of bat—
tles. The armies were encamped ready for combat
when morning came. Now they were gathered
around the camp fires to wait the passing of the
night. Our hero knew nothing of the issues in-
volved in the conflict nor of the prospects of suc—
cess on either side. But on one side or the other
he would fight when the battle was joined.

To one camp he went saying to the commander,
“Let me play for your men; gather them around
the camp fires and let us sing the songs of old
Spain.”

And the commander said, “What, on the night
before battle! ‘We are too busy; we have neither
time nor inclination for such things i”

To the Other camp the youth then went with the

same strange request. Here he was made welcome

——and around the camp fire songs were sung and
(Continued on page 277)

it's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

” MPHIBIANS and Reptiles‘ of the Chicago

Area.” by Clifford H. Pope. Chicago Nat-
ural History Museum, $1.75. The species are not
only well described, but details of their life his—-
torics not often given in a small book are included,
together with excellent sketches of some of the

more intersting details. There are many good
colored plates.

Aquarium. “Guide to Higher Aquarium Ani-
mals," by Edward T. Boardman. lllus. Cranbrook
Institute of Science. $2.00.

Dahlia tubers, buried in boxes of sand of light
soil, will winter safely in a cellar.

Dinosaurs once ruled the world. This was fifty
million years ago. They did not adapt themselves
to a changing environment and now exist in mu-

seums. Men can do the same. It may be happen-
ing right now. °

Hummingbirds. From the May 15 arrival date
of Hummingbirds at “Lily Pond,” Cohasset, Mass.,
up to and including September 8, 125 difierent
people fed these birds from nectar cups held in the
mouth. There were eleven Hummingbirds present,

including five females, two males, and four young
birds.

Human beings. In 1800 Malthus, the Cam—
bridge scholar, maintained that warfare and pes-
tilence would kill off enough human beings to
maintain a minimum standard of living. He under-
estimated man’s resourcefulness. Refrigeration,
the steam engine, medicine, camping, organized
recreation—to mention only a few improvements
on the Malthusian world—

have enabled the population
to keep on growing.

Human chemistry. “The
synthetic chemists are a won-
der at putting things together
out of air, soya beans, coal
tar. Let them now work out
a formula that keeps things
from falling apart-Let them
go into their laboratories and

264

"The best book ot nature is, ot course.
the out-ot-doors. But books that record
man's inquiries and adventures in the out-
ot—doors also play their necessary role.
Rightly used and understood they make
excellent companions and have a way of
remaining quietly in the background
until they are needed. Through them our
understanding is deepened—our moods
interpreted, and our deeper impressions
expressed for us by poetI artist or
philosopher."—Bertha Chapman Cady.

whip up something that will keep the victors in
this war from falling apart. There will then be no
need for worrying about German chemists and in-
ventors.”—Editorial, New York Times.

Insect free rtrorid. Thc new insecticide DDT
is potent. The-Pennsylvania Department of Agri-
culture sprayed a twenty-acre tract of forest killing
not only gypsy moths but all Hies, mosquitoes, and
other insects. DDT was used to eliminate typhus-
carrying lice in Naples. But—insects, good and
bad, are the staff of life for songbirds. They nour—
ish bass and trout. They help to feed the skunk.
They pollinate plants. “If an insect-free world is
ever achieved, mankind will not be on hand to
witness and enjoy it.”

Nature recreation. “Pigs kept in pens are usu-
ally dull and fat, but left to themselves in the woods
what jolly, lively creatures they are!”

Snaii adventure. Place the ordinary land snail
in a glass jar on a library table or even on your
desk and put beside the jar an observation card
reading as follows: The Land Snail or Helix. He
has four “horns” that are not horns. \Vhat are
they? They are used for hands, eyes, and nose.
W'here are the eyes? How does the snail pull his
eyes in? Could he watch a ball game through a
knot hole? Find his beating heart.

Science. Science, fundamentally, means freedom
to experiment, to observe, to draw conclusions, to
act for the good of mankind. To pervert science
for destructon is tragic. To use scientific discovery
to control pests and disease,
to facilitate transportation
and safety, to grow better
crops. is the spirit of scientific
comradeship.

Science in America. “Men
of Science in America,” by

Bernard Jaffe. Simon and
Schuster, New York. 800 pp.

lllus. $3.75.

RECREATION

WORLD.
AT

PLAY

 

Handcraft Contest

 

I)! MAY three sections of
the New York Public
Library played host to
exhibits of hundreds of
varying objects made by
the children of the city.
Airplane models, paintings, work in metal and
wood, plastics and fabrics were on display. The
articles exhibited were made by boys and girls at
centers of the New York Department of Parks.
The contest was sponsored by the New 'York Com-
munity Trust.

THE Evening Bulletin
Folk Festival Association
has invited the citizens of
Philadelphia to join in a
Vacation—at—Home program this summer. Indus-
trial festivals are being held each Tuesday evening
beginning June 12 at the Art Museum Plaza. with
various companies such as the General Electric,
R.C.A.—Victor Company. and the Sun Shipbuild-
ing Company directing programs. Square dancing
is the order of the day on Thursday evenings at
Hunting Park. The Park Commission is c00perat-
ing in these "under—the-stars" programs.

Vacations at Home
in Philadelphia

THE Cleveland traveling
zoo, so popular last sum—
mer, is again visiting each
of Cleveland's public play—
grounds for a half-day session.

A feature of the program conducted this sum-
mer by the Recreation Department has to do with
the day trip and streetcar hikes so successful last
year on some of the playgrounds. Children over

nine years of age go by streetcar to designated
places such as the— zoo, art museum, natural his-

tory museum, a metropolitan park, or the baseball
stadium. The trip is a full-day affair in which the

The Zoo Travels
Again!

AUGUST 1945

 

New York City Department of Park:

participants visit the interesting features of the
area and then take part in a game program.

FOR the eighth consecu-
tive year the San Fran—
cisco Recreation Depart-
ment, in cooperation with
the Sigmund Stern Grove Music Festival Com-
mittee. is presenting a series of fifteen Sunday
afternoon programs. Among the events are orches-
tral coneertsf Operas including Gilbert and Sulli—
van. “Cavalleria Rusticana,” “Hansel and Gretel,"
and “Lucia di Lanunermoor ;" band concerts; and
the Department's annual festival with its program
of music, singing. and dancing.

Midsummer Music
Festivals

 

"liring the family for a picnic lunch before the
concert,” reads the invitation issued by the Rec-
reation Depatment. “Picnic tables and barbecue
facilities are available."

()x MAY 28, 1945, the
Austin. Texas, Recrea-
tion Department began
the direction of a baseball school sponsored by the
American Legion, Post, No. 76. During the week—
long school official rules of baseball were studied
and discussed daily and the fundamentals of base-
ball techniques were taught to boys ranging in age
from less than twelve years to eighteen. The
school ended with three demonstration games. Two
of them—for younger boys—lasted three innings.
The third—for boys between fifteen and eighteen
——was a five—inninggame.

Baseball School

265

266 WORLD A T PLAY

Soldier Art—The “citizen army” numbers
among its members men of many and varied ac—
complishments. Now on exhibit at the National
Gallery of Art in \Vashington, D. C., are 214
entries of soldier art. They were chosen from
thousands submitted by men in each of the nine
military service commands in the United States,
the Military District of Washington, and the
United States Military Academy. The elimination
contest which preceded the selection of the exhibits
was designed to stimulate interest in handcraft for
recreation and to give the artists in the services an
opportunity to show their work. It is estimated
that 9,000 entries were submitted for elimination.
The exhibit will continue until September 4.

Community Club—The East Putney (Ver-
mont) Community Club, organized in 1920, has
been active in community affairs through the years.
The club arranges Hallowe’en, Christmas, and May
Day celebrations for the whole community. East
Putney is famous in the state for its annual Calico
Ball, another program sponsored by the club.

In addition to community recreation, the club is
responsible for milk and for a hot lunch program
for the East Putney School, projects which are

made possible by volunteer leadership drawn from
the club membership.

Folk Festiyal in Canada—In April, Canadi-
ans of British Columbia participated in the twelfth
Spring Folk Festival sponsored by the Vancouver
branch of the Canadian Folk Society. Songs and
dances, dramatizations of folk customs and orches—
tral numbers, handcraft and folklore all had part
in the three day festival. Adults and children of
many nationalities, creeds, and colors took part in
activities that wereras colorful and varied as a
pattern in a kaleidoscope.

Double Appropriation in Two Years—The
Washington, D. C., public Recreation Department
budget received another large increase for the ap-
proaching year. The new budget of $620,000 has
been increased by $58,000, or approximately IO
per cent. This increase is for operating expense

and includes personnel, supplies, materials, and
maintenance.

In addition to $1,150,000 for the purchase of land
for playgrounds during the fiscal years 1945 and
1946, the city has more than doubled its appropri—
ations in the biennium 1944-1946.

Summer Institute—The Columbus, Georgia,
Department of Recreation held a six-day institute
for recreation leaders in early June. Most of the
institute sessions dealt with playground activities
and administration, though some time was spent
on consideration of the relationship of the Recrea-
tion Department to the community and to the other
organizations of the community.

To Pass the Time—Athletic and recreational
activities for the armed forces have come into the
spotlight since V—E day. Athletics and games—in-
cluding interallied events—arts and crafts, enter-
tainments and social events are part of the War
Department’s plan for men and women who must
remain in the European Theater'of Operations
awaiting transportation home or to the South

Pacific.

Story Hour—Mothers in Denton, Texas,
harassed by children underfoot of a Saturday morn-
ing, will have a chance to drop the youngsters
while “Mom” does the Sunday marketing during
the summer of 1945 —courtesy, El Centro, teen—
age center of the community. Each Saturday the
young ladies of the center will hold a story hour
there. Mothers are invited to bring their children
in at 10 A. M. for forty-five minutes of story
reading.

A Community Considers Foreign Affairs—
The citizens of Shirley, Massachusetts, had more
than a passing concern for the activities of the San
Francisco Conference. They wanted to know what
was going on, to be informed about the possibili-
ties of the future. April 22 to 28, 1945 was de-
clared United Nations Week in Shirley, and special
meetings were planned by the USO and the towns-
people. High point of the week was a United
Nations Rally in which servicemen and civilians
considered together the Dumbarton Oaks propos—
als and the San Francisco Conference. The young
people of the community had a, special part in the
program in the “Dedication of the United Nations
Flags,” a number accompanied by Shostakovitz’s
United Nations 5 011g. The rally was scheduled to
end shortly before IO P. M. so that all who wished
to do so could hear together the special broadcast
from San Francisco of Norman Corwin’s script
Word from the People.

Day Camp Institute—In I944, 800 boys and
girls in Schenectady attended ten day camps held

RECREATION

WORLD A T PLA Y 267

 

- ._ _ ’
'Qv "
I ' _‘

"I

‘
l
\

     
 

,Q' .
w ' .
«a l. -. .
I.6“ _ .t.
4-9.: 
qr I

For football, basketball, soft-
ball, tennis, golf, or any sport

v
i
I.

   

y0u may name, there is Wilson
equipment designed, manufac-
tured, tested and proved to
give best possible performance
in our modern type of play.
« j Today the armed forces come
I first. When men and materials
are again available there will
be Wilson equipment for all.
Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
Chicago, New York and other
leading cities.

 Wilson Adriatic Goods Mfg. Co., Inc. Chicago Plant

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS’EQUIPMENT

 

 

under the auSpices of several of the city’s agencies.
In 1945, eleven of these agencies—the Boys’ Club,
Boy and Girl Scouts, Catholic Charities, Child
Care, Jewish Community Center, Schenectady
Museum, Schenectady Parks and Recreation,
Board of Education, and the Y.'M. and Y.\V.C.A.
~——cooperated to hold a Day Camping Institute for
seventy—five leaders. Speakers, motion pictures,
and work groups were on the agenda which was
scheduled for two evenings in May and June.

Treemen and Teachers—The Superintend—
ent of Parks in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, had a brain-
wave about seven years ago, and, as a result, park
caretakers, truck drivers, and tree trimmers have
turned “school teachers.”

The superintendent felt that‘pupils in the eighth
grades could find fun and profit in learning to
identify trees. The youngsters were enthusiastic.
They wanted to know which tree was which, and
they wanted to have that information for both sum-
mer and winter. Part of this learning process takes
place in the schoolroom where the boys and girls
work with a simplified key to identification. When
they know how to use the key they.r“graduate” to

AUGUST 1945

the parks and park men (ordinary laborers, many
of whom have not gone beyond the fourth grade)
direct the pupils in field trips and examine them
on the extent of their knowledge of trees. The
men are interested in the program and some of
them have read and studied the subject in order to
keep up with their pupils.

The superintendent sees three results of the
program.

I. The students learn to know about twenty-
live different trees and to know them in both sum-
mer and winter dress.

2. The students become interested in nature and
learn to appreciate it with the result that the parks
suffer from a minimum of vandalism.

3. The youngsters learn to know and appreciate
park and recreation activities and services. They
become participants in all park and recreation pro-
grams and are staunch supporters of them.

Springfield Solves a Problem—In Springfield,
Illinois, the Playground and Recreation Commis-
sion has been sponsoring a municipal choir for a
number of years. They, like everybody else, have
had their war-bredtroubles—not enough men to

268 STILL GOING STRONG—EL RANCHO!

balance the women‘s voices in preparing a full
program of the music written for large choruses.
But the choir was filling a need in the community
so recreation officials planned a way around their
difficulty. They divided their group into a men’s
chorus and a women‘s chorus; planned their pro—-
grams to include some numbers for the whole
group, others for men’s voices alone and for
women’s voices alone. The net result was highly
satisfactory to choir members and audience alike.

Lights! Camera! Action!
(Continued from page 256)

staff of the Children’s Theater—director, assistant
director, technical director, and art director—car-
ried a double burden, for at the same time that they
were making the picture they were also preparing
and presenting Palo Alto's traditional May fete.
The Recreation Commission gave freely of its
equipment. The town of Palo Alto was solidly
behind the project. And the thing was done.
Titian now stands ready for use by any group in
the country which wants to give its children the
chance to see this kind of moving picture.

Looking Head

Plans for the further develOpment of the proj—
ect in 1945—46 call for five more films. No child
may act in more than one film in the first series
so that many young Palo Altoans will have the
fun and the value of the experience. The boys and
girls who learned to be technicians on the auxiliary
crews will do the whole job next time.

And so the four youngsters are giving a party
one night this month. For food they will have all
the things they liked best when they were having
their meals at the theater or on location while the
picture was in the making. It will probably not
be a balanced diet, but that won’t matter for once.
The dinner will be held at the theater with all the
members of the theater who worked on the show
serving the guests. In the hall, costumes and cos-
tume plates will be on display as well as black and
white “stills” from the picture. For about 200
guests invited to see the opening of the picture by
members of the cast, the heads of each auxiliary
crew will summarize the work done by their fel—
low crew members in putting the movie across.
“Joe” will again be the Special honor guest. It will
be a proud day for all the people in the community
who have helped to make it possible.-

Still Going Strong—
El Rancho!

YOUTH CENTERS come and go, but some of them
stay and grow!

El Rancho at Beaumont, Texas, is one of the
centers which is constantly extending its influence
in the service it renders.

One reason undoubtedly is the support given it
by the Junior \Velfare League which has stood
back of the program since its organization and
which, while encouraging the young pe0ple to
manage their own affairs as far as possible, is
always ready to step in and help when the need
arises. '

The League has also taken the responsibility for
interesting local organizations in the center.

The president of each organization—and there
are about thirty of them—receives a call from a
member of the League, accompanied if possible by
a member of the Youth Council, and is told of the
work of the center. The response to these visits
has been very enthusiastic. Local groups are
anxious to cooperate, and a plan is being consid-
ered whereby each club will sponsor at least one
special event with the Youth Council's help for the
young people of the community—the Magnolia
Garden Club; the Women’s Club, an exhibit of
some kind; the Pan-American Club, an event to
interest the Mexican or Latin groups of children;
various men’s clubs, dances or athletic tourna-
ments. No financial aid is asked of local groups,
and the Junior \Velfare League is continuing its
yearly contribution of $1,200.

The Youth Council, made up of representatives
of the young people, has been enlarged to include
not only’a representative from each school class
(appointed by the members) but also the president
of each social club in every school. The Council
has elected three sponsors who will meet with them
and act as advisers and liaison officers with the
civic clubs. One of these Sponsors is a representa-
tive of the Junior \Velfare League; of the other
two one is an outstanding lawyer and the other’a

young woman gifted in dramatics. ,

The three committees of the Council are: (I)
El Rancho Committee; (2) Athletic Connnittee;
(3) Social Event Committee.

The El Rancho Committee has charge of the
center, which is to have complete rejuvenation at
the bands of the young peOple who will paint the

RECREATION

RECREATION AT PEARL HARBOR 269

walls, design and execute new murals, sand and
wax the floors, and provide slip covers for the
chairs. The center will be reopened with a Satur—
day night dance the 16th of June and an open
house the following Sunday afternoon. Interested
local clubs. the city fathers, ministers. and school
heads will receive special invitations to open house.

The Athletic Committee has a tennis tournament
planned for two of the May week ends with live
championship events—girls’ and boys’ singles,
mixed doubles. and girls’ and boys’ doubles. One
of the men's clubs will act as sponsor and will pro-
vide referees. The city courts will be used, and the
Committee has appointed Council representatives
from each school to register the entrants.

The Social Event Committee is working on a
dance to be held June 9 at the Harvest Club, a
large city building. Another men's organization
will sponsor the dance—this time the Lions Club.
Their committee will meet with the Youth Coun-
cil and make all plans.

The entire Council is to sell membership tickets
to El Rancho to run from June until December.
Membership cards to El Rancho permit the hold—
ers to attend all activities held at the center, but
the other activities planned by the Council outside
of El Rancho are designed for all so-called teen-
agers.

Recreation at Pearl Harbor

ECREATION for Naval personnel in the Four-
R teenth Naval District includes recreation cen-
ter facilities. motion pictures. concerts, and Camp
shows. There are four large recreation centers.
Nimitz Beach, in addition to a bathing beach. has
facilities for sports of all kinds, barbecue ovens,
and picnic areas. Camp Andrews, an overnight
rest camp for enlisted men from ships of the
Pacific Fleet or Marine units from the Fleet Marine
Force, offers an excellent beach, cabins, messing
facilities, game areas and gear. a large canteen, a
USO camp show every Sunday, and concerts and
movies. Outdoor sports, barbecue ovens, picnic
areas, and a large swimming pool attract many
enlisted men to Richardson Recreation Center,
while Waikiki Beach, with its dance music every
afternoon. reading and writing rooms, games,
showers, bathhouses and lockers, is a popular cen-
ter for enlisted personnel.

An average of I 70,000 sailors see movies nightly,
and every Navy facility, regardless of size, has its
own theater. There are 110 activities in the Dis-

AUGUST 1945

  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
     

They'll Wani-

Diamond Shoes!
FELLOWS who learned to enjoy the game

of horseshoes in army camps and navy
bases, with Diamond Pitching Shoes, will
call for Diamond Shoes when they get home.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes 0

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and

Official Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND .CALK-

HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Ave., Duluth. Minn.

trict displaying 35 mm. movies and 60 activities
showing I6 nnn. films. Recently a plan was in-
augurated for providing newer and better pictures
at a distribution cost of only 3% cents per person
attending. Planes carry hlms daily from Pearl
Harbor to various activities and the Hawaiian
island group. Projection equipment is maintained
and operated by enlisted men who were all motion
picture operators before the war, and distribution
is handled by enlisted men who formerly performed
similar work for large motion picture distributing
agencies.

The District Library is also an important part
of the recreation program, and ten trained libra-
rians handle distribution among ships and stations.
Navy men read 12.500 books per month, in addi-
tion to the sets of pocket—sized Army Services
editions of best sellers and classics published by the
Council on Books in wartime. Nearly 300 sets of
30 each of the Council’s books are distributed
monthly, and every month the library receives

5,000 new books from the Bureau of Naval Per—
sonnel in \Vashington.

270 A YOUTH QONFERENCE IN NEW YORK CITY

A Youth Conference In
New York City

ON jaxuasv I3, 1945. an all day conference
was held in New York’s City Hall for a

discussion of problems relating to “New York
City's million young people.” Sponsored by the
Civilian Defense Volunteer Office and the city’s
\Velfare Council, it was attended by a large mun-
ber of young people and adults. Adult leaders in
such fields as education, health. recreation, and
religion presented briefly some of the important
considerations affecting young people. These state-
ments were followed by a round-table discussion
in which a selected group of young pe0ple par-
ticipated. In the afternoon, several section meet—
ings were arranged to discuss'the topics presented
in the morning, and brief reports of these meet-
ings were then presented to the entire conference.
It was evident, especially from the participation by
the young people themselves, that they attach
importance to recreation and leisure-time activities.

Among the steps that were suggested for secur-
ing better recreation opportunities were the open—
ing of school playgrounds after school hours; the
provision of more Saturday night dances, and the
employment of leaders who have a greater under—
standing of children and more sympathy with their
point of view. The young people resented the
extent to which many of their adult leaders and
teachers try to “run everything.” They asked why
young people were not given a larger share of re—
sponsibility in planning and carrying on the pro-
grams designed for their benefit.

Among the criticisms of recreation as now pro-
vided was the observation that there is so much
scheduling of the use of center facilities by small
clubs on an exclusive time basis that the young
people have no opportunity to get acquainted with
or to cooperate with members of other clubs.
Other young people indicated that they wanted ac-
tivities besides athletics and dancing. It was clear
that they do not want to have their out—of—school
activities conducted or supervised by teachers. The
young people believe that if the newSpapers placed
half as much emphasis on wholesome activities and
the need for recreation centers as they do upon

juvenile delinquency, a great deal more good
would be accomplished.

It was the concensus of opinion in the recreation
section that youth should be given a larger share
of responsibility in developing and-carrying on

their own recreation programs.

In the discussion of education it was also brought
out that there should be a greater sharing of re-
sponsibility and also a sharing of respect for
others. Many children resent the lack of tolerance
on the part of their parents and teachers with ref-
erence to other racial and religious groups.

It was pointed out that the death rate is lowest
among ten—thirteen year olds but that there is a
marked rise in the rate among the later teen group.
A big jump in the percentage of admissions to
mental hospitals is found in the fifteen—seventeen
year group: In the section on religion it was indi-
cated that young people want three types of op—
portunities—to do service they feel is important,
to do things with other young people especially of
the Opposite sex, and to work together regardless
of racial, religious, or social lines. The churches
should provide more recreation facilities if a study
discloses that these are needed in the neighbor—
hood.

Throughout the meeting it was made clear that
the community must be more concerned about
what young people want, need, feel, and think.

Richer Lives for the Elderly

(Continued from page 261)

Special outings should be planned for the group:
such as going to the museum, the public library,
historical sites, fashion shows, concerts and cook-
ing demonstrations which never lose their fascina—
tion regardless of age.

Hobby night. This would include not only a
display of existing hobbies, but it might serve as a
source of encouragement and a means of intro-
ducing new hobby ideas to the older adult. It
might be craft hobbies, tracing genealogy, study of
the weather, photography, and so on. Another sug-
gestion is a treasure show where the older people
have an opportunity to display their rare old keep-
sakes which give them such personal pleasure.

The older adult group might hold some of their
meetings together with those who are confined in
institutions for the aged. Children could give their
dress rehearsals of plays to the older peOpIe who
are unable to get out to see them.

Some of the regular women’s'clnbs might de-
velop'a volunteer service in working with the older
adult, such as writing letters, doing shopping for
them, reading aloud, cooperating on a scrapbook

or a picture album, bringing books and new games
and just generally visiting.

RECREATION

A PRIDELIKE THING 271

t
t
t

BOYS CLUBS
CHURCHES 0

CITY RECREATION

all over the country are adopting this new way of bowling that
requires no pin-boys but is played and scored the some as
regulation bowling. Our Service men and women in comps

ond USO clubs went wild over the game!

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

OWWWQ @@W@

i
i

In this whole program Of recreation for older
adults, the executive should try to make them a
part Of the regular programs, and in addition plan
for their own special activities. These people
should not be made to feel that they are a separate
old-age group. Rather, they shouldbe given the
'feeling that they are an integral part Of the pro-
gram and “belong” as does any other group.

A Pridelike Thing

(Continued from page 237,).
ing strength that is America, and the parts played
in that development by- many creeds and many
races. It uses for its purpose many of the com-
munications arts‘-——the Speech arts, the art Of mime,

'the arts of music and dance. It stresses simplicity

AUGUST 1945

 

Y.M.C.A's and Y.W.C.A's o
SERVICE CENTERS

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY m»

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828 0

SCHOOLS
o FRATERN AL ORGANIZATIONS

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
ll4 East 32nd Street. New Yorlt

Gentlemen: W’e are interested in your new
Two—Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

Name ............................ ..

 

NEW YORK. N. Y. .

QWWMQWQWMOMQOWQQ‘OQ a

of production—a “space stage” with drapes for
scenery, simple costumes, few properties. The
script and the cast are the important factors.

The cast is large. It works from the stage, from
the backstage, from the auditorium. The key
figure in the cast reads a dramatic poem which
brings the final act to a triumphant conclusion.
This person is chosen with consummate care, for
he or she must have the ability to “read” lines in
such a way that the audience is swung up and out
of themselves into the vision that lies in the poetry.
The key figure has been for example, a doctor of
philosophy (cOstumed in his academic robes), a
barber, a woman whose job was working with
underprivileged girls. Station in life, color, creed,
sent, age—none of these 'are important 'in the choice

272 PULLING STRINGS

of the lead. It is only important that the job be
well and truly done.

Evaluation

The production wherever it has been done, has
been successful—not only as a dramatic perform-
ance of high standard but as an emotional and in-
tellectual experience for the people who partici—
pated in it. In one community Miss \Valker was
told, “You can not do that here. Tensions between
different groups of the population are too high.
They will not work together.” The speaker was
wrong. The groups (lid work together. They
learned to know about each other, to like and
respect each other, to recognize special contribu-
tions that each segment of the community could
make.

For this is the corollary to the primary objective
of the production. Miss Walker seeks to use vari—
ous phases of the script to demonstrate to each
element in the town the nature of its contribution
to the cultural pattern of the country. Thus, in
one community, a group of eight young colored
women expressing in dance an African poem of
sorrow, learned something of the emotional set-up
that their ancestors brought to this country, of the
rhythm and melody that were their birthright to
enjoy and to cherish. So, also, a Jewish woman,
centrally featured in a ceremonial candle lighting.
saw with new clarity how this ritual of her faith
and the emphases upon the strength in family fos-
tered by her people, had become a part of the pat-
tern of the community. Each group develops its
own pridelike thing, and all these prides combine
to make an America that is still growing towards
a goal which it set itself in its beginnings.

One community leader sums up the values of
the production to her community as follows:

“The production demonstrates . . . the great
flexibility of a recreation program and the vast
scope of cultural resources in a community that
can be corraled and used through the medium of

recreation.

“In this particular cast (consisting of. more than
two hundred persons) we were able to bring to-
gether minister, teacher, college students, business
executives, school children and people represent-
ing jewish, Protestant, Greek, Italian, and Negro

citizens all in one line concerted effort which dig-

nified the contribution and place of each in his

community. . . .
"‘From this working together of various groups
and demonstrations has grown a definite positive

feeling of high regard for and proper valuation of
minority groups in our city.”

Pulling Strings
(Continued from 15099240)

reasonable time, the fun will not be lost before the
project is complete, and the youngsters will not
become discouraged.

A small craft room in the attic or_ basement at

home, a room where a few inexpensive tools and

materials are kept, will solve for the child the
problem of “\Vhat can I do ?” on many rainy days
and long winter afternoons. In this little shop a
marionette project can be worked out with mother,
father, older brother, or sister lending a hand when
it is needed. The child should be encouraged to
choose a simple fairy play to dramatize. ‘l but
the most important characters should be elitfh ated.
Or, if it seems easier, the child may choose a story
which has already been adapted for the miniature
stage. Such a play should not have more than
three to live characters. If it runs to more “actors”
it is probable that the story is too complicated for
a first attempt.

The stage planned for the little actors should be
small, for they are no more than fourteen or six-
teen inches tall. It can be simple or elaborate. The
marionettes may be the simple stuffed cloth variety.
Or the hands, feet, and head may be made from a
pliable wood product or a homemade mixture of
sawdust. cooked flour and water paste, and a pre—
servative. Or the most important parts may be
carved from soft wood. There are many helpful
books of instruction on the craft of marionette
making any one of which will assist you in a new
and fascinating venture.

When the marionette is assembled and a coat of
shellac and paint applied; when the costume is
made and the few strings which are absolutely es-
sential strung to the control bar, the youngster
will be amazed at what has been accomplished. It
is, then. but a short step to the thrill of putting
the small actor on his miniature stage and pre-
senting the play for the neighbors or the children
at school.

A summer marionette class, carried on as a part
of a city-wide recreation program during the sum-
mer vacation months, has proven both popular and
worthwhile in our community. The children in the
marionette class enjoy it, and all of the children
attending the playground look forward eagerly to
the shows which they know will be given at the end

RECREATION

THEATER SCHOOL FOR CHILDREN 273

Memories

WELVE ARMY JUDGES, after reading 300 entries
T in an essay contest conducted by the “far De-
partment on the subject, “\Vhy I Fight,” selected
three winners, all from New York City. First
prize went to Corporal Jack J. Zurofsky of Brook—
lyn. Time .lIagusiuc quotes the following excerpts
from Corporal Zurofsky’s essay:

“I fight because of my memoriesw—the laughter
and play of childhood, the ball games I was in,
the better ones I watched, my mother telling me
why my father and she came to America, my
high school graduation, the first time I saw a
cow, the first year we could afford a vacation,
the crib at Camp Surprise Lake after the crowded
polluted Coney Island waters, hikes in the fall,
weenie and marshmallow roasts. the hrst time I
voted. my first date and the slap in the face I
got instead of the kiss 1 attempted, the El going
down, streets being widened to let the sun in,
new tenements replacing the old slums, the
crowd applauding the time I came through with
the hit that won us the Borough championship—
the memories which, if people like me do not
fight. our children will never have.”

of the six-weeks’ period. Each morning from 9 :00
to 12:00 the children enrolled in the marionette
class work diligently in a small basement room of
one of the public school buildings. They make
marionettes, scenery, and properties for the plays
they have chosen to give. Each child picks out
his character from the play or plays selected for
production. Each child makes, dresses. and strings
his actor. W hen this is done, more or less quickly,
the youngster is free to choose between painting
scenery on large strips of muslin or making any
property or other equipment needed for the final
presentation. When all is done rehearsals begin.
Each child is assigned a part. either speaking for
his own marionette and manipulating it, if he
wishes to. or managing some other phase of the
show such as the music, stage settings, lighting,
etc., if he prefers. Five or six days will usually
be ample time for rehearsing, providing the chil-
dren have been given the opportunity before re-
hearsals begin, to learn how to pull the strings on
a few completed marionettes lent by the teacher or
by children who have previously attended the
class. Then as a reward for the many hours of
preparation the children, their small stage, and?

4.

AUGUST 1945'

their marionettes are taken to the playgrounds
throughout the city to show their friends what they
have been learning to do. A happier experience
cannot be imagined.

Another interesting project in our community
has been a marionette club which has met at the
Junior High school twice a week after school
hours during the current school year. Here a group
of twenty boys and girls have been introduced to
the art of marionette making, following much the
same procedure as outlined for the Summer Art
Studio class. It has proved a timely activity. It
has kept occupied after school hours, children
whose parents are working.

If you are one who has enjoyed seeing a play,
and there are few who have not, either in the
movies or on the regular stage, try making and
giving your own marionette shows and you will
say with the rest of us, “I have never had so
much fun.”

Theater School for Children

(Continued from page 231)

schools, at least two principals, and several teach-
ers are very active members of the board. One
teacher in each grade school in the city volunteered
to take charge of publicity, art work, and selling
tickets to the children in her school, so it is pos-
sible to know in advance just about how 'many
children to expect from each school. The teacher
also sees that a synopsis of each play is read to all
children in the appropriate age group. She helps
the Arts Committee conduct an exhibit of original
art work done by the school children in connection
with each play. The best pieces of work from each
grade are hung in the lobby of the high school and
attract a great deal of attention before and after
each performance. A prize is given for the best
piece of work from each grade.

The theater is entering its fourth season. Each
year it grows more a part of the community, and
those responsible for it feel that never was an
activity of this kind more needed or more worth—
while than now.

Although the Negro schools have had to aban-
don underwriting the performance for Negro chil-
dren, as had been done for the first few years, the
performances for these children have continued

_ under the auspices of the theater group and have

been well attended. Always the Negro children
make an appreciative audience and are a delight
to the cast.

274 NEH" YORK HOLDS .4 DRAMA FESTIVAL

The war years have brought difliculties to this
organization as well as to its participants. Trans—
portation difficulties, lack of leisure time, pressure
on teachers and children alike, have all presented
real problems. It is a tribute both to the value
of its undertaking and to the quality of its leader—

ship that this Community Childrenis Theater has
weathered the storm, solvent and-enthusiastic.

New York Holds a‘Drama Festival
(Continm'd from page 247)

(ll) Complimentary tickets were to be distributed at
the discretion of the committee.

(l2) All public high schools were to -be circularized in
an effort to arouse interest in the festival and to
sell tickets.

(13) All unsold tickets were to be returned two weeks
before the festival.

(14) The sponsoring associations were to be financially

responsible in case the festival did not cover
expenses.

(15) Publicity of a dignified sort was to be sought.

(10) The proceeds were to be donated for the reha-
bilitation of speech-handicapped war veterans.

(17) The Central High School of Needle Trades was
chOsen as the place for the festival, since it was
centrally located and since it offered the following
facilities: seating capacity, 1,582; stage, 40'x20';
complete switchboard with dimmers; two micro-
prones for radio and sound effects; two dressing
rooms offstage, with lavatories and lockers: two
door and window flats; good acoustics; inexpen-
sive runnning costs.

(18) All eighty-four schools were to be notified of the
decisions of the meeting, and were to be invited to

participate. Entry blanks were to be sent to each.
i to be returned by March 3|.

(19) Each school was to Submit a copy of its script to
the committee with its entry blank.

(20) The committee was to set up the program for the
performances. to arrange for dress rehearsal time

at Central Needle Trades, and to notify the para-u

ticipating schools of ‘both schedules.

Thus were the major policies determined right
at the start. The rest of the plan fell into line in
accordance with this set-up. Twelve schools re—
turned entry blanks. The types of play and the
running time determined each school’s place on the
program. Three performances of four plays each
was considered the best arrangement by the com-
mittee. Friday evening, June 2nd, and Saturday

afternoon and evening, June 3rd, were the dates I

chosen. It was important that the performances
not conflict with the presentation dates of varsity

shows in the various schools. and t'hatfxtb‘e. festival

be held sufficiently in advance of state examina—
tions to avoid interfering with studies.

The details of arranging for the auditorium, of
the printing of tickets and programs and of their
distribution, of the appointment of stage managers,
house manager. business manager, and publicity
manager, can be dispensed with here. Sutlice it to
say that the festival was held as scheduled. the
planning having entailed only one general meeting
and three committee meetings. ‘

No one had seen the festival as a whole before
its presentation, yet everything went off smoothly.
In rehearsal it was found that some of the plays
required a longer time for setting the stage than
was originally planned. so schools switched places
on their‘individual programs. Nothing of major
importance arose since all difficulties had been
foreseen and planned for. The Saturday evening
running time schedule is indicative of what went
on:

8 :40 Opening procedure
3:43-9:15 New Utrecht High School, Queens

9:20-9:40 Metropolitan: Vocational High School,
Manhattan

9 :40-9 :48 Intermission
9:48-10:28 Flushing High School. Queens

10:32—11:00 Christopher Columbus High School.
Bronx

The following plays were given (note the variety
of types and styles) :

"The Still Alarm"———George S. Kaufman

“John Doe"—Bernard Victor Dryer

“The Neighbors"——Zona Gale

"He Ain't Done Right by Nell"———\v\’ilbur llraun

“The Stolen 1’rince”—-—Dan Totberoh

"A \Vorld Elsewhere"—r—l..ynn Riggs

"\Vhite Orchid"———Ira W'iener

“The Nine Lives of Emily"——John Kirkpatrick

“Sammy and the Gremlins"——-]erry Philips

“Let Me Cotue Back”-——_]'ean M. Byers

“The Florist Shop”-*—\Vinifred Mawkridge

“The Princess Marries the Page"——-Edna St.
Vincent Millay

The committee is pleased to report that the fes—
tival served its purposes, and that the ledger showed
a profit which was turned over for the rehabilita—
tion of speech-handicapped war veterans, accord-
ing to plan. New York was able to take a drama
festival after all. And if the complex New York
City education system can produce one, no other

city need hesitate to say, “On with the show !"

H— Reprinted-by permission from Schoof Activities.
November 1944.4

RECREATION

O

SHEBO li'GAN’S COMMUNITY PLAYERS

Sheboygan's Community
Players

THE COMINTL'NITY PLAYERS of Sheboygan, \\'is-
consin, sponsored by the Department of Pub-
lic Recreation of the Board of Education, are en—
joying their tenth anniversary this year. In Spite
of wartime difficulties the Players have given Splen-
did performances and membership has risen to
2,100, the highest in the history of the organiza—
tion. 1 ‘

Membership. either active or inactive, involves a
cost of $1.80 for adults and $1.20 for students.
Active members participate in productions, com-
mittee work and similar activities. while inactive
members have the opportunity of attending one-
act play nights and major productions. Three
major productions and three theater nights were
scheduled for the 1944—1945 season.

“Tomorrow the \Vorld" was presented in Feb-
ruary 1945. Richard S. Davis, drama critic of the
Milwaukee Journal. who attended the performance.
wrote enthusiastically about it in his column.
Among other things Mr. Davis said:

“The lirst audience—the drama will be repeated
Wednesday and Thursday nights—was altogether
delighted with 'Tomorrow the World.’ The audi-
torium of the handsome and new North High
School held something like 900 spectators, and the
word is that there will be just as many for the
other performances. The canny management has
been giving tickets to purchasers of \\'ar Bonds.-

“This is the tenth anniversary year for the Com—
munity Players. They are now directed by Miss
Lynne Nuernberg of the Central High School, a
young woman who seems to understand fully what
line things can be accomplished if there is willing-
ness to work. . . .

“In May the Community Players will be doing
‘Claudia’ on the bright and modern stage at their

disposal. If'you happen to be out Sheboygan way
it will pay you to look in.”

 

 

London Celebrates V-E Day

(Continued from page 238)
be worked for, that there must be give and take.

Somehow it must come right in the end.
Otherwise life goes along in the usual way.
Donne is loving school, especially the music but
it’s too soon to know whether his ability will match
his boundless enthusiasm. The twins are proper
hoodlums, the Yankee very much in evidence in

contrast to many of their more reserved 'an'd_ladv-'

AUGUST 1945

[\J
\J
U].

  
 
 
 
 
 
    

Hut]: \alitmal rnaulalion “hardball” and
"st-Illiall" Isaac-a are uaud aa thu- alamlard
in man) leagues llld rau'rvllional depart-
ments. Guaranteed to ghe lung ulaving
satisfaction. Natiunal patents-d rn enile
solllnall base-a hau- m-oum extremely
nn'mlur. H' fit! for complete Ila-lofts.

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CWCI).

It a ("4.- ‘Nf’ 3"

like friends. There are times I despair at their
vigorous. untamable exuberance.

I'm spending the next waiting months in an
orgy of painting and gardening, trying to cover the
lapses of years and have all gay and shining “for
Daddy." But with three milling, eager-to—help
youngsters and the usual routines, it's an uphill
job . . . but fun withall—we'd gone so shabby. and
every little bit we do rejuvenates us no end!

There are outings to the local holiday fair, merry-
go-rounds, and other amusements. Next week sev-
eral of us are taking our children to see a sub—
marine moored at Westminster Bridge, and Donne
can see that and Big Ben (its strike precedes the
9 1*. M. news) and the houses of Parliament, the
Thames. and the river boats. So it goes—in little
pleasant ways.

Fit for .a King
(Comimtcd from page 259)

tion of J. M. Heathcote, amateur tennis champion,
balls covered with white flannel were substituted
for the uncovered balls used at first. In 1887 the
code of laws was revamped and the modern rec-
tangular court became official.

In the United States lawn tennis was played at
Nahant, near Boston, within a year of its inven-
tion in England. Dr. James Dwight and the Sears
brothers helped to make it known. In 1881, at a
meeting in New York of representatives of the
thirty-three clubs in the United States, the United
States National Lawn Tennis Association was
formed and the adoption of English rules settled
arguments over the size of ball to be used and the
height of the net.

Today tennis, a sport of royal and pretentious
background, has been so universally (lemocratized
that its p0pularity is superceded by few sports.
Whether the player is a ten year old boy batting a
ball against the woodshed. or a professional serv-
ing aces to a skilled opponent, the enthusiasm is
just as intense and the pleasure ust as great. Ten-
nis truly‘has‘cOme to'.'he a game of all the peolile.

276 NEW PLANS IN OLD COMMUNITIES

New Plans in Old Communities
(Continued from page 243)

Other types of cooperation have included visual
education facilities from the county film library.
immunizations by the health department. health
instruction by the Tuberculosis Association. handi-
craft teaching by the local chapter of the Red Cross
in return for which the children made articles for
army camp and hospital groups. The playgrounds
have conducted paper salvage drives in cooperation
with local salvage authorities. In two communities,
playgrounds and local churches cooperated in con-
ducting Daily Vacation Bible Schools with mutual
benefit.

The Firemen's Association cooperated in run-
ning a baseball and softball league for older men.
This year the service clubs have been asked to give
awards to winning teams. The American Legion
will sponsor a county—wide baseball team. It will
also present a flag to each playground. These are
only a few of the many cooperating groups.

The cooperation of the schools cannot be stressed
too much. They are now furnishing general super-
vision. Likewise all the playgrounds but two are
on school property. School rooms and auditoriums
are used as well as the 0111(l00r play space. Damage
to school property is said to be practically nil. 0n
the other hand. school play facilities have been
improved and considerable equipment has been
added which can be used throughout theschool
year as well as in the summer program.

The Individual Accepts Responsibility

Important as the c00peration of schools and
organizations may he, the interest and untiring
efforts of individual citizens are basic in this pro-
gram. They have made equipment. They have
furnished hours of leadership and supervision.
They have improved play space. In one instance,
they actually “hewed a playground out of the wil-
derness.” This- is on property acquired for a new
Negro school but not yet improved. With hand
tools, and a bulldomr borrowed for the purpose,
they have cleared trees and underbrush and have
created a picnic spot and playground enjoyed by
the entire colored community.

The young people have had a hand in planning
and working as well as in playing. They are mem-
bers of local committees. Each playground director
has a committee of participants to help plan the
program. Though the young people have been very
active in planning all programs, they have been

especially active in the teen-age canteens. 1n the
four communities where these have carried on
through the winter, the youngsters have carried all
the responsibility. Their elders have furnished only
supervision. The activities of the canteens have
consisted largely in weekend programs in the
schools. Inquiries from local night clubs as to the
absence of the high school group from these spots
speak eloquently for the success of this program.

County Association Supplements——
Does Not Supplant

The County Association looks forward to co-
ordinating programs. to equalizing opportunity for
getting equipment, to finding and training person-
nel, to seeing the over-all picture and making sure
that less enterprising communities are prodded
into activity. It will. in no sense, replace the local
sponsoring groups. In fact a community cannot
come into the association until it has a sponsoring
group that applies for membership. Responsibility
remains where it belongs—with the people whose
lives are affected by the program.

Out of the Tiger's Den Into the

"Show Business"

(Continued from page 248)

around them. The cast was assembled with no
trouble at all and the show weht into rehearsal.
Without thinking twice about it these boys and
girls had done what few adult groups would have
had the courage even to consider.

The musical was presented twice for Hacketts-
town audiences, people whose enthusiasm knew no
bounds. A medical officer on leave from Camp
Kilmer was in the audience. He suggested that
the show be taken to the Camp and presented for
the boys in training there. The local Red Cross
Motor Corps provided transportation for east,
stage crews, scenery, and prOperties, and Hay,
Hay, What Say? was presented twice at Camp
Kilmer—once for boys in the hospital, a second
time in the Service Club on the Post for the (315
who were well.

()n all counts the show was a success. The par-
ticipants had the satisfaction of knowing they had
done a creative job very well. the audience had a
good time, the club treasurer had enough money
to buy the public address system plus a nest egg
for a stage at the Center, the GIs had an evening’s
entertainment. As a recreation project Hay, Hay,
I Vhat Seyf'left nothing to be desired.

RECREATION

TOWARD A COMMUNITY THEATER: A LONG-RANGE VIEW 277

Toward a Community Theater:
A Long—Range View

(Continued from page 236)

licity were chosen at the same time—all in the best
parliamentary procedure.

Early in October the program for the 1944-45
season got under way with “advanced” classes for
the old troupers and a new beginner’s class to act
as a feeder group and to keep the interest alive
and vital. A full-scale production was planned for
January 1945 and to this end the fall weeks were
full of preparation.

The whole program has been geared toward
deve10ping outlets for the creative energies of chil—
dren who act as easily as they walk and talk.
Prohciency in acting has not been emphasized at
the expense of other skills of the theater. Rather,
the attention of the children is directed toward the
creative opportunities inherent in costume design—
ing and making, in set (lfsigning and construction,
in lighting a stage for visibility and “effects,” in
make-up and all the other details of play produc-
tion. Therefore, regular class work in these phases
of drama is a part of the course of study. When
these boys and girls go on to form or to become
part of an adult theater group they will know
already both the importance and the creative satis-
faction of working behind the scenes. They will,
literally as well as figuratively, “know the ropes.”
Nor has the business angle of producing a play
been overlooked. Training in such essential mat-
ters as program and ticket printing, sale of tickets,
and promotion is a large part of the course. Crea-
tive play writing has been added to the lures of

theater, for in 1944 the youngsters wrote and pro—
duced their own play.

Austin has no worm's-eye-view of drama. They
are planning wisely and well for a future of hope
and achievement. For these youngsters are getting
training that will enable them to see the problem
of producing a play as “all of a piece.” As actors
they will have respect for the work of designers
and crews and as crew members they will under—
stand the needs and the problems of actors for all
of them will have experienced all the parts of
putting on a show. This opportunity for develop-
ment in all the creative arts of the drama should,
surely, result in a program of community drama

of fine, wide proportions for the future city of
Austin.

AUGUST 1945

Dramatic Arts Festivals for Tomorrow

(Continued from page 246)

10. planned visits to professional theater (wherever pos—
sible), or specially arranged performances of some
outstanding local little theater

11 specially invited speakers

Obviously, every program should not (and can-
not) include all of the above-mentioned features,
but it should vary according to the demand and
interests of the visiting groups. It seems to me
that while various colleges in the same area could
divide between themselves the burden of sponsor—
ing drama festivals from year to year, they can,
at the same time, try out various ways of managing
a festival (no mean achievement in itself), and
also arrange for a special drama festival for col-
leges. These collegiate festivals can and will serve
as an incentive for the secondary schools. They
will also offer opportunities for comparison in vari-
ous techniques and will help to break down the
barriers between different colleges by making their
students aware of the work being done elsewhere.
It will also give the prospective teacher of drama
a chance to try out his ideas and knowledge and
acquire experience.

The various possibilities for dramatic study that
offer themselves through the medium of drama
festivals are almost unlimited. It makes me giddy
to think how much can be accomplished if in the
postwar era everyone will pitch in and help to
build a new pattern, a new attitude and under-
standing. VVe will have to deal with new audi-
ences, and we will have new actors. To accomplish
all that is expected of us we must prepare our
plans now. \Ve will have to scrap a great deal of
the old and reach far and wide into the future.
A new day is coming and we must meet it con-
fidently and in full awareness of the demands of

t011101'1'0W.-—Reprinted by permission from Dramatics,

published by the National Thespian Society, College Hill
Station, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Cultural Values in War Time

(Continued from page 263)

music filled the air—in spite of the morrow’s
battle.

And our youth’s decision was made. It was the
army that could sing that must be his, for it was
the army that still had a song to sing that must be
in the right and it, too, must be victorious in
the end.

A phantasy, yes—and also a parable l—Music
Clubs Magazine, March-April, 1942. '

278 GOLD ON TREASURE ISLAND

Gold on Treasure Island
(Continued from page 257)
for the first time, she had found the opportunity to
learn to paint. You hear that she is doing a fine
job.

You look into the library. You don’t dare do
much more because all the chairs are filled with
men and women in blue. You don’t want to dis-
turb their reading. The librarian comes outside to
talk to you. She tells you that the library is Open
from 9 A. M. to 9 e. M., that it can accommodate
500 people at one time. You have seen for yourself
that it is a beautiful place, well arranged and spa-
cious. You ask about the kinds of books. She tells
you that there are books of law and medicine, agri-
culture, modern housing, psychology, hobbies, vo-
cations, and avocations. There are technical books
and books of humor and cartoons and 5,000 books
of fiction. You are not surprised to learn that the
favorite author is Zane Grey. You wonder what is
done about new publications and you find that all
requests are filled if it is humanly possible. The
librarian has to go back to help a boy who wants
information on mushrooms.

You go along to another door and find yourself
in a room of telephones. The room, you learn, was
equipped and furnished by the telephone company.
It is open twenty—four hours a day. Most of the
time telephone operators are on duty. They are
efiicient and courteous. Their chief duty is to help
men and women with long distance calls. They
tell you that the first thing most of the boys want
when they come back from overseas is to telephone
their families. You think of the stories you have
heard of the understanding help Operators have
given, and you are glad that this room is there.

You leave the service center and look in on the
swimming pools and gymnasiums. You are inter-
ested in the special combat tank. You talk to one
of the instructors, a world famous swimmer. He
tells you that here the men are taught how to swim
and dive. They learn to abandon ship, to fight in
the water, the best life-saving techniques. The in-
structor tells you that he and the other instructors
have long sessions with men who have been tor-
pedoed. Theory is corrected from the lessons of
practical experience. As you finish your talk and
prepare to move on, he asks whether you have
seen the Hostess House.

You follow the directions he gives you and come
to a place where warmth and friendliness spell
home. You stand near the wood fireblazin’g on an

overrsize hearth and listen to_ the quiet music of
records filling the room. You share the refresh-
ments served, as usual, at eight o'clock. You learn:
that sailors like to help in the kitchen at one end
of the lounge. It reminds them of home.

The director takes you in hand and shows you
the pleasant rooms set aside for the immediate
relatives of Navy men and women who come in an
emergency. You see that one room has a crib and'
a baby bed as part of its furniture, and you think
of the women who must have been grateful for this
kind of foresight. The director tells you of some
of the things she has to do—of buying for the men
materials for draperies and women's hats; of
spending half an hour on a sunny afternoon talk-
ing with patients from the hospital who are taking
advantage of the beautifully landscaped grounds
of the House.

As you say good night, you think that there is
still gold on Treasure Island.

—Written from material supplied by Carl S. Jackson,
CY, USNR.

Drama from the Ground Up

(Continued from page 234)

face allowing a center triangle to be cut right out
so that the child’s eyes, nose and mouth are un-
covered. It is, obviously, important for small chil-
dren to be able to see clearly and at all times and
in all directions! Since the masks are oversize, the
character’s features can be painted above the cut-
out triangle. Masks are cut in two profile sections
and fastened together with brass paper fasteners.

Values

This, of course, is only one of a number of ex-
periments in making plays from the ground up.
Any leader must, obviously, work out techniques
suitable to her own personality, her own training.
and the specific needs of the group she leads.
Some groups may prefer to start with their own
experiences rather than with a book. It is proba-
bly wise to start very simply at the beginning of
such a program, working gradually into a sus-
tained piece of dramatization. The essential point
is that dramatics as a group experience starting
with putting well understood material into dra-
matic form and having as its aim the development
of the youngsters rather than the presentation of a
play is well worth the doing.’ Imagination, pa-
tience, and the determination to keep dramatic
standards high are the necessary components of a
successful project. The youngster will do the rest!

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 279

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of 1
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1945

Coeducationa'l Camping and Hiking, H. B. Hunsaker
and Rachael B. Yocom

Dual Goal, Arley M, Stout
Recreation Is State Business, Harold J. Weekley and
Stewart Woodward

Beach and Pool, April 1945

Swimming Pools for Smaller Communities, Wilmer
O. Held

First Aid for Your Pool Problems

The Camping Magazine, April 1945
A Preview of Camping—1945, Wes Klusmann
Camping and Municipal Agencies, Reynold E. Carlson

Parents’ Magazine, June 1945

What Will War Do to the Family, Mark A. Mc-
C'loskey ‘

\Ve Celebrate the Fourth, Jane Porter
A Homemade Brook is Fun, Robert Sparks \Valker

Channels, April-May 1945

Entire issue devoted to use of motion pictures in
public education. ‘

Wisconsin Municipality, June 1945

Recreation-#A Resource of Good Living, Chester A.
Carlson

PAMPHLETS

Making Over Our Home Town

Program Service, The Reader’s Digest, Pleasantville,
' N. Y.

Building the Future for Children and Youth,

Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor,
\Vashington 25, D. C.

Hand Craft . ’

Playground and'Recreation Commission, Room 601,
City Hall, Cedar Rapids, Iowa

The Arts and Children’s Living

Association for Childhood Education, 1201.: Sixteenth
Street, N.W., Washington 6, D. C. $.35

Deficiency of Recreational Sports and Athletic Supplies

Prepared by Milo FL Christiansen, Society of Recre-
ation \Vorkers of America, 3149 Sixteenth Street,
N.\V., \Vashington, D. C.

Juvenile Court Statistics, 1944 \

Preliminary Statement, Children’s Bureau, U. S. De-
partment of Labor, Washington 215,31), Cu

AUGUST 1945

Write 'Em and Reap: the Sega of Maud

(Continued from page 229)

trees in the swaying rhythm of branches in the
wind. “lords and line-lengths are tailored to fit
the rhythm. . . .

Stories. As we know only too well, storytelling
seems to “come natural” to children. In our own
story hour at Lenox Hill House, we found that
while our children’s yarns are centered around the
heroes, villains, and localities of big city life, they
could match Mr. Andersen and the Brothers
Grimm blow for blow. One particularly harrow—
ing ghost story ended with, “And I walked up the
steps where the light was coming from, and there
I was at the subway station on Lexington Avenue
and Sixty-eighth Street.”

The danger, of course, in letting children run
wild with their stories is that they crib from movies
and funny books. One way to set a standard in a
storytelling group is to have the group vote for
the best stories—those selected to be written down
and included in a scrapbook.

The summer outdoor program, especially if it
includes evenings around a campfire is fertile field
for tall tales and legends. Every patch of woods,
even if it is in Cehtral Park, can have its own Paul
Bunyan, and every little slope that calls itself a hill
can have its own peculiar fauna—like the side-hill
wheeler. (You know. The snake flattened on one
side so it can go around a mountain comfortably.)
One way to stimulate these legends is simply to
read some of'the old ones with the group. (Highly
recommended—A Treasury of American Folklore,
edited by 'E. A. Botkin, Crown Publishers.)

In one camp a group made a legendary giant
who lived on the mountain ridge opposite the camp.
The tales of his doings _spread like wildfire and be-
fore the blaze could be extinguished every group
in camp had made up a part of the legend. And so

they all had to get together one day to dramatize
their own versions.

And Now, in Parting . . .

Ah, Maud. Let us hOpe that the black bat has
flown a little distance away at any rate. But,
please, Maud, don’t take us too seriously. Don’t
take any part of the creative writing program too
seriously. For, no matter how sincerely earnest
you are, if you lose your sense of proportidn you
will become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cym-
bal. In other words, your people will scoot ink in

your face and run out in the street to play stick ball.
-—-Reprinted by permission from Round Table, April 1945.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

They See for Themselves

By Spencer Brown. Harper and Bros., New York. $2.00.
THEY SEE FOR THEMSELVES is a report on an experi-

ment. The experiment was conducted in five high
schools in New York City and in six high schools in
\Vestchester County in 1940 and 1941. The subject was
intercultural education. The method was the democratic
procedure of fact-finding, discussion, cooperation. The
outcome was a group Of documentary plays. The report
should 'be a valuable guide tO anyone interested in the
method or in the outcomes. The appendix tO the book
contains three living newspaper type plays produced by
high school groups which may well serve as models for
anyone interested in this type Of drama.

Camping for Crippled Children

By Henry H. Hewett. National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults, Inc., Elyria, O'hiO.

HIS BOOK is a compilation of articles written by the
members Of the committee on camping Of the National
Society for Crippled Children and Adults. It‘ is designed
tO set forth “the philosophy and procedure in camping for
handicapped children" and deals, among other things, with

such problems as selecting the camp site, planning the

program, food, and personnel.

Sing and Dance

By Beatrice A. Hunt and Harry Robert Wilson. Hall
and McCreary Co., Chicago, Ill. $1.25.

ERE IS A PRACTICAL BOOK Of singing games complete

with words, music, and directions. In addition tO
many well-known and well-loved games and dances! from
the American scene there are interesting examples from
abroad—from Norway, Germany, Mexico, France. the
British Isles, Denmark, and Czechoslovakia. The book is
one which will add variety and interest to programs of
singing games and folk dances.

The First Book of Model Aircraft

By Richard Chick. The Studio, New York, N. Y. $1.00.
FROM THE STUDIO’S “Make It Yourself” series comes a

book on making model airplanes from scrap materials.
Templates and full directions for assembling the parts
are given for five airplane types that, by now, are all too
familiar by name to the layman. Sections on tOOls and
how tO use them and on materials make this, like so many
Of the Studio publication's, essentially a “usable” book.

Planning Your Community

By C. Earl Morrow. Regional Plan Association, Inc.,
New York, N. Y. $.50.

PERHAPS THE BEST INDICATION Of the nature Of this
forward-looking booklet are the section headings in
the table of contents. These are Why Plan?, How to
Organize, How to Plan, and Carrying Out the Plan.
Charts and a classified bibliography addtO the value Of

the booklet.

280

Selected Source Material in Industrial

and General Recreation

By George W. Han-iford, E. Patricia Hagman, and Floyd
R. Eastwood. Division Of Physical Education for Men,
Purdue University. Obtainable from Southworth’s
Purdue Book Store, 308 State Street, West Lafayette,
Indiana. $.50.

APPROXIMATELY 1,000 REFERENCES on physical, cultural,

social, and outing activities are listed in this booklet
which covers annotated articles, inexpensive materials,
books, bibliographies, and‘reference magazines. The
method Of classification of the material adds tO the
practical value Of the booklet for the recreation worker
whether in the industrial field or in the field Of general

recreation.

The Story of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation

United States Department Of Justice, \Vashington, D. C.
HE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION Of the United
States Department of Justice has published a report

whose purpose is “to acquaint the youth Of America with

the work Of the F Bl.” The report states in interesting
form the story Of the founding and development Of the

FBI and Of some Of its spectacular successes. It is available

free from the Federal Bureau Of Investigation in Wash-

ington and might well prove an interesting addition tO the
library Of any recreation center or playground.

 

 

Officers and Directors Of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of lhe Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUanR, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President .
MR5. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LER, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board

GvsrAvus T. KIRBv, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New Y0rk, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MR5. ROBERT Wooos Buss, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUanR, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORRRTT, Portland, Ore.

MR5. ARTHUR G. CUMMER,JaCk50nVi1iC, Fla.
MR5. THOMAS A. Emsou, \Vest Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AusTrN E. GRurtTns, Seattle, Wash.

Mas. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MR5. M ELVILLE H. HASRELL. Tucson, Ariz.
MR5. CHARLRs V. chxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MR5. Jonu D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVL's T. KIRBY, New York. N. Y.

11. MCK. LAROOR, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

One 'I‘. MALLERv, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARLI-I.MILI.1RER, Augusta. Me.

MR5. OOORR L. MILLs, Woodbury, N. Y“
MR5. SIOMURO STRRR, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FRI-zonch M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. VVIRANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOOOWARO, Washington, D. C.

