We Build

We build the world we want.

We build a world of light,

A world of beauty,

A world of dancing feet.

A world of the light-hearted,

A world of gaiety and joy and good cheer,
A world of good companions.

Who builds?
You build.

I buildf

We build.

I do not build for you.

You do not build for me.
I help you build.

You help me build.
We build for all together.

Nothing comes to you without effort.
Nothing comes to me w1thout effort.
Nothing comes to us without effort,-—--handed down from above.

Barriers that keep beauty from you I can remove.

Barriers that keep beauty from me you can remove.

You may be the keeper of the lighthouse that lights the path for me.

But equally I may be the keeper of the lighthouse that lights the
path for you.

But I must see beauty for myself with my own eyes.

You must see and hear beauty for yourself with your own
eyes and ears.

I am the keeper of my soul.

You are the keeper of your soul.

Naught of sovereignty, each of his own soul, do we surrender.

Yet together werbuild.

Yet together bit by bit we build a world.

Not a new world. -

The same old world,

With ugly barriers blocked out,

With sunlight let in,

A world of joy and understanding and comradeship.

We build together
A world that is to be simple,
A world that is to be beautiful,
A world that is to be human,
A world we can all understand,
A world of freedom,
A world that belongs to all of us,
A world of strength and gladness.
HOWARD BRAUCHER

JANUARY I945

 

505

January

 

Photo by Gustav Auden-0

506 RECREATION

 

 

Courtesy York, Pa., Recreation Commission

OES THE POSTWAR plan of your town include a
 school or two? It would, if you had ever seen
six revolutionary elementary schools at Dav-
enport, Iowa. Even if your city has fairly new,
really rather impressive schools right now, those at
Davenport would make you hurry down to the City
Council. Seeing one for the first time is a little
like a first visit to Radio City in the early thirties.
It suddenly opens up a whole new perSpective.
Each school has a “town-size” living room. Off
the living room is a completely equipped kitchen.
Near by is a gymnasium, an auditorium, and an
art or music room. These rooms are not for just
the students. They’re not available from 9 to 4.
They’re for the whole community—Your Music or
Made to Measure Club, Dad’s Handball Club or
Discussion Group. Each of these community-de—
signed rooms: living room, kitchen, gym, audi-
torium—can be entered independently of the rest
of the school. In fact the rest of the school can be
ingeniously closed off. Each of these “community”
units can even be heated independently of the
rest of the building. The word community tells
the tale. The architect who designed the buildings
was requested to plan them for community use.
During the winter of 1943, with the country re—
sounding to cries of juvenile and parental delin-
quency, Davenport’s children and parents got to-
gether socially in ways which proved enjoyable to
young and old. One of the city’s swank neighbor-
hoods, generally pictured as being up to its sun
decks in private game rooms, turned out en masse
for “family night” offered every Friday by the
PTA recreation committee and city Recreation

Department in community-designed McKinley
SchooL

JANUARY 1945

By ROBERT L. HORNEY

Director of Recreation
Board of Park Commissioners
Davenport. Iowa

Family Nights at McKinley School

Everyone from five to seventy-five is eligible to
attend these family nights at Davenport’s McKin-
ley School. There’s a different form of fun for
every age group in. the family. While Susie and
Bobby are offered two hours of movies in the
school auditorium, Mom and Dad enjoy a program
of fun in the gymnasium. And the teens aren’t
neglected. They, in fact, rate the spacious, luxur-
ious community room.

Movies for the tots and tykes begin with a half
hour of community singing under a trained leader
from the Recreation Department. After excess
childish steam is let off in this enjoyable way, the
youngsters see their Special show. It is a feature
program, complete in variety as that downtown at
the Paramount. The feature movie, which might
be a western or sea tale, is balanced with comedy.
A travelogue is often included. Occasionally there’s
a stage show, too—made up of talent drawn from
the boys and girls themselves.

With the children out 'of the way, what sort of
frivolity is offered Mom and Dad in the gym-
nasium? Activities follow the interests of the group
itself. Volleyball or table tennis are available for
those who want exercise. There are bridge and
other card games for those in the mood to relax.
Garden slides and requested horticultural lectures

507

508 WHEN FUN’S A FAMILY AFFAIR AT SCHOOL!

have proven popular. Sometimes the fun is the
mental variety. Spelling contests and _quiz pro-
grams were tried out. “But the spelling bees and
quiz programs didn’t work out as well as a lot of
other programs,” Mrs. MacLaughlin, the PTA
chairman, will tell you. “We had a lot more suc-
cessful programs than those.”

A style show by the dads was one of these star
evenings. Four natural-born clowns of the com-
munity put on a spring revue of feminine fashions
that rolled even blasé teens in the aisles. Another
hit was a mother-daughter song revue called the
Pinafore Chorus. Stars were tiny glamour—girl
third-graders and their mothers. Daughters and
mothers were dressed alike in identical snowy-
white ruffled pinafores. The act was built around a
song the third-graders had learned in school: “Can
She Bake a Cherry Pie, Billy Boy?” Such a five—
star act did this turn out to be that two other
neighborhoods requested performances. A “com-
munity talent” night proved another hit.

While the children watch their movies, and par-
ents enjoy their chosen recreation in the gym, the
teens have three choices. They may dance to the
newest recordings; they may play a variety of
games set up in the wide corridors by the Recrea-
tion Department staff, or they may enjoy the
“snacks” and soft drinks available at a portable
snack bar.

After individual groups have had about two
hours of fun, and the movies end, everyone meets
in the gym for dancing. Music is furnished by an
orchestra made up of the dads themselves. Origin-
ally one musical parent who played his way
through college—on the piano—was going to be
lone music maestro. A college friend gifted at the
violin turned up at Family Night. He was per-
suaded to add his talent. Eventual result: a seven—
piece orchestra consisting of piano, drums, banjo,
cornet, three saxophones.

Someone asked Charley Zoller, the originator of
the Dads’ Orchestra, how often the band re-
hearsed. “Oh, I guess we’ve
had a serious rehearsal
about once,” he admitted.

Fun is definitely the pass-
word at the Davenport
family nights. The orches-
tra has had such a good
time playing for the neigh-
borhood programs that it is
planning to meet during the
summer just for the fun of

"The problem of preparing America for the
fruitful use of leisure calls for adaptation of
the school system to the needs of both young
and older people. and the operation of
school buildings full time as centers of ac-
tivity. . . . We can do remarkable things with
the educational machinery we have set up it
we can place squarely before the people the
idea of creation; it we can give practical

expression to the fundamental urge to work
and to create.”——Jobn W. Studebaker.

it! A dads’ Tennis Club has also developed
through Family Nights at McKinley School.

Every week’s family night program is different.
All are planned a month in advance by a program
committee. The committee uses suggestions from
everyone as a spring-board for bright entertain-
ment ideas. There have been some excellent sug-
gestions—and lots of them, according to Mrs. Mc—
Laughlin. Evening duties are so thoroughly di—
vided that all but five per cent of those attending
usually have something to do. This division has a
fine point: N 0 one is tied down for longer than a
portion of the evening to serious duties like door
attendance, seating the children at their movies,
handling the portable snack bar for the teens’
dancing, or serving refreshments later in the com-
munity room.

When family nights first got under way—and
many people doubted their success in this particu-
lar community—an attendance of a hundred or a
hundred and fifty was predicted as being more than
satisfactory to all concerned. As it turned out,
average attendance is usually three hundred peo-
ple. Some nights have drawn six hundred.

Admission is a thin dime—paid by everyone.
Money goes to the Parent-Teacher Community
Recreation Committee. In the beginning, many
wanted a much larger admission fee, particularly
in this community. As it turned out, the ten cent
admission fee is now considered a stroke of genius.
A plump little fund has been run up by the PTA
that far exceeds fondest hopes.

And the fun all started when Mrs. F. J. Mac-
Laughlin, resourceful, energetic PTA chairman,
and her recreation committee, decided that their
goal for the year would be to bring parent and
child together more in a recreational way. They
knew the object behind the construction of the
beautiful Davenport schools. After a joint meeting
of the PTA and Recreation Department, the family
fun nights were started. I

The way the Parent—Teacher Council itself has
worked the idea out receives
tribute from the city’s Rec—
reation Department. So
capable have they proven
that the duties of the recre-
ation staff have boiled down
to furnishing facilities, set—
ting up game equipment, the
portable snack bar, and pub-
lic address system. Parents

(Continued on page 546)
RECREATION

. A
Key Apiece

In case you missed the first
installment of the story of
Webster Groves' recreation

program. we suggest you
turn to the article. "We Need

Each Other." in the July
I944 issue of RECREATION.

\-

of Webster Groves had been moving in a

FOR NINE WEEKS the women and young people
charmed circle, a creative world of crafts and

arts. For nine weeks, as hot day passed into hot
day, they had met and pooled their various skills
in daily craft classes. Now fall had come. The
Shelter at Forty Acres was deserted, battened
down and boarded up for the winter. The hand-
craft courses had ended in a blaze of glorious dis-
play of articles made by the students. The women
and young people were a little sad. a little let down.

A few of them still had work in progress; work
that, for the good of their souls, had to be finished.
These craftsmen begged to be allowed to complete
their jobs. The chairman of Community Activities
heard their cry, and soon they were meeting once
a week at Harmony House.

It could be that the Chairman’s acquiescence to
their importunities was not without malice afore-
thought! Be that as it may, out of those weekly
meetings a dream was born—a dream and a plan
to make the dream come true. The dream was a
vision of a community studio—a place where, for
a small fee, any citizen of Webster Groves could

I practice a craft or learn one; where exhibits of
’ their work could be shown and orders taken from
samples; a studio equipped for function and charm.
l Here there would be no hard and fast rules save
one, “N 0 home neglecting!” Each member would
have a key of her own, sign and symbol that she
could come and go as she liked. There would be
facilities for preparing simple meals or snacks.

lANUARY 1945

 

By J ANE HOLMAN
Chairman. Community Activities
Webster Groves. Missouri

Each member who had some special skill would
share that skill.with those who wished to learn
from her.

This was the dream, born from experience in a
summer craft class. It was not long left in the
dream state. The City Council, the Mayor, Com-
munity Activities believed in it. With their help,
and by hard work and cooperative and intelligent
planning. the Community Studio came into being.

It was opened on October 20th in what had been
an old and ueg filling station, far gone in dilapida-
tion. The city provided free labor on the really
back-breaking parts of the reconditioning job. The
women dug putty out of broken windows, painted
walls, made curtains. Furniture was hauled out of
attics and painted white. A green ping-pong table
served as color contrast and display table. Paint-
ings by local artists were hung in the small lounge.
At night candles shone through the windows to

- welcome visitors and members alike to a setting

almost Dickensesque. Visitors or “shoppers” found
a cup of coffee and “high class” though not “high
pressure” sales techniques awaiting them.

The studio is open on week days except Tues—
days, from IO A.M. to 4 P. LL; Saturdays from 10
in the morning to IO at night. Sunday afternoon
is a period when visitors can drop inand “just
look.” \Vomen and high school students make up

(Continued on~ page 556)
509

Brunswick on the Warpath

HE NAVY LANDED. We
Twere prepared. Bruns—
wick, Maine, is a lei-
surely town, a college town,
a friendly town, but the serviceman’s lirst reaction

when he got off the train was, “I’m going back-

where I came from.” This town definitely did not
cOmply with the Hollywood version of duty in the
States. The fact that Brunswick is wide—awake
didn’t show, but the men’s hrst trip to town made
them realize that at least they were not unexpected
by Brunswick and its USO.

We knew they were coming. When and how
was strictly a military secret. The question on
every lip was, “What are we going to do with
them when they get here P” Our chief problems
were limited facilities and a
meager budget. Recognizing

 

By NAN BARRY
Assistant Director. Recreation Program
United Service Organizations, Inc.
BrunswickI Maine

Town. gown. and the Navy meet at a street
dance held on the Bowdoin College Campus

our limitations, we proceeded
to ignore them. Yankee in-
genuity would have to live up
to its reputation!

Our lirst step was to form a USO executive
committee to make plans, designate responsibility,
formulate a program. On this committee were
representatives from churches, civic organizations,
clubs, unions, and schools. We wanted to forestall
any possible competitive programs which have
brought grief to some communities. The criteria
for committee membership were imagination, a
sense of humor, and a definite interest in helping
entertain servicemen. This is one of the secrets
of our success. There is no dissension among
groups. All work together because all work for
the same thing. We couldn’t
miss-—-and we didn’t.

’1‘.
\

’.
 a 3

Photo by Herr .hlman

RECREATION

 

BRUNSWICK ON THE WARP/1TH

The town came to the
fore and donated club-
rooms ——- rent free, heat
and light furnished — on
the third floor of the town
building. The location was
central—but would any—
body climb all those
stairs? During the past
year some 50,000 people
have answered that ques—
tion positively. The town
was scoured for furni-
ture. We took anything
if it was free. The result
lacked that “chintzy” look
that is so conducive to
coziness but the men
came, stayed, liked it.
Why? Because of the
Spirit in which the club
is rich. The rooms are as
friendly and casual as
any boy’s home. HOSpitality, by the way, extends
beyond the clubrooms, for the men are entertained
in many private homes.

The Brunswick USO started in October 1942,
and until February 1944 all of the work was done
by volunteers. This helped with the budget———our
second problem. All of the games, magazines, and
equipment were donated by the townspeople. We
had no canteen. The club was open in the evening
with two volunteers on hand to help entertain the
men. The Navy kept coming and what we had
wasn’t enough. Especially we didn’t have enough
money. So the community Sponsored a special
benefit dance to raise money needed to carry on
the program. Most of this money was used for
janitorial services and repairs, so that the program
was run on the proverbial shoestring for-over a
year. In fact, from October 1942 to October 1943
we worked with $603, and during this time 19,000
men were entertained.

Shortly after the rooms opened we decided that
there was a certain congeniality about food—and
besides, men are always hungry. We called on the
women, and from December 1942 to the present
sandwiches, cake, and doughnuts have been served
—all of them donated by various organizations,
not only in Brunswick but also in the surrounding
towns. That's how we can serve snacks free.

In the two years we have been operating we
have hit a few snags. Worst of all was the moment

lANUARY 1945

 

*‘.a&.' 1‘ 
1";- «u

Photo by Harry Shulmon

There's usually a group of "kibil’zers"
when the craft classes are in progress

when the fire inspector banned the USO rooms
as a fire hazard! But one of the local churches
offered its parish house as a substitute on that oc-
casion, and we moved out temporarily and carried
on. During this time our request for funds to the
national USO came’through. One of the items
included was a sum for redecoration. We killed
two birds with one stone: got rid of the fire hazard,
and acquired a “chintzy” look—and a canteen that
was more than a hot plate tucked on a 'shelf!
Until February 1944, the USO program con-
sisted of providing clubrooms where servicemen
could come, have a snack, dance a little, read,
write letters, or amuse themselves with games and
other facilities at hand. All of this work was car-
ried on by volunteers, and from the start of the
program the monthly attendance had grown from
65 to 4,481. The rooms were now open daily from
I to II P. M., and there were junior and senior
hostesses on duty at all times. Volunteers also

took care of the thousand and one details involved
in a project of this sort.

The USO program has been, from the first, a
community project; and when the first paid worker
came in February of this year, it continued as such.

(Continued on page 552)

Detroit Plans tor the Future

recreational needs is re-
flected in the improve-
ment program for the
future which envisions
spending more than
$30,000,000 for parks,
playgrounds, and other
recreation facilities. These
plans are not all postwar
projects. The far-sighted, recreation-minded
Mayor of the city, Edward J. Jeffries, Jr., has in—
sisted upon setting aside funds annually for a capi—
tal improvement program for the construction of
the most needed facilities just as soon as the build—
ing material and equipment are released without
waiting for the termination of the war.
Acquisition of land for parks and playgrounds,
further development of land now in possession,
construction of recreation centers, outdoor swim-
ming pools, refectory buildings, and music shells
in parks, are on the list.

DETROIT’S realization of its

 

By J. J. CONSIDINE

General Superintendent
Department of Parks and Recreation

The Parks and Recreation Department
of Detroit is taking a very active
part in the making of postwar plans

Most of these projects are
past the dream stage; a large
number of them have blue-
prints completed, and
work could be started
immediately if the go sig-
nal were given.

Areas to Be Improved

Land, comprising 1,290
acres, now in possession of the Department will be
developed and improved through grading and land-
scaping for park and playground purposes. The
cost is estimated at $3,799,305.

New Parks and Playgrounds

A total of 1,343 acres of land will be acquired
for park and recreation areas through condemna—
tion at a cost of $25,000,000. This will bring the
total recreation acreage in Detroit up to 6.500
acres. To develop this new land for the pleasure
of the public will cost an additional $6,500,000.

r  ‘3
5 \ I: - t

1

Courtesy Detroit News

RECREATION

DETROIT PLANS FOR THE FUTURE 513

. , ' -
t "i niu‘pg-‘riiap‘w - q? H ‘ I
r . ~ ' ‘- . kl 9% .
I ‘_ \_ 1 I H a I ‘1” . t :18; 1. fig-4+ 0‘ “pm ,m
n - .v . . » \4 a . --
. ' 0' , ‘- 5,, Z ’3  -‘<~» '
- w , 7v; ¢ . ‘1 , _ 7- - .. T, r , a

. I’L'
o gun‘wf‘n.

"we-rs. “Imp... . , , . . mm. wt .., .fc. ~
"MW-M": -' ' "‘ rm ...-X , u ' - 27”“ n “‘6‘”: u .e'
' J!” W ' 9 v - . .l .

. “W ;¢«r»....r.,..-..:.n. g3-“ ,- *. . my». _ 3
3" ‘ ‘ »:!+' r ,3 . ~ .” ..

w” 4“? ""‘"' "'""""" - - ' '53:":5a‘f'a" trimWN-a .. ,
“.31 s - x. "‘ .- "‘~:A':*'“'w~*.s -. :7 mmwwmems .-
"|"w‘b"‘wg #2.”. r, *s'i'ruttioerrmt” 2’ in". 4-. ‘IL' ’ s
, «tun-13$. 1“")‘ t 5 "t ,' h . , ,‘f'fof'aogmuam . I «L n a .4

.J- trauma-‘4. .T’f.‘3bu_‘ aw.. ~a‘4 -b '- 0‘3i\* :1. ffdxfkg'ydwum’ , ,a$9w”.ng { . t” e - .9» wb'g. , ’ y .

'NV"* "2‘ 31;... <o,°£’l4£"~"’“wl ,. -l .'. ' . g :7"; w, «7,. #33355,in Jaw r gim‘fgié n“ .r u arm! 5' J {mud q, .7 g H

- - won,“ 3(% 3:“ yi‘ . -S‘r
p -l w...) H, ‘4 aw i: 4 ,- an" I
i " v i i ‘ Try-t1 r u ’ "JEMKMT‘A-{lotg‘th - y l r‘ g p '
*\~ &H,‘.,.M:m . -. s _ ~ «9,» pg, .u -‘
r H: : Mi'W‘mmvaRW' w M
*Q'” ‘i A u” ‘ .~ . "*5" "‘V'

‘

 

, new?
‘i‘rw‘inftdwl 4: ‘ w

New Buildings
Seventy-one new buildings are planned. This
includes seventeen community houses, eight out-
door swimming pools, two indoor sports arenas,
two outdoor stadiums, park refectories, comfort
stations, and music shells at a total cost of

$13,892,000.

New Community Centers. Although Detroit en-

joys remarkable cooperation
from the Board of Educa-
tion in the use of school
buildings for after-school
recreation, there still re-
mains a great need for build-
ings especially constructed
for recreational purposes.
Many of the schools, particu-
larly in the older neighbor—
hoods, are unsuitable for rec-
reational use, and in such 10-
calities special buildings are
needed. Our present recrea-
tion buildings have demon—
strated the need for facilities
which can be open to the
public from early morning
until late at night.

JANUARY 1945

u .o- 4» N
v" nyn-sJJA—nave : y" I

a ai‘g ‘ s‘ z.‘. -.‘ ‘ 'I
a . ‘il‘mk'xu -I . ’
-,§,Mi"&yw‘ with-(3.: ’ a . -.
§ ., _‘

 

    

Courtesy Detroit N ews

The seventeen recreation centers planned will
follow the pattern proved successful in some of our
present‘buildings. There will be a combination
gymnasium and auditorium, showers, locker rooms,
craft and game rooms. These centers are to be
erected in the areas showing the greatest density

of population combined with scarcity of suitable

-facilities.

 

"Detroit is your city . . . our city . . .a
good city. Yet all of us know it can be
made much better . . . a finer city in which
to live and work. All of us have dreamed
about the 'Detroit of Tomorrow.I We have
said that some day we'll have this, some
day we'll have that . . . and then our city
will be a safer, happy. more comfortable
community for all of us.

"The time for idle dreaming is past.
Before us now is the opportunity to have

the things we want. We want play areas
and schools conveniently located near our
homes. We want decent homes in clean.
airy surroundings to replace our slums.
We want health centers' librariesl recrea-
tion centersI safe streets. and express
highways."-——Your Detroit.

 

Other Buildings. Twelve
new buildings are planned
as refectories for golf courses
and other park locations to
replace or augment present
inadequate facilities. Music
shells, where band concerts,
community singing, and
other musical entertainments
can be staged, are in the
plans. Comfort stations and
service buildings make up
the remainder of the seventy—
one other structures for
which plans are being made.

Outdoor Swimming Pools.
Inadequacy of outdoor swim-

ming facilities will be rem-

( Continued on page 554)

Operating Artificial Skating Rinks

lation of 12,700, we oper-

ate three skating rinks
with a total area for all the
rinks of 2.63 acres, or
114,782 square feet divided
as follows : Hubbard Woods,
39,322 ; Indian Hill, 45,940;
Skokie Playheld, 29,520. At
Hubbard Woods the entire
area is devoted to general
skating, although during the
greater part of the time a
portion of this rink is roped
off for the use of figure
skaters. On the other two
we operate hockey rinks—a
regulation size rink 85’ x
200’ at Indian Hill, and a
practice rink 46’ x 120’ at Skokie Playtield where
the tennis courts are Hooded for skating. The prac-
tice hockey rink is located outside the tennis court
enclosure.

I N WINNETKA, with a popu-

Attendance

On the basis of the population of 12,700, this is
a total area of approximately 9 square feet per
person. On the basis of the average number of
skating buttons (4,161) we have sold per year over
the past seven years, plus an average of 579 daily
fee skaters per season for the period this is an
average area of 24.2 square feet per skater. It is
believed that the area of each rink is sufficient for
our small community, although a larger area would
be desirable. Judging by the number of buttons
sold, approximately 33 per cent of our population
use the rinks—and, take it from me, some of them
“live it.” '

The attendance at each rink is carefully esti-
mated each day by the attendant in charge and a
complete report of the day’s activities rendered the
superintendent. Over the past seven years there
has been an average estimated yearly attendance
of' 54,404 at the three rinks with an all-time high
attendance record of 62,629 for the year 1940-41.
The lowest for the seven years was last year when an
attendance of 48,523 was estimated-Ha short skat-
ing season. For the year 1940—41, which was an
unusually good year for skating, there was a daily

514

By GEORGE B. CASKEY
Superintendent. Park District
Winnetka, Illinois

At the l7th Annual Convention of the II-
linois Association of Park Districts held at
Peoria. Mr. Caskey discussed the care and .
maintenance of artificial ice rinks as they
are maintained and operated at Winnetka.
Since much of the discussion applies to
skating on ponds, lakes. and rivers, we asked

Mr. Caskey's permission to publish the
material in RECREATION.

Mr. Caskey sounds a note of warning: "If
you contemplate providing skating rinks in
your communityI I would advise you to
check your weather conditions throughout
the entire winter very thoroughly."

 

average of 835 for the 75
days of skating. It might be
added that in that year the
rinks were'flooded on the
evening of November 27th
and were kept open until
March 2nd. During that
'same year we tried to keep
a separate record of adult
attendance and minor at-
tendance. This adult at-
tendance was estimated at
18,051 or 28.8 per cent, and
the minor attendance at
44,578, or 71.2 per cent of
the total attendance.

We hold at least one, and
sometimes three, annual rac-
ing carnivals per year at our

rinks. The competition at these events is very
keen. Boys who learned to skate on our rinks have
won awards in the meets at Chicago and others of
equal importance. Our annual figure skating car-
nival is a classic event. Some of these carnivals
have been attended by a crowd estimated at over
2,000.

Rinks Should Be Neigborhood Affairs '

We have found that the skating rink, if it is to
be used to an appreciable extent, must be a neigh—
borhood affair. Children come in the early evening
and after school. For this reason the rink must be
close to the home. It is believed that a large cen-
trally located rink, while probably much more eco- +
nomical to operate, would not serve as well as
several smaller rinks distributed throughout the
community. Older children and adults will travel
the greater distance—but not the small child of
school age. Rinks next to schools are very desir-
able, with a part of the school building used as a

‘ shelter.

The ideal arrangement might be to have a large
centrally located rink providing areas for games.
hockey, and figure skating, with small rinks in the
outlying areas to take care of little children. These,
as well as the large rink, would probably serve
better if located close enough to the schools so
that they could be used during recess and lunch
times.

RECREATION

OPERATING ARTIFICIAL SKATING RINKS 515

a 

From the time a boy takes a hockey stick in
his hand, he and ’rhe stick are inseparable

A Square Deal for All

In the operation of our rinks six different groups
must be considered. These are the beginners,
figure skaters, those skating for relaxation and
pleasure, those who play games, and those who
race. We have found it necessary to segregate
these groups, apportion the time for each of them,
or prohibit certain activities entirely. We have
found that wboy will come to the rink with a pair

‘ of skates today. Tomorrow he will learn to stand
l on them. The third day he will have a hockey stick
7' in his hand, and from that time on the skates, the
0 boy, and the hockey stick will be inseparable. The
enthusiasm for hockey surpasses that for any other
sport for which we provide facilities, and I know
no game which furnishes more thrills. For safety
sake a separate rink area protected by a fence
must be provided for the use of hockey players.

Small children and adults just learning to skate,
need a small area aside from the other skaters.
Figure skaters require a separate area, and we
I ight say a separate area is required for those
who just skate for relaxation and exercise. Chil-
ren of public school ages like to play games such
-. ice tag, crack—the—whip, and “stinko.” General
skating and games do not go together. The in-
evitable result is something like that which occurs
when two irresistible forces meet head—on. Those
spiring for the Silver Skates would make an In-

ANUARY 1945

a}

' . he . ;-; .J, .

 

dianapolis Speed—
way out of every
skating rink, with
a triple A, I-A
priority, to the
total exclusionof
everyone else.

We have evolved
a fairly successful
plan for handling
these groups: At
two of our rinks
hockey rinks are
provided. At the
third rink the at-
tendant is an Irish-
man. To him the
sight of a hockey
stick is like the
proverbial waving
of the red flag at a bull. Any boy who even dares
to bring the stick within sight evokes a burst of
Irish oratory, and the offense is rarely ever re-
peated! At this rink an area is set aside for figure
skating. (It is permitted at the other two rinks.)
Games may be played at the discretion of the at-
tendants, but on the whole they are discouraged as
being in most instances rather dangerous. A time
is set aside at one of the rinks close to the dinner
hour when the racers are allowed to exercise their
priority, and they are usually given another period
just before the rink closes at ten o’clock in the
evening when the crowd has thinned out.

At two of the rinks a small area, approximately
20’ x 30’, is set aside for the exclusive use of be-
ginners and small children; on the third, at the
tennis court enclosure, they hug the corners.

On the Technical Side

Two of the rinks are on level grass areas, with
a one foot shoulder around the outside edges. The
third is on the tennis courts at the Playheld. The
high shoulder around the outside edges is unneces—
sary and objectionable because it interferes with
snow removal. A low shoulder, long and sloping,
approximately 6 inches in height, is sufficient, and
is desirable only because it makes it possible to
flood the area and allows the water to freeze in
the same manner that a lake or pond would freeze.
The practice hockey rink at the Playfield is lo—
cated on the grass area adjacent to the tennis
courts. All three rinks are provided with tile
drainage and have tile openings at the surface.

516 OPERATING ARTIFICIAL SKATING RINKS

These Openings are covered prior to flooding, but
are “referenced in” so that they may be opened at
any time in order to drain off water from melting
ice or from rain.

On the grass rinks a fine sod is maintained.
Every effort has been made to improve the sod on
these areas. as it has been found that it is easier to
maintain the ice over the best sodded portions of
the area than on areas that were bare. The grass
seems to act as an insulating cushion, preventing
the high sun of the latter part of January and Feb-
ruary from melting the ice as quickly as on the
sodless areas.

The tennis courts that are flooded consist of two
clay and two tarvialithic“ courts. Much difficulty
has been experienced in maintaining ice on the
tarvia courts after' February Ist when the sun’s
rays become quite direct, unless a heavy layer of
ice can be built up. We have been able to some
extent to solve the problem of melting ice by cov-
ering these two courts with a one-half inch layer of
sand. This acts as insulation in much the same
manner as does grass. Where adequate drainage
is provided there should be no noticeable grass
suffocation. We have none on our two grass rinks.

We obtain our water for making ice from the
Village of Winnetka. Fire hydrants have been
installed for the purpose in close proximity to each
rink. These hydrants are designed for intermittent
use only, and they do not
stand up under constant,
continued usage, particu-
larly during extreme cold
weather. If they are to be
used, a tile drain connect—
_ing the drain valve of the
hydrant must be provided
or the hydrant will freeze.
We use a 1%” hose and a
long tapering nozzle with
a V2” opening for flooding.
In using a fire hydrant it
is necessary, of course, to
have the hydrant wide
open. We attach a 1%”
valve between the hydrant
and the hose, using this
for a control should it be
necessary to shut off the
hose.

Before starting to flood,
we mow the grass rink
areas as late as possible

and, if time permits, we roll the areas just before
the ground freezes. The area should be frozen
before attempting to make ice, although this is not
absolutely necessary inasmuch as it is possible to
build ice on ground that is not frozen.

We build up the ice by spraying layer by layer,
holding the nozzle of the hose high enough to get
the maximum coverage. The men spray as if they
were trying to water a newly-seeded lawn without
washing out any of the seeds. Avoid holding the
hose parallel to the ground or slightly downward,
and go over the area very quickly, putting the
water on only as fast as it will freeze. There
should be little or no water standing on the rink
when the work is completed, and it may be neces-
sary to wait for the water to freeze into ice before
spraying again. At times our men spent fifteen to
twenty minutes spraying the rinks, and thirty
minutes waiting for the water to freeze. Sometimes
three or four light sprays are given before a wait
is necessary. On cold nights, with temperatures of
zero or below, the water will freeze as fast as it can
be applied. Too long a wait will cause the ice to
flake. Water should be applied while the surface
is somewhat wet or “tacky,” like a somewhat
freshly painted surface.

It's an artiflcial rink on the roof of
the Madison Square Boys' Club in New
York City, and it's a very popular one!

 

RECREATION "

 

OPERATING ARTIFICIAL SKATING RINKS 517

The greater part of our spraying, except when
we start making ice, is done after IO P. M. when
the rinks close. Two men are used, one holding the
nozzle, the other dragging the hose out of the way.
The hose should not be dragged along the newly
sprayed ice or remain on the ice for any length
of time as it will roughen the surface of the newly
formed ice or melt its way into the ice. On any
grass plot or uneven surface it will take two nights,
or approximately thirty hours, to build up a fair
skating surface. On a smooth even surface like a
tennis court it is possible to build ice in from twelve
to fifteen hours of flooding. As soon as a coat of
ice is secured over the rink, the area is scraped
to cut off any bumps or grass blades that stick
through the ice, and to obtain as smooth a surface
as is possible on which to build.

The scrapers used consist of a I” x 12” board
6 feet long, to which is fastened a %;”x 1%,”
piece of scrap iron as a cutting edge and handles
for pushing. We have some scrapers that are only
4 feet long which we use in pushing snow. Care
must be taken to keep the edges of the scraper
straight so that it will thoroughly clean the ice.
We have found these scrapers more satisfactory
than the small power-driven rotary brushes.

possible to build up a layer of ice to a depth of 6
inches. As soon as this thickness of ice is obtained,
only sufficient spraying is done each night to main-
tain it. It has been our experience that the warmth

‘ of the sun will not penetrate to any great extent

b through 6 inches of ice unless the temperature is
high and the warm spell prolonged. Before flood-
ing each evening, the ice is scraped to remove all
scrapings left by the skaters. This leaves a good
clean surface to build on. Any holes in the ice are
filled with ice scrapings or snow, wetted, and
securely tamped. The flooding freezes these solid,
and the next morning they are not visible.

' At the start of the season we try as quickly as
|

Light snows are removed with the hand scrapers
previously described. In case heavy snows are en-
countered, a snow plow mounted on a truck or

, tractor is necessary. We have been using very
successfully a Meyer snow plow mounted on our
Toro golf course tractor. To prevent Spillage and
obtain a clean sweep we have small “wings” or
“Sideboards” on this plow.

Quite frequently during the skating season a
.warm spell with a certain amount of rainfall is
I.countered. When this happens to such an extent
that there is water standing on the ice, drains are

‘ JANUARY 1945

opened and the water is allowed to run away. It is
sometimes necessary to remove a portion of this
slush or water by hand. Many times if we feel
that a severe cold spell is imminent, we leave the
water on the ice allowing it to freeze, letting nature
do the flooding for us. Quite frequently a wet
snow will form a slush on the ice. This is difficult

, to remove, and in some instances it is not desirable

to attempt removal, but to wait for it to freeze and
then spray. .

The latter part of the season we have difficulty
with what we call “mushrooms.” These bumps on
the ice were so serious last season that there were
several days on which it was impossible to skate
although there was a heavy layer of ice on the
rinks. We tried to remove these with a road
grader and were partially successful. It is believed
that an ice planer might be equally effective.

Length of Season

In view of the fact that we charge for the use of
our rinks, we endeavor to maintain the ice when-
ever weather conditions justify. We make ice with
the first cold weather and maintain it as late in
the season as possible. Over the past ten years we
have averaged forty-nine and a half full days of
skating of thirteen hours each; nineteen part-days
of from two to twelve hours each, or a total aver-
age of sixty-eight and a half days skating per year
and an average of nineteen days during the season
when there was no skating. The rinks were oper-
ated, that is, days of skating and no skating, an
average of 87.5 days per year during the period.

Over the past seven years we have used an
average of 1,460 cubic feet of water per 1,000
square feet of ice maintained, with a high of 1,900
cubic feet for the season of 1937-38, and a low of
999 cubic feet last year. This use varies somewhat
with the length of the skating season, but more
particularly with the number of times it is neces-
sary to remake the ice.

What Does It Cost?

The average yearly cost of operating the rinks
for the past seven years has been $5,210.58; the
average yearly revenue from fees, $2,398.66, mak-
ing the net average cost of operation, $2,811.92.

For Their Comfort and Enjoyment

At each of our rinks a heated shelter house is
provided and the rinks are Hoodlighted. This is

(Continued on page 557)

HE' MEN AND WOMEN re-
Tturning from action in

this holocaust want noth-
ing of a graphic nature erected
in their communities that is
going to remind them of any
part of this war. Also, they
do not wish to be remem-
bered as just another name

Living Memorials

By GORDON B. WALLACE

Superintendent of Parks
Wilmette. Illinois

Some extracts from an address given

by Mr. Wallace before the meeting of
the lllinois Association of _Parl< Dis-
tricts at Peoria on October 26. I944.
Reprinted from the November-Decem-
ber issue of Parks and Recreation.

experience the painful injur-
ies I had received.”

There was a young man
spending what he thought
would be his last few moments
of life fervently hoping that
somebody would make just a
small portion of this world a
better place in which to live

on a bronze plaque in case

they do not return. I say this with assurance be-
cause I have discussed the matter with many of
them and with other park men who have done the
same thing.

One case in particular, that of a young Hyer who
has seen action in a flying fortress, is brought to
mind. When asked what his reactions to war
memorials in general were, he said something like
this: “There were several occasions in the past
year where life for me and my companions was a
matter of existing from one minute to the next. I

for those who were to follow
him. I firmly believe that this sort of thinking on the
part of our servicemen and women is the rule rather
than the exception. I further believe that every park
district and every city and village has certain recre-
ational or practical needs that have long been un—
fulfilled, extending from drinking fountains to shel-
ters, to wildflower and bird sanctuaries, to addi-
tional park and playground areas, to community
houses, to stadiums, to amphitheaters. The list is
endless of the things that can be provided as living
memorials, and, I might add, with at least one in

had never done much thinking
about myself before, but I
wondered then what I had ac—
complished while alive that
would make anyone want to
remember me in case I should
depart from this world in the
next few seconds. I thought
that they would probably
erect a stone of some sort as
a monument, but the idea
displeased me. I used to en—
joy playing basketball in a
certain gymnasium, and close
to the foul line in that gym
was a steam radiator on

which I had severely bruised
my head on several occasions.
Strange as it may seem, at
that moment when the un-
certainty of my existence was
most evident, there was noth-
ing that I wanted done more
in my memory, or in my
name, than to have the posi-
tion of that radiator changed
so that some kid using that
gymnasium wouldn’t have to

518

LIVING MONUMENTS
For All Our Boys

In memory of me. you wouldn't erect

A dreary stone that would reflect--

No thought of joy or living things.

Or hope. for which the whole world sings.

l asl: that you go plant a tree
To cast a shadow cool. for me.
A tree to bless the weary earth.
Or any monument of vital worthl

In haunting memory. on marble cold.

I want no story of my valor told.

Forlorn and desolate. they stand for years.
Despair they bring. and lonely tears.

Instead. I beg y0u plan a place.

A playground—where children race.
Where laughter rings and children sing.
And mothers. there. their babies bring.

l want a woodland—dark and deep.

Where tern's. lilte sea-weed shadows creep.
A little lake—a bathing beach—

A happy place—in easy reach.

For city children. denied the joy

That I once knew. as a bare-foot boy.

Or (of man-made ice) a skating rink—
Are among the worth-while things. I think.

For all the boys--—on sea or land.

For all the Flyers—who victory planned.

From the Spirit World—we unite our pleas—
For playgrounds—pools—-—and glorious treesl

No futile piles of stone to mar.

The landscape view—both near and tarl
Dead monuments are but idle toys-
Give living things tor our noble boysl

—Milliccnt Easter

every price range.

If, as leaders in our com-
munities, we fail to make the
effort to convince our influ-
ential citizens, our various

civic groups, Legion posts,.

and Chambers of Commerce
of the wisdom of providing
useful living memorials; if
we fail to do our utmost to
give thoughtful guidance to
the honest sentiments of our
grief-stricken friends in this
direction, we shall indeed be
guilty of a breach of faith
with those we desire to honor.
We must do everything in our
power to make these memori-
als living symbols of their
courage, spirit, and patriotic
sacrifice. It would seem more
suitable and logical to sup—
pose that some things useful
might live and do good as
memorials in their names, long
after more austere structures
have become stained and are
forgotten.

RECREATION

.3

if“.

.1». ’
i‘J.

A Preview of Pleasure

this way. There’s something for everyone,

ladies and gents. Make your choice. Old or
young, man or woman, boy or girl. Whatever you
fancy, it’s here for you !”

No, that isn’t the barker at the midway of the
Greatest Show on Earth. It isn’t an invitation to
investigate the two-headed calf or to pluck a hair
from the bearded lady’s hirsute appendage. As
a matter of fact it isn’t even a “real” quotation.
It might be. It could be an invitation to Oklahoma
City’s Recreation Festival.

This festival marks the opening of the summer
play programs in the park and playgrounds of
Oklahoma City. It is held in June each year in
order to show the people of the community what
recreation facilities are available to them and to
their children during the summer months. Okla-
homa City believes that seeing is believing, that the
“buyer” should-have a chance to sample the wares
before he takes them.

“Save your tires, save your money, build your
health by going to your neighborhood park or
playground for recreation” is the war slogan of

. JANUARY 1945

ll STEP RIGHT THIS WAY, ladies and gents. Right

 

For three days last

June Oklahoma
City held its
Eleventh Annual
Recreation Festi-
val. Many citizens
subscribed to the
slogan of the city's
Park Department—-
"Save your tires'
save your money.

and bqu your
health by going to
your neighborhood
park or play-
ground for your
recreation."

Milwaukee Journal Photo

. By
CATHERINE SIMPSON

Acting Director of Recreation
Park Department

Oklahoma City. Oklahoma

the Recreation Division of Oklahoma City’s Park
Department. The whole city has gone out to put
some “umph” behind the slogan.

The program for the three-day event shows the
extent of imaginative planning that has gone into
summer recreation activities. Here are a few of
the varied items listed: doll show, sand modelling
contest, aircraft exhibits, water festival, commu-
nity sing, soap bubble contest, operetta, interpre-
tative dancing. A “sports carnival” is a series of
amateur boxing bouts. The usual games, active
and quiet, are on the list.

The ’Art Center, Library, Historical Building,
Municipal “Zoo, and City Greenhouse and Con-
servatory offer special attractions during the fes-
tival days to make the citizen acquainted with their
regular programs. Gallery tours of the permanent
Oklahoma Art collection of painting at the Art
Center; a “Book Festival” at the :kLibrary; a trip

(Continued on page 54:?)
519

A Letter from England

EAR SIR/MADAME:
D It is with great interest that I learn through

the Reader’s Digest of September 1944,
Overseas Edition for American Armed Forces,
that you are organizing “Youth Centres” over
there in America. Here in England (including
Wales and Scotland, of course) our individual
Town Councils, with the full support of the “min-
isterial men” concerned, have formed numerous
Youth Centres in each large town and city. It is
because of this perhaps strange or coincidental
movement that I should like to correspond with
some one perhaps the same age as myself (or
thereabouts) on our Youth Centres, Recreational
Centres, and our new Welcome Club here in
Swindon whilst some one over there writes to tell
me of your Centres in America—just one more
handshake across that seemingly small expanse of
ocean.

Now, let me introduce myself. My name is Ray
- Bennett. I am 21 years of age, five feet five inches
tall, dark hair, dark eyes, and somewhat dark com-
plexion. I weigh about eight stone, eleven pounds.
In America that’s 127 pounds. At present I am
nearly at the end of a five year apprenticeship
which is maintenance fitting and turning in the
workshops of the carriage and wagon department
of the Great Western Railway which has its
original home here. Our working hours are from
8 A. M. Monday until 12 noon Saturday. In detail
that means 8 A. M. until 7:30 P. M. each day with
an hour out for dinner and ten minutes for tea.
On Saturday we go in at 8 A. M. and finish at 12
o’clock noon until the following Monday morning.
Of course, the young boys under sixteen aren’t
allowed to work overtime—that is: after 5 :30 P. M.
Boys over sixteen and under eighteen years of age
are allowed to work only three nights a week over-
time. Boys, girls, men, and women over that age
are supposed to work all four nights, but since the
firewatching and Home Guard duties as well as
the civil defense services have been relaxed we get
one or two nights off by asking
(nicely, mind you) our appro-
priate foreman. That is, people
over eighteen years of age may
finish at 5 :30 RM. of they wish,
by asking.

Maybe as I go on scribbling

520

The writer

of this
at l53 Beatrice Streetl Swindonl
Wilts, England. At that address
he would be very glad to receive
first hand information from some
of you teen-agers in America.

this letter out to you, you will find that my Eng-
lish is apt to “slip” a little, so just at this point I
think that I had better tell you about the educa-
tion I have received. I started school when I was
three years of age at an ordinary—what we call—
elementary school. I stayed there until I was
fourteen years old when I reached the top class of
the school which was, by the way, Standard 8, and
was second in class position and the proud pos-
sessor of a book prize worth seven shillings and
sixpence. Before I actually left school to start
work/I had started Evening Institute or night
school, taking Science, Mathematics, and English
as my subjects. That was in 1937, the year in
which I left school at the age of fourteen years,
that being the recognized age of leaving.

To cut a long story short, I went to night school
from 1937 until I939. Then I fell ill with rheu-
matic fever which kept me out of circulation for
nearly a year, three months in hospital. When I
was well again in 1940, I went to night school
again for a short while, but was interrupted——
mostly by air-raid warnings. By the time that air-
raid wardens and iirst-aid workers, messengers
and so forth had left to report to their stations
there wasn’t enough boys to make a decent class—
or enough teachers to take a class (for they had
different air—raid jobs as well). Myself being a
qualified first-aid worker was and am now in a
First Aid Mobile Squad. Anyhow, night school
carried on through the dreary winter, at the time
when the Midlands were receiving uncalled for
attention from the Germans, but at the same time
a “feeling” prevailed throughout the younger gen-
eration that it was a waste of time attending these
classes.

This brings me to my long awaited point. It
is my belief that as far back as 1940 boys were
deciding as well as girls not to go to night school
but to “hang around” street corners and even in
public houses. That is, they were hanging around
places where beer and liquor is bought and (don’t
get me wrong) where here in
England the chummiest or the’
certain class of people meet and
perhaps play the old English
game of skittles, or have a game
of darts. Well, this decision of

(Continued on page 554)
RECREATION

letter lives

1

The ldeal Winter Sport for Everyone!

We asked Mr. Gveisl'l who has clone so much
to promol'e skating as well as bicycling in

New York City, to tell you why skating is such
a popular sport. and to give you from his long .
experience a little general information on the
subiecl'. Poinl'ing out that skal'ing has been an
American sporl' for a long timeI Mr. Geisl'
says. "Lel"s confinue to enjoy skal'ing together
on park lakes. rivers. and skating rinks."

ODAY ICE SKATING is a major winter sport.

Here are a few of the reasons for this:
‘ Skating is an active rather than spectator
sport which appeals to both sexes and all ages.
(People from three to ninety-three may enjoy it.)
It may be pursued strenuously or moderately, and
while it is primarily an outdoor sport, it may be
enjoyed at indoor rinks the year
round. With its group routines,
pair skating, and dancing it is a
social activity.

In its various branches skating
l offers an appeal to everyone.
There is ice hockey, the football
I of the ice with its spills and thrills;
‘ speed skating for youth who en-
, joy fast moving rhythm; and
figure skating—artistry on ice.
And in spite of the speed which
can be attained, skating stands
low in the sport accident list.

To those who like to skate
alone, the mastery of forty or
more school figures offers a chal-.
lenge which never loses interest,
and individuals who meet this
_ challenge successfully have the

opportunity to make a career of
l skating.

This unusual figure skat-

ing scene was photographed
at Grindelwald in the Ber-

nese Oberland. Switzerland

. y

‘45:. «.6 34.»

Courtesy Official Information Bureau of Switzerland

lANUARY 1945

 

By ROLAND C. GEIST
Coach of Skating
Newl'own High School
Long Island

As a final practical advantage, the expense of
skating is low, since the upkeep of ice skates is
practically nil, and lakes and rivers are usually
free to the public while rink charges are reasonable.

Equipment

The selection of equipment is important. Well-
meaning parents often buy children’s skates a few
sizes too large so that they may grow into them.
This is a mistake, for the child will not be able to
skate and will lose interest in the sport. The low
priced combination skate and shoe sets are usually

Photo by R. S chudel

521

522 THE IDEAL WINTER SPORT FOR EVERYONE!

not a good buy ‘because
the boots are often poorly
made, give little support,
and the riveted on blade
will require frequent sharp—
ening. Before you buy
decide what type of skat—
ing you will enjoy—speed
or figure; then purchase
proper blades. If you in—
tend to play hockey you
will want to buy hockey
skates.

It is preferable to buy
the blades and boots sepa-
rately. Custom made boots
are best but they are very
expensive. Stock skating
boots are adequate for the
average skater. The blades
should be one piece steel
for figure work or tubular
construction for racing.
Today skates are limited
in supply so a good used blade may serve your

vived to this day.

century:

purpose. Boots, new or second-hand, should be ~

a snug fit like a glove. You should have wooden
scabbards to protect the blades when walking over
metal or stone.

Your skating costume is, of course, a personal
matter. Speed skaters usually wear colored full-
length tights in jersey with club emblem on the
back. Hockey teams have regulation uniforms
selected by the manager and team. A skater not
connected with clubs or teams usually wears a
short skirt and sweater if a woman, while a man
usually wears a business suit.

'1

l

l

Skating Clubs

People who enjoy doing things together often
form a club, and ice skaters are no exception to
this rule. Almost every rink in the United States
has a club connected with it which has Special ses-
sions set aside for its members. The advantages
of such clubs are many. The novice has an oppor-
tunity to meet and skate with more experienced
skaters. Club sessions are less crowded than the
regular public sessions. Low priced group lessons
are sometimes offered to members. Most clubs
have a special dance session that is most sociable
and pleasant if the group is not so large that mem-
bers cannot become acquainted with each other.
Competitions are frequently arranged by the club.

FROM THE EARLY HISTORY OF SKATING

'_'Setting a date for the birth of skating is
almost as simple as setting a date for the dawn
of skiing. Both red letter days in the history
of winter recreation are obscured in the
smatterings of ancient history that have sur-

"Eight hundred years ago skating was a
flourishing pastime in many of the northern
countries of Europe. Among the earliest proofs sion.
that Man had taken to the ice and was, having
a bit of fun for himself are: the Edda, an early
collection of Icelandic literature that mentions
skating, and this bit from the Fitz-Stephen
Chronicle of Merrie England in the l2th

"'When the great fenne or moore is
frozen, many young men play on the yce.
someI striding as wide as they may doe,
slide swiftly . . . some
feet and under their heeles, and shoving
themselves by a little picked staffe. do slide
as swiftly as a bird flyeth in the aire, or an
arrow out of a crossbow.'

"Skating is not new!"—From Skating, by
Putnam and Parkinson. A. S. Barnes and Co.

At the end of the rink
skating season most clubs
stage an ice carnival which
is great fun for every-
body. Occasionally a junior
group may take care of
the children of members
with a special junior ses-

Smaller communities,
schools, and colleges might
well organize ice skating
clubs which bring members
of the group together and
make for a friendly feeling
all around. However,
where there are no rinks
and one must depend upon
nature to freeze the pond,
there may be little oppor-
tunity to enjoy skating to-
gether, though roller skat-
ing at a rink may solve
the problem since there
are 4,000 or more rinks in the United States.

Several New York high schools have skating
clubs that are popular. Over 400 students applied
for membership in the club at Newtown High
School where skating has. always been a favorite
sport with the boys and girls. The boys enjoy ice
hockey and speed skating, and once a year those
who have proved themselves the speediest skaters
compete in the famous Silver Skates contest which
ends in a great carnival at Madison Square Gar-
den in New York City. Most of the girls and
many of the boys enjoy figure skating.

Newtown is fortunate in being near the City
Rink, a municipal rink charging only 22 cents
admission, which is an ideal place for both racing
and ice skating. The girls make their skating cos-
tumes in the sewing classes, talk about skating in
their English classes, and learn how to buy and‘
care for skates in their merchandising classes.
During Christmas vacation a trip to Bear Moun-
tain for winter sports is enjoyed by everyone. The
entire trip costs only about $3.00 per person.

All students who are proficient in skating re—
ceive a letter known as “Skating N” or athletic
award. Five or six faculty members have become ‘
interested in figure skating, and soon there will be
a Newtown Faculty Figure Skating Club. The
weekly skating sessions give students and teach-

( Continued on page 550)
RECREATION

tye bones to their

 

 

Shipyards and Playgrounds

AR CAME to Vancouver,
Washington, with a rush,
a felt, a bang. Ships had to be built—and
‘ fast. Men and women from all over the United
, States packed their [ares and penates, their chil—
1 dren, and their pets into whatever transportation
1 was available and headed for Vancouver. In less
‘ than two years the city’s population had been mul-

‘ tiplied by five.
The Need

, Vancouver, overnight, became a place of stand-
, ing in line (when there was a place to stand), of
being offered dozens of jobs but having to apply
‘ for a place to live. Stores could not supply the
needs. The Salvation Army gave teachers a place
to sleep. Defense plants sprang up all along the
‘ edge of town. Every swamp, every golf course,
every parking lot was filled with rows of barrack-
like apartments and open coal boxes. Children
swarmed over the gravel paths looking for a place
to play. What could be done with them? They
were miles from school. Defense workers were
riding three deep in the city busses. But even if
there were enough transportation, how could a
school system
built for 4,182
children take
care of 12,520?
What would the
children do after
school while their
mothers worked ?

The first two
of these ques-
tions were an-
swered when
emergency school
busses provided
the transporta-
t i o n a n d t h e
schools squeezed
the new pupils
into vacant
rooms, libraries,
hallways. But no
answer had been
f o u n d fo r t h e

JANUARY 1945

By MARGARET M. ROMEO

 

hours of freedom to roam the
streets, unhappy and uncared for.

This is the story of how Vancouver took three
thousand children off those gravel paths and put
them on playgrounds. Their parents had come to
build ships, but the children wandered, bewildered
and homesick, around the housing units. Many of
them, unaccustomed to working mothers, hardly
knew whether they were wanted or not.

“Where do you live?” Robert’s teacher asked
him.

“I live in Iowa,” was the reply. “My apartment
number is 217.” For Robert and children like him
something had to be done, a world had to be sta-
bilized and that right quickly unless they were to
be permanently scarred. A new day dawned for

them first in the office of the Superintendent of
Public Schools.

The Plan

The Superintendent viewed the situation with
alarm perhaps, but without that hysteria that

The "men behind the men behind the tootlights"
aren't interested in play-acting, but they do
enjoy some of the activities that go with it!

A‘ ._ . |

.1 .   I ‘- 2. -

tad .
.11, .

'. Q '
'__ ‘ 0'31
 It i. .

,. .I .
. ‘ '5‘! . ‘ (a  § t...
o ‘6 i a}

523

524 SHIPYARDS AND PLAYGROUNDS

freezes action. He called his staff together and put
the problem squarely before them. “If children
cannot be cared for properly at home,” he reasoned,
“they should stay in school—an extended day
school to give them play and rest, creative arts and
athletics, a chance to follow their old interests and
to learn new ones.” Such a program would require
money, workers, and equipment, but the teachers
had taken the first step. They knew what was
needed. Now they must go after it.

Business and industry were glad to cooperate.
The shipyard authorities had learned from experi—
ence that when children are unhappy their parents
are prone to pack their belongings and go “back
East.” Children loahng in the stores had created a
real problem for the business men. Practical con-
siderations were added to idealism as forces urging
that a solution be found. School, business, and
industry joined forces to form the Greater Van-
couver Recreation Commission. A program was
initiated to be financed by the Federal Government
and carried on by the public schools aided by the
housing authority and the city.

The most crying need in Vancouver was admit—
tedly an extended day school for the youngerichil-
dren. But the teen-age group and the hard work-
ing parents needed recreation facilities almost as
badly. Actually the three problems were one, and
were attacked as such. Space was not an insolu-
ble problem. Each housing project had a recrea-

tion building which could be used and the school.

buildings were available after 3 :30 each afternoon.
The government funds were sufficient, but workers
were a real stumbling block. Everywhere in Van-
couver trained and untrained help was at a pre-
mium. Aid came first from an unexpected source.
Many out-of—state teachers were applying for posi-
tions. .Those who could not meet the Washington
state certification requirements were put to work
in the extension day school. Housewives and reg-
ular teachers agreed to work on a part—time basis.
A census was made of the faculty wives, and those
qualified were urged to help. Small children were
no excuse because other faculty wives were drafted
to take care of them. Leisure time became unpatri-
otic in Vancouver. Letters to people whose names
were'on old lists of teachers’ agencies and college
placement bureaus brought workers from all parts
of the country. At last the program was in full
swing with a staff of seventy full-time and a hun-
dred and eight part-time workers.

The problem seemed to be solved. But more
people came to build ships. The schools went on

double shifts, using the classrooms from dawn until
dark. Still more shipbuilders came, and the schools
even held double shift classes in several recreation I
centers. Somehow, in spite of all this, the Com-I
mission carried on its activities. The quarters were
cramped, but they had to serve until summer vaca-
tion made the school buildings available once more.
If a ping-pong ball hit a young artist’s easel, or
the glee club drowned out the nature study class, I
it was all part of the fun.

The Results

Children are no longer swarming over the gravel
paths of the housing areas. They are busy play- I
acting or building model airplanes, dancing, sing-
ing, and making things. There is some kind of
activity going on at all times from 9 to 5 Monday
through Friday, and from 9 till noon on Saturday
for children from four years of age through junior
high school. They choose their own activities, but
they must bring parent’s consent blanks in order
to make it possible for the directors to anticipate
numbers and interests. Even so they sometimes
“get in a jam.” One day, for instance, a circus
came to town. Some children brought money and
some did not, but they all wanted to see the ele—
phants and the clowns. Those who had brought
their money saw them. The others took a walk to
the veterinary hospital to see pink—eyed rabbits and
baby kittens. The doctor operated on a brown dog
“without hurting it,” and told them to come again.

The program is highly diversified and far-
reaching. It includes athletics of every kind, music,
dancing, theater projects, model airplane clubs,
cooking classes. Vancouver points with pride to
the results of all this. Merchants know—with
relief—that their stores are no longer full of wan-
dering children with no place to go. Teachers
know that their pupils no longer miss the last bus
to “poke around town till Mother gets off the
shift.” (“I have to hurry to the recreation,” David
explained, “I’m making a clay pig for my brother.”)
\Vanda’s mother knows that her child no longer
cries because she is too crippled to play hop-
scotch. She is much too busy singing in the glee
club. The “Juvenile Court Officer knows that the
year’s cost for making three thousand children safe
and contented was seven cents a day per child.

The Greater Vancouver Recreation Commission
is rapidly reaching its goal of making Robert and,
David and Wanda and all the others who have left
their homes in Iowa or Arkansas feel “at home” in
Vancouver for the duration.

RECREATION

Give Them
Something‘to Do

By FLORENCE J ANSSON
Arlington. Virginia

. ATROLMAN OLIVER A. COWAN was very
serious about his appointment to the Metro-
politan Police Force of Washington, D. C.
I his was no matter of so many hours each day
0 be filled with routine duties. It was a trust
eposed in him by the community, a challenge
0 his citizenship and to his ingenuity. He was
young man with a burning need to find ways
i helping boys and girls to grow positively and
reatively rather than become-drags on the com-
unity in which they lived.
Patrolman Cowan, born in Arkansas, educated
high schools in Cleveland, Ohio and Washing-
n, D. C., and—for three hard-won years—at
oward University, entered the third decade of
is life aware of the full meaning symbolized by
e uniform he wore. He was assigned to a pre-
nct where he found hundreds of boys and girls in
: rious stages of social maladjustment. They were
ot inherently bad youngsters. They had the nor-
al amount of energy and curiosity and thirst for
venture that is bound up in every boy and girl.
hey were seeking—quite unself-consciously—for
mething dynamic and lively and maybe a little
ring. But wartime Washington is a busy city.
. rents are often overworked; some are irrespon-
1e. Schools are handicapped by a shortage of
ilities and trained workers. Teachers are strug-
ing against handicaps to meet standardized re-
irements too general to take into consideration
e personal problems of each individual child. So
at started as a harmless excursion into mildly
rbidden fields might end, lacking the necessary
' cks and balances, as serious delinquency.
It was, perhaps, no wonder that Officer Cowan,
dying the particular problems of his area
I' arned from business men about the mischief of
- boys, and from schools . . . about truancy.”
he young officer saw clearly the wide gate and
open road leading from those early truancies

NUARY 1945

    
 
   
 

   
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

Courtesy Lancaster, P0,, Recreation Association

Boys like fhese found a real
friend in Pa’rrolman Cowan

among youngsters who did not somehow [it into
the pattern of the school curriculum and from the
mischief of idle hands to well-established delin-
quency records. He was naturally well equipped
to attack the problem, for his friendliness and en»
thusiasm quickly commanded the loyalty of the
neighborhood boys and girls. He became their
friend. (In a very real sense he is making a career
of friendship.) This Fitting of personal qualities to
an urgent need of the times gives an orderly pat-
tern to his career.

Oliver Cowan knew the need to arouse in the
potential delinquent a justifiable sense of personal
worth and a voluntary acknowledgment on his
own level of his obligations to a nebulous social
body. This would give the youngster at loose emo-
tional or psychological ends the assurance and
anchorage he sorely needs. Cowan knew from his
own experience the sense of satisfaction that comes
from self-generated accomplishment. He worked
out a plan of campaign whose soundness has been
demonstrated by its success.

He began by believing in the neighborhood boys
and girls, and it was this confidence in their per-
sonal worth that aroused their voluntary respect
for law and order. True, there were many times
when he had to exercise his official authority, but
he did it with a natural understanding of the psy-

525

526

chological factors in the problem with which he
was concerned. He knew how to be firm without
being harsh and unfriendly.

It would be too much to say that he gained im—
mediate response from his whole area in his efforts
to work with young people. Some of the young—
sters evaded him with a wayward shrewdness that
might have discouraged a man of less human un-
derstanding. But he kept forging ahead and con-
solidating his gains as he went along.

He had a way of turning up at neighborhood
ball games after work, looking on with genuine
interest, applauding occasionally, and talking with
one or another of the boys in the lusty language of
the diamond. The young people came to know this
officer of the law as one of themselves. Perhaps
the law was not at enmity with them all after.

It was not long until they identified themselves
more formally with the law and with civic order
by organizing under the friendly young officer’s
leadership a Junior Police Club. This—is an extra-
official undertaking, a “spare-time” development
growing out of Cowan’s conviction that .what these
junior citizens of the community need is patient
understanding of their immaturity, and sympa-
thetic guidance on their own level of interest.

Officer Cowan began by discussing his ideas, in
their own juvenile terms, with two neighborhood
boys. Didn’t they think it would be a fine idea to
have their own junior citizens’organization with
their own junior police corps, a club in which they
could gain understanding of community laws, and
personal relationships to local government? They
accepted the idea. After all, Officer Cowan had
entered into their , games and problems. Why
shouldn’t they enter into his field of special inter-
ests? It would be fun. There was a kind of sports-
manship about it, sportsmanship on a civic basis
with personal responsibilities translated into simple
terms adapted to juvenile understanding. It ex-
plained a lot of things about law and order that
they had not clearly understood before. These were
not represssive, unfriendly terms at all and they
were not remote or impersonal as they had some-
times seemed. Everyone, even they, had a personal
share in community life, and personal reSponsi-
bilities to society. The thought had in it a strong
appeal to the sense of individual worth, and it
brought out a voluntary desire to participate con—
sciously in community betterment. From this nu-
clear beginning has grown the Junior Police Club
of the Thirteenth Precinct as it is today.

“It is their club,” says Officer Cowan. “They

GIVE THEM SOMETHING TO DO

I

    
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 

carry on all the activities and choose their own
group leaders.” With a skillful minimum of super-
vision he lends direction and order to their spon
taneous proceedings, suggesting new lines of en—
deavor from time to time, and keeping the club’
ideal for personal integrity in the forefront.

His simple formula, “Give them something t
do,” is put into practical operation in the Junio
Police Club. The task of maintaining an organiza
tion of around 700 boys and girl auxiliaries i
“something to do” on a considerable scale.

The central organization has a municipal pat
tern. A mayor is duly elected by the voting con
stituency according to traditional democratic proc
esses. The proud sponsor tells of one boy recentl
drafted into the Navy from his post as mayor.
quiet, unassuming youth, the ex-mayor entere
his boot training in the same spirit of social co
operation that had marked his administrative rec
ord. This is not just an abstract, over-enthusiasti
Opinion; it has concrete support in the fact of th
young sailor’s early promotion in rank to appren
tice petty officer. Officer Cowan. is proud of
certificate naming this boy as honor man of hi
company for the period of training complete
February 7, 1944.

In this juvenile civic unit the free press is rep
resented by Y outhtown N eras, with its variou
departments giving journalistic outlet to the con
tributors.

A social-minded business man in the neighbor-
hood has concretely expressed his endorsement of
the club by giving it the use of a two room offic
in which to carry on its considerable administrativ
work. Here the various group leaders, roughl
analogous to officers of municipal governmen
meet to work out their particular assignments.

Cowan points out that the very creditable pos
ers on the walls are club products, that in fact th
whole undertaking is essentially self-sustainin
It moves along under its own power, the cooper
tive achievement of the whole membership. 

Local branches have been formed under th;

   
 
  

central organization, each with a captain and
staff of assistants. 'The spread of administrative
duties is evidence that Cowan consistently transj
lates into practice his formula, “Give them some-
thing to do.”

Not all the activities are confined to adminis-
tration by any means. Creative and play groups
are important parts of the program. These accom-
modate a wide range of interests, including foot-

( C omit-med on page 550)
RECREATION

 

At Florida's War Recreation Conference

N E MUST THINK of recreation in terms of the
W whole community. Only by an all-out
unified effort on the part of both private
and public agencies can the needs of all be ade-
quately met.”
This was the theme 'which carried through the
three-day War Recreation Conference at Miami
Beach, Florida, where representatives from Flor—
ida cities met for the third year to discuss their
problems. Again and again they reiterated the
thought that the task is one of community organi-
zation for recreation with all facilities, groups, and
programs mobilized in the total service.
l Recreation is a community service with empha-
i sis on service in many fields for many groups. Rec-

reation is fundamental in the life of the individual

and of the community. To the individual it is an
l ingredient in the balanced ration of life; to the
community it is a basic function along with health,
welfare, and education—a fundamental responsi-
bility of the local community. Its importance has
been recognized by national, state and local groups,
and by private agencies which are making an es-
sential contribution to the total program.

A priority in wartime on the war front, indus-
trial front and home front, recreation is an essen—
tial in peacetime. In this transition period all the
assets of wartime recreation must be carried over
to peacetime.

While ever-present community recreation needs
and problems such as children’s playgrounds and

l

.Servicemen's Center at Lakeland. Florida.
formerly the Community Tourist Building

 

JANUARY 1945

 

During the past few years Florida has made
such rapid strides in the development of the
recreation movement that we have thought our
readers would be interested in having some
extracts from the report of the Third Annual
Florida War Recreation Conference held last
November in Miami Beach. The conference was
sponsored by the State Defense Council in co-
operation with the Recreation Division. FSA.
the United Service Organizations. lnc.. the
National Recreation Association. and the
Florida Recreation Workers' Association.

 

By JAMES E. ROGERS

National Recreation Association

adequate support for public recreation were rec-
ognized, the Conference also stressed such topics
as the Contribution of Private Agencies in War
and Peace; Servicemen’s and"Women’s Recrea-
tion ; Industrial Recreation; Rural Recreation;
Negro Recreation; Youth Recreation; the Import—
ance of Volunteers; Recreation in Small Commu-
nities; Recreation as a Profession; Recreation in
Housing Projects; Church Recreation; and'similar
topics. ,

The Conference recognized the importance of
leadership. “The total task of recreation for the
whole community in the transition period is a com—
munity service through community organization
that- demands the efforts of all of us in a
united team if we are to meet adequately
the many tasks and responsibilities we
face today and in the future, especially
during the period of transition.

“To meet this challenge demands ex-
perienced professionals and trained vol-
unteers; hence the problem of the train-
ing, placement, and recruiting of volun-
teers and paid leaders is ever present and
of immediate importance.”

Highlights of the Conference

From the various discussions at the
Conference came many significant state-

ments regarding problems, .needs, and
developments.

527

I

528 AT FLORIDA’S WAR RECREATION CONFERENCE

Recreation in Florida. For three years the Florida
Recreation Workers’ Association has been work-
ing to meet the need for servicemen’s recreation,
for an adequate program for youth, for migratory
and industrial recreation, and for rural people and
Negroes. Forty-two local Negro recreation com-
mittees are at work and a State Recreation Con-
ference for Negroes has been had, with a second
scheduled for December 4-6, 1944, at Tallahassee.
Negro recreation is part of the wartime program
and will be expanded in postwar planning.

Continuing Services to Men and Women in the
Armed Forces. Recreation will make rapid advance
in the postwar period as it did after World War I.
The efforts made to provide recreation for ser—
vicemen and women have helped convince civilians
of the value of recreation and the need for co-
operative effort. Returning servicemen want com-
munity contacts; they are looking forward to home
life, church life, and all the normalcies of life. The
home town must be made attractive and interesting
to men and women as they return to _civilian life.
The provision of community recreation is one of
the best means for accomplishing this.

Meanwhile, until the end of the war, interest in
the provision of recreation for servicemen must be

maintained in the following ways:

By giving all local organizations a share in planning

By assigning the responsibility and delegating authority
for definite and specific services

By giving credit to individuals and groups for achieve-
ment

By keeping in close touch with military and naval
officers for cooperation and guidance

By offering servicemen and women attractive choices
for varied and flexible activities

By making the service centers a hub around which
center the services of the community to the armed
forces

By seeing to it that there are sufiicient resources in
every community to meet any need which the com-
munity recognizes as important.-

Recreation for Industrial Workers. American in— .

dustry, with its outstanding achievements in war—
time production, has had to face new problems
arising from the industrialization of cities. After
the war will come problems of reconversion and of
unemployment. American communities must be
prepared to expand their activities in the industrial
field by securing adequate consideration of the
problem, a mutual sharing of responsibility by all
agencies, a high degree of c00peration, and ade-
quate planning for the future.

Florida is one of the states which is experiencing

the problems brought about by the expansion of
industrial plants. Among the cities affected are
Jacksonville, Tampa, Pensacola, and Panama City.
Expanded governmental ‘activities with increased
civilian employment have affected recreational
needs in Key West and Miami. Smaller commu-
nities such as Fernandina and Port St. Joe have
been faced with labor difficulties attributed in part
to inadquate recreational activities.

Industrial workers are at the present time being
served through recreation programs financed by
industrial plants, by public recreation departments,
by private agencies such as the Y.M.C.A., USO,
and Boy Scouts, and by Federal Housing Authori-
ties who provide facilities and assist in securing
leadership.

It was recommended by the Conference that the
Recreation Division of the State Defense Council
and the Florida Recreation Workers’ Association
appoint a subcommittee to plan for coordinated
programs of recreation for industrial workers. Any
plan made should be part of existing plans for
recreation so that community ties of workers in
industry will be strengthened.

Teen-Age Services. An outstanding development
during 1943-44 has been the creation of recrea—
tion programs and centers for youth.

The plea of the Conference was for a positive
rather than a negative approach to the problem.
Youth voiced its own desires. It wants to do its
part, but asks for adult guidance and help in prob-
lems of financing and of securing proper locations
and equipment for centers.

A youth center, it was felt, should include a
lounge, canteen, dance floor, and game room. An
important requirement is a broad, varied program
which must be maintained after the war. .

Rural Recreation. If recreation is good for city
dwellers, it is also good for country folks. Rural

recreation is a problem to be handled by peopleI

who understand rural needs. Many state agencies
are interested, and much is being done in Florida
to meet the needs through churches, schools,
grange, 4—H Clubs, Boy and Girl Scouts, and other
organizations. State and county parks have an im-
portant part to play.

The great need in rural districts is for leader-
ship which will take responsibility for mobilizing
and utilizing all existing resources. '

Recreation in Smaller Communities. All small

communities have within their boundaries groups
(Continued on page 546)

RECREATION

The Chicago Recreation Conference

HE ANNUAL Chi-

cago Recreation

Conference was
held in the Sherman
Hotel, Chicago, on
November 22, 1944. Five hundred people from
Chicago and the Middle West came together to
discuss their mutual problems, to hear speakers, to
see—in exhibits—examples of projects or work in
progress.

At the luncheon meeting, Mayor Kelly hon0red
eighteen members of the Chicago Recreation Com-
mission who have served during the full ten years
of the life of the Commission. Following these
_.citations, Dr. Philip L. Seman, chairman of the
Commission, previewed “The Years Ahead,” pre-
senting the recreational needs of the approximately
15,000,000 men and women who will have served
in the armed forces a large portion of whom will
return to civilian life, “some partially incapaci-
tated and all different from what they were when
they went in.” Industrial workers, too, some
20,000,000 of whom are actually now engaged in
war industry, will require special recreational plan-
ning in the postwar period.

Dr. Seman also put before the Conference a
problem which will increasingly concern all rec-

reation workers—that of recreational planning for
the more than I 3,000,000

people over sixty years of
age, of whom
m o r e t h a n
9,000,000 are
sixty-five years
and over. Sta-
tistics show, he
said, that we
are becoming
increasingly a
nation of elders,
and recreational
planning must
take account of
this fact. This
i m p o r t a n t
group of peo-
ple, many of
whom will re-
tire from em-

JANUARY 1945

Among its many other accomplishments.
the Chicago Recreation Commission has
held ten annual recreation conferences

At the Chicago Conference the discussed
the recreational needs of ol er people

 

ployment with the
close of the war, will
require increasing and
different kinds of rec-
reation than are now
generally offered. Games suitable for adult years,
adult clubs, parent-children clubs, and an expan-
sion of cultural recreation activities may be part
of the answer. Another part may be the prepara-
tion for the future old age group by an inculcation
in youth and young adults today of hobby inter-
ests, cultural interests, and other recreational
habits which will provide for their wise use of
leisure time throughout their lifetime.

These and other needed services will require,
Dr. Seman pointed out, a great expansion in rec-
reation leadership. “Schools and colleges should
undertake to train leadership for this leisure time
in far greater numbers than is now the case. There
should be in-service training for leaders now em-
ployed, and there must develop an increased ap-
preciation of recreation leadership as a vitally "a
necessary profession. T 0 this latter end recreation
leaders must begin to demand the respect due their
profession, and the public must also begin to
demand more and better leaders.

“In addition to professionally trained leadership,
increasing attention must be given to lay leader-
ship both as emergency and
temporary" aids in recrea-
tion agencies
and as long-
term assistants
to professional
recreation lead-
ers. Opportuni-
ties for training
should also be
given to per-
sons not ex-
pecting to lead
public groups
but desirous of
directing intel-
ligently their
children’s home
recreation.”

N ;  . ‘
. . A Q}
, §,...m

Philadelphia Council of Social Agcncie:

(Continued on
page 556)

 

529

What They Say

11 HILDREN NEED ENJOYMENr —- just plain
fun.”-——Rnth E. Murphy in Religious Edu-
cation. 0

“PeOple will be amused and they will play at
something. This is the necessary recreational ele-
ment in life. But how they will be amused and at
what they will play depends upon the patterns of
social behavior that are being formed in any given
community.”—H.' R. Home in This New Edu-
cation. «

“Leisure, like food, may contribute to our hap-
piness and well-being, or, ignorantly and glutton-
ously used, may destroy us.”—Owen D. Y 01mg.

“I want youth to have leisure to use and to be
taught how to use it in order that later they will
not regret having abused it.”-—Frances Slade.

“It is our business . . . to create the kind of play
life for children that makes wholesome, sound liv-
ing not only possible but natural and easy.”—From
Play: The Child’s Response to Life, by Altschiiler

and H einig.

“The art of living is one and indivisible. It is
not a composite art made by adding the art of play
to the art of work, or the art of leisure to the art
of recreation. . . . It becomes an art when work
and play, labor and leisure, mind and body, educa-
tion and recreation are governed by a single vision

I
of excellence and a continuous passmn for achlev-
ing it.”—L. P. Jacks.

“Know a country’s music, and you know its
history, its customs, and its people.”——.S‘panish
Proverb.

“Our principal interest now is in winning the
war, but when the war is over there will be many,
many things to think about. Among these recrea-
tion will find more‘serious obligations than ever
before. Now, while the war is raging, and even as
we attend to many urgent tasks, we must also
plan for the future.”-—Dr. Philip Seman.

“Grown men and women should occasionally
recapture the spirit of childhood to offset periods
of serious effort. . . . It is play they need in their

530

About Recreation

leisure time as well as creative hobbies and pur-
poseful activities.”-—Josephine L. Rathbone in
Relaxatioh.

“Get acquainted with a firefly. It is the shortest
way to become acquainted with a star.”—R0bert

P. Tristram C 0 flirt.

“Blessed is the man who is trained not only for
work but for play . . . not only for labor but for
leisure . . . who has stored within himself a num-
ber of simple skills and interests in games, hand-
crafts, music, drama, literature, nature, contem-
plation, comradeship; all these upon which to draw
for leisure hour happiness.”-—D0rothy Enderis.

“It is vital to find the way to balance suffering
with intense joy—then life will be full and com-
plete. Sometimes the interplay of suffering and

joy, like shadow and sunshine, make a vibrant, '

rich life out of which can grow the highest in art
and music.”——Le0pold Stokowski.

“How shall we play? Let it be with freedom,
with as little regimentation as possible. Let it be
expressive of fundamental, natural urges, desires,
and interests of human life.”—L. H. Weir.

“If boys and girls can learn to play together in
a normal, wholesome way; if girls can acquire
skills that will give joy throughout life; if some
headway is made in the fine art of getting along
with people; if tolerance and a genuine respect for
others is the by-product, then a leader may feel
that recreation in her club has been successful."—

Mollie H. Corm in It Pays to Play.

“A young girl should never play. She should
weep much and meditate on her sins.” -— Spoken
by a learned man in medieval Europe and quoted
by Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick.

“We now believe it is much better for the grass
to become yellow under the children’s feet than to
grow green over their graves.”——Howard C. Hill.

“Our way of living together in America is a
strong but delicate fabric. It is made up of many
threads woven over many centuries by the patience

and sacrifice of countless liberty-loving men and
women.”—Wendell L. W illkie.

RECREATION

Recreation—Glamourized!

LAMOUR is preferred
6 when Juvenile House
goes social. The best of

the teen-age canteens draw unto themselves the
allure and the imagination of commercialized
clubs. This means that decorations, entertainment,
soft drink bar, juke box or orchestra have a promi«
nent part in the program. Yet they are not in them-
selves the program of the community center’s can-

teen. They are, in a sense, the frosting on the
cake. It’s pretty and it’s tempting and it’s nice, but

IANUARY 1945

By LOUISE and JACOB ADLER
New York City

 

it would collapse without a
solid underpinning of sports
and games. The sports are not
competitive like basketball, but socializing like vol-
ley ball, with the teams taken from the general
group on the spur of the moment. Quiet and active
games are ready all the time, so that the moment
a member enters there is something to do.

The canteen is a sgcializing experience, and into
the ordinary dance 1s woven the party idea. This

(Continued on page 557)

Courtesy "You Saw I t in Seventeen”

531

Wartime Trends in Recreation

ECREATION IN AMERICA has undergone many
R changes. According to Dulles,l the early set-
tlers detested idleness, yet even these hard-
working people had some leisure. They developed
tavern sports, husking bees, fairs, races, shooting
matches, barn dances, and spent considerable time
hunting and fishing, also drinking and gambling.
However, for several centuries social life remained
relatively simple and popular diversions conformed
to familiar patterns. The niii’eteenth century reg-
istered new developments, especially physical edu-
cation. spectator sports, the theater, the circus, and
fashion fads. The cow towns and mining camps
of the new \Vest were known for their rough-and-
ready life, with excessive drinking, gambling, and
sometimes pistol shooting. The city was the
dynamic center of new leisure and of innovations
in entertainment, but the farm and countryside did
not remain untouched by the newer forms of rec-
reation.

Three new inventions that revolutionized recre-
ation—the automobile, the motion picture, and the
radio—came into prominence in the early part of
the twentieth century. Commercial amusements
expanded rapidly, outstripping community forms
of recreation. At the same time, the playground,
according to Rainwater,2 developed from the sim-
ple sand garden of 1885 into a unique American
institution, with indoor and outdoor facilities
open to, all groups the year round, with trained
leaders and a complex program of directed ac-
tivities, and with more clearly defined stand-
ards. Now the movement is national in scope,
including rural areas as well as cities, with em-
phasis on recreation rather than play, with a
program that is more closely integrated with
education, and with a fuller acceptance of rec-
reation as a public function.3

During the latter part of the 1920’s the
American people were spending ten billion d01-
lars a year for recreation,4 including nearly three
and a half billion dollars for automobile touring
and pleasure use of cars, and nearly two and a
quarter billion dollars for commercial amuse-

 

1 Foster R. Dulles. America Learn: to Play, 1940.

2 Clarence E. Rainwater, The Play Movement in the United

States, 1922. Traces the origin, stages, transitions, and trends
of the playground movement.

19‘4:()George Hjelte, The Administration of Public Recreation,

4 Jesse F. Steiner, Americans at Play, 1933.

532

 

By MARTIN H. NEUMEYER
The University of Southern California

ments. The bulk of the expenditure was for
traveling and for commercial recreation. The
growth of parks and playgrounds, the greater use
of outdoor life for recreation, the increase of sports
and games, and greater social organization in the
field of leisure were other significant develop-
ments. During the depression of the 1930’s, when
there was a depletion of financial resources and
an increase of leisure time, home activities in-
creased extensively.5 Outside activities increased
slightly, especially those of a social and cultural
nature, but commercial amusements suffered a
noticeable decline. Since 1940 the war has pro-
duced profound changes in the use of leisure.

Main Types of Recreation

In a broad sense recreational activities, at least
from the standpoint of organization, may be
broadly classified into three, or possibly four, main
types, with subdivisions thereof:
(1) the spontaneous and semi-or-
ganized, as found in homes and in

5Leuure Hours of 5000 People, National
Recreation Association, 1934.

RECREATION

Trends in recrea
changing social

ments will inevi’r
or peace. the cf

 

re-directed with
rd new develop-
ded. but in war
go on dancing!

informal groups, and the recreation provided by
voluntary organizations, principally for members,
such as athletic and social clubs, fraternal orders,
labor organizations, and similar groups; (2) the
commercial enterprises organized for profit to pro-
vide amusement and entertainment, principally for
spectators, or to deal in commodities required in
leisure; and (3) the governmental and non-gov-
ernmental forms of community recreation. Much
of our leisure is spent in informal ways, such as
listening to the radio, reading, talking, visiting, en-
tertaining others, and in the pursuit of various
hobbies and pastimes. The greatest amount of
money is expended on commercial amusements.
The c0mmunal forms of recreation are usually the
most constructive with active participation and cre-
ative or recreative uses of leisure designed to en-
rich personality. ,

Listening to the radio seems to be the most out-
standing form of leisure activity today. With 912
standard broadcasting stations and over 5 7,000.0006
receivers in the United States alone, the American
public turns to the radio for entertainment, news,
and enlightenment. At least 32,500,000 homes are
equipped with one or more receivers each. The
total listening has increased rapidly since the be-
ginning of the war. The most popular types of
programs are drama, audience participation, music,
and. news. All of the most popular individual pro-
grams stress entertainment.

Reading, which was so prominent
as a leisure activity during the de-

 

6 1944 Broadcasting Yearbook.

 

Courtesy American School Board I ouer

JANUARY 1945

 

It is exceedingly valuable to be able to find
in one article information about the various
developments -— under privateI public, and
Federal auspices—which have made this war-
time period so significant tor the recreation '
movement as a whole.

Dr. Neumeyer has made an important con-
tribution in his comprehensive summary which
appeared in the May-June I944 issue of
Sociology and Social Research. Extracts from
Dr. Neumeyer's article are reprinted here by
permission.

 

pression," has declined somewhat during recent
years. The drop is mostly among adults, for chil-
dren and young people are using the library as
much as they ever did, and sometimes more. Calls
for books dealing with war, including war fiction,
and those dealing with postwar planning exceed all
other demands. . . . Books, maps, and atlases deal-
ing with Latin America, Russia, China, and India
have enjoyed a vogue for several years. . . . There
is a sustained demand for technical books, and
practical reading is fairly common. The reading
of light novels and nonfiction purely for entertain-
ment has dropped. Children read books on war
subjects, especially those on air fighters and avia-
tion, as well as Alice in Wonderland and The Call
of the MGM, which children have always liked.
Commercial amusements are again gaining in
popularity. Motion picture theaters continue to be
the leading commercial amusement centers in
America, with a‘total estimated weekly attendance
of approximately 90,000,000. Bowling alleys
have been popular for several years, dance halls
are crowded, and other commercial concerns
report gains.

Recreation for Serviceman

The most noticeable trends in recreation per-
tain to the activities in behalf of servicemen and
women, and to a lesser extent the programs for
war workers. There are also some signs of ex-
pansion of recreation for the civilians not iden-
tiiied directly with the war effort. This is
particularly true in areas where citizens have
become aware of juvenile neglect and of the
rising tide of delinquency.

During World War I the federal government,
under the personal direction of President Wood-
row Wilson, organized the Council of National '
Defense, with a comprehensive network of state

 

7 Compare Leisure Hours of 5000 People.

533

534 lVARTIME 'TRENDS IN RECREATION

 

and local community councils of defense.8 The
National Recreation Association, then the Play—
ground and Recreation Association of America, in
cooperation with the Council of National Defense
promoted the War Camp Community Service,
which organized the social and recreation resources
of over 650 communities near military centers and
war industry districts. The service organizations,
such as the American Red Cross, Salvation Army,
and the Young Men’s Christian Association, pro—
vided recreation for servicemen both at home and
abroad. While they conducted united financial

campaigns and cooperated in other ways, they.

functioned more or less independently without a
thoroughly integrated program. ’

Today the recreation needs of servicemen and.
women, and to a lesser extent of war workers, are
provided chiefly by three types of organized sys-
tems: (I) the recreation facilities and services pro-
vided directly by the personnel of the armed forces,
mostly in military centers; (2) the work of the
United Service Organizations (USO), together
with affiliated agencies, and the American Red
Cross; and (3) community agencies, both public
and private, not directly affiliated with the other
two types of services.

The Athletic and Recreation Branch, Special
Services Division, United States Army, has con-
structed recreation halls, theaters, libraries, com-
pany playrooms, and other facilities, and has de-
veloped a program of welfare and recreation ser-
vices for men in training camps, at island bases, in
task, and on army transports. The United States
Navy, through the recreation section of the Bureau

Recreation for servicemen and
women has been an outstanding
development in the war period,
and clubs. similar to that in
Orlando. FloridaI have sprung
into existence everywhere

of Naval Personnel, maintains
somewhat similar services as does
the United States Marine Corps.°
Wherever possible, the services
go with the men. For instance,
the Army has prepared various
kits for recreation, including ath-
letic, music, library, motion pic-
ture, handcraft, and other supplies.
Short-wave radio programs are broadcast for the
benefit of troops overseas, and transcriptions of
other programs are made available to them. Mo-
tion pictures and theatricals are taken to the ser-
vicemen wherever they are in sufficient numbers.
To carry on the recreation services, the Army

alone has 5,000 trained personnel and 10,000 en—
listed men.10

The American Red Cross is the authorized
civilian agency to provide most of the recreation,
as well as other forms of services in Army and
Navy hospitals. The hOSpitalized person with en-
forced leisure, and with the additional strain of
illness and the accompanying worry, needs relaxa-
tion and rejuvenation that generally come from
recreation. The recreation equipment consists of
buildings or floors, varying in sizes, “with auditori-
ums and stages, library and reading facilities, writ-
ing places, lounging and guest rooms, and staff
quarters. The activities are adjusted to individual
needs and are usually an integral part of the medi—
calssocial service program.11

The United Service Organizations (USO) rep—
resents the joint efforts of six organizations” to

\

8 An_un'published manuscript summarizing the publications and
other Significant material pertaining to the “Organization of the
Community Councils of Defense by the Federal Government—

World War I” has been prepared by Edward L. Burchard,
Chicago Recreation Commission.

9 See Fred K. Koehler, “Services for Men in the Armed Forces,"
Social Service Review, Vol. XVI, September, 1942.

10 Statement by Col. Theodore P. Bank, Chief, Athletic and
Recreation Branch, Special Services Division, U. S. Army. See

Proceedings of the Ninth Annual Chicago Recreation Conference,
November 12, 1943.

11 See Carolyn J. Nice, “Recreation in Army and Navy Hos-
pitals,” RECREATION, Vol. XXXVII, July, 1943.

12 Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., National Catholic Community Service,
Salvation Army, Jewish Welfare Board, and National Travelers
Aid Association.

RECREATION

 

 

WARTIME TRENDS IN RECREATION 535

promote and provide services of a religious, social,
and recreational character for members of the
armed forces. Except for the USO-Camp Shows,
Inc., and with minor exceptions, the primary re-
sponsibility of the USO is to serve members of the
armed forces outside military reservations when
off duty and on leave, and in some areas of war

fihdustries where special services are required. The

main operations are recreation, entertainment,
hostel accommodation, education, and welfare. In
addition, religious services are conducted in club-
houses, station lounges, information centers, hos-
tels, and mobile units.

The USO operates where the Army and Navy
permit it to operate. Thus far, the services have

been confined to the Western Hemisphere, except '

for the USO-Camp Shows, Inc., which has gone
.overseas. The American Red Cross carries on
overseas duties. The USO and the American Red
Cross have coordinated the services, both in camps
and outside camps, and they operate jointly in
some centers.13 .

The war deveIOped so rapidly that many
communities were unprepared to take care
of the large infiux of servicemen and
women, war workers, and their families.
The federal government set up several
agencies,to assist state and local groups
to organize for defense, welfare, and rec-
reation needs, of which the Office of Civil-
ian Defense and the Office of Defense
Health and Welfare Services, both Fed-
eral Security Agency divisions, were out-
standing. The Office of Civilian Defense
organized state and local defense c0uncils,
or war councils as they are called in some
areas, for the purpose of defense and wel-
fare, of which local recreation committees
are important units.“ The Office of De-
fense Health and Welfare Services like-
wise was authorized to set up local recre-
ation groups. By Executive Order (No.
9338, dated April 29, 1943) this Office
became the Office of Community War
Service, with a Division of Recreation to
carry on the recreation function through

Sports and athletics—only one of the
many varied forms of recreation being
provided for men in the armed services

I ANUARY 1945

 

field representatives in twelve regions and three
territories. They render technical consultation ser-
vice at any stage in the planning of recreation
facilities and programs, chiefiy by helping com-
munities to help themselves or by assisting them
to get aid in the form of funds, facilities, services,
and leadership.

Under the Lanham Act, the Federal Works Ad-
ministration was given authority to endorse the
release of funds for grants to communities for the
construction, maintenance, and operation of recre-
ation facilities for armed forces and war workers
when it is demonstrated that the need cannot be-
met by other public or private funds.

Industrial Recreation
There has been a “tremendous increase in interest

13_]oint statement of the American Red Cross and the United
Servxce Organizations.

14 Recreation in LVartime: A Manual for Recreation Committees
of Local Defense Councils, Office of Civilian Defense, May, 1943.
This is one of a series of manuals for local Defense Council com-
mittees in the field of Civilian War Services.

"a, «tuggw
.4 x
1.  -..... new Jamar-yawm. f‘.

Courtesy Recreation Commission, Long Beach, Calif.

536 WARTIME TRENDS IN RECREATION ‘

in industrial rec- |
reation, displayed
by employers, em-
ployees, and labor l
union groups.”15
The “swing” and
“graveyard” shifts
are of special con—
cern, as reported '
by various organi—
zations. Closely
tied up with the
industrial ques-
tion are the need
_.  , «. »  for and interest in l
- child care, both all-
day and after—
school, of which

In spite of the lack of trained per- recreation is an I
. ' 18
sonnel and adequate equlpment. and Important Part—

in the face of tremendous diiil'icultiesI
every effort has been made to pro-

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Use of Schools

vide the civilian populations of our An increase in
cities with the recreation activities the use Of SChOOl
necessary to relieve wartime tensions faculties: bOth in"
and strains. Such programs as that door and OUtdQOI’,
promoted bythe Minneapolis Park De- f0 1' Communlty

recreation is a
promising trend.
School boards
have registered a
delinite interest in
this movement. I
The High School '
Victory Corps is -
making progress,
as reported by the
United States Of-
Iice of Education, _
especially in Edu-
cation for Victory.
The United States

Ohice of Civilian
Defense through

partment are doing much to help keep
lite normal for children and adults.

15 Reported by Vir-
ginia Musselman, Cor--
respondence and Con-
sultation Service. Na-
tional Recreation Asso-
ciation, who also indi-
cated some of the other
trends reported in this-
paper.

16 Recreation and
Other Activities in the
A 11-Day School Program, .
Leaflet No. 7, U.S. 0f-
Photos by Walter Dahlberg Courtesy Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners tice of Education, 1943.

RECREATION I

 

PVARTIME TRENDS IN RECREATION

 

Another important development has been the
provision of recreation for war workers and their
families. A worker from the Los Angeles Play-
ground and Recreation Department organized
play activities for these children and other resi-
dents of the Ramona Gardens Housing Proiec’r.

its Citizens Service Corps
has established the Junior
Citizens Service Corps,
giving children a chance
to participate more di-
rectly in the national
defense wdrk.

Teen-Age Centers

Teen-age clubs have been sponsored by various
adult groups, and some have sprung up independ-
ent of adult leadership. They are self-motivated
groups, allowing greater participation by the young
people themselves than is true in more formally
organized clubs. However, often there is a lack of
planned programs, with the members doing pretty
much what they please. Dancing is one of the main
activities. Teen centers of the “dry night club”
variety are springing up under various types of
sponsorship, some of which are loosely organized
and may disappear soon, while others may lead to
more planned programs and may become perma-
nently established. The Youth Hostel movement
has apparently suffered a decline throughout the
world, except in Great Britain. ‘

Activities of Churches and Other Groups

Churches have expanded their recreation pro-
grams for servicemen and women, also for war
Workers and their families. Local church groups
do a considerable amount of entertaining, both in
the church and in the homes of members. National
church bodies have been particularly sensitive to
the problems of Americans on the move.

The national group work agencies have adjusted

JANUARY 1945

their programs to pro-
vide more time in their
recreation schedule for
special groups. In addi-
tion to the work in con-
nection with the USO-
and other war service agencies, seven youth-serv-
ing agencies have formed the Associated Youth-
Serving Organizations for the purpose of extend-
ing greater service to young people. At the local

level there are increasing interagency cooperation

and_ joint activity. Day camping is one of the best
examples of this.

Because of the demand for participation in the
war effort, recreation has sometimes been sacri-
ficed in the interest of community service and edu-
cation in international friendship. The rise of juve-
nile delinquency has been given special considera-
tion, but there is a question in the minds of leaders
as to how far character—building groups should go
in dealing with delinqency.

Home play seems to be on the increase, as evi-
denced by the increased inquiry for material to aid ‘
families in providing their own recreation. As gas
rationing continues, it is expected that this trend
will become increasingly more pronounced. Closely
associated with this trend is the increase of neigh-
borhood activities, especially in places where the
“block plan” of organization has been tried. Even
small towns and communities are showing an in-
creased interest in developing local recreation.
There is a growing awareness of this need.

More significant than this new interest is the

growth of community organization, which re-

ceived an impetus during the depression and which

538 WARTIME TRENDS IN RECREATION

has gained in momentum during the war period.
Community or coordinating councils, as well as the
new local recreation groups and defense organiza—
tions, represent a forward step in joint and co—
operative efforts. The National War Fund, with
its $125,000,000 goal, of which $61,277,000 was
earmarked for USO, the united Red Cross, and
other war drives are evidences of cooperative ef-
forts, much of which is on the local level.

The National Recreation Association, in the
Year Book summaries published in RECREATION,
reports the extent of recreation facilities, pro-
grams, and services in American towns, cities, and
counties, including school playgrounds. The June,
1943, issue shows that 1,075 cities had supervised
play centers, with 19,557 separate play areas.
Communities intensified their efforts to meet the
recreation needs of the rapidly expanding war
effort, and this had to be done at a time when it
became necessary to replace experienced workers
lost to military and civilian war services. Over 100
superintendents alone left their posts in 1942 to
help with the recreation programs of the armed
forces and other war efforts. The loss of trained
executives and other per-
sonnel, the discontinuance
of the WPA recreation

project, and the increased

Youth and its wartime problems have come in
for a large share otlattentionI and teen-age
clubs and recreation centers for youth have

demand for public recreation in some centers
necessitated a Wider use of volunteers.

Recreation and the War

The first shock of the war had both positive and
negative effects on playground and park activities.
In the dimout areas the evening activities had to
be curtailed. Since the dimout has been lifted, eve-
ning playground activities have increased slowly
but steadily. In some places parks and playgrounds
were taken over by the armed forces for military
and other purposes; however, most of them have
been restored to the communities. The physical
fitness program, which was emphasized even before
our ‘entrance into the war, has produced little
public enthusiasm, eSpecially since many of the
young men who were interested have now gone
into military service. The absence of young men
has also had a telling effect on other playground
activities, notably the sports program, which wit-
nessed a sharp decline at first but which has picked
up steadily since the early months of the war. In
the regions of intense war activities, playground
and park facilities have been used constantly for
the servicemen and women
and for the war workers.
While the recreation bud-
gets throughout the country

sprung up in both large and small cities

 

RECREATION

WARTIME TRENDS IN RECREATION 539

have been maintained without great increases,
cities like Long Beach, San Diego, and Seattle
have found it necessary to increase their recreation
budgets to meet the new needs. Playgrounds have
intensified their programs for teen-age groups,
especially in areas of population concentration and
of increased delinquency. Adults, however, have
less time for participation in community recrea-
tion. Some have found recreation in volunteer war

Interior reports” a rapid decline of attendance in
national and state parks; it has fallen off every—
where except in parks convenient to large centers
of population or those used by military forces. In
some parks the attendance dropped 70 and even
over 80 per cent.

In 1941, when the National Park Service com-
pleted twenty-five years of service, this single gov-
ernment agency had custody of 164 units, with a
combined area of 21,609,289 acres. While con-
struction and development in parks have practi-
cally ceased for the duration, activities havebeen
restricted, and someoparks have been closed and
still others are devoted wholly or in part to mili-
tary use as Army rest camps, it is expected that
attendance in parks will increase as soon as the
war is over and gas rationing is lifted.

- Need for Leadership

Everywhere the great need just now is for
trained leadership. Both public and private agen-
cies of recreation have lost heavily, especially in
trained executives and personnel. Most agencies
have intensified their efforts to recruit volunteers
and have established new training courses for them.
During last summer there were more campers and
there was more money for camping than ever
before, but there were fewer available facilities and
trained personnel. The camp staffs, specially of
boys’ camps, were younger and less experienced.
Many of the counselors were under eighteen years
of age. Staff instability was a great problem. Day
camps have been operated more extensively, making
it possible to use the limited staff more fully over
a longer period of time.

The war is bringing about a redefinition of rec-
reation and a reappraisal of' its place in modern
society. Recreation has come to mean more of the
informal and spectator types of activities and less

 

17 Annual reports of the Director of the National Park Service’

for 1941 and 1942, with supplementary reports for 1943.

JANUARY 1945

of the active, re-creative or creative types. The
increased listening to the radio and the growing
popularity of movies, stage shows, and other more
or less passive forms of amusement are evidences
of this trend.

There is a growing acceptance of recreation as a
vital public necessity by military, political, and
other leaders of the country, and there is a cor-
responding new public interest in providing rec-
reation facilities for both civilians and servicemen
and women. Various official bodies, from Congres—
sional commissions to mayors’ committees, have
adopted resolutions or statements favoring the
wider assumption of public responsibility for rec-
reation. o

Postwar planning for recreation, or “long-range
planning” as some prefer to call it, has received
considerable attention. The specialists in the Na—
tional Recreation Association have far more re—
quests than they can handle from cities and towns
seeking guidance in planning for the future. Park
officials, city and regional planning commissions,
and professional recreation leaders anticipate a
continued interest, if not an increase of interest, in
recreation after the war. It is difficult to predict
what direction this interest will take, and the plan-
ning for the anticipated need is beset with many
difficulties; but the trends in recreation indicated
in this article, and others too numerous to mention,
point to an increase of leisure, the continued popu—
larity of amusements, aan the acceptance of recrea—
tion as a public responsibility.

Among the many trends in wartime recreation,
the increase of radio listening, the growing popu-
larity of commercial amusements and entertain-
ment for spectators, the great interest in providing
recreation services for the armed forces and for
war workers, and the increase of community proe
visions for recreation are outstanding. The fed-
eral government has taken an active part in
providing facilities and programs of recreation for
servicemen and women and has organized commu-
nities for this purpose. Reading library books,
traveling for pleasure, visiting parks, and to some
extent engaging in communal forms of recreation
are definitely on the decline. Service activities have
taken the place of some of the leisurely kinds of
recreation. The outstanding need in the field of
recreation is leadership. Postwar planning for rec-
reation must take into account this need and find
means' for training for peacetime programs the
leadership which has functioned during wartime.

On the Edge of the Strand

'1‘ IS MONDAY evening in Long

I Beach, California—just any
Monday evening—but there

is a stir and a bustle of activity
that betokens something going
on. Definitely something is in
the air. The famous Pike is

alive with people of all ages,
all sizes, both sexes. Men, women, and children

are hurrying to the huge auditorium by the sea.
Monday is community sing night.

The great building fills up quickly with typical
' Americans. The usual buzz of typically Ameri-
can, anticipatory conversation lills in the time until
that moment when the conductor steps on stage
and gives the signal for all these people to raise
their voices and sing—long, loud, and merrily.

The conductor makes his appearance. Gradually,
as more and more peOple see him, the hall quiets.
There is a brief moment of pause before the great
throng stands to sing America—and make it ring
to the highest point of the vaulted roof. The
Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag is almost a roar
as each member of the crowd murmurs it. Then,
preliminaries over, words are flashed on the screen

and the program begins.

Here are all the old familiar songs Americans
have loved and sung for generations. Here is Little
Annie Rooney, The Good Old Summer Time,
Juanita, Let Me Call You Sweetheart, and Home
on the Range. An hour of song, of happiness and
pleasure, comes to an end with God Bless America.

The singing is followed by a program of enter-
tainment. The program is varied. The entertain-
ers, may be members Of the community or‘ “visiting
firemen.” There may be song and dance specialists,
monologists, school bands, soloists, or clever skits.
They have in common a delight in their art and
the satisfaction of an audience especially enthusi-
astic because they, too, are part of the program.
Here are no apathetic auditorium-chair critics, but
“fellow” performers.

The evening is not yet over.
In fact, the main thrill is yet
to come. The old timers—and
others not so old—go for the
Old time dance in a big way.
The ample iioor of the audi-

540

By THEODORE H. HARLOW

"It's all for fun. Whatever the social
values to be gained through commu-
nity singingI the primary purpose must
be the immediate enjoyment of it.
Without that, it cannot exist at all."

"Direct your efforts into channels that
will take advantage of 'music's power to

unify, to make happier homes. a happier
cityI and' a happier world.' " was the

challenge from the meeting
Role in Recreation," held at the tenth

annual Chicago Recreation Conference.

torium is cleared almost in the
twinkling Of an eye. A string
orchestra appears, as if by
magic. The Grand March forms
to the left, eager to get going.
For the dancing there are no
age limits. White haired danc-
ers of sixty, seventy, eighty,
and up, jostle teen-agers who are content for the
nonce, at least, to forego the pleasures of jitter-
bugging to learn the dances their great-grand-
mothers loved. Current jazz is out. Waltzes, schot-
tisches, perhaps a Virginia Reel, are in—- with a
bang.

And so, another community evening ends—with
a good time enjoyed by all—without money. with-
out price. For, long ago, even the custom of pass-
ing the hat was abandoned. This is just a project
of the Long Beach Recreation Commission con-
tributing to the welfare and happiness of the com-
munity.

It’s fun—and a great showl

That music is fun and belongs to all peOple and
ought, therefore, to be made available to the great-

est possible number of persons of all ages, was the ‘

keynote of the meeting devoted to discussion Of
“Music’s Role in Recreation” held during the tenth
annual Chicago Recreation Conference, November
22, 1944.

To arrive at ways to expand and (multiply the
opportunities within the city for participation in
musical activities and to coordinate the efforts Of
the many groups and individuals working toward
that end were the objectives of the two-hour dis-
cussion, presided over by Max Targ, a director Of
the Music War Council of America, and a member
of the executive committee of the Choral and In-
strumental Music Association Of Chicago. Over
150 leaders Of musical thought and activity in the
city took part in the meeting, the first in the history
of the Annual Chicago Recre-
ation Conference to be de-
voted entirely to music.

The following points brought
out during the discussion
were agreed upon as a basis

for further planning:
(Continued on page 558)

RECREATION

on "Music's

l
l

l

. fore me. They had driven 125

A Nature University

on a morning in early May
that I drove into the Kel-
logg Wild Life Sanctuary
above Battle Creek, Michi-
gan. Early as it was, I found
a high school class there be-

IT was ABOUT eight o’clock

miles from Ecorse and were
having a picnic breakfast
around a fire they had kindled
on the far side of the lake
which is the center of the sanctuary. After break-
fast, before returning to the museum and the 200,
they spent about two hours under the direction of
Dr. Pirney, the superintendent, in observing how
the various wild things were adjusting themselves
to the environment and their neighbors, making
their nests, and securing their living.

As we started back toward the headquarters, we
were met by a first grade teacher coming in with
her class of about thirty little folks. They were

noisily delighted with the ducks and geese and ’

swans swimming in the lake.

At the headquarters we found a parent-teach-
ers' association that had driven down from Grand
Rapids, about fifty miles, for a half—day at the
sanctuary.

Scarcer had we reached the office when the
telephone rang.
The game war-
den from an ad-
joining county
wanted to know
if he might come

In this open space
on the Huron
River. where the
park offers pro-
tection and the
swift current pre-
_vents freezing.
the ducks remain
all winter long

JANUARY 1945

By HENRY S. CURTIS

 

"Why not a nature university?" queries can.
Dr. Curtis. And he pictures the fasci-

nating features which should be included
in a sanctuary designed to be the home
of many varieties of plant and animal lifeI
and at the same time a place for obser-
vation and study. and the center of
teaching for the district in which it lies. D1.

 

over in the afternoon for a
conference. Within fifteen
minutes there was another
A teacher of biology
from a high school about a
hundred miles away wished
to know if she might bring
her class up for the after-
noon.

. Pirney tells me this
was not an unusual morning.

Some Existing Sanctuaries

The Kellogg Sanctuary is maintained by the
Kellogg Foundation, created some years ago by
W. K. Kellogg of breakfast food fame, but staffed
and directed by the Michigan State college with
Dr. Pirney and one assistant in charge. It has two
residences, a small museum, a small zoo, and about
one hundred acres of ground lying about a rather
marshy lake. It is in a sparsely settled area about
iifteen miles from Battle Creek, the nearest city of
any considerable size. It is visited extensively by
all southern Michigan.

There is another sanctuary in this area that is
still better known. It is the Jack Miner Sanctuary
below Windsor in Ontario. In speaking in the high
schools in the area about Detroit, I have often
found that the class in science had gone in one of

 

541

542 A NATURE UNIVERSITY

the school busses to visit this sanctuary. It usually
meant a trip of about one hundred miles, and a
toll fare at the bridge or tunnel leading to Canada.

In talking with Dr. Cody, Superintendent of the
Schools of Detroit, he said to me, “If there were
such a sanctuary anywhere in our metropolitan
region within twenty-five miles of Detroit with a
good representation of our wild life, I would send
every class out once a year to get acquainted.”

As an interest in birds and animals is one of the
first interests to develop in a young child, nature
study should be one of the first forms of learning
to receive attention. This past winter we had a
visit from one of our grandsons, about three years
of age. Every day he wanted to walk over to the
University Museum to see the bears in a den out—
side. It was about a half-mile walk each way and
often the weather was bitterly cold. On his return
to Kansas City he wanted to tell everybody about
the bears.

In the Metropolitan Park system of Cleveland
there are three trailside museums with a naturalist
in charge. These museums are equipped to show
colored lantern slides of the birds, flowers, and
trees of the area, and classes come out from the
Cleveland schools both morning and afternoon to
go over the trails, visit the museums, and listen to
the talks.

The original idea of a sanctuary is a place where
game is protected. In this way all of our cities be-
come sanctuaries and most of them support many
squirrels, rabbits, and even pheasants. It is hard
to see how they survive with all the dogs and cats
that the city maintains, but.they seem to manage
somehow.

All city, state, and national parks become sanctu-
aries in this sense of being places where hunting is
not permitted. One may see dozens of wild ducks
at almost any time in Central Park, New York,
while the numbers may run to many thousands in
Lake Merritt, Berkeley, California. If you are out
in a boat on one of the lakes of Los Angeles, many
ducks and geese will often crowd about your boat
and take food from your hand.

One of the great advantages of the sanctuary is
that the children of the wild soon cease to be wild
and become tame enough to be observed. Some
summers ago, in a walking trip across the Adiron-
dacks, I came upon a sanctuary in the forest. It
was unfenced, and its boundaries were hard to
determine, but a doe and her fawn loafed for some
time within a rod of me entirely unafraid. The
warden told me that when the hunting season

began many deer came in from the forest for miles
around. It seems uncanny how soon the wild
creatures sense that they are in a protected area.
We were told at Asheville, North Carolina, some
years ago when we were visiting there, that hunt—
ing was not allowed on the great Vanderbilt estate
of some fifty thousand acres, mostly woods, lying
a few miles outside the city. The estate was
fenced, but it was said that if a deer was startled
in the area not too far away, it generally made for
the Vanderbilt place and leaped the fence to safety.
The mountaineers became so angry about it that
they had set the woods on fire two or three times.
However, the idea of protection is less and less
spoken of as the sanctuary ideal develops. It is
still essentialkbut more and more the emphasis is
on the sanctuary as a place of observation, study,
and teaching. The sanctuary I have in mind would
not be the home of animal life alone but of many
varieties of plant life as well, and the center of the
nature teaching of the area, with nature camps and
conferences in summer. It would require a more
elaborate equipment than is found anywhere at

present.

Equipment

The first requirement for this sanctuary would
be from one thousand to five thousand acres of
land which should contain hills and valleys,
marshes, lakes, and small streams—a combination
that would not be diflicult to find in Michigan. It

. would be essentially cheap land that need not cost

much if it were not too close to a great city. Of
course, the nearer the sanctuary is to a large popu—
lation, the larger the attendance will be, but as has
been shown from the Kellogg and Jack Miner
Sanctuaries, in normal times, when tires do not
forbid, a considerable distance is not prohibitive.
At the headquarters there should be houses for
the staff, hostels for youth on bicycles, dormitories
for visiting classes and summer conferences, labora-
tories, a nature library, classrooms, lecture halls
for slides, a museum of the fauna and flora of the
area, and a small zoo. On the side, there should

, be a place for trailers and camping, and somewhere

in the interior there might be a Waldon Cottage or
Slabsides for students or professors with special
problems to work out. There should be nature
trails leading out in various directions from the

headquarters.
An arboretum of a hundred acres or so would

be desirable, though not strictly necessary to the
(Continued on page 552)

RECREATION

it’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Gap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

” I C Y CLIN G,” by Ruth and Raymond Bene-
dict. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

$1.25.

Botany. Volume II of Leroy Abrams’ “Illus-
trated Flora of the Pacific States.” Stanford Uni-
versity Press. $7.50. Thirty-five plant familiesin
all. Two more volumes are in preparation.

Camping. “How to Survive on Land and Sea,”
. issued by the Aviation Training Division, Office
of the Chief of Naval Operations, US. Navy. 264

pp. $2.00.

Camping. “Boys in Men’s Shoes,” by Harry E.
Burroughs. Macmillan Co., New York. The
achievements, aims, and scope of Boston’s famous
Borroughs Newsboys Foundation and its affiliated
Agassiz Village in the wilds of Maine.

Food Fights for freedom. The George Wash-
ington Carver Club of the Bruton Heights School
in Williamsburg, Virginia, is intensely interested
in farming problems in their own community. The
fifty members have initiated a “Food Fights for
Freedom” campaign. Busy with poultry raising,
plowing for Victory gardens, meat and poultry
canning, they plan to inform the community of the
results of their experiments and work.

“Geology for Everyman,” by Albert Seward.
Macmillan Company, New York. 312 pp. Illus—
trated. $3.25.

Insect Zoo at Boston
Children’s Museum. Miss
Alice Kendall, founder and
curator of the Insect Zoo,
writes, “Something new in
the Live Museum—an In-
sect Zoo. ‘What is this?’
asks Billy, holding up a jar
with a tiny black occupant.
To him even a cricket is
something new under the
sun. So we began with

JANUARY 1945

"When frost has put an end to the flowers'
and the trees and shrubs are stripped of
their foliage in these northern climes. it is
generally considered that the beauty of
the parks and public gardens has completely
departed until spring returns. . . . But oc-
casionally we do get intense beauty in our
parks during the winter season. when hoar-
trost creates a tairyland of beauty by en-
crusting every branch and twig with spark-
ling crystals, . and every evergreen leaf
with a rim of silver." — William R.
Reader in Parks and Recreation.

crickets and grasshoppers, a ladybug beetle and
daddy longlegs. When bumble bees are encased in
the Zoo, they find butter-and-eggs provided for
them, a monarch caterpillar feels so much at home
that shortly after his arrival he suspends himself,
preparing to demonstrate the mystery of his ‘house
with gold nails.’ Now come lacewing flies, horn-
tails, and a butterfly that nobody knows and it is
the staff member’s turn to say, ‘What is it ?’ as she
retreats to the library and scans the insect volumes.
Lately, by the information desk a tray has ap-
peared with a row of Insect Zoo specimens. "Tell
me their names again,’ says John pointing a small
finger at each one. Then he repeats their names,
pausing to smile at the little butterfly nobody
knew. ‘This,’ he says, ‘is Phyciodes.’ ”

“Jefferson and Agriculture,” compiled and
edited by Everett E. Edwards. U. S. Department
of Agriculture, Bureau of Agricultural Economics,
Washington, D. C. Single copies free as long as
the supply lasts.

“Je5erson, Thomas, Soil Conservationist,”
U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C. (Agriculture Department, Misc. Pub. 548)
I 5 pp. Illustrated. IO cents. Single copies free from
Soil Conservation Service as long as supply lasts.

M ops. “Down to Earth: Mapping for Every-
body,” by David Greenwood.
Holiday House, New York.
262 pp., Illustrated. $4.00.
Nature Facts. Horned
toads and grass snakes are
not toads or snakes, but
lizards. Neither is a silver-

iish, jellyfish, starfish, shell-
fish, or blackfish a fish.

Salamanders of North
America. “ Handbook of
Salamanders,” by Sherman
C. Bishop. Comstock Pub-

lishing Company. $5.00.

543

WORLD AT PLAY

“A NEW ultra musical

show centered around the

dance band is now in
~ progress. It will give you
many a minute of sheer enjoyment. You will also
see the inner workings of musical secrets and
styles graphically displayed. Lieuts. Ward, Schank
and Brady are writing and arranging most of the
numbers. . . . The new hotel-style ‘Society Band’
will tease you with sweet rhythmic interpretations
of erstwhile popular tunes—new to the center
camp theater audiences. By way of other musical
activities, ‘Delta Delights,’ an all-American min-
strel show, is well into the casting stage.”

“On Wednesday next, the Debate Hour . . . will
feature members of our administrative staff, Cols.
Spivey and Kennedy versus Stillman and Aring on
the question of their own choosing: Resolved:
‘The Refusal to Participate in a Public Debate
Indicates a Lack of Community Spirit.’ . . . Two
variety shows, Charlie’s Aunt, two classic pro-
grams and weekly forum lectures have been the
record of our entertainment since the English left
us the first of January.”

These are excerpts from a camp newspaper,
produced by hand and typewriter, and- issued via
bulletin board three times each week. On Sunday
the publication is graced with colored cartoons.
The camp is Stalag Luft III, somewhere in Ger-
many where, according to the American Red
Cross, forty-five hundred American airmen are
held as prisonersof war. The publishers and con-
tributors to the newspaper are among them. Their

record of recreation is rather impressive under the
circumstances.

Where’er They
Walk

 

THE TEEN—AGE club for
white youngsters in Dan-
ville, Virginia is known
as TAC—alphabetese for
Tomorrow’s American Citizens. In addition to
games and dancing (daily except Sunday from
3 :30 to 6:00 and from 8:00 to 10:30 P.M.), TAC
operates a lively week-end program. Eight plays
(two of them full-length), a War Bond Circus, a
country dance, community sing, roller-skating,
tea party for parents, keep things humming when
school’s out from Friday to Monday.

“Club 553” in Saint Paul, Minnesota, has a Sun-

Program Notes for
Teen-Agers

 

544

day Evening Salon open to the public. The pro-
gram for 1944-45 includes musicals, a special cele-
bration of Children’s Book Week, book reviews,
lectures on the American Negro and on South
America. For its weeknight meetings the Club is
open to members only from 8 to 10 Wednesday
and from 8 to I I :30 Friday.

THE U. S. Treasury De-

A National V-Mail . . .
partment is sponsoring a

Letter Contest

V-Mail Letter Contest,'4

the subject of which is
“W hat we here at school are doing to help bring
you home sooner.” Any junior or senior high
school paper is invited to sponsor a contest to
select V-mail letters actually sent overseas. If
printed in a high school publication or a local
neWSpaper, the letters may then be submitted in
the national contest. Letters may be submitted up
to January 27, 1945, to Mr. Earl Whitbeck, presi-
dent of the Columbia Scholastic Press Association,
214 South Third Street, Mechanicville, New York.
This Week Magazine will award three War Bond
prizes of $100, $50, and $25 for the three winning
letters selected by the j udges—Dorothy Thompson,
Bob H0pe, Mark Van Doren, and Sidney Whipple.

ONE of'the more inter-
esting celebrations mark-
ing Book Week—inter-
H esting because it made
use of that tantalizing medium, television—was put
on in Schenectady. WRGB, General Electric’s
television station, presented a composite program
of motion picture film taken at the Schenectady
library, and studio dramatizations of Jack and the
Beanstalk and a scene in the bookshop of John

Newberry who, 200 years ago, published as the
first children’s book, A Little Pretty Pocket-Book.

Foot Note to Book
Week

ONCE upon a time there
was an old broken-down
telescope that lived in the
General Electric Plant at
Pittsiield. Today that old, useless instrument is
well on its way to becoming a valuable addition to
one _of Pittstield’s parks, enabling people who, till
now, could only dream about the stars, to watch
the inter—stellar spaces to their pleasure and profit.

A Modern Fairy
Tale

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY 545

The engineer at General Electric presented the
telescope to the Recreation Commission. Under
his supervision high school students made replace-
ments for missing parts in their school shops. The
Park Department built a house for the ’scope at
Riverside. The high school students made electric
controls with which the ’scope would be mounted.
The job will soon be done—a Stellar telescope
second to few in the state where there used to be

only “junk.”

Winter Wonderland—The Park Commission
of Union County, New Jersey, is ready for the
beginning of a gay and active winter. Throughout
the various parks in the county, skating spots,
toboggan slides, skiing and coasting areas, ice
hockey rinks, ski trails, snowshoeing areas, horse-
‘ drawn sleighs await the moment when “the North
wind doth blow and we shall have snow.” There
should be no weeping and wailing and gnashing of
teeth among winter sports fans in Union County
this year. The only thing that can foil their
pleasure now is a mild winter.

National Public Health Nursing Day—The
National Organization for Public Health Nursing,
1790 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y., announces
the first National Public Health Nursing Day to
be held January 26, 1945. The theme will be
“Know Your Public Health Nurse—VVho She Is,
What She Does.”

The purpose of setting aside a special day is to
focus attention upon public health nursing as a
service for everyone and to increase public under-
standing of the part played by the public health
nurse in helping to build better health for family,
community, and nation. The Organization has
issued material suggesting how the day may be
celebrated. A number of publicity aids are avail-
able free.

The Official Sports Guides—A. S. Barnes and
Company, 67 West 44th Street, New York '18,
N. Y., announces the publication of the following
Sports Guides ust off the press, Basketball, Swim-
ming, Boxing, Wrestling, Ice Hockey and Volley
Ball, and the Recreational Games and S ports Gnide
containing activities for girls and women. The
ABC Bowling Guide was issued last October. All
these guides containing official rules, articles, and
records are available at 50 cents each with the ex-
ception of the Recreational Games and Sports
Guide, the price of which is 35 cents.

JANUARY 1945

  
   
    
 
   
    
      
     
     
     
     
 

 
  

With the

ARMY

N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS .

on tanks and in airplanes

  

  

Diamond Products are on every fighting
front; in every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion.

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46|0 Grand Ave" Duluth, Minn.
I

National Thrift Week 1945—“Hold Your
Gains in Thrift” will be the theme of National
Thrift Week 1945 (January I 7 to 23). The Na-
tional Thrift Committee recommends an annual
check-up of budgets on an A-B-C basis—“A,” all
necessary living expenses; “B,” basic savings for
net gain, including War Bonds, savings accounts,
and other investments; “C,” cash for the things
which add color and zest to life, such' as books,
amusements, and hobbies of all kinds.

Further information may be secured from the
National Thrift Committee, 441 Lexington Ave—

nue, New York 17, N. Y.

A Quarter of a Century—Twenty-eight years
ago a woman with rare vision and a desire to serve
her fellow men saw at La Jolla, California, a dream
come alive. She was Ellen B. Scripps, for fifteen
years a member of the Board of Directors of the q
National Recreation Association. Through her
generosity a community center “to be used forever
by the public” was presented to the city. I

Three years after the building had been com-
pleted a man and woman came to serve" the center
as supervisors. Twenty years later they were still

x

S46 AT FLORIDA’S WAR RECREATION CONFERENCE

at work, and La Jolla was a finer place because of
them. In recognition of these years of service the
entire community set aside a time to honor Mr.
and Mrs. Archie Talboy with their outspoken ap-
preciation and with such outward and visible signs
of their devotion as a scrapbook of I 50 letters
from patrons and friends of'the center and of the

Talboys.

Price Correction—In the October 1944 issue
of RECREATION we quoted a price of six cents on
the booklet, Tricks You Can Do Without Practice
and other booklets in the series published by the
Hart Publishing Company, 43 West 57th Street,
New York 19, N. Y. Word has been received from
the company that this price, which had been given
us, referred to the price in quantities of I 50 copies
or more. Obtain single prices from the company.

When .Fun's a Family Affair at School!

(Continued from page 508)

do the rest. Charley Zoller, of the Dads’ Orches-
tra, states that family nights have gotten him ac-
quainted with a grand new set of unusually inter-
esting friends. He knows plenty of other people
who say the same thing. He says that the men in
the orchestra were always musical enough so that
they have missed it in their life of purely business.
The family night orchestra is giving them the fun
they enjoy most.

Outstanding development of Davenport’s com-
munity recreation evenings, is the talent for lead-
ership and ingenious ideas originated from parents
and children. “Even people you wouldn’t expect
to contribute a great deal have shown wonderful
enthusiasm and initiative.”

Although not very many cities in the country
can equal Davenport’s specially-designed commu-
nity school buildings, the public use of schools
after hours is becoming more and more common.
Other Iowa cities which open schools to the com—
munity include Sioux City, Mason City, and Du-
buque. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, now known as “the
city of lighted school houses,” opened its buildings
to informal education and recreation as early as
1912. Richmond, Virginia, has done so for twenty
years— so successfully that the Board of Educa-
tion appropriated a fund that pays for light, heat,
Janitor.

If your city has new schools on its postwar

plan, schools like Davenport’s are something to
remember.

At Florida's War Recreation
Conference

(Continued from page 528)

interested in recreation. By bringing together the
leaders in these groups, problems of leadership,
facilities, and program planning can be worked out.
An effective plan of organization involves a steer-
ing committee which sets up programs to be sup—
ported by all of the organizations represented in
the committee. All existing facilities should be
used before new ones are set up, and the import-
ance of stressing programs rather than facilities
should be kept in mind.

Recreation in Migratory Camps. Wartime ef-
forts which are being made to introduce recrea-
tion into the camps for migratory workers must '
not be lost in the postwar period.

A Challenge to the Future. Mark McCloskey,

speaking at the banquet which brought the Con-
ference to a close, gave a salute to Florida com-
munities for their three years of service to the
armed forces and urged them to give the same
devotion to the transition period into peacetime
with continuing services to the community and its
recreational needs. War has released the power of
America in production and manpower. Recreation
has released great forces for civic betterment and
new sources of individual and national strength.
For the great productive period ahead there must
be recreation to provide release for the stress and
strain of a high tension life. With a shorter work-
ing day and increased free time, opportunity for
leisure will be as important as opportunity for
work.

The test of a nation’s civilization is not in its
hours of work but in the wise use of its free time.
This freedom will be a national asset or liability.
Human conservation through recreation is a neces-
sity for wise planning now.

In Conclusion

We have seen recreation go to war. We have
witnessed the recognition of recreation by the
American government as a priority for prepared-
ness and as an essential in the winning of the war.
The story of achievement by the nation, the state
of Florida, the local communities, defense coun-
cils, citizens’ committees, private agencies, and
municipal recreation departments is an epic in our
national history. Camp and community have been
vital partners in the maintenance of morale through

RECREATION

Voit Synthetic-Rubber-Covered
Athletic'Equipment can “take it!“ The

tough rubber cover of Voit Basketballs,

Footballs, Soccer Balls, Volley Balls,
Soft Balls, Water Polo Balls, and Home
Plates resists the ravages of high hu-

    

BUY WAR BONDS
REGULARLY

©0 v svuruznc-nusssn-covsnen
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

miclity, moisture, and mildew—stands
up under rugged play on sharp abra-
sive surfaces. That’s the reason why the
Volt Synthetic Rubber Cover is known
as the sew—ice surface . . . first choice on

the home-front, too!

HANG ON TO
THOSE YOU HAVE

Mfgcl. by W. J. Volt Rubber Corp"

1600 E. 25th 5h. to: Angela: ‘Il, Calif.
Chicago Ironchw‘lso No. Wacker DrivonZono 6

lANUARY 1945

 

 

547

548 JOHN H. GOSS

recreation. In the transition period let us re-
member:

We must have no let-up in our all-out war effort.
We must fight the war to the finish.

Our work has never been more vital than it will be
during this dangerous period of overconfidence.
There must be no relaxation. We must not think of the
need for youth recreation and centers in terms of
the duration of the war and of delinquency. Youth
is always with us. Recreation for youth is a per-
manent problem facing every community in peace
as well as in war. The justification for youth rec-
reation is not that it is a preventive for delinquency

but that it is a basic need for normal youth.

We must somehow carry over into civic services and
peacetime recreation services an army of volunteers
who have perhaps been the greatest asset from the
war the home front has garnered. During the
transition period this great potential force for civic

good must be transformed into peacetime services
in recreation.

We must prepare our municipalities to enlarge their
recreation programs—to provide adequate budgets—
to employ trained, qualified leaders.

We must educate the public as to peacetime needs for
recreation. If recreation is good in wartime. it is
equally good for peacetime. If it is good for the
tourists, it is good for the home folks who live here
and pay taxes. 4"

During the transition period we will do everything to
raise the standards of our profession, for recreation
is a profession—a worthy career that demands
character, education, training, and experience, and
deserves recognition and adequate compensation. To-
gether all of us, public and private agencies, paid
leaders and volunteers, do here dedicate ourselves
to the civic task of making communities through
improved community recreation better places in
which to live and work.

A Preview of Pleasure
(Continued from page 519)

around the Zoo with “Uncle Leo,”. Zoo master, are
a few of the events.

The members of, the Oklahoma Bait and Fly
Casting Club sponsor a demonstration of fly cast-
ing. “Bring your rod and join the fun” is the pro-
gram note on this one. (The club members brought

along extra rods for servicemen from Will Rogers
Airfield, Tinkerlield, and the Naval Bases who
might want to try their luck.)

Would you like to take a peek at Jupiter—*the
planet, Jupiter? You can. In fact you can take a
“personally conducted tour” of the heavens via
telescope. Professors from Oklahoma City Uni-
versity will be your “guides.” Or would you pre-
fer a set of square dances or a sail or an hour in
the art center, or checkers or marbles or skating?

John H. 6055

 

ON THE MORNING of October 16, 1944, the na-
tional recreation movement suffered a severe
loss in the death of John H. Goss of Waterbury,
Connecticut, age seventy-two, retired president of
the Scovill Manufacturing Company. Mr. Goss
had been the sponsor of the Association in VVater-
bury and the surrounding area for sixteen years
and had been an honorary member of the Asso—
ciation. His belief in the national movement and
his readiness to give leadership to it had helped
greatly for many years. Mr. Goss himself in his
college days had been a varsity baseball pitcher, a
quarter—miler on the track team, and he knew from
personal experience the value of recreation.

It’s all there. All you’ve got to do is step up and
start participating.

Needless to say all this wealth of recreational
opportunity didn’t, like Topsy, “just grow.” Spon-
soring organization is the Chamber of Commerce,
Sports and Recreation Committee. The Recreation
Department is workshop and clearing house. The
matter of organization, administration, and opera-
tion is much simpler than one would think. The
Sports and Recreation Committee, of which the
director of recreation is a member, meets each year
during the month of March or April for the pur—

RECREATION

A PREVIEW 0F PLEASURE 549

pose of appointing a general chairman of the Play-
ground Recreation Festival. The festival chair-
man then calls a meeting of representatives from
every type of recreational activity, commercial and
otherwise, in the city. The dates for the festival
are set by the over-all group.

Each event is assigned to an enthusiastic leader
who has selected that activity for his hobby. It is
his job to organize and carry through his part of
the program. Each such leader assists in deter-
mining the day, hour, and place for his exhibition
or demonstration and sends to the director of rec-
reation, who acts as secretary of the over-all com-
mittee, copy on what should be included in the
bulletin concerning his events.

These bulletins, provided by the Sports and Rec-
reation Committee of the Chamber of Commerce,
outline all the activities. They are distributed to
‘the school children in the last week of school.
During the war period, bulletins have been sent to
Army and Navy bases in the city and community
and t0 the defense plants.

Sixteen school playgrounds and pools and sev—
enteen parks and recreation centers offer a fine
program of special events Qduring the three days
of the festival. Three Negro school playgrounds
and three parks carry out an interesting activity F I G  N G  R D S
program in addition to the other special events
held in the Negro community. Local newspapers
are generous in their allocation of space for pub-
licizing the festival events.

3 It is a happy three-day period, this festival time.
Thousands of c1tizens may spend their leisure time the democratic way of life taught so effectively as on
I

either participating in or watching that recrea- the playgelds of America__where our youth grow up
tion activity in which he is most interested. He in true democracy.

has a good time and he usually comes back or ..
d h. 11.1 d b k f d d In these rugged competltive sports our future leaders,
Sen 5 15 C 1 ren ac or a more eXten e in industry, science, agriculture, government, develop

though less intensive program over the summer. not only their physical powers but a love of freedom

that will never be undermined from within or without,
if they can help it.

 

0 Free speech! Free enterprise! The democratic way!
These are fighting words. Why? Because they picture
prizes of freedom worth fighting for—worth life itself.

Nowhere is the spirit of initiative, free enterprise, and

Recreation and Morale

“ As they fight for a crucial victory on the gridiron—-
The. advent 0f war SUddenly threw upon the they will fight any attempt by anyone to restrict the

people of the United States a responsibility for rights and freedoms their forefathers gave their lives to
greatly increased work. Leisure time, some of it Create and Perpetuate-

the enforced leisure of unemployment, greatly

diminished. The planning of appropriate and sat'-‘ W'LSON SPORTING GOODS CO-

. I h. I N C o a
isfactory recreatlon seems all the more necessary C 'cago ew York and 0”!“ leadmg “he:

at this moment. If we must have play to com-

plete our lives, and if the time in which we may  
play is reduced, it is obvious that we must learn

and plan to play better while we are playing.”—-   camshigitiiii'iiac.
Karl and Jeannette M enninger in Bulletin of the momma“
Menninger Clinic. - IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

lANUARY 1945

550 HELEN OSBORNE STORROW

in all parts of the coun—
try for qualified profes—

JOB OPPORTUNITIES

sional workers, both experienced and inexperienced, at
salaries from $1,800 to $3,000.

PERSONNEL DIVISION

6 I R L S C O U T S
l55 East 44th Street New York I7. N. Y.

 

The Ideal Winter Sport for Everyone!

(Continued from page 522)

ers a splendid opportunity to meet each other
outside of the classroom. In the spring and sum—
mer, when the municipal rink is closed, the group
turns to roller skating, hiking, and bicycling.

Where Skate? 1

Any small community with a few tennis courts
may Hood them and charge a small fee, from 10 to
25 cents, for ice skating. It may even stage an
amateur ice show with everyone in town helping
the project. Both youngsters and grownupS'en joy
preparing for the event, dressing up, and compet—
ing with each other. We have Muni Bike and
Hike Clubs in Milwaukee; why not a Muni Skate
Club in every community with suitable tempera—
tures?

Colleges such as Dartmouth, Skidmore, and
Vassar have skating clubs and hold winter sports
carnivals which are the big events of the winter
season. In New York City the College Skating
Club, composed for the most part of Columbia
University graduates, holds weekly skating ses-
sions and an annual ice carnival each January on
one of the public lakes in Interstate Palisades Park.
The program for the 1944 carnival follows:

Carnival Program

Grand march of all skaters in costumes for colored
camera

Races for men at two miles around markers

School figure contests for all figure skaters

Races for boys at one-half mile, handicapped so all
ages will have a chance to win

Waltz exhibition by the Tirati Six to “Blue Danube”

Slow race, going forward, last skater is the winner

Girls’ race at one-quarter mile, handicapped to insure
fairness

Fox trot exhibition by the Tirati Six to “Tea for Two”

Backward race for all—one-quarter mile in length

Ten step exhibition by the Tirati Six (“Stars and
Stripes”)

Skate sailing races with masts and spars as approved
by the Skate Sailing Association of America

Free style exhibition by the Tirati Pair

Iceboat races at ten miles around red nuns

Helen Osborne Storrow

FRIENDS or RECREATION are saddened by the
news of the death of Helen Osborne Storrow
on November 10, 1944. She had been interested
in the national recreation movement since 1910.
She had a very active part in the Recreation Con—
gress held in Washington, D. C., in 1911. In a
single year she raised several thousand dollars
through her friends for the National Recreation
Association, and she herself contributed gener—
ously to its support through the years. Her gift
of one million dollars in 1929, in memory of her
husband, James J. Storrow, made possible the
Charles River Basin esplanade and playground.

Helen Osborne Storrow herself had been active
in the folk dance movement. She was a former
president of the International Girl Scouts.

Her husband during his lifetime had been active
in the recreation movement. As a member of the
Boston School Board be had supported the rec—
reation program and had, despite his heavy busi-
ness responsibilities, assisted by addressing meet-
ings in another city to help in getting a year-round
recreation program established.

The national recreation movement has been
fortunate in having the support of so many families
that for several generations have given of their
personal service and of their means to help make a
happier and more worthwhile world.

 

 

Tango exhibition Iby the Tirati Six to “Jealousy”
Potato races open to all

Exhibit by high school skating clubs of New York

Informal skating by trios, each made up of two men
and a girl

Comedy act take-off on Freddie Trenkler
Waltz 'by youngest and oldest skaters

Grand finale, with everyone skating for colored motion
picture camera

“Come one, come all,” reads the invitation. “No
special entry required; just come out and intro-
duce yourself.”

Give Them Something to Do

(Continued from page 526)

ball, basketball, indoor tennis, clay modeling, and
fingerprinting. A wagon repair service is particu-
larly valuable to newsboys. A program designed
especially for girl auxiliaries provides competent
instruction by social—minded volunteers in art-
crafts, knitting, and the care of children.

'

RECREATION

VERMONT “POINTS WITH PRIDE” 551

uVermont Points with Pride”

HE ANNUAL Governor’s Recreation Conference
Theld in Burlington November 15th, was at—
tended by over 200 Vermonters. The conference
was designed this year to give practical assistance
to the many communities which have initiated, or
are planning to develop recreation programs. A
feature of the conference was the workshop dem—
onstration conducted by Ruth Garber Ehlers of
the National Recreation Association. Of particu-
lar concern to Vermont recreation councils is the
problem of securing trained leaders, and training
volunteer leaders through leadership institutes.

The conference was keenly interested in the re-
port of Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director
of Recreation, reviewing the highlights of commu-
nity recreation development in the state during the
past year since the State Recreation Committee
provided the service of a specialist to assist the
towns in their recreation planning. During the
year many community recreation councils "have
been organized.

The resourcefulness of communities in making
the best use of existing facilities was paramount in
the report. The use of an old church, an unused
school building, a basement, a garage, or a house
which the town took for taxes, highlighted the
story.

Leadership was the crying need from many
communities; some full-time workers have been
recruited; volunteers have taken training." Nine
training institutes were held.

The special problems of rural recreation were
described. The community center in Morgan was
pointed out as a fine example of cooperative com-
munity action, where “working bees” accomplished
the conversion of an old house.

A variety of services and citizenship programs
for children were described: Rutland’s bicycle
patrol, Randolph’s anniversary party and father
and son baseball games, “(2th interesting programs
from other communities.

In addition to municipally sponsored winter
sports, the sponsorship of men’s and women’s
organizations has helped: White River Junction’s
skating rink built by the VVomen’s Club; W ood-
stock Rotary Club’s skating rink, and Burlington’s
four rinks on the parks.

Youth Centers have been operated in many com—
munities, sponsored by municipal recreation de-
partments, councils, Y.M.C.A.’s, churches, service

IANUARY 1945

.7 My,
'5

39‘9an talliputnr _ 

In every field of Sport in Profcss
donal. Semi-Projnd' Amateur, Base-
ball‘and Softball. ,in _Ul'ni_v§:rsitics.
Collegesland High Sebools, in Mu-
nicipal. and Industrial Recreation.
Goldsmith-Sport's Equipment is rec--
ognizcd as a Hallmarka quality'
and ‘unvagyihgfpcrformancc. 

. - ‘ “"47 4v "E ‘ rded,
MacGREGOR-GOLDSMITH Inc. \I _  QFB'j’ér tagopucréffm.
\_ -

mm B FINDCIV II". Blmlm'l'l ‘0. W10. ll...A.

 

clubs or fraternal organizations. In Bellows Falls,
for example, the Elks have opened a Youth Center.

Twenty-five towns have postwar plans for rec-
reation facilities, and nine towns report a pro—
posed expenditure totaling about $750,000. These.
plans include swimming pools, playgrounds, com-
munity buildings. VVoodstock’s long-range plan
was cited as a complete postwar program as were
Norwich’s development of swimming and play
areas through community cooperation, and St.
Johnsbury’s and Manchester’s pools and bath
houses.

“Living Memorials” in the form of recreation
facilities are the choice of many Vermont com-
munities. Among them are Bennington, North-
field, Rutland, Springfield, and Arlington. Brat~
tleboro’s “Living Memorial” Fund is already being

subscribed. Its goal—a bond for every Brattleboro
man and woman in service.

The desire of servicemen for a home town that's
“good to live in” was highlighted from the story
of a W’inooski soldier who sent home a contribu—
tion of $5 .00 to start a swimming pool fund.

Manufacturers. Cincinnati. 0.

552 A NATURE UNIVERSITY

A Nature University

(Continued from page 542)

project. This would take many years to develop
but need not be eXpensive if the tract were planted

with seedlings suitable to the area.

Demonstrations

A demonstration is one of the most effective
ways of teaching. Its lesson is easily learned and
very likely to be remembered. In a bulletin, Use-
fulness of Birds to the Farm, by the Department
of Agriculture, it is stated that by furnishing ap-
propriate nesting facilities and covering trees and
shrubs with food, it is possible to increase the num-
ber of birds per acre for the area from twenty to
forty times. If this is really possible, there should
be a small demonstration area near every village
and town so that the children might become
familiar with the common varieties. A small area
of this sort on every farm would be desirable. If
the sanctuary can develop such a tract for the
towns and farms to copy, it will be a real service.

There should be examples of feeding: tables of
various kinds to attract different varieties of birds.

The great hardship for most of our northern
birds and animals is the winter. One often won-
ders how the quail and pheasants can survive when
there is a foot of snow on the ground and the
thermometer is ranging around zero. The best
protection they can have is some sort of a dense

copice, such as a kettle hole, marsh thicket, or briar"

patch. These thickets with briar patches furnish
alike good nesting places and protection from
winter storms. If the kettle holes can be rein-
forced with a few evergreens around the edge, it

will help.

Nature Education

Such a sanctuary as has been described might
well become the center of the nature education of
a large area and be used constantly by all the
schools for observation and study. As most of the
schools of this area own their own busses, trans-
portation would present no great problem.

The casual visitor and the student do not mix
well. Nevertheless, a sanctuary must provide for
both. The general public is interested though it
may be only superficially. There are few forms of
recreation with greater drawing power than a
zoological garden, and parents will bring their
children a long way to see a sanctuary. There are
always tourists who are on their way somewhere,

who wish to stop off for an hour or two, and
young people on bicycles who come out mostly for
the trip. This popular section should contain the
zoo, the museum, the arboretum, a lecture hall,
and very likely a cafeteria and any large assembly
of wild fowl.

There should be simple dormitories or cottages
so that high school and college students taking
courses in nature could spend a week or more at a
time, as well as cottages for research men and the
regular faculty of the sanctuary which would in—
clude the nature guides, naturalists, and those
engaged in special studies. I vision some such
a group on a smaller scale as the astronomers on
the top of Mt. Wilson in California, or the natural—
ists on Baro, Colorado, in Gatun Lake, Panama.
There should be the finest nature library that can

be afforded.

Somewhere in the central part of the area and
shut off from casual visitors there should be a
camp for nature students. In the summer there
should be a conference for the nature teachers of

the area.

A nature university of the kind described would
be expensive to maintain, and it should have an
endowment of four or five million dollars. The
Kellogg and the Jack Miner Sanctuary each has its
own foundation. It might be staffed, as the Kellogg
Sanctuary is, by some university, or it might have
its own faculty. It might be maintained by a pri-
vate foundation, by a metropolitan school district,
by a métrOpolitan park board, or by two or three
of them acting together.

Brunswick on the Warpath
( C ont-iuued from page 511)

The sponsorship of the program was assumed by
the Federal Security Agency and the USO. A
director and an assistant director came to help
with the work. This made it possible to expand
the program in all kinds of ways if we could find
adequate space. Once more we tapped the commu—
nity resources for facilities. The parish house we
had moved into temporarily was annexed for
special events. At one time or another we have
used the swimming pool, gym, athletic field, and
streets of Bowdoin College for our special events.
We started out in the streets with novelty
dances such as a barn dance, a circus dance, Gay
Nineties dance, and a calendar dance. These seemed
to set the keynote of the spirit of the whole pro-

RECREATION

BRUNSWICK ON THE WARPATH 553

gram. They were strictly the let-the-hair-down
type of informality that breeds good, clean fun.
Then we began to include such things as roller
skating, splash parties, buffet suppers, dancing, and
craft classes.

The program is adaptable; we take all sugges-
tions. All of these activities have not been dreamed
up and put into Operation by two paid workers alone.
Two people couldn’t possibly do it without the
help, the cooperation, the hard work of many vol-
unteers. If there is anyone in the town who hasn’t
contributed in some way toward the success of the
program, he must be hiding! In has taken all com—
munity resources plus the willingness to work and
cooperate to put the program over. What started
out to be a clubroom for servicemen has gradually
developed into a community recreation program.

One part of the summer outdoor schedule was
a line example of what can be done through co-
operation. A swimming and picnic area for the
residents of Brunswick and the servicemen was
financed by the USO and the Brunswick Recrea-
tion Committee. The Navy assisted in making
plans for it. During the day the townspeople pre—
dominated in using it, and in the evening, after
duty, the Navy took over. Really there was plenty
of room for both. Large outings were sponsored
by industrial groups, civic and church organiza-
tions, the Naval Air Station. In eight weeks ap-
proximately 20,000 people used the area. Plans
are already under way for a winter sports area that
will provide for skiing, tobogganing, and skating
within a short distance of the town. This area will
be on property owned by the water district of the
community. The USO is sponsoring the project
and it is backed by the Recreation Committee, the
Navy, and the town’s business men.

During the past summeri'iuwe had a number of
street dances for the military personnel. Bowdoin
College furnished the location, properties, work-
men; the Navy provided the music; the USO
planned the program; everyone shared in the fun.

In July 1944, the Brunswick USO program was
expanded to take in both military and community
recreation, and under this new plan the teen-age
group was the first to attract attention. We called
a meeting of a small group of this age and asked
them what they would like. Then we sent out cards
of invitation to the boys and girls in high school,
and called a mass meeting at which a council was
elected. In less than three months the Teen-Age

IANUARY 1945

 TOYM MATS-PADS

   

BOXING RINGS

' IRAINING BAGS, no covens, use BALI.

i uses mo KINDRED EQUIPMENT...

designed by “pom, made by upoer workmen full
«polity materials and sold dine! to schools, maps. on.
Independent. mly wholesale.

‘ l ‘5 1‘. in“? NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT COMPANY
‘_ V r us unnouuu - rouo ou LAc.wu.

   
 
 
 
    

Senai for New [dialog

Canteen had 250 members. They have their own
committees, make their own rules, and run their
own program under the advisory council of the
USO. They have two sessions a week, a game
night, and a dance night. At each session four of
the parents act as hosts and hostesses. Only
limited facilities keep the program from expanding.

A new recreation building for the town of
Brunswick is being built by the Federal Works
Agency, and the town is on the edge of its collec-
tive seat waiting for it to be opened. In the course
of the deve10pment of these various programs
Brunswick has become recreation-conscious. The
USO program is a wartime program, but when
the war is over we hope nBrunswick will be able
to carry it on. The spirit is willing. The flesh is
strong. People who have never before done any
kind of work of this sort have proven to them-
selves that they can do it, and what’s more, like

"doing it. It has deve10ped leadership and character

in many of the volunteers so that they have a new
confidence in themselves. They have no butter-
flies in their stomachs when they tackle a project.
They know they do not stand alone, everyone is
willing to help. “Teamwork” may be a prosaic

expression, but it is descriptive. It’s what we have.
We like it!

Attention!
RECREATION DEPARTMENTS

COMMUNITY and CIVIC CENTERS

We supply Costumes on rental basis for

VICTORY and PEACE PAGEANTS
PERIOD PLAYS, OPERAS, and CARNIVALS

FOLK FESTIVALS, and DANCES

Accurate Period Costumes for Jr. and Sr. Hi. Schools

Wigs, Make‘UP Masks, Heads, Accessories
VAN HORN & SON rm CHESTNUT ST.

Established 1352 PHILA- 7. PA.
Theatrical Costumers

 

— -.——.-—.

554 A LETTER FROM ENGLAND

 

 

you Gem Use

THE JOURNAL 0! HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
IZOI Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

 

 

A Letter from England

(Continued from page 520)
the younger generation well and truly set a prob-

lem for our local governments if not all over Great
Britain. So, some one put up the idea of Youth
Centres, places where youth could meet boys and
girls, to indulge in something in which they both
were interested, table tennis, darts, draughts,
dancing, debating, any mortal thing so long as they
were interested and above all be kept off the street
corners and away from the “churchgoer’s” bogey,
the Public House. .

This idea rapidly caught on all over the country
and especially well here in my own town with a
population of roughly 70,000 inhabitants. As time
went on nearly every big school in Swindon was
opened up as a Youth Centre for young people
under eighteen years of age which became more
and more interested. But still the over-eighteens
must be catered for, so, in 1943 Swindon had the
first Workers Recreational Centre set up, an old
building reconditioned with every thought toward
the over-eighteens possible.

We have only one centre of this nature, so again
the Ministry of Labour tried, only three weeks
ago, and the result was a Swindon Welcome Club
to be set up. Our Town Council, the town’s gov-
erning body, elected a panel of twelve of its mem-
bers to prepare and organize this new enterprise
where troops Allied, and coloured boys and girls
alike could all mix together as one big happy
family, doing things that interest them most (ex-
cept the young girls’ dream, necking) and it is
proved most useful.

I am the individual who was responsible for the

formation of the House Committee now in power.
Our aim is something different every night and up I
until now we are doing 0. K. I am on the House
Committee and naturally interested and keen on
anything of this nature and I would be glad if I
could get your views on your Youth Centres and
the way in which they were first started and how
they are being run.

' Please don’t think that I am a sourfaced “guy,”
against beer drinking or any form of a good time
because I’m not. Far from it. I’m only young once
and boy, oh boy, I try and make the very best of
life even though we have a war on, on our door-
step sometimes! So, cheerio for now, good luck
to you, your youth centres, and its organizers, and
of course have a very happy Christmas and may
you “toast” to a victorious and prosperous New
Year for the Allied Nations. '

By the way, I do not wear a monocle or speak
with an Oxford accent, but with a Westaof Eng-
land “twang” typical of this my country speech of
Wiltshire.

Best of luck and best wishes.

(Mr.) RAY BENNETT

Tuesday, 14th Nov., 1944.

Detroit Plans for the. Future

(Continued from page 513)
edied by the construction of eight outdoor pools at

a total cost of $2,720,000. Plans are ready for the
construction of reinforced concrete pools, complete
with locker rooms, showers, purifiers, and similar
facilities. Sites have already been selected to place
these pools in congested areas to give the residents
of those neighborhoods the outdoor recreation and
health-giving exercise which they will provide.

At the present time the only municipal outdoor
bathing available is at the Belle Isle Bathing Beach
where capacity was taxed long before Detroit’s
population reached its present figure, and at the
Rouge Park Pools at the extreme western end of
the city where an almost continuous line of bathers
waits for lockers during the warm weather!

Other Projects

Street Tree Planting. In addition to the construc-
tion of buildings and acquisition of new land for
parks and playgrounds, an expenditure of $2,055,625
is planned for a program of street tree planting
and rehabilitation of parkways.

Roads and Bridges. The sum of $2,311,000 has
been set aside for the building of roads and bridges
in the public parks.

RECREATION

A NEW PLA YFIELD FOR LAS VEGAS, NEVADA 555

TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS "IN ACTION " IN THE SPACIOUS GAME ROOM OF THE
N. C. C. S.-USO CLUB LOCATED IN JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

This unique, PORTABLE Two—Way Bowling Alley (requiring NO INSTAL—
LATION COST!) is proving to be one of the leading game—units, now
included in RECREATION PROGRAMS all over the country. Because of
its E—Z set-up features. solid construction and convenient size, the
alley is perfectly adapted for immediate use as well as for postwar

building plans.

We urge you to send for complete information and descriptive
literature including many. many letters praising the good, clean com—
petitive fun and relaxation derived from Two-Way Bowling. .

the coupon today! No obligation.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828

0 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

A New Plaiifield for
Las Vegas, Nevada

LANS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT of a large and

beautiful playfield are under consideration in
Las Vegas, Nevada. One of the most important
features of the proposed plan is a swimming pool
measuring 160 by 60 feet. The plan calls for shal-
low water at both ends, leading to a deep section
in the center where diving boards of regulation
type would be erected. Adjacent to the pool would
be dressing rooms for men and women designed
to conform with the modified Spanish type of
architecture accepted as most suitable for this area.
A sanded beach area would be provided near the

pool.

IANUARY 1945

. . Mail

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..

Address ............................................................ ..
City ...................................... .. State ............... ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

 

 

Included in the plan is a tot lot for preschool
children with a wading pool and sand pits. Adja-
cent would be a pergola to provide for the com-
fort of mothers whose children are playing in the
area. "Similar tot lots are" planned for smaller
areas throughout the town. In the playground
area of the park would be athletic equipment for
older children and slides, swings, rings, and bars
for smaller children. There would be a play area
and outdoor theater for arts, crafts, nature study,
and musical productions. Team games and sports
such as football, baseball, and softball would be
played in a large Open meadow.

Development of the park area as outlined is

dependent upon Federal aid, according to city
officials.

556 A KEY APIECE

   
 

A Key Apiece
(Continued from page 509)

a large part of its membership, but the men are not
forgotten. Friday night is theirs to work in what
craft they wish, jewelry or leather or wood or
metals, under the direction of two leaders who are
at their service.

There is a small monthly membership fee. The
charter members form the governing board. The
list of activities is already long. Here are a few

examples :
Silver jewelry Water color sketching
Handbags Stencilling—on linen or
Book marks paper
Weaving Needlework
Lamp shades Individualized note
Rag dolls papers
Baking Photograph tinting
Dress fitting Party planning

The members are planning a cook book of Web:-
ster Groves’ cherished recipes. Each woman who
comes to the Studio is urged to bring in tried and

simple recipes “for the book.” “Bring a recipe,

take one with you,” is their motto.

With the Community Studio, Webster Groves
has added another link to the chain of evidence
being forged to prove their contention that “We
Need Each Other.” Members of the community
and members of the Studio are equally happy over
the project and, to inject a mundane but gratify-
ing note, the Studio is paying its way!

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MUNICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the administration aspeCts of

their department and its correlation with Other departments of city government. Special emphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; Operation of play-
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and
reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each

lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfaCtory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently erte, "Trnt/ofnlly I cannot remember any
ejjort on my part which be: paid off in dividend: J'O qnz’clzly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
l3l3 East 60th Street. Chicago 37. Illinois

  

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

The Chicago Recreation Conference

(Continued from page 529)
Dr. Harry A. Overstreet spoke at the luncheon

on the subject: “Recreation: New Obligations——
New Approaches.” In developing his theme Dr.
Overstreet said: “Play is no trifling afterthought
in a democracy. It is one of the basic freedoms
because it is itself both the expression and the

. strengthener of freedom. It is a primary concern,

for the kind of recreation people make for them-
selves determines the kind of people they become
and the kind of society they build.”

After the luncheon meeting the group broke up I
into fourteen meetings for discussion of problems
of recreation in relation to the community: Child
care; the problems of demobilizetl servicemen; the
teen-ager; racial tensions; music; a “full-time
basis” for the school building; Showmanship in
promoting the recreation program; the mainte—
nance of the OCD’s brain child—the block plan;
governmental planning in postwar recreation pro—
grams were among the questions considered in
these meetings. In the concluding general session
from 7:00 to 9:00 P. M. Dr. Howard McClusky
talked about youth and community recreation.

Just to prove that recreation workers can prac-
tice what they preach, both plenary sessions in-
dulged in a period of community singing, and there
was an old-fashioned Hoe-Down scheduled to fol-
low the discussion groups.

RECREATION

RECREATION—GLAMOURIZED ! 557

Edward L. Burchard

DWARD L. BURCHARD, former executive secre-
E tary of the Chicago Recreation Commission,
died November 29th at Freeport, Illinois, at the
' age of seventy-seven. He had been deeply inter-
ested in the cOmmunity center movement, associate
editor of the Community Center Magazine, and
had been active in the Chicago Civic Club. His
line spirit had endeared him to many active in
recreation throughout the entire country.

 

 

Recreation—Glamourized!
p (C antinncd from page 531 )

may take the form, for_instance, of a holiday cele~
bration with costumes, decorations, prizes, social
games, and folk dances. Atmosphere is of the
‘essence. Not only is it created by decorations, but
the tone is definitely set by hostesses who give
charm, grace, poise to the total program. In the

background is the guiding hand of the professional '

recreation worker, whose force is continually felt,
but whose presence is not obvious.

The features of the educational and recreational
program of the center are combined with the
charms of the commercialized club. Admission is
by membership. The program is managed by com-
mittees, which are composed of both adults and
young members. It belongs, and is of itself, a
youth program; for youth, by youth, with the
guidance and inspiration of adults.

The canteen has been conducted successfully
at Juvenile House since lastUune. It was the
joint project of two entirely different organiza:
tions, the American Women’s Volunteer Services
and a community center. The organizations pooled
their resources. The AWVS made possible addi-
tional professional staff and contributed the ser#
vices of fifteen or sixteen young women who acted
as hostesses each evening. There are four profes-
sional staff members including two social recrea—

‘ tion workers, a case worker, and an educator.

i The partnership went beyond this pooling of

' resources. Each step of the way was planned by
joint committees from Juvenile House and the
AVVVS, and by a canteen committee of young

: people. This made it a three-way job. Each or-
ganization retained its own identity, yet by com-
bining their strengths they were able to create a

challenging program. The canteen came to com-
bine all the features essential to a successful can-
rteen program.

.IANUARY 1945

Postwar Planning

HE LONDON COUNTY COUNCIL plan for that
city for the postwar period calls for a large
increase in public open Spaces. For the first time a
park and recreation system is planned with a
standard of four acres of open spaces per thousand
people for the peOple within the city, and three
additional acres per thousand outside the city but
in the adjoining region. E
A wide green belt will be provided, which will ‘
serve as a ring of recreation parks around the city.
The desire is to hold the city within bounds. The
British believe that cities ought not to spill over
into the adjoining territory; that there must be
city control of boundaries just as there is flood
control.

It is believed that a large number of the British
soldiers returning will not want to sit in the
bleachers, but will demand opportunity to partici—
pate in sports.

Operating Artificial Skating Rinks

(Continued from page 517)
necessary for skating in the evening and for Hood—

ing during the night time. An attendant is on
duty during the period the rink is Open for skating.
Music is furnished at all three rinks through the
use of a public address system with automatic
record changers. The music was installed for the
purpose of encouraging figure skating. The as-
tonishing result, however, is that insistent demands
to play the music are received from practically
everyone using the rinks, even from children in
the early teens. We have also found that music
aids to a considerable extent in maintaining disci—
pline. People unconsciously skate to the music;

During the summer the canteen was held in an
outdoor playground at the center, lighted and
equipped especially for this purpose. It attracted
four hundred young people for live evenings each
week, and it is now being continued indoors as 5
fall and winter program. For the winter a discus-
sion group has been added to the agenda. Tea
around a samovar provides atmosphere for the
talk. Special entertainment programs featuring
music, dramatics, and similar activities are being
planned by the committee.

The canteen is gaining weekly in scope and in

glamour, educationally and recreationally. Each
day adds another cubit to its stature.

558

 

 

GREATER
UNDERSTANDING

AMONG peoples everywhere is the goal of

all who are interested in a better world.
Two potent aids to promote such understand-
ing are

OUER GOOD NEIGHBORS

(Revised Edition)

and
OUR UNITED STATES

These two books in the hands of teachers,
recreation leaders, young people’s groups will
do much toward making the peoples of Latin
America real and toward showing that, in
spite of a diversity of cultures, the people of
the United States are on their way to amicable
living with one another and with peoples of

other Americas.

OUR GOOD NEIGHBORS contains reference data,

maps, projects, and crafts on Canada, Mexico,
Central American republics, and South Ameri-
can republics.

OUR UNITED STATES contains maps, reference

data, projects, crafts, and illustrations on
Alaska, the District of Columbia, and eleven
of the States of the Union.

Both for only SLOO postpaid
60¢ each postpaid

(Payment must accompany all orders)

_ —. — — PLEASE USE THIS COUPON — — — — 

The Jones Publishing Co.
Dept. R /

46l6/N. Clark St.. Chicago 40. III.

E] Please send me both Our Good Neighbors and
Our United States. I enclose $1.00.

[:1 Please send me ............................................................ ..

(one book only)
I enclose 60¢.

Name .................................................................................. ..

Address .............................................................................. ..

City ...................................... .. Zone ...... ..State .................. ..

ON THE EDGE OF THE STRAND

On the Edge of the Strand

(Continued from page 540)

Since recreation is the art of entertaining our-
selves, justification of music’s rightful place as a
recreational medium is to be found in the oppor-
tunities that are afforded for active participation in
musical activities that give pleasure to the par-
ticipants.

Expanding the opportunities for musical par-
ticipation should begin in the schools, with school
music organizations functioning actively in com—
munity life, and educators giving freely of their
time to create and encourage alumni groups and
music organizations in clubs, churches, and com—
munity centers, so that the benefits of graduates’

musical training may be carried over into adult life. .

Instead of regarding certain types of music as
good or bad, more attention should be paid to
music’s functional aspect—what is does for people.
Intelligent planning and c00peration are needed to
bring into full play music’s power to enrich life, to
help break down racial and class distinctions, to
promote fellowship and understanding, and to
achieve unity and harmony in community relations.

Community singing can and should be made an
integral part of all public gatherings. Professional
leadership or direction is not necessary, but “song
starters” are needed and should be trained in
schools and in Scout and other youth programs
outside the schools.

Continued expansion of the facilities already
afforded in the city’s parks for free public concerts
and community music participation projects should
be encouraged and carried out.

The Army regards music as essential in the rec-
reation of enlisted men and has provided instru—
ments, self-instruction manuals, song books, and
opportunities for soldiers to amuse themselves
through music in their free time. Millions-of ser-
vicemen will continue to seek fun and entertain-
ment through participation in musical activities
after they are demobilized. To afford opportunities
for such activity is an obligation of the community.

Music in industry, both during work and leisure
time, makes better and happier workers, for it
rounds out their personalities, furthers a Spirit of
friendliness and fellowship, and helps to relieve
fatigue. Well-trained, full-time directors are needed
to bring music’s maximum benefits to the workers
in the city’s factories, and much missionary work

can yet be done to sell plant managers on the value
of industrial music programs.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Arts and Our Town

Compiled by Virginia Lee Comer. Association of_ Junior
Leagues of America, Inc. The Waldorf Astoria, New
York 22. $.50.

COUNCILS OF SOCIAL AGENCIES and Community Chests

l
l
l
l

\

have everywhere brought before the peOple the health
and welfare needs of their communities and the resources
available for meeting these needs. No such service has
been rendered in the cultural field. The Association of
Junior Leagues of America, believing that a knowledge of
cultural resources would be valuable to agencies and in-
dividuals alike, has prepared a plan for the survey Of such
resources in any community. Arts and Om’ Town, with
its careful and detailed study plans and directions for
making a survey, merits the thoughtful consideration Of
leaders in all phases Of community develOpment.

The Singing Caller

Collected and Arranged by Ann Hastings Chase. The
Association Press, New York. $1.50.

NOT so VERY LONG AGO square dancing was-——-to most
peOple—a “quaint” diversion, reminder of a by-gone
day. In those not-so-distant times men who knew the calls
were few and “fur” between. “The old callers and fiddlers
kept their craft secret if they could, and only initiated a
few apprentices into their ways of dance and music.”
Perhaps,‘for that reason there were few people prepared
to meet the increasing demand for square dancing. The
art of the “singing caller” especially was “COIISplCUOUS
by its absence.”

The Singing Caller, therefore, wiK,surely prove a boon
to square dance enthusiasts. Here are fifteen dances;
popular with our pioneering ancestors, becoming more
and more popular in this modern, war-harassed world.

Ann Hastings Chase has arranged the dances for a maxi- '

mum of usefulness. A prefatory note on each dance is
followed first Iby the piano score for the music of the

dance. The calls and the dance steps are arranged in ,

chart form with the proper section of the accompaniment
indicated for each call. Introductory sections on the
“wheres” and the “hows” of square dancing preface the
descriptive section Of the book. “Stick” figure illustra-
tions add their humorous charm to the whole. Here, in-
deed, is a valuable source book for groups who are plan-
ning to give the square dance “a whir” or who are,
through experience, already aware Of its joys.

The Postwar World and You

By Frances P. Arnold, Helen Gibson Hogue, Margaret
B. Ferreira, Beatrice Elizabeth Allen. Girls’ Friendly
Society, 386 Fourth Avenue, New York 16. $.25.

THE AUTHORS of this booklet have developed in it sug-
gestions to the young girl for evaluating her person—

ality and her relationship to her community. Sections of

the pamphlet deal with social, creative, and spiritual de-
velopment and with health.

IANUARY 1945

Your Career in Music

By Harriett Johnson. E. P. Dutton and Company, New
York. $3.00.
WRITTEN FOR THE PERFORMER—0r the person who hOpes
to become a performer—in one of the many
branches in the field of music, this book discusses the
opportunities of music as a career. In the words of the
author, the book’s aim is “to present a'timely picture Of
musicians working at their numerous and different jobs
throughout-the country.” Boogie-woogie and the bar-
monica as well as symphony and grand opera come within
the scope of the volume. There are, too, chapters on
composing and on musical criticism, music for the cinema
and for the radio. The study is one of a series Of books
on careers published by Dutton in recent years.

Our Young Folks ,

By Dorothy Canfield Fisher. Harcourt, Brace and Com-
pany, 383 Madison Avenue, New York 17. $2.75.

How ARE OUR YOUNG PEOPLE getting along in their towns,

home states and home nations? What do they need
to give them a chance for full, useful and happy lives?
Can local boys and girls get local work to do or" must
they go away to find jobs? What means have been de—
vised to provide for them what they need? How much

of what they need has already been provided by these
means?

Mrs. Fisher, who has been an active member Of the
American Youth Commission from its inception, answers
some Of these questions in an informal talk with her fel-
low citizens. '

Timothy's Tunes
By Adeline McCall. Drawings by Anna Braune. The

Boston Music Company, Boston. $1.50.
TIMOTHY rs A MOUSE with good advice about ears and
their uses for very young children. By following in
Timothy’s footsteps and using the tunes in his book, the
tiny tot section of the populace can get a head start on
their musical education. Adeline McCall has developed a
method of teaching very young children to play the piano
(or the Xylophone or Psaltery) which is here set forth
with simplicity and charm. The pupil starts with listening,
proceeds tO singing, then tries his hand at playing. The
tunes begin with chants on one note and increase in range

and difiiculty until the whole octave is used.

Behind the Microphone

By John J. Floherty. J. B. Lippincott Company, New
York. $2.00.

EXCELLENT PHOTOGRAPHS and an interesting collection

of anecdotes make good reading about the history of
radio from the first weak “S” sent across the Atlantic by
Marconi in 1901 until the present day. Here is a book
that will take the reader behind the scenes of the radio
industry to give him some small idea of the actual and
potential power of this baby (relatively speaking) in the
family of the communications arts.

SS9

560

Handbook for Guardians of Camp Fire Girls.

Camp Fire Girls, Inc., 88 Lexington Avenue, New
York 16. $.60.

Here is a manual for Camp Fire Girls leaders that
should prove of value to other group leaders as well.
The book is in two parts. The first section deals with
organization and leadership; the second is a compilation
of activity suggestions under dramatics, nature lore,
handcrafts, music, and similar headings.

For Country and Mankind.

By Bernard J. Reines. Longmans, Green, and Com-
pany, New York. $2.25.

Mr. Reines has brought together twelve short plays
. rooted in American history and tradition. Many of them
can be produced without costumes or scenery. Each of
them has been demonstrated in pr-oduction‘as a “play-
able” piece. The book should 'help till the need for plays
for special occasions such as “Book Week,” “Be Kind
to Animals Week,” and similar “weeks” that call for
celebration from time to time. The plays require no
royalty when produced on stage by amateur groups.

Songs of Fightin China.

Chinese News Service, 1250 Sixth Avenue, New
York. $.50.

The war has brought a new music to China, During
the period since the Japanese invasion of Manchuria,
choral singing has developed for the first time, and new
composers have written fighting songs for a China on the
marcli. This collection of eleven songs was first pub-
lished in Chungking under the title, China’s Patriots
Sing. The OOpies of the first edition which were sent to
the United States have now run out, and popular demand
from American audiences has made it necessary to issue

an American edition.

The songs in the collection were selected lby Mr. Lee
Pao-chen with the help of students and choral groups,
and are representative both of the most pOpular tunes in
China and of the most pOpular composers.

Junior Hi Kit, No. 1.

Edited by Park Hays Miller and Donald Lomas.
The Westminster Press, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

$2.00.

Here is a collection of program suggestions for leaders
of church clubs for boys and girls in the twelve to four-
teen age group. Included in the kit are plans for pro-
gramming meetings devoted to study, fun, worship, ser-
vice activities, Special occasions. A sponsor’s manual goes
with the program material.

The Society Kit, Vol. II, published by the same com-

pany and edited by the same editors is a companion piece ‘

to the Junior Hi Kit. It is a compilation of programs
and topics for young people of different ages gathered in
church societies or clubs.

The Music Curriculum in a Changing World.

By Lilla Belle Pitts. Silver Burdett Company, New
York. $2.20.

Curriculum planners are being constantly challenged by
changing events and conditions surrounding their educa-
tional world. A suggestion for meeting one such chal—
lenge is given in a pattern music curriculum. It is based
on a conception that a child lives in four worlds. the
worlds of men, of nature, of material invention, and of
the creative imagination; and upon the belief that the
teaching of music must be related to the child’s experience
of life. Five charts illustrate the suggested curriculum
in its overall and its detailed aspects.

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Recreational Activities for Crippled Children.

Prepared by_ Mrs. Lois Perrin. State Services tor
Crippled Children, University of Iowa. O'btaina-ble

from Extension Service, State University of Iowa,
Iowa City, Iowa. $1.00.

Since play is an essential part of every child’s life, it
should have an important place in hospitals and homes
where there are handicapped children. This booklet has
beon compiled for the use of mothers of convalescent
children, for nurses on children’s wards, and recreation
departments of children’s hOSpitaIs. Its purpose is to help
the child maintain normal recreation as far as possible
even though he is. ill. There are sections on active and
quiet games, spastic activities, bed and Shop crafts, songs,
and speCial parties. Suggestions are offered fdr appro-
priate toys. ‘

Creative Schools.

National Education Association, 1201 16th Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C. $2.00.

The twenty-third yearbook issue of The National Ele-
mentary Principal reports on current projects in creative
education. Its thirty-eight articles describe educational
methods that go far, far beyond the old “rea-din’, ’ritin',
and ’rithmetic” curriculum. Though written primarily

from the point of view of the schoolroom the material
reaches well outSide its four walls and suggests an im-

portant approach to WOrk with boys and girls wherever it
goes on.

Ofiicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice—President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Boaro
GUSTAVUS T. KiRav, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS. New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta. Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

