A Discovery as Important as the
Use of Atomic Energy

AKING USE of the power of the atom is a great achievement in the physical world. We cannot.
tell where this may lead.

An equally great discovery of our times is the power there is in recreation in making.it pos—
sible and easy for all people to live richly, deeply, vitally each day.

For lack of a better word we speak of recreation. We think of all that children, youth,
fathers and mothers want to do when they are free to do what they ch005e, what makes the days
and weeks worth while, what gives continuing growth and enduring satisfaction.

From the lowest depths of man’s nature comes the cry, "Give us this day our daily life——
not tomorrow, next year, or after we are three score and ten.”

Therefore, we save the beauty of nature in our parks, help hands to become skilled in making
objects of beauty, give opportunity for drama, for rhythm and music, for all sound that is beautiful.
encourage the making of gardens, the keeping of pets, the building of playgrounds and parks and
athletic fields, the flooding of lots for skating, the setting aside of ocean beaches. Therefore, we try
to find ways of making it easy for us all to keep the simplicity, strength, wisdom and the comrade—
ship of little children as we add years. Therefore, we want pe0ple as long as they breathe to con-
tinue to know the joys of growth and development each day through recreation. True, they who
consciously seek happiness for themselves may seldom find it.

Yet in the home and in the neighborhood where there is aliveness to. the beauty of the world,
to the joy of doing many things together, where there is constant growth through activity together,
where the recreation way of life prevails, where each person finds it possible to be the man his inner
nature demands, then man is more fully man and so many of the ills of society fall away. The
expulsive power of a great constructive force is felt.

Build life strong through recreation and you help to lessen poor physical and mental health.
delinquency and crime and much of ill will. But, if instead of thinking of building life itself you
start out merely to work consciously for lessening crime and insanity, you are apt to lose out in your
objective. That which is lost if sought directly may be had if it is not sought. The blue bird easily
fiies away.

And this is the law of the world which we the people have discovered for ourselves! — Give
us strong, permanently satisfying daily life, give us daily Opportunity for growth through activity
we ourselves have chosen, help us each day to have freedom to do the things that belong to complete
manhood—do this and most other things shall be added unto us.

In the spiritual world the discovery of recreation, of the recreative way of life, is as great a
discovery as electricity, as potent as the finding of the power of the atom in the physical realm.

Man cannot live by machinery alone. When men ask for warm human living shall we give
them machinery?

In older times common men lived in their dreams. The playing of musical instruments for
many was to be in another world. '

Now we know that we have it in our power to make the day by day as beautiful and as
satisfying as the fulfillment of a dream.

It is in our power—now—under God—through the recreative way of life to develop such
living in our homes and our neighborhoods that we all may feel that we live on holy ground, that
many shrubs about us are burning bushes, that the land of hearts’ desire is not something far off,
that we all who share a common beauty are brothers, that we all who have learned to share common
activity with little money and little price are part of a very great democracy.

It is everlastingly important to build this way of daily living.

The power of the atom is such that we may have little time for building the greatest of all

democrac —demo'crac in livin ' e .
. y y g Its If HOWARD BRAUCHER

SEPTEMBER I945 .
281

September

Look M canine Photograph

RECREATION

 

Where Can a Girl
Climb a Tree?

By

WILLIAM T. VANDERLIPP

LTIIOUGH as a technician and planner I do not
A pretend to any exact knowledge of your art,
still I was born and raised in Essex County,
New Jersey. Essex County has a very fine park
commission, and, as a life-long resident of the
county, I am familiar—too familiar, perhaps—
with the manner in which they have beautified
many an old field, meadow or lake, where as a boy
I had much fun. The old places have been made
over, have been made beautiful, pretty to look at——-
so pretty in fact that many of them are hard to
identify any longer. This is, perhaps, as it should
be. It is the way you “parkers” want it. But for
me you have destroyed those wild places where, as
a boy, I was wont to roam; and so, while I can-
not talk technically of your work, I do want to
talk to you for a short time rather feelingly.

Tell me, where in your parks can a girl climb a
tree or pick a daisy or a buttercup, or where can
a boy roll down a hill in the summer and get his
clothes all green with grass, or go sledding in the
winter?

I

“I Remember —’

I knew as a boy the remnants of an estate. I
never knew the owner. He was gone and his
estate destroyed before I came on the scene, but I
have good reasons for remembering it. Mr. Boppe
must have been a wealthy man in his day and, in
the manner of_ his kind, he graced his front entrance
with large brown stone pillars to hold his iron
gates. These posts were about three to four feet
square at the base, and perhaps seven to eight feet
high, and were ornamented with caps and a large
round stone ball on top. There were two of them.
When we happened along, the gates were gone
but the posts and the hinge brackets were still
there to afford venturesome boys (and some girls)
a foothold to climb to the top of the pillars, and to
sit upon the great stone balls.

To us, Mr. Boppe was a great benefactor. I am
sure that for a long time after he was dead Ihis

SEPTEMBER 1945

 

Print by Cody: Harman

great stone gate gave pleasure and a spirit of ad—
venture to many in a degree far greater than any
joy he could have experienced as owner of the
gateway. It was my brother’s misfortune to fall
from this stone gate and to break his arm. I know
that no parking authority would ever leave any-
thing around so that a boy could break his arm!

Such was my faith in the stories of childhood
days that I well remember getting up very early
one Easter morning to visit the Boppe Estate,,
looking for a long time among the debris which
accumulated under the remaining shrubbery for
Easter eggs—lovely, colored eggs—which I under-
stood the rabbit would leave during the night for
those early on the spot to find. I remember going
home disheartened and empty—handed, only to find
the rabbit had left the eggs in a corner of the
living room. Tell me, where today can a boy
repeat an experience like that?

Also, I remember Branch Brook Lake,'now a
nice, a very nice park, and I remember that section
just beyond it which we called the “Blue Jays,”
today a part of Branch Brook Park. As a boy I
knew every foot of the area around Branch Brook
Lake. I recall very well a hill on the west side.
On its top an old woman who kept chickens lived
in a decrepit house. I used to clean out the c00ps
occasionally and was rewarded with a quarter and
a nice lot of chicken lice, about which my mother
always complained. The hill was steep, going right
to the shore of the lake. In summer we used to
roll down its grassy slopes, and in winter we used
it for tobogganing.

Then Came the Planners!

Then along came the Park Commission with its
beautifiers'and its landscape architects and all that,

283

284 WHERE CAN A GIRL CLIMB A TREE?

and virtually ruined the place. The hill is gone,
the outline of the lake is changed, and, while I
confess the place is no doubt beautiful, I still look
at it with the eyes of a boy and wonder why it was
necessary to change it all, and just what children
of today do for pleasures which were mine.

When the Park Commission acquired the Branch
Brook area, they also purchased the “Blue Jays.”
This was a delightful piece of woods adjoining on
the north, in which we could tramp all day and in
season find dogwood, dogtooth violets, jack-in-the-
pulpits, and many other lovely things. It was to
the “Blue Jays” that I used to go to get dogwood
for crotches for my sling shots. I suppose if a
boy cut a dogwood today in any of your parks, or
even carried a sling shot and the park police dis-
covered it, he would be chased off the grounds.

Mr. Boppe’s estate went into building lots and
Branch Brook, as I have indi-
cated, was taken over by the
Park Commission, and so the
places we enjoyed so much
have seen laid waste.

The Matter of Grass

Then, there is the matter
of your grass. I want to talk
to you about the grass. The
parks have such 'beautiful
grass. I used to lie down and
roll in just such grass and I
often wonder what a boy to-
day does for a good grassy
patch to play in. I can perhaps illustrate with a
little story, or rather a picture which I saw some
years @go in a magazine, a picture of a mother
rabbit and her brood. You saw a small house with
a back porch at ground level, a fence running
alongside, mother rabbit standing on the porch
with her hands on her hips watching a half dozen
bunnies running around playing in the grass, a
kindly old neighbor looking over the fence to
chat with the mother. The neighbor said, “My,
my, those bunnies will kill off all your grass.”
“But,” said the mother, “I am raising bunnies.”

So I would wish to remind you that the raising
of children is still the prime occupation of man-
kind, and that only as parks, recreational areas,
and grass contribute to that purpose are they use-
ful and, to my mind, pretty. So I would urge you
to take all your “keep off the grass” signs and pile
them in one place and have a nice fire, as we used
to do on election night with barrels and boxes.

Mr. Vanderlipp is Director of the Division
of Planning and Engineering of the new
State Department of Economic Develop-
ment which recently took over the func-
tions of the New Jersey State Planning
Board. In an address given before the
annual meeting of the New Jersey Parks
and Recreation Association he modestly
stated that his knowledge of parks is
slight. However that may be—and we
question it——-Mr. Vanderlip 's apprecia-
tion of parks in their natura state is any-
thing but slight! Some of our readers will
sympathize with his nostalgic memories.

- Or, if you still think there should be a spot of un-

trodden grass, put the signs end to end in a circle
in the center of the park and inside the circle
maintain this spot of beauty for all to see. Inside
the circle mount still another sign'which says,
“This is what grass looks like when‘it serves no
useful purpose.”

About Climbing Trees

Now this matter of climbing trees. It seems to
me that this is one of the great adventures of a
child. A tree with many branches is an alluring
thing to a child, and still has its attraction to some
grown-ups. (Did you ever look longingly into a
good—size tree and wish it might not be deemed
unseemly or undignified to climb into it—~—just for
the fun of doing so?) And so I wonder what you
have done in your parks for a girl who wants to

climb a tree. I imagine if any-

one essayed to attempt this
in any of your parks, he or
, she would promptly be taken
in hand by a park officer and
requested to do their tree
climbing elsewhere. A tree
has its hazards, of course.

This is what makes it attrac-

tive. I can understand that

you don’t want pe0ple climb-

ing trees in your park, but

could you not arrange some-

where to plant some soft ash

trees—those trees where the
branches grow opposite to each other, the next
year’s growth coming out at another side——excel:
ilent trees for climbing—easy trees to grow and not
much loss when they are gone. These would afford
a chance for venturesome children to overcome
their fear and to develop strength. To climb a tree
with leaves is so much morc fun than climbing
jungle bars.

On Picking Daisies

Say, did you ever pick daisies? Well, I have and
could still do so. I like a nice, clean, white daisy.
\‘Ve lived in the city. My mother had two favorite
plants—~one was a fuchsia, the other was a potted
Marguerite, which you will recognize as a culti-
vated daisy. Well, I liked the scarlet and deep
purple of the fuchsia, and I have always liked
clean, white, daisies. I wonder what a child does
today when he wants to pick a daisy, a wild flower.

( C ontinued on page 324)

RECREATION

Know Your Places to Play

ORTLAND, OREGON, is sy-
P nonymous to thousands of

people who have never
been west of the Mississippi
with the Kaiser shipyards. The
people who live in Portland have many another
reason for pride in their city—not least among
them its plan for providing recreation not only
for its own “family” but for the strangers within
its gates. Sports, games, drama, music, arts and
crafts, dancing—Portland’s Bureau of Parks and
Public Recreation can be, in its own field, all things
to all men. It has the facilities, the equipment, the
leadership, and the sure knowledge that all these
things don’t amount to a row of beans unless they
are used.

The ofiicials of the park bureau very wisely
decided that an up—and-coming publicity policy was
a must. They are constantly on the lookout for
new ways to keep the grass off the path beaten
between their projects and the community’s cons-
ciousness. In February they teamed up with the
Junior Chamber of Commerce in what turned out
to be a first-rate
idea. A “Know
Your Places to
Play” campaign
was inaugurated
on February 18.

The pattern out-
1 i n e d i o r t h e
week’s campaign
was designed to
give the public
glimpses of the
many facets of the
city’s public recre-
ation plan and to
remind Portland-
ers that the park
program provides
a wide enough and
varied enough
range of sports and
recreational fare to
appeal to every
appetite for whole-
some fun and re—

SEPTEMBER 1945

By RUTH STRODE
Director of Publicity
Bureau of Parks and Public Recreation
PortlandI Oregon

laxation. Newspapers published
daily accounts of special pro—
grams, sports events, and other
activities with editorial com-
ment on the importance of rec-
reation in community life and in the war-way of
living. Posters of sports events and tournaments
of city-wide scope were displayed in key stores and
buildings in every section of the city. Invitations
to visit public community buildings and play areas
were extended through community newspapers,
the PTA, Camp Fire Girls, and school publica—
tions, and were voiced many times at meetings of
various clubs and civic and social organizations.
Most interesting and valuable were the “live”
windows. All kinds of “stunts” were pulled off.
Here is a sure-fire attraction for sidewalk audi-
ences. When sound was added to the living and
moving pictures, pedestrians just couldn’t resist

(Continued on page 319)

This playground class demonstrated
its activities in a "live" window

Tiw’3r
O

 

Education's New Obligations

LIZABETH City County

By G. A. DOWLING

sure time may be used as

lies low in that tide— Dire°+°r an opportunity for the
water section of Vir- El'zabelh C'iY C°UnlY Recrealw" Deparimenl greater realization of life
ginia where once rich and Hamle‘u V'rg'ma land not as a menace to

poor, high and low strug-
gled together to bring “a new birth of freedom”
from the swamps, the fever—ridden reaches of the
wilderness. The small county with its two small
cities, Elizabeth City and Hampton, is chock—a-
block with history. Travelers from England passed
the low—lying peninsula on their way up that
estuary of the great river that led them at long last
to the dubious haven they called Jamestown. Corn-
wallis surrendered just north‘ of the county’s
boundaries. Its earth is water- . x"
lapped by Hampton Roads
where the first ironclad ships
fought their wierd battle as
an episode in the fratricide of
the Civil War. Today Nor-
folk and Newport News and
Portsmouth, across the
waters, are centers of naval
activity in this greatest of all
wars; and Hampton itself is
the sight of the experiment
in racial cooperation known as Hampton Institute.
At Hampton, too, it is recorded that Benjamin
Symes in 1634 gave “200 acres of ground, the
milk and increase from eight cows, to maintain a
learned and honest man to operate a free school.”
Twenty-five years later one Thomas Eaton gave
500 acres of land to support a free school for the
education of children born in Elizabeth City
County. Thus came into being, during the first
half of the seventeenth century, one of the first
free schools to be set up in the colonies of America.
Through the years the school thus created per-
petuated the memory of the men who founded it.
The original school building was destroyed. Re-
built, it became a part of the whole system of ele—
mentary education offered free to all everywhere in
the United States. In the course of time, newer
and better equipped schools superseded the Symes—
Eaton Academy and it was abandoned for public
school purposes. But it continued to serve the
purposes of Benjamin Symes and Thomas Eaton.
It became a community center, a place where lei-

tofore.

286

"Although democracy is still the major
function of education in America," says
Mr. Dowling, ''our responsibility
ended by merely giving youth a knowl—
edge of the tools of learning, as here-
Public education must now
assume new obligations."

Some of these new obligations are
suggested in this story telling of a new
use for an old schoolhouse.

democracy.

When Symes and Eaton, dreaming a century
before Jefferson’s birth the Jefferson—dream of
total education, gave of their wealth to make their
vision real there was little leisure problem. There
was, indeed, little leisure——none that could not be
taken care of in family or neighborhood gatherings
at home or church or court or market place. “Get-
ting and spending” was a full—time job for the
whole family. But as work hours became less
exacting, as idle hands he-
came a more frequent temp—
tation to Satan’s ingenuity, it
was increasingly apparent
that leisure was potentially
as full of evil as of good
works; that people needed
training in its intelligent use.
This training in“ time was
recognized as a challenge to
schools, to recreation centers,
to parks and playgrounds and
libraries and homes—in short to the whole com-
munity working together for all the people of the
community. ‘

Recreation, like education, has come to be rec—
ognized as part of the development of the whole
person. To that end the Elizabeth City County
Recreation Department was established in June
1944, under the supervision of the Superintendent
of Schools of‘ the county.

The program worked out under his leadership
is already, in its fledgling state, showing results.
It is a community—wide program for young people
and adults alike. Its emphasis is upon athletics.
Softball, horseshoe pitching, tennis mark the sum—
mer; touchball and football the autumn; basketball
the winter months. There are teams for boys and
girls and adults. After—school play centers and
indoor recreation centers, teen—age centers and
USO clubs for industrial workers augment the
outdoor activities. A parents’ neighborhood coun-
cil has been developed at each playground. Its job

( Continued on page 325)

is not

RECREATION

Neighborhoods of Tomorrow

I-IE FIRST THING that
Tvisitors saw upon enter—
ing the recent “Neigh—
borhood of Tomorrow” Ex-
hibition of the Citizens’ Planning Council of San
Jose, California, was a dream in miniature—a resi-
dential community for 1,500 families developed
around a central open area of 41 acres in which
25 acres were set aside for active sports.
“That would be swell,” said a high school stu-
dent who came to see the exhibition.
“It would certainly be a grand place to live,”
exclaimed some of their elders.
“Impractical—visionary,” scoffed a few.
The Citizens’ Planning Coun—
cil anticipated that there would

By MEL SCOTT

Executive Director, Citizens' Planning Council
San Jose, California

neighborhoods with good
housing and ample play
space can replace old, run-
down sections of the present-
day city. Another map, based on studies by the
San Jose City Planning Commission, showed un-
developed areas inside the city limits for residen-
tial districts like that presented in the model can
be created.

The recreation section of the exhibition, like all
other sections, was developed around a panel from
the Museum of Modern Art exhibition. This panel
proclaimed that “a good neighborhood has a park.”
Beside it was a superb photograph by Brett Wes-
ton of children playing on vari—
ous types of recreation appa—

be a minority who would con—
denm this model neighborhood
as just too good ever to be
realized.

Throughout the “Neighbor‘-
hoods of Tomorrow” show

The Citizens' Planning Council of
San Jose, California. is "on its toes,"
looking ahead with intelligent hope
toward a better community for all the
citizens of the town. A part of their
plan is educationI and to this end
they set up a "dream in miniature"

ratus, and on an adjoining
wall was another large map of
San Jose, showing sites of
three neighborhood parks that
will be developed after the war
at a total cost of approximately

appeared photographs of de- so Hm; everyone _ like Chicken $200,000. One site is 9 acres,
velopments in which the physi— LiHle — could see with his eyes one is 15, and the third is 26
cal amenities, including play- their neighborhood of tomorrow acres.

fields and fine recreation equip-
ment, have been provided; and
at the very end of the exhibition there was a dis-
play of popular magazines that have recently pub—
lished articles on playgrounds, community centers,
schools designed for community use, shopping
centers with social-commercial features and other
facilities that make a neighborhood a good place
in which to live.

“Where could you create a neighborhood like
this?” San Joseans asked as they studied the model
of the “Neighborhoods of Tomorrow,” noting how

it would be possible for children to go from any ‘

home in the area to nursery schools, the element—
ary school, the churches and neighborhood club
houses, the park, and to the shopping center with—
out crossing a single dangerous thoroughfare.
Other sections of the. exhibition provided the
answer to this question. A large map of the city
showed in relief the blocks in which forty per cent
or more of the dwellings are sub—standard, while
panels of'a circulating exhibition from the Museum
of Modern Art in New York City entitled “Know
Your Neighborhood” suggested thatiwell-planned

SEPTEMBER 1945

The section of the exhibi—

tion devoted to community

centers featured a model of the beautiful commu-
nity center in Palo Alto. San Jose has no centers
at present, although it does have four modern
junior high schools which, with the addition of
certain facilities, could become recreation centers.
Here again was a panel from the Museum of
Modern Art exhibition, pointing out that “a good
neighborhood has a community center.” Photo-

graphs and a plan of the Palo Alto center com--
pleted, the display.

“Tomorrow” Is Already Here

The thinking of the Citizens’ Planning Council
that went into the making of this exhibition is
described in a printed brochure which was dis—
tributed to all visitors at the exhibition. This
brochure read in part:

“In many communities in the United States, and
Latin America, the type of neighborhood presented
by the Citizens Planning Council of Greater San
Jose as the “Neighborhoods of Tomorrow” already

(Confirmed on page 324)

287

Choral Art: Democracy in .MLlSlC

HE HAPPY FACT is that group sing-
Ting—the choral art—has more to

offer to the enrichment of community life in
America than any of its compatriot recreational or
art activities; and the sad fact is that, with a few
notable exceptions, it has been the exercise of a
limited few who happened to belong to the same
school, church, or social order. For one of the
great potentials of a working democracy, choral
singing has received rather lonesome treatment.

One man paints a picture. Fifteen people are
enough for a “little theatre.” Two dozen men with
muscles can handle both sides of almost any sport
situation, and thirty to fifty can do a job on the
“Poet and Peasant Overture.” But one hundred
fifty or fifteen hundred people with fallen arches
and ten thumbs can make like a chorus—and can
do it in terms of the Brahms “Requiem” or “The
Night Is Young and You’re So Beautiful,” or any-
thing in between.

There really is no reason why the choral art
should be so slow. Almost everyone likes to sing;
almost everybody can handle a series of recogniz-
able pitches. And while any conductor is happy to
have a “trained” voice or two in his chorus, and
will make welcoming noises at a “musician”—
someone who can read—there still are a lot of
good choruses built of men and women whose only
studio is the bathroom shower. This is the first
unique attribute of the choral art: it requires only
the sincere desire to sing. No years at the con-
servatory; no tediously acquired coordinations.
They won’t hurt, but you can get along without
them.

The second unique feature of choral singing is
that absolutely none of the world’s great choral art
is impossible of performance by amateur singers.
Amateur orchestras are extending their repertoire
tremendously, but virtuoso symphonic performance
will rest with professional instrumentalists, and
major works will wait their attention. That is not
true of choral singing. You do not have to begin
with the C-Major scale or “The Happy Farmer.”
There are Schubert masses, Bach chorales, Ameri-
can folk songs, madrigals, and rounds—as beauti-
ful as they are simple. And even the most difi'icult

works will succumb’to desire and determination to
sing.

288

By ROBERT SHAW

In the third place—and this seems
to me the most important factor—
choral singing is uniquely the democratic art. It is
not simply that choral art is a group art in which
many may participate (though any group art is
destined to grow in importance in our time and
place); what I have in mind is what singing to-
gether does to the attitudes and understanding of
the pe0ple who participate. It’s both motive and
result: you like the fellow next to you, and you
know that together you can make something a lot
more beautiful than either of you could manage by
himself. Everybody has a part here. I mean
artistically, not merely by the addition of sound.
The successful chorus is one in which each person
carries the interpretative responsibility. Everybody
creates. And the creation of beauty at this point
depends upon mutual respect and understanding.
If you have enough good will—for the composer
and his music, for each other as sensitive human
beings, and for your. audience as more of the same
——you have good performance.

Add to this the fact that song means for the
most part not only notes but a common native
language. That common language means a com-
munity of thought and feeling, and that the whole
structure winds up in a declaration of mutual de-
pendence.

Not Enough

It’s really pretty silly. We fill our public schools
full of glee clubs and choirs, and at graduation we
say, “That’s nice. Fun, wasn’t it? . . .,Now, if
you want any more music, you go home and catch
the Fred Waring Glee Club on the radio.” Only
that cant isn’t enough for most of us. Twisting a
dial is pretty small change for anyone who has
known the real thing. And it’s a tragedy for a
town or city to be full of dial-twisters.

I don’t see how there can be any question but
that the chorus—a big chorus—belongs right in
the heart of community-life, licking all sorts of
social and economic problems—race, labor, delin-
quency ; building understanding, respect, and a lot
of happiness.

I can think of four or five things that would
characterize the program of a successful commu—

( C antinued on page 322)

RECREATION

Recreation
for

Older People

OME TIME AGO the Ben-
jamin Rose Institute.

which administers

funds for the benefit of
needy, aged persons, be—
came interested in the
problem of recreation for
the aged. By direct contact
with its beneficiaries the
Institute had an excellent
opportunity to appraise a
fair number of individual J
situations. Its findings were revealing. In many
instances even among its own pensioners, who are
relatively fortunate as needy old people due to the
exceptionally high quality of the Institute’s assist-
ance program, it was found that opportunities for
appropriate, satisfying recreation and social con-
tacts were sadly lacking.

As a result of these observations, an experi-
mental club of aged persons was operated for a
year. Following this, an experimental program
was conducted at the Goodrich Social Settlement
for another group, many of whose members con—
sisted of Townsend followers. The benefits derived
by these groups of needy old people, both physi-
cally and mentally, seemed so marked that a more
extended experimental '
program was mapped out.

 

 
  

The boys still like

their marbles!

      

- .. "\
  j l“\ I, -

Courtesy M era, A risona, Parks and Playgrounds

or aid from private philanthropy. These clubs
were to be located in social settlements, churches,
and other suitable places. The leader was to have
office quarters at the Benjamin Rose Institute and
work under its direct supervision. A sponsoring
group, known as the Advisory Committee on Rec-
reation for the Aged, was organized to give guid—
ance and counsel in the development of the pro—
gram. This committee is representative of the
Benjamin Rose Institute, the Welfare Federation,
the Jewish Welfare Federation, School of Applied
Social Sciences, Group Work Council of the VVel-
fare Federation, and homes for the aged.
A budget of $3,500 for the year beginning Sep-
tember I, 1941 was set up and financed by grants
from the Benjamin Rose
Institute, the Cleveland

The plan involved em-
ployment of a leader or
director who had had long
and rich experience in
public. welfare work, an
unusual understanding of
the problems of needy,
aged people, and marked
skill in working with them.
His assignment was to de-
velop recreational and so—
cial clubs for persons whose
main source of support was
public old age assistance

SEPTEMBER 1945

"Organized recreation is usually thought of
in terms of children and youth.” states a pam-
phlet issued in January I945, by the Cleve-
land Foundation, "less frequently in terms of
grown personsI and seldom in connection with
the aged. AlsoI recreational needs of adults
under the stress of war are given more atten-
tion in public and private programs. But how
generally is any attention given to recreational
needs of thousands of aged men and women
either during war or in more normal times?"

The pamphlet tells of the experiment carried
on by the Benjamin Rose Institute in providing
recreation and social contacts for its bene-
ticiaries- Here .are a few of the facts.

Foundation, the Thomas
H. White Fund, the two
Welfare Federations, and
the Church of the Cove-v
nant.

The Advisory Commit—
tee pointed out that for
many aged, indigent per—
sons who were recipients
of public assistance or pri-
vate philanthropic aid and
who were past the age of
productive employment
“there is no work and no

289

290 RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE

future. Bare subsistence, bringing with it depriva-
tion, physically, emotionally and socially, results in
disintegration of character and demoralization.”
All too frequently it appeared that loneliness, forced
idleness and lack of any adequate opportunities for
social contacts or normal and satisfying recreation
activities form the lot of these needy old men and
women.

From the modest beginning made in 1941 there
are now fifteen clubs with a total membership of
over 700 men and women. These clubs are located
in settlement houses, public housing estates, and
churches. One is housed in the County Receiving
Home on Franklin Avenue and is made up of
ambulatory patients from the County Nursing
Home as well as people of the neighborhood. Club
members represent different races, different na-
tionalities, different cultural levels. A notable
feature of the progress has been the training and
use of a number of splendid volunteers as leaders
for the clubs. These individuals are giving devoted
and valuable services under the supervision of the
director of the project. The program has grown
to such proportions that one person cannot plan
the club programs and in addition personally con-
duct all of the club meetings. A wide variety of
activities is carried on in the clubs appropriate to
the interests and capacities of these elderly people,
many of whom are well beyond the allotted span
of three score years and ten.

Comments made in the July, 1944, progress

report of the Advisory Committee are most worthy
of quotation.

"Other cities are becoming acutely aware of the
growing problem created by the increasing number of
older people and are watching Cleveland with inter-
est. Mr. Schulze, director of the program, spoke
recently to a large group at the National Conference
of Social W'ork held in Cleveland. Questions raised
by persons from California to Maine showed their
common concern and interest, but apparently only
Cleveland has a broad community program which is
gaining national recognition.

“The first hurdles have
been overcome. Techniques
have been deve10ped and
older men and women who
came together as strangers
have grown into closely knit
groups. They develop friend-
ships, which help replace
lost friends and family. The
weekly meetings offer some-
thing to look forward to,
new ideas to think about,
and fun to -'be remembered.

Here are some extracts from an article by

John J. Griffin, Supervisor, Bureau of Old
Age Assistance, Board of Public Welfare.
Somerville, Massachusetts, in the December
I944 issue of Public Welfare. After dis-
cussing the desirability of providing recre-
ation for the aged in public and private in—
stitutions, and in commercial nursing homes
and hospitals for the chronically ill. Mr. Grit-
fin takes up a problem of special interest to
the recreation worker: "What of public rec-
reation in organized groups for the aged?"

The participants have become more alert, less com-
plaining and in better health as they find that old
age can bring satisfaction's. Certainly these club mem-
bers are better citizens than the disgruntled oldster
without such satisfactions. The next hurdle we face
is to gain a place in the established social welfare pro-
gram of the community. At present the immediate
urgency and dramatic appeal of juvenile delinquency
and the problem of the working mother have over—

shadowed the less dramatic appeal of older pe0ple,
which however must not be lost sight of in long time

planning.”
The Distribution Committee is interested, at all

times, in intelligently conceived and sincerely con-
ducted experimental programs which promise bene—
ficial results for the community and its inhabitants.
It is glad that it has been able to furnish a sub—
stantial part of the money required for the pro—
gram which has been here briefly described. Grants
have been made from the Cornelia \V. Beardslee,
the Jacob Hirtenstein, the George and Sarah Mc-
Guire and the Edward Loder \Vhittemore funds

since 1941 totaling $3,250.

Finally, there is the problem of public recrea-
tion in organized groups for the aged. Is it pos-
sible? Is it feasible? We will not pretend to
answer these questions dogmatically or uncondi—
tionally. we are convinced that they merit study,
discussion, and experiment. . . . However, we
would like to sponsor municipal recreation centers
for the aged. We favor well-planned buildings
equipped with comfortable lounging foyers, game
rooms, reading rooms fully supplied with books,
magazines and newspapers (local and foreign),
lecture halls, hobby rooms, parlors with radios
and victrolas, and all else that would conduce
towards wholesome recreation for the aged. With
the incidence of old age progressing almost geo—
metrically to ,the growth of the general population,
it seems to us that such facilities would represent
a wise investment. Such centers, in the hands of
competent, trained workers, could do much to sal-
vage the present appalling
human wreckage among the
aged. . . .

Public recreation of the
type we conceive would
operate in intimate harmony
with public welfare othcers,
librarians, social agencies,
clergymen, relatives, profes-
sional and business interests.
With suitable facilities

(Continued on page 327)

RECREATION

‘

Teen Fashions

H 0 THE LIVELY music of the
Teen Tavern Tooters, some-
times ‘sweet,’ often ‘hot,’ the

Teen Tavern Fashion Show’s private showing

Monday night got underway. And from that be-

ginning until the last strains of St. Louis Blues

were lost in the cheers of the audience, it was a

tremendous success.

“It was a teen age show—a teen age American
show. Noisy, gay, bubbling with youth and talent
and fun. It was good.”

The above quotations are from the local press,
following the initial presentation of the Teen
Tavern Fashion Show last January 22nd. The
success of the private showing was followed by a
capacity audience the next night, and the show
achieved wide publicity through newspapers over
the state and all over the country. It was described
via radio, presented in newsreels, and caught up
by the Associated Press.

And not only did it bring a glow of justifiable
pride to our city Recreation Department, which
sponsored the organization of Teen Tavern and
has continuously aided in its development, but
gave our budding young designer a good send-off
along the road to success in his chosen profession.

The show fea-
tured styles for
teen—age girls.
The costumes
were designed
and the patterns
were cut by sev-
enteen-year-old
Harry Phillips,
himself a mem-
ber of Teen Tav-
ern. The styles
showed a feeling
for modern fash-
ion trends, with
original treat-
ments that were
often strikingly
good. They in—
cluded all types
of clothes from
lingerie to eve-

SEPTEMBER 1945

By VIRGINIA BAILEY
Columbus. Georgia

ning gowns. Designs were execut-
ed by the mothers of the models.
The saga of the idea’s evolution
from a casual conversation is remarkable and of
the “once-in—a-million” variety. But to present a

\clear picture, it is necessary to digress a bit on the

establishment of Teen Tavern itself as a perma-
nent institution.

This youth center was opened in June of 1944
for the purpose of providing a desirable play pro-
gram for students of the two local high schools.
Interest of public—spirited citizens was secured, and
a local corporation donated a building.

A part of an old cotton mill long since moved to
another section of town was remodeled and equip-
ped with funds donated by civic clubs, business
and industrial groups, and individuals. An archi-
tect gave his services in planning the rejuvenation
of the place; one of the largest lumber companies
underwrote the necessary repairs; paving concerns
paved the walk and built two outdoor shuffleboard
courts. .

A Junior Council, composed of eight members
each from the two high schools and four from the
junior high school, was elected. Membership was

(Continued on page 333)

 

291

 

“rILLAlI Bi A‘H

Sou" Pei?
Vitus-L0 Ayn-urn": '

Barracks to Bathhouse

land, Maine, was looking

around for a superintendent
of recreation. For the first time
the city had allocated funds for
paid recreation leadership. Ten months later the
Recreation and Parks Department issued a prog—
ress report, evidence in statistics of what had been
accomplished. Four playgrounds, a six-team in—
dustrial softball league, playground baseball and
grammar school football leagues, three basketball
leagues, boys’ and girls’ clubs, a community cen-
ter, a skating program, development of park facili-
ties, told a story of mighty efforts and notable
results.

Perhaps one of the most interesting achieve-
ments of the ten months was the use of barracks
buildings once used by the Federal government.
The buildings had been part of Cushing Village, a
Federal Housing Project. Two of the buildings—
barracks measuring 200’ x 30’-—had never been
occupied. The peak load at Portland shipyards had
already been reached in the spring of 1944, so it
seemed reasonable to suppose
that those buildings never would
be needed. It seemed like a good
idea to get hold of the buildings
and put them to work for the
city, especially since the city.

292

IN MARCH of 1944 South Port-

By BERNARD CAMPBELL

Superintendent

Recreation and Parks Department
South Portland, Maine

Have you taken a look around your
city recently? Perhaps there's an
empty building right around the
corner that could be used for rec-
reation. Don'trlet it~egscapei you!

needed very badly a bathhouse
for its Willard Beach, long
neglected but with obvious pos-
sibilities.

The buildings were under the
control of the U. S. Maritime Commission and re-
latious between the Commission and the city were
cordial. That, of course, helped. The Commis—
sion’s Chief Engineer in South Portland agreed to
the transfer and consulted the proper authorities in
Washington. From a past transaction involving
the use of a ferry landing the Commission owed
the city $2,000. The City Council was willing to
accept the buildings instead of the'cash and the
deal was on. The buildings were well made and
well equipped. The floors were hardwood through-
out. Plumbing and heating facilities were excel-
lent and included showers and drinking fountains.

Plans for the use of the barracks were already
set up.

Willard Beach was a natural crescent about a
quarter mile long. From its fine sand one could
look out over the harbor and a group of islands
lovely against the horizon. To
this spot one of the newly ac-
quired buildings was moved. It
was broken down into four sec-
tions for the moving process.

(Continued on page 318)
RECREATION

Meet You at the Rink!

tive” it’s a good idea to get out

the old roller skates and trek to the nearest
skating rink for a spot of good hard exercise! It’s
downright stylish these days to meet the gang at
the rink. What’s more it’s downright fun. It’s
fine exercise and there’s a lot more to skating than
standing up on eight little wheels and rolling down
hill!

There are lots of real rinks dotted around the
United States. But there are also plenty of towns
that don’t have even one rink. Well—here’s the
story of how one community found a way for its
youngsters to skate. In Fairmount, West Vir-
ginia, it happened like this.

IF YOU WANT to “activate the posi-

A Gym Floor

The Superintendent of Public Playgrounds and
Recreation out there in Fairmount had his eye out
for activities that would appeal to boys and girls
of his community. He noticed the increasing vogue
for organized roller skating. So—since he was also
Director of Physical Education and Athletics at a
Junior High School, he began to prospect around
for the possibilities of using the gym for skating.
He went to see the principal of the school and
explained his ideas. The principal wanted to co-
Operate but gym floors are gym floors—more pre-
cious than rubies these days—and the principal
was skeptical. Would the skates ruin the floor?
Well, there was only one way to answer that ques—
tion satisfactorily. Try them out in a small way.
The principal agreed to the testing.

An after-lunch skating party was arranged one
day for about seventy-five boys and girls from the
school. They brought their steel skates along,
buckled them on, and had a high old time till the
bell called them back to classes. After three or four
of these try-outs it was obvious that the principal
- was right. The gym floor was
beginning to show the ill ef-
fects of rough usage. It looked
as if a gym skating rink was
out unless some way could be
found to get around using
steel skates.

Commercial rink managers
were appealed to for advice.

I

SEPTEMBER 1945

University

of the city

By PATRICK A. TORK

When Patrick Tork, now the Assistant
Professor of Physical Education at the
of West Virginia. was Super-
intendent of Public Playgrounds and
Recreation at Fairmount, West Virginia,
he determined that the boys and girls
should have the fun of
~roller skating. But where? How Mr.
Tork answered this question is told here.

They said the answer was fibre-
wheeled skates. These skates were
practical and they did no harm—not even to the
finest floors. Fifteen pair of professional rink
skates were bought forthwith for the school. Their
cost was $3.00 a pair—of which more anon and in
its prOper place.

A First Reaction '

Enthusiasm for skating ate up the school like
prairie fire. The principal, all the teachers, even
an assistant superintendent of schools bought
skates and went (some of them) whirling and
gliding about the gym floor at weekly skating
parties. Of course, there were some who neither
whirled nor glided, just sat down with a dull thudl
But it wasn’t long before even the novices were
giving a good imitation of “floating through the
air with the greatest of ease.”

A School Program

But what about the youngsters? After all, this
started out to be a program for boys and girls.
Well, they were right in there skating from the
very first. Students from the grades and Junior
High asked to be allowed to skate during lunch
period. Two skating sections were organized——
one for grade schoolers, one for Junior High
students. Every other day one group or the other

. held undisputed sway for thirty minutes. Boys and

girls from the upper age groups took over respon-
sibility for running both periods. They distributed
and collected skates. They kept records of the
skaters so that a few enthusiasts wouldn’t mon0po-
lize the “rink” all the time. They cared for the
skates and saw that safety regulations were ob-
served.

Nor was this the only chance the students had
for plain and fancy skating. Clubs, classes, special
groups found the gym open
in the afternoon after school
for thirty and forty minute
periods' under the supervision
of a teacher. From 7:30 to
9:00 each evening skating
parties, chaperoned by faculty
members, had a lot of good,

( Continued on page 322)

293

The County Comes to an Institute

RAVIS COUNTY, TEXAS, looks to Austin for the
things of the city. Among the services-that
Austin provides the county is advice in mat-
ters of recreation. The county has a Rural Youth
Counselor, and in February of 1945 she met with
the staff members of Austin’s Recreation Depart—
ment to consider her work in relation to recreation
in the county. The group held a series of dis-
cussions. FJom them two facts emerged clearly:
Developing and conducting recreation programs
was only one function of the Rural Youth Coun—
selor, but almost all her other duties touched
closely upon recreation.
Her greatest handicap in recreation activities
was the lack of trained volunteer leaders.

The Need for Volunteer Training

There were plenty of organizations in the area.
Home Demonstration clubs and 4—H clubs, Future
Homemakers, Scout troops, churches and schools,
community councils and youth councils, could pro—
vide volunteer leaders. But if their leadership were
to have any value these volunteers had to be
trained. All this was obvious to the naked eye.
The problem was how to reach these potential
leaders. It did not seem wise to try to take an
institute to the county. Twenty-four communities
were involved and neither the Youth Counselor
nor recreation leaders in Austin could fit so many
institutes into already full schedules. The solution

seemed to be to hold a day-long institute in the

c1ty.

Austin is the trading center for Travis County.
County people, there as elsewhere, come “to town”
on Saturdays for business and shopping that can-
not be done in their own communities. The Recre—
ation Department offered its facilities and staff for

a Saturday institute. April 7 was ultimately sel-
ected as the date.

Preliminary Plans

In Austin, the Chamber
of Commerce, through its
agricultural committee, had
been conducting commu-
nity night programs in the
rural areas for many years.
The members of the com-
mittee knew the people and

294

Austin, Texas. has ideas about recreation.
In the August issue of RECREATION we told the
story of their realistic approach to a commu-
nity-wide drama program in the future. Here
is the tale of how the Recreation Department.
the Chamber of Commerce, and the Rural
Youth Counselor combined forces to provide
recreation training for volunteer leaders in the
many rural areas that make up Travis County.

the people’s interests. It seemed the part of wis—
dom to cnlist the committee’s aid in promoting the
idea and advertising the proposed institute. The
Chamber of Commerce was eager to work with the
Rural Youth Counselor and the Recreation De-
partment on matters of publicity and on other de—
tails, and offered to provide a free lunch—barbe—
cue style—to everybody who registered for the
institute.

In each community key people were interviewed
with reference to the probable reaction of their
neighbors to leadership training. The enthusiasm
and the assurance of community support that came
from these leading citizens sent the interviewers
home eager to begin actual work on plans and
program.

Organization

Planning the Agenda. During March the Rural
Youth Counselor visited in each community all
clubs and organizations. She told them about the
proposed institute, asked them for their ideas about
specific needs and wants. All these suggestions
were put together and studied by the committee in
charge of plans. Out of the compilation came the
over-all agenda for the day. What the communi-
ties wanted was training in social recreation lead—
ership, club leadership and organization, commu—
nity music, and games for family, church, and
school.

Publicity. The task of publicizing the institute
also was started in March. Wordfof-mouth adver-
tising was first on the list. A week before the
scheduled date a letter was sent to presidents of
Home Demonstration clubs and P.T.A. groups, to
teachers and principals of all county schools, and
to community leaders suggested by the Rural
Youth Counselor and the Chamber of Commerce.
Enclosed with the letter were bulletins giving de-
tails of the program, and copies of these were
posted in schools, churches,
and stores in each commu—
nity. The Austin paper
carried an article about the
institute on the Sunday
and again on the Friday
preceding its opening and
during the whole week ,

( Continued on page 330)

\

RECREATION

_ Let's Play Together

osr COM MUNITIES in the
United States are recrea—
tion-minded. Each year more

and more cities and towns are

added to the roster of places which have local rec-

reation programs that satisfy their own needs.
This is as it should
be. But there are
few places that have
taken the next step.
Few have begun to
think in terms of
inter-community
recreation.
Inter—community
competition is an
old story by now.
Playground teams
vie with one an-
other in various
sports. Play days
with community
pitted against com-
munity are matters
of history. But we
need in ever—mount-
ing numbers occa-
sions designed to
bring together com—
munity and com-
munity for the fun
and the satisfaction
of playing together.
Inter—community
play days can be
rich experiences for
participants and for
organizers. There are—there must be——-play days
and play days. Each is as individual as the towns
that give them form. It would be inadvisable even
if it were possible to make a single blueprint and
title it “The Ideal Play Day.” Reviewing twenty
years’ experience with many different play day
plans, however, brings to mind certain pitfalls that
should be avoided. If some of these errors seem
so obviously mistakes that they need not be men-
tioned, the excuse for including them is that they
are errors-which have been made, individuallyand

SEPTEMBER 1945

By JAMES H. GROOMS

Superintendent of Recreation
Radburn, New Jersey

 

collectively, not once but many

times. Avoid these things:

Lack of organization in program
planning

Pitting one community against another

Failure to guard participants against over—fatigue
or strain

Planning activities
that are unsuit—
able for boys or
for girls or for
age-groups par—
ticipating

Planning activities
for the boys only,
forgetting that
the girls, too,
should have a
part

Ignoring the plan-
ning committee

Using the occasion
as a money-rais-
ing scheme

Using the best ath—
letes for all the
activities to the
exclusion of the
good, the medium
g o o d, o r t h e
downright poor

Allowing intoler-
ance to influence
participation

Restricting the day’s
activities to one
event

A Plan That Worked

Needless to say, avoiding these errors does not,
£12.90 focto, insure a good play day. Success or
failure will depend upon many things, notably upon
care in making initial plans and enthusiastic co—
operation in carrying them out. Here is one plan
which has worked successfully on three different
occasions and in three separate areas. In 1944 it
was used for a play day involving eight New Jer-
sey communities.

.295

296

Organization

Ridgewood acted as host for
the festivities. The director of
recreation there invited recrea-
tion leaders from several near-
by communities to a first inter-
community play day meeting.
Here the underlying ideas and
objectives of the undertaking were discussed. The
skeletal framework of the plan of organization was

arrived at in this meeting. It .looked something
like this:

Obiectives Aimed At: To develop and spread
the inter-community recreation spirit; to provide
opportunities for the children of various commu—
nities to participate in cooperative activities; to
have fun.

Communities to Be Invited:

Fa i r La w n,
Glen Rock, Ora—
dell, Wyckoff,
Hohokus, Mid—
land Park, Rad-
burn, Ridge-
wood.

Grade and
Age Groups to
Be Invited:
Girls and boys
of the third,
fourth, fifth,
and sixth grades
as of June 1944.

D a t e a n d
Hours: August
2 from 10 A.M.
to 4 RM.

Activities and
Rotating Con-
tests: Songfest,
softball games
for boys and
girls, swim—
ming, thirty-
yard dash, back
to back relay,
softball throw—
ing contest, po-
tato race relay,
posture relay,
broad jump re—

The author of this article has had
twenty-one years of experience as
supervisor of physical education,
athletics, and recreation. During
those years he has taken part in
many play days. Of the one at
Ridgewood he says. ''It was like
a twenty year dream come true."

Three little maids from school and a softball

r w

 

LET’S PLAY TOGETHER

lay, dodge ball contest, wand
relay.

In addition at this first meet-
ing, the group found out what
equipment was available at
Ridgewood, the inviting commu-
nity.. They discussed what adult
leadership would be available
from each community, what methods of scoring
would be used, what safety measures should be
invoked, what would be done about refreshments,
and what kinds of problems might be expected to
come up during the day’s activities. Before ad-
journment the date for a second and last organi-
zation meeting was set.

This second meeting was held two weeks later.
To it came all the direct-
ors and all the assistants

who would help
make the play“
day a success.
The organiza—
tion chairman
had ready cop—
ies of the whole
program. Each
item on the pro—
gram was dis-
cussed in care-
ful detail. The
facilities and
personnel of
each participat-
ing community
were evaluated
and committees
allocated ac-
cordingly. Each
person present
assumed the re-
sponsibility of
interpreting the
whole plan to
his community.
Ridgewood, as
host, agreed to
Mark the play-
field for the
various ac—
activities
Gather equip—

1b- '1 f‘}

( Continued on

page 320)
RECREATION

JEAN and JESS OGDEN

Extension Division
University of Virginia

ery County, Virginia, a beautiful log
. cabin with stone chimney and green
roof meets the eye of anyone about to
enter the school grounds. Its purpose is to
give to a scattered rural community a
recreation and social center.

“You don’t know,” said one of the high
school seniors, “what a warm feeling it
gives you to pass by when school is closed and to
know that under that green roof is our cabin."

The entire community seems to share this sen-
timent, but this particular senior class has a special
right to the feeling. In September, 1939, these
seniors came for their freshman year to a beauti-
ful new $85,000 school plant, replacing the inade-
quate and haphazardous old frame building that
had previously been the school home. The new
building represented five years of untiring effort
on the part of pupils, patrons, and school board
members. Perhaps it was this untiring participa-
tion that made them realize their work was not yet
done. They had the building, but they still had the
problem of knowing how to make it of the greatest
possible value to the community. It was to this
end that a survey was undertaken during the
school year 1939-40.

The survey showed that one of the urgent needs
of the community was a program of adequate rec-
reation facilities for both young people and adults,
fewer than 50 per cent of whom participated in
any kind of constructive use of leisure.

This need was faced with dismay by the fresh-
man class. One section of them——about thirty-five
youngsters—under the guidance of their home-

SEPTEMBER 1945

Ix TlIE RINER community in Montgom-

 

Courtesy National Cash Register C 0.

High school freshmen of the Riner
community put their algebra to an
acid test by figuring needed ma-
terials for a chimney like this one

room teacher tabulated the replies to the questions
on recreation. The teacher saw in their interest
and in the material itself a program for their work
in mathematics, English, and social studies which
he taught them. To hear these children, now
seniors, tell the story convinces one of the sound-
ness of this type of education.

“I never could understand ratios until we started
figuring the cement and sand for our chimney,”
says one.

“I discovered that year what is to be my life’s
vocation,” says another. She learned to use pre—
cision instruments and to make plans carefully
drawn to scale. She will be an architectural engi-
neer——-—and, we prOphesy, a good one.

But we are ahead of the story. The dismay of
these thirtecn-and-fourteen-year-old youngsters re—
sulted from the fact that so many of the question-
naires reported pool rooms and similar places as
the only available recreation facilities. Their teacher

297

298 SUBSTANCE OF THINGS HOPED FOR

suggested that they might do something to remedy
the situation if they wished. He even hinted at a
building which might serve as a recreation center.
It seemed preposterous. But, under his spell, they
began to plan.

“It kinda seems,” one of them now says, “as if
he could look into the future. He knew better than
we did what we could do.”

Figuring Ways and Means

They drew plans. They figured costs. They
considered ways of making the plans reality and
the money more than figures on paper. During the
year they knew they could raise money at parties
and entertainments, but they needed some immedi—
ate cash. They decided to sell $.50 and $1.00 bonds
to be repaid with interest at the end of the school
year. This necessitated careful study of bonds and
interest. It was all new to them, they say, for “we
are just corn-fed, country children” who had never
heard of bonds. But they
learned; and, they maintain,
they knew all about Victory
Bonds when they came along

They also decided to try to
sell memberships in the pro—
posed Recreation Association.
Their plan called for $.50 for
a student membership for one
year, $8.00 for an adult membership for five years,
and $10.00 or more for a life membership. They
designed and printed 500 membership cards with
a picture of the dreamed-of cabin in one corner.
They actually sold about 250 of these. It took real
salesmanship, they say. That’s where their English
came in. They made up their speeches and prac-
ticed on each other. They went out into the com-
munity and tried the speeches. Then they revised
on the basis of experience. Later, thank-you let—
ters and reports gave them ample opportunity to
practice their written English. The letters had to
be right because they~were going to real people.
The reports had to be accurate because they were
concerned with dollars and cents with whose
spending others had entrusted them. .

History teaching was also provided for by this
project. The proposed association must have a
constitution. That of the United States furnished
the model, for their association, though not com-
posed of states, would be composed of a number of
community organizations. Representation for each
must be provided. Also responsibility must be

They needed a recreation center; they
made up their minds they would have
oneI and through their own efforts they
later. secured it! The story of how it was doneI
told in the November first issue of the
bulletin published by the Extension Divi-
sion of the University of Virginia. is
reprinted in RECREATION by permission.

fixed. Eventually a line constitution emerged,
complete with preamble and by-laws.

A Halloween party had heretofore been the best
annual money-making event in the school. For
two reasons this freshman class departed from
custom. In the first place, their plans began to take
shape a little too late for Halloween. In the second
place, their history class was interested in Colonial
times and customs. Washington’s birthday offered
a good Opportunity to combine history and money
making.

By February, there was some money in the
treasury. This was carefully invested to make
more, though donations for the party were also
cheerfully accepted. About 500 people from the
community came to the party, paid admission at
the door, saw a pageant of Colonial America, took
part in a Colonial costume parade with prizes for
the best costumes, went into the side shows, movies,
boxing, beauty contests, and similar activities that
one associates with country
fairs. History was learned,
the money rolled in, and the
community had some of the
recreation it seemed to need.
In all, the class had raised
about $750 that year.

Construction Begins

In the meantime actual work
on the cabin had gone forward. Two citizens who
owned woodlots donated logs. The freshmen took
to the woods with saws and axes. Snow and cold
deterred neither boys nor girls. Others dug the
trench for the chimney which would provide for
the huge fireplace at one end of the cabin.

“Eight by four, that chimney is. I’ll never for-
get,” says one trench digger.

Citizens had donated necessary building ma- .
terials. One merchant gave $50.00 worth of sup-
plies in return for a life membership for himself
and his wife.

When the blueprints were complete, the logs
hauled in, the foundation laid, and the beautiful
stone chimney constructed (a mason had been hired
for this job), an old-fashioned log-raising was held.
The ladies provided a bountiful dinner. The men
and boys placed the logs in position on the foun-
dation. The cabin began to be a solid fact though
much work still remained to be done. With the

help of the agriculture teacher and his students
the work went forward.

(Continued on page 328)
RECREATION

Boys and Girls Together

EVEN A. M. The place had been
S peacefully asleep a minute ago.

Now it was in a turmoil. A
hundred and twenty-five boys and
girls from seven_to fourteen years old dashed for
toothbrush and wash basin. They were a con—
fusion of arms and legs, with sound effects! Thirty
minutes later order would return. Thirty minutes
later 125 voices would be stilled by the one com—
pletely effective method—food. A new day was
beginning at St. Mary’s Lake Camp.

The camp, four miles north of Battle Creek, is
unusual to say the least. It was built by the W.
K. Kellogg Foundation several years ago to be
used as a year—round center where young people
would be given training in health building. When
the United States entered the war, the govern—
ment took over the grounds and facilities as a tem-
porary training base for the Coast Guard. Eventu-
ally the Coast Guard moved out and the camp site
was returned to the Foundation.

This is really the beginning of our tale. For at
this point a group of interested people of Calhoun
County stepped in and leased the property (on a
three year lease at a dollar a year) from the Foun-
dation. The group then set about developing a
camp to be sponsored by the com-
munity for all Calhoun County
boys and girls between the ages
of seven and fourteen regardless
of race, creed, or color.

Plans for the summer were put
in motion at once. The Founda-
tion assisted financially in the
payment of some salaries. The
remainder of the cost came from
fees ($10.00 a week for each
child) and from the Battle Creek
Community Fund as a loan. The
summer program began early in
June. The first week 140 4-H
Club boys and girls came from all
parts of the county. From then
on the camp has been operated
for all other children of the
county. About 125 campers came
each week during the season.

The 4-H Club boys and girls
carried on their club work at

SEPTEMBER 1945

By ARCH R. FLANNERY

Director of Recreation
Battle Creek, Michigan

camp, with the assistance of near—by
farmers who lent their cows and
other livestock for training in judg-
ing. Blind and crippled children,
under the direct care of those trained to teach them,
were among the campers. Most of the youngsters,
of course, were normal Jacks and Jills of the
county’s homes, both rural and urban. All of them
followed much the same program of activities.

The Day’s Program

Breakfast was at 7:30; swimming instruction
and cabin group planning with counselors were
scheduled from 8:15 to II :30. Dinner at noon
was followed by a rest period from 1 to 2 P. M.
Free activity was provided for between 2 and 4
P. M., and from 4 to 5 :15 there was general swim-
ming. Flag retreat came at 5:30, supper at 6:00,
further free activity from 6:35 to 8 :00, a camphre
program somewhere on the camp area from 8:00
to 8 :30, weather permitting, and taps at 9 :00 P.M.

(Continued on page 326)

4-H Club boys and girls con-
tinue club activities at the camp

 

. . 4/.
A Vermont Community Pioneers g/g/i

By IONE E. LOCKE and JULIA J. ROOT
Springfield. Vermont

0MB YEARS AGO we ventured to impress upon
8 our citizens the need of a year-round recrea-

tion program. The idea received support
among our more civic-minded people from the first.
Several organizations contributed sums of money
to help with the project. A group of members
from our Woman’s Club spoke before various or—
ganizations, and other publicity measures were
used to influence public thinking. An article was
put in our town warrant asking for the modest
sum of $500. (This is the method usually em-
ployed in New England towns for securing finan-
cial help.) We were off, but the going was not
easy. We touched near peaks of achievement some-
times and hit new lows of discouragement at
others.

We, the Community Club and Recreation Com-
mission, are located in a building about fifty years
old, formerly used as a machine shop. Just before
the close of World War I some of our public-
minded citizens conceived the idea of a club for
men. The ex-machine shop was lent by a manu—
facturing concern and, with the aid of other manu-
facturers, was put into condition for club pur-
poses. The exterior is crude from an architectural
point of view, but the interior at the time of the
opening in July 1919 was very attractive.;Its chief
asset is spaciousness. It is 170’ x 60’. Before the
club opened women had been given membership
privileges. Three years later children of high
school age were offered the opportunity to become
junior members. After a decade, facilities for the
community were broadened further, and out of that
expansion our present setup has evolved.

We are one of the pioneers in Vermont in estab-
lishing this year-round program, but this fact did
not sink into our consciousness until neighboring
towns began to show an in-
terest in our activities. To
those who may be hesitating
before embarking upon a simi—
ilar project, or to those who
have not quite made their
idea “click” to their entire
satisfaction we say, “Renew

300

lone E. Locke and Julia J. Root are
respectively Executive Secretary of the
Community House and Director of Recre-
ation in Springfield. VermontI where a year
round recreation program has developed
. from a community club housed in an

old machine shop and remade through
the efforts andlthe good will of the town

 

your energies and continue with your efforts, for
as an investment such a program pays royal divi-
dends.” '

Government of the project is vested in two dif-
ferent groups. The Community Club has a small
board of seven members whose function it is to
direct the policies of the club and concern itself
with the maintenance and general welfare of the
building. This is done almost entirely with funds
derived from membership, activities, and rentals.
Certain. overhead expenses are taken care of from
a fund established by the Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion. The youth program and some features of the
adult program are in charge of the Recreation
Commission, a group of fourteen civic-minded
men and women and the recreation staff. Much of
our adult program is self-organized and self—di—
rected from within the respective groups. Our two
administrative staffs work as one. They have their
individual responsibilities, but the same goal and
purpose—recreation for all.

Throughout the country stress is being laid upon
the needs of the teen—age group. Perhaps it is
characteristic of the people of the Green Mountain
State that we do not always
follow p0pular trends too
closely. We do not question
the fact that this age should
be given their share of atten-
tion and responsibility, but
we do not think it necessary
to single them out and there-

RECREATION

A VERMONT COMMUNITY PIONEERS 301

by give them an unprecedented amount of pub-
licity.

Springfield is an industrial town of approxi—
mately 10,000 and it has passed through the so—
called boom period without any marked increase
in youthful social offenders. The reason for this
gratifying situation has never been analyzed; pos-
sibly it is due to a combination of things. The fact
that we are more or less isolated as a community
may be part of the answer. At any rate, we feel
that we have been fortunate indeed. There has been
some demand from the more sophisticated mem—
bers of the teen-age group for a teen-age center,
but the demand was not sufficient to justify the
expense involved in setting up such a place. From
200 questionnaires sent out to parents in regard to
this matter, only twenty—nine replies were received,
most of which were negative. The approach to this
problem—-if it is a problem—was made through
the boys in the lower classes of high school. Along
with planned programs of varying types, special
occasions which are real events are arranged and
looked forward to for weeks, and everything is
done by the recreation staff to make of them oc-
casions to be remembered.

Regulations in regard to school hours vary in

The boys dress fhe part of favorite book heroes

 

SEPTEMBER 1945

communities. In Springfield pupils are in school
from 8:30 A. M. until 4 P. M., so they do not have
too much leisure time. Frequently parents com-
ment on how little time Jane or John have for any
home duties, what with glee clubs, orchestra re—
hearsals, dramatics, debating teams, sports and
studies. Supplementing these activities are church
affairs and individual social and recreational life.

In adjusting young pe0ple to the present day
and the future our leaders have started with the
preschool child and have carried out a program
reaching large groups of each age level up and
through the high school. Through the junior mem-
bership plan, boys of all ages can enjoy the facili—
ties of the Community Club at all times. En-
couragement is given them in indoor sports. Good
reading matter' is always available to them. There
is sufficient supervision to insure good behavior,
but not enough to make the boys feel conscious of
it. They are free to use the gymnasium, bowling
alleys, and showers almost any day and in the eve-
nings at specified times and game tables are avail-
able at all times. There are very few girls of high
school age who are members.

In a town of this type the industrial groups are
of great importance in the planning, and a diversi-
fied program is given them. Men and women en-
joy both indoor and outdoor activities. Their rec-
reation is also a concern of the sh0ps in which they
are employed, and their
recreation committees work
with the recreation staff of
the town—-or perhaps the
reverse might be truer,
since the services of the
staff as well as the facilities
of the club are offered to
the plants. With their own
leadership, the people in
industry plan much of
their own program.

At the moment, the over-
all picture of recreation in
Springfield is good, but it
has not yet included as
many participants as those
of us in recreation wish it
did. Like every spot in the
country, many of our
young men and women are
with the armed forces and
the drop in participation is

understandable.
(Continued on page 332)

What They Say About Recreation

11 MAN MIGIIT BE BORED if told a lot about rec-
A reation, but if he happens to come across a
beautiful landscape in a city he is not likely

to be offended. Those who have helped to deveIOp
such scenery have not injured him.”———foseph Lee.

“I look for a vast expansion of recreation activi-
ties following the war. The big problem in recre-
ation as in education is to go forward without
losing the deeper moral and spiritual values which
make both significant.”-——Joy Elmer Morgan.

“Music is not only an extremely personal art,
but it is also the most social of arts. Music is
made to be enjoyed in fellowship with others.”———
Harry Robert Wilson in Lead a Song.

“The defense against a bad idea is a better idea;
the defense against a half truth is a truth; the
defense against propaganda is education; and it is
in education that democracies must put their trust.”

-—-—Dr. William F. Russell.

“America must answer quickly the question,
‘W’hat way leisure?’ Shall it be a terrifying
spectre and a perpetual social hazard or shall it be
the welcome chance for useful and creative activity

—not a calamity, but an opportunity.”—W. W.
Willard in Which Way Leisure?

“Play is part of the education of the American
child. we want our children to play and we want
them to be happy, and above all we must have
wholesome, happy family life.”—Mayor LaGnardia.

“O wise humanity, terribly wise humanity! Of
thee I sing. How inscrutable is the civilization
where men toil and work and worry their hair
gray to get a living and forget to play.”——Lin
Yntang.

“It is the stuff of our manhood and womanhood
that makes America great, not our stainless steel

jewelry. Give us that stuff. That is your job.”—
Roy Helton.

“W'e will transmit this city, not only not less,

but greater, better, and more beautiful than it was
transmittedto us.”-——Athenian Oath.

302

“One can spend years studying the many forms
of art by which are preserved what eyes have seen
long after the eyes themselves are dust. And one
can be busy all one’s clays trying to turn the details
of one’s own life to beauty.”-——Marjorie Barstow
Greenbie in The Arts of Leisure.

“America is different. We must remember this;
and we must emphasize it. We can live and play
together; and the more we play together, the more
we shall understand each other and be willing to
cooperate for national unity.”———Dr. J antes M . Yard.

“In the conduct of general education let us not
lose sight of the fact that democracy needs leader-
ship just as vitally as it needs an intelligent citi-
zenship.”——Stassen.

“N o citizen can play an efficient part in the self-
government of his country unless the part he so
plays reflects a control acquired over himself.”—
Dr. L. P. Jaclcs in Constructive Citizenship.

“Artists are the people whose influence deter-
mines what form the spiritual and physical crea-
tion of our civilization will take. . . . Every phase
of our daily living is somehow touched, and often
determined, by artists’ activities as well as by
utilitarian needs.”——-From Related Arts Service.

“What of education and recreation? Upon the
intelligent and efficient functioning of this branch
of municipal service depends the calibre of the
next generation and the future of our city, state,
and nation.”——FromAnnnal Report, Madison, Wis.

“When will man understand and love this in-
finite beauty—our sacred heritage? We who do
understand and believe in the great and spiritual
values of Primitive America have a great task to
perform.”———Jens Jensen.

“The educated man is a man with certain subtle
spiritual qualities, which make him calm in adver-
sity, happy when alone, just in his dealings, rational
and sane in the fullest meaning of that word in all
the affairs of life.”-—Ramsay MacDonald.

“When music and courtesy are better under—

stood and appreciated there will be no war.”—
Confucius.

RECREATION

Last Saturday

ITTING at the Information

Desk on Saturday was in-

deed an adventure. The
front door was opened at 9
o’clock, and in they came.
Some brought their lunches
and planned to make a day of
it. The games were put out and
a dozen children were busy at once. At 11 they
were starting to get in line for the moving pictures.
Now that we have no fuel oil for the auditorium we
show the pictures in the classroom. While waiting,
the tinkly music box from Switzerland was wound,
and everyone listened to music that many had
never heard before. It was quite appropriate to
have the big music box wound, for all the cases
in the hall are filled with musical instruments—

The Children's Museum started more
than twenty-five years ago in one
room of an old houseI with a single
case of butterflies
The museum buildings now consist of
two large up-to-date mansions with
an attractive auditorium capable of
seating five hundred children.

primitive drums, whistles, man-
dolins and flutes. This means
games with a whole new v0-
cabulary about percussion,
string, and wind instruments.

After lunch “The Museum
Quiz Kids” began to congre-
gate in the library with Miss
Kendall, where around the large table they ask
and answer questions of their own propounding.
Every child may have a turn at being quizzed.
There is an Argentine cowbell that they ring to
summon the audience. _“Cheerio,” our pet canary
in the Live Museum sang, the old tall clock
chimed frequently, and then the cowbell! It really
was a happy place.

The tiny ones hustled into their coats to go over

and minerals.

"This is the most beautifulest Museum in the world'I

 

SEPTEMBER 1945

303

304 LAST SATURDAY

to the Annex to the
story hour. It was a
dark, cold day, but a
lovely wood fire cra—
ckled over there and
about it they sat
while Miss Green
told them a whimsi—
cal story about Feb—
ruary I4, and then
each made a valen—
tine to take home.
\Vhen they returned,
many of them stop—
ped at the informa-
tion desk to display
proudly what they
had made. The older .
children saw the pictures at 3, and then played
games, at which they never seem to tire. The staff
members are very ingenious in thinking up and
planning different types of information games
which require the children to use their eyes and
read the labels for their answers. Some Scout
troops arrived, looked about, and then settled at
game playing, too.

A gentleman from Duxbury came for the loan
boxes he had reserved for his school and another
person from Newton lugged out some twenty boxes
for the Visual Aid Library in that section.

The questions one answered at that desk were
varied—would you like to hear some of them?
.“Have you seen a boy with a blue sweater?” “Is
the elephant alive?” “What can I feed my turtle?”
“\Vhich club may I join ?” “Will you keep my
carfare?” “Where can I put my coat?” “What
time is the movies?” “Did you find a mitten?”
“Where do you get those examination papers?”
“Where can I find a drink for my little brother?”
“What will the story be about ?” “Have you any
books on airplanes?” And
so it went.

One little fellow stood on
tiptoe struggling to get two
pennies into the contribu—
tion box. Another did him
one better and fished three
cents out of his pocket.

Mrs. John Cronan, the
storyteller who comes once
in a while to tell us stories

as a special treat, called to
borrow a doll. She told us

 

Courtesy The Children’s M useum, Jamaica Plain, M ass.

The Children's Museum at Jamaica'Plain.
Massachusetts. is a busy place, especially
on Saturdays when the story hour is held,
moving pictures are shown. and leaders of
youth organizations come with their groups
to obtain help for their programs. There
areI too, Saturday morning bird wall<s in
the springI and many other activities.

Loan extension is still another service.
The Museum has 225 loan boxes on seventy-
one different topics which may be lzept for
two weeks, by schoolsI libraries._ churches,
and other organizations requesting‘fthem.

she overheard a little
\ girl from the Che-
verus School say to
her companion, “This
is the most beautiful-
est Museum in the
world.”

One of the nicest
things that happened
last Saturday was
Walter coming—one
of our boys on fur-
lough. This time he
had just returned
from Cuba. \Ne do
feel pleased when the
boys come here in
their precious time.
They say, “Oh! a new exhibit,” “How good to be
home,” or “Where is Miss Dickey?” We are
amused when they tell us how perturbed they are
on visiting museums in Australia, England—all
over the world, to find that our Museum is virtu-
ally unknown!

In 1944 the William T. Hornaday Memorial
Foundation was incorporated under the laws of the
State of New York. It was established as a living
memorial to Dr. Hornaday. The purpose of the
foundation is to instill into boys and girls in the
United States a knowledge and love of the world
about them. In its first annual report, the Founda—
tion points 'with ustifiable pride to its initial work
of establishing children’s museum projects in rural
areas. They began their activities in Geneva County,
Alabama. Before the year was out Geneva County
had three children‘s museums, one of them for Ne-
gro children. Nashville, Tennessee and its environs
was the scene of the fourth and fifth museums es-
tablished. The fourth was another project for rural
children. The fifth was the
Foundation’s first city-'spon-
sored Children’s Museum
which was set- up in Nash-

ville. To a Nashville audi—

ence Chancellor O. C. Car-
michael of Vanderbilt Uni-
versity said, “Children’s Mu—
seums will supply things that
we have not had in our edu—
cational_system before, and
are worthy of very genuine
and enthusiastic support.”

RECREATION

One Man's Meat

0U KNOW how they are. You

hardly get your rubbers off

before they say, “Now, someone goes out of
the room,” and you are ushered into a closet while
they think of a vegetable or an adage. They are
the players of parlor games. When two or more
are gathered together you may as well make up
your mind to a lot of frantic endeavor.

All on your account, the atmOSphere is disagree—
able right at the start. You have to have the game
. explained. The others, all born public speakers,
want to tell you how it goes. They lecture you,
simultaneously and with frightening firmness.
Since it is something brand new and not to be
discovered by Elsa Maxwell for months, they
bicker among themselves about the rules. Finally,
in utter confusion, you say
you understand.

The chances are that the
motif is cultural. With a
college degree and subsequent
reading, you feel that you are
reasonably well educated. But
when someone sits back and
complacently announces that
he begins with “b” your mind
is suddenly wiped bare. You
can think of nobody whose
name ever began with a “b.”
The rest mutter impatiently,
“Come on! Everybody knows
that!” while you mentally scuttle around and won-
der how you got through school. Finally you do
think of a “b” which is barred because of its
obscurity (implying that you simply made it up) or
is shrieked by an old hand before you can Open
your mouth or turns out to be a peninsula and
not a person.

Or perhaps the game revolves around some
talent, some offshoot of the 'Muses. You won’t
have felt as silly since the church pageant. You
are no super-dilettante; you are never even chosen
for a part in a Junior League skit; you have no
talent except a phenomenal capacity for sitting in
one position. Yet you are expected to get up and
act, impersonating King Lear or tapioca. With
no artistic ability whatsoever, you must draw
“I’m a ding-dong daddy.” You singnrounds and

SEPTEMBER 1945

By MARY BROWN SHERER

"What's one man's meat is another's
poison!" Strange as it may seem. there
are people in this world who are defi-
nitely allergic to the processes and
methods of social recreation. The pages
of RECREATION. in common with all other
"reputable" publications are always open
to the views of "The Opposition,‘' and it is
in line with this policy thatwe have asked
for and received permission from The
Observer, published by the Junior League
of New York City. to reprint the accom-
panying article which appeared under
the title "Give Up?" in January I945

write doggerel, all according to
rule, only to be accused of giv-
ing it away by a sloppy performance.

Some time during the evening game addicts get
athletic. Just as you maneuver yourself off the
Louis Quinze and onto the Lawson they bring out
a broom and insist that you tie yourself in a half
hitch around the handle. You rush in and out,
behaving in the manner of some specified adverb
and try to make a milk bottle do things a milk
bottle was never built for.

While you rest your joints the rest earnestly till
spaces on pieces of paper. After they have been
filled and argued over (every addict dearly loves
this feature), there are some special stunts. These
are the gags, interspersed through the serious
routine. The object is to get
the neophyte into as undigni-
fied a position as possible,
preferably under the rug.
You, in your new suit, c0-
operate, all innocence, and
find yourself excavating with
your teeth in two cups of
Hour. After the others have
had their laugh, everyone is
sufficiently relaxed to go back
to the heavier program, back
to the goings-out-of—the-rbom.

It’s a dreary business, out
of the room. You stand in the
hall, rather embarrassed with your own company.
You study your face in the mirror, the calling cards
on the tray (people you never heard of—depress-
ing), the wattage of the light bulbs. You peel the
candles of their drippings. You listen to them
inside, a gay little clique, muttering and whoop—
ing. When you are finally called back, amid much
laughter, you find that the salted nuts are gone,
every comfortable seat is sat on, and there is
nothing for you but to lean against a doorway
and guess.

One evening, perhaps, you decide to refuse to
go out of the room. In an optimistic moment you
think that such a stand may put _a blight on the
whole game trend. So you sit pat in your corner
with a firm “no” only to discover that.everyone

(Continued on page 325)

305

Planning vs. Postwar Planning

HE PRESENT interest in

municipal postwar plan—

ning stems from an
honest concern of our peo—
ple to keep faith with the
men who have served and
died for their country. In
this article I do not intend
to detract from the import-
ance of this worthy task.
Rather I wish to propose a
concept of planning that
will be in keeping with the
American way of life and
one which, I, as an ex—ser-
viceman of World War II,
believe will appeal to re—
turning veterans.

It is evident that too many municipal planners
are linking postwar plans with another Govern-
ment Works Program. Aside from the dangers to
our national economy, such “defeatist” planning
that pre-supposes leaning on Uncle Sam weakens
the American moral fibre and is obviously un-
sound. Furthermore, the prospects of relief proj-
ects cannot help but be detrimental to military
morale. Certainly men who are fighting our fight
do not want to return to a life of dependence.
Abotre all they want independence. It becomes
the responsibility of communities throughout our
country to do the kind of-planning that will pro-
vide opportunities for permanent employment. In
our economy individuals cannot be independent on
the one hand, and communities dependent on the
other. i

Everly's article.

Postwar planning is one of those all-inclusive
“do it tomorrow” phrases that has succeeded in
capturing the fancy of the American public. It is
a “red herring” that has almost convinced the pub-
lic that municipal planning is an innovation, an
offspring of war.

Certainly those of us engaged in community
planning know that it is a continuous process. We
recognize that sound planning requires long term
forecasts. The war had little to do with planning
for the future. The successful municipal operator
has always been projecting plans, five, ten, twelve,
and even twenty-five years into the future. To

306

By ROBERT E. EVERLY

Superintendent
Glencoe, Illinois, Park District

Much is being written these days about
postwar planning. What should be done
after the war to meet the community needs
of returning servicemen and of civilians is
the subject of many conferences.

In this article Mr. Everly presents a chal-
lenging point of view. There are, no doubt,
park, recreation, and other public officials
who will not be in complete agreement with
all the statements made. RECREATION will
be glad to receive comments on Mr.

 

constrict the planncr’s mind
. to a rigid set of circum—
stances covering a short
span of time limits his vision,
thereby nullifying his plan-
ning ability.
It has been said that the
period following the termi-
nation of the present war
will present catastrophic
problems of readjustment,
relocation, and rehabilita-
tion. These problems differ
only in scope from issues
that have confronted plan-
ners during the past several
decades. Community plan-
ning has always been con-
tingent upon a host of problems that include tax
incomes, bonding capacities, labor shortages or
surpluses, population trends, educational and rec-
reational needs, and the scarcities or abundances
{of materials. Sound planning is made in consider-
ation of “Acts of God” and “weaknesses of man,”
necessitating only the shifting of emphasis on one
or another of the aforementioned problems.

While endless talk and writings have been given
to postwar planning, too little has been accom—
plished in completed plans. The tendency seems to
be to await the end of hostilities, although the
postwar period is already here for millions of our
citizens, including men released from the services
and war workers shifted to civilian pursuits.

To balance this criticism of postwar planning,
the following proposals are presented for consid-

eration :

(1) Cast off the inhibitions of a relatively short post-
war period. Prepare long-range master plans for
each community based on a survey of local require-
ments, after which detailed plans should be com-
pleted as rapidly as possible.

(2) Let no American community plan any development
that it finds unable to construct, and maintain by
its own efforts with its own funds. Those com-
munities that developed projects with government
aid that were beyond their capacity to maintain
will add an “amen” to the underscoring.

(3) Municipalities should avoid, as far as possible,
‘huge capital deveIOpments until postwar civilian

(' Continued on page 334)
RECREATION

They Needed Something More.

 

EAVER COUNTY’S war housing project, Van

Buren Homes, at Vanport, Pennsylvania,

was Opened to its first twenty-five residents in _
October 1943. Since then its full 400 units (as
well as 125 in near-by Tamaqui Village) have been
taken over by employees of Curtiss-W’right and
other county industries. The people who had come

to live in these units had
doubled the population of
Vanport. They had a place
to lay their heads—com-
fortable, charming as to
physical surroundings, ade—
quate to the needs of their
families. But they needed
something more than the
satisfaction of their mini-
mum physical needs if
they were to live happily
in their new environment.
They needed civic, social,
and recreation activities

SEPTEMBER 1945

I

The Beaver County' PennsylvaniaI Housing
Authority responsible for the operation of II
federally-owned housing proiects and 5 locally
financed communitiesl claims the distinction
of having the only organization set-up of all-
women proiect managers existing among the
Housing Authorities in the country. The duties
of' these managers are many and varied. They
are responsible for huge rental collections (ap-
proximately a million dollars yearly). and for
the accompanying bookkeeping; for making
government reports: for helping families and
individuals adiust themselves to local condi-
tions. and for the welfare and health of fami-
lies and the use of the facilities offered.

combined in a diversified community program.

Obviously, overcrowded Vanport could not—
even with the best will in the world—provide all
that they needed and wanted for all of them. Con-
sequently they did what pe0ple of the United
States have been doing since the war began all over
the world—in Philippine concentration camps, in

German prisons, in war
centers whose ways were
alien to the familiar pat-
terns of a lifetime. They
set about to build for them-
selves a new community
laid out on old lines. They
elected from among them-
selves a Residents’ Coun—
cil to control the affairs of
the community. They set
up committees to work
with the Council on gov-
ernment and planning and
programming for their

307

308 THEY NEEDED SOMETHING MORE

small world. They worked
closely with Vanport citizens
to coordinate all their plans
with existing programs and
facilities where these were
available. In a few months a
program was going full steam
ahead.

An interdenominational
Sunday School is attended each Sunday morning
by an average of a hundred children and adults.
Enthusiastic members of the Van Buren Woman’s
Club hold monthly meetings, plan and sponsor
various entertainments, maintain a library which
is of service to those who want reference material
or pleasure reading. At the club’s meetings the
attendance averages about fifty women.

A most interesting feature of the youth program
is the proposed boys’ clubhouse to be used by
school age boys from the whole town. A commit—
tee of fathers and boys’ leaders was formed and an
available building has been located. The plans for
the club include renovation of the building which
will be used for a well-rounded and supervised
schedule of boys’ activities.

A village newspaper is published weekly. The
publication, called The Villager, is informally writ-
ten and carries into each home the schedule of
events, organizations, plans for the future, and per-
sonal notes. The paper’s “staff” gathers several
evenings each week to collect, write, and edit the
news articles, and print the news sheet on a small
mimeograph machine.

Several hundred children have been entertained
at recent parties. A weekly movie program is of-
fered to the residents. Teen-age groups are spon-
sored and supervised by the Vanport Parent-
Teachers Association. A Cub Pack, with the
Vanport Fire Department as the sponsoring organ-
ization, is the latest addition to the schedule of
activities. A girls’ club is being organized, the
membership to include girls of high school age.
A school of dance is a weekly feature with classes
for all ages,

Meetings and activities are held in a large com-
munity building located in the center of the village.
The building is equipped with a large meeting hall,
two small meeting rooms and a kitchen.

In the housing development at Brunswick,
Georgia, Resident Clubs planned and sponsored a
wide range of recreation activities and social and

religious interests in 1944. The four'clubs', during"

The four Resident Clubs at the Bruns-
wick, Georgia, Housing Proiect all have
nautical names appropriate to a commu-
nity whose residents build ships: Port
Hole, Crow's Nest, Ship-a-Shore, and
Gang-Plank. And they believe, do these
ship builders. that "Better ships are

built when better fun is had. So—hit
the deck—it’s time for fun again!"

the past year raised approxi-
mately $30,000 to maintain
their program. Each club had
committees on Hospitality,
Red Cross, and Religious Ac-
tivities, and all were free to
call on the Project Service
Staff for assistance in any
phase of the program.

Three of the housing units maintained teen-age
clubs under such titles as “Chatta-Box,” “Happy-
Go-Lucky,” “All-American,” "Our 6-8 Club,”
“Fun Club,” “Pirates Club,” “Joy Club,” “Little
Folks Club,” and the “Junior Port Hole Club.”
The youth groups formed their own committees
and conducted their activities with the help of
hostesses from the Resident Clubs and play lead-
ers from the city’s Recreation Department. The
Recreation Department also supplied leadership

for the playgrounds established at the housing
projects.

The combined attendance at the community ac-
tivities held in the four recreation buildings was

396,053. The program of activities as listed in the
annual report for 1944 was as follows:

Hi-Lights from 1944’s Time Table

Dances—Popular and War Bond Drives
Square Salvage Drives

Quiz Program Clean—Up Drives

Bingo Parties Victory Garden Contests

Community Sings C.A.P. Meetings

Movies Blueprint Classes

Talent Shows S pend-the—Day Parties

Boy Scouts Grand Ole Opry

Girl Scouts Community Christmas Tree

Teen-Age Clubs Ping-Pong

Game Nights Checkers

Share-a-Ride
Sewing Rooms

Holiday Parties
Open House—Informal

Dancing Benefit Dances—Red Cross
Dancing Classes Infantile Paralysis
First Aid Classes Disabled Veterans

Sunday Schools
Worship Services

Nutrition Classes
Home Nursing Classes

Surgical Dressing Work Vespers
Rooms Hymn Sings
The Crew’s Log Daily Vacation Bible Schools
Libraries Swing Shift Activities:
Pool Room Activities Dances—Popular and
Club Room Activities Square
Immunization Clinics ' Grand Ole Opry

Chicken Suppers
Supper-Dances
Talent Shows

Fish Suppers

Equipment Clinics
Preschool Clinics
Basketball Games
Pageants 7

RECREATION

Things Seen

PLAYGROUND hobby
A which has been ex—

tremely interesting
to the director is collect-
ing pictures which are ex-
hibited on bulletin boards
constructed for this pur-
pose. The boards, 3’ x 4’,
are made. of solotex framed r
with wood which is painted green.

There are more than twenty-six hundred pic-
tures in this collection, pictures of seasonal and
t0pical interest. There are pictures of beautiful
scenes in general, spring, summer, autumn, and
winter scenes, night, children’s and adults’ winter
sports, baseball, football, swimming, miscellaneous
sports and games, babies, older children, young
men and women, older men and women, other
nationalities, animals, flowers, ships, wind and
kites, rain, music, school, circus, and gardening;
pictures for New Year’s Day, Lincoln’s Birthday,

St. Patrick’s Day, April First, Easter, May Day,

By PEARL H. WELCH

Play Director, Bixby Park
Long Beach, California

"Because things seen are mightier

than things heard. . . ."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson

Mothers’ Day, Memorial
Day, Flag Day, Fathers’
Day, the Fourth of July,
Halloween, Thanksgiving,
and Christmas, including
Madonnas, Santa Claus,
trees,Christmas music, and
presents.

These pictures are gath-
ered from magazine covers, illustrations and adver-
tising, from papers, calendars, and a variety of
other sources. No magazines are safe from this
director’s acquisitive eyel

Most of the pictures are carefully mounted on
colored paper which harmonizes with them; they
are stored in labeled folders in large boxes and dis-
played on bulletin boards throughout the year. The
light weight, portable boards are taken into the
playground office at night. Not onlyehas the director
had pleasure in these pictures, but people coming
to the Bixby Park playground have greatly enjoyed
these exhibits which are changed frequently.

 

SEPTEMBER 1945

What Americans Were Reading in 1944

HE AVERAGE American in
T 1944 wanted to read about

his Own personal prob-
lems first and about the war
and the state of the world sec-
ond, according to response to
the annual questionnaire on
reading trends sent by the
American Library Association
to public libraries in a cross
section of American towns
and cities. The general inter-
est in religion and human re-
lations which took a sharp
swing upward at the begin-
ning of the war has not slack-
ened, although reading about the war and war
heroes, highest" in national interest in 1943, has
dropped slightly in 1944. In compiling data from
all parts of the country, the Association notes that
the slackening of interest in war reading is most
noticeable on the two coasts, where it was most
intense in 1943, while many communities in the
Middle West report steady and sometimes increas-
ing demand for war books.

\Vhat one librarian in Cincinnati termed the
“interest in self” is evident in the steady popularity
of books on hobbies, farming, small independent
businesses, handcrafts, and the arts, all of them
lonewolf enterprises.

The most obvious change in reading interests
during the year was the sudden, nation-wide drop
in technical reading. In some cities the slump in
demand for technical books amounted to as much
as forty per cent. Many libraries attributed this
condition to the gradual stabilizing of war indus-
try. The hundreds of thousands of industrial work-
ers who were fitting themselves for war jobs are
now trained, and in the meantime industry has
developed its own training methods. On the other
hand, technical research in libraries continues to
be steady and has received great impetus from post-
war prospects for expansion.

On the whole, more people were reading in 1944
than in other war years. For the first time since
the United States began to prepare for war, public
libraries report that the steady dr0p in the circu-

lation of books has been halted. According to the _

310

By OLGA M. PETERSON
Chief. Public Relations Office

American Library Association

 

In preparing this Annual Analysis of
National Reading Trends. a questionnaire
was sent to all public libraries in com-
munities over 100.000 p0pu|ationl and to
a representative cross section in smaller
communities and in rural areas.
results of the survey. published in the
February I945 issue of the American Li-
brary Association Bulletin, are based
on a return of seventy-one per cent.

 

general opinion of librarians
reporting, the bottom of the
curve was reached in 1943,
and libraries can now expect
a period of steadily rising
demand for home reading.
The use of libraries for refer-
ence and information has i
never dropped and is still in-
The creasing.

Increased reading is due to
many factors. Population
shifts are beginning to settle.
The layoff in several indus-
tries has begun. Men and
women who devoted time to
civilian defense and volunteer war work are now
able to fit theSe activities into the routine of their
daily lives. without the sacrifice of other interests.
People who were at first too distracted by war‘ to
read are now finding in war an incentive to read.
Mothers with husbands away from home are read-
ing to their children because both are lonely. Rela—
tives of men in service are reading about strange
lands where our forces are stationed. High school
boys have realized that education counts in the
armed services and are reading to prepare them-
selves for rapid promotion. The war is responsible
for interests in new world markets, social services,
foreign languages, politics, as well as in new ways
to fix the refrigerator and entertain the baby.

Reading on Postwar

Librarians report that while the general public
is only superficially interested in postwar planning
and forecasts, there is a considerable demand in
some areas from businessmen, club members, com-
munity planners, and students. There is a great
deal of interest in postwar building of all kinds—
homes, schools, public buildings. Research work-
ers are investigating new chemicals, new technical
fields, and new areas for small business. The Enoch
Pratt Free Library, Baltimore, sums up the wide—
spread impression that “international planning is
of first interest to general readers, but the domestic
aspects' of planning are the concern of most re-
search workers and businessmen.” Over and over

(Continued on none 319)

RECREATION

Community Swing

a swank night club, and a Harry

James tune to make a night of
dancing complete for the'thousands of Americans
who are finding fun and relaxation in a revival of
the dances their grandfathers and grandmothers
found equally enjoyable. And it doesn’t take a
barn, professional caller, and old-time fiddler to do
square dancing, either. A large enough room, a
phonograph and records, and four interested
couples are the only requirements.

“Square dancing is just for hillbillies !” you may
say, looking contemptuously down your nose. But
would you include university professors, lawyers,
merchants, and a state senator in the “hillbilly”
classification? You’d have to if you apply that tag
to square dancers, for it is just such people who
form the nucleus of one outstanding folk dance
group in Madison, Wisconsin, as enthusiastic a
set of dancers as may be found anywhere.

Interest was aroused in Madison about four
years ago, after Mrs. Fred Kaeser, director of a
dance studio in her home, returned from a summer
course in square dancing given by Lloyd Shaw in
Colorado Springs. Here, through the research of
Mr. Shaw, revival of the western type of square
dancing began. In 1936 a group of his dancers
put on their demonstration for the oplay festival at
Central City, Colorado, and the dances caught on
immediately.

Some time before interest in the western type of
dances' was revived, however, a
similar renewal of interest had
taken place in the folk dances of
the east. Elizabeth Burchenal was
one of the leaders in this move—
ment, advocating the slower, more
formal dances of New England,
such as the quadrille, round
dances, and longways dances. Out
of this revival grew the American
Square Dance group, with head-
quarters in New York. These
dances are also being promoted

by Henry Ford in his Dearborn
village.

In the midwest the tides of
these two great revivals have met

IT DOESN’T TAKE a formal dress,

SEPTEMBER 1945

By PHYLISS ASHMUN
Madison. Wisconsin

———the formal style of the east and
the strenuous dances of the west.
In this combination is the secret to
successful community recreation in folk dancing,
for it lends variety without being a program too
strenuous for the “tenderfoot.”

After taking Lloyd Shaw’s course, Mrs. Kaeser
was a confirmed square dancer. Together with a
group of neighbors she organized a regular square
dance circle, which met at various homes, dancing
to piano music. No experienced caller was avail-
able, so members of the group did their own,
learning calls from directions in Shaw’s book.

From the nucleus of Mrs. Kaeser’s enthusiasts,
the idea spread to others throughout the city. One
group was built around an assistant professor in
the English department at the University of Wis-
consin and his wife. This group used piano music.
\Vhen war came the original group broke up, but
eight couples remaining bought sets of square
dance records and continued going from home to
home to dance and spend a social evening.

To add a genuine atmosphere to the dances, the
women made themselves long peasant dresses and
the men wore plaid shirts and overalls each time
they danced. At the end of the year the dancing
season was topped off with an old-fashioned box
social.

The recreation basement of the Congregational
Church was offered the dancers as a cooler place

"Bouncing in"

 

311

312 COMMUNITY SWING

in which to carry on square dancing during the
summer. The group grew amazingly as enthusi-
asts spread the word. These church dances are
now held regularly once a month the year around
with an open group of seventy or eighty. A small
charge is made, which enables a volunteer commit-
tee to serve punch and buy new records. All ar-
rangements are taken care of entirely by volunteer
committees, with no particular Organization.

At the same time as Mrs. Kaeser took the course
under Lloyd Shaw, a member of the University of
Wisconsin physical education department was en-
rolled. The following year that department pre-
sented a demonstration of square dancing in con-
junction with a university program given by John
Jacobs Niles, folk singer. Folk dancing is now a
part of the curriculum of the women’s physical
education department.

In the meantime other groups have grown up
in Madison, as in other cities all over the country.
The American Youth Hostel movement, the Y.M.
C.A., and the Y.W.C.A. are only a few of the
organizations including square dancing in their
programs. The Memorial Union at the University
of \Visconsin is another center for square dancing.
Each Sunday evening sees some ten or twelve
squares of co-eds, men, and soldiers and sailors
stationed near the campus taking part in the folk
games. Here there is usually piano music and
sometimes fiddlers or records played over the pub-
lic address system. A member of the physical
education department does the calling and often
there are demonstrations by experienced dance
groups. Coke is served as a cooler during inter—
missions.

A number of the student churches at the Uni-
versity have also adopted square dancing as a
part of their recreational programs. Records and
amateur callers are the order of the day, and a
continual stream of newcomers keeps the dances
simple enough for beginners.

In groups like these, fun is the first considera-
tion. The noble objective of keeping alive old
American dances may be an incidental result, but
for true enjoyment they should not be danced as
“museum pieces.”

Communities made up completely of beginners
need have no fear of taking on square dancing as a
recreation project, for simple steps can be easily
and quickly learned. If a community is fortunate
enough to have an experienced caller or leader, for
the first time at least, it is off to a flying start. It
is better if this person is not too professional in

his approach, for he must combine the abilities of a
leader and a teacher in putting across the direc-
tions in order to make it enjoyable for all.

If no one in the group has ever done any square
dancing before, one of the best methods is to dance
to-records with calls on them. For beginners, the
Victor album by \Noody Woodhull is excellent
because its dances are repetitive and accompanying
explanations clear. Decca puts out another good
album of quadrilles and an album called by Ed
Durlacher. Another method is to dance to piano
or fiddle music, with calls by a member of the
group. Calls and directions can be picked up with
the aid of Lloyd Shaw’s book, “Cowboy Dances,”
or other books of folk dances.

For the experienced group a combination of the
four basic types of American folk dances provides
the most interesting and varied evening of dancing.
All of them are modifications of older European
dances: the quadrille, danced in square form, but
slower and more formal, stemming from European
court dances; the longways dances, the Virginia
reel, money musk, and others of old English back-
ground; the round dances, mainly schottisches and
polkas; and the cowboy square dances, done in
square form with a set pattern repeated by each
couple.

One New York radio station presented an hour’s
program of square dancing each Saturday night
for a thirteen-week period. Calls and explanations
were given by Ed Durlacher and leaflets of calls
and descriptions of the dances were sent out in
advance to persons following the dances in their
own homes.

The inexhaustible number of new dances and
variations of old patterns is one of the main at-
tractions of square dancing. For each new piece
of music there is a different dance, and these may
be varied further by the caller’s own versions of
them. Because there is such a wide variety for the
experienced square dancers, groups should be as
homogeneous as possible, so that beginners will
not keep experienced dancers from advancing to
new forms.

While wartime has speeded the development of
square dancing as community recreation, the post-
war period will probably not see its decline, for its
appeal goes deeper than merely a substitute for
other activities. The war has had a tendency to
increase community activities of all types, but
square dancing is particularly well-adapted to com-
munity recreation and a conscious effort has been

( C ontinued on gage 335)

RECREATION

Use Your Building Program

Mr. CreightonI an architect associated with
the firm of Arthur Hopkins and Associates,
New York City, makes a plea for community
participation in the planning of school build-
ings in this article, reprinted from the Novem-
ber. I944, issue of The Nation’s Schools.

schools, as they must be, their planning must be

made as far as possible a community enterprise.
This does not mean that every man’s neighbor has
to be leaning over the conference table when the
school building committee and the architect discuss
the program. It does mean that step by step the
major decisions should be explained and publi-
cized. Local civic organizations should know what
is going on and become excited about the pros-
pects. Local papers should carry stories of the
various planning stages.

If there is a citizens’ committee meeting to dis-
cuss the question of juvenile delinquency, it should
know what recreational activities are receiving con-
sideration in the school planning. If the local
churches sponsor young people’s discussion groups,
they will be interested in talking about the voca-
tional training aspects of the proposed school. The
Mothers’ Club and the W'omen’s Club will be con-
cerned with the provisions for health care of pupils
and the eating arrangements at school.

Does this sound like complicating the planning
of the school? Do you feel that there is sufficient
difficulty getting agreement among the members
of the building committee, without dragging in the
whole neighborhood? Well, suppose it does result
in some delays. Suppose it does stir up some con—
troversies and a little “viewing with alarm.” In the
end, after the difficulties have been explained and
ironed out, there will be an interested, compre-
hending, even excited citizenry ready to make full
use of the new school facilities. Certainly that is
better than- meeting the glassy stare of the public
when the doors are opened for the first time.

IF OUR NEW SCHOOLS are going to be conmumity

Features of a Modern Classroom

As an illustration of the sort of facility which
can be discussed with the community, let us con-
sider, first, the classroom itself. Most of us are
agreed that the forbidding classroom,designed for

SEPTEMBER 1945

To Build Friends

By THOMAS CREIGHTON

the formal andsparrot-like recital of lessons re-
luctantly prepared, is not the room we want to
plan. we want’to construct the modern classroom
as a laboratory, with the work area, class library
and movable furniture freely arranged.

The teacher’s desk will be treated as a piece of
casual furniture. Audio-visual instruction mediums,
even television, must be planned for; the pro-
jector will be standard equipment. Gay color will
enliven the dreariness which we associate with
old-fashioned buildings. Exhibit cases, inter-
changeable pictures and charts will be added
features of interest. Terrestrial and celestial globes
will supplant Mercator’s projection with the 25,000
mile poles.

Life will be brought into the classroom. Every-
thing will be designed in terms of little Willie;
everything will be planned to break down that
resistance to instruction that has been character-
istic of all little Willies through the ages. How

receptive will Willie’s ma be to allthese innova-
tions?

New School Makes Exciting-Story

Here is an exciting story about the new post-
war school to tell to the community, to the parents
and to civic leaders. If all these interested persons
know what you are planning to do for them and
their children, they should be as impatient as you
for the project to be finished. If you spring it on
them, after it is completed, as something new and
strange, they may resist. Why run that risk?

There are other examples of the facilities in the
proposed school which might well be publicized.
The auditorium, the library and the gymnasium
will be designed to stimulate adult interest in pro—
grams of learning, play, and physical culture. In
the planning of the auditorium there must be ade-
quate stage facilities and dressing rooms for dra-
matic presentations, sufiicient space to permit the

gathering of grOups .for pageants and folk dancing,

313

'L

x.

314 USE YOUR BUILDING PROGRAM TO BUILD FRIENDS

room for screens, sound equipment, toilet facilities,
cloak rooms. If the pe0ple of the community are
to view these things with favor, and as their links
to the school, instead of as careless extravagancies,
they should understand now what you are about
in planning them.

Music will play a large role in the school design.
Space must be provided for school singing, band,
and orchestra rehearsal and perhaps for instru—
ment instruction. You may be planning for a
music library, instrument storage space, rooms for
teaching the theory and appreciation of music, a
musical director’s office. Do you visualize these
provisions as a boon to adult as well as child
musical guidance? If so, you had better let the
people know what you plan for them.

Your school library will probably be centrally
located. The usual humble resting place for books
will be replaced by a working laboratory for the
English and social science departments, with their
living subjects of current events, speech, dramatics
and journalism. The library, serving as the center
of distribution for reference matter, maps, charts,
pictures, even films, will extend to all the different
school departments. You may be planning a peri-
odical room or a laboratory of'current events.
These enlarged library functions will need explain-
ing to the public which can be done during the
planning period better than after the school has
opened.

The gymnasium in the new school will be more
than a covered playground. The war draft pro-
cedure has disclosed cer-
tain flaws in the physical

 

for the relief of such conditions as workers’ fatigue
and sedentary degeneration.

Depending on its location, your school’s outdoor
playground may include not only playing fields,
but also water areas, picnic grounds and sections
for nature craft and gardens. These activities may
be coordinated with the community “green” spots,
the parks and playgrounds which planners now
realize to be a necessary part of large housing
developments. You may need field houses and
spectators’ seats. Perhaps the installation of flood-
lights will encourage community use of play-
grounds and athletic fields. Another link may be
welded between the school and the neighborhood
if this part of the planning becomes a community
enterprise or at least a matter of community inter-
est. By pointing out the benefits to the children
and their parents, the school will be seen to be
contributing more than ever to community living.

The school lunchroom will be moved up from
the basement to a place where it will receive the
maximum benefits from sunshine and fresh air and
be accessible to the outdoor playground. It will
invite complete relaxation by an informal arrange—
ment of tables and seats, by tasteful pictures and
murals. Here, then, is another community and
family service the new school will perform. Let
the school brag about it and deve10p interest among
parents in what it 'is planning to do. Let it be
known that good food will be served, that good
table manners will be inculcated, that mealtime will
become for the children a means of promoting
social intercourse and a
time of enjoyment. .

To meet the needs of an

condition of our youth. -

Physical education must
become more concerned
with the individual, seek-
ing correction and im-
provement of physical de—
fects. You will plan areas
for segregated group play,
such as basketball, base-
ball, volley ball. You will
want a swimming pool.
There should be recreation
rooms for the faculty. And
then you will be consider-
ing the school’s obligation
to the adults of the neigh-
borhood in providing fa-
cilities for the correction
of obesity and underweight,

"The professional journals have devofed a
grafifying amounf of space fo discussion of
fhe planning of posfwar schools. Educafors.
adminisfrafors. and archifecfs wifh a prOges-
sive affifude are fairly well agreed on fhe form
fhe new school planf will fake. They sfress fhe
need for audio-visual educafion spaces. in-
creased facilities for vocafional fraining. flexi-
ble planning for dual room use, closer rela’rion-
ship befween oufdoor and indoor acfivifies.
furfher emphasis on healfh care. recreafion.
adqu educafion.

"The lisf goes on and on. and as if unfolds
if adds consfanfly more evidence fo one facf.
na melyl fhaf fhe success of fhe new school pro-
gram will depend on full communii'y under-
sfanding and parficipafion. This means fhaf
John Jones and Paf Murphy and Sadie Nuss-
baum musf know whaf our school planners are
about In mosf cases fhey don'f have fhe
slighfesf idea."

 

expanded health improve-
ment program, you will
plan for a school health
center. There will be ex-
amination and treatment
rooms for the use of
doctors, dentists, nurses
and even psychologists and
psychiatrists. There will
be a consultation room, a
rest room, perhaps a sleep-
ing room for the day nurs-
ery children. The commu-
nity reaction to this part
of the new schoolhouse
may be one of distrust and
skepticism but, if you get
{ Continued on page 331)

RECREATION

\

To Serve the Community Purpose

HE MAIN TASK of the war, and
Tthe task of the peace, in broad-

est terms is to achieve a better
world, in which men can live and
work together peacefully and fruitfully. This
achievement is an individual and a world task. But
above all it is a community task. Only a com-
munity is both large enough and small enough to
assert a pattern of fruitful living which influences
deeply the individual citizen and to forge the com-
mon will to have the kind of world we want.

But so often in this cen—

By PORTER BUTTS
Director. Memorial Union
University of Wisconsin

focus of much of our own democra—

' tic community life.
These were not necessarily gov—
ernmental civic centers. It is espe-
cially instructive for us who are searching for the
thing that serves the community purpose best that
they were centers where people employed their
leisure hours.

Greek towns selected convenient sites outside
the town for sports fields, later erecting theaters
and gymnasia on the same sites. These buildings
came to serve as meeting

tury the community has been
impotent to do these things
because the community itself
has been shattered. Mass pro—
duction industry has built
great populations but deprived
the people of the communal
and creative life which human
beings need. The dispersive
influence of the automobile,
the telephone, and the radio
all have hastened the disinte-
gration of community life.
People have been separated
/ from responsibilties for the

The Wisconsin Union of the University of
Wisconsin was built as a memorial to the
men from that university who fought in
the First World War. Its program. under
the direction of Porter Butts. a portion
of whose annual report for I944 is here
reprinted. is designed to "accommodate
and encourage recreation interests of all
students." Music and art crafts. and hob-
bies. drama. motion pictures and games.
dancing and other social affairs. outings
and informal outdoor sports. forums and
discussions make up its manysided offer-
ings to the members of the university
community. Perhaps the greatest testi-
monial to the Union's success is the fact

that from 8.000 to l2.000 people used its
facilities every day during the past year.

places, even as universities,
the whole forming a social
and cultural center.

The Roman town was de—
liberately planned from the
beginning to include a rec—
reation center, with the forum
and theater, often placed at
the center of the plan.

In the medieval town all is
centered on the church and
its square. The church is the
shrine and the theater. Some-
times, as at Salzburg, the
church facade, indeed, forms

general welfare and left un—
touched by any community
purpose.

So, if the community is to play its part in the
building of a better world it must first of all be a
true community. And as a starting point it needs
to be sure there is a focus, a home, for its com-
munity life—in short, a community center.

Community Center Historically

The community center is not a new idea and its
contributions to the good life are not theoretical.
We need only to recall that it was on the acropolis
of the Greek city that men discussed and matured
their civic and ethical ideas; that the Roman forum
was the vitalizing center of the Roman republic
and later of a world empire; that in the church and
its square in the medieval town every person shared
in the pageantry and neighborliness and spiritual
dedication of the age; and that in the town meet-
ing houses our early American villages found the

SEPTEMBER 1945

the backdrop for open air
plays in the square.

Toward an Art of Living

Rarely were these centers of the town life con-
fined to one activity. They remained community
centers because they served a diversity of interests.

The seventeenth century English tavern and
eighteenth century pleasure garden also provided
comparatively fully for the free time activities of
the people who frequented them: theater, dance
hall, restaurant, music hall, concerts, the pub, and
social clubs.

In the pleasure gardens of eighteenth century
London, the same building which saw the first
performance of a Greek play or a personal appear-
ance of Mozart also served as a breakfast room,
a fashionable promenade, or the setting for a
masquerade. In the surrounding gardens popular
and cultural entertainment were successfully corn-

(Continued on. page 328)

315

Why Not Give an Art Exhibit

chawming,” said the
prosperous couple.
“When will the next one be 3’”

“I didn't know there was so much talent in the
community —-”

“Junior, study the pictures well!”

“When I get old and can’t do anything else, then
I’ll learn to paint.”

And the little old lady chimed in, “-—-—- So many
pretty things. I don’t know when I’ve been so
happy.”

We heard these comments, some amusing, some
heart-warming, but all indicative of an intense in-
terest, at the art exhibit We gave recently in Bald-
win Hills Village, a six hundred apartment com—
munity in suburban Los Angeles.

Why don’t you give an art exhibit, too? You’ll
never know how many of your neighbors are
artists or artisans by hobby until you start round-
ing up material for your exhibit. Young Mrs.
Brown, just out of college, will show you her oil
paintings proudly. Mrs. Jones will bring forth
modestly the tooled leather and ceramics that she
learned to make in night school, and old Mr.
Thwaite will offer shyly the very good “worthless
junk” that he’s been secretly painting for years in
his attic. Maybe you Will even run across an ex-
commercial artist who does.fme arts for his own
amusement, or, if you’re very lucky, a profes-
sional portraitist or landscape painter.

Your group will start by making plans and ap-
pointing committees—refreshments, publicity, col-
lectors of materials, and any others that you might
need. Plan to have all committees join in setting
up the exhibit itself.

Several weeks ahead it’s well to put a notice in
the community paper asking for exhibits, and tele-
phone everyone you know who does any art work,
asking them to help in finding still others. A week
before the show you can take a tour in person,
asking to see the material to be exhibited, helping
to make choices, and urging the exhibitors to be
ready on time.

This is the time to put your final notice in the
local paper, and in those of nearby communities.
And this is the time to make posters, preferably
kidding yourselves (with titles such as Oh, boy,

11 C HAWMING affair—really

316

By RUTH BYRNE LOCKWOOD
Los Angeles. California

pitchurs! or The Ah: Group
invites you—) and put them up
in every conceivable and in-
conceivable place. And from this time on, every
one must constitute himself a publicity agent,
stopping friends and strangers alike, enthusiasti-
cally urging attendance.

The day before the show, get everything in
readiness: sort exhibits that are brought in, and
collect those that won’t get there by themselves.
Have someone type (in large print) 3” x 5” white
cards with the name of the picture or article, and
the exhibitor’s name, and keep them in readiness.
Provide thumbtacks, nails, wire, string, hammer,
jackknife, pencils, erasers, and pins, in readiness
for hanging the pictures. We were not allowed to
display on the walls of our clubhouse so we bor-
rowed easels from friends and an accommodating
art store. You might find it desirable to make
stands or racks from discarded lumber or from
screens.

On the morning of the great day everyone will
(of course) come bright and early to work. They’d
better, or you won’t get ready by the appointed
time!

Our exhibit consisted of a row each of water—
colors and oils on opposite sides of the big club-
rooin and a display of unframed sketches and be—
ginners’ work on up-ended ping-pong tables backed
by hanging textiles at one end. (The tea table was
at the other end.) On tables in the middle we put
ceramics, sculpture, wood carvings, leather work,
and hand painted luncheon sets, accompanied by
Please do not touch signs. We placed plenty of
standing ash trays in strategic spots.

We were fortunate enough to have our refresh—
ments (tea and cookies) paid for by the Villagers
Association, but you might charge a small ex-
hibitors’ fee to cover such expenses. However,
there should be little expense if you use your heads
and beg and borrow everything.

At last the great moment will come, and if
you’re as pleasantly surprised as we were, people
will come literally Flocking in at three on the bright
Sunday afternoon, and keep on coming until six
o’clock, when you must, in desperation, lock the

doors to start tearing down the exhibit. You can
(Continued on page 327)

RECREATION

 

WORLD AT PLAY

THE P.T.A. of Oak-
land County, Michi-
gan, believes that the

family can play together as well as live under the
same roof. At one school no youngster under
fourteen may go to the P.T.A.-sponsored dances
(held twice each week) unless his parents go
along too. The dances are becoming more and
more popular with both age groups. Another well-
liked activity are cooperative family dinners. Fami-
lies gather for them at various schools, where
community singing is the special attraction.

For the Family

 

THE City of Talla-
hassee, Florida, has
launched an interest-

ing recreation program. The Superintendent of
Recreation, recently appointed, is to direct recrea-
tion at the College and will use the city, commu-
nity playgrounds and youth centeras a laboratory

SEPTEMBER 1945

Tallahassee Experiments

for her students. Thus the community will have
the benefit of the services of these students, and
they will receive valuable experience in this plan
of in—service training.

THE Los Angeles,
California, Board of
Education and the
City Housing Authority have worked out a plan
whereby school recreation personnel will work in
Housing Authority play areas. At Aliso Village
the school board has been granted the right to use
the community hall and kitchen, a large patio ad-
jacent to the Administration Building, as well as
approximately lifty small play areas. The school
board will furnish leadership for a general com-
munity recreation program. Equipment, repairs,
and maintenance will be the responsibility of the
Housing Authority.

Plans are under way for a similar program at
two other housing units.

Cooperative Planning

317

318 BARRACKS TO BATHHOUSE

They'll Want.

Diamond Shoes!
FELLOWS who learned to enjoy the game

of horseshoes in army camps and navy
bases, with Diamond Pitching Shoes, will
call for Diamond Shoes when they get home.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and
Official Horseshoe Courts
ARMY—'—

5, DIAMOND (ALK

 HORSESHOE CO.

46|0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

United Nations Programs—The Program
Services Division of USO, Inc., has issued an
attractive booklet prepared by Matthew Penn and
Harry D. Edgren which suggests a number of
programs based on customs and folk lore of our
Allies. These programs are designed to provide
interesting and varied themes for USO club pro-
grams. Valuable source material is given.

Music in the Air——The Recreation Commis-
sion of Ossining, New York, believes in the im-
portance of music to the community. Eleven years
ago the Commission inaugurated the Ossining
Music Guild. The Guild, currently under the
leadership of George B. Hubbard, formerly pro-
fessor at the Julliard School of Music, concluded
its 1944-45 season with a production of The
Chimes of Normandy.

A Negro Choral Unit gave its first annual con-
cert of Negro spirituals on May 20, 1945. The
unit is composed of two groups—sixty-four “jun-
iors” and thirty-four “seniors”-—who sing under
the leadership of Professor Furman ,F. Fordham.

Barracks to Bathhouse ‘

(Continued from page 292)
The sections were rebuilt in the shape of a cross.

The building now provides storage space and dress-

ing rooms for men and women at its two ends.
The center section contains a spacious lobby.
Here, too, will be a snack bar and refreshment
tables under windows that look towards the sea.
An open porch runs across the front of the build-
ing. Future plans call for landscaping the land
side of the building, for improving the beach, and
for installing two floats for low and high diving.

The second building was divided also into four
parts. Half of it was made into an ofiice for the
Park and Recreation Department. It housed, in
addition, the Department’s store room, shop, and
garage. Of the two remaining quarter sections one
was broken up to be used in repairing and supple-
menting the other building. The last fifty foot sec-
tion is being held in reserve against possible future
needs.

So ends the saga of the barracks building that
became a bathhouse and an office. The tale of co-
operation between the Federal government and the
city of South Portland has another chapter. South
Portland’s community center is located'in a fed-
erally-owned building which comes under the jur-
isdiction of the Housing Project. The project pro-
vides—in addition to the building—heat, light,
furniture, and some equipment. The city takes
care of the program, supervision, other supplies
and equipment. The project representative and the
department superintendent sit down together once
a week to talk over the whole set-up and iron out
any difficulties.

The center is open five afternoons a week for
children from six to thirteen years and six eve—
nings a week for older boys and girls and adults.
The program includes active and quiet games, art
and crafts, community singing, music and dancing,
dramatics and movies. The teen-age club meets
each Saturday night. Parties and festivities for
special days are highlights of the program. Boys
and girls, as well as adults, have a hand in build-
ing the program, for among the youngsters the De—
partment organized two councils. The Youth
Council is composed of seven boys and seven girls
of high school age from seven sections of the city.
The Junior Council is made up of boys and girls
from each of South Portland’s grammar schools.
Both councils meet periodically with the Superin-
tendent of Recreation and Parks to discuss the
progress and procedure of the program.

RECREATION

 

WHAT AMERICANS IVERE READING IN 1944 319

The people of South Portland, young and old,
the ofhcials of schools and other city departments,
the Council, the City Manager, the members of
the Recreation and Park Commission are all
solidly behind the recreation program. The first
eight months showed a good beginning. The sec-
ond year bids fair to be even bigger and even

better.

WhatAmericansWere Reading in I944

(Continued from page 310)

again librarians emphasize the demand for infor-“

mation on prospects for small, independent busi-
nesscs.

Publishers have done a good job of meeting
public demand for books on the postwar period,
librarians feel. Asked for the title of one out-
standing book of general interest, they voted three
to one for Sumner Welles’ Time for Decision.
Runners-up were When Johnny C omes Marching
Home by Dixon Wecter and The Veteran Comes
Back by W. W. Waller.

The veterans themselves are already showing
some concern for their future. In Newark the
library receives almost daily requests from service—
men and veterans for information on the G.I. Bill
of Rights. Smaller cities and towns report that
inquiries are only just beginning but that the pres-
ent number of interested parents and wives indi-
cates that very many demobilized servicemen will
want to take advantage of government educational
opportunities.One librarian comments that “Young
people seem to be considering the future with un-
usual forethought.” A high school student in Wis-
consin inquired at the local library to discover
whether it was to his advantage to enlist upon
graduation or wait until he was drafted. Many
men overseas are writing back to their public li-
braries for information about jobs. One soldier in
Alaska is studying for his law degree. Another in
New Guinea is preparing for a job as a railway
station agent. They write from all theaters of war;
they visit libraries in person and send their rela-
tives; and while many are interested in working
toward a college degree, most of them want to
train for vocations, such as banking, blueprinting,
frog raising, commercial fishing, surgery, and
television.

Demobilization and Rehabilitation

Libraries report intensive planning for demo—
bilization and rehabilitation. Library directors

SEPTEMBER 1945

pointed out that counseling on jobs and personal
problems will not be handled by libraries but that
related reading, which has already begun, will be
encouraged by agencies responsible for counseling.

Many librarians are concerned about the lack of
general awareness of the readjustment problems
which veterans and their families must face. Club
study groups, teachers, and clergymen are reading
about the probable difficulties ahead, but, on the
whole, families and individuals are not seeking help
from books. Librarians believe this is partly due
to the fact that books which have been published
are heavy going for the average reader. They urge
the publication of easily readable pamphlets and
novels which deal realistically with the psycho—
logical problems of veterans.

Know Your Places to Play
(Continued from page 285)

the temptation to stop and have a look. For a
week the crowds jammed the corner.

In the corner window of one of the big down-
town department stores a backdrop of crayon
drawings showed various park activities, bore the
campaign legend and slogan, “Open House Week
in all recreation centers under the direction of the
Bureau of Parks and Public Recreation, February
18-24.” Posters within easy reading distance of
the sidewalk listed the play centers which served
different sections of the city. Placards identified the
group making the live picture. The directors in
charge of the groups made frequent announce-
ments about the activities available at the centers
they represented. Sound equipment carried the
singing, or music, or conversation that went on
inside the window.

Strangely, the children taking part in the win-
dow programs were not at all self-conscious. Kin-
dergarten in two-hour periods is an important
phase of the Park Bureau’s wartime programming
in Portland. Some of these kindergarten groups
with their teachers were transported to the ,win-
dow stage for their usual “school period” morn-
ings and afternoons through the week. These little
tots were totally unconscious of an audience. New
toys, borrowed from the store’s stocks, were glee-
fully embraced, and the usual kindergarten rou-
tine of singing, rhythms, and simple craft work
held the audiences outside the windows as absorbed
and entertained as the groups inside the windows
seemed to be.

Even more entertaining were the features of

320 LET’S PLAY TOGETHER

Let's Play Together
(Continued from page 296)

ment before and return it after the program
Obtain and set up a public address system
Provide a leader for the Songfest
Help with the scoring
Arrange for newspaper coverage
Get the Red Cross to set up a First Aid Tent
Provide general supervision
Furnish color team arm bands
Each participating community arranged its own
-  'color teams, eight teams of equal ability from the
i ‘b  H I.  c  I P M E boys and from the girls in each grade. Each com-
munity contributed $2.00 to buy ice cream which

A    would be distributed “for free” to the boys and
' "' H E  1 girls taking part in the activities. Each child would

. _ bring his own box lunch and drinks.

  
    

     
   
   
 
  

 

4.1,, Top Value, modern

. The Pro ram
. design, stylish, weor- g

The day dawned clear and hot. By IO A.M. all

i" reSiSling- A" 9"er - - ' the children were on hand, seated in the bleachers,
° ROM/“rigs masferfu' and wearing appropriate arm bands. The organi-

  

.-  workmanship! ‘

Q
~

2 MANUFACTURING BO.
 51 tools - MISSOURI

. f, - .
“ .915 to D; W

the Saturday revue. Two attractive youngsters
demonstrated the “How to Swim” talk given by
their instructor—supported by benches instead of
water. Other demonstrations in explanation of
talks by the directors in charge were on “The Art
of Self Defense,” “Physical Fitness,” “Dancing,”
“Archery,” “Games,” “Arts and Crafts.” A grand
finale was given the day’s and the week’s window
show in a presentation of the Park Bureau’s cara-
van vaudeville, a pot-pourri of dancing, singing,
acrobatics, baton twirling, and other stunts.

The store officials denied that the week’s com—
ings and goings of different groups of children and
play directors was a “headache.” That helped ease
the group conscience of the Park Bureau staff! It
is to be hoped the store employees and officials who
gave gracious and frequent cooperation through—
out the campaign week are somewhat repaid by a
smug feeling of satisfaction shared by members of
the. Park Bureau and Junior Chamber of Com-
merce committees, that they have had part in a
program that most certainly may come under the
heading of a fine public service!

  

zation chairman had posted each of his assistants,
had given final instructions, answered last minute
questions. Promptly at 10 the program started and
proceeded in order to its appointed end as follows:

Salute to the Flag; The Star-Spangled Banner;

welcome and announcements

Rotating athletic contests and relays between

color teams

Lunch

Play day Songfest

Softball—four games for boys and four games

for girls

Announcement of scores for the whole play day

Swimming _

The day went off without a hitch or an accident.
It was a never-to—be—forgotten sight—500 boys and
girls participating at different spots on the held,
each group at a different activity. As each group
finished an activity its members sat down upon the
playheld waiting and eager to go on to the next
activity. The waiting period was never over three
minutes. On signal all groups rotated counter—
clockwise fashion to a new experience in the day’s
recreation.

Looking Backward—and Forward
The children had a happy day. They are eager
for a 1945 play day. Parents are still talking about
the occasion. Directors were amazed to see the
program really running itself—amazed that they
had as much fun as the youngsters. There had
been work,.yes; organization, yes; planning, yes;

RECREATION

“I’m playing tennis
every day and

H

- beginning tojieel swe

Where is the new Wilson tennis racket
you’d like to have? Chances are it’s
right where this illustration suggests
—-helping some swell kid to get back
on an even keel.

That is where most of the new Wilson
rackets are going these days; to the
great Athletic Program that is helping
the boys who are still in Europe and

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT
321

SEPTEMBER 1945

 

_ --_.I h"3 "K‘_, afif-drx -‘

the South Paciiic to keep {it and occu-
pied. Also to rest camps, convalescent
hospitals and rehabilitation centers.

So keep your present racket in good

' condition. Have it restrung with line

Wilson gut. Keep it in a press-and in a
cover. As materials and labor become
available in quantity there will be
plenty of line new Wilson Tennis
Rackets for all. Wilson Sporting

Goods Co., Chicago, New York and
other leading cities.

1% 1k 1%

MEMBER: The Athletic Institute, a non-profit
organization dedicated to the advancement of
national physical fitness.

* * *

Let's all boost the “War Memorials That Live”
campaign to commemorate our war heroes.

322 CHORAL ART: DEMOCRACY IN MUSIC

worry, yes, but “the proof of the pie is in the
eating” and the Ridgewood Inter-community Play
Day was a swell pie.

Choral Ari: Democracy in Music

(Continued from page 288)
nity chorus. .In the first place, it would have a lot

of pe0ple participating. It would have some ac-
tivity to offer everyone who was interested in sing-
ing, whatever the level of his development or the
focus of his interest. It would offer that to all
ages, races, and religions. It would be a dozen
choruses within one. It would have a madrigal
society, a pOpular-song “scat” group, a “Bach
Society,” a folk-song and ballad-singers’ group, a
sacred choir, a men’s glee club, a women’s chorus,
a beginners’ choir, a “professionals’” choir. It
would have a lot of people— hundreds.

Discovery, Performance
In the second place, a community chorus would
take upon itself the discovery and performance of
music indigenous to its locale and its nation. It
would explore the folk music of its area and see
that much music was made available to other
choruses and other communities. It would encour—
age local composing talent by performance of new
works and by commissioning of worthy musicians.
It would be very much concerned with America’s
musical heritage, and people would know about it.
In the third place there would be a lot of public
performances, because that would be some measure
of the contribution of the chorus to the community.
It would appear with bands, orchestras, and dance
groups. It would appear at rallies, benefits, com-
munity services, and its own regular concert series.

It would exist to serve, not to inbreed.

Educational Program

In the fourth place, it would have a solid educa-
tional program for its members. It would have
classes in the fundamentals of musicianship: sight
reading, theory, history, and aesthetics. While
choirs may be built of amateurs, there is no reason
for them to be or remain ignorant amateurs. Peo-
ple have a right to know how.

Which leads into a rather homely fifth, and
finally, to the effect that excellence of performance
should mark the program of a community chorus.
That sounds pretty obvious, and maybe I ought to
cloud the issue a bit. What I mean is that the
payoff in music is the performance, and God loves
a winner (page the Parable of the Talents). Music
is a hard master, and good music won’t stand half-

way or phoney performance. Hundreds of people

and dozens of appearances will fold up fast unless
they deliver. That’s the fifth. The final thing is
that performances can be dull as well as bad. There
is little excuse for the latter and none for the
former. After the first year there is no excuse for
either. The great sin in choral singing is to sing
without spirit. Song is drama. Song is heart. And

a community chorus should have a great heart.

—Reprinted by permission from Music Publisher!
Journal, May-June 1945.

Meef You of fhe Rink!

(Continued from page 293)

clean fun. Of course, even among the small fry,
there were some beginners and others whose skat-
ing was not quite up to snuff. For them the last
fifteen minutes of the physical education period was
devoted to instruction. The youngsters were keen
about this period because they could learn and
practice without fear of being kidded by their more
proficient friends.

Unfortunately $3.00 a pair for enough skates to
supply the demand isn’t “small change.” This prob-
lem was solved by charging a nominal fee (from
two to five cents) for periods and parties. It didn’t
take long—even at that small sum in charges—to
pay off the original bill, and as soon as that was
taken care of the fees ivere discontinued.

A Community Program

This was all very fine as far as it went. But as
the word of skating fun Spread around, more and
more young people were begging for skates to wear
and a time and place to wear them. They were
also begging for other forms of recreation; for
dancing and table tennis and general play activi-
ties. So a citizen’s committee of school patrons and
teachers was formed. They raised money from the
community for an eight week experimental pro-
gram to be held one night a week.

Each Wednesday night from six to seven-thirty
was given over to youngsters from grades one to
six. When they left, Junior and Senior High
Schoolers took over until ten. They skated and
danced and played games, according to their sev—
eral inclinations. The main trouble was—-—not
enough skates. So a time limit was set on all
skating, and each boy and girl had a chance to
skate at least once each evening. So successful
was the program that it was enlarged for the 1944-
4 5 school term, and more skates will be purchased

,as soon as government regulations permit.

RECREATION

To Expat-I‘d 'your Post-War Athletic Program-

 

 

The Voit label has become synonymous tough rubber cover that adds up to make
with quality Rubber-Covered Athletic

your budget go fartherl So, keep your
Equipment. You remember how Voit pio-

. e e on Voit . . . and watch for future on-
neered with a long-wearing ball that Y

gave you longer service at lower cost. "°""‘eme"l5 °f " c°mPl°l° l'” "1‘"

It’s the durable fabric carcass with its covers the field.

  
 

3 l
l O  ‘1 smmmc-nusam-covrnm
F ' ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT  _ "

Mtgd.by W J V°"R”bb“'c°"’ ."m'esesroéAkm ‘--
1600 E. 25th St Los Angulcs 11, Calif AREVOITDEAtERS '

      

Inn 70 stung]. ~ I".' Nu ‘s‘o’ .bv- (in... In". '

SEPTEMBER 1945 323

324 WHERE CAN A GIRL CLIMB A TREE?

Where Can a Girl Climb a Tree?

(Continued from page 284)

Would it not be well, on the edge of town, in some
of your park areas, to leave, say two acres, and to
plow it and plant it with daisies and buttercups
and black-eyed Susans, and then put a board fence
- arOund it, a tight fence with knot-holes here and
there, so that children looking through the holes
would long to be inside. This fence should have
no gate, but instead a hole near the bottom some-
where— a hole that looks as if someone had
broken the boards—--not too large and not too
small a hole, but one just right—a hole that one
could feel happy about crawling through without
leaving a piece of garment behind. I can very well
imagine that a child getting in and out of the hole
without tearing his breeches and carrying home
a handful of daisies would feel that he had had a
successful day.

“Well,” you say, “the children will tear the
grass out by the roots and soon there won’t be any
field.” To this, I say, “Oh yes there will, because
next spring we will repeat the process of planting
and preparation and go through it all over again.”
Surely you would not object to paying for this,
for do you not pay the Fish and Game Commis-
sion to stock the streams and lakes with lovely
trout just so that you can yank them out again—
sometimes just a few days after stocking? Do you
not demand that this be done year after year? You
see, I am sure, what I mean. We arrange parks of
beauty for a feast for our eyes and stock our
streams with trout for the joy of catching them,
but we completely overlook the possibility of leav-
ing behind a few of the joys which to us are no

longer important, but which to children are life
indeed.

I had a very pleasant experience and a nice
surprise a few days ago while out on an inspection
tour with the officers and staff of the Palisades
Interstate Park Commission. We were riding
along one of the highways in the park that wound
its way down the Palisades and presently we found
ourselves almost on the level of the Hudson River.
We were looking at a lovely piece of meadow, a
nice prospect for the eye. The President of the
Commission said that the Commission had recently
acquired this meadow—some eighty acres of it, I
think. I asked, “What are you going to do_ with
it?” “Let it grow wild, just as it is,” was his
reply. “Thank goodness for that,” I said. “It is a
nice piece of meadow and I am glad to know that

you are going to allow it to remain and take care
of it as it is, so that others may enjoy it.”

On the opposite side of the meadow and run-
ning at right angles to the shore was a spit of land
with deep water and the customary fishing shacks
alongside. “It is too bad,” said one of the group,
“that we have to submit to those shacks. They are
anything but pretty.” “Not at all,” said I, “they
furnish atmosphere; just what one would expect
to find at a spot like this. Besides, I know some
people who travel all the way to Provincetown
each year just to find and paint pictures of places
like these.” And so I was very happy to know that
they did not intend to do anything about the
meadow and could do nothing about the shacks.

Now I would have you understand that I do
know the value of the parks which you have built
and do recognize their formal beauty. I know we
should have parks. There are many places in our
citics where we might have more of them. Tri-
angles at street intersections offer an opportunity
for beautification and some benches where the
weary may rest. Parks are essential. They beau-
tify. They offer prospects for the eye, space for
air, and a little green where all is bleak and grim
and given over to utility and to business. So I say
keep up your good work and build your parks, but
build them in places of need and with discernment.
And, above all, leave a place where a child can
freely pick a daisy and a girl can climb a tree.

Neighborhoods of Tomorrow

(Continued from page 287)

exists in varying forms. In Dallas, Los Angeles,
New York, Pittsburgh, in Radburn, New Jersey,
and Greenbelt, Maryland, in Welwyn and Man—
chester, England, in Lima, Bogota and Buenos
Aires it is a tested reality. But for San Jose the
residential area that has a large, central recreation
space, restricted traffic, shopping center, and other
carefully planned features is still a dream that can
be achieved—after the war. That is why it is for
us, the ‘Neighborhood of Tomorrow.’

“The future is now aborning. Local owners of
tracts of land, large-scale builders, realty men and
others are thinking of new deve10pments. Blue-
prints are being prepared. An expanded commu—
nity is in the making. The opportunity to create
something new and better is at hand. Some day,
too, there will be an opportunity to rebuild certain
areas of the city in which from one-third to two-
fifths of the dwellings are already badly run down.

RECREATION

EDUCATION’S NEW OBLIGATIONS 325

What do people want and what do they not want
in home surroundings? What do they worry
about? What do they long for?

“San Joseans worry about the same things that
people in other cities worry about: juvenile de-
linquency, children playing in the street, hit-run
driving, lack of exercise, the increase in heart
diseases, the decline in church attendance, the in-
conveniences of shopping, the drop in property
values that the future may bring, and the noise of
trucks on residential streets. They don’t like neigh-
borhoods that lack playgrounds, have inadequate

shopping facilities, and are bisected by dangerous
traffic arteries.

“They long for the same things that people
everywhere long for: a safe, near-by place for the
children to play, a swim on a hot day, opportunity
to ‘get together’ often with friends, a pleasant
view, quiet, protection against neighborhood de-
terioration, less wear and tear in their daily lives,
a greater sense of freedom and security.

“A planned neighborhood isn’t the answer to
all of life’s problems. But it can simplify daily liv-
ing and contribute richly to the happiness of the

entire family. Shopping becomes a matter of only
a few minutes when all the supplies and services

required for day-to-day living are available in one
place. Spiritual needs are better served when the
church is near-by. There is less juvenile delin-
quency where recreational facilities for children and
young people are ample and easily accessible, and
where qualified leaders are on hand to direct lei-
sure-time activities. Family life goes more smoothly
and fewer people have mental and physical ills
where there are opportunities for adults to relax
in pleasant surroundings after the day’s work, to
get some fun and exercise on the playfield, and to
meet informally at the neighborhood clubhouse for

dancing, singing, dramatics, or stimulating dis-
cussion.”

One Man's Meat

( Continued fitom page 305)

else has gone out of the room leaving you to hide
something.

You go out for a sociable evening and find that
there is no conversation, repeated choosing of
sides, many whisperings, and long silences while
everybody thinks. You may as well face it: you
can give up or give.

SEPTEMBER 1945

 

Education's New Obliga’rions

(Continued from page 286)

is to advise on policies, to encourage attendance, to
promote special events. Volunteer workers from
among the citizenry, housewives and teachers and
college students and high school graduates, aug-
ment the professional staff.

Funds for the program are provided by Federal
grant, by the county and the city, by the Com-
munity Chest, and by community organizations.
The annual budget is $21,120.

The spirits of Benjamin Symes and john Eaton
must surely look benignly upon this continuation
of their plan for the people of Elizabeth City
County; upon the twentieth century use for a gift
of 700 acres of ground. “The milk and increase of
eight cows” has long since ceased “to maintain a
learned and honest man” in operating a free
school. But other learned and honest citizens——
both men and women—are treading in the foot-
steps of that first teacher in the free school of
Elizabeth City County, and the Symes-Eaton
Academy continues to house the labors and the
plans that make for fuller living for all the people.

326 BOYS AND GIRLS TOGETHER

Boys and Girls Together
(Continued from page 299)

The campfire period was one of the day’s high-
lights. Another was swimming, especially the late
afternoon period. The group was divided into
waders, splashers, and swimmers. Given two
weeks with any child going to the camp as a non—
swimmer, the waterfront director and his coun—
selor assistants'made a fairly good swimmer of
him. Careful instruction was given during the
morning swim period, and in the general period
there was supervision aimed at improving the les-
sons learned earlier in the day.

But swimming wasn’t the only water sport.
Boating and canoeing were allowed, with close
supervision. Proper rowing and paddling and
other details of the handling of boats and canoes
were carefully taught. When the children left
camp they had developed skills in water and other
sports, handcrafts and arts, and in outdoor life in
general.

0 The Facilities

At St. Mary’s the boys and girls live and work
and play in a camp which is ideal. The site com—
prises twenty-three acres, with part of its lake
frontage a sandy beach which is perfect for swim-
ming. It is located on hilly, wooded land with its
large main (administration) building, a brick
structure, perched high on a hill overlooking the
lake.

The main building is laid out on friendly, ram-
bling lines. It has a large dining room and modern
kitchen, a library supplied with the best of chil—
dren’s books from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation
library, a large workroom where the arts and crafts
are taught and practiced, rooms for counselors,
and a wide veranda looking down on the lake.

.On the hillsides surrounding the main building
are eight attractive cabins, modern and well in-
sulated, suitable for winter as well as summer use.
The windows may be flung wide open so that the
children may sleep practically out of doors. Each
of the cabins is made up of three or four units,
each unit accommodating seven children and a
junior counselor. A senior counselor is in charge
of each cabin as a whole.

This year the operation of the camp is somewhat
in the nature of an experiment as a community
venture in financing. We hope eventually to be
able..to turn the St. Mary’s Lake Camp into a
community project, entirely self-supporting, or
supported in part by fees and in part by contribu-
tions from the community in One fOr'm or another.

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO'.

315 MAQQUEVE - Fit/NIL :21; .A »

 

The extent of community cooperation and in—
terest in the camp project thus far is shown in the
directorship. The director of civic recreation for
Battle Creek, has been given permission by the
city commission to act as general director of St.
Mary’s Lake Camp. The camp association’s board
of directors and officers are a cross-section of the
business and professional people of Calhoun
County.

Winter Camping
Another development at the camp began in
October 1944 when a school-year camping pro-
gram was undertaken by the public schools of Cal-
houn County. About forty boys and girls of the
fifth and sixth grades attended each two-week
period. They learned science through field trips,

-mathematics through operating their own camp

store and post office and figuring quantities of food
for meals, reading and literature through story
hours, and physical education through sports such
as skiing, tobogganing and fishing. During the
year the State Legislature passed a bill making it
legal for the public schools to appropriate funds
for the support of camping education. Plans for
1945 include the same program with the addition
of more children per period and a trained staff.

RECREATION

RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE 327

GA M E S F0 R
ALL AMERICA

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

Way out ahead of any other
outdoor games in America—so
iar as participation is concerned
—baseball and softball are truly
the All-American games ior all
America. Millions of Louisville
Slugger Bats have gone and are
still going to Uncle Sam's fight-
ers, but one day soon they will
again be available for use at

6} ~ home in unlimited quam‘i’fles +0

I iJllllEllllIHEBllllIISHYlil-I

“(gillsylufizi' / F

.w...

BRAbSBY;COLMPANY, ma. LOUISVILLE. KY.

0’ . .
i . meet everyone's need.
it‘d-‘3 ;.. \2 '

HILLERICH

Recreation for Older People

(Continued from page 290)

available, it should easily be possible to plan de-
bates and lectures by, as well as for, the aged,
smoke talks, “old-timers nights,” cards, chess,
checkers and like games, picnics, carnivals, bar-
becues, festivals, theater parties, cinematic show-
ings, dramatic presentations. It should be possi-
ble to enlist commercial interests to provide oc-
casional free talkies at the center or at theaters,
and (after the war) free bus and boat trips, an-
nual banquets and like events. Fraternal organi—
zations could be solicited for occasional projects by
special groups. There could well be made available
kits for sewing bees for the ladies, and simple
materials for men who care to whittle, practice
gardening, engage in philately. There could be
public forums, “round tables,” essay contests, and
similar appointments for the more intellectual.
There might well be competitive teams formed
along the various lines, and the incentive of prizes
need not be overlooked. Surely the creation and

SEPTEMBER 1945

 

stafhng of such centers might well constitute a
part of postwar planning.

Needless to say, a program of public recreation
for the aged will be worth while only if adminis—
tered by sincere, efficient, understanding person-
nel. It could, it seems to us, prove immensely en-
lightening and constructive. . . . In any event, we
are in favor of stimulating thinking and rethinking
on this subject. This is not meant to be the last
word, but merely a first.

Why Not Give an Art Exhibit

(Continued from page 316)

count on at least four guests for every exhibitor,
and if your publicity work has been thorough, many
outsiders. You may even sell some work and get
commissions for others—we did. At any rate, the
happiness you will have created, both for exhibit-
ors and for audience, and the new field of recrea-
tion which you will have opened for many people
will warm your hearts and give you courage to
plan an exhibit again.

328 , TO SERVE THE COMMUNITY PURPOSE

To Serve the Community Purpose
(Continued from page 315)
bined in a fireworks display of Mt. Etna in erup-
tion, accompanied by the music of Gluck, Haydn,
and Handel.

The earlier town centers and the English tavern
and the pleasure garden had the special virtue of
drawing people into close contact with each other,
and often into participation in the entertainment
provided.

In our contemporary world of specialized com-
mercial entertainment and single purpose cultural
activity it is this element of intimacy, participation,
social interchange, and communal feeling that is
particularly lacking.

And as each activity withdraws into a building
of its own, isolating itself from others—which is
largely what has happened—all sense of the inter-
relationships of the social and cultural life is lost
and at no point, really, do all members of a coma
munity have the occasion or the inducement or
the pleasure of coming together, except as they
pass each other on the sidewalks of our Main
Streets. .

This need not happen. At the University of
Wisconsin, for instance, it has not been allowed
to happen. In the Memorial Union there have
been brought together in one place dining rooms
and meeting rooms, game facilities and social halls,
library, art workrooms and galleries, theater and
concert hall—all forming a great social-cultural
heart out of which flow the currents which inform
the life of the community with dignity and mean-
ing. Here in the Union are forged a common will
and common purpose.

The presence of the building structure by itself
doesn’t do these things. Pe0ple need to be present
-——many pe0ple, trying it all out. In any day many
thousands of pe0ple pass through the Union. They
are not just marching through, as through a rail-
way station or down State Street. Each day they
sit at dining tables and hammer out their personal
and group views and conclusions; meet in rooms
to lay out courses of common action; listen to
good music; read in the library; see the world we
live in through motion pictures; feel the inspira-
tion of common thought proceeding from a speaker
or a play; design and build in the craft shops and
stage sh0p, thus learning the satisfaction of per—
sonal creation; look into the mirror of past cul-
tures and of our own on the art gallery walls;
discover that prejudiced feelings about race and

religion dissolve on a ski trip or aroun'da game

table or in a coinmittee that does things together;
form appreciations and learn techniques of doing
things that can be applied for a lifetime.

This is the way people can find new satisfac-
tions in life. \Visconsin’s Memorial Union has
proved and is proving the values that come from
a community center.

Substance of Things Hoped For

(Continued from page 298)
By this time several organizations in the C0111-

munity had become interested and were offering
their services. The Grange, which is the largest
and ‘most active of these, offered to help finance
the cabin provided they might use it as a Grange
Hall. Their first contribution of $200 went to pay
for the chimney which was the most expensive
single item.
, Came the War

Unfortunately the war broke out before the
cabin was completed. It lacked floor, wiring,
water, and some inside partitions necessary to
provide rest rooms and kitchen. The young teacher
who had been its inspiration went to the army.
Class members felt rudderless for a time and think
they wasted most of their sophomore year so far
as the project was concerned. But it had become
too much a part of them to make it possible to give
up what they had begun. They found their direc-
tion, developed their own leaders, and carried on.

The war made it difficult to get materials for
wiring and plumbing. The community needed a
home for its cannery. The cabin was offered. Dur—
ing last year and this, thousands of cans of vege-
tables and meats have been processed there, and
the boys and girls have considered it not only a
patriotic duty but a real privilege to make this con-
tribution. Their recreation center could wait until
the end of the war if there were other more im-
portant things to be done.

Now it seems as if this will not be necessary.
The community plans to construct a building to
house the canning equipment. This year’s canning
season will end in December, and the cabin will
again be available for other uses. It is hoped that
then the floor may be laid and the partitions ‘
erected. The wiring and water installed for the
cannery will remain. The class which began the
cabin as freshmen looks forward to holding its
final class activities in the building.

Plans and Program
The constitution drawn up by the freshman
{class is-the one-under which the organization will

RECREATION

SUBSTANCE OF THINGS HOPED FOR 329

ROCHELLE
INC.

BOYS CLUBS o
CHURCHES o .

CITY RECREATION

all over the couner are adapting this new way of bowling that
requires no pin-boys but is played and scored the same as
regulation bowling. Our Service men and women in camps

and USO clubs went wild over the game!

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY m

TWO-WAY BOWLING GUHPURATIUN

operate. It provides for a board of directors with
representatives of the Board of Education, the
Auburn Grange, the high school faculty, the stu-
dent body, the PTA, the Home Demonstration
Club, and the community at large. This board is
now conferring with the senior class on plans and
programs. Responsibility, financial and otherwise,
will be a cooperative concern for all groups repre-
sented. School classes and community organiza-
tions have continued to raise money for the recre—

ation center even while canning was its only ac—
tivity. In fact, a small amount of the proceeds
from the canning itself has gone into the cabin
fund. This will be used to purchase more cans
which will be sold at a slight profit and continue to
be a source of revenue.

SEPTEMBER 1945 '

Y.M.C.A’s and Y.W.C.A's o
SERVICE CENTERS

 

SCHOOLS
o FRATERNAL ORGANIZATIONS

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New Yorlr

Gentlemenz- We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name ....................  .........................  ............. ..
Addrerr ...........................  .....  ..............  .... ..

 

The ladies of the community feed the fund from
the proceeds from feeding organizations. They are
good business people, these ladies of the commu—

nity. At one dinner they cleared $130.

Program is calling for more thought. Organiza-
tions will, of course, take care of their own pro—
grams. Like every community, however, the
Auburn District has many people who do not
belong to any organizations. These it is, for the
most part, who constitute'the more than 50 per
cent not participating in any constructive recrea-
tion. It was dismay at their predicament that
moved the freshman class tosaction. It seems
likely that the same spirit will make possible a
truly constructive program meeting the needs of all.

330

ARTS and CRAFTS

For All Occasions

For All Age Groups

111

Junior ARTS & CRAFTS

magazine

Paper cutting, weaving, modeling, proj-
ects from scrap materials, art experi-

ences, dioramas, wood working, making

masks, design, nature crafts and experi-

ments—gifts, things to wear, decorations

plus

Articles on music, social types, nature
study, citizenship, history, geography.
Plays, programs, songs.

All contained in every monthly issue.

Iyear . . . $3.00

(10 conseculive issues)

. . $5.00

(20 consecutive issues)

2 years .

 Send for our special circular,
:- 9R. Contains additional informa-

tion, sample project page, and other helps.

Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

4616. North Clark Street
Chicago 40, Illinois

q

 

THE COUNTY COMES TO AN INSTITUTE

The County Comes to an Institute
(Continued from page 294)

before radio station KTBC broadcast announce-
ments about institute plans.

Details of Planning. Plans for the training ses—
sions and the picnic were made with care for de-
tails. Necessary materials and equipment—includ—
ing such things as registration cards and badges, a
piano, a public address system, tables and chairs—-
were provided for, checked and rechecked. Three
Austin business firms donated pencils and note
pads for the “instituters.”

The Program

\‘Vhen the time for the institute finally came
around— 10 A. M. on Saturday, April 7—there
were sixty-three people from twenty communities
present. The program in which they participated
follows:

9:30-10:30 A. M.——~Registration. (A volunteer took charge
of seeing that each person fi]led out a registration card.
These were then handed to a person at another table
who typed the names and organizations on a badge
which was pinned on the registrant.)

10:30—Introduction of cossponsors of the institute.

10:40—Social Recreation, (A period of an hour and a
half devoted to games, both quiet and active, and dances
which could be used for home, church, school, and club
recreation hours.)

12 :l 0—Community Singing.

12:20—Introductory discussion of club or organization
and leadership.

12:35 to 2:00—Lunch at park—barbecue and coffee fur-
nished by the Chamber of Commerce.

2:00-3:00—Pancl discussion on club leadership with
County Home Demonstration Agent, a home-making
teacher from one of the county schools, and presidents
of a Home Demonstration club, a P.T.A., a 4-H club, a
youth center council, a Girl Scout troop, and a church
young people's club. (This was followed by a discussion
by the leader of the panel (Recreation Department
stafi member) on techniques for organizing clubs, dis-
covering leadership, and training clu'b ofiicers.

3:00—3:45—wS-ocia1 recreation period (folk dances and
group singing).

3:45—5:00—Program planning for community nights and
other special programs—“Types of programs, organiza-
tion and leadership, factors in planning. ’

Criticisms and Recommendations

At the end of the day’s session, the group was
asked to evaluate the plan of the institute and to
offer constructive criticism for future occasions of '
the same kind. Some felt that rural people have
too many obligations at home. to devote an entire
day to an institute. Others pointed out that they

7 could not get-through the business planned for a .

RECREATION

USE YOUR BUILDING PROGRAM TO BUILD FRIENDS 331

SEND NOW for our Wm  of

SELECTED MDTIUN PIETUBES
jut @f/dze paw!

Over |.000 titles listed alphabetically

Segregated according to subiect
‘k

Excellent basis for every program!

FOR YOUR   Arts and Crafts films - Character Educa-

tion and Citizenship - Health and Safety - Social Sciences - Sports and training—as well as
many other vital topics.

    Fine choice of entertainment films,

including many features. Literary Classics such as: ‘
"Adventures of Tom Sawyer" o "The Good Earth"
"Mutiny on the Bounty" o "Tale of Two Cities"

Film Gzzz'der Availabie Upon Reqzzert for Many of 0m FiZmJ
Y. M. Q. A. DIOTICDN PICTURE BUREAU

19 So. LoSoIle Street 351 Turk Street

CHICAGO 3, ILLINOIS

Saturday in town if they spent the whole day in
meetings—no matter how valuable. Their alterna-
tive suggestion was simple and effective and an-
swered all objections. The group wanted more
training sessions, but they wanted them limited to
the morning.

The group considered with favor a recommen-
dation that they promote the idea of a county com—
mittee on recreation planning and training. Further
discussions of this idea, they decided, would be
held with the Rural Youth Counselor when she
visited the various community organizations in the
coming months.

Use Your Building Program to
Build Friends

(Continued from page 314)

the neighbors excited about it while you are plan-

ning, it may be turned into one of enthusiasm and
whole-hearted cooperation.

Are you planning to meet the demand for adult
education? Are you planning for a program of
vocational training? The war has emphasized the
tremendous power of our industrial development

SEPTEMBER 1945

SAN FRANCISCO 2, CALIFORNIA

710 Burt Building
1700 Patterson Avenue
DALLAS 'l, TEXAS

347 Madison Avenue
NEW YORK 17, N. Y.

and has hinted at its future possibilities. The after-
math of war will see not a let-up but a continued
application of industry in everyday life, increasing
year by year. The complexities of the modern age
will demand a more specialized system of training
if we are to equip our youth properly.

Concretely, this may mean laboratories and shops
for the “learning by doing” method in the fields of
radio, television, electronics, carpentry, metal work,
plastics, building construction; it may include
studios, drafting rooms and shops for printing, for
industrial design and for the practice of the other
arts and crafts; it may call for workroonis for ac-
countancy, secretarial training, public relations,
business practice, banking. The reaction of the
parents of the children and of the leaders of vari-
ous civic organizations to this program will be
extremely important to its success. It has been
emphasized that this is a time for planning. Why
not make it also a time for public education? If,
step by step, you use your new building program
as a “public relations” medium, if you explain its
purpose and thus increase the number of its sup-
porters, you will accomplish a double purpose.
\Vhen you are permitted to build, your plans will
be ready and your community will be receptive.

332 A VERMONT COMMUNITY PI ONE ERS

Have you seen this insignia?

Do you know what it means?

It stands‘ for Honorable Service
to Our Cozintry, and is worn with
pride by all men and women who
have been honorably discharged
from the armed services.

 

A Vermont Community Pioneers
(Continued from page 301)

Membership in the club is slightly more than
500. The use of the building by adults and young
people passed the 50,000 mark last year. Participa-
tion by youngsters has increased and, in the adult
group, both men and women are well represented.
The adults favor active recreation. The program
for young people includes both active and quiet
programs. With ninety organizations for adults in
the town, demands for all types of leisure-time
activities are pretty well cared for. Music is, per-
haps, the one form of recreation for adults that
receives the least recognition on a community
basis, though within the various organizations
there are musical activities and our public schools
carry a very good program in all branches of
mu31c.

During the summer of 1944 the number of par-
ticipants in recreational activities at the summer
playgrounds was 8,564. Attendance for the 1944
season at the swimming pool—adults and children

was 8,681.

After—school playgrounds were set up last year
and proved to be very popular. This program
gave the rural children a share in activities Which

they cannot have during the summer. The village
in the northern part of the town is an exception,
since it has a playground of its own as well as a
skating rink.

In reviewing the past few years we do feel a
glow of satisfaction over what has been accom-
plished. The confidence expressed by the public
through their unanimous approval of the increased
budget is especially gratifying. Our present bud—
get for the Recreation Commission is $9,000, a
sum which is appropriated at the annual town
meeting. The revenue derived through the club for
1944 was $9,500. From the endowment fund
$4,484 was spent on building repairs and overhead.
The endowment fund invested in government
bonds is now $22,470.

N0 undertaking is carried on without accom-
panying problems. Ours is no exception. Lack of
suchient leadership and labor on areas is problem
number one. A second one is lack of desirable
play areas. The space is available, but in most
instances it is unattractive and not adaptable to all
types of games. Being a country town where a
great majority of the children have pleasant home
surroundings in which to play, it is not reasonable
to expect children to want to come to some less
attractive spot for group play under direction. Our
Commission is not indifferent to this situation, and
our Park Commission is also interested, but having
recently had a town planning committee set up
under the leadership of experts, the Recreation
Commission has waited for guidance by them. The
lack of available labor has proved another deter-
rent. Doubtless, these two major problems will be
solved at the close of the war. At present the two
full-time and three part—time workers under the
Recreation Commission are “holding the line.”

That we have a year-round recreation program
is largely due to the help and untiring interest
taken by the N ationa] Recreation Association
whose services have always been so willingly given.
Another encouraging feature is the fact that Ver-
mont has recognized the importance of super-
vised recreation and has a State Director who has
made her first year one of outstanding merit.

“I think it is especially important in these days
when so much attention is concentrated on purely
mechanical progress that the education of our
young people should be balanced by the apprecia—
tion of what the outdoor world means to us both
in subsistence and the joys of living.” Franklin
D. Robsevelt.

 

RECREATION

MA CA ZINES AND PA MPHLETS 333

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker a

 

MAGAZINES

The Camping Magazine, June 1945

A Service Program for Older Campers, Margarito
Hall

Archery in the Camp Program, Myrtle K. Miller
Canoe Storage Racks, W. Van B. Claussen

Beach and Pool, June 1945

Survival for Our Sailors, Robert H. Cowing
Don’t Teach Youngsters to Swim Too Soon, Ethelda

Blei‘btrey
Physically Handicapped Enjoy Swimming PrOgram,
Jack Houlihan

PAMPHLETS

Girl Scouts Alleeaders’ Guide for Working with the
Handicapped '

Girl Scouts, 155 East 44th Street, New York 17,
New York

Manual of Minimum Standards for Camps

Committee on Camp Standards, Camp Section,
Greater Boston Community Council, 261 Franklin
Street, Boston, Massachusetts. $1.00

Places for Playing in Cleveland
City Planning Commission, Cleveland, Ohio

Playground Manual
Department of Recreation, Reading, Permsylvania

Public Playground Leaders' Handbook
Recreation Division, Kansas City, Missouri

 

 

Teen Fashions

(Continued from page 291)

open to any high school student. And although
the operation of the center is under the direction
of an executive secretary who is employed by the
Department of Recreation, the Junior Council
actually governs Teen Tavern.

A comprehensive program was planned to pro-
vide recreation of various types: ping-pong, a
miniature bowling alley, a place for dancing, a
snack bar and lounge, with facilities for reading,
writing, a radio, and a victrola, quiet games.

It was in this atmosphere, through one of the
interest groups promoted by the Center, that plans
for the fashion show came into being. It hap-
pened this way:

In the early fall, the executive secretary, in
planning her winter program, got a group inter—
ested in painting murals on the walls. On this
project the art supervisor in the public schools

worked closely with the group of youngsters. The a .

SEPTEMBER 1945

-_— —. _‘ .5 m--_--' ‘

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
 MARQUETlL - : "no on mm. m.

 

lad who led the group had shown an intense in—
terest in art during his school years. While work—
ing on the murals one day, he remarked to the
secretary of Teen Tavern that although he loved
to paint, painting was not his real interest.

“What is your _real interest, Harry?” she in-
quired, and Harry replied: “What I really like to
do is to design clothes.”

“W ell,” she said, “you can do that if you want,
and we can put on a fashion show.”

The seed was sown, and during the next few
months Harry’s attention and interest were focused
on the designing and planning of the costumes that
would be displayed in the fashion show. He had
studied for six weeks of the previous summer at
Franklin School of Professional Art in New York
City, and he now spent his time applying all the
fundamentals he had learned.

First, he selected models from the students who
came for try-outs. Each costume was especially
designed and created for the model selected. Dur-
ing the Christmas holidays Harry went to New
York and spent a week selecting materials suitable
for, his subjects. -Returning home, he cut the pat-

334 PLANNING VS. POSTWAR PLANNING

 

 

 

you Gan Use,

THE IOURNAL of HEALTH "

and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on}

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health,
physical education, and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EPUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Slxteenth St., N.W., Woshlngton 6, O. C.

 

i'

terns for every dress, and gave instructions to the
mothers for making them. .

At last the costumes were finished, and the
youthful models came eagerly to rehearse in their
delectable-looking play clothes, date frocks, eve-
ning dresses, a striking negligee and pajamas. In
order to achieve the maximum effect, it was de-
cided to utilize three of the Center’s interest
groups—music, art, and the dance.

A local dancing teacher planned and instructed
the students in apprOpriate dances for their cos—
tumes. The “Teen Tavern Tooters,” an orchestra
composed of members of the club, furnished music
for the program. The stage was set.

The first evening, the fashion show was pre-
sented far invited guests, including parents of the
models and other members of Teen Tavern. The
members were admitted for twenty—five cents. The
second evening, the show was open to the public
and general admission charged at fifty cents. As
the final curtain fell, applause and genuine en-
thusiasm were evident on all sides.

Planning vs. Postwar Planning
(Continued from page 306)

needs are filled. We are headed in the direction of
some kind of enforced “spending moratorium” un—
less restraint is shown by taxing bodies in the
period following the war. Too frequently municipal
bodies have spent money in times of prosperity and
restricted spending in times of financial depres-
sion. It would seem that municipal bodies might
help achieve greater economic stability if they
would restrict large capital 'in'Vestinentsand a‘pproa

priations for improvement as far as possible during
boom periods, and release tax funds at those times
when civilian demands are low.

(4) In line with the foregoing proposal, legislation
should be enacted permitting all municipalities to
create sinking funds during prosperous periods,
which could then be released during lean years.
The legislation should provide that these sinking
funds could be used only for the purposes for
which they are established. The tax dollar would
have more value, or at least the municipality would
not go into the market in competition with civil-
ian demands as now is the case. Costly special as—,
sessment proceedings would be reduced to a mini-
mum. Tax anticipation warrants would be elimi-
nated and bond issues would 'be reduced in num-
ber and total amounts.

(5) In planning for the future, no taxing body should
forget that the American taxpayer will be loaded
down with the heaviest federal tax burden ever
carried by our people. Postwar plans should be in
the direction of relief rather than increase of this
burden—every improvement must be justifiable
which definitely excludes the “make work” type of
project or the “it would ‘be nice to have” public
improvement. Our planners should be thinking of
ways to eliminate overlapping tax bodies and how
to’coordinate duplicating services and facilities
within our American communities. Any critical
analysis of community organization will reveal
many ways in which cooperation of taxing bodies
would result in greater economy and efficiency in
the administration of essential community services.

(6) After our military objectives are accomplished and
it is no longer considered unpatriotic to complain
about government costs, the taxpayer will attempt
to find ways and means of reducing taxation.
Obviously, little can be done about our federal
funded debt, but state, county and local municipal
expenditures will be closely scrutinized. All post-
war plans should be designed to withstand the

minutest examination in costs of construction and
maintenance.

The exciting decade confronting the American
people is a challenge to our ingenuity, industry,
resourcefulness, and vision. And the greatest of
these will be vision for it is written in the good
book that “without vision a people perish.”

 

“A real recreation program in a community
gives zest and interest to the daily lives of people,
builds strong physical fiber and character in its

row to grow up in, a friendlier town for newcom—
ers. Recreation is one of the very real forces cre—
ating a town that people like to call home.”—-—-From
Community Recreation C omes of Age.

RECREATION

SOCIETY OF RECREATION WORKERS OF AMERICA 335

Society of Recreation
Workers of America

EORGIA HAS JOINED the ranks of states form-
6 ing recreation associations which have afiili-
ated as State Units with the Society of Recreation
Workers of America. The Georgia Recreation
Association was set up in April 1945, at a meet-
ing in Athens, Georgia. Officers elected at that
time are: President, Mr. Carl Hager, of Bruns-
wick, Georgia; Vice-President, Miss Gertrude
Bouchard, of Columbus, Georgia; Secretary and
Treasurer, Mr. Oka T. Hester. Membership in
this association is approximately thirty people,
who have set up for themselves a broad program
for 1945. Committees have been appointed and
chairmen selected for various activities throughout
the state.

Of interest to the members of the Society of
Recreation Workers of America also is the notice
sent out in July requesting suggestions for the
1945-6 slate of officers. To be elected for the com-
ing year are the following: president, two vice-
presidents, secretary, treasurer, and five members-
at-large of the Administrative Council. “The nomi-
nating committee,” according to the statement,
“will appreciate the full support of our member-
ship in presenting for final approval candidates
who will have the following special qualifications:

I. Loyalty to the organization, its ideals and
aims.

2. Proved leadership in the professional recre’a—
tion field.

3. Ability to use tact, good judgment and
diplomacy when needed.

4. Ability to assume responsibility, to c00per-
ate, to take and give constructive criticism,
and to compromise when necessary.

5. Ability to devote time to the job.

All communications should be addressed to Mr.

William Leonard, Director of Parks and Recrea-
tion, City Hall, Schenectady, New York.

Community Swing

(Continued from page 312)

made to interest people in such activities. At pres-
ent, good square dance records are few and difficult
to obtain; when more are available, an even greater
impetus in the folk dancing movement can be
expected.

SEPTEMBER 1945

AM

All-American Swimming and Shower Caps

New  Caps in Colors!

No.350 AVIATRIX
Shower Cap

Excellent for shower. mata-
up. changing gowns. As-
sorted colors, complete
sanitary packaging.

No. 900 AVIATRIX
NEW Vinyl Plastic Cap

Ideal for swimming. Variety
of tropical colors.

Immediate shipment upon
receipt of order.

 

Hair is unsanitary and clogs drains! Your pool needs
a supply of bathing caps! Aviatrix Caps: Superior
to rubber caps, adiustable to ALL head sizes. Each
exterior is resistant to water and constant use. [In-
quire for our special swimming skullcaps for boys
and men.)

4% 6a.

168 West 23rd Street
New Yorlc City

Paddle Tennis Tournament

HE U. S. PADDLE TENNIS ASSOCIATION an-

nounces that the National Paddle Tennis Tour-
nament for 1945, open championships for men and
women, will be held under the auspices of the
Paddle Tennis Association in cooperation with the
Parkchester Recreation Department, September 8
and 9. Finals will be held September 16. All en-
tries must be in by Monday, September 3.

Address all communications to Parkchester Rec-
reation Department, 67 Metropolitan Oval, Bronx
62, New York; or U. S. Paddle Tennis Associa-
tion, Madison Square Boys’ Club, 301 East 29th
Street, New York 16, New York.

Sgt. Murray Geller, indoor champion in 1943,
who is now in the Philippines has written to the
Paddle Tennis Association telling of the enthusi-
asm with which the game is greeted in the Pacific
area. ’

  

So You Are a School Board Member

Illinois ‘Association of School Boards, First National
, Bank Building, Springfield, Illinois. $.25.
WHAT EXACTLY are the powers Of a school 'board?
‘What are the duties and responsibilities of its mem-
bers? What printed materials are availalble for members,
conscientious but too often uninformed about the funda—
mentals of the jobs? This booklet undertakes to answer
such questions as these and to point out ways in which
school boards can give the most intelligent service to
their communities. Though written primarily for citi-
zens of Illinois the pamphlet’s suggestions should have
a wide appeal.

A Report of a Study on Recreation of
Absecon Island

Citizens’ Recreation Committee Of Absecon Island, At-
lantic City, N. J. $1.00.

THIS IS A REPORT of a survey made Ibyf’the National
Recreation Association of the recreational needs of
Atlantic City, Ventnor, Margate, Brigantine, and Long-
port with recOmmendation for the gradual development
of a recreation system over a fifteen-year period. The
suggested recommendations are designed to serve the
permanent population of the area, as well as the large and
fluctuating transient porpulation.

Combination Basketball Chart I

and Score Book

The Hillyard Company, St. Joseph, Missouri. Free. I

HE HILLYARD COMPANY offers for free distribution a

convenient booklet for recording basketball games to-
gether with a tournament Ibracket form. In addition to
forms for scoring games played other ‘blanks are pro-
vided for entering scoring reports.

Corrective Physical Education

By Josephine Langworthy Rathbone, Ph.D. W. B. Saun-
ders Company, Philadelphia. $3.00.

THIS IS THE THIRD EDITION of a lbook dealing with the

essential facts of human anatomy and physiology as
they pertain to the subject of corrective exercise. Of
special interest to recreation leaders is the chapter en—
titled “Physical Education in Rehabilitation” which dis-
cusses the value Of recreation for handicapped young
adults.

Gems of Thought

Damon Pu‘blishing COInpany, 2030 Mentor Avenue,
Wichita 12, Kansas. $.50.

ASELEC’I‘ION OF INSPIRATIONAL quotations taken from
the lives of philosOphers and thinkers from the time
of Plato to the present. The material is well arranged
and‘attractively printed.

336

New Publications in the Leisure Time" Field

 

American Planning and Civic Annual

Harlean James, Editor. American Planning and Civic As-
sociation, ‘Washington, D. C. $3.00.
THIS TENTH EDITION of the Annual published by the
American Planning and Civic Association is, for the
most part, a compilation Of the papers presented at the
Citizens Conference on Flaming 'held in St. Louis in
June 1944. The addresses dealt with problems on the
national, state, and local level and considered some of
the factors that will loom large in postwar planning.

The Golden Song Book

Selected and arranged -by Katharine Tyler Wessells.
Simon and Schuster, New York. Cloth $1.50. Paper
over board $1.00.

MANY SONGS AND SINGING GAMES that children have
loved and sung and played for generations are here
presented in attractive and useful form. Colorful illustra-
tions by Gertrude Elliott add to the chance of the book.
as directions for games add to its usefulness.

Judy at the Zoo

By Tom M‘aloney. U. S. Camera Publishing Corporation,
New York. $1.00. '

JERRY .COOKE HAS PROVIDED the phot0graphic illustra-
tions of a very young lady on a tour of the Brom
Children’s Zoo. Both text and pictures should prove
good fun for youngsters in the six tO ten age groups.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRRTT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARO BRAUCIIER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary OI the Board

GUSTAvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New Yerk, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOOOS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAuanR, New York, N. Y.
IIENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore. ‘

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMHER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EOISON, \Vest Orange, N. J.
ROBERI GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, thh.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWRR, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. M ELVILLE H. HASKRLL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Miehigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAuESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAvus '1’. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston. Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLINEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRs. SIGMUNO STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREORRICI: M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLm' WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

