Nature Recreation

ATURE RECREATION will be a major interest in the world of returned soldiers. Men spiritually
wounded by the war will seek 'the healing to be found in the woods, by the streams, under

open skies. Trees and flowers may "talk back," but in a special, soothing way. Readjust-
ment in the home to the noise of little children, to members of the family who after all know little
of the language of war, will be easier for many if they can from time to time slip away by them-
selves and make their souls whole again in the outdoor world of nature, perhaps with the family

dog as a companion.

At other times families will go out to picnic together, taking life up as if there hadgbeen
no period in between—forgetting for the time all that so much needs to be forgotten.

Some will be fishing again, or hunting (or pretending to, while they just tramp). Others
will hunt with the camera. Many soldiers are skilled now not only in the use of the camera
, but also in taking motion pictures. They will be pleased if the recreation center arranges for ex-

hibitions of their photographs and their motion pictures.

Science clubs will be desired that men may experiment and compare notes afterwards.

The more quickly to reach the ocean, the lake, the mountains, the forest, that there may be
more time for enjoying wilderness spots and less time taken going and coming, the automobiles
will play an important part—some will use helicopter hydroplanes to soar to remote mountain
lakes for fishing and for rest.

If only more and better bicycle paths are provided, youth of a certain age will pedal along
together to their favorite retreats. Always there. will be those who just like to tramp, who can
see more and enjoy more on foot. For those who cannot go far there is great advantage in the path
along the side, even of the well-traveled automobile highway, for such paths can be used for bits
of time at night. Only these paths‘should not be concrete; they must be kept up and fitted into the
landscape to give the most of beauty.

A little of leadership as to times and places for those who want to share tramping, bicycl—

9

ing, bird tours, “geology’ trips, observation of special nature phenomena, can give pleasure out of

all proportion to the cost. Of course eating together out of doors always helps. Volunteers can

play an important part in nature guiding.

The recreation center, the playground, gives a point of departure. The outlying city park,
the near-by county or state park, sometimes even a national park can be used. The parks and the
forests will all help the steady growth of camping under local government auspices.

More and longer vacations with pay for ofiice and industrial workers mean more calls on
. . . O " . . . . .
mun1c1pal recreation workers to help plan vacation tr1ps that bring close touch With nature.

The off-the-playgroun‘d, off-the-recreation center nature guidance program may well be an
increasing responsibility of the municipal recreation center and its community leaders.

HOWARD BBAUCHER

MARCH I945

617

‘.' "-r-  ' '~ u- ~

Courtesy Stanley Home Products, Inc.

The Enchan+ed Oak

(For story see page 632)

RECREATION

 

 

Courtesy Oglebay Park, W est Virginia

ET’s STOP TALKING about or even thinking in
L terms of “teaching” nature “study.” Nature
is so excitingly alive, our approach to it
should be dynamic, 'not static. It should be a per-
sonal adventure in discovering a living world, for
in that fashion is best kindled an awareness of the
vast storehouse of priceless treasure that surrounds
us and an intense eagerness to find out more about
these treasures.

Well and good! But how to begin? First of all,
be local, be seasonal, be quick to take a hint and
follow it through. Discover the gold nuggets
you’ve been stubbing your toe against without
ever bothering to pick them up—the trees within
a block of you; the birds that will fiock to a feed-
ing table and bath; the habits of the fiowers in
your garden; a weedy vacant lot on the corner.

Adventuring with Trees

Trees offer a fruitful field for adventuring. Notice
the difference in types of bark: the lovely chalky
paper of the birches; the thin,
brittle flakes of the plane tree

 

Nature ls Fun!

By ELIZABETH H. PRICE

Heigh-ho! Away we go
Riding on Adventure!

blindfolded and seeing how many can be
recognized by touch alone.

That’s a year—round project. In the fall
go hunting to see how many trees have
discarded their fruit and how many have
“hang-overs,” hanging on to the seed con—
tainers most or all of the winter. Only yesterday
I had a thrill in noticing for the first time that the
linden tree, whose leaves have long since fallen, is
still holding on to the curious leafiike contraptions
(bracts if you must be technical), to which the
fruit is attached. And in.the fall it is fun to walk
along with eyes on the ground and try to tell from
what you see there—leaves, seeds, or seed contain—
ers—what trees are about you. On a hillside, or
after a strong wind, it is sometimes a trick to find
the tree whence came your bit of evidence!

In the spring one of the most rewarding projects
I know is to find a tree with as large buds as pos-
sible (one near home where it can be easily watched
every day), tie a bright string near one particular
bud, and then watch to see what emerges from the
bud. My prize experience was a three-quarter inch
bud on a big leaf maple in my own garden from
which emerged a 30-inch twig bearing fourteen
leaves averaging 8 inches in diameter. Can you
better that?

A companion project in the
spring is to watch the unfold”

that can be picked off in such
a surprising variety of shapes
-——-a Scotty’s face, a peak-
capped witch, a hook—nosed
profile. It’s fun to 'see what
you can find. Then there are
_hard, deeply fissured barks,
or barks like that of the red-
wood with long, shreddy
fibres. See what others you
can find for yourself, and then
have fun in taking turns being

MARCH 1945

It runs in the family! Mrs. Price is the
mother of Betty Price Puckle who. when a
member of the staff of the National
Recreation AssociationI in I939 com-
piled and edited Adventuring in
Nature, now in its fourth printing.

For two years Mrs. Price served as Na-
ture Adviser. on the West Coast' for
Girl Scouts. Incorporated, and in this
capacity did much to stimulate interest
in nature. Until recently she has been Girl
Scout executive in San Jose, California.

ing from the bud of as many
different types of leaves as
possible. You see, tree leaves
are formed ahead of time,
perfect in every detail, but in
miniature and wrapped up in
a bud. When the ,bud opens,
one sees the exquisitely pleat-
ed and folded leaf, one leaflet
laid neatly atop another, each
cell ready and waiting at the
touch of warmth and mois-

619

620 NATURE IS FUN!

ture to expand and in an unbelievably short time
produce a full-sized leaf.

Do give yourself the pleasure of watching this
miracle. -You can bring indoors a bare branch
loaded with fat swelling buds (buckeye is ideal);
and place it in a jar of water in a warm room. Or
watch your house plants, or poke around in your
garden. Don’t overlook primrose and columbine
(aquilegia). They are so very different.

Ever see an elm tree in bloom? Lots of people
.will say, “Oh yes,” because they think the clusters
of winged seeds are the flowers. The blossom is
very obscure, has no petals, and is usually just a
quarter-inch bunch of dull red-brown threads on
the bare branches of a tall tree not easy of close
examination. Watch the bare, gray branches
against the sky, and when they take on a warm
tone and begin to look a bit warty manage some-
how or other to get hold of some twigs and see the
blossoms for yourself.

A friend of mine hired a small boy to climb on
top of her car; I brazenly borrowed a stepladder
from complete strangers and found myself- sur-
rounded by the highly interested members of the
household from Grandad and Aunt Jane to Jimmy
and Sister Sue. Elms were right in their own
front yard, blossoming every year, and not once
had any one of them ever noticed the flowers,
though they had been conscious enough of the
gutters full of paper-penny seeds year by year!

Ever notice that the leaves of practically all
members of the elm genus have mumps on one
margin? (Technically margins are unequal.) A
little Girl Scout in Washington gave me this jol-
lier name for it. ‘

One could go on to fill a book with larky tree
projeéts, but here is only one more. Make ink
prints of leaves as a souvenir of your adventures
with trees. All you need'will be a printer’s brayer
(gelatin roller), some printer’s ink (preferably
green), a sheet of glass about 8 by 10 inches, and a
loose-leaf notebook of unlined paper. Merely print-
ing and naming leaves is not much fun nor as sig-
nificant as making pages that tell a story. For in-
stance, a page each of all the kinds of oaks or
maples or orchard fruits or nuts in your vicinity,
or types of leaves and veining or margins or tex-
tures or all of the leaves you discover that have
glands, 0r leaves nibbled or skeletonized by insects,
or—but I must get on to something besides trees!

Let’s Talk About Birds!

Let’s talk about birds—hardest of all but most

delightful because the liveliest. If you are content

0

merely to identify them—well, there is consider—
able satisfaction in that; and of course one does
eventually want to know their names. But ever so
much more enriching and important is it to know
the birds as individuals; to find out, by watching
what they do, how, when, and why they do it.
Hang a doughnut by a string to a twig outside
your window or a pint tin of drippings, mixed with
bread crumbs and chopped nuts and raisins, into
which a stick has been inserted for a perch; or tack
a clean, firm piece of suet to a fence post or tree
trunk; or fill half an orange skin with rolled oats
rubbed with peanut butter; or crumble up some

. nice, greasy corn bread; and then watch your

feathered guests by the hour.

Have you “ever actually seen the third shutter—
like eyelid which birds use when they wink? Hang
around a poultry yard for this or visit a zoo, as it
is more easily seen in larger birds. At the same
time discover which eyelid a bird uses chiefly in
closing the eye.

Then proceed to find out how many toes birds
have and how they are placed on the perch. Com—
pare canaries with lovebirds for this. Owls have
a reversible toe so they can perch either way. It’s
a thrill to watch the owls in a 200 until you’ve
caught them in both positions—not too easy be-
cause so much of the time the body feathers con-
ceal the perch. The shape of birds’ feet and bills
as correlated with their manner of food-getting
and kind of food eaten is a fascinating study.

Find Out for Yourself!

For really exciting nature adventures let me
recommend you never to content yourself with a
passive acceptance of any scientific statement you
hear or read. Grab your hat and dash right out
and find out for yourself whether it is true or not!
Transform the dry, dead fact into a vivid, living
adventure for yourself.

One day I read in a nature book that the earth-
worm cannot progress on glass or ,other very
smooth surface upon which the setae (minute
bristles) cannot hold. “Ha,” thought I, “that
should interest the nature leaders to whom I am
to talk this afternoon.” I phoned one woman to
bring some earthworms and- another a sheet of
glass, and in due time I explained the fact I had
read and proceeded to demonstrate it. The glass
was placed on the floor in the center of the circle.
The earthworms were placed on the glass. Breath-
lessly we awaited their frustrated efforts to move
across _the glass. Picture our surprise and con—
sternation when every little earthworm “pro-

RECREATION

NATURE IS FUN! 621

gressed” with speed (“earthwormily” speaking)!
We thought it might be because some of the earth
in the can still clung to the worms, so an excited
delegation took them to the lavatory, washed the
worms and the glass perfectly clean of earth
(nearly lost them down the drain), and returned
in a definitely hilarious mood to the expectant
group. The clean, wet worms were placed on the
clean, wet glass and again progressed spryly.

Well, that was that! I wrote a merry, saucy
letter to the author and received a delightful letter
in reply confessing he had read his “fact” in an—
other book and had not experimented to prove or
disprove it. Anyway, we all agreed that even an
earthworm is exciting and interesting.

That wasn’t the end of my earthworm adven-
tures. I heard that in the state of Washington
‘ they have earthworms as large as lead pencils, and
when they want some for bait they don’t bother
to dig them but tickle them out of the ground
with a mild charge of electricity. Can you picture
my impatience to witness that? This was at Fort
Lewis before the war. A captain was dispatched
to borrow the proper gadgets—wtwo long steel
Spikes, each with a 50-foot wire attached to a plug
that could be screw-
ed into a socket. A
mere trifle of driz-
zling rain did not
deter us. With
coats over our heads
we poured out onto
the lawn, plugged
in the gadget,
'plunged the spikes,
into the ground a
short distance apart,
and waited with
bated breath. At
first I thought it
wasn’t going to
work, but after a
very few seconds a
great shout went up
when out of the
ground came wrig-
gling and squirming
and pouring more
earthworms than I
ever dreamed (even
after reading
Charles Darwin)
could inhabit a

MARCH 1945

 

square yard of lawn. Another time I lay prone on
the ground for an hour watching an earthworm eat
its way back into the ground. More fun!

Fun at the Seashore

If you live near the coast there are so many
more exciting things to do than just collect and
label pretty shells. Only once in my life have I
watched a starfish open and devour a clam, ex—
truding its pale, amber-colored jellylike stomach
into the clam’s Open shell, digesting the clam
there, and then withdrawing the stomach back
where it belongs. Adding insult to injury that
seemed to me!

Only once have I watched the entire process of
a crab shedding its shell. I have in my collection
this cast shell and the preserved and much larger
soft-shelled creature that emerged before my eyes.
Have you ever sat so quietly beside a tide pool
that you could watch a crab eat its dinner, picking -
bits of seaweed from the rocks and stuffing them
greedin into its mouth, first with one large claw,
then with the other? Ever fed a sea anemone with
bits of mussel meat and watched the sensitive tenta—
cles close over the choice morsel and crowd it down
into the cavity that
might be called its
5 t o m a c h? T w 0
pieces, or even four,
dropped at once are
conducive to con—
fusion for the anem—
one and heightened
interest for the on-
looker. '

Any time the tide
is low enough for
you to reach mus-
sels attached to the
rocks with tough
brown threads call-
ed “byssus,” you
can enjoy the inter—
esting experience of
watching a mussel
spin fresh byssus.
Cut the mussel
loose from the rock
with a sharp knife
and place it in a
basin of sea water.

(Continued on
page 670)

Photo by Edwin Way Teal:

“What's the Name of My Bird?"

THE PHONE RINGS and the family looks at me

expectantly.
“Go on, answer it, it’s for you,” they tell

me in sarcastic tones. “Someone’s seen a new

bird.”
I pick up the receiver.
“Is this the Bird Lady?”

“Yes,” I say cautiously, remembering the many
calls from waggish friends describing a bird with
the head of a dove, the body of a bobolink, and the

voice of a screech owl.

“I’ve just seen a new bird. No one around here
has ever seen one like it.” A triumphant pause.
“Yes?” I say encouragingly.

3

“Well, it’s about as big as a robin,’ and so on.
If my caller is at all observant I can usually fur-
nish the answer. The invariable comeback is, “Is
that what it is?” in joyful or disappointed tones,
depending upon whether the bird’s name is strange
or familiar to the questioner. Any bird with
“sparrow” attached to its name always receives a
dubious welcome. The casual observer does not
know that among our native sparrows are species
which are still being studied as to nesting habits,
food, breeding range, and other particulars.

Last year a new bird invaded the northern part
of Wisconsin where I live. This was the tufted
titmouse, a relative of our common chickadee. In
the South and West it is a common bird, and in
its natural range it extends northward to New
Jersey and across the country to Nebraska. For a
number of years it has been reported as a rare and
casual visitor in southern Wisconsin, but its ap-
pearance in Green Bay marked its first visit so far
north. Everyone at all interested in birds wanted
a glimpse of the little stranger with its pointed
crest, and the woman to whose feeding stand it
came daily was besieged with visitors.

During this excitement a friend called me, tell—
ing of her “new” bird. “It has a crest!” she told
me breathlessly, and then want on describing the

cedar waxwing so perfectly down to the last detail ,

that I thought she was “spoofing” and knew her
bird.

“Go on, Doris,” I told her. “You know what

that is.” “Oh, sure,” she said happily. “The

tufted titmouse.”

622

 

By CLARA HUSSONG
Green Bay. Wisconsin

Other Questions to Be Answered

The questions that come to me are not always of
the “what-bird-is-that” type. What to feed young
birds who have lost their parents, is one which
comes frequently. All parent birds, even the con-
firmed seed eaters, start their babies on a soft food
diet, insects and other bugs. If you can’t catch
enough flies, mosquitoes, or caterpillars, try
scrambled eggs, cottage cheese, and finely ground
meat.

For very young birds, everything must be finely
chopped. A fellow bird lover in this town raised a
nestful of young robins successfully by feeding
them chopped angleworms fried with scrambled
eggs.

Fixing up a,bird’s broken wing or leg is out of
my sphere and I refer my questioner to someone
who has had experience as a bird doctor. What to
feed caterpillars, emerging moths, and butterflies,
how to rid a house of clothes moths, cockroaches,
bats, and flying squirrels, and naming useful books
and types of field glasses are among the requests
for information that come my way. '

Even the crossword puzzle fans find me useful,
especially when it comes to Latin names of genera
or species. When my inquirer says, “No, no, it
must have nine letters, the second one ‘T’,” I

recognize the puzzle fan and cooperate heartily,
for I, too, like to fill in the squares.

RECREATION 1

“ll/HAT’S THE NAME OF MY BIRD I?” 623

Seasonal Calls
It is obvious that at cer-
tain seasons the calls are

others. Five or six years
ago when starlings first be-
came numerous around here,
everyone wanted to know
what the strange bird with
the short tail and yellow
bill might be. An inquirer
from a neighboring town
sent me a live starling in a
shoe box. I guessed what it
might be before opening the
box, and when I lifted the cover a little and saw
the oft—described long yellow bill poking out, my
suspicions were confirmed.

‘ Now starlings are as common as robins and
house sparrows, and even the children know them.
Incidentally, in a survey made by Owen Gromme
of the Milwaukee Museum to determine the spread
of the starling in the state, my report for the star—
ling in March, 1934, was the first- written record
of the bird for this area. I had lived here only a
short time, and the starlings had been here for a

 

"Springl summer. winter. tall—each has
more numerous than at its quota of adventures and thrills for those
who keep their eyes open for birds. The
sight of thousands upon thousands of
whistling swans like piled-up snow on the
sand bars of the bay is one thrill never to
be missed in April. Snow buntings execut-
ing their swirling dance in a January snow-
storm; blue herons poised motionless in
sun-heated shallow streams on a hot August
afternoon; wild geese sailing high at potato
picking time—all these and many more
are events which come every year."

number of years in scattered
Hocks, but no one had
thought to make a written
record of their first appear-
ance.

Some winters, evening
grosbeaks, wanderers from
western Canada, are very
numerous, and at those
times my phone rings all
day long. At such times I
am tempted to say “evening
grosbeak” without waiting
for a description of the
“new” bird.

Bird Club Organized

Five years ago, at the close of my first night
school nature study courses, we organized a bird
club. This is a misnomer because on our field
trips we study everything from earth stars to fish.
New members and visitors sometimes make the
mistake of appearing in high heels and “Sunday”
clothes, but they never make that error again!
Both sexes and all ages are represented in the club.

On our hikes the most studious of us have made

Wild Duck Reserve at Lake Merritt in Oakland. California

'5.

 

MARCH 1945

Courtesy Oakland, California, Recreation Department

624

it a habit to identify every bird, bush, flower, insect,
or other nature specimen we run across. Recently,
on one of these excursions, someone pointed to a
tree growing near a fence and asked what species
of pine it was. A careless glance showed me a red—.
dish trunk under the pine boughs. “Red pine,” I
answered promptly. To impress it upon my listen-
ers I walked to the tree, grasped a spray of needles

and began:
“White pine always has live needles in a cluster

and red has two.” I. stopped, for I saw that the
spray I held was not made up of the long flexible
needles of the red pine, but of the shorter spread-—
ing needles of the white. Puzzled, I looked again
at the trunk and discovered that what I had mis-
taken for the tree’s trunk was a cedar fence post,
“set under the tree and hiding its real trunk!

“That’s bad,” my questioner shook his head at
me. “It’s all right to name every bird and flower
and tree, but when you start on the fence posts,
that’s going too far.”

Nature Specialization

For the old-timer in nature study whose wonder
and curiosity may have become somewhat dulled,
specializing "in one group or order of plants, birds,
rocks, or any other branch, is a good way to re-
vive interest and keep the powers of observation
on the alert. The old familiar hunting grounds
become new fields again when you try to find all
the species of wild mints extant in your neighbor-
hood, or when you are taking a census of grasses
at the edge of town. Specializing brings back all
the thrills of the old days when discovering Nature
was like finding a new and wonderful land.

The summer I devoted to sparrows was an ex-
tremely happy one. For years I had known all the
common varieties: the song, field, chipping, fox,
veSper, tree, white-throated and white-crowned
sparrows, but when I began exploring the old
marshes and meadows edging the bay, I found
some of the lesser-known: savanna, clay-colored,
grasshopper, LeConte’s and Henslow’s sparrows.
I made no startling discoveries, but according to
Arthur A. Allen, I did accomplish sométhing
umque.

In his Book of Bird Life, Mr. Allen says he has
never known anyone to discover the Henslow’s
sparrow for himself. Because of the bird’s retiring
habits and weak song he is seldom noticed among
his noisier relatives of the grassy wastelands.

One early Spring day I sat under a clump of
dogwood listening to birds and watching them

“WHAT’S THE NAME OF MY BIRD f.”

crisscross in flight before me. Watching and wait-
ing is a better method than giving chase, as any
old hand in the game ‘will tell you. Suddenly a
small brownish bird, unmistakably a sparrow,
hopped on a twig only a few feet from me. Which
small sparrow has a greenish tinge around its
head and neck, I wondered. The bird book an-
swered, “Henslow’s.” Since then I’ve seen it sev-
eral times in its spring migration and have heard

it sing its peculiar hiccoughing song.

City Bird Watcher

In the spring, city parks, gardens and tree-lined
streets are as good for watching birds as country
spots. One of our local parks is a haven for mi-
grating birds, a sort of terminal where birds rest
and feed before continuing their journeys. In the
years I have been visiting the park, I have counted
ninety species of birds frequenting the place, which
is only two square blocks in size and is situated
right in town. .

While observing warblers there one day in Ma
I was more than usually up in the clouds, revelling
in the unbelievably beautiful shades of blue, green,
orange, and red that flashed all around me. Field
glasses screwed to my eyes, I chased one flaming
bit of color after another, not trying to identify
any of the dozen or more species, but simply
gloating over the amazing spectacle. The voice of
a park bench sitter brought me down to earth.

“Seen any birds?”

Are field glasses a necessity for bird study? No,
not if you have the time and patience to sit still for
long periods, until the birds come close enough for
you to note all their markings. Without field
glasses, by the time you have learned to know your
bird, you will have learned something of its song,
its food, and its flight habits as well as its appear-
ance. Glasses do help you to identify a bird much
more quickly but, speaking for myself, I know less
about the birds I met via field glasses than I do
about those I learned to know by the old watching
and waiting method. _

For the lone lady watcher, glasses sometimes

come in handy. Before I had time I used often I

to see a farmer stop his horses or his tractor when
he caught sight of me exploring the roadside or the
woodland near the field where he was working.
“What can she be doing?” he probably wondered.
Now when this happens I merely raise my glasses
and look up into the nearest tree, whether there is
a bird there or not, and the farmer promptly

(Continued on page 670)
RECREATION

A Schoolyard

, Sanctuary

By EDWIN WAY TEALE

schoolyard, six miles from Peekskill,

New York, a simple and interesting
idea is proving an eminent success. It is
a project that is applicable in thousands of
schoolyards throughout the country; an
idea of immense importance in the ad-
‘vancement of nature study and conserva—
tion. This idea is the development of a
miniature living museum and a woodland
sanctuary created by, for, and of the chil—

dren in the school.

The site of this miniature outdoor mu-
seum is on the edge of a wood that forms
the southern boundary of the schoolyard.
The rest of this timbered tract has been
left untouched, except for the cutting of
nature trails. It provides a natural sanctu-
ary for native forms, of Wildlife, contain-
ing feeding stations and bird houses.

Most of the work was done by the boys
and girls of -the third and fourth grades
under the direction of three teachers. At
first, when small parts of the underbrush
had to be cleared away where too dense
shade existed, boys of the sixth grade
helped out. The younger children then
added baskets of rich black loam, brought
. from the interior of the wood. Small
granite rocks were collected and used to
mark off trails that wind about through
the midget preserve. Violets, and other
woodland plants, soon were established in
the loam of the area. F

Work was begun in the fall, and a good
start had been achieved before winter set
in. Between autumn and spring, several
meetings were held to plan what should
be done when the snow melted and warm
weather arrived again, Nearly fifty chil-
dren 'from the third, fourth and sixth
grades took part in these meetings and
made their suggestions. Meanwhile, several

MARCH 1945‘

IN THE SOUTHWEST corner of a country

 

 

Photograph by Edwin W. Teale

A story of splendid accomplishment
by some school children who became
interested in developing a woodland
sanctuary and a miniature museum

 

 

Photograph by Edwin W. Teal:
625

626

of the boys were busy with saws
and sandpaper, wood-burning
instruments and varnish. In the
school’s woodworking shop, they
produced artistic signs to mark
the different species of trees
found within the confines of the sanctuary. In the
same shop, benches were produced from sticks and
from selected logs of birch.

To aid in the identiiication of plant and animal
life, addtional nature volumes were added to the
school library. By the time spring arrived, a sched-
ule of "‘Things to Do” had been worked out, with
the best time for doing each decided upon in
advance. One of the first jobs was putting up a
large sign reading: WILDLIFE SANCTUARY. It was
created from pieces of birch nailed to a wide board
that was hung by wires between two oak trees.

Since that day steady progress has been made.
Half a dozen bird houses, built by the children,
have been put in place among the branches of the
trees. New plants have been added to the sanctu-
ary collection—lady’s slippers, Jack-in-the-pulpits,

This story is reproduced through
the courtesy of Nature Magazine
and of the author. RECREATION is

greatly indebted to Mr. Teale for
permission to use his photographs.

A SCHOOLYARD SANCTUARY

wild geraniums, hepaticas, wild
columbines, wood anemones, rat-
tlesnake plants and various spe- _
cies of wood ferns. As the proj—
ect has advanced, interest has
spread outward from the school.
A local florist contributed needed birch logs, 'and
the community librarian suggested books that
would be helpful. Children talked about the sanctu-
ary at home and parents came to see it. Thus, the
older people of the community as well as the chil-
dren are being educated in the needs of conserva-
tion.

Within the area of the sanctuary, pairs of tow-
hees, scarlet tanagers, wrens and robins have built
their nests. The home life of the tanagers, which
the children could observe clearly by sitting on the
ground beneath one of the oak trees, provided a
living serial story that continued from day to day.
Another event in the sanctuary was the sudden ap-
pearance of thousands of winged ants from the de-
caying stump in which a colony had made its home.

Rabbits, chipmunks,‘gray squirrels and even a

   

‘ v ..  2*" " 
C M "‘ I” ‘. 1i a
, '3, .%§,s~ “m

~ )w 1  W!“ 3%: ’

. .I _: s” ‘- 7 1
  f; 1%,,  u ., i . 4,
 ' i - I ‘ " -.v x . I, ‘ .. ,'  _ . I

 

Photograph by Edwin W. Teak

RECREATION .

A SCHOOLYARD SANCTUARY 627

wild deer—which appeared at the
edge of the woods one autumn
day with its fawn—are among the
animals encountered. Wood frogs
and box turtles, tree frogs, garter
snakes and salamanders, have put
in an appearance from time to
time. One tortoise became a spe-
cial pet, occupying a terrarium in
the science room.

In numerous ways school work
and the sanctuary have been linked
together. In teaching science
study, instruction in natural his-
tory is largely based on the wild
life found in this fragment of
woodland and the timbered area
beyond.

Other classes than those in
science have derived benefit from
the schoolyard corner sanctuary.
English and drawing had their
day when the children of the
fourth grade produced a twenty-
two—page mimeographed book to
tell the story of the project. Called
“The Garden of Thrills,” it con-
tains drawings and descriptions
of the main flowers and birds
found in the preserve, a record
of the development of the idea,
original poems by the students,
and plans for the future. .,

All in all, this small area at the Putnam Valley
Central School has paid high dividends. The proj-
ect has been neither expensive nor difficult. It is
one that might be duplicated at almost any country
school. Few things would contribute more to the
cause of nature study than the swift spread of this
idea and the appearance of similar schoolyard
sanctuaries in all parts of Canada and the United

States.
In such a program are the fundamentals of con—-

servation a subject of vital importance.

Additional information on such nature labora—
tories as Mr. Teale describes is to be found in a
report by Reynold Carlson, who has the following
to say about school outdoor laboratories and other
phases of a nature program for children:

Schools have long recognized the need for first-
hand nature experiences for children as a part of
their education. School gardens, school camps,

MARCH 1945

 

   

./  v “'1

       

»~: ":25? ': ', -
43,,-

a -'
4 v ,
< .-.‘.I

 A I“, " : J”, 
Photograph by Edwin W. Teale

outdoor science and nature laboratories, and school
museums have been established. One of the sig-
nificant expansions in recent years has been that of
school forests and outdoor nature areas as a part
of the school program. In 1943 there were 84I
school forests reported in the United States. Wis-
consin, New York, and Michigan have led the way
in the acquisition of school forest lands. In Wis-
consin, cut-over, tax-delinquent land was acquired
by school boards and designated as school forest
land.

The school forests have generally served as il-
lustrations of forestry practice. In addition, in
many cases they are used as outdoor laboratories
for nature study by younger groups, and for the
study of botany, biology, entomology, and geology
by older students. Such areas also meet recrea-
tional needs by "providing spots for picnicking,
camping, fishing, swimming, and other outdoor
activities for community groups.

(Continued on page 671)

“The Wearin' o' the Green”

THE IRISH rightly t A date ever to be remembered and
ioyfully celebrated — March |7th.
’St. Patrick's Day

claim St. Patrick as

patron saint of their
country, and they delight
to honor his memory in .
the many ways to which we have all grown ac-
customed. Above all, they “wear the green.” A
sprig of shamrock worn conspicuously is the in-
signia of a true Irishman anywhere. There are
colorful parades in many places ; social affairs in
homes or places of public entertainment. They
talk about the good saint of Ireland who built
churches and converted the country to Christianity.
They know the legends of the home of their fore-
fathers and repeat them to their children.

The rest of us of other nationalities like so many
of the ways in which the sons of Erin celebrate St.
Patrick’s Day that we fall in and use green in our
party decorations and give St. Patrick’s Day almost
as much observance as the loyal Irishmen of our
community do. Here are a few suggestions for a

party.
Invitations

A shamrock, cut from either white or green
cardboard, may carry the message, or green St.
Patrick’s hats can be cut out and mounted on
white cards:

0, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., dear, and did you hear

The news that’s goin’ round,

We’re givin’ a party

For St. Patrick and his crowd
at

. . . . .. (Place) 
On . . . . . . .. (Date, time) . . . . . . ..

Decorations

Shamrocks, pipes, hats, and
snakes cut from green paper
and displayed about the party
room, dangling from the ceil—
ing, on walls, curtains, and
lampshades, give a festive air.
Jonquils or other spring flowers
may be used as a center piece
for the table, with green can-
dles stuck into candleholders
made from Irish potatoes.
Cardboard shamrocks may be
cut out and will serve as place

628

 

mats, or a white table-
cloth decorated with
gummed Irish cutouts,
bought at low cost from
any novelty store, would
be appropriate for the occasion.

Green, orange, and white are the usual colors
used in decorating for the St. Patrick’s Day party
room, with green predominating, of course. Small
Irish flags may be stuck into flower pots and used
as place cards by sticking a flag into a green gum
drop and fastening the gum drop to a plain white
card on which the name of the guest is printed in
green ink. Green crepe paper can be bought and
cut into streamers which may be twisted and hung

about the room. 
Games

/

Blarney Stone. It’s the famous Blarney Stone
that begins the fun. Players have to talk and act
quickly to avoid paying forfeits in this lively game.
The group is seated in a circle. A small stone, the
Blarney Stone, is passed around. As each person
receives it, he must wish aloud something for his
neighbor to do. At unexpected intervals the leader
blows a whistle. The unlucky person caught with
the Blarney Stone must execute the wish ex-
pressed by the neighbor who passed the stone to
him. You may look for some hilarious stunts if
the players are in the right mood for this game!

Play until six or eight have
performed.

Irish Sweepstakes. Players
are arranged in relay forma-
tion. In turn, they sweep a
small wooden stake to the goal
line with a broom or stick.

“ Upon returning to the starting
line, the next person in line is
given the broom” and stake.
Green candies make a suitable
prize for the winning team.

Shamrock Hunt. Hide many
little green paper shamrocks
about the room. On each one
letter a G or an S. When the
hunt is over, each person
counts the number of sham-

RECREATION

“THE IVEARIN’ 0’ THE GREEN” 629

rocks he has found. The one with the largest num-
ber is the winner. Now ask each player to count
the S’s or G’s and to form two teams, the Greens
and the Shamrocks for the next game.

Irish Bowling. Set up ten soft drink bottles in
bowling formation in front of both teams. Each
team appoints a scorekeeper. One point is scored
for each bottle overturned by a potato which is
rolled on the floor from a line 15 feet away. One
chance is given to each person. Scorers keep a
record of the total number of bottles knocked over,
and the winners receive a prize of homemade

potato candy.

Corl< Cargo. Divide the players into relay for—
mation. Give the first person two toothpicks, a
paper Dixie cup, and ten tiny corks. Give the
second person another paper cup. On the word to
begin, the first person lifts a cork from his cup to
number two’s cup by picking up the cork between
the toothpicks. This action is repeated until all of
the ten corks are passed to the next person. The
empty cup is now passed to the third person in
line, and the passing by toothpick process is re-
peated by the second person in each line. The relay
is over when the last person in line carries the
paper cup containing the ten corks to the front of
the line.

Buying Paddy's Pig. Give each person ten beans
and five small pig cutouts. Announce that the
players will have ten minutes to see who can get
the most beans and the most pigs by selling the
pigs for as many beans as possible, and buying
other pigs for as few beans as possible. Give a
pig bank to the winner.

Utensils for a Mulligan Stew. Divide the group
'into two lines by having them count off, the one’s
forming one line and the two’s forming the other.
Place a chair at the end of each line. The first
person of each line is given a pie pan with one of
each of the following articles: tablespoon, salt
shaker, small strainer, egg beater, teaspoon, and
an individual pie pan. At a signal, the articles are
passed, one at a time, to the other end of the line.
Each player’s hand must touch each article and the
next article is not started until the preceding one
gets to the end person, who places it on the chair
beside him. After all articles have reached the end,
the last player immediately starts the articles back
to the leader. The side wins which gets all the
articles back to the leader first.

MARCH 1945

  

»

Print by Gedge H armon

v4;

Shamrock Contest. Give each contestant a green
paper and a pencil, and give a prize for the best
man or animal made by using Shamrocks for the
bodies, legs, arms, and heads.

Irish Words. Prepare as many slips containing a
letter of the alphabet as there are players and add
an extra set of vowels for each alphabet. Separate
alphabets are on different colored paper or are
written in different colors. Each player may be
provided with a blank card. A letter slip is pinned
on each player. Four or more players link arms
to form a word, which must relate to the day
(Irish, Saint, pig, etc.), and go to the group
leader who writes the word on the card of each
member of the word. They then disperse to form
other words. Players in each alphabet group work
together and the group wins which has the highest
total of eligible words.

A St. Patrick’s Menu

Shamrock Sandwiches (Cream cheese colored

with green, spread on bread cut in shape of sham—
rock)

Irish Crisps (Potato chips)
- Green Delights (Olives and pickles)

Patty’s Cupcakes (Chocolate cupcakes with green
frosting topped with a tiny Irish flag)

Pistachio Ice Cream
Mint Tea

  
    

m ~' .;"  .,
Photo by Reynold

HE TODDLER reaches out chubby arms to em-

brace his dog or cat. The old man sits quietly

by the fireside with his dog curled at his feet.
For them and for all the ages between pets afford
pleasure, companionship, and love far out of pro-
portion to the troubles involved in their care. Few
indeed are those persons to whom the possession
of a pet—be it dog, cat, bird, wild creature, or even
unresponsive goldfish—does not bring an enrich-
ment of life and a greater understanding of
nature’s ways.

For the child particularly is pet ownership im-
portant. The child who has never had a pet has
missed one of the great opportunities for learning
which can come from caring for, playing with, and
watching animals; he has missed the solemn re-
sponsibility of having another living creature de-
pendent upon his care; and he has missed one of
the keenest joys of childhood.

What Animals Make Good Pets?

Dogs and Cats. It is said that historically the
longest close unbroken relationships between man

630

  

. s ’* ' "  a,
‘ .
l ‘ '7 I I > A ’i “
i .‘ r  - t __ A. ., _‘
\ a i J
‘ 

E. Carlson

Pets
in the Home

By REYNOLD E. CARLSON
‘National Recreation Association

and animals have been between man and
his dog and man and his horse. While the
horse has been used primarily to help man
with his work and as a means of transpor-
tation, the dog has usually been man’s
companion primarily because of the per-
sonal satisfaction man has received from
that relationship. The dog has flattered
man’s vanity and has been more able than
any other animal to adjust himself to the
ways of man, forsaking his own kind to
enter man’s household. He has given not
only companionship but also partnership
in play. “A man’s best friend is his dog”
may not be literally true, but the loyalty,
affection and understanding that many
dogs demonstrate have made the dog the
most universally appreciated pet in the
animal kingdom.

Though the cat, too, has always been a favorite
home pet, it has not given man the flattering at-
tention he has received from the dog. Beautiful to
look at and pleasant to caress, the cat has, in man’s
belief at least, merely tolerated him as the source
of food and shelter. There is seldom the sympa-
thetic understanding between cat and man as be-
tween dog and man. The cat receives attention ;
the dog both gives and receives it.

Farmyard Animals. Many farmyard animals and
dwellers of woods and fields make excellent and
interesting pets. “When is such an animal a pet?”
might well be asked. When we achieve a personal
relationship with an animal which gives satisfac-
tion without ulterior motives, that animal may be
called‘a pet. Ducks, geese, chickens, rabbits, sheep,
calves, and even pigs have attained the status of
pets. '

One of my pleasant memories is of a young pig
that became a camp pet. In the region of our camp
a number of escaped pigs had “gone wild.” Some
of the older campers discovered a sow with a litter
of young. After hours of pursuit, they captured

RECREATION

PETS IN THE HOME 631

one of the young and brought it back to camp.
Within a few days the piglet was following at the
heels of the boy in whose care he had been placed,
and even at evening campfire programs and out—
door religious services he was close at hand. At
the end of the camp season the pig had to be left
behind in the hands of a farmer, but such affection
had been aroused by that clowning porker pet that
there were tears in the eyes of the boys in parting.

Wild Animals. Of the wild animals there are
many theft make admirable pets, provided the
owner properly understands their capabilities. He
must not expect virtues in wild animals which they
do not possess. Particularly he must take care not
to mix certain animals that through generations of
wild life have been natural enemies. Even though
there are a few cases where the animals may be—
come friends, generally it is impossible.

Wild animals taken while young may make good
pets, whereas adults of the same Species seldom
attain that distinction. In selecting young animals
it is important that theyobe old enough to survive
without their mother’s care, and yet young enough
to adjust to the new situation.

In many cases wild animals may attain the

status of pets without ever being touched or con- -

fined by men. Such is the case, for example, with
some of our squirrels, who may adjust themselves
to us in our backyards and parks, losing their fear
sufficiently to take food from our hands and giving
us the opportunity to watch them close at

hand. Such pets are generally better off
when free to come and go.

Some of the mammals listed below have
made good pets where conditions for pro—
per care were available.

Red squirrels. These squirrels tend to
be nervous and excitable. i

Gray squirrels. Less nervous than the

red squirrels, these respond well to out-
door “taming.”

Flylng squirrels. Because of their noc-
turnal habits these squirrels do not fur-
nish daytime amusement. They are, how-
ever, extremely interesting animals.

Mice. White-footed and meadow mice
are often kept in captivity.

Raccoons. Young raccoons make excel-
lent pets, but-because of great activity and

thieving habits they cannot be allowed the
run of the house.

MARCH 1945

Skmzks. Contrary to common belief, skunks
make fine pets. If the scent glands are removed,
skunks may have the run of the house much like
cats. Home-raised skunks may be kept without
the removal of scent glands. However, accidents
might happen if the animals are suddenly fright-
ened.

Woodclmcks. Raised from babyhood, wood—
chucks are good pets. They seem to enjoy handling.

Birds. While canaries, love birds, and parrots
are the most usual pets among the birds, there are
other possibilities in the bird world, particularly
if the pet “owner” does not insist upon keeping his
pet in captivity and is content to have "him in his
yard.

Birds combine beauty of feather, form, and song,
with grace of movement.‘ In addition, most birds
have economic value as destroyers of noxious in-
sects and weed seeds. As a result, most of our r
wild birds are strictly protected by state and fed-
eral laws which prohibit killing, trapping, or keep-
ing them in captivity.

Though most of our birds cannot be kept as,
captives, birds can be attracted to homes through
judicious plantings, feeding trays, and nesting
devices, even in our largeskities. Nesting boxes

( Continued on page (264)

Young 'coons make fine pets. But
watch out for their thieving ways.

 

Photo by Reynold E. Carlson

Honors to a Recreation Park

TANLEY PARK in W'estfield,

Massachusetts, has received

for the second consecutive year one of the
coveted plaques awarded by the National Victory
Garden Institute of New York to industrial and
other organizations throughout the country which
contributed vitally to the Victory Garden program.
Stanley Park bows in grateful acknowledgement of
this national honor.

Yet this forty-acre park didn’t start out to be the
"common or garden variety,” though it has been
glad to step out of character for the duration to aid
in the war effort. For this divertisement, the
eighteen acres of cleared land which had been ap—

By OLIVE PEARSON RICE

ball fields, tennis courts, horse—
shoes, dance floor, playground.
and what not, were' all ploughed under when
Uncle Sam called for help for his food program,
and these acres have been nony bearing fruit, or
rather vegetables, for the market baskets of the
townsfolk. ,
Comparativer new, this park, which has twenty-
two acres of forest including thirty—five varieties of
trees, a holly dingle, a lake, and the “Enchanted
Oak” with its encircling grove is a project of
Frank Stanley Beveridge, president of the Stanley
Home Products, Inc., of Westfleld. Its purpose is
to provide recreation facilities for the 5,000 dealers

when they visit the
home ofFlce from all

portioned for a bowling
green, football and base-

"Happy voices of the employees and their families
rise spontaneously from the boats on the lake"

 

632 RECREATION

HONORS TO A RECREATION PARK 633

over these United States, and
for the hundreds of local em—
ployees in their free time.
Parties galore have been
staged in its dells, and the
happy voices of the employees serve
and their families rise spon-
taneously from the picnic
grove with its fireplaces, and

from the boats on the lake, to .
greet the stars. Construction of an open air amphi—
theater to accommodate a thousand peOple had to
be dropped when bombs fell on Pearl Harbor, but
the silviculture around the area is shaping up and
the structure will come into rapid completion with
the cessation of hostilities abroad. When the park
is ready, its facilities will be thrown Open to the
public at large so that groups, organizations, and
institutions may avail themselves of the park privi-
leges for recreational and educational purposes.

:Mr. Beveridge is a great lover of flowers and
nature as a whole, and some years ago had a green-
house erected on his business acreage to provide
an abundant supply of cut flowers and flowering
_ plants for the' offices and for certain special occa—
sions in the town. In charge of this he placed an
expert horticulturist who, with the aid of two as-
sistants, not only keeps the flowers and plants
blooming the year around, but produced 10,000
tomato and 5,000 pepper plants from seed in the
hothouse, and between 4,000 and 5,000 cauliflower
and cabbage plants designed to supply both the
factory’s Victory Garden and the 148 individual
Victory Gardens of the employees.

employees

The employees’ Victory Gardens, which took
up every available bit of land around the several
factory buildings, flourished, and the eighteen
acre recreation - park - company -. garden produced
abundant yields of tomatoes, potatoes, cabbage,
corn, beans, cauliflower and peppers, among other
things.

What about the manpower shortage in such an
undertaking? Volunteers were recruited from the
factories to work in the factories’ recreation park
fields during the growing seasons, instead of at
their inside work. Came the harvest moon, and
the company proudly held a Victory Harvest F es—
tival at which prizes were awarded. Deserving of
honorable mention among the contestants was one
woman worker over sixty years old who won

twenty-six prizes and over $75 in cash for her bit
in the war effort!

Stanley Park came into being as a direct out-

MARCH 1945

Stanley Park in Westtield. Massachu-

setts, for the second time has won na-
tional honors for its contribution to the
war effort through the cultivation of
Victory Gardens. After the war it will
of Stanley
Products. lnc.. and townspeople as well'
with a greatly expanded program.

growth of Mr. Beveridge’s
business policy. Business is a
means of helping people, Mr.
Beveridge explains, and the
more helpful he has tried to
be the more success has come
to him. In less than fourteen
years his brush business has
expanded from an old tobacco
shed in 1931 to its several
humming factories of today which are partially
engaged in war work, making bronze brushes for
.50 calibre guns. These are used to clean the bar-
rels of Thompson sub—machine guns.

Again his fine business policy functions in his
postwar plans, for of the 100 men from the fac-
tories and the fifty men from the field in the armed
forces, -every man’s job awaits his return. This
promise was given long before Uncle Sam made
the matter obligatory. Furthermore, the men who
will be replaced by the returning veterans after,
and during, the war, will all be kept on in the
company, and some of them plan to go to work in
the park project which will then begin to swing
into its full stride. "

When the peace is won and the brave men
return to civilian life, then the Stanley Park Vic—
tory Gardens will doff their war dungarees and
become again a reservation for various recreations
and sports. This year the ground where the amphi—
theater is being developed will be reseeded and
arbor vitae planted on each side. In the rear will
rise graceful Lombardy poplars. This amphithea-
ter space, cleared in the midst of the woods, is
lovely even now as the sunshine comes filtering
through the oaks, ibirches, and pines. The forest
and parkway is a rendezvous for a great variety
of birds and other wild life. In the springtime the
forest floor is covered with a colorful assortment
of wildflowers, including the pink and yellow
orchids.

Already paths, named for various zones, have
been laid out through the woods. For instance,
there is the Texas Trail, fashioned after southern
trails, which winds its way past the holly dingle
where grows the holly tree sent on from Trenton.
The tree is carefully covered in winter and comes
through beautifully in spite of the general opinion,
“it can’t be done.” Other trees and shrubs such
as thorn apple, swamp pink, and laurel give variety

to the trail. The park maintains its own tree
nursery.

Home

(Continued on page 667)

Nature Recreation

5 PARK ORGANIZATIONS, we have always stood
for joy and relaxation, both of which were

services of inestimable value to our commu-
nities. This promotion of physical and mental
health will and must always be one of our prime
concerns. However, in order to base these upon a
lasting foundation, we must offer our citizens op-
portunities for nature education. The recent de-
pression showed us that we as a people had relied
very much upon what might be called “man-made
recreation.” Golf balls, transportation 'to the links,
tennis balls, stringing of tennis rackets, admission
fees for movies, theaters and concerts, purchase of
wood, metals, paints, wools for craft work had
suddenly become financially impossible and we
were left high and dry.
There are some resources which no depression
can take from us. No depression can deprive us

of our trees and flowers, insects, birds, sunsets,
stars, and storms. To thoroughly enjoy and appre-
ciate these one must be intelligent about the mar-
vels of nature they demonstrate and represent. We
must, therefore, help our youth and adults to view
the beauties and wonders all about, not only in a
sentimental manner but with intelligent apprecia-
tion. It is the latter that gives the deep and lasting
joy.

Our national parks are setting a grand example
in this field of education. Many local park systems
have made most commendable beginnings along
this line. However, we are all agreed that we still
have a far way to go to meet all the possibilities
open to us through maximum and new uses of
our facilities.

It is we who control the facilities which can
bring this joy through nature into the life of

 

Courtesy Oglebay I mum

"There are some resources which no depression can take from us"

634

RECREATION

NATURE RECREATION 635

America. A serious responsi-
bility rests upon us. We must
evolve a program of nature
activities and of cooperation
with other educational and
recreational agencies.

Contacts with Nature

We must re-establish the
contact between our people and nature: re-estab-
lish because to our forefathers nature was a close
ally. Primitive man was totally dependent upon
nature. It was very necessary that he know the
habitat and ways of beast, bird and fish. He was
dependent upon them not only for food; their hides
and feathers gave him clothing, shelter and cover-
ing ; their bones provided weapons and household
implements.

Through his knowledge of clay he was able to
meet his household needs of pottery. Knowledge
of rocks and minerals provided weapons, tools,
household utensils. Reeds, willows, grasses and
fibers provided mats and baskets. Hemp, cotton,
wool were fashioned into fibers and woven into
fabrics on crude looms. Nature supplied the dyes.
Designs for pottery, fabric, and other materials
were nature-inspired. Plants were cultivated for
food. Herbs, leaves, barks, blossoms were known
for medicinal values.

Much of these nature contacts figured also in
the lives of our forefathers. They, too, hunted and
raised their own fish and meat and knew the proc—-
esses of preserving them. The woods were known
to them for berries, fruit, herbs and medicinal
plants. Homespun and home-dyed fabrics were
one of the many arts and crafts of the housewife.
Yes, our rural forebears, being dependent upon
nature, knew not only its resources but its laws.

The machine, household appliances, highly
mechanized and organized life have stepped be-
tween us and nature. We are ignorant of its phe-
nomena and laws. Be that as it may, the phenomena
and laws still exist. Most of our economic, social
and physical ills are results of our having disre-
garded or sinned against some law of nature. What
joy, what inspiration, what spiritual values have
been lost as a result! It is within our power as
park folk at least to partially atone for these lost
practical contacts with nature by substituting in
their place educational and recreational nature
activities.

To tell in detail how to accomplish this would
necessitate a textbook or series of textbooks of no
mean volume. In fact, there already exists a

MARCH 1945

The report, which is reprinted by permis—
sion from the September-October. I944,
issue of Parks and Recreation, was
signed by Franlt T. Garside. General
Chairman of the Educational Committee,
George L.ChesleyI Major Raymond Hoyt.
Jerome C. Dret'zltal Chairman of the
Sub-Committee. and Dorothy Enderis.

steadily growing literature on
the subject. The best this
report can do is to enumerate
activities to promote this aim.

Various Park Areas
and Features

Our parks must have areas
of different types for different aims.

I. There must be areas and conservatories enjoyed
for their horticultural beauty.

2. If possible there should be a zoological garden.

3. There should be play areas.

4. There should by all means be reserved, no mat-t
ter how small in area, a section in which nature
has not been disturbed by man’s handwork.

5. While every one of these park sections should
have their educational values emphasized, there
should be in addition to them what one might
term special educational facilities—field houses
for meetings, trailside museums, fireside coun—
cil rings for outdoor day and evening gather-
ings, observatories for informal star gazing and
formal astronomy study.

Every park system has its beauty areas. They
were our traditional beginning. Many systems have
zoos. It is sincerely hoped that all systems have
outgrown the “keep off the grass” stage and made
areas available for swimming, play and active
picnics.

The peasant homes in Bavaria have a, tradi-
tional corner in the living room with a simple
altar, generally only a shelf on, which is a crude
crucifix and a candle or two with a holy picture
on the wall above them. This corner is known as
the “Herr Gott’s Ecke” or “God’s Corner.” Not all
our park systems have seen the value of Section 4
of the list suggested—a section which might be
likened to the Herr Gott’s Ecke of the Bavarian
home—a plot sacred to nature. Section 5 is where
we are ‘all jound wanting. In sections four and five
lie the great challenges of our future programs.

Following is a list of suggested possibilities for
a practical, popular educational park program:

Nature trails — marked with simple, short,
easily legible markers.

Trailside museums —- any type, from glass-
covered bulletin boards or glass cases out in the
open to three~sided shelters with shelves, tables,
bulletin boards, and provision for wall specimens.
Exhibits should at all times have interesting
labels. They should not always be definitely in-
formative, but should occasionally take the form

636 NATURE RECREATION

of questions or suggestions provoking research,
thought and discussion.

Lists (in several prominent locations in the
park)—of every type of tree and shrub found
in the park, each type having its individual
number and several fine examples of the same
tagged with this respective number. The same
should be done with plants and fiowers, whether
they be cultured or wild. It would be well to
prefix the numbers of the plants and flowers
with the letter “P,” so that they will not be
confused with the tree and bush markers.

Special groups —— tree associations, Shakes»
peare gardens,
kitchen herb gar-
dens, medicinal
and pharmaceuti-
cal gardens, gar-
dens of herbs and
plants used by the
Indians. Again
these should be
enhanced by in—
teresting, in-
formative labels.

Nature sketch-
ing and modelling
classes—conduct—
ed with the co-
operation of the
public schools and
art schools.

Evening Activities

Most of our park
activities take place during the
day time. If we are to reach
the greatest possible number of
peOple we must add evening activities to our
program. To best fill this need necessitates a
field house. Much can be done, however, along
the line of talks and lectures in a very intimate
and charming way at a camp fire surrounded by a
rustic council ring.

This need for evening gatherings might be met
by using the bandstands which almost all parks
have in various forms, from the traditional cov-
ered stand to the more elaborate band shell. The
use of these structures has been more or less
limited to musical and dramatic events. While this
type of park activity scarcely fits into a nature
recreation program, it still can be made of decided
value for their promotion. There is no reason why

 

Every park should have its trail-
side museums with exhibits marked
with clear and interesting labels

these bandstands cannot be used for nature lectures
and nature motion pictures.

How many of us use our concert audience for
park promotion? To allow a park concert or
opera to pass without telling the hundreds of peo-
ple of the audience something about the park
system or interesting seasonal features is to miss
a great opportunity. Many of these concert goers
have no other interests in the park system’s pro-
gram features because they are not aware of their
existence.

Extension Activities

Park Activities should leave the confines of the
park and go out to
the people instead
of depending upon
the pe0ple coming
to them. Invitations
for lectures, exhibits
and demonstrations,
showing of motion
pictures of park ac-
tivities should. be
sought from schools,
churches, clubs,
luncheon clubs,
civic associations,
etc. Such engage-
ments are Splendid
promotional as well
as educational ven-
tures. It pays to
keep the citizenry
informed and en-
lightened.

Field Houses

A field house could be the
meeting place for children and adults with varied
nature interest. Such a house should have a
lecture room with a seating capacity for about I 50,
with motion picture equipment, simple stage, pho-
tography developing room, lapidary laboratory.
Such a building would serve nature clubs, garden
clubs, zoological clubs, astronomy clubs, geology
clubs, botany clubs, nature camera groups: lapi-
dary clubs, nature motion picture nights, children’s
story hour, special nature lectures, musical eve-
nings of nature songs and phonograph records of
compositions based on nature themes, evenings
with nature poets and authors, either as reading
groups or personal appearances.

Such field houses would be greatly enhanced by

_-RECREATION

NATURE RECREATION

a library of nature books and periodicals. The
field house should have an exhibit room for sea-
sonal and occasional exhibits gathered and ar-
ranged by the various groups meeting at the park.

Publicity Sales Materials

Ink is a good investment. Bulletins, be they a
single mimeographed sheet or a commercially
printed pamphlet, can greatly promote a park’s
educational program. The most valuable publica-
tions are not those which are simply narrative or
descriptive, but are those which serve as guide
outlines or research prOmoters for trips through
the park. Visitors and picnickers would enjoy
being handed a simple mimeographed slip sending

them out on a tree hunt, a Hower trail, or treasure.

hunt. A simple outline map of the park with stars
showing the location of interesting features worth
seeing, without telling what they are, are bound to
arouse curiosity. Labels should give the story.
Such mimeographed material should be written in
catchy manner to arouse curiosity.

Attractive postcards of park views and features
are Splendid publicity agents. Paper weights, key
rings, charms, etc., of zoo animals are often very
welcome to visitors who desire to carry away a
rememberance. Small framed pictures of fiowers,
trees, nature scenes are silent teachers. Such sales
material can be made the source of income, but
even though there be no financial gain connected
with them, the publicity they give the park would
be remuneration in itself.

Park History and Interest Spots

The past history of the land comprising the park
area or areas should be obtained back as far as
possible and made available to the public through
leaflets, bulletin boards, or both. Many farms
purchased were at one time or another the home
of interesting old settlers, were the scene of inter-
esting events—Indian experiences, war events,
historic happenings. How many visitors to Chi-
cago’s Lincoln Park know that a portion of the
park area was once a cemetery on the outskirts of
Chicago.

When purchasing farms for park purpose, we
unthinkineg raze all buildings on the same, not
having in mind that many modern children and
even grown-ups have never seen a barn, a corn
crib, a mill, a well, a pump or trough. Preserva-
tion of these should figure in an educational park
program.

MARCH 1945

' 637

The history and background of the name of the
park should be ascertained in detail and form a
part of the park’s educational program. This is
especially true if the park is named after an in—
dividual. Should there be statues or monuments
in the park, they likewise should have their story
on record—name of the sculptor or designer, oc-
casion for its erection, financing or donor, ma—
terials used and source of the same, biography of
individuals involved, or story of the event com-
memorated.

Zoo Activities

A 200 should be more than a collection of ani-
mals interesting to watch especially at feeding time.
Again labels have a definite mission. They should
tell more than just the name of whatever may hap—
pen to be in the reSpective cages.

Conducted zoo lecture tours at stated hours,
special lectures on interesting specimens could be
given in the zoo lobby or special lecture room both
during the day and at night. There might also be

1. Special performances at stated hours by any
trained animals that might be members of the,
zoo

Barnyard zoos for benighted city folks
Traveling zoos or barnyards to city playgrounds
Zoological societies

cit-99°.»

. Children’s zoo clubs

Camping

One of our greatest opportunities for promoting
nature recreation is presented by facilities for
overnight and week-end camping.

This is truly bringing individuals in touch with
nature. The starry night, the morning dawn do
not feature in the life of the average city boy and
girl. Add to a full day and a night of contact with
nature the social values of group living, and you
have an experience which is difficult to equal
through any other medium.

A simple hut with indoor fireplace for inclement
weather and winter camping, an outdoor fireplace
for cooking, a good water supply, and sanitary
toilet facilities are the physical requisites. There
should be cots, if possible blankets, dishes and a
simple equipment of cooking utensils. Facilities
for twenty is the ideal size. Over and above
equipment and facilities, stand regulations that
groups who are granted permission to use the same
always come under reliable adult leadership.

638 ' NATURE RECREATION

Returned Servicemen

The thousands of young men who are now in
the armed forces have had physical training and
sports, forming a very vital part of their program.
They have learned the values and the joys of these
‘activities, and will have a desire to continue them
in one way or another after their return to civilian
life. Who can better satisfy this desire than we
park people with our play areas, ball fields, links,
swimming pools, and game courts of various types.
We must provide opportunity for all types of sports
and games, from the very strenuous to the less
strenuous, according to the desires and interests
of the players. Our men as a whole are returning
in finer physical condition than they left, and it is
up to us to provide for them the opportunities to
so keep themselves.

Rehabilitation of Servicemen

There will, on the other hand, be some who will
return in a less fortunate physical condition. They
will have much leisure time on their hands which
can either be invested for joy and physical profit
or can become a bore and nervous irritant. What
can be a better source of relaxation than a pro-
gram of nature activities? What can be a better
nerve restorative than a park with its fresh air and
its beauty, providing the same is manned with
friendly and understanding workers, and facilities
to occupy their hands and minds.

Retired Citizens

A new group of park constituents is making
itself felt more and more, namely, the retired citi-
zens. Labor legislation is increasingly dictating to
workers a retirement age, which in many places
has already dropped to 60 years, with an even

younger age in the offing. We as park people have'

wonderful opportunities to make the years of re-
tirement years of contentment, joy, and democra-
tizing fellowship. It hardly need be mentioned that
the type of activity for this group will needs be of
a passive nature, requiring an inviting game and
reading room for inclement weather, and an out-
side gathering place for sunny days. This group
will have to be in our thinking when planning
grounds and buildings. Stairs must be kept at a
minimum, and ramps with easy incline provided. '

Conservation

Your committee has a firm conviction that an
1nteresting program of nature recreation activities

can be made the source of great leisure time joy.
In addition, it will bring with it mental, spiritual,
social and civic values. Outstanding among the
latter stands the matter of conservation. We preach
conservation, we make the teaching of it in our
schools obligatory by law in some states.

To conserve means to protect. One is not apt
to protect that for which he has no special love.
One is not apt to love that which he does not know
or understand. To know and to understand nature
is bound to result in love and admiration for it.
Therefore, our safest promotion of conservation is
to bring our boys and girls into close contact with
nature at the very earliest age and all through their
school and their leisure time life. A by-product of
this conservation interest is very apt to be a greater
respect for and conservation of park property,
something devoutly to be wished.

Your committee realizes that this report contains
many what’s and why’s and few or no how’s. As
mentioned before, help regarding the latter can
readily be obtained through study and reading.

Future Aims

Our hOpe is that this report will spur us on to
greater efforts to so construct our parks and so
conduct our programs that we may have to our
credit many seeing eyes, listening ears, under-
standing minds and hearts, individuals more closely
in tune with the Infinite because of what our parks
have offered in nature recreation activities.

NOTE: This report of the sub-committee on Pub-
lic Education and Interpretation of the Educa-
tional Committee of the American Institute of
Park Executives was presented at the convention
held in Indianapolis September 25, 1944. The
original report was written by Dorothy Enderis,
Director of Municipal Recreation and Adult Edu-
cation, Milwaukee Public Schools. It was then sub-
mitted to the other members of the sub-committee
who gave their suggestions. The final report is
therefore the result of the thinking of the entire
committee. Opinion was expressed at the conven-
tion that the report constituted a most effective
summing up of the desirable educational and inter-
pretative park programs. It was approved by the
sub-committee and will receive further study by
the Executive Committee of the Institute.

RECREATION

Victory Gardens—1944 Model

H PEED THE PLOW across the field. Break the

S sod and sow the seed.” Here’s good advice

to Victory-Gardeners—with-a—Plan, if it can

be followed. And following it was the problem for

the 1944 Victory Garden Committee of Oak Park,
Illinois. .

The Committee had a plan. The plan called for
bettering 1943’s record of food grown; to get every
vacant lot in town sown in vegetables. If the plan
was to be successful, people had to get plenty of
seed and plants in the ground early in the season.
Before the seed and plants could be put in the
earth, the land had to be plowed and cultivated?
There was the rub!

In 1943, the Victory Garden Committee (com-
posed of members of the Park‘Board, the local
Garden Clubs, the Chamber of Commerce, the
local press, the Public Service Company, inter-
ested people in the community) had hired a farmer
to prepare the available ground,for gardeners. But
farmers.‘have their own jobs to do and the com-
munity victory garden suffered perforce. The Com-
mittee, meeting early in the spring of 1944, wracked
its collective brain to see what could be done. The
Park Board had an old Fordson tractor, but it
wouldn’t carry a plow so it didn’t help matters
much. However. the same Board needed a new
tractor for its own use and agreed to buy one if
WPB would grant the priority. WPB did, and by
April a new tractor with plow attached was ready
to go to work.

Five hundred and twenty-seven vacant lots,
25’ x 125’, were made ready. On them 1,190
families went to work. What’s more they kept at
it! All of them did a real job on those strips of
land. Nor was that all. In addition to the com-
munity gardens there were 3,482 backyard gardens
worked by individuals or by families for their own
satisfaction and on their Own initiative. Each of
these individual plots averaged about 15’ x 20’ in
size. These figures are no guesswork, either, be-
cause each one of those gardens was registered!

Registration of the individual gardens was part
Of the Committee’s plan for the year, but it looked
at first like one of those Herculean tasks best left
unattempted. Time, after all, was at a premium,
and it would take time to get the data necessary
for registration. But Yankee ingenuity is still very
much alive in these United States, and this was a

MARCH 1945

 
     

i\\\
4.;

Print by Gedge Harmon

 

By KARL F. JOHNSON

Superintendent of Parks
Oak Park. Illinois

real community-wide project. Somebody had the
bright idea that every home in Oak Park had a
water meter which was read periodically. Why
couldn’t the Water Department readers register the
gardens when they read the meters? They could.
They did. They did a good, accurate job of it.

Then Came the Festival

By early June the Victory Garden program was
in full swing. Early vegetables were coming in and
pests were rearing their ugly, heads and being con-
quered by eternal vigilance. The Committee began
to make plans for a Victory Garden Fall Festival.
The Festival’s dates were set for September 8 and
9. The place for its holding was to be one of the
school gymnasiums. Gardeners were urged to
grow one or two exhibition vegetables. Flowers,
too, were placed on the exhibition list—both speci-
men blooms and arrangements. Ribbon awards
(blue, red, yellow, white) would be made. There
would be a Junior Exhibit in which individuals or
youth groups could exhibit and receive awards.

(Continued on page 666)

639

N FEBRUARY 4,
O 1945 the National
Recreation Asso—
ciation andthe whole rec-
reation movement lost a
good friend in the death
of HERBERT LEE PRATT.
In the early days of
the Association Mr.
Pratt was one of the na—
tionally known business
leaders who believed in
and helped to finance
the National Recreation
Association. Herbert
Pratt was a generous
contributor for thirty-
Iive years. He not only
gave generously himself,
but took delight in en—
listing the interest of his
friends. As the Associa-
tion’s sponsor in New
York City for a number
of years, he greatly en-
larged the Association’s support.

As President and later Chairman of the Board
of the Standard Oil Company in New York, Mr.
Pratt’s statements in behalf of recreation carried
great weight. On one occasion Mr. Pratt wrote:
“One .has but to drive through our cities and coun-
tryside to see the wonderful development of parks
and playgrounds which have been laid out during
the past three years. . . . I repeat again that I
believe much, if not all, of the incentive which
brought about those developments, was furnished
by the Playground and Recreation Association,
which was followed by the National Recreation
Association. . . .”

Some years later after Mr. Pratt had retired
from active leadership in business, he signed the
following statement in answer to a question that
had been asked him as to the relative importance
of teaching young people to work:

“The question has been raised as to whether the
increasing number of recreation facilities are desir-
able. One man asked me recently whether we should
not emphasize more strongly teaching young peOple
to work rather than giving so much time to recreation.
I replied to this man, that although I go around New
York and other cities and see more parks and play—

640

 

grounds than I do factor-
ies, and although we may
think we do not like it, yet
we have got to remember
that recreation is here to

stay. We are living in a
new order. Life is not all
work: neither is recreation
unimportant. The fact is,
recreation is going to have
an increasingly important
place. What we need to
remember is that sound
play habits are just as im—
portant for living as sound
work habits. I think we
ought to realize that sound
work habits can be taught
along with sound play
habits. Our young men and
women should be giving
thought and time to the
problem of how to utilize
parks and playgrounds and
‘ other recreation facilities
to make better citizens.”

Herbert L. Pratt was
also deeply interested in
education, especially
physical education, serving on the Board of Spring—
field College and Amherst. He and Joseph Lee
worked together in securing funds for Springfield
College. He believed deeply in the contribution to
physical education research which Dr. James H.

McCurdy of Springfield College and also the Board
of Directors of the National Recreation Association

were carrying on.
Herbert Pratt believed himself in obtaining a

full measure of joy out of life. He was deeply in-
terested in the outdoors—in hunting, fishing, gar—
dening, and yachting. Among his other interests
were the Young Men’s Christian Association, the
American \Vild Life Association and the Metro-
politan Museum of Art.

Herbert Pratt was always ready to discuss with
staff members of the Association the problems of the
recreation movement. He was especially interested
and urged that younger men and women be found
to give leadership to take the place of some of the
outstanding leaders who had helped in the begin—
ning. He took particular delight in reports of
younger members of the Pratt family who were be«
coming interested in recreation.

The recreation movement is richer because of
the life of Herbert L. Pratt.

RECREATION

The Elementary School Science Room

HEN VISITING day ar-
W rives and Johnny and

Susie bring mother
and daddy to inspect their
school, they are eager to
point out the things that in—
terest them most. If there is
a functioning science room
it will in all probability be
the first part of the building
visited. Every parent must
meet \Vinkie, the rabbit, and
Hoppity, the toad, must try
to guess the bird riddles of
the fourth grade and must
admire the sixth grade’s
insect collection. The adults find the room as in—
teresting a place as do the children.

There are many

F

The Purpose of the Science Room

A science room may serve many purposes. All
of the science teaching may be done here, or it may
be a place for exhibits and special demonstrations
only. But if the room is also a laboratory and
workshop it will be much more interesting and
helpful. One very practical use of the science room
is that of storage place and distribution center for
science materials of all kinds. This requires plenty
of cupboard space and someone to be responsible
for organizing the supplies. A committee of older
children can perform this service, with super;
vision. As many of these materials will have been
assembled or made by the children, the idea of
sharing them with the whole school and when
valuable enough adding them to the school’s per-
manent collection, becomes an incentive to indi-
vidual classes to make finer collections and more
finished projects.

Many classrooms are too crowded to afford space
for any living materials and since it is inconceiv—
able that biological science be taught without
having living things to observe, another function
of the science room is to provide comfortable quar—
ters for living specimens.

Planning the Science Room

The primary requisite for a
science room is that it be sunny.
Substitutions can be found for

MARCH 1945 ~

By RUTH A. HUBBARD
Elementary Science Supervisor

Cleveland Heights. Ohio, Public Schools

Recreation departments today are en-
couraging the making of nature collections
by children of the playground. and aquaria
and terrariums, as well as collections of
rocksI leaves. and» flowers gathered on
hikes into the country are to be found at
many a city play center.

suggestions in this arti-
cle which will be applicable to the play-
ground nature activities program.

From School Nature League Bul-
letin, "The Elementary School Science

Room.’' by Ruth A. Hubbard. Published
by National Audubon Society. New
York. N. Y. Reprinted by permission.

almost every,other; desirable
feature except sunshine.
Another necessary feature
is that it have ample space
for exhibition tables and
work tables as well as for a
class of students. A demon-
stration desk with running
water and with gas and elec—
trical connections is very
useful. Built—in lighted ex—
hibition cases with storage
cupboards beneath are excel-
lent. Large bulletin boards
or an entire wall faced with

a composition board suitable
for thumb—tacking will be found practical. Wide
window ledges to hold plants, or, better yet, a bay
of windows closed off to make a small conserva-
tory provide for attractive displays. A large tank I
with running water for an aquarium is another
very desirable built-in feature. A library corner
for science books and a picture tile that the chil-
dren could assist in filling will help to make the
arrangements complete.

Science Room Materials and Activities

Plants. Plants add m‘ugh to the bEauty and inter-
est of any room. In a south window the following
plants will grow and bloom with a minimum of
care: varieties of begonias and geraniums, coleus,
cactus, oxalis, house iris, African violet, cyclamen
and narcissus. In north windows plants will not
bloom but many may be grown there for green-
ness: varieties of ivy, peperomia and philodendron,
coleus, ferns and sedums.

Children should have the opportunity of start-
ing plants by various methods: growing morning
glories from seeds; begonias and geraniums from
slips; African violets from leaf cuttings. They will
also enjoy growing paper white narcissus from
bulbs in water, and daffodils that must be potted
and buried outdoors for two or more months
before being forced indoors.

In order to see the whole
process of germination and
root growth as well as that of
the stem and the leaves, seeds
can be planted in a straight-

641

642 THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SCIENCE ROOM

sided glass jar. A cylinder of blotting paper lining
the glass and filled with moist sand or peat moss
holds the seeds visible against the glass. A visual
method of teaching the requirements of a growing
plant" is to start a number of the same kind of
plants of uniform size and grow them under vary-
ing conditions of soil, moisture, and light, and
compare results.

Aquaria. An aquarium offers one of the easiest
ways of keeping animals. Once pr0perly balanced

it requires very little attention. Most teachers”

know the technique of setting up an aquarium but
how many utilize the wealth of teaching material
with which it abounds? \Vith the animals supply—
ing the carbon dioxide used by the water plants
in their food-making process which in turn liber-
ates the oxygen needed by the animals, the aquar-
ium is a perfect illustration of the carbon oxygen
cycle. By introducing animals that prey upon each
other, the smallest becoming food for the next
larger and these becoming food for the still larger
animals, numerous links in a food chain may be
observed. The adaptation of the plants and ani—
mals to life in the water is another fascinating
subject presented.

Goldfish are colorful inhabitants of an aquarium
and they are hardy, but for
variety’s sake, our native pond '
fish such as the blue gills, sun-

School children see with their eyes and

hear with their ears the things they
have read about in their textbooks

fish and catfish should be used. Fish hatcheries
sometimes may be obtained from the state conser-
vation department to enable one to make his own
collection. Native fish thrive better if a diet of
commercial dried food is varied with chopped beef,
small pieces of earthworms or milkworms.

Water insects of all kinds, backswimmers, water
boatmen, diving beetles, dragonfly nymphs, water
scorpions and many more, are fascinating inhabi-
tants of an aquarium because of the variety of ways
in which they are adapted to life in the water.
They will not live together long, however, for they
eat each other and in a short time only one or two
of the larger varieties (larger links in the food
chain) will be left.

Guppies are hardy tropical fish that are interest-
ing to rear in the science room because they bear
their young alive. By using an aquarium heater,
less hardy, but extremely interesting fish can be
raised. A home-made heater is easily constructed
by suSpending an olive jar, weighted with sand,
in one corner of the tank, with the mouth of the
bottle above water level. An electric light bulb of
sufficient wattage to maintain a temperature of
80° F. is hung in a bottle with its cord passing
through a hole in the metal cover. A tropical fish
hobbyist or a good reference
book should be consulted on
the idiosyncrasies of the fish

 

Courtesy National A udubon Society

RECREATION

THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SCIENCE ROOM 643

chosen. Success is not always attained at first, but
all the time and effort expended are well repaid if
young Paradise or Siamese fighting fish are finally
reared in their bubble nest.

A doctor’s degree in aquatics should be pre-
sented to the teacher who establishes a marine
aquarium in an inland science room for there are
many hazards to be overcome. Several biological
supply houses will ship ocean water and a collec-
tion of hardy sea invertebrates during the winter
months with directions for their care. However it
is essential that the weather cooperate and remain
cold during the period of shipment and that every-
thing is ready at the school to establish a home for
these ocean guests as speedily as possible upon
their arrival. Means must be found for maintain-
ing the salt water aquarium at 60° F. and for
providing adequate aeration. An air pump is the
surest method although if an abundant supply of
sea lettuce accompanies the shipment and the light
is sufficient, the lettuce will thrive and liberate a
good supply of oxygen. Feeding is the least of the
problems involved for most of the animals will eat
oysters. But happy are the ingenious teacher and
class who successfully meet these difficulties, for
the starfish will walk about on their tube feet, the
sea anemone will open and close its tentacles, and
the hermit crab will travel about in its shell house
for several exciting and profitable weeks.

Terrariums. Terrariums are equally as valuable
as aquariums for the variety of plant and animal
life they can accommodate. The simplest way to
make a terrarium is to stick panes of glass together
with adhesive tape to form the sides and top of a
box which may be set in a shallow pan as base. A
more rigid and therefore more serviceable type has
a wooden frame and floor. If this floor is covered
by a shallow galvanized pan the terrarium is then
adaptable for every purpose short of becoming an
aquarium.

Terrariums may serve as small greenhouses for
propagating plants. They may be set up in minia-
ture to represent many habitats: desert, field,
woods“ marsh, and shallow pond. Educationally
the terrarium is a failure if the plants are not kept
true to one environment. If a small animal is
added, children will watch the terrarium with an
unending interest. Many small amphibians and
reptiles are suitable for these habitations. Horned
toads and snakes are at home in the desert. Al-
though snakes are found in other than desert situa-
tions, in captivity they do best in desert situations.
However, water for drinking should be provided.

a

MARCH 1945

Frogs and toads live in a moist field or wood-
land habitat. The red eft belongs in the marsh.
Small turtles or salamanders will enliven a habitat
that contains a pool and a shore line. A list of food
for these animals should include: earthworms for
snakes, toads, frogs, salamanders, and turtles;
mealworms for the horned toads, toads and frogs;
fruit flies for the small tree frogs; ground meat for
the turtle and, if wiggled on the end of a broom
straw, for the frogs, toads, and salamanders.

In setting up a terrarium, adequate drainage
must be provided by a bottom layer of coarse sand
and gravel. A layer of charcoal on top helps
absorb odors arising from decaying organic mat-
ter. The soil should be the type suited to the
plants’that are to be grown in it: for example—
potting soil for house plants, rich leaf mold for
woodland plants and an acid soilifor those of the_
marsh. If possible when collecting the plants in
the field, sufficient soil for the terrarium should

also be taken.

Insects. Fall is the time when insects are promi-
nent and many insects may be kept alive and
observed for several weeks. It is quite possible to
have many living varieties at one time: a cricket-
serenading his dusky mate, a praying mantis stalk-
ing a grasshopper, a doodle bug waiting patiently
at the bottom of its sand trap for an unwary ant, la
ladybird beetle feasting on aphids, a cecropia cater-
pillar spinning its bag-like cocoon.

Terrariums, preferably with wire screen replac-
ing their glass covers to avoid excessive moisture,
make satisfactory cages for insects. A temporary
cage that children enjoy making is constructed of
wire screening. A cylinder of screen of the proper
circumference is held together with brass paper
fasteners and set in a tin jar lid. A thin layer of
plaster of Paris poured over the bottom of the lid
will hold the screen in place while a second lid
furnishes the cover.

If one is fortunate enough to have the services
of a good carpenter, an observation bee-hive or ant
colony is easily built. Biological supply houses will
furnish the occupants and directions for their care.
Either one will open a great field of fascinating
study.

Mammals. Mammals are of never failing interest
to youngsters and there are many kinds that are
easily cared for in the classroom. For those con-
templating keeping live mammals in the science
room, however, it is well to consider that this
group requires daily care, even over week-ends.

(Continued on page 669)

 
 

Print by Gedge Harmon

Ew MOTORISTS would consider it an act of van-

dalism to waste the gay spring flowers that

carpet our roadsides by wantonly picking
them. Nevertheless, that is exactly what it is;
pure vandalismr’in its strictest sense.

For the bright wildflowers that rim our high-
ways are but precious jewels in a huge museum
that is draped with such signs: “Danger: Nature
at W ork—Do Not Ruthlessly Destroy.” Dame
Nature is the curator of this beautiful museum.
Her sole duty is to supply the countryside with
brilliant patches of color to delight the eyes of the
passing throngs. Her power does not extend to a
strong hand that would keep clutching fingers from
her prize subjects. That is up to you.

Our nation is world-famous for its magnitude of
dazzling wildflowers that unroll in colorful pag—
eantry beside its highways. But the uneducated
motorists-tourists are rapidly extinguishing the
bright flower-flame of native glory by unknow-
ingly picking too many wildflowers.

Moderation the Rule

Conservation experts do not expect you to exer-
cise strict temperance in gathering wildflowers.
Rather, they hammer home the fact of moderation.
Following are a few pertinent rules concerning
the picking of wildflowers. Adhered to faithfully,
our roadsides and hills will retain their breath—
stealing splendor. '

I. Never pick a wildflower bouquet unless there
are a hundred flowers just like the one you pick,
in the very same vicinity, to replace it.

This is merely insurance for next season’s
bloom. If you leave enough of the others, then

you may enjoy the same spectacle of wildflowers
next spring.

2. Never pick more wildflowers than you can
use.

644

Beware! It's Spring i

By CARROLL ABBOTT
Los Angeles. California

If you lhinkil's Spring showers
we're warning you aboul you're
misiaken. H's Spring flowers!

The most disgusting sight of spring is to see a
motorist arrive home laden with a wilted mass of
once-lovely natives destined to be junked for the
garbage. Take adequate precautions to assure the
freshness of your wildflower bouquets. If you
know where wildflowers abound, and are careful
in your choice of numbers, go prepared. A pail of
fresh water or a cool, moist burlap bag to wrap
around the stems, will aid the natives in getting
over their travel-shock. For goodness sakes don’t
ride them outside on the fender, turning them
both to the broiling rays of the sun and the inner
heat of the car engine!

3. Never pick a flower that is neW’to you when
it is alone.

When you spy a special beauty that you don’t
know the rarity of and it is all alone in its glory,
guard yourself from destroying the chances of it
getting established in a new territory. Let it alone,
enjoy it next season, and before long there will be
a sufficient supply for you to take home.

4. Never pull the roots of a native or cut the
stem too close to the ground.

The roots are the plant’s storehouse that add
up energy for later blossoms and the flower show
next spring. When you cut a flower, you momen-
tarily halt the brightness of the plant. But if you
pull up the roots and allow them to bake in the
sun, you clip short the future of any more flowers.
Leave a goodly portion of the stalk {and help the
plant bounce back into bloom right away.

5. Do not attempt to transplant these natives to
your own garden.

Unless you are an extra-average gardener with
loads of experience in taming these wildings, this
is a “must.” In adjusting the native to its home,

I'V

RECREATION

BEWARE! IT’S SPRING 645

you must supply all the little items that made it
happy in its former home. Rainfall, amount of sun-
shine, type of soil, and other essentials are not
easy make-to-order requirements. Leave this oper-
ation to the more skilled botanists of colleges and
nurseries. If you want to see the pert, spring sun-
shiners in your garden, buy the seed from a nurs-
ery that specializes in native flower seed. In this
method, you adapt the natives to your garden en-
vironment more q_uickly and much less fatally.

6. Try preserving wildflowers with camera and
drawing board.

Few subjects are more admirably suited for
camera or sketching models than wildflowers.

They possess a unique charm all their own, a -

grace unsurpassed, and colors and arrangements
that challenge the artist and photographer. There
are no open or closed seasons on these natives;
you can “shoot” all day, every day, without fear
of exceeding your limit. You have your choice of
a million applicants. Their patience is unexcelled
and they will pose for hours. Yet a newer change
is unfolded every few feet, and each day new
blossoms open to bring added thrills.

7. Learn to press and mount wildflowers.

An old-fashioned hobby that is as fascinating as
a smart baby. In yesteryear, the first flower of
spring was crushed between two sheets of news-
paper under the heavy
weight of the family
Bible. In the scorching

'1

seeds to reproduce their brilliant wares of spring,
This is the most important axiom to remember.
For though the plant be an annual (living but one
year) or a perennial (surviving for several sea—
sons), the fact still remains vital. When you pluck
the blossoms of _,_a beautiful native, you immedi-
ately destroy a certain small portion of next year’s
blooms. How great a chaos you create for the
following spring depends on how many seed-pro—
ducing blossoms you wreck this season.

If a plant is a perennial, it has a chance next
year. But most perennials do not have the happy
habit of producing the huge amount of seed like
annuals, and in the course of a few years run their
allotted course and die. If too many of their
flowers are picked or if they are yanked up by
their roots, their chances of reproducing are lost.

Beware! It’s spring when the country is
fragrant and flashy with wildflowers and tempta—
tion mounts high. But this spring think . . . of
next season, of your fellow motorists, and prin-
cipally, of the wildflower glory that you might
wreck.

Wildflower names are story names, telling in
advance what to expect. The anemone is, in truth,
windflower, graceful and light as the first south-
west breeze that sets the fragile stem vibrating,

the delicate flower head
" dancing on the hillsides.
Bloodroot has many other

rays of summer and the
changing colors of
autumn, the pressed flow-
ers recalled spring pic-
nics, festivals, and other
worthwhile remem-
brances. This pastime
preserves the native flow-
ers in form and color,
ever-ready at a moment’s
' notice to summon pleas-
ant trips and beautiful
sights of spring.

A simple lesson in
botany relating to the life
process of wildflowers
would clear up many
mistaken suppositions.

Facts to Remember

All wildflowers rely on

MARCH 1945

"Wildflowers add so much to the beauty of a

landscape that they have become a public trust
and it is easy to understand why widespread ef-
forts are being made to conserve them. Many
states protect them by lawI inflicting the same
punishment on those who break branches and pick
flowers as on those who kill quail or catch bass
out of season. Such laws are no hindrance to the
enjoyment of flowers' for the pleasure of seeing
them is much greater than that of picking them.

"Learning to recognize wildflowers is neither
harder nor easier than learning to recognize peo-
ple. Some plantsI like some people. are so un-
usual in appearance that those who once see them
can never forget them nor confuse them with any
other. There are many. howeverI whose names
may be learned today and' forgotten tomorrow
unless we employ other senses as well as sight in
learning to know them.

"Whether you grow them in your own backyard
or seek them out in the woodlands. wildflowers
are a part of your heritage of beauty that it is

worthwhile to claim."——Maud R. Jacobs in An
Introduction to Wildflowers.

 

names—turmeric, Indian
paint, redroot. The red
dye in stem and root
lives up to the plant’s
aliases but none of them
suggest the sheer joy of
a first glimpse of the
waxy white flower bud-
ded in a cup or Opened
wide into a star.°Bluet,
from the French bleuet,
diminutive of bleu, is an—
other springcomer with
many names. These plants
are commonly known as
Quaker Ladies or Inno-
cence wherever a myriad
small plants grow close
to carpet—so ’tis said-—
land too poor to nourish
robuster feeders.

‘0

What They Say About Nature Recreation

ll OR IF DELIGHT can provoke men’s labor, what
greater delight is there than to behold the
earth apparelled with plants ?”—Gerrard’s

H erball.

“Though I suppose it may be of no avail, I yet
shout: ‘Ho, come to the Sierra forests; the king is
waiting for you—King Sequoia.’ ”—]ohn Muir.

, “Why not walking; walking as a fine art? Na—

ture flowers best and fullest through walking. It
is the open sesame to all! outdoors.”—Raymond
Tifft Fuller in Now That We Have to Walk.

“I consider that gardening for boys and girls
represents one of the subjects in education which
is of lasting interest and of considerable value in
their everyday 1ife.”-—Robert Moses.

“The administrator of public lands has a double
responsibility: to keep some wilderness in exist-
ence,'and to cultivate its qualitative en joyment.”—

Aldo Leopold in Wilderness Values. 0

“It is as much a patriotic duty to save our
native wild flowers as it is to collect and preserve
any early Americana. The native plants were
established here before our country was known.”
——-The Garden Club of America;

“As a nation we are growing up—we are be-
coming more mature in our consideration of our
resources. We now see more of the interdepend-
ency and interconnections in the use of our re-

sources.”—Claude R. W ickard.

“The forests of America, however slighted by
man, must have been a great delight to God, for
they were the best he ever planted. The whole
continent was a garden, and from the beginning it
seemed to be favored above all the other wild parks
and gardens of the globe.”—]ohn Muir.

“The beauty of a virgin forest or of a mountain
lake or meadow; the setting from which great
manifestations of nature’s forces are viewed ——
these are fragile things.”—Newton B. Drury.

646

“The teaching of Nature we call play, but it is
not easy and it is not secondary; its chief courses
are in exploration and experiment, in creation, art
and music, in love and nurture, in war and hunt-
ing, and in team play. It sows the arts of war and
peace, and aims at those ends that men willdie for
and in pursuit of which all human genius is ex-
pressed.”—Joseph Lee.

“How few find time to stop and enter the
friendly woodlands so near at hand, or stroll along
the grassy bank and ‘pore upon the brook that
babbles by.’ ”-—-— William A. Babson in Modern

Wilderness.

“In conquering the soil man developed the race.
The conquest of the land measures the breadth of
civilization. Agriculture is the age-old occupation
of mankind.”-——Van Eerie Kilpatrick.

“In the great religious literature of the world
(the Bible and the Koran) water is called ‘a bless-
ing’ and paradise has been referred to as ‘a place
where water is abundant.’ ”-—Robert H. Brown in

Our Natural Resources and Their Conservation.

“Here’s a queer thing: I have often helped Na-
ture do what she wanted to do so that she made
a better job than she could have done alone; but I
have never been able to make her do anything she
didn’t want to do!”—ll/I. G. Kains in Gardening
for Young People.

“ ’Tis always morning somewhere, and above
The awakening continents, from shore to shore,
Somewhere the birds are singing evermore.”
—From Birds of Killingsworth by Longfellow.

“Once in a while man must touch solid rock, see
the sun rise, and wonder at the stars. He should
let the rain beat on his face, feel the power of the
storm-wind on his back, hear the crash of a light-
ning—struck tree thundering to earth, and know
the impersonality of things primitive.”—Paul U.
Brown. '—

“No tree in all the grove but has its charms.
And each its charm peculiar.”-—William Cowper.

RECREATION

 

ideas, take heart! There’s plenty of material,

and many people have been before you in the
field. There are patterns to guide you. Generally
speaking, you won’t be able to use material from
other communities, but you can adapt ideas from
other places to your own needs and you can, with
a little pondering, dream up new ideas of your
own. The following suggestions from communities

with successful radio programs may set the bells
on your thinking capa-jingling.

IF YOU ARE LOOKING around for radio program

Means to an End

It is probably safe to assume that the main pur-
pose of a broadcast on recreation or by a recrea-
tion department will be to win friends and infiu—
ence people. There are, in general, two ways to
achieve this. You can make people aware of your
program by telling them, on the air, all about it—
its why, its how, its where and when and. who. Or
you can make them aware of your program by
using radio to give them something, by a service of
some kind to the adults or to the children of the
community. Both kinds of programs are going
over the air from recreation departments. Both
kinds have value. Which is bet-
ter for your community is a
thing you will have to decide
for yourself after due consider-
ation of all the factors that
must enter into such a decision.

MARCH 1945

by ane I. Faulkner

Naho nal 'Recv'eai‘ton association

This is fhe second of a series of
arficles on fhe use of radio by
recreafion depar’rmenfs. The firsf.
Going on the Air?. appeared in fhe
December I944 issue of RECREATION.

FOR PUBLICITY

m Rnolo

 

Some city recreation departments have programs
of both kinds.

Some of the programs now being used success-
fully are described here. If you think one of them
could be adapted to your community, or if you get
an idea about a new kind of air show, be sure of
one thing. Make certain that whatever you do is
good. Your standards of radio production cannot
be too high. And, before you embark on a project,
be sure you know whether your station has the
facilities necessary to make your program good.

Programs of Information

Informational programs are usually cast in the
form of news bulletins. They are factual, or largely
factual, and “advertise” the department and its
work directly. Here are a few variants aired in
I944.

Chicago. Illinois. (Population 4,499,1261) Sat-
urday afternoons from I :45 to 2:00 find many
listeners in the Chicago area
dialed to WBBM and G.I.JOE
REMEMBERS. This is a series of
dramatizations based on letters

 

1. All population figures are from the
1940 census.

647

648 PATTERNS FOR PUBLICITY IN RADIO

I

from servicemen overseas. Each program in the
series deals with the things some member of the
armed forces delights to remember about Chicago’s
parks and the things he is looking forward to there
when peace shall bring him home again. For the
first broadcast “Joe” remembered square dancing.
A group of dancers currently enjoying this phase
of the park’s program were on hand to give a
demonstration of calls and music.

Los AngelesI California. (Population 1,504,277)
In addition to a weekly program which is de-
scribed later, the Department of Playgrounds and
Recreation participates now and then on KFI in
a series called THIS Is MY COUNTRY. THIS Is
MY COUNTRY uses imaginative, stories based on
fact and cast in dramatic form to tell of the work
being done by many civic groups in the commu-
nity. Now and again some phase of the Recrea-
tion Department’s work makes the story for the
week. Parenthetically, this is
a good kind of “spot” for a
single broadcast if you can
get it, since the series is well
established and so a ready-
made listening audience is as-
sured in advance.2

Kinsi'onI North Carolina.
(Population 15,388) The Di-
rector of Recreation of Kin-
ston spends fifteen minutes a
week broadcasting recreation
news bulletins and interviewing children on their
experiences at playgrounds and recreation centers.

TucsonI Arizona (Population 36,818) Tucson
had at one time, 1944, three recreation department
programs on the air. One of them filled fifteen
minutes with news about recreation on both the
local and the national interest levels.

Binghamfon. New York. (Population 145,156)
The supervisor of social recreation for the Munici-
pal Recreation Commission goes on the air each
Tuesday at 4:30 P. M. with a program of news
items and children’s songs called PLAY’S THE
THING. The main purpose of the program, ac-
cording to its author, is to tell the people of Bing-
hamton and its environs about recreation in the
county. Suggestions are given for home play, for
play out of doors, for play indoors in those long,
winter evenings, for making play apparatus, and
for winter sports activities. On each broadcast an-
nouncements are made for four other community
agencies selected from such organizations as
churches, museums, public libraries, Girl and Boy

REMEMBER!

The type of radio program you choose
depends upon the time. the talent. the
technical facilities at your disposal. What
you have to work wil'hI and the limita-
tions under which you workI musi' de-
termine the kind of program you put on.

Set and keep your standards high; keep

your audience and your purpose in mind'
and, whatever Jrhe prog ram, make if good!

Scouts, 4-H Clubs. The announcements are inter-
spersed with recordings of children’s songs. The
program has been on the air since September 26th,
and the reaction to it has been so enthusiastic that
the Municipal Recreation Commission hopes to
keep it going throughout the winter and to double
the time allotted to it during the summer months.3

Service Programs

Service programs are less obviously and directly
aimed to disseminate information about the recrea-
tion program in the community. Their publicity
value is excellent, however, because, broadcast in
the name of the recreation commission or depart-
ment, they build up public good will toward knowl-
edge of, and appreciation for the work that is
being done.

Raleigh. Nor'l'h Carolina. (Population 46,897)
The Recreation Department provides two very
different service-type pro-
grams for Raleigh. In Au-
gust, when the polio epidemic
kept children away from play-
grounds and pools, the De-
partment of Parks and Rec-
reation started a childen’s
theater of the air. From
August until the middle of
November, dramatizations of
fairy stories were given on
the air three times each week.
These programs were under the direction of a
member of the staff who was also instructor of
dramatics at a near-by college. Beginning N ovem-
ber 13th, the separate fairy stories were replaced
by a serial Ramkuni and the Flaming Sword with
setting in India.

Raleigh’s second program was co-sponsored by
the Department of Parks and Recreation and sta-
tion WRAL, and was a daily feature. Sixty-four
boys under sixteen registered to be auditioned for
the job of junior sports announcer. The duties of
the announcer were to give the schedule and re-
sults of softball games, report on activities at the
playgrounds, and announce special events.

ChicagoI Illinois. (Population 4,449,126) PARK
PLAYHOUSE is on the air over WGN at 8 :30 P. M.
It is a highly developed program in dramatic form
professionally constructed from script writing to

 

2. A copy of one of the recreation broadcasts on THIS Is Mr
COUNTRY is available from the National Recreation Associa-
tion at a cost of $.35 (MP 358).

.3. Barbara Morrissey, Supervisor of Social Recreation for the
Municipal Recreation Commission of Binghamton and author

of the program will be glad to answer questions about her
broadcasts.

RECREATION

PATTERNS FOR PUBLICITY IN RADIO 649

plans for promoting a listening audience. Its pur-
pose is to dramatize recreation through interesting
and telling scripts about the lives of such people as
Betty Robinson, who overcame the handicap of a
knee broken in her college days and made the
Olympic team. The programs were initiated by
the Chicago Park District, and the Motor Coach
Company which is financing the series. The Di-
rector of Recreation feels that the “park message
in this series will go out to a listening public we
have never been able to speak to before.”

Los Angeles, California. (Population 1,504,277)
THE AMERICAN STORYBOOK is sponsored by the
Department of Playground and Recreation. It is
written and narrated by a recreation director of
the department who has had years of experience
in handling story material for children. AMERICAN
‘ STORYBOOK is presented weekly at 10:30 Saturday
morning and lasts for fifteen minutes. Generally
speaking, the stories are narrated by one person.
Occasionally, however, it is varied by the intro-
duction of bits of dramatization, by the use of two
or three voices other than the narrator in the con-

versational interludes of the story. The tales are A

woven about incidents in the lives of men and
women who have contributed to the building of
America, some of them very famous, others less
well known. A minute of each broadcast period is
reserved at the end of the program for announce-

ments which the department wants the public to
hear.

I

One of the significant features of this Los An-
geles series is the promotion plan that has been
worked out and the tie-up with the schools, not
only in Los Angeles but in much of the region
covered by station KMTR. The Weekly Bulletin
of the department carries a reminder of the series
and it is given further publicity through news
releases to community newspapers and other pub-
lications. The audio-visual divisions of the schools
are doing an in-school promotion job, and all
teachers in Los Angeles city and county know
about the program. It has been suggested to all
teachers that they use the stories as materials sup-

plementary to their classroom teaching. Students

are asked to listen in and report on each program
in class.4

The director of public relations for the depart-

 

4. A valuable tie-up between schools and recreation department
has been successfully worked out in Omaha in connection
with the program WE MARCH WITH FAITH. This program
18 planned and produced by the schools to publicize the less

known,_ more Specialized fields of education, among them
recreation.

MARCH 1945

ment has the following comment on the genesis of
the AMERICAN STORYBOOK:

The Recreation Department of Los Angeles has been
using radio for the last fifteen years. Our earlier
broadcasts were almost entirely musical, presenting
such amateur groups as 'boys’ bands, harmonica groups,
young people’s choruses, etc. When wartime conditions
caused a reduction in the number of well qualified
choral groups and others whom we could present on
the air, we switched over to the present story broad-
cast series and found it was in many respects the best
type of program of all. Because it is recreational as
well as educational, it lends itself well to presentation
by a Recreation Department. The parents and others
approve of the broadcast as a contrast to the usual
run of commercially-sponsored children’s programs,
which generally are over-stimulating to young listeners.

Louisville, Kentucky. (Population 434,408) Louis-
ville’s radio story hour was another program that
came out of necessity. When the polio epidemic
forced many youngsters to stay away from play-
grounds and other places where children are wont
to congregate, the Recreation Department planned
to transfer their storytelling hour to the radio,
thus contributing to the entertainment of house or
yard-bound boys and girls. This is a radio success
story, because the sustaining program was so popu-
lar that it quickly found a commercial sponsor who
has taken over all expenses of the production.

Tucson, Arizona. (Population 36,818) A group
of amateur players has been developed under the
aegis of recreation leaders in Tucson. This group
presents each week a popular modern play which
has been rewritten for radio.

San Francisco. California. (Population 634,536).
Each Sunday at 12 :30 P. M., four teen-age young-
sters take part in the Youth Forum over KFRC.
Each of the boys and girls does his own research
and expresses his own views on a subject of cur-
rent interest which has been assigned by the
forum’s moderator several days in advance. No
scripts appear at these broadcasts though notes
may be used.

Warning !

If you in Podunk, U.S.A., want to try radio as
a means of publicity, the programs cited above will
give you some idea of the breadth of the field, the
number of types of programs from which you may
choose. Of course, in radio as elsewhere, the proof
of the pudding will always lie in the eating. The
type of program you choose must depend upon the
time, the talent, the technical facilities at your dis-

(Continued on page 670)

Wisconsin's Ranger Mac

N AROUSED farmer stormed into
A a small, backwoods school-
house in northern Wisconsin and demanded

of the teacher:

“What have you been doing to my son?”

The astounded schoolmarm, who couldn’t recall
birching the visitor’s child, or committing any
similar atrocity, stammered out a request for
further information.

“My boy and I,” the father explained, “have
gone hunting every weekend the year around since
he learned how to walk, but last Saturday, when I
asked him if he wanted to go for a tramp and do
some shooting, he refused.

“He said, ‘Ranger Mac says you aren’t playing
fair.’ 'Who is this Ranger Mac guy, anyway?”

The teacher told the irate father about Ranger
Mac, a nature enthusiast who objects to hunting
out-of-season, but he could have obtained the same
information from any one of hundreds of thou-
sands of school children in Wisconsin and nearby
states.

In real life Ranger Mac is jovial, 60-year-old
Wakelin McNeel, a heavy-set ex-forester with a
ruddy complexion and sandy-gray hair, who was
promoted to state leader of 4-H clubs in Wiscon-
sin because he “liked kids.” Eleven years ago he
went on the air over University of Wisconsin
,Radio Station WHA, at Madison, to stimulate in-
terest in nature subjects among
the school children of the state.
Since that time he has greeted
his youthful “trail-hitters” every
Monday morning during the
school year.

The Aj‘ield with Ranger Mac
broadcasts over WHA — oldest
of the nation’s existing broad-
casting stations——are heard an-
nually by 40,000 pupils in hun-
dreds of state graded schools, as
part of the Wisconsin School of
the Air curriculum. Although he
won the George Foster Pea-
body award for the best educa—
tional radio program in 1942,
Mac has shattered every rule of
broadcasting technique. His fla-

650

By PHIL DROTNING

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

grant disregard for all accepted radio
standards at first created turmoil
among WHA staff members, but the unprece-

dented success of his program has quieted that
ruckus.

H. B. McCarty, director of WHA, admits that
he was appalled the first time he heard Mac broad-
cast, particularly because of the recurrent, boom-
ing emphasis placed on each succeeding point. Mac
thunders out his ideas while the needle on the
engineer’s control mechanism surges back and
forth as blast after blast rocks the mike.

Each of Mac’s broadcasts is a simple, homespun
discussion of nature. His associates feel that his
outstanding success is due to development of a
new approach to conservation problems, but if you
asked Mac, he wouldn’t even realize that he had a
new approach. Unlike most conservationists, who
preach the necessity for saving forests and wild
life by'painting grim pictures of a world without
trees, deer, or ducks, Mac teaches the children to
love and appreciate the beauties of nature and to
want to preserve them. Actually, he doesn’t teach
anything, but his own nature love is so great that
it somehow is transmitted to his listeners. His
ability is something indefinable. He succeeds be—
cause of his energy, enthusiasm, honesty and ’true
love for children. The kids feel it, and they respond.

As an individual, Mac is hopelessly modest, and
’ biographical information about
the man is scanty. Ask one of
his friends to tell you a bit about
Ranger Mac, and he’ll reply:
“Oh, Mac’s a great guy. Won-
derful teacher. The kids are
crazy about him. Do I know any
stories about him? Well, let’s
see. No, offhand, I can’t say I
do.”

Typical example of Mac’s
modesty is his-persistent refusal
to use the personal pronoun in
his broadcasts. In his ten years
of radio work, no one remem-
bers his ever saying “I” did any-
thing. It’s always “Ranger Mac
took a hike,” or, “Ranger Mac
saw a baby squirrel.” Production

RECREATION

WISCONSIN’S RANGER MAC ' 651

men at WHA have pleaded with Mac to refer to
himself as “I,” reasoning that his references to
Ranger Mac as another person will confuse the
listeners. But Mac remains strictly impersonal,
with no complaints from his radio audience.

McNeel discusses nature subjects of all types,
but because of his early training in forestry, which
even took him to the Black Forest of Germany, he
devotes much of his time to trees. An excellent
indication of his influence is the Wisconsin school
forest program which he has developed, promoted,
and managed. Mac borrowed the idea from Aus-
tralia, where children were planting trees in tracts
of land near their schools. It looked to him like a
good way to begin the restoration of thousands of
acres of cutover timber land which devastate north-
ern Wisconsin.

Under the ex-forester’s brilliant leadership,
‘ schoolchildren have planted more than 7,000,000
trees in 214 school forest plots which comprise
nearly 12,000 acres of the cutover. They have
made a substantial contribution to the timber re-
sources of America and have gained priceless
knowledge as they worked. School forests, usually
acquired by the school board through donation or
tax delinquency, are constantly increasing in num-
ber, and the plantings have grown from a few
thousand seedlings a year to nearly one and one-
half million in 1942. An even greater number was
planted in 1943, but a final tabulation has not yet
been made. .

And yet, the school forest plantings represent
only a part of the conservation work which Mac
has stimulated. Many additional seedlings have been
planted by children’s clubs and by individual chil-
dren on their own farm wood lots. These latter
plantings please their godfather most, for they jus-
tify his firm belief that the way to preserve the one-
third of Wisconsin’s timber which grows in farm
wood lots is to educate the children, and gradually
through them, their parents.

“I don’t believe that the planting of a few mil-
lion trees, however important that may be, is the
most significant point in the school forest pro-
gram,” Mac says. “The training the children get
now, which will carry over into adulthood, is
what counts. They are learning to build up their
own heritage, and that of the nation.

“A tree planter is a tree protector,” Mac be-
lieves; “Through participation the children learn
to love trees, and as future owners of the land on
which they live, they will be interested in main-
taining wood lots and preserving timber stands.”

MARCH 1945

Mac does his “bookkeeping” at a battered, roll-
top desk in Agricultural Hall on the Wisconsin
University campus. The oche is cluttered with
twigs, cocoons, and other evidences of his natural-
istic inclinations. The naturalist’s heavy mail bag
indicates the interest, both juvenile and adult,
which is shown in his programs. A typical day’s
nlail contained more than 250 inquiries ranging.
from “how to tell when a dog is sick,” to “how
can we stop the blue jays from raiding other birds’
nests?” Children turn to him for every kind of
advice. A typical sample:

Dear Ranger Mac:

Another boy and I got into an argument in class
one morning. He said that the porcupine could shoot
his quills. But I said that was just a saying. So the
teacher told us to write to you. So we did to settle
the argument. So will you please write me a letter
telling whether the porcupine shoots *his quills or not?

One of your trail-hitters,
JOHN JONES

Mac replied that personal contact will be neces-
sary before the boys ever feel the sting of a porcu-
pine quill, and included a lot of incidental facts
about the animals.

“They’re all nice kids,” he says. “I really feel
that I am missing a great opportunity by not giving
more time to each of them. I should answer their
letters more carefully. I try to frame my programs
so they won’t invite too much mail, because I just
can’t take care of it. Last year I had a program
called What is Your Favorite Tree? Result? I had
1,500 letters to answer.”

Once, in his early years of broadcasting when
he wasn’t too h0pelessly swamped with mail, Mac
offered a prize to the first listener who sent in a
cocoon. Three Wisconsin schools dismissed their
classes as soon as the program*was over so that all
the children could go cocoon hunting. Within five
minutes after the end of the program, two children
found a cocoon in the woods near their school-
house.

- Mac’s youthful listeners have shown their ap—
preciation in myriad ways. F airview school, in
west Allis, Wisconsin, published a monthly maga-
zine, the Fairm'ew Trail-Hitter, which was dedi-
cated’ to Ranger :Mac. A young girl, crippled and
confined to a wheelchair, collected specimens of
nearly every type of Wisconsin wild flower, which
she mounted in a book and presented to Mac to
show her appreciation for his program. It is a
great tribute to McNeel, for in gathering the
flowers in the collection she painfully wheeled her-

(Continued on page 672)

Dancing Plus

By FRANCIS A. COMPTON and MARGARET STIER

11 HEN ARE WE going to have some more dis-
w cussion groups and craft classes and things
like that?” The question came from a
group of boys and girls, members of the Co—Ed
Club, who went on record at the beginning of the
school year 1944 as wanting not less. dancing but
more activities which are perhaps less ephemeral
pleasures.

The question may seem startling at flI'St glance.
It was based on the satisfying experience these
youngsters had had during the previous school
year. In 1942—43, the Carondelet Y.'M.C.A. and
Y.W.C.A. included in their program dancing for
boys and girls in high schools of St. Louis, Mis-
souri. The dances, held on the first and third
Thursdays of each month, were open to any high
school boy or girl who had 15 cents and “a pair of
dancing shoes.” Theoretically the parties were
planned by a committee of youngsters picked by
“Y” workers. Actually, at the beginning of the
program any planning done by. the committee fol-
lowed considerable prodding by adult advisers!
But the dances were popular, and attendance ran
from 80 to 160 dancers.

Lessons from Hindsight

For some months the program continued in the
form of inexpensive public dances for teen-agers.
By the time school opened in the fall of 1943,
however, a good deal of thinking and planning had
been going on in the minds of the workers in
charge of the project. As a result, members of the
1942-43 Co—Ed Committee were asked to meet
with the “Y” leaders for a preview of the program.
The adults had some suggestions to offer. Dancing,
they said, is an integral “and important part of
young people’s activities, but it should not be the
entire program. Therefore, for its second year, the
proposed program for the co-ed group would in-
clude dancing on the first and third Thursday of
each month as usual, but on the second and fourth
Thursdays, participation in special interest classes,
in hobby groups, in discussions of subjects of inter-
est to their age level. Furthermore, instead of
having the co~ed activities the free-for-all, open-
to—the-teen-age public affairs that they had been

652

the year before, the adults suggested putting all
activities on the basis of membership in a club.
Club membership would be open to anyone between
the ages of fourteen and seventeen. Dues were to
be 2 5 cents a year, with a small additional charge
for the dances.

The committee listened to the proposition, then
shook their heads. “It’s a swell idea,” they said,
“and would be good for the ‘kids’ but we’re not
sure they’ll be interested.” They were willing,
however, to give the plan a try, and agreed to “talk
it up” if the “Y” leaders were willing to' see a
decided drop in membership. The “Y” people
were willing and explained that they would rather
do a really good piece of work for thirty or forty
youngsters than provide entertainment only for I50.

The Second Year’s Program

And so a new program came into being. The
dances went on much as usual except that they
were open only to club members who continued to
pay the I 5 cents entrance fee. A “Casanova Nite”
was added to the dance program on the fourth
Saturday in each month. This was a dress-up
affair—no slacks, sweaters, or skirts for the girls;
coats and ties required (to be worn and kept on)
for the boys. Casanova Nites were special, too,
because a five-piece orchestra replaced the Thurs-
day night juke box, and refreshments were served.

The alternate Tuesday nights were the surprise!
Instead of the twenty-five or thirty boys and girls
expected, the attendance never fell below fifty.

’lTwice it was eighty. These evening programs

began at 7:30 for such youngsters as were hobby-
minded. With volunteers as leaders, the boys and
girls spent an hour at dramatics, music, or crafts.
At 8:30 all of the hobby groups, augmented by
other club members who were not interested in
taking part in the first hour, came together for a
discussion period. The topics were chosen by the
Co-Ed Committee in consultation with their spon-
sors. The leaders, who came as volunteers from
the community, talked on the evening’s topic dur—
ing the first part of the program. Then the ques-
tion was thrown open for discussion from “the
floor.” At 9 :30 the whole group turned in for half

RECREATION

DANCING PLUS 653

an hour of social dancing, chatting, and general
relaxation before they went home at 10:00.

There were two sessions of discussion during
1943-44. The subject for the first session was a
“natural”——boy and girl relationships. The spe—
cific subjects for discussion were: “Boy Meets
Girl”; “Parent Trouble?”; “It’s a Date”; and
“\V ho to \Voo—and How!” The general subject
for the winter quarter was vocational training with
particular reference to the situation high school
students might eikpect to meet after the war. The
individual topics were: “Jobs—What Can I Do
Best F”; “Jobs—Just a Thumb in the Dyke 3’”;
“Jobs—Comes the Peace, Then What i”; and
“The Relation of Labor Unions to Young \‘Vork—
ers.” The spring session was devoted to the char-
acteristics and customs of a number of foreign
countries.

‘ During the summer the

Co-Eds moved out of
doors. Hikes, picnics,
swimming, and skating
parties superseded danc—
ing and discussions.

Service projects dur-
ing this time were varied.
The youngsters gathered
materials and packed
overseas kits, sent stock-
ings of candy and nuts to
settlement houses, knitted
for the Russian War Re-
lief, put on a community
New Year’s Eve Dance,
and participated in the
March of Dimes cam—

paign.

Committee Responsi7
bility

When the sponsors were
asked the question that
begins this article the re-
ply was, “VVe’d better get
the committee together
and do some planning.”
This showed, perhaps,
one of the biggest gains
that had taken place in
the program during the
year, for now the com—
mittee really worked!
They had developed to a

MARCH 1945

remarkable degree ability and capacity for plan-
ning and for carrying out their plans. N 0 longer
did they need to be prodded into activity. The
success of their work can be partly measured by
the fact that the membership of the club grew to
437 by the spring of 1944. One of the committee’s
major activities had been a retreat to a camp near
the city to plan for the 1944—45 programs. The
retreat was a high spot in the committee’s ex-
perience.

There have been changes with the expansion of
the program, and this year we have widened our
base of participation very substantially. The C0-
Ed Committee of young people which planned the

activities of the club last year was composed of
(Continued on page .668)

Getting a youth club ready for action

 

Courtesy Y. W .C .14., Altoona. Pa.

The Hut '

By N. L. MALLISON
Lieutenant Commander. USNR

It is a thatched structure 145 feet long. The

roof doesn’t leak. It is painted in soft pastel
shades of brown and green inside. Some of the
seats are upholstered—in old mattresses and can-
vas. Yes, it is elegant._ For this is the South
Pacific.

A reading and writing room with a gear locker
and service counter for issuing library books and
athletic gear fills ’one end of the Hut. Here are
well lighted writing tables, bulletin boards with all
the latest maps, about twenty different magazines
(not over a month oldl), approximately 2,000
fairly good books.

The Hut’s second room is equipped with two
octagonal card
tables, four small

IT Is ELEGANT—the enlisted men’s recreation hut.

So many interesting letters and stories are
coming to us from recreation workers serving
with the armed forces in the South Pacific and
on other far-flung battle fronts that we feel
we must share some of them with our readers.
These workers tell us as much as the censor
will permit of their experiences. and they write
us of the help they are getting from the
publications of the Association.

Lieut. Comdr. Mallison was Superintendent
of Recreation at Jacksonville. Florida. when he

entered the service of the Navy.
___________._————-

toise shell, stainless steel, native woods, and sea
shells-“articles made by one of the CB. regiments
in an interlude from Jap-killing. A few paint—
ings, a few decorated coconuts, skills of hand of
the same regiment, hang on the walls. Later the
Solomon Island Art Exhibit (on loan) will re-

. place the local show.

The Hut is the hub of the recreational life of this
Pacific island base. Between it and the mess hall

lie the “playing fields”-—two paddle tennis courts,
a badminton court,

a patio with easy

2;}... pigs avenger? may m; as   - "a; .1. ,,,.. m .. . . .3, .
game tables, an an_  m A; 3 ya at.» am pm (mews-am  garden Chan's and a,
tique piano, and a  *4 m3“ 3M“ 0L he, little pergola where

few benches. A loud ' ‘ . ~ I z. ‘ 0
speaker can be used y NW) VHK
for specialan- N’V'
nouncements, or for
playing the special
records sent over-
seas by the Navy
Department, or for
broadcasting the
election returns.
The third section
of the Hut is used
most of the time for
games and sports,
for ping-pong and
boxing, for wres-
tling and tumbling
and exercise on' the
mats. The ping-
pong enthusiasts
are a little grim
just now because
their tables, covered
with white cloths,  m, m Mg m 1.0%,”
display articles  mum -

_ - ,5

k .

2; em 3 saw

made of plastic, tor-       .,  

654

l Shut—- ‘3

punching bags and
heavy bags hang
ready for a little

. 59:5...”Fmé—Q (a Card, 

{Wt 9 «ovum»: mm m

“w W

 

 

     
 

punishment at the
hands of restless
servicemen. At the
other side of the
Hut four horseshoe
pitching courts, a
volley ball court,
and the Halsey out-
door theater await
their various usages.
Here, too, is a “wet”
canteen. “Step right
up, fellows, for beer
and ice cream, coca-
colas or ice cream
sodas (two fia-
vors 1)” Between
rocky cliffs of coral,
with infinite and
patient labor of fill-
ing in swamps, ab-
breviated softball
diamonds have

RECREATION

THE HUi‘ 655

grown. They are not- full size except for the two
Fleet Recreation Centers, but one of the teamshas

a pitcher who used to be with the Chicago Cubs‘

before he went into service. His team gets beaten
once in a while, but the whole outfit is looking
forward to what he will do to the New Zealand
officers who will take us on at their seaplane base.
Of course, they will probably take the Americans
into camp when they come here for a cricket
. match!

The Hut has been generatrix to “Scandals,”
developed by the band (popular at home and
about to go “on the road” to a large island in
another area) and hostess to USO and service
shows when opera stars and concert artists change
off on alternating weeks with a group of blue-
jackets who call themselves the “Modernairs.”

No day is complete for the Hut without its
‘ movie. Going to see the picture at night is almost
as routine as washing your face in the morning.
There are many “gripes” at an occasional “stinker,”
but a check with home papers shows that the South
Pacific is seeing much the same movies as Main
Street, many of them in “glorious technicolor.” "

But, though the Hut'is. the “unlaxing” center
for the base, there are always moments when you
just kind of want to go off by yourself and listen
to the radio—quietly. So, each unit has a small
rec hut or day room. To those refuges and to some
barracks are assigned radios capable of pulling in
the states, “Tokyo Rose,” and the local “Mosquito
Network.” .

The Hut is birthplace of the Tattler, the depart-
ment newspaper. World News at a Glance, Sport
Shorts by Schwartz, the Stale Wit Parade, sched-
ules of all local events of importance, and cartoons
on Sunday are a few of the reasons why this brain-
child of the Hut is having no subscription cancel-
lations. '

Around Christmas time the Hut was awhirl with
extra bustle. A contest was in progress—a contest
for Christmas cards and poems. The battered old
inimeograph machine stuttered and chattered and

groaned as several thousand designs rolled off on
their V-mail blanks.

There will be V-mail cards

for other occasions, too, for
the Fourth of July, birthdays,

If it weren’t for the weather
the Hut would have never a
care in the world. During
monsoon season there can be

MARCH 1945

Some of the rather more unusual forms
of recreational opportunities provided
anniversaries, No charge! by tropical waters are described in a
letter from a lieutenant somewhere over-
seas. We present some extracts from the
letter. which was published in the Octo-
ber issue of the Nature Guide News
Letter sent out by Dr. William G. Vinal.

as much as five inches of rain in twelve hours, and
the “stormy winds do blow” at the rate, sometimes,
of 100 miles per hour———and that’s a high wind in
case you don’t know it! Last year the Hut
weathered the season without too much difficulty.
This year we are all hoping that the season will
confine itself to the daily showers of blessing that
we have all gotten more or less used to.

ThereIare many other pleasures to be found in
or near the Hut. There is, for instance, the dough-
nut machine which knocks .off 540 items an hour—
fun to watch, fun to eat. The band plays for many
occasions, including church services. A “Univers-
ity” is useful as well as recreational. Yes, the Hut
is doing yeoman service in the battle against bore-
dom and homesickness on this South Pacific island.
More power to it and to the men who make it

“tick.”

“The beach and ocean are just outside your tent.
The coral beds extend out to the reef 600 yards
from shore, and in that water lies the source of
great recreational opportunities. Some men buy out-
riggers from natives and fix them with their own "7
devices. They race. Some ‘requisition’ old discarded
auxiliary airplane gas tanks and fashion them into
swift boats; others walk out on to the reef and
watch the waves roll in. You can look into a wall
of water and see as clearly as through an aquarium
and you watch for schools of fish. There they are!
Pull the pin, throw it— I—2-3-4-Boom! and you
have fish to supplement an otherwise dull menu.
In the moss-like coral beds you see countless types
of tiny fish —-—- tropical fish —— and their shapes and
colors are indescribable. The rainbow dulls in
their light. The medics built an outdoor aquarium
of concrete. They have coral and live cowry shells,
and they bring their tropical fish to the aquarium.
It is a fine job. The biggest hobby here is shell
collecting. Cowry shells are used for money in
Africa by some native tribes. The men spend hours
hunting for these and catseyes. They make beauti-
ful bracelets and necklaces. They take Australian
coins and beat them into rings and mount catseyes
in them. They make lapel pins for girls and
catseye brooches, the setting
beat out of a coin. They cut
aluminum and the plastic
.nose from wrecked planes and
fashion intricate jewelry using
the shells that they found by
wading for hours and turning

(Continued on page 666)

National Music Week—1945

ECREATION leaders are
R each year finding more

varied and productive
ways of participating in Na-
tional Music Week, begin-
ning always the first Sun—
day in ‘May. The observance
is now approaching its twen-
ty-second anniversary, May

In St. Louis a large Song
and Folk Festival was or-
ganized by the Park and
Recreation Department to

stimulate interest in singing
and folk dancing. White and
colored community centers chose themes for a fif-
teen minute performance—such as South of the
Border, Southern Melodies, Gypsy, Cowboy, In-
than —and fathers, mothers, boys, girls, and kin-
dergarten groups took part, according to the report
of Bernard C. Winkelmann, Superintendent of
Recreation, to the National Music Week Commit-
tee. For the grand linale the entire chorus com-
posed of all centers sang four army songs, with the
best soloist leading in “Say a Prayer for the Boys

Over There.”

In Birmingham, Alabama, the Recreation De-'

partment has a prominent place on the central
Music Week Committee, composed of representa—
tives of the high schools, colleges, and Federated
Music Clubs. For a number of years, according
to Agnes C. Henagan, Director of Women’s and
Girls’ Activities, the Department has been arrang-
ing concerts and special programs with local talent
and volunteer groups, every afternoon and evening
during the observance.

Other cities in which recreation workers take
the initiative in the observance, or constitute a
leading element in the central committee are Read-
ing, York, and VVilkes-Barre,
Pennsylvania, Columbus,
Ohio, Baltimore, Maryland,
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and
Alton, Illinois. Boston has
recently taken advantage of
the occasion to demonstrate
that music-making, for the
love of it, is a legitimate, even

656

 

How can recreation executives help in
the promotion of National Music Week?

The I945 Letter of Suggestions has an

answer to this question:

"In addition to featuring musical activities
fostered by their departmentsI recreation
executives can serve effectively by gooper-
ating with existing Music Week committeesI
or by taking the initiative in organizing
6-13. community-wide committees where none
exist. Music Week committees might well
canvass the public recreation departments
to see what help they have to offer in
facilities. leadership. and publicity."

 

 The I945 Letter of Suggestions is now
available from the National Music Week
Committee. in care of the National Rec-
reation Association. 3|5 Fourth Avenue.
New York ID. New York. Write at once
for a copy of the Letter and make
your plans to play a part in the effort
to "Use Music to .1Foster Unity for
the War and the Peace to Follow."

integral, part of a compre-
hensive recreation program.
In that city last Spring, the
Community Recreation Ser-
vice acted as a clearing
house for twenty-six local
agencies, and a month be-
fore the observance called a
meeting “to exchange ideas
on what is the most practi-
cal yet meaningful manner
in which to participate in
Music Week this year.”

A community night is
often a feature of the par-
ticipation, and it is growing
in popularity. The event provides an occasion for
the appearance of musical talent, both individual
and ensemble, and for the representation, through
their musical offerings, of at least half a dozen
different types of organizations, many not prima-
rily musical. The teen canteen for instance, though
it has not yet scheduled choral or instrumental re-
hearsals, may still have a place on the program
with its best boy or girl singer, or may even be
able to shine with a vocal quartet or an instru-
mental trio. At the same time, it will have a
chance to “tell the world” that its members con-
sider music—making a part of wholesome recreation
and of growing-up in a rounded adaptable way.
Boise, Idaho; Flint, Michigan; Durham, North
Carolina; and Salem, Oregon, are among the fairly
large cities in which community night has been a
Music Week highlight and a unifying force.

Audience singing frequently, but not always,
provides the background for community night pro—
grams. Songs of the armed forces, patriotic songs,
and hymns are the material most favored in these
war times, but there is usually a warm response to
folk music, ballads, and simple old-time airs, espe—
cially if directed by a trained
leader. The need for such
leaders is greater than can be
met in most places, and the
recreation worker who tits
himself for conducting groups
of this kind can render a
genuine service.

‘ (Continued on page 666)

RECREATION

‘

“Monument
Enough"

In a letter which a Kentucky friend

was directed to open after his death'

lrvin Cobb. the humoristI asked that
his ashes be laid at the roots of a
dogwood tree in Paducah at the
proper planting season. "Should the
tree live." continued the author. "that

will be monument enough for rne.ll

LL OVER THE WORLD today Americans are

A giving their lives as members of the

flghting forces of our country.‘ Wher-

ever they have fallen, and wherever they lie
buried, they are heroes who have given that last
full measure of devotion. Many of them will re—
main in hallowed ground in Europe, Asia, Africa,
and the islands of the Pacific, just as men who fell
in World War I remained at Belleau Wood,
Romagne, and other American cemeteries abroad.

At home a grateful people in thousands of com-
munities will wish to honor these heroes, to whom
we cannot do honor enough. When the war is
won we may expect a multitude of projects spon—
sored by cities and towns, veterans’ groups, civic
organizations and others to raise victory monu-
ments to those who will not return. What form
will these take? Will we break out again in a rash
of statues. obelisks and sculptural nightmares that
please only the sculptors and the memorial com-
mittees? We trust not.

There is a movement gathering momentum
today that holds promise of more fitting memori-
als to war heroes than the past has vouchsafed
their memories. It is the sentiment for living me-
morials. It is a movement that is spontaneous,
fostered by no one organization, although here and
there the idea has resulted in the formation of an
official commission on war memorials. Proposals
include memorial buildings at educational instituv
tions, stadia and other structures and establish-
ments of practical character. To us, even more
apprOpriate are the many proposals for memorial
forests and tree—shaded avenues
dedicated to the war dead.

“Expressed in its simplest
terms,” writes Henry Clepper
in an editorial entitled “Living
Memorials for! War Heroes,”

MARCH 1945

"Whether it be park or forest. wild-
life sanctuary or memorial avenueI we
believe that those who have given all
that was in their power to give would
say that it were 'monument enough.l "

 

in the Journal of Forestry, “the thing for which
the youth of America is fighting and dying is
home. What is home? It is not a house, a third-
floor apartment, a hotel bedroom.

“Home is an elm-shaded New England village.
Home is Central Park. Home is moss-draped live 1
oaks alongthe Gulf Coast. Home is the wind-
break on a Dakota farm. It is cottonwoods along
a prairie creek. It is Rocky Mountain National
Park. It is the redwoods. It is outdoor America.”

Already communities are moving to make some
part of outdoor America a memorial to the heroes
of Guadalcanal and Saipan; Bataan and Wake ;«-.
Salerno and Anzio; Avranches and Aachen;
Burma and China, and thousands of other more
obscure battlefields. In several states, cities and
towns have already started the creation of me-
morial forests that will live; that will shelter and
provide havens for the sons and daughters of those
who fell. Elsewhere proposals are being made for
preservation of areas in wild parks, where beauty
and utility may live together in perpetual memory
of those such areas honor.

After World War I the American Tree Asso—
ciation, under the leadership of the late Charles
Lathrop Pack, urged the planting of individual
memorial trees, groves of trees and small forested
areas. Thousands of trees were so planted, dedi-
cated and registered. The idea of living memori-
als is not new but it has been
proved sound. Perhaps un~
fortunately, no such inspira-
tional and non—commercial or-
ganization leads the way today,

(Continued on page 671)
(357

Treasure Chests of Books

ll ET TORCHESl Burn!

Set tire to the books.

Make a bonfire of the
accumulated knowledge, the
centuries-01d, accumulated
knowledge of man. Destroy
with fire Europe’s culture-
hoard. Burn it!”

The order went out. The books were burned.
The odor of their destruction drifted across con~
tinents and oceans. The flames they fed were wild
lire. The holocaust seared a world in its burning.

The flames (are beginning to burn less fiercely
now. The conqueror is no longer all—powerful over
the conquered. The tires are dying out in places.

lut the books are gone, consumed beyond hope of
recall. A generation of chil-
dren is growing up book-
less in Europe.

Can we and our children
do anything about it? Can

A project tor the children of
Europe in which the children
of the playgrounds of America

may have a partl it they will

Girl Scouts. Boy Scouts. and Camp Fire Girls
decorate the first Treasure Chest for France
which was presented at the Book Week luncheon

held in New York City November | lth, on behalf

we in safe America repair in
part, at least, the “damage of
fire? The Book Committee of
the VVomen’s Council for
Post War Europe, Inc., feels
that something can be done,

and has already made a be-n

ginning. There have been difficulties. Plans had
to be made and details worked out. Changes on
the war fronts have occasioned changes in pro-
cedure. But by the opening of Children’s Book
Week in November, a chest of a hundred books
was ready to start on its way to the children of
devastated France. The chest was made and dec-
orated by the Boy and Girl Scouts and the Camp
Fire Girls of New York City. The books were

selected and purchased by

the students of Horace

Mann School. The chest
was presented with cere-

( Continued on page 667)

of the Women's Council for Post War Europe

658

 

‘3‘

RECREATION

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

” M PH I BI AN 5 and Reptiles of South Dakota,”
by W. H. Over. Vermillion, S. D., $.25.

Bees. The Connecticut State Bee Keepers As-
sociation was concerned about the large destruc-
tion of bees. The promiscuous spraying of fruit
trees has killed not only honey bees, but other
useful insects and even the birds that eat the dead
insects. Chemists are trying to find something at-
tractive to obnoxious insects that will lure them to
other localities at Spraying time.

Chiggers. Hardy United States soldiers in war
games in Louisiana were buying nail polish! Ina
vestigation proved that nail polish contains col-
lodion which is good for chigger bites.

Conservation. The New Hampshire Conserva-
tion Council plans to bring out a series of educa-
tional leaflets on Conservation to be used by lead-
ers and youngsters.

. Conservation in Rhode Island. The second Con-
servation Workshop was held at Goddard Park
sponsored by the Rhode Island Wildlife Federa-
tion, the Rhode Island Audubon Society, the
Rhode Island Garden Clubs, and the Rhode Island
State Colleges. Credit was given for “classroom”
work which was mostly in the field. If interested
in obtaining further information write Harold
Madison, Butler Hospital, Providence, R. I.

Deer, according to the Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice is the leading big-game animal in the United
States. Population estimates were as follows:
White-taileddeer, 3,526,000 ; Muledeer, I ,523,000 ;
Columbian Black-tailed
deer, 323,600; Elk, 207,-
700; Prong-horned ante-
lope, 176,600; Black bear,
106,900. Woodland Cari-
bou was lowest in popula—
tion count with fifteen of
them, left in Minnesota.
Grizzly Bear was second
lowest with 1,250 in six
states.

Duck Banding at Mc-
Guines Slough, Chicago,
and at Chatauqua Lake

binding and

MARCH 1945

"I would set forth how guiding Nature turns
her guiding reins. telling with what laws her
providence l<eeps safe this boundless universe.
tying each and all with cords that
never shall be loosed.

"If the bird who sings so lustily upon the high
treetop be caught and cagedI men may minister
to him and feed him with allgentleness on plen- web?
teous food; yet if he fly to the roof of his cage
and see the shady trees he lovesI he spurns with
his foot the food they have put before him;
the woods are all his sorrow calls for."—From
The Consolation of Philosophy, by Boe-
thius. Roman philosopher born about 475 AD.

Refuge near Havana, Illinois has brought an in-
teresting report. 5,909 ducks were banded in one
year. Over half of them were “repeats” or “star
boarders.” One coot flew to Pennsylvania in ‘six
days. Several teal were killed in the West Indies.
Some erratic birds turned around and flew back
north. Birds do not always behave the way the
books say they should!

Ecological Thinking. Skunks eat turtle eggs.
Turtles eat ducklings. Boys trap skunks for fur.
Ducks disappear. Boys stop trapping skunks and
ducks return to nest on the big marsh.

Gardening. “Pest Control in the Home Gar-
den” by Louis Pyenson. The Macmillan C0. 190

pp. Illus. $2.

Home Improvement. “Our Beautiful Yard” by
Clara M. Olson. The University of Florida Pro j- ._
ect in Applied Economics, Room 317, P. K. Yonge
Building, University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla.
66 pp. Illus. $.40.

Sparrow Hawks are of distinct benefit in de-
stroying insects and rodents. They eat grasshop-
pers and field mice instead of sparrows. Mount
Desert was never an after-dinner confection.
Spanish moss is neither Spanish nor moss. A saw
horse is not a horse. Americanese is funny any-
way.

Spider’s Observation Card. Put a spider in a
glass jar and alongside it put an observation card
such as this:

The Crab Spider (misumena vatia) is white
with light red bands on the
side. He “sits” on a flower
and catches insects as they
come near him. Placed on
a yellow flower he will turn
yellow. Which pair of legs
is longest? Why? Why
doesn’t this Spider spin a

Sugar Maple. Perhaps
the automobile and the
ease of getting to market
caused the decline in maple

(Continued on page 672)

659

WORLD AT PLAY

LANSING, Michigan, has
had a gift recently. It is
something special in pres-
ents—forty acres of park
land with a mile of fine river frontage. As a re—
sult of the generosity of R. E. Olds, a citizen of
Lansing, the city now controls both sides of the
Grand River for five miles. An active boat club
goes with the land. The city plans to deve10p a
boat basin with wells for fifty boats and dock space
for many more.

A Gift for
Lansing

 

 

TWENTY different kinds
of vegetables were grown
and cared for by San
Francisco children in
their community gardens which amply supplied
their families with fresh vegetables. The children
also raised many flowers which they took home
with them. Not content with summer gardening,
the children planted winter vegetables.

Victory Gardens
1944

THE INDIANAPOLIS Park

Department maintains in

Holiday Park a center
-jor nature and garden
groups. The building used is an old house that
has been somewhat renovated to provide meeting
rooms, library and office space. The building is
located adjacent to the horticultural area of the
Botanic Garden and to a large natural park.

The director gives full time during the summer
and half time during the winter to the program.
This includes field trips for the study of both
native and horticultural plants, lectures, and group
instruction. The users of the area are about evenly
divided between adults and children. School groups
make use of the facilities, although transportation

difficulties have somewhat curtailed this program
at present.

A Nature Center in
Indianapolis

LAST SUMMER at Hum-
boldt Park, ' Chicago, a
regular Wednesday night
campfire, cook-out, and
song fest was held. To sustain interest a definite
theme was selected for each night. On Gypsy
Night a stew was concocted, and two hundred
youngsters contributed twenty different vege—

Wednesday Night
Cook-Out

 

660

tables with thirty pounds of veal. The Humboldt
Park victory gardens supplied part of the vegeta—
bles. “When two hundred Jewish, Norwegian,
Polish, Negro, Greek, Italian, Danish, and Mexi-
can children can get together for American stew,
without too many ingredients from any one group,
there.certainly is hope for the American way of
life continuing.”

“BRIDLE paths and bicycle
paths in New York City
receive increased use dur-
ing the fall. There are
twenty-nine bicycle paths in the city’s park sys-
tem. They are constantly in use on autumn days
testifying to the high pOpularity of cycling for out-
door recreation. More than seventy miles of bridle
paths wind through the parks, too, an invitation to
combine exercise and delight in the out of doors.

By Horse and
Bike

THE thirty-first observ—
ance of National Negro
Health Week will be held
April 1-8, 1945, under the
auspices of the United States Public Health Ser-
vice. “A healthy family in a healthy home” will be
the objective of the Week. Suggestions for observ—
ing Health Week, posters, and leaflets are available
from the National Negro Health Week Commit-
tee, United States Public Health Service, VVash—
ington I4, D. C.

National Negro
Health Week

THE Columbus, Georgia,
Department of Recrea-
tion and the public schools
have begun a cooperative
program to bring supervised play into the school

Schoolroom Sanction
for Supervised Play

 as part of the regular curriculum. Just now there

is only one thirty-minute play “class” each week,
but plans are afoot for extending the program
until there is a daily period set aside for this ac-
tivity. Weather permitting, active games, folk
dancing, or singing games go forward under the
Supervision of a leader from the Department of
Recreation. On rainy days the playground leader
works with the children inside the school building.
Children look forward to the play programs, and
teachers and principals are quick and loud in their
praises of it.

RECREATION

Still in there pitchin ’

MEMBER: The Athletic Insti-
tute—a non-profit organization

dedicated to the

of national physica lfitn ess.

Let’s all boost the "War Memo-
rials That Live" campaign to
commemorate our war heroes.

He’s a rough, battered old fellow—that “used” golf ball. But he has
a heart of gold. And he’ll still be in there pitchin’ for you in 1945.
Without him and his heart of gold you’ll get no fresh golf balls of
any kind. Should there be any new syntheticnrubber golf balls they
will go to the boys in the services. So keep digging for those used golf
balls. They’re your only hope for “new” golf balls to sell this year.
Send them to us now for rebuilding. Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,

“‘17”?

1571502:
Athletic Goods Mfg. Co., Inc.
Chicago Plant

Chicago, New York and other leading cities.

[Dihson

GOLF EQUIPMENT

advancement

 

J

 

 

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

MARCH 1945

of) l

662 WORLD AT PLA Y

They'll Wani-

Diamond Shoes!
FELLOWS who learned to enjoy the game

of horseshoes in army camps and navy
bases, with Diamond Pitching Shoes, will
call for Diamond Shoes when they get home.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and
Official Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46”) Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

For 1945 Green Thumb Gardeners—The Na-
tional Victory Garden Institute, Inc., 598 Madison
Avenue, New York 22, N. Y., is again sponsoring
a Victory Garden Contest. There will be an adult
division for industrial workers as well as home
gardeners, and a youth division with war bond
awards for the outstanding gardener in the ele—
mentary and high school groups. Each contest—
ant is asked to enter a completed Green Thumb
Record Book issued to everyone entering the con-
test. The book provides the means for keeping a
valuable record of what, when, and how much is
planted and harvested.

“Today,” states a release from the Institute,
“there is every indication that there will be more
gardens and better ones this year than there were
in 1944. Thousands of families are learning for

the first time how good home—grown vegetables
taste and how much fun it is to grow them.”

Negro Center for Newburgh, New York—-
Through the generosity of a citizen of Newburgh,
New York, who willed $100,000 for that purpose,

 

the Negro members of the community will have a
community center. A part of the sum left to the
city will be used to build or buy a suitable house
for the center. The rest will be used for mainte-
nance.

Theater Piece—Barth, Germany, is a name
that is all too familiar to many members of the US.
Air Forces. Just now 3,800 Air Force officers are
held prisoners there by the Germans. We‘ cannot,
of course, know how they spend all their time. A
good slice of it, however, has gone into the crea-
tion of a musical comedy, H it the Bottle. The pro-
duction, mounted on a stage made of Red Cross
cartons, accompanied on musical instruments pro-
vided by the Y.!M.C.A., played to the hilt by
P.Ws., ran for fourteen successful performances.
Even the German captors joined the audience!

Forty Years of Industrial Recreation—The
recreation council of' the Allis-Chalmers Manu-
facturing Corporation is forty years old. The club-
house was opened in 1905, as a commissary and
recreation center for the Allis-Chalmers employees.
Since the war began the Clubhouse has expanded
to meet the new demands. In addition to a well-
rounded program in sports and athletics for both
men and women, Allis-Chalmers employees partici-
pate in an aviation club which has its own planes,
in choral groups and orchestral groups, in chess
and checker clubs. There is, too, a Talent Club
and there are swimming classes for men and
women. The company has its own recreation
council which cooperates closely with recreation
departments of all near-by towns especially with
the department at West Allis where the plant is
located.

Music Note—The Chicago Park District has
added another member to its family of recrea-
tional opportunities. This latest addition is a
music department with its own specialist head and
assistants who will develop music in the Park
District’s recreation program. Community orches-
tras, bands, and choruses are on the agenda for
early development.

Fit for War or Peace—The Committee on
Physical Fitness, Federal Security Agency, be-
lieving that “the wealth of the nation is in the
strength of the people” has prepared. a manual
to help communities organize and maintain a

, RECREATION

WORLD A T PLA Y 663

- \_
O O
M 15 tlme— _ 

 MEMORIALS 
 THAT 

/

LIVE!  

This message is published by the Hillerich Cr Brodsby
Company in furtherance of the plans of The Amer—
ican Commission for Living War Memorials to build
"living" memorials following America's victory in
World War II. Inquiries regarding the work of this
commission should be addressed to Mr. George ‘M.

 

—-— \- ,
IKMLM—i‘ 

 

M17 I

 

’.- '-

R...
f
:59

r.-. «q,

‘0

thoroughgoing and easily accessible physical lit-
ness program. The booklet is designed for easy
and effective use with a wealth of illustrative ma-
terial. COpies of the booklet may be obtained from
the Committee on Physical Fitness, Federal Se-
curity Agency, 601 Pennsylvania Avenue, North-
west, Washington, D. C., or from the Athletic
Institute, 209 South State Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Publicity for Youth Centers -——— The teen-age
“gang” at the Lakeland High School has worked
out its own publicity program for the “Hi-Spot.”
Twice each month the high schoolers publish a
paper, The Bagpipe. Each issue has a whole page
devoted to news about the teen center and the
“doings” that are taking place or are in the making
there. If teen—agers in this Florida town are un-
aware of their own club they just don’t read their
own paper!

Negro Community Building—Members of
the Carver Foundation of Norwalk, Connecticut,

MARCH 1945

Troutmon, 30 East Broad St., Columbus, Ohio.

 LOUISVILLE sums BTS

have succeeded in raising $25,000 with which they
have purchased an old home and renovated it as a
community building for use of the Negro popula-
tion. A general community program will provide
a variety of interests in this center, to be known
as the Carver Foundation Annex. In the mean-
time, the hope is to raise more money until the
fund is large enough to build a modern community
building—Recreation Bulletin for November 25,
1944, published by the Division of Recreation, Fed-
eral Security Agency, Washington, D. C.

  
   
    

Both National regulation “hardball” and
‘ “softball” bases are used as the standard
in many leagues and recreational depart-
ments. Guaranteed to give long playing
satisfaction. National patented reversible
softball bases have provon extremely
popular. Write for complete details.

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
365 mucus": - tone on LAC. WIS.

664 EVART G. ROUTZAHN

Evart G. Routzahn

ECENTLY THE Elisabeth S. Prentiss National

Award in Health Education was presented to
Evart G. Routzahn and Mary Swain Routzahn.
This award is of interest to recreation workers
because Mr. Routzahn, before his death, and his
wife always had been ready to help the recreation
movement. Thirty-live years ago, when the recre-
ation movement was in its pioneer stages, Mr.
Routzahn went out of his way to give all aid in
his power to the new movement. He was con-
cerned that everything possible should be done to
build it up. He always recognized the value of
recreation for its own sake as well as a factor in
building individual and public health.

At the meeting where the Award was made,
there was recognition of Mr. Routzahn’s delight
in unusual toys, gadgets or tools, of his collecting
instinct, of how his friends brought odd toys to
him from their trips abroad. “Perhaps what was
really unusual about his love of ingenious gadgets
was his complete and frank acceptance of them.
Most of us in our struggle to be adult feel apolo—
getic about playing with Junior’s electric train or
peering over the heads of the crowd to see the
exhibit in a store window. Not unlike this quality
was E.G.R.’s complete identification with every-
day people.”

Many mentioned Evart G. Routzahn’s “tonic
humor.” His criticism was frank and outSpoken,
but always with a smile. No matter how busy he
was, he always had time for his garden. He was
guided by a deep enthusiasm, and always he hated
dullness. His own spirit was such that he belonged
in a peculiar way to the national recreation move—
ment. HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

 

A New Way to Use Old Firehouses—One of
the most ° portant planks in the platform of Cin—
cinnati’s lick-term recreation planning is the de-
velopment of a practical program of activities in
each of the city’s neighborhoods. To this end the
Recreation Department “keeps its eye peeled” for
suitable buildings for neighborhood centers. One
such center was set up in an abandoned firehouse.
Its rehabilitation was financed by the Fraternal
Order of Police. A trained leader from the Recre—

ation Department helps guide policies and develop
activities.

Citation—The Los Angeles Civic Chorus,
noted for years as one of the West’s outstanding
choral groups, has taken a leading part in wartime
musical activities—in war bond drives and patri-
otic rallies, and special concerts for servicemen
and women. Because its contribution to the war
effort has been considered outstanding this group,
sponsored by the Los Angeles City Recreation
Department, received from the Music War Coun—
cil the Distinguished Service Citation “for dis—
tinguished service to our country through patriotic
and inspiring use of music to aid the national

effort.”

Pets in the Home

(Continued from page 631)

may attract some of the hole-nesting birds, and
trees and shrubs provide additional nesting spots.
The crowding of nesting sites is inadvisable, as
most birds require nesting space and will not ap—
propriate boxes too close to others of the same
species. Boxes must be built for particular species
of birds, as requirements of hole openings, size of
rooms, and other details differ.

Food and water are two other requirements of
birds that attract them to yards. Feeding trays,
winter feeding shelters, suet venders, and water
containers all are usable. Winter feeding is par-
ticularly fruitful, as birds have difficulty securing
adequate supplies after heavy snows. Summer
feeding is less needed from the birds’ point of view,
but it makes possible close observation and “tam-
ing” of birds.

Sometimes young birds and injured birds are
found and'attempts are made to make pets of them.
Generally young birds who have just left the nest
should not be picked up, as the parents will care
for them if they are not disturbed. When accidents
have befallen parent birds, feeding of the young
may be necessary for their survival. Feeding is,
however, difficult, because food should approxi-
mate natural foods and be given in small quanti-
ties a great number of times a day. Injured birds
seldom survive without expert care, and killing
is generally the most humane treatment.

Crows, if captured young, make interesting and
amusing pets. Crows are among the most intel—
ligent of birds, and with proper training they can
be given the freedom of the yard. They tend to be
noisy, mischievous, and thieving. They may be-
come quite attached to an individual and exceed-

ineg demanding in attention. Starlings and jays

RECREATION

l

.PETS IN THE HOME 665

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING S "IN ACTION" IN THE SPACIOUS GAME ROOM OF THE
N. C. C S.-USO CLUB LOCATED IN JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

This unique, PORTABLE Two-Way Bowling Alley (requiring NO INSTAL—
LATION COST!) is proving to be one of the leading game-units, now
Included in RECREATION PROGRAMS all over the country. Because at
its E-Z set—up features, solid construction and convenient size, the
alley is perfectly adapted for immediate use as well as for postwar

building plans.

We urge you to send for complete information and descriptive
literature including many. many letters praising the good, clean com-
petitive fun and relaxation derived from Two-Way Bowling. . . . Mail

the coupon today! No obligation.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828 0 .

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

are two other birds that seem to do well as home

!

pets. 5

Other Pets. Many of the lower forms of animal
life are also kept as pets in the home. They gen—
erally show little response to peOple, but the chance
to observe and study them close at hand makes
keeping them worth while.

Frogs, toads, salamanders, and turtles should be
provided with a marsh-type terrarium in which
both land and water are available. Such a ter-
rarium may be a rectangular glass container with
a built—up land area at one side, with marsh and
woodland plants.

The woodland and desert-type terrariums can
provide habitats for lizards and small snakes. It
must always be remembered that certain species

MARCH 1945

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
H4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..

Addrett ............................................................ ..
City ...................................... .. State ................ ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. a

  

cannot be kept together lest one be used as food
by the other.

Can You Meet These Tests?

There are certain criteria relative to keeping
pets in the home. The following are a few of the
tests to be applied:

I. Can proper conditions of housing, food, and
care be provided? No animals, large or small,
should be kept unless all three of these conditions
can be met. Good references on proper care and
feeding are available and should be consulted.

M©0U7Ru BEER-COVERED
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

Mlgd. by Wu]. Vii! Rubber (om—1600 E. ZSIh SL. los Angeles II
V (hltago Branch—180 llo. Watker Drive-lone 6

 

666 NATIONAL MUSIC WEEK—[1945

COSTUMES
...T0 RENT

for Plays, Pageants, and Festivals

Special Rates to High Schools
VAN HORN & SON 311 CHESTNUT ST.

PHILA. 7, PENNA.
Established 1852

Theatrical Costumers

2. Will the pets have kindly care? Here is a
chance to teach children responsibility and con—
sideration for animals. There is a middle-of—the-
road attitude towards animals that avoids over—
sentimentality and yet assures kindliness, under-
standing, and respect for the needs and innate
character of animals. -

3. Do you know the legal restrictions on the. '

keeping of animals? The laws differ in the various
states.

4. Do you understand the nature and require-
ments of your pet? Is it an animal that can
stand handling?

Some Source Material

The following references will be of great help
in solving the problems- involved in pet care:

Our Small Native Animals -— Their Habits and
C are, by Robert Snediger. Random House, New
York. ‘—

The Book of Wild Pets, by Clifford B. Moore.
G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York.

All Pets Magazine. Published by the Lightner
Publishing Company, Chicago, Illinois.

The Hut

(Continued from page 655)

over countless numbers of rocks, and all this is
done with little more than their hands, a file, a
spoon for a hammer, a knife.”

HUNTING GAME (Patent)

Device_ for knocking down animals moving 50 to 100 feet
per minute. Size: 9' high, 4' wide, 10' long (Including
shooting stand). Operated last summer at Recreation

P_ark, Valparaiso, lnd., with great success. For informa—
tion, subject to trials, write

LOUIS HENDRICKS, Inventor
R. R. 5, Valparaiso, Indiana "

 

 

Mrs. Thomas J. Blain

N JANUARY 11, 1945, Mrs. Mary Wood

Blain, Chairman of the Westchester County
Recreation Commission and of the Port Chester
Recreation Commission, died after a brief illness.
She became a charter member of the Westchester
County Recreation Commission in 1924 and for
two years had served as Chairman. In 1936 she
became Chairman of the Port Chester Recreation
Commission.

Recreation leaders from over the country were
happy to have Mrs. Thomas J. Blain with them'
at the Recreation Congress gatherings, to feel her
deep interest, her enthusiasm, her readiness to give
generously of her strength to build the whole na-
tional movment, as well as to carry responsibility
in her own locality. Her going is a loss to all who
are interested in recreation in this country.

National Music Week—'l6945

(Continued from page 656)

Community recreation workers should seek some
way by which they can take advantage of Music
Week, to the benefit of their year-round work. It
is an ideal time to focus attention on the formation
of musical groups, the need for musical equipment,
the enjoyment and personality benefit obtainable
through self-expression in music in a social-recre-
ational program. If there is a°community Music
Week Committee, it should be contacted. If not,
there is opportunity for taking the initiative in

,_ forming a committee, or at least for independent

participation.

National Music Week is a cooperative move-
ment of the musical forces of the nation. The Na-
tional Committee is composed of the presidents of
thirty-four national organizations, which include:
Music Educators National Conference, National-
Federation of Music Clubs, Music Teachers Na-
tional Association, Music War Council of America,
General Federation of Women’s Clubs, Daughters
of the American Revolution, Federal Council of
Churches, Kiwanis International, Lions Interna—
tional, National Recreation Association, and Y.M..

and Y.W.C.A.’s.

Victory Gardens— I 944 Model

(Continued from page 639)

There would be garden films shown in the after-
noon and in the evening each day of the show.
When the Festival days arrived, the results jus-

RECREATION

TREASURE CHESTS OF BOOKS 667

tihed all the work and the planning. Twice as
many exhibitors showed as in 1943. Three hun-
dred and fifty ribbons were awarded to prize—win-
ning exhibits. There was “much more food, many
more healthy and satisfied people in Oak Park.

The Committee members were amply rewarded 

for their time and their effort. They think it likely
that when peace brings the end of the immediate
and urgent need for Victory Gardens there will
still be enthusiastic gardeners victorious because

they have found a sure way to contentment and'

relaxation.

Treasure Chests of Books.
(Continued from page 658)

mony by representative children of America to
children representing countries overrun by war.

This first chest was an earnest of others to
‘ come later. The Book Committee hoped and be-
lieved that other children all over the United
States would carry on the job of sending other
treasure chests of books to other countries.

It seemed possible that some groups would not
be ready to undertake so large a project as the
hundred book chest, so for them the Committee
has suggested a smaller chest of thirty books. That
children should have an active part in reading and
selecting the books to be sent is part of the plan.
A list of suitable books has been prepared. From
this the selections should be made. The books in
the list are divided into twelve categories suggest-

ing the distribution of the various types of books.

These categories are as follows:
' Picture books
Information about the world
Stories from the United States

Stories from South and Central America
Stories from other countries

Folk tales of the world

Faiths of the world

Songs of the world

Nature and science

Dictionaries

Christmas books
Two scrapbooks might well be included in the
chest. One of them should be filled up with pictures,
drawings, information about the group donating or
decorating the chest. The other should be blank,
included on the chance and in the hope that the

youngsters who receive the books might want to

fill it with similar material and return it to the
donor group. '

The country to which the chest is to go is to be
the choice of the donor group. Instructions for

MARCH 1945

MACGRFGOR-GOLDSMITH Inc.

JOHN I) FINDLQV srs. CIMCtIIIIA‘II IQ. OHIO. "JuA.

In every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation,
Goldsmith Sports Equipment is rec-
ognized as a hallmarlhof quality
and unyarying performance.

Army-Navy "E ' awarded.
SPORT PRODUCTS. Inc..

 

5",
making and decorating the chests, the list of books

for selection, and shipping instructions will be sent
on request. Letters of inquiry should be addressed
to Mme. Ninon Tallon, Book Committee of
VVomen’s Council for Post War Europe, Inc., 366
Madison Avenue, New York 17, New York.

Honors to .a Recreation Park
(Continued from page 633)

An Azalea Trail which will be as colorful as the
one leading from Biloxi to New Orleans along the
north shore of the Gulf of Mexico has been
started. Silviculture is being used to clear away
brush around the larger trees or around graceful
groups of trees such as white birches. But the king
of Stanley Park is the big “Enchanted Oak,”
which widely spreads its branches to reign over
the rest of the woods. It stands aloof, the better
to show its ancient bole, and the cleared circle
around it is as dimly lit and quiet as a cathedral.

Over at the picnic grounds is the cement foun-
dation for the “rancho,” one of thOse indoor-out-
door kitchens roofed over to house huge fireplaces

Manufacturers. Cincinnati. 0.

668 "

and barbeques with room enough for the picnick—
ers to come inside and eat if the weather turns
wet. This is to be completed as soon as priorities

permit.

No park is complete without its lake, and the
one gracing Stanley Park is a spring lake whose
cool placid waters lie at the foot of a laurel covered
dingle. In season, big white Pekin ducks float
primly on its surface. Altogether, it is a charming
rustic place in which to retire of a summer’s day
or evening and the company, as well as the town
itself, awaits the happy V-E day when Mr. Beve-
ridge’s elaborate plans for the postwar future of
Stanley Park can take progressive and definite

shape.

 

Dancing Plus
(Continued from page 653)

about twenty-two boys and girls. Some were car-
ried over from the 1942-43 school year; others had
been selected by the sponsors because of the inter-
est and ability they had shown, while a few were
chosen to represent schools, Hi-Y and Girl Re-
serve groups. Now the Co-Ed Committee is
elected by the members of the club instead of being
appointed by the sponsors. Members of the club
are serving on a number of subcommittees which

have been set up as follows:

Publicity. which makes and sends out the folders
of programs, sends out special flyers of events,
makes announcements and posters of coming ac-

tivities.
Door. whose members collect the fees at the
dances and check memberships.

Entertainment. which provides various kinds of
special events at dances.

Food. responsible for refreshments on Casanova
Night and other special occasions.

Newspaper. set up to issue a sheet containing
news about the club, its activities, and its members.

Decorations, which decorates the dance hall.

Sports. plans and promotes the monthly Sports
Nite.

Music. sees that the juke box records are kept
up to date and hires the orchestra for special dances.

Membership. promotes membership and contacts
inactive members.

This setup makes it possible to draw many mem-
bers into the activities, as well as to train them
for possible Co-Ed Committee jobs in the future.

DANCING PLUS

Membership Policies

The membership policy, too, has been changed.
The previous year the dances had been the only
program conducted, and they had been open to
high school age boys and girls who paid a 15 cent
admission fee. At the beginning of the fall pro-
gram of 1943, it was suggested to the committee
that the program might be put on a club member-
ship basis which would make membership a pre-
requisite to participation in any activity. The com-
mittee approved this idea and worked out a plan
whereby each person who joined filled out a card
giving certain basic information, such as name,
address,_age, school, name of parents and parents’
occupation, church preferences, and other facts.
Each boy and girl entering the club paid a 25 cent
membership fee and received a card. On the nights
when discussion groups were held there was no
further charge, the membership card alone admit-
ting a member. However, on dance nights, in-
cluding Casanova Nite, there was a I 5 cent fee in
addition to the membership card, and refreshments
were offered for sale.

This year the same general policy holds with
some minor changes. For example, the original
25 cent membership fee expires the first of March;
the next one is good until only October 1945.
Furthermore on Casanova Nite there is now a 30
cent charge which includes refreshments. Although
we have been registering only about six weeks, we
have approximately 175 members now, a number
which compares very favorably with the number
at the same period last year.

Evaluation

In a general review and evaluation of our pro-
gram several facts seem to stand out: The group
now has a club feeling. No longer are the dances
public affairs but a club membership responsibility.
In consequence the behavior has improved tre-
mendously. Chairs are no longer tossed about;
wrestling and scuffling are a thing of the past. The
same boys and girls who created bedlam at the first
discussion group by talking at the same time have
learned to conduct themselves in an orderly man-
ner with a minimum of disturbances.

The growth of the club program demonstrates
very graphically how agencies can and should co-
operate for the good of the community when they
put their jobs first and maintain their agency
identity as a secondary consideration.

RECREATION

THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SCIENCE ROOM 669

The Elementary School Science Room
(Continued from page 643)

These animals must receive the same thoughtful
attention given a pet dog in one’s home.

Rats, white and hooded, guinea pigs, rabbits
(already domesticated) make line pets. As for
wild mammals, or wild birds, it has been the ex—
perience of many science teachers that injured
animals, strays, and abandoned young are often
brought to school by pupils, parents and others in
the community. In most cases such hapless vic-
tims would notsurvive if left to their own resources
in their natural habitat. These may serve a good
educational purpose in the school, if cared for in
captivity under proper conditions, for to provide
the right conditions requires a knowledge of the
food and habits of the animals in the wild. Through
caring for them, pupils can learn a great deal about
the common animals of the neighborhood, and
young squirrels, chipmunks, racoons, skunks,
woodchucks, deermice, and meadow mice make
entertaining as well as instructive pets. It should
be borne in mind, however, that it is not sound
conservation education and certainly not humane
to rob nests and homes, take young from parents,
or keep any wild animals in captivity indefinitely
if they can be released and survive.

The type of mammal cage most easily cleaned is
made of hardware cloth of one—quarter inch or
one-half inch mesh with a wooden frame and mesh
top, sides and iloor. A galvanized metal pan
should be fitted beneath the screen flooring of the
cage. This is easily pulled out and washed daily
and, if sterilized at least once a week can be kept
free from odors.

Climbing mammals should have relatively tall
cages with a portion of a tree upon which to climb.
All of them require a nest box and plenty of clean
water. The food requirements are varied and can
easily be ascertained from one of several good
books on the subject. Naturally one science room
would become nothing but a small 200 if all the
mammals mentioned here were included at one
time, but any school system which maintained a
collection of domestic animals to circulate among
its several schools would find the animals a source
of unending delight and instruction to the children.

Using the Science Room

One teacher or a committee of teachers must of
necessity sponsor the science room but the boys
and girls should have a large share in it and they

MARCH 1945

   
   

S r {m
AMERICAgUNlOR RED CROSS

President Roosevelt has designated

March as Red Cross month. the

period when the I945 Red Cross
War Fund will be raised

 

 

I\

love to participate. The setting up of all terraria
and aquaria and the care of all the animals and
plants should be the work ofrvthe children, always
with the supervision of a teacher. Care of the
science room by individual pupils develops in them
a sense of responsibility. It offers them tine op-
portunities for close and frequent observation and
leads them to an appreciation of living things.

Children are ardent collectors, and making a
collection for the science room is a line outlet for
their enthusiasm. Tree leaves, weeds of the neigh-
borhood, seeds, insects, insect homes, native rocks
and minerals, and birds’ nests (taken in winter
only) are some of the objects easily gathered.

With all-the living material in it, no science
room can become a dull and static place, but the
children’s activities can also enliven it. One class
may invite another to see a demonstration of simple
experiments on air pressure. A question comer in
which some object is displayed for identification
or where a question is posted to be answered by
observing some particular thing in the room, can
be a lot of fun. The school weather bureau should
have its headquarters here and hang out the
weather flags daily. Electric questioners are fun
to make and use.

As mentioned earlier, charts and models made
by individual classes for some particular unit

\

670 " NATURE [5 FUN!

,2

should eventually be displayed in the science room.
Each class then has the satisfaction of sharing a
worthwhile experience with others. The exhibition
of many different projects gives the youngsters a
better picture of the whole field of science. In a
room full of interesting things, important concepts
can be taught easily.

"What's the Name of My Bird?"

(Continued from page 624)
“giddyaps” to his horse or pushes in a lever, and

we are both satisfied.

I’ve been bird watching for twenty-five years
and have yet to encounter the dull season in bird-
life. And there are always surprises: new birds
wandering far out of their natural range; summer
‘birds staying over through a mild winter; finding
the nest of a little-known species, or discovering a
new customer at the old feeding stand. Because
‘birds are alive and in some ways unpredictable in
their actions, no bird student ever finds his hobby
growing stale.

Nature Is Fun!

r (Continued from page 621)

Set it down and don’t disturb it while you watch.
:Soon the shell will open slightly and a tiny finger-
like process, called a foot, will be thrust forth,
feeling tentatively here and there. Then this finger
begins to move back and forth from contact with
the basin to contact with a gland inside, and deli-
.cate, pearly-white elastic threads result. You can
.lift the mussel shell and test the elasticity of the
threads, and prolong the experiment to determine
how long it takes for the thread to turn brown and
acquire strength at the expense of elasticity.
Where there are hermit crabs living in snail
:shells, an interesting adventure is to collect a num-
ber of them, and very gently but firmly with a
steady pull, remove them from their shells, big and
little, and place them in a basin of sea water. Then
add the shells and watch the scramble for a new
home. They feel the shells over with their claws,
.and then turn and back their soft rear ends in like
lightning, often in their haste entering a shell that
does not fit well at all. Return them all later to the
sea so they can secure homes that suit them. One’s

adventures can’t be truly happy if they are need-
lessly destructive or cruel.

Have You Ever Looked a Lion in the Eye?

Where mammals are available in a zoo or a

farming community, it is interesting to investigate
the shapes of pupils of eyes. What started me off
was finding in a book the statement that lions,
being of the cat tribe, have eyes like cats with a
perpendicular lens-shaped pupil. So I put this in
a mimeographed “see-it-for-yourself” guide on a
zoo. (This was before I learned to question the
printed word.) What we saw I leave you to find
out the first time you get a chance to look a lion in
the eye. A companion. surprise is the eye of a fox,
which is in the dog tribe. Solve that for yourself,
too. How many animals can you find that have
horizontal quadrilaterals, slightly rounded at the
ends, for pupils?

A Novel Kind of Treasure Hunt

In a land of frequent rain there is a specially
delightful adventure. I invented and used it in
Washington and Oregon and named it a “Dead
Stick Treasure Hunt.” For there, in the woods,
every dead branch or twig soon becomes covered
with a great variety of fungi, lichens, and mosses.
Silver gray, ruby red, soft green, russet brown,
pale gold, or jet black—all are utterly exquisite in
their dainty, fragile forms. The game is to scatter
through the woods and hunt for a stick bearing the
loveliest treasures, discarding each as you find a
better one. You go home loaded with treasure and
infinitely richer because you have become aware of
lavish beauty hitherto completely overlooked. A

fallen tree trunk in the same area can yield hours
of delight.

Out of my treasure store of happy adventures I
have picked a mere handful to share with you in
the hope you will catch the spirit and be moved to
use the same method of discovering for yourself,
every sense alert, the surprises, the wonder, the
beauty that surround you.

“The world is so full of a number of things.”

—.

Patterns for Publicity in Radio

( Continued from page 649)

posal. Cut your pattern to fit your cloth. The final
criterion must be .what kind of thing you can do
best considering what you have to work with.
Place and keep your standards high, keep your
audience and your. purpose in mind, know your
own limitations and the limitations of the station
over which you will broadcast, and whatever pro-
gram you do, make it good.

RECREATION

A SCHOOLYARD SANCTUARY 671

A Schoolyard Sanctuary

(Continued from page 627)

The city of Joliet, Illinois, has for many years
had a‘forester on its school staff whose responsi—
bility has been the conducting of field trips and
other outdoor educational programs in the parks
and woodlands of the city. Class groups are often
taken afield by the forester as a part of their regu-
lar science instruction.

Children’s Activities Museums are another im—
portant feature of the nature program for school
children. This project is not new, but just before
the war it received adde'd impetus, partly through
the efforts of school and recreation groups. These
museums are activity centers rather than mere
showplaces for displays. Children’s museums have
generally provided three types of services: First,
they have made available visual materials for the
use of groups in the museums ,or for loan to class-
rooms, clubs, or even individuals. Second, the chil-
dren’s museums have provided workshops in which
young people might develop various science and
craft hobbies. The San Francisco Junior Museum
administered by the Municipal Recreation Depart-
ment has been a beehive of activity for nature
hobbyists, model aircraft builders, and others of
like interests. Third, many of the children’s mu—
seums have been the centers from which field trips
of various kinds might emanate, with leadership
provided through the museum staff. In the post—
war period cities might well give more considera-
tion to activity museums where individuals might
pursue their hobbies with the help of competent
leadership.

Among cities with outstanding children’s muse-
ums maintained by public school funds are St.
Louis, Missouri, and Reading, Pennsylvania.
Cities with children’s museums administered and
maintained by municipal recreation departments
include San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Palo Alto,
California. The great majority of other children’s
museums are administered by separate museum
boards or as a part of the general natural history
museum program.

Some of the trailside museums developed in
parks near large centers of population have served
in some of the capacities mentioned. This state-
ment is notably true in Cincinnati, Ohio, where
regular children’s groups participate in the hobby
club activities of the museum, and where school

services and children’s field trips are a part of the
activities of the museum’s staff.

MARCH 1945

 

 

you Gan Use

THE IOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS
0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education. and recreation. Over, 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important

to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION- FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

The National Audubon Society has maintained
near Greenwich, Connecticut, a sanctuary designed
to serve as a demonstration of a special type of
area and facility for school use. A small museum
and nature trails are maintained and a naturalist.
employed in an area set aside entirely for outdoor
education purposes. School groups are brought to"
the area on a regular schedule, and the naturalist
takes over instruction in the field.

Where sanctuaries, trailside museums and na-
ture trails, naturalists, or children’s museums are
available, schools have been quick to avail them-e
selves of the services provided. Where schools
themselves cannot provide 'outdoor laboratories
and services, the municipal recreation agencies.
may here render a service to the schools, in addi4
tion to carrying on their regular nature programs
for the general public. Public parks, zoos, botanic
gardens, wildlife preserves, bird sanctuaries, and‘.
community forests are only a few of the types of

facilities owned by cities that might well render
distinctive service in years to come.

"Monument Enough"
(Continued from page 657)
although millions of lovers of the outdoors, through
organizations to which they belong, are more and
more urging that memorials of World War II be
living Ones.

To this we should like to add our voice.
Whether it be park or forest, wildlife sanctuary or
memorial avenue, we believe that those who have
given all that was in their power to give would

say that it were “monument enough.” — From
Nature Magazine, December 1944.

672 WISCONSIN’S RANGER MAC

 

 

 

  

A. S. BARNES AND COMPANY

Wisconsin's Ranger Mac
(Continued from page 651)
self through the fields, sometimes aided by a
younger brother.

When Mac presented a program on bird and
animal tracks recently, he asked his listeners to see
how many trails they could identify from his de-
scriptions. The replies are still coming in, but at
last count nearly a thousand letters had been re—
ceived, more than half of them signed by a dozen
or more children.

Among the replies was one from the fifth grade
of the Janesville, Wisconsin, School for the Blind.
It was written in Braille, with penciled transla-
tions by Jean Miller, “secretary.” The sightless
children had identified all of the tracks.

McNeel’s radio work began as a hobby, and has
remained one for ten years. His 4-H Club work is
still the occupation for which he is paid, and in it
he travels the state encouraging conservation and
nature studies. The research and writing essential
to production of the program is done on Sunday,
Mac’s “day off.” He takes no time from his’regu-
lar job except the half-hour for his Monday morn-
ing broadcast.

Much in demand as a school lecturer, the nature

‘ The Perfect Hobby Book!

No recreation leader can afford to be without this book of
precious ideas! The well known author has included the
most interesting and unusual pastimes for the laid-up or
convalescent probably ever gathered together in one book.
Brigadier General De Voe, Commanding Officer of Hal-
loran General Hospital, states in his foreword: “The
techniques developed by the author make each suggestion
both a challenge and a temptation.”

Here are ideas and directions for a dozen or more activities of a practical, constructive and, 'if de-
sired, even a remunerative nature. The crafts are well selected and exceedingly varied—ranging all
the way from chip carving to By making. .Liyely”a‘r‘1d practical chapters .suggest such hobbies as
“Sketching from Scratch,” “Music Apprec1at10n, Nature from Your Window, _ o
For undiluted entertainment there are three chapters of games, puzzles and magic. The drawmgs
are gay and charming, as well as clearly instructive. An intriguing book.

Send for our complete catalog

   

PASTIMES FOR
THE PATIENT

By MARGUERITE ICKIS

 
    
    
 
  

 

     
 
   
   
   
 
   
    

9,

 
 

and many others.

 
   
 

Illustrated, $3.00

 
    

67 WEST 44th STREET
NEW YORK 18, N. Y.

      

enthusiast reports that children who have heard
him regularly on the air are always disappointed
to see a business-like man in a dignified business
suit.

“I guess they expect to see me wearing a wide-
brimmed hat, boots, and breeches,” Mac com—
mented. “As a matter of fact, I do dress that way
when we go out planting trees or are doing out-
door work, but I’ve always felt it would be out-of
place on the speaker’s platform”

Mac closes all of his broadcasts and public
lectures with the same heartwarming thought, an
old Indian farewell which he accompanies with
sign language when on the lecture platform:

“May the Great Spirit put sunshine in your

heart, today and forevermore, heap much !”

Copyright, 1944, by Esquire, Inc., 919 N. Michigan Ave...
Chicago, Ill. (Coronet, August 1944)

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 659)

sugar production. Perhaps rationing will bring it
back. Ideal weather is thawing days and freezing
nights. Fuel should be collected ahead of time. The
boiling pan should be large and shallow. Farmer’s
Bulletin I 366, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
will be a big help.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Pastimes for the Patient

By Marguerite Ickis. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York 18. $3.00.

HIS EXCEEDINGLY timely book will find a responsive
audience at just this time when community groups are
realizing the problem they are facing in providing re-
turned servicemen who are temporarily disabled with en-
joyable activities for the hours they must spend indoors.
Pastimes for the Patient, with its suggestions for crafts.
hobbies, games, puzzles, and many other recreation activi-
ties, is a family book, too—full of suggestions not only
for members of the family who may be ill or convalesc-
ing, but for the entire family in its free time.
There is a wide field Of service for this book.

Modern Dance

By Ruth Radir. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York
18. $2.50.

DANCE AS A MEANS of communicating ideas and feelings

by groups is the subject of this book designed as a
text for teachers of the dance in high schools and colleges.
Part I, in such chapters as “Modern Dance in Relation
to Our Culture” and “Dance as Education,” is concerned
primarily with the historical background and philosophi-
cal implications Of the “modern” dance. The second part
Of the book deals chiefly with techniques and their ap-
plications. '

School's Out

Béngara Lambert. Harper and Brothers, New York.

“IT IS THE SCHOOL-AGE CHILD, the child between the ages

Of five and fourteen, who is the ‘forgotten child,’ ”
says Clara Lambert. School’s Out is the record of achieve-
ment in helping this age solve the problems of its “tragic
era.” A discussion of program, of materials, and methods
Used in play schools; a chapter on community planning
for play schools; a section on home-school relations, are
some of the factors that will make the book valuable
reading for everyone who has to deal with children in
this topsy-turvy world.

Dramatic Director's Handbook

Ernest Bavely. Editor. National Thespian Society, Col—
lege Hill Station, Cincinnati 24, Ohio. $1.50.

HE REVISED EDITION of the Dramatic Director’s Hand—

book is divided into three parts. Part I is a course on
“How to Teach High School Dramatics” by Katharine
A. Ommanney. Part II represents the result of a study
by a group of experienced drama leaders on the organiza-
tion and management of a drama club. Part III contains
suggestions on play production from selecting the play to
publicizing the performance. Though designed primarily
for the use of high schools, the booklet has much valu~
able information for any drama leader.

MARCH 1945

Roller Skating

By Bob Martin. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York
18. $1.25.

“ROLLER SKATING has grown up!” and this is a book

addressed to adult devotees of an adult sport. The
author has limited his subject to “instruction in the
primary phases of roller skating,” in which there are,
apparently, six steps, learning to skate correctly, learn-
ing the fundamentals which lead to skate dancing,
primary iigure skating, fundamentals of free style skat-
ing, basic speed skating. Graphic line drawings and charts
are used to illustrate the text.

Gateways to Readable Books

By Ruth Strang, Alice Checkovitz, Christine Gilbert,
Margaret Scoggin. The H, W. Wilson Company, New
'York. $1.25. .

CHOOLMEN IN RECENT YEARS have been increasingly

concerned to help the school child who reads slowly
and poorly. More than five years ago a short bibliography
for retarded readers of high school age was prepared at
Teachers College, Columbia University, and enthusiasti-
cally received upon its publication. The present volume
aims to carry forward the values of the iirst bibliogra-
phy, tO suggest suitable reading material for bOys ‘and
girls who have adequate mental ability but who find it
difficult to keep up with their grades in high school
because they have not learned to read easily and quickly.
The list of books is broken down into subject classifica-
tions and the level Of difficulty is indicated for each

volume. I

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board Of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCH_ER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

M as. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd. Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRs. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y. ,

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

673

674 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MUNICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION

As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

\

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the adminiStration aspecrs of
their department and its correlation with Other departments of city government. Special emphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play-
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and
reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each

lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfaCtory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently wrote, "Truthfully I cannot remember any

effort on my part which has paid 015I in dividends to quickly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATIoN

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles of 1
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

safety Education, February 1945
Tough But Safe, Vaughn S. Blanchard

Scholastic Coach, January 1945
Living War Memorials (Special Issue)

H ygeia, February 1945 ..
Physical Fitness in War and Peace, Frank S. Lloyd

Journal of Health and Physical Education, January 1945

Interpreting Our Program to the Public, a Commit-
tee Report

Children Consider the Dance Program, Delia P.
Hussey

Physical Education for Living, C. H. McCloy
Some Contributions of Physical Education to An
Educated Life, D. Oberteuffer

The Camping Magazine, January 1945

Camping Around the Year, Genevieve Clayton, Louise
Fargher, Marguerite Norris Davis

An All-Weather Canoe Shed, Barbara Ellen Joy

Kansas Government Journal, N ovember 1944
War Memorials

Coronet, February 1945
Legacy to the Living, Edith M. Stern

|3|3 East 60th Street, Chicago 37, Illinois

 

‘3—

‘W

Beach and Pool, January 1945

Artificial Respiration Methods Tested, Alice L.

O’Connell

Aquatic Woman Power
Post-War Swimming Pool Survey, Ernie Stengel

Parks and Recreation, January-February 1945

The Maintenance Mart
Conservation Versus Vandalism, Roberts Mann
Major Park Projects Planned for Rockford, Earl F.

Elliot
PAMPH LETS

Review of Cycling, 2nd Annual, 1945
Nordquist Publishing Co., East Hartford, Conn.

Coastline Plans and 'iélction

(For the development of the Los Angeles metropoli-
tan coastline) Published by the Haynes Founda-
tion, Los Angeles

Jewish Community Center ..
Jewish Community Center, San Diego, Calif.

Annual Report, Municipal Athletic Association

Department of Municipal Recreation, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin

Planning for American Youth

An Education Program for Youth of Secondary
School Age, National Association of Secondary
School Principals, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W.,
Washington 6, D. C. Price 25 cents

Goals for Children and Youth in the Transition from
War to Peace

U. S. Department of Labor, Children’s Bureau,
Children in Wartime, No. 5, Bureau Publication
306, Superintendent of Documents, Washington
25, D. C. Price 5 cents

RECREATION

