 

A... Deeper Note in Recreation

EVERY MAN unconsciously is seeking “what has significance for me, what gives me
permanent satisfaction, what has real value."

Recreation leaders must ever be searching to be sure they have some idea for their own
people—“What is the bread by which my people live?”

It is not for the'leisure leader to control the individual’s free time openly or in a
hidden 'way.
After all, in the end the individual must make his own choices, must determine his

own free activity. No one can live another person's life for him. We do not want
authoritarianism in leisure.

Except that we must restrain any one individual when he uses his freedom to inter-
fere with another’s freedom or to work injustice, we do not even want to compel
any man to live, to live well.

It is for the recreation leader to make the climate, the atmosphere, the surroundings
congenial to the soul of man so that he may easily find for himself romance.

adventure, growth in all his powers, capacity to do more each year as long as he
lives, more that really permanently satisfies.

However, as the earning of food, clothing, shelter becomes more mechanized recreation
leaders must increasingly ask themselves what can be done in the leisure hours to
compensate for the loss of opportunity for real living with other human beings in

the working hours.

What are the human needs that remain unmet?

How can our recreation planning down at the grass roots build living in the home, the
church, the neighborhood in every natural relationship of life? How can the
community recreation center be a real factor in building the richest possible living

everywhere?

Men desire to lead vigorous, wholesome lives.
Men“ want their lives to have significance, meaning, to count for something.

Men do not want their lives to be all vacation.
There is a time for baseball, a time for swimming, 3 time for flying kites.
But man freed from toil by the machine feels that baseball, swimming, kite flying are

not all—hare only a part.
457

Adventure must be progressive, must have more and more of meaning to satisfy.

The greater the leisure the machines give to man, the mOre essential it is, if there is to
be continuing inner satisfaction, that the activities have more and more meaning.

Man is hungry to be skilful, to use: all his powers, more than.all his present powers.

But increasingly with more leisure man wants something permanent to remain out of
at least part of his leisure activity.

He wants something permanent of sound, of thought, of architecture, of government,
of service, of beauty, of truth, of proportion, of world progress, of human service.

The little child of high intelligence early tires of piling block on block merely to knock I
them all down again and begin over; even the little child wants something parts;
of the time that has an element of permanence. 

Men do use their leisure in increasingly better ways.

The leisure of one man today is not built on the slavery of fellow men but on the I
slavery of machines which in the main do hard physical work for him.

Men increasingly choose some form of neighborhood, community, church, national
service distinctly as a form of recreation, find satisfaction in doing what carries a
little corner of the world forward.

Instinctively men not only increasingly choose beauty in its various forms, “but also i
become conscious of the value of beauty in their own lives and in the common life I
of the community.

Men increasingly are willing to go without and defer if beauty can be created and
preserved.

Recreation takes up the “enduring satisfactions of life,” must consider “the ends and
aims of life.”

It is of first importance that people in their free time do what they most want to do. 
However, there is always the appeal from “Philip drunk to Philip sober,” from
the immediate little to the more distant big.

Men must be exposed to the truly great things, to what has been tested through the I
generations, to what has proved itself through the centuries.

HOWARD BRAUCHER lg

DECEMBER I946

453

 

Abbie Condit

FTER THIRTY-SIX years of distinguished service to the recreation movement Abbie Condit at her own

A urgent request has retired from the position she has held so long in the National Recreation

AssociationfiHer many friends in the entire nation will wish to extend their deepest best wishes

for her enjoyment of the greater leisure she now has. She will continue to serve from time to time as

as volunteer, and states that her interest in all that happens in the recreation movement will not be less
than’ before.

I

During all the years that Abbie Condit served with the Association there were few of its pub-
lications that she did not have apart in preparing. She has written to every corner of the United
States about articles for RECREATION Magazine.

Though the Magazine was only one of her responsibilities, she served ably as Managing Editor
for many years. Local recreation leaders coming to the office of the Association and attending the Rec-
reation Congress al-ways sought Abbie Condit out, because they liked her cordial, personal letters and

I because they thought of her as a friend. Many remember the first time they came to a Recreation Con-
gress and like to think of the warm greeting she gave them. Always she has liked people, and people
have liked her. Quietly she has helped to build the recreation movement, and part of what exists today

‘ is a result of her labor. Her fellow workers greatly miss the daily association with her.

DECEMBER 1946 459

Recreation by Bookmobile

ll HEN 1 get home, I’m going
W to play those games with
my grandchildren,” said
an 84-year-old grandmother at the
close of a Bookmobile Recreational held in Winn
Parish* during the summer of 1946, and sponsored
by the Winn Parish Library. Why should a li-
brary sponsor .a summer recreation program? Pri-
marily because the situation presented a definite
challenge that could not be turned down.

June, July, August ——three months stretched
ahead! Hundreds of children who live in remote
areas with no organized recreation facilities faced
a dull summer vacation. Here‘ was an opportunity
for the parish library; its nine branch libraries
situated in the more thickly populated areas, and a
bookmobile which takes books to the citizens liv—
ing in remote and sparsely settled regions.

“The library staff is small and any expansion of
the program would mean added duties for each
member. Reading, after all, is recreation. Does
the library have any recreation responsibility be-
yond attempting to get the right book' to the right
person at the right time?” 'These were some of the
thoughts that went through the minds of those
making the decision in regard to a recreation pro-
gram. But the library staff decided to go “another
mile” and try to meet the challenge in a small way,
at least. Plans began to be formulated for an ex-
periment 0f correlating reading with a community-
wide recreation program. Not only the children
but every person in the community would be in-
vited to attend the programs. Perhaps this might
lead to a revival of the almost extinct community
spirit that used to be such a fine quality of our
rural life.

The Background

Winn Parish is located in the central part of
Louisiana. The total population is about 18,000
Out of this number about 6,000 live in a town
which is the parish site. The other 12,000 live either
in small communities grouped together around a
few stores, a few-churches and a near-by school,
or in purely rural areas on farms located some
distance apart. It is in the latter _regions that the
bookmobile gives library service.

*Parish is the same geographical unit referred to as county in
other states.

 

460

By RUBIE Moss HANKS
Librarian. Winn Parish Library
Winnfield, Louisiana

The Winn Parish Library be-
gan as a part of the South’s first
tri-_parish demonstration in 1937.
This regional library demonstra—
tion was sponsored jointly by the Louisiana Li-
brary Commission (now the state library) and the
State Board of Education. The demOnstration' was
under the expert guidance of the librarian and was
operated for a period of three years. At the close
of the demonstration period, each parish must vote
on assuming the responsibility for program main—
tenanée through a property tax. Winn Parish
voted a two mill maintenance tax for five years.
When the time came for renewal, the vote was
almost unanimous not only for a two mill main-
tenance tax but also for an additional one mill
building tax. During this nine-year span since

1937, the citizens of Winn have come to feel that '

library services are an essential part of the parish
life. The 92,000 books read during 1945 by the
patrons throughout the parish are evidence that the
books are used.

At the present time the bookmobile has four
routes that it makes twice each month with stops
regularly scheduled as to time and place. It travels
about 500 miles every four weeks and gives li-
brary service to hundreds of patrons at 57 points
of distribution. The bookmobile now used belongs
to the state library and has been on loan to the
parish since the close of the demonstration. The

parish now has in an order to purchase a new.

bookmobile.

“It is more than a library-on-wheels,” wrote a

visitor from California who took a trip on the
bookmobile. “The Winn Parish Bookmobile has a

_warm, friendly atmosphere. The formula for this

is one—half the enthusiastic spirit of.the librarians
and one-half the enthusiastic interest of the read-
ers. The users range in ages from 2 to 90 years.”

Many people who live off roads that are passable
for the bookmobile walk two or three miles to the

regular stop, often bringing their books in largef‘1

flour sacks for themselves and a neighbor who
could not come. Such is their eagerness for read-
ing that they come through the cold of winter and
the heat of summer. Often they have said, even
during the war years when a letter from some
far-away battlefront was the most desired event of

. RECREATION

,N
~‘i

tg

any day, “The bookmobile is as eagerly welcomed
as the rural mail carrier.”

Invalids and shut—ins have written in this man-
ner, “I wonder if anyone in Winn Parish appre-
ciates the library more than I? While confined to
my bed for many long weeks, the excellent books
provided by our library have made this confine-
‘ ment more endurable. Much of the time it is pos-
jsible to forget the pain and go on fiights of fancy
with various authors.”

With these words of appreciation ringing in our
' ears, how could the library staff do less than try to
plan some form of community recreation during
the summer? '

Summer Program

In order to encourage reading among the chil-
dren, certificates are customarily offered to every
child who reads 20 books during the vacation
period. -In the summer of 1946 an added attraction
was planned to work in with the recreation pro-
gram. Choctaw Reading Clubs were organized on
all bookmobile routes as well as among the chil-
dren who read from the branch libraries. Choctaw
'Indians used to roam the wilds of this parish in
days of old and every child was encouraged to
collect Indian arrowheads found in the woods as
well as Indian legends known to the older people
in the community. The slogan was “Every book
that you read will be a feather in your cap.” The
‘boy in each club who read the largest number of
books during vacation was to be elected Indian
chief and the most prolific girl reader was to be-
come the Indian princess. Each reader had, for
the final program, a headband with a feather for
every book he had read. Since there is no museum
 the area near enough for the rural children to
visit, an interesting collection of Indian relics was
borrowed from the Louisiana State Museum. This
exhibit was used at the recreation programs.

 

Reading is continuously encouraged among
adults,through the offer of the state library to
award a certificate to every adult who will read 12
books in diversified fields during the year. The
importance of earning these certificates was
stressed at each recreation program.

Plans were made for a community recreation
program to be held on each of the four routes.
Community leaders were consulted as to the best
time and place. The library wanted each commu-
nity to feel that this was their program even
lthough it was sponsored by the library.

I

! DECEMBER 1946

RECREATION BY BOOKMOBILE 461

June 25, a large crowd gathered for the first
program on the lawn of the home of one of the
readers. The group varied in age from 4 months
to 84 years. The bookmobile brought to all meet-
ings pe0ple who had no other means of transporta—
tion. The director of a health program in this
section of the state had been invited to take charge
of the program. Carrying out the theme of the
Choctaw Reading Club, Indian stories were told
and Indian games played. Souvenirs, purchased
by the director while visiting Indian reservations,
were shown and certain superstitions connected
with them explained. A local girl who had gath-
ered Indian relics as a hobby since childhood
talked about her collection. The group sang songs,
and at the picnic that followed everyone enjoyed
good fellowship with one another.

The second meeting was held under the shade
of trees on another route. The meetings were
basically similar but each differed somewhat ac-
cording to its location. Here songs were sung by
everybody, a group of children gave a colorful
Indian play, and the display from the museum was
explained. There were, too, stories about life in
the United States during the pioneer days. Inter-
esting book displays were placed on tables under
the trees. Old and young alike played games and
enjoyed them. Local citizens assisted in the pro-
gram by leading group singing. Everyone left this
place of meeting after the social hour reluctantly,
expressing appreciation to the library for a happy
afternoon.

A local church was available for the third pro-
gram. A . young newspaper representative and a
local resident led the group in enthusiastic song.
A young boy played the accompaniment for a
quartette on his guitar. At the close of the after-
noon, one leader in the community said, “With

'more programs like this, there would be a quick

decline in juvenile delinquency. Do come back and
give to our community another wholesome after-

noon of fun.”

Evaluation

What of the results? While it is most difficult
to measure results in education and recreation
activities such as these, there have been some

definite benefits that can be recognized and ap-

praised.
There is a greater understanding between the

library staff and rural people. A warmer friend—
ship has sprung up between the two groups. Now,
(Continued on page 498)

What They Say About Recreation
A merrytllhriatmaa in All...

11 HIS IS THE month, and this the happy morn,
VVherein the Son of Heaven’s Eternal King,
Of wedded maid and virgin mother born,

Our great redemption from above did bring,

For so the holy sages once did sing,

That He our deadly forfeit should release,

And with His Father work us a perpetual peace.”
‘ —fohn Milton.

i
'6'.

“Nothing is achieved until it be thoroughly at—
tempted.”—Sir Philip Sydney.

i
t:

“More and more we are coming to realize that

dramatic training evokes a new appreciation of ‘

essential human. values; freedom of expression,
self-control, and a greater enjoyment of the best
in literature. It can redeem the drab common-
place of a work-a-day world in a recreation of
life on the plane of imagination.”

—Frederick H. Koch

-.

A
76'.

“The word ‘leisure itself merely means the
chance for choice. To use it not only with wisdom
but with prodigal and joyful abandon is to find a
new spirit in life, a new happiness in living, and a
new heart for work when the working time comes

around.”
g

“Dancing, like all other arts that are born of the.

very light of life, is fathomless in its depth and
boundless'in its possibilities of growth. It is our
duty to art never to confine it within the walls of
stunted ideals. . . . Please know for a certainty
that art meets its death in limitation.”
—Rabindranath Tagore.

:35:

“A playground’s value is measured by the worth
of its leaders and, according to the constructive
work they contribute to the community, so will the
public be convinced that playgrounds are not a
frill or a fad being fostered upon them. If that be
the case, money and support will surely be forth-

coming.”——f. f. Syme.
462

“With holly and ivy
So green and so gay,
We deck up our houses
As fresh as the day,
With bays and rosemary,
And laurel complete,
And everyone now I
Is a king in conceit.”
-—'Poor Richard’s Almanach’.

E

“It has also become clear that children learn:
democracy as they learn everything else—by doing;
and that one of the best ways for them to practice
democracy is through play, which is a real experi-i
ence in social living. Nor does such play simply
mean being together; it means acting together;
working together in a common enterprise.”—
Adele Franklin and Agnes Benedict in Play C ena
ters for School Children. '

K

A
:a'

“. . . The Community Center idea involves muchj
more than the mere erection of a club room, a.
playground or a dance hall. Fundamentally it 
the embodiment of the good neighbor policy; 0ft
tolerance and understanding, of learning to live,
not as isolationists, but as members of a commu
nity banded together in a spirit of cooperation for
the common good.”—From The Community Can

Do It.

   
    
   
  
  
   

,%

.l.
:0.

“Left alone, Nature will produce beauty and
those things that add to the healthfulness of man,
with no help from him except that effort which
refrains from spoiling her work.”

:55:

“When communities begin to use their‘ heritag
and traditions as springboards to a more abunda K
life rather than as hitching posts to tie them t,
a past, no matter how glorious, life assumes a new
direction.”—Jean and Jess Ogden in Sniall Coni-

mnnities in Action.

“All who joy would win, must share it ,
Happiness was born a twin.”—Lord Byron.

RECREATION

Columbus Plans for Radio

LL OF US ARE AWARE that radio is a powerful
force today, but do we fully realize how
great a part it plays in our daily lives and in

the life of our community? Are we aware of the
responsibility we have toward our local radio sta-
tions? Are we aware of the advantages a com-
munity radio workshop would offer to our cul-
tural, educational, recreation and social agencies?
Do we know that we can and should help promote
listeners to programs of vital interest to our city,
ourselves, and to our children? It is our hope that
these and other challenging questions are being
answered in Columbus, Georgia.

Columbus has not' been unaware of radio’s p0-
tentialities for enriched living in the community.
Some. community organizations have made use of
local broadcasting facilities made available in the
public service. For example, the Recreation De—
partment in cooperation with one of Columbus’
radio stations presented Books Bring Adventure
I, the first of three 13-week transcription series
prepared under the auspices of the Association of
Junior Leagues of America. The decision to spon-
sor these transcriptions came about as the. result
of a 12-year-old policy of the department.

In 1934 the Recreation Department, in coopera-
tion with the P.T.A.’s and later the local Junior
League, organized what was then known as the
Junior Theater. The ideas for such an organiza-
tion grew and expanded and the name was changed
to Children’s Community Theater because, natur-
ally, the Department of Recreation felt the need for

reaching all children of the community with whole- ’

some drama. As time—and progress—went on
other interests such as the Children’s Workshop,
were added from time to time. In 1945 a radio
program was added to these ventures.

So it was that Books Bring Adventure was
bought by the Recreation Department and aired
for all the community’s children. In considering
the program later the staff felt that it had done a
poor job because it knew nothing of promotion and
without promotion many youngsters who might
have enjoyed the series failed to hear about it.

The department learned its lesson and, when a
new development in radio was planned, Columbus
recreation workers took an integral and eager part
I in the planning. The story of that planning and

DECEMBER 1946

the people who participated is the story of the
Community Radio Council of Columbus.

Beginnings

In April 1946 Miss Gloria Chandler, radio con-
sultant of the Association of Junior Leagues of
America, came to the city at the request of the
Columbus Junior League to conduct a radio in-
stitute and to present to the people of Columbus
the idea of establishing a single coordinated chan-
nel through which local interpretive programs
could be produced and ‘through which interest
would be aroused in significant programs already
on the air. The plan met with immediate and en-
thusiastic approval from the two radio stations
and from representatives of various public service
agencies.

In June, after studying the successful methods
of similar ventures in Winston-Salem and other
cities, the Community Radio Council of Columbus
was organized. A strong advisory board was
formed. Those asked to serve included the man-
agers and promotion directors of both radio sta-
tions, newspaper representatives, the Superintend-
ent of Schools, the Director of the Recreation
Department,_the head of the Public Library, the
radio chairman of the Social Planning Council, the
president of the Junior League, the executive sec-
retary of the Chamber of Commerce, a member of
the Junior Chamber of Commerce, several inter-
ested lay people, and a "professional radio producer
employed as director of the Workshop. The C0-
lumbus Junior League agreed to underwrite the
operating expenses of this work for the first year,
after which time it is hoped that it's proven benefit
to the community will justify the community’s
financial support.

Obviously, such a plan for community interpre-
tation through radio could not succeed without the
cooperation of the local radio stations. Both
WDAK and WRBL are giving full support and,
until the Workshop is ready to produce live pro-
grams or its own transcriptions, both stations are

broadcasting transcriptions from national sources
under the sponsorship of the Community Radio

Council. '
On June 15 WDAK began broadcasting the sec-

ond 13-week series of Books Bring Adventure on
( Continued on page 507)

463

 

Walter L. Scott

Official Release

on Federal Inter-Agency Committee on
Recreation. Thursday. November 7. I946

Ix FEDERAL AGENCIES, each active in one or

more phases of recreation, are members of a

newly organized Federal Inter-Agency Com-
mittee on Recreation according to a joint an-
nouncement made today by the agencies concerned.
Represented on the Committee are the Extension
Service and the Forest Service of the Department
of Agriculture; the National Park Service and the
Fish and \Vildlife Service of the Department of
the Interior; the Federal Security Agency’s Office
of Education; and the Veterans’ Administration.

Establishment of the Committee recognizes the
need of voluntary coordination and c00perative
leadership among the various agencies to assure
the maximum usefulness of lands valuable for rec-
reation ; to provide the kinds of recreation which
are needed; to eliminate unnecessary duplication
of facilities and services.

Mr. Walter L. Scott who has been Director of
Recreation for Long Beach, California, for the
past 14 years has been appointed full-time secre-
tary of the Committee, and has established an

464

l

n

ofhce in Room 5I45 in the Interior Building. Mr.
Scott’s work has been as coordinator of recreation
at the local community level, and he is, in addition,
well acquainted with the work of the several F ed—
eral Bureaus in this field.

:-

Walter L. Scott

\Valter L. Scott, recently designated to provide
executive service to the newly formed Federal
Inter-Agency Committee on Recreation, brings to
his new responsibilities an unusually appropriate
background of training and experience. Born on
a wheat ranch in eastern Washington, he attended
a rural school through the first seven grades, and
at different periods of his youth and early adult-
hood, worked on his father’s wheat ranch, acquir-
ing through personal experience an intimate knowl-
edge of rural living, including recreation activities
and needs. His understanding of rural life is sup—
plemented by years of experience as a local recre—
ation executive and coordinator.

Mr. Scott was graduated from Greensville Col-
lege, Illinois, after taking time out during his col-
lege career to serve with the United States Army
in this country and in France during World “far
1. He took post-graduate work at Springfield Col-
lege, the Universities of Wisconsin, Michigan and
Southern California, receiving a master’s degree
in education from Michigan in I925. He took
special courses at these institutions in recreation,
education and physical education. While at high
school and college Mr. Scott participated in a
number of varsity sports and athletics, including
tennis, basketball, baseball, gymnastics, track, and
rowing. He lists among his personal hobbies
photography, traveling, collecting, inventing new
games, gardening, handball, and golf.

Mr. Scott has had fruitful years of experience
as physical education leader and administrator, and
as athletic coach. The recreation profession knows
him as the successful recreation administrator. for
22 years 14 of which were spent as director of the
municipal and school recreation programs of Long
Beach, California. He has also served nationally
and locally as a volunteer in the Boy Scout move-
ment.

The Long Beach public recreation program co-
ordinates the local city and school administrations,
with the local plan providing for further coordina-
tion of recreation, park, and planning activities.
This background, plus that of his membership in
the Long Beach Coordinating Council, has given
Mr. Scott just the experience needed for success-
ful service with the Federal Inter-Agency Com-

(Continued on page 494)

RECREATION

“How Far. that Little Candle . . 

EW YORK’S great Metropolitan Museum of

Art with its dozens of special collections, its

study rooms and Junior Museum, its highly
trained staff, “bears little resemblance at first glance
to Master Will Shakespeare’s “little candle.” But,
if you look a little deeper the comparison stands
up—and in so doing
proves that the
Metropolitan be-
longs not to New
York alone but to
the whole nation.
For the Museum
“throws its beam”
far beyond the five
boroughs of the me-
tropolis which is its
physical home. Mil-
lions of visitors
from all parts of
the world coming
to the world’s most
populous city find
pleasure and profit
in the collections.
Thousands of peo—
ple who have neither
seen nor expect to
see with-their eyes,
any one of the “mu-
seum pieces” have
yet been able to ex-
perience some of
them by remote
control.

In connection
with its Diamond Jubilee Fund drive the Museum
has published some interesting facts about its work.
Groups as far west as California, as far north as
Maine, as far south as Texas have come to know
the Metropolitan as a friend. Churches, museums
in smaller communities, magazine and book pub-
lishers, study clubs and recreation departments,
libraries and department stores—and all the peo-
ple in them—are the richer because of a charter
granted 75 years ago to a group of New Yorkers
who sought to establish “a museum and library
of art” so that the fine arts might be encouraged
and applied to manufacture and practical life and

mass: my

“my; man 
as.“ as» f_

Em A??? 
“as,” $39?

DECEMBER 1946

 

Criurtesy .‘lIetropohtan Museum of Ar:

so that popular instruction in those arts might be
furthered.

This dispersal of the Museum’s influence has
been made possible in part by the Lending Collec-
tions. People who have problems send them to the
Museum for help. “\Vould you possibly have
something,” they
write, “that we
could use in our
study club? We are
studying this year
So-and-So’s His—
tory of Painting and
we should like to
have some pictures
to look at. Does the
Museum . . .?”

Diverse Users in
Diverse Places

Many kinds of
groups find what
they are looking for
at the Metropolitan.
Most of the people
in them live within
a zoo-mile radius
of New York, for
shipping charges on
the bulky exhibit
materials are likely
to be heavy when
the cases must go
very far afield.
Nevertheless, some
of the exhibits travel

thousands of miles across the country.

The Lending Collections cover a wide field of
interest and are used by a wide variety of groups.
There are the “casual customers” who have a
temporary need for a special kind of material. There
are college and university groups using the Mu-'
seum’s pictures to enrich the curriculum content
of formal courses in art and archeology. There
are study groups——chiefly women—formal or in-
formal who are eager to learn more about the

contributions made by men of the past to fuller
living for men of all the futures. There are schools

-——public and private—whose leaders want to bring

46S

466 “HOW PAR THAT LITTLE CANDLE . . .”

to boys and girls a dynamic experience of the
world’s culture. There are church groups and oc-
cupational therapists and art schools and designers
who find at the Metropolitan a great store of the
riches accumulated during the ages of civilization’s
development.

Cases in Point

For example, P.T.A.’s in many towns near New
York have, f01= many years, been working closely
with the Museum. Members of these associations
discuss with teachers of art and social studies and
with audio-visual aid supervisors the classroom
needs of the pupils. Representatives come to New
York and study the Lending Collections, then plan
a series of loans to correlate with the work to be
carried on during the whole year. When the
school’s classes are ready for a certain exhibit a
car or truck or station wagon pulls up at the
Metropolitan’s door, picks up the proper collec-
tion and takes it back for use during the loan
period.

An interested citizen of a town in New Mexico
worked out an arrangement with the Lending Col-
lections staff by which certain exhibits would be
shipped periodically to her. The photographs were
used on their arrival by her art study club then
were placed on exhibit for the whole community
to enjoy. Here was a public service that came,

during the year, to mean much to the people of the,

town. But the cost was high and, though she was
a woman of some means, the town’s benefactor did
not feel that she could continue year after year to
bear the whole financial burden of the project. The
“city fathers” 'were equal to the occasion. They
said the exhibits had meant so much to the whole
community that in the future a part of the shipping
cost would be written into the public budget as a
legitimate charge on the city’s finances.

Church groups use the collections in different
ways. Ministers arrange for copies of great relig-
ious art works to be used in Sunday Schools. Or
directors of religious plays and pageants use them

as inspiration for costumes and stage sets and
tableaux.

‘

USO clubs found in. the Museum a source of real
help during the war years. Pictures from the
Lending Collections brightened the drab walls of
many make-shift clubrooms, brought to many men
and women in the armed forces their first knowl-
edge of masterpieces. And the Red Cross has

used color photographs or drawings of tapestries
and floor coverings, ceramics and pieces of sculp-
ture to add interest and value to the work being
done through occupational therapy to aid in the
rehabilitation of war—damaged limbs or muscles or
minds. Some men, it was discovered, progressed
more rapidly toward wholeness if they were re-
producing on the loom a design from an ancient
and beautiful piece of weaving or re-creating in
clay the lines and the colors of a master potter.

Accent on Children

One interesting section of this department of
the Metropolitan contains carefully chosen color
p‘i‘ints of special interest and inspiration 'to the
smaller children in the early grades. Teachers
within commuting range of the Museum select
pictures to be hung on the walls and studied by the
youngsters. From their study the boys and girls
write their impressions—poems, essays, stories;
and so have a double experience in observation and
in catching their ideas and feelings in words.

There are three general divisions in the loan
department—black and white photographs, color
pictures and slides. .In addition the Museum has
on file photographic negatives of objects and pic-
tures in its collections. Anyone who wants to have ‘
a copy of, for example, the head of the Egyptian
king Akh-en-Aten or his beautiful wife N efret-ity
can get it for a small charge—to have and to hold,
by writing to the sales desk at the Museum.

Publications

In other ways, too, the Metropolitan Museum
is a treasure house to which you or I may go
without reference to separation in time and space.
The monthly bulletin brings neWs and views of the
Museum and its collections. Other published ma-
terials are available, as are reproductions of many
of the art objects that testify to 5,000 years of cre—
ative development in that strange and wonderful
creature—man. And, like every other museum,
this one will continue to grow and to thrive only
as its destiny of usefulness is made possible of l
fulfillment by the people for whom it was created.
For there is nothing so dead as an unused collec-
tion and few things more capable of living, albeit
vicariously, than a collection that is put to good
and constant use.

RECREATION

reation plan that involves

the child or the adolescent,
it is necessary to devote a cer-
tain amount of time and effort to satisfying the
youngster who desires to pursue a hobby. The
educational leaders of today go all out to encour-
age avocations for both young and old for the
purpose of filling in the leisure hours with an
activity that is both useful and constructive.

To accommodate the junior hobbyist, the San
Francisco Recreation Department has developed
many fine activities accompanied by the where-
withal to carry them on. One of the foremost of
these is the Junior Museum. Housed in a rambling
and unpretentious building erected on the site of
the old county jail and next to the wide cultivated
expanses of Balboa Park, this establishment offers
a great wealth of wonderful opportunities to the
: junior hobby enthusiast. No matter what the
» background of the child or adolescent may be, he
is sure to find an activity to interest him and the
means of pursuing it at the Museum.

. IN EVERY comprehensive rec—

Nature Study

The most extensive and popular occupation fol-
lowed at the Museum is nature study. The junior
natutalists have amassed such a horde of half—wild
pets in the nature study section that it creates the
impression of a miniature 200. Just about every
wild thing that mother would deny entrance to the
house is represented in the collection. Snakes,
fish, reptiles, rats, mice, turtles, spiders, frogs,
birds and 'snails are all represented in generous
num ers. All the specimens are watched with
absorbed interest to determine their habits and
observe their antics. Each addition to the live col-
lection brings new interest and many added thrills
to young students of nature. The two latest, a
sparrow-hawk named Dagwood and a young rac-
coon called Rusty, have captured everybody’s in-
terest. By consulting the Encyclopedia Brittanica
and several nature books the destinies of Dagwood
-,and Rusty have been worked out. A balanced diet
.:for these two creatures of nature has received much
sage deliberation. Some concern was felt when
'Rusty devoured a papier-maché pieplate with
igusto. No ‘ill effects were noted however. The
crisis passed without even a minor tragedy.

 

DECEMBER 1946

By JOSEPHINE D. RANDALL

Superintendent of Recreation
San Francisco. California

Junior MuseUm

A treatise on Dagwood re-
cently appeared in The Junior
Naturalist which is published
monthly at the Museum. This
leaflet furn'ishes an outlet for any new information
gathered by the nature lovers. Essays in brief on
a great variety of nature studies are written up by
the students themselves and published in this bul-
letin for circulation throughout the Recreation De-
partment and its many playgrounds.

In addition to the live exhibits, this division of
the Museum boasts of many fine collections and
exhibits of the flora and fauna of Northern Cali-
fornia. There are available for study excellent
displays of wild life" including butterflies, reptiles,
birds and wild flowers. These remarkable collec-
tions reflect a professional touch and are in an
excellent state of preservation.

The scope of nature study here is by no means
limited to plant and animal life. One of the most
comprehensive collections of rocks and mineral
bearing ores native to the Pacific Coast may be
found at the Museum. A quantity of information
is available to the youngsters and a great deal of
interest is shown in the geological aspect of nature
study. The casual visitor to the Museum is greeted
by'a scale representation of most of the geological
structures found in the United States. The collec-
tion of rocks and minerals has benefited greatly by
gifts received from donors well known in the
geological field.

As a corollary to the study of rocks and miner-
als, the youngsters are given an Opportunity to
apply the knowledge they have gained to the
polishing of stones and gems. The facilities for
rock polishing are not the latest in the field, but
under the very capable instruction available at the
Museum many beautiful Specimens are cut, pol-
ished, mounted and worn by budding jewelers.

I

The Pterodactyls

Model aircraft building is an outstanding hobby
among the youngsters. This activity has enjoyed
such popularity that a club of model aircraft tech-
nicians has been formed at the Museum with reg-
ular meetings scheduled for Friday evenings at 7.
There is a spirit of good fellowship at the meeting
when air enthusiasts outline the building program
for the following week. The club, appropriately

467

l.

468 JUNIOR MUSEUM ‘

These replicas were created by a skilled artisan ‘1
who reproduced the musical instruments of all,

called the Pterodactyl Club, was recently pre-
sented with a charter from the Academy of Model

Aeronautics, which made this group a chapter of
the organization. The charter was awarded in
recognition of the interest and leadership shown
by the boys at the Museum in the building and
flying of model aircraft. Under the charter the
local chapter is now qualified to conduct official
glider and model aircraft soaring contests with the
records of the meets recognized as official for the

establishment of national flight records. Regular-

meets and contests are held under the sponsorship
of the chapter on the San Francisco sand dunes.
Several national records'have been established by
members of the club.

In connection with the building and flying of the
model aircraft, the Pterodactyls publish a small
monthly pamphlet called The Third Dimension.
This publication contains all- the latest informa-
tion on the subject of model aircraft and the re—
sults of the various contests. _,

The young people who pursue this hobby are
really wide awake. A complete exhibit of solid and
soaring models of all types of aircraft has been
built and is_ on display at their workshop. Prob-
lems in structure are freely discussed and methods
of application of knowledge gained is circulated
freely. All the latest tools, equipment and materi-
als are made available to the young birdmen, and
all the latest plans are procured for their use.
Instruction in this department is the best avail-
able in the field as proven by the results shown
in flight.

Other Activities

Under the guiding hand of its curator, the
Junior Museum looks like a museum instead of the
workshop that it is. The exhibit rooms are filled
with interesting subjects. 'The casual visitor will
find an array of exhibits including stamps, model
steam locomotives, model ships and an exception-
ally 1ine display of miniature musical instruments.

foreign nations very faithfully. The miniatures
make excellent examples for study by'the youthful
patrons of the premises.

An activity very popular with the youngest of
the children is painting with water colors. - A large
volume of art ranging from some very weird
figures that border on surrealism to some promis-
ing work is turned out daily. For the older chil-
dren an opportunity to learn printing is offered. ‘
A printing press with several sets of type is avail-
able to anyone who wants to know the mechanics
of typography. The children cut their own designs
in linoleum for the publications printed at the
Museum.

In conjunction with the Museum a gardening
center is maintained for those who are interested I
in raising vegetables or flowers. Before the war
this center was Operated for the purpose of teach- -
ing horticulture. The main interest was flowers.
During the war the popularity of the victory gar-
den caught on in the center whereupon vegetables
were raised exclusively. N ow once.again, for the
first time in four years, the harvest includes
flowers. A Garden Club has been organized among
the children with regular' meetings where prob-
lems of gardening and its results are the subjects
of discussion. While not actively engaged in car-
ing for their gardens, the members devote their
time to Junior Red Cross activities and the making
of gifts for distribution on Christmas and birth—
days.

One recent activity of the Garden Club was the
assembling of popular cartoons and jokes from
magazines and newspapers. These were compiled
into small joke books and turned over to the Red
Cross for distribution to servicemen confined in
hOSpitals. Other subjects that have been popular
with the Garden Club members are woodworking,

leatherwork and handcraft.

 

National Conference on Facilities

George D. Butler is representing the National Recreation Association at the National Conference
on Facilities for Athletics, Recreation, Health and Physical Education. He will be present for the full
period, December I - I4, and will make available the experience of the National Recreation Association
along these lines. The conference is being held at Jackson’s Mill, West Virginia. Frank S. Stafford of
the U. S. Office of Education is serving as director of the working conference.

RECREATION

Recreation Programs in Public

Housing Facilities

RECENT SURVEY Of Commu—
A nity facilities in public
housing developments dis-
closes that the use of these fa-
cilities for recreation purposes

surpasses all other uses. The study covered 76
housing projects in 53 cities located in 21 states

and the District of C0-
lumbia. All of the Fed-
eral Public Housing
Authority’s eight
regions and the Gen-

By ERNEST BUFF
Na’rional Housing Agency
Federal Public Housing Authority
WasI'IingI'onl D. C. .

GRAPH-I
ON-SITE PROGRAMS IN COMMUNITY FACILITIES ON

of programs involve what are
commonly termed as recreation
activities, and their popularity is
attested by their relative posi-
tion on the graph.

The tables on the next page list the individual
types of activities which were reported under these

76 HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS

eral Field Office area
were represented.
Twenty-one major
community service
programs were identi—
fied, and the relative
frequencies with which
they have been“ re—
ported as on-site ac-
tivities by the 76 hous-
ing developments is
clearly indicated in the
graph. The length of
the bars in the graph
is determined by the
number of projects
which reported one or
more activities under
each program heading.
Because of the wide
variety of leisure time
pursuits not involving
strenuous physical ex-
ercise or athletics, it
was decided for the
purpose of this survey
to separate sports and
physical activities from
other forms of recrea-
tion (including arts
and crafts, hobbies,
music, social recrea-
tion, and the like).
However, both classes

DECEMBER 1946

. PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES---

PROGRAMS NUMBER OF DEVELOPMENTS

(OTHER THAN 0 IO 20 30 40 50 60 7O 76

SPORTS AND
PHYSICAL

RECREATI0N_A.chLTLE§1-_-
SPORTS AND

   

  
      
      
    
  
   

.x\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\W

.\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\‘

S\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\‘

W

CIVILIAN DEFENSE
ACTIVITIES _____ -_,_--_

YOUTH .
ORGANIZATIONS ..... __

52

HEALTH ACTIVITIES..-"

TENANT MAINTENANCE
MEETINGS __________ ..

TENANT
ORGANIZATIONS ..... _ _

PRE'SCHOOL CHILD-

REN'S PROGRAMS .... __ ‘4

   
 
 

49

49

gsgleCATIONS _______ __ 42
E‘SI‘JELZTTISEE. ________ __ \ ..
[RIEEITIRNYG SERVICES" , '39
EE%€R?E§ ________ __ as -

ADULT EOUCATION-____ 32
REEIFGTSUSNNEIJEETINGS; . 32
SAFETY EDUCATION. so
EERSIIICDEESD.   .. ._  2'
WELFARE SERVICES--- 2°
ADULT ORGANIZATIONS  '7

CIVIC ACTIVITIES .... _, '6

\\ \ ‘
CONSUMER SERVICES- c\\\‘\‘\\\~ '6
PUBLIC SCHOOL

.‘\\‘
PROGRAMS- ________ __ \\ a ,_ . _ _ --

409

470 RECREATION PROGRAMS IN PUBLIC HOUSING FACILITIES

two popular .classes of on-site community pro—
grams. and indicate the extent to which each ac-
tivity was reported by the 76 housing developments.

' The survey was based on the operation of the
community facilities and programs during the 12
months prior to July I, 1945. It is also significant
that in this last year of World War II, civilian
defense activities were reported by a large majority
of the public housing developments included in the
survey. Many of the residents of these projects
were, at that time, engaged in industrial work at
essential war plants, and no doubt were feeling the
strain of long hours of strenuous labor. Neverthe-
less, they still found time to participate actively in
the civilian defense programs of their respective
communities.

The prevalence of youth organizations on hous-
ing deve10pments is, likewise, an encouraging item,
such programs having been reported by 56 de—
velopments. It is generally believed that the pro-
vision of community facilities‘ for regular meetings
and other activities tends to stimulate organiza-
tion and growth of these groups. The importance
of youth service organizations cannot be over-
emphasized. The effect of their constructive pro-
grams on character building, attitude adjustments,
and the development of responsibility among young
people is well known.

The poor showing of some of the other classes
of programs is offset, to some extent, by the

frequency with which these programs were re-r

ported as off-site services, conveniently accessible
and available to the residents of the housing de-
velopments. Notable among these are public school
programs. Only six projects reported the use of
on-site community facilities for these purposes,
whereas 72 developments indicated the availability
of off-site public school programs and services.

The information gathered in this survey is ex-
pected to have a'bearing on the planning of com-
munity facilities for future public housing develop-
ments. Knowledge relative to the practical func-
tioning of the facilities and the kinds of programs
they are intended to provide is essential before
intelligent planning can begin.

NUMBER OF '
DEVELOPMENTS
PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES REPORTING
Recreation * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67

Arts and crafts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

Community sings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

Concerts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

Dancing, social . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

NumnaR or
DEVELOPMENTS
PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES REPORTING
Dancing, other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 33

Dramatics, pageants . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

Flower shows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4

Garden clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Hobby groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Model airplane . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7

Photography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Stamp collecting . . . . . . . . . . .  . 4

Woodwork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Informal play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 48

Motion pictures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 45

Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

Social recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

Special events, carnivals . . . . . . . . . . 40
' Table Games . '
Bingo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 3

Cards . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . 4I

_\ Checkers . . . . . .t . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

Chess . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

Other table games . . . . . . . . . . .. 28

Other activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

“Figures on this line'indicate the number of projects reporting
one or more act1v1t1es under this program heading.

 

NUMBER OF
DEVELOPMENTS
PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES REPORTING
Sports and Physical Activities* . . . . . . 65

Badminton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

Baseball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Basketball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Croquet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

Darts- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Deck tennis . .0. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

Football . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Gym activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I6

Horseshoes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Lawn bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I

Paddle tennis . . . . . . . . . . . : . . . . . . . I6

Ping-pong . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46

Pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IO

Quoits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  I5

Shuffleboard .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

' Soccer . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

Softball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

Swimming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . 3

Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . 9

Volley ball . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

 

*Figures on this line indicate the number of projects reporting
one or more activ1ties under thlS program heading.

RECREATION

\"

The Best Companions

I

ll OOKS,” savs CICERO, “are the food of youth,
B the delight of old age,” and quite a number
of other pleasant and desirable things which
space will not permit us to quote. Other eminent
readers and writers through the ages have joined
the Ciceronian chorus in praise of books, and one
can but bow before their considered and informed
judgments—bow and wonder in the process why
there are so relatively few adults in this year of
grace 1946 who will agree in practice that books
are their best companions.

It- would be possible to point out a thousand and
one reasons for this situation. There is in this
complicated world of gadgets and committees, of
specialization and crowded living, too little time
and space for communion with the great minds of
the past and the present. Modern education is

more concerned with turning out practitioners of -

this or' that than with creating readers. There are
5,000 things to do now where two centuries ago
there 'was but one. And so on and so forth.

And yet, the children of this century and this
country have more attention paid to their read-
ing habits than all the children of all the other
ages put together. Schools and libraries, radios
and (increasingly) films, not to mention publish-
'ers and authors who are making thousands of
books for children every year are banging away
day in and day out to lure primary and elementary
schOol children into becoming 'devotees of books.
“Every child a leisure time reader” might be the
over-all slogan of workers with children. Thou-
sands of children, by the time they are 12, are on
the way to being book-gluttons.

But something happens, at 14 or thereabouts. to
clog the How of reading enthusiasm. The torrent
subsides to a meandering and lazy stream and,
too often, decreases before adulthood to a paltry
trickle fed only by the newspapers and the pulps.

On the other side of the picture there is that
increase of adult leisure time heralded by the eco-
nomic planners. There is more and more time that
could be filled with re—creative activities—not least
among them reading. Where are the grown-up
readers coming from? How is the enthusiasm being
developed so carefully in the eight-to-twelvers
going to be carried over into middle life?

Somewhere in the teens early reading habits are
lost—lost, it seems, because too little attention has

DECEMBER 1946

been paid to the book interests and book needs of
teen-agers. Generally speaking, this age group has i
been neglected on the reading mart. Nobody has
given much thought to what he wants to read. No
publicity campaign is directed toward him. If he is
a natural reader, surely he will find his own books.
But if he is less concerned with reading than with
some other temporarily exciting interest he can,
too easily, drift into non-reading habits. Once
dropped, the reading habit is not easily regained
and when the temporarily exciting interests have
lost their charm they leave behind vacuums that
may be negatively tilled.

A self-appointed researcher, concerned with
these matters, made an unofficial survey of what
teen-agers read of their own volition. She found
that they chose certain kinds of books written for
adults. No “kid stuff” for them, thank you! They
were—as indeed they should be—beyond the stage
of the Rover boys. They were interested in the
world about them, in the thoroughly exciting world
that is their natural habitat. They were interested
in comedy and tragedy, in adventures of the mind
and the spirit, in fiction and drama, mysteries and
essays and historical narrative, all on the adult
level. They liked, for the most part, to read. But,
in many cases, they needed guidance, they needed
some stimulus to overcome the drag of many other

interests.

Signs of Promise

There are signs that this guidance, this stimulus
is going to be supplied. It behooves everyone
working with teen-agers to know what is being
done, to foster the work, to think on these things
and so devise new ways of marking the importance
of books for leisure reading.

All over the country in this fall and winter sea-
son of 1946—47 book clubs of ten or more teen-
agers are being set up. They are formed within
the framework of an existing organization or by
individuals who come together for the sole pur-
pose of being a book club. The’ initiative may have

'come from a high school teacher, a leader in one

of the youth-serving organizations, a recreation
worker or a 16-year-old who wants more books

to read.
(Continued on Page 506)

471

Program Highlights

Excerpts from Annual ‘Reports. of Recreation Departments

attendance 1945-46: 667,228 young people;
381,742 adults.

TUCSON, ARIZONA. Population 37,000. Total

Mexican Independence Day Celebration. “In
September the Department went all out to assist
the Spanish-American population celebrate their

Independence Day with appropriate programs held
in the Armory Park bandshell.”

Christmas Trees. “Each year members of the De-
partment’s staff make a trip to Mt. Lemmon to
secure Christmas trees for local charitable and
church organizations. This year over 200 trees
were brought to the city and distributed by the
Department without charge.”

Visitors' Club. “The Recreation Department
with the cooperation of the Tucson Chamber of
Commerce operated a club for visitors in the
Chamber of Commerce building in downtown
Tucson. The club supervisor arranged regular
sight-seeing trips to nearby points of interest and
parties and socials were weekly events.”

Community Sing. “The weekly community sing
feature has been one of the most unusual regular
attractions of the Sunday programs in the Armory
Park with amateur talent shows and concerts by
various local musical organizations from time to
time. During the winter months the programs
were held in the warm afternoon sunshine and in
the summer were held in the'cool of the evenings.
Hundreds of people attend each week and partici-
pation in the group singing has helped to
develop a fine community spirit among
participants.”

AUSTIN, TEXAS. Population 87,930. Total'
attendance 1945: participants, 1,252,886;
spectators, 841,630.

Boys' Camping. “Begun in the summer
of 1945 on somewhat of an experimental
basis, an organized camping program for
boys was another .new feature, of the Rec-
reation Department. Inherent in the pos-
sibilities for expansion of the Recreation
Department is that of a municipal camping
progra'm with a boys’ camp as part of the
playground division. As a first step, a
young man whose success with boys’ work

472

in the department was outstanding was added to
the staff to serve both as camping director and to ;
assist in playground supervision.

“The general plan of operation allowed the di-f
rector to work on one playground for the first
three days of each week, during which time the.
boys of the neighborhood were contacted. Pre—
camp training was given to those whose applica-
tions to make the trip were accompanied by a
parent’s release. The camping trip began on
Thursday afternoon, with the boys returning on
Saturday morning. Site for the camp was the
city-owned land across the lake from the boat
docks on Lake Austin, and fees for each trip were
$1.75 per boy. Five camping trips were made by
33 boys whose ages ranged from 12-16.”

Family Recreation Workshop. “A cooperative
venture of the Department and the Wooldridge
School P.T.A., that of a Family Recreation \Vork-
shop, was conducted in. six interesting sessions
during the month of April. ‘With the dual objective
of providing fun for the whole family while in-
structing each member in recreative activities de-
signed for family fun, the workshop was attended
by 370 parents and children. The program of the
workshop-consisted of discussions and participa-
tion in family music, games, handcraft, and dra-
matics with a huge family recreation party at
VVooidridge School concluding the series. The
latter event was judged one of the most successful
recreation parties ever staged in an Austin School

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Austin. Texas

RECREATION

PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS 473

building. Games for sons and fathers, and daughters
and mothers were set up on the school ground
with adequate leadership for all activities. Family
dramatics, a marionette show, family square danc-
ing, and other attractions were given simultan-
eously in various rooms in the building. The

crowd numbered approximately 850 children and
parents.”

Intermediate Class in Still Life. Summer Art
Classes I945. “To the broad program of the Rec-
reation Department was added still another phase
during the past year. Although arts and crafts
have been included in the activities for many years,
professional instruction for organized art classes
in oil painting, sketching, charcoals, pastels, and
other media had never been offered.

“With the approach of the summer playground
season in 1945, it was found that an exceptionally
well qualified artist-teacher was available for class
instruction. Through the cooperation Of the libra-
rian, the exhibition room in the public library was
secured for the class site; publicity was started
and plans were made for a children’s class in art,
with preferences indicated by the children to de-
termine the subjects taught.

“The registration was held on the Saturday pre-
ceding the beginning of the planned six-week ses-
sion. It had been anticipated that a class of ten
would not only be acceptable, but a highly desir-
able goal. The registration was finally halted at
25 children and an additional class of ten adults.
The instruction period time was increased, and a
rotating class schedule set up.

“At the end of the six—weeks session, a public
exhibition of the work of the students was held.
Approximately 100 Austin art patrons expressed
pleasure and interest in the work performed by
the students.

“Succeeding classes were started in July and
October, with public exhibitions of the work at
the close of each term. Registrations for these
classes were 20 and 30 respectively.

“An unusually nominal fee of $5 a week for a
six-weeks session of two classes is charged. Age
groups range from six- to 65. Mothers and grand-
mothers who had never had time to indulge in a
pastime such as painting, are finding these classes
an important recreation outlet, while many chil-

dren are supplementing the art instruction received .

in the public schools by enrolling in the art
classes of the Recreation Department.”

Libraries. “In order to provide more adequate
reading material on playgrounds than the Recre-

DECEMBER 1946

ation Department can furnish and to reciprocate

' the favors extended by the library in the recrea-

tion use of its facilities, space in several play-

ground shelter houses was offered to the librarian
to house extension libraries.

“As an experiment in such extension work, it
was decided that for the summer only one loca-
tion should be used. ACCordingly, shelves were
built and placed in the Shipe Shelter and the
librarian placed an extension worker at the loca-
tion for two hours a week. The response from the
Hyde Park Community was gratifying to both the
playground director and the city librarian.

“Stimulated by the success of the first venture,
it was decided to further broaden the service of
the public library by adding, in September and
October, ,four more extension libraries. ACcord-
ingly, Palm, West Austin, Bailey, and Rosewood
libraries were opened. The plan is successful in
that there is an added program feature on the
playgrounds, and library service is extended to
many Austin residents who for one reason or the
other found it impossible to make use of the Pub-
lic Library on Ninth and Guadalupe.”

. Playgrounds and Community Centers. “The local
playground clubs continued their work of furnish:
ing volunteer leadership, serving as interpreters
of the objectives of recreation to their communi-
ties and assisting the community in general by
learning techniques of leadership in training ses-
sions.

“Sponsoring of playgrouiid carnivals, assisting
in staging community night and other special pro-
grams on their local playgrounds, as well as fur-
nishing actual leadership assistance, were the ob-
jectives which were successfully accomplished by
the clubs in 1945.

“One of the premises upon which these clubs is
operated, that of learning actual leadership tech-
niques of training, began to show its value more
tanginy in 1945 than in any previous year. Lead-
ership standards in other community organizations
such as the Parent-Teacher Associations, church
groups, and scouts have been raised wherever
members of playground clubs have identified them-
selves with these organizations.

“The Central Council of Playground Clubs con—
tinued, in 1945, its good offices of assisting the De-
partment in the interpretation of community rec-
reation and familiarizing its members with leader-

ship techniques.
'(C0nfimwd on page 509)

Draft-Age Fun in .the Postwar World

LAME 11" ON the USO
B clubs that America and

her young adults are be-
coming more and more club
and community-center conscious.

At least, that’s the experience of the young men
and women in Madison, Wisconsin, who, based on
the interest of returning servicemen accustomed
to the offerings of USO’s and servicemen’s cen-
ters and as remnants of a USO hostess group
banded together to form a highly succesful Young
Adult Club at the. Madison Community Center.
The Club is designed to fill the recreation needs
of the postwar draft-agers—ex-G.I. Joe and ex-
USO hostess Suzie.

During the war USO clubs and servicemen’s
centers did a great deal more than just furnish
recreation and entertainment for servicemen. At
the same time they furnished a way of fun and
friendship for countless USO hostesses who other-
wise might have been deprived of wholesome male
companionship. They’ furnished a place for lonely,
-rest1ess young'folks to go for recreation. They
developed a habit of recreation in young people
that’s hard to stamp down and forget. And that’s
why these American young adults, back from the
war, uprooted from war jobs and on the loose, are
looking to clubs andgcommunity centers for their
recreation. ’

Left-over Problems

For instance, what becomes of USO hostesses
when there aren’t USO centers in which to be
hostesses? Foolish question? Not in those hun-
dreds of cities and towns in which USO centers
were established. It’s a serious question which
many of these girls have been asking themselves.
For nearly four years girls over 18 and out of high
school—the working crowd—did find a simple
solution to their leisure time recreation problems
through hostessing activities in USO’s. That took
care of their dancing feet, their need for male
companionship, and their natural inclination for
get-togethers with the other girls.

Naturally they miss that organized form of en-
tertainment, that something definite to do each
week, that fellowship with other girls in their
group, that way of meeting men.

“A place to meet other young people—'——a place

474

By PHYLLIS TRIONE
Publicity Chairman. Young Adult Club

Madison. Wisconsin' Community Center

to go, relax, chat and call
their own”—that’s been the
cry of teen-agers who have

established their youth cen- '

ters as a solution. And incidentally, it was because
they were too young to be included in USO activi-
ties that the younger crowd wanted something
similar to USO clubs. They ended by copying
some USO ideas and creating their own organi-
zation and place to go—that much discussed, popu-
lar youth center. _ '

_ But now that the war is over and USO centers
are being closed one by one, it’s not the teen-agers
who are crying for recreation assistance—uthey’ve
got it! Instead, it’s that too often neglected group,
the above-teen-agers, who must often turn to bars
and dance halls for their fun and a way to. meet
and make friends. They are the ones who want to
be taken care of. I

Jack and Larry may be back from the wars,
but it’s a new world and ex-USO hostesses Suzie
and Mary are experiencing a difficult time getting
along with them. Wary males fresh out from under
their sarg’s thumb don’t want to be tied down just
yet. They’re footloose and fancy free and intend
to stay that way for a while. Advice to the love-
lorn columns are full of wails from the girls:
“Why don’t the boys want to date us? What’s
wrong with us? How can we meet them?”

And scholar Jack and Larry busy in an aca-
demic atmOSphere, look down on the tactics of
their younger co-ed classmates, and exasperat-
ingly ignore them. Yet at the same time the Jacks
and Larrys need feminine companionship on their
own “older, experienced” level. ‘The solution, of
course, could well be the poised, out-of-school,
working girl, but contacts between the collegiate
and working world are sometimes difficult to make.

Or Jack-and Larry back home, are finding the
old crowd gone—-scattered and broken up, some
married, some here, some there. How to renew
friendships or replace them can sometimes be a
tough problem even in the old home town.

Madison’s Answer

The answers to these problems have been cou- .

rageously sought by one midwestern town, which
through‘the foresight of recreation leaders and

USO hostesses no longer needed, tackled and

DDF‘DE‘ ll 'T'TFNRT

DRAFT-AGE FUN IN THE POSTIVAR WORLD 475

defeated the problem by
extending the USO club
idea into their coinmu-
nity reconversion life by
carrying on where most
youth centers leave off.
It came about in this way.

When the abandoned
USO building in Madi-
son, Wisconsin, was
turned into a.community
center in February, 1946,
the primary intention was
to cater to the needs of
high, school students as
their Youth Center. But
USO hostesses, after ex—
periencing a month of
doing nothing recreation—
.ally since the closing of
Truax Field in January,
anxiously watched plans
and wondered if some—
where, sometime a place
couldn’t be made for them in that community
center to carry on their social functions and danc-
ing, so recently given up.

At their suggestiOns and with the interest and
help of the executive secretary of the Madison
Recreation Council who had administered their
hostess units during the war, the city’s Recreation
Director called a meeting on February 12 at the
community center to discuss possibilities of what
might be done to take care of recreation needs for
young people out of high school—the above—teen-
agers. Girls who had acted as captains of hostess
groups, some of the young men veterans recently
back in town, and representatives of servicemen’s
organizations made up the 24 young people present
at that meeting.

There were plenty of pros and cons expressed.
Some felt that a community center recreation club
would never work. Others expressed dismay at
the prospect of hundreds of former USO hostesses
appearing at civilian dances, with only a pro—
spective handful of men available in the early
months of postwar reconversion.

Despite all objections plans were made to get
the project under way. At that meeting a tem-
porary executive council of seven representative
young men and women were nominated to get the
ball rolling. They later assigned each other spe-
cific positions on the council.

I

DECEMBER 1946

 

Courtesy .‘lfadison, Wisconsin, Communitj Ccnrcf

A young, married lieutenant was chosen to be-
come the temporary president. It later turned out
that he was enrolled at the University of \Viscon-
sin taking post-graduate work in recreation! A
staff sergeant became vice-president. He was the
congenial desk clerk learning the hotel trade. The
secretary-treasurer was a young girl auditor; the
publicity chairman, an information clerk in the
U. 5. Employment Service; the dance chairman, a
young stenographer working in a veterans’ affairs
'office at the University. The membership chair-
man was a former Truax Field soldier who came
back to Madison to go to college because he liked
the town so well. The outdoor chairman fit ideally
into her position because of her affiliation with the
Youth Hostel group, and the indoor chairman was
a charming southern girl from \Vcst Virginia.
who migrated to Madison during the war. After-
wards, all agreed that it was amazing how well a
haphazard selection had resulted in fitting the right
person into the place where he could do the most
good.

These seven young people got bus} planning
their next meeting which would formally organize
them into a recreation club at the. community cen-
ter. They sent out bulletins to organizations.
stores and offices, sent notices to newspapers and
devised a contest to “name it," getting local papers

476 DRAFT-AGE FUN IN THE POSTWAR WORLD

to cooperate by printing a coupon to clip and
mail in.

At the next meeting‘ a week later, 85 young
people showed up, and after quibbling over sug-
gested names for the club ranging from the Hub,
Madison Mixer, Beehive, Adult Recreation Club
(the ARC), they soberly chose the simple name
of Young Adult Club and awarded the year’s free
membership prize to the young reporter who had
been assigned to cover their meeting. Then they
laid plans for holding their open house and first
dance two weeks later and set about a membership
campaign. They decided membership fees would
be $1.50 per year and that anyone above 19 years
of age interested in an inexpensive form of rec're-
ation could belong. Forty-eight officially became
charter members that night.

The temporary executive council met frequently
during the next two weeks. They composed letters
to all business firms and organizations in the city
and mailed them together with flyers and posters,
asking that they be posted in prominent places so
as to attract the attention and interest of eligible
young persons.

The First Party

Elaborate plans were laid for the opening party
on March 5. A dance theme of “Starlight Time”
was decided upon and decorations planned to
carry it out, with glimmering stars and silhouettes
depicting song titles with “stars” in them. For
those who might not like to dance, free bingo
games with snack bar prizes, ping-pong, billiards,
and group singing were planned.

Then the Council and the charter members of '

the Y AC held their breath as the evening of March
5 rolled around. The weather wasn’t on their side.
It was raining, a steady downpour, but the Open
house (free to everyone) and the dance (free to
_ those who joined up for a year) was scheduled to
open at 7 P. M. and last till II :30.

Soon after that hour they began to flock in. They
jammed around the membership table to enroll, the
piano to sing, and overflowed into the dance hall
and upstairs game rooms. Of the 500 whose curi-
osity prompted them to brave the rains, over 350
joined up then and there convinced that “the club
was just the thing for them.

The feminine element was in the majority that
night, but dance mixers helped spread the avail-
able men around and the girls promised to work
on their boy friends, cousins and brothers for
future gatherings. '

From’ that time on, the YAC grew steadily.
Between 40 and 50 c0u1d be counted on to join
each week and campaigns were devised to attract
more men. White shirts and nylons as prizes for
bringing the most men guests to one night’s affair,
caused one girl to round up 12 men! Letters to
recently returned veterans urging them to come
around as a guest to see what was offered and

attend the dance free brought in more men. And

just the work of good times and fun attracted
others. It wasn’t very long before that ratio of
three girls to every man was reduced to the good
old average of one man to a girl, with hopes (by
the girls) of attaining the prewar ratio of three
men to every girl! The huge attendance, averag-
ing 400 to 500 at each dance, brought about a
decrease in admission charges to but 25 cents.
Prospective members were invited to come and
look the YAC over, and attend the dance for 50
cents. Most of them joined on the spot.

Within three months, close to 1,000 belonged,
with total attendance for the same period 6,600.
That spoke for the success of the YAC. By the
end of six months over 1,400 belonged, thus as-
suring its continued popularity. The YAC mean-
while, as an organization, was entirely self-sup-
porting through receipts from membership fees
and dance admissions.

Membership and Activities

Who belongs to this club? What type of per-
son does it attract?

Most of the persons participating in the activi-
ties offered by this community center club are
young adults who work in the offices of the town
of Madison, Wisconsin, or in its factories. They
are the people who live, not at home, but in room-
ing houses or apartments. They are the people
seen in any city having a difficult time finding en-

tertainment other than at taverns, bars, or dance "

halls. Their average age is about 23 and num-
bered among them are young married couples, all
appreciative of the inexpensive recreation found
in this club. As yet no age limit of this club has
been revealed although the formation recently of
an Older Adult Klub (OAK) at the center for
people over 40 is offering some competition!

And dancing isn’t the only type of recreation
offered. Square dancing, roller skating, craftwork,
a photography club, ping-pong, outings, picnics
around town and via chartered bus to points of
interest, scavenger hunts, softball and basketball

(Continued on page 500)

RECREATION

Music for Millions

RY A “music for millions” con-
Tcert in order to energize a com-

munity to use practically all of its art mediums
and at the same time to bring focus and meaning
to an entire season’s program. One neighborhood
tried it not so very long ago and found it a most
gratifying project.

On the lookout for a community “lift,” a com-
mittee of group workers approached Dean Dixon,
conductor of the American Youth Orchestra, and
asked if he would bring his music to New York
City’s Lower East Side. They had heard that the
maestro would arrange neighborhood concerts at
admissions ranging from nothing at all to a t0p
of 25 cents. .

The committee was not disappointed. Soon after
their request, the young conductor spoke to rep-
resentatives from local settlement houses; public,
parochial, Hebrew and non-sectarian private
schools; churches, the Bowery “Y”; hospitals;
home for the aged; housing projects and political
parties. Plans were laid at this meeting for a
three-way 'Music Day—a morning concert for
three- and four-year-olds where children sat in a
circle within touch-and—feel range of musicians and
instruments; an afternoon concert for seven- to
ten-year-olds, made more dramatic by the addi-
tion of dance and pantomime; and, finally, an
evening concert for the entire community when

murals done by settlement house children were

'used as backdrops for the performance.

As it worked out, practically every age group
was, in some way, actively engaged in the making
and the selling of this event. While the original
committee of program workers under Mr. Dixon’s
guidance had set the project in motion, the actual
work of running the concert was taken over by
members of five settlement houses.

Boys and girls from Christadora House, Grand
Street Settlement, Henry Street Settlement, Jew-
ish Settlement, and Madison House mimeographed
tickets, flyers, press releases; wrote program notes;
painted posters and murals; and sold tickets at the

box office. Neighborhood shops, schools, and
movie houses displayed the handmade posters and
mimeographed Hyers. 1

Tickets for the “baby” concert were made by
young neighborhood artists with imagination.

DECEMBER '1 946

By PAULA LEVINSON

Stick figures sat at music stands
strumming their strings. A line
drawn conductor stood on a podium conducting a
pair of song birds. A tympanist pounded his drum.
Black notes bedecked the edges of green and blue
tickets and the details of the concert were printed
in youthful script to delight the hearts of boys
and girls.

Flyers—in fancier print than we can type—set
forth the program and the sponsorship this way

Lower East Side Program Workers’ Committee

presents
a MUSIC FOR MILLIONS Concert
with Dean Dixon conducting the
American Youth Orchestra
SATURDAY, APRIL 28, AT 8:30 P. M.

Playhouse of the Henry Street Settlement
466 Grand Street, New York City

PROGRAM? Overture to Russian and Ludmilla
M. 1. Clinics

Arioso . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .J. S. Bach
Night on Bald Mountain. .M . M omsorgsky

Symphony Espagnole . . . . . . . . . . .13. Lola
A Western thapsodyu George K Icimiuger
Fifth Symphony . . . . . . .L. um Beethoven

5 cents, 15 cents, 25 cents—tickets avail-
able at Madison House, Grand Street
Settlement, Christadora House, Jewish
Settlement, and Henry Street Settlement.
Tickets also available at the Playhouse
on the night of the performance.
Youth groups from the above mentioned

houses are participating.

Programs, on a most ambitious scale, were
mimeographed at Christadora House and dis-
tributed on the night of the performance by a
dozen young teen-agers who served as ushers. The
programs carried a story of Mr. Dixon and his
young orchestra, short notes on the composers,
personal acknowledgments for mimeographing.
mural painting, the handling of publicity. Names
of box office workers were mentioned as well as
those of stage technicians and ushers.

The following story, written by two I 1-year-olds
from Grand Street Settlement, to describe the

Beethoven Fifth, will give you an inkling of the
kind of program notes the youngsters composed!

“We imagine the rich people living on top of a

hill and down below the poor peOple live in dirty
old tenement houses. The tenement people didn’t

477

WHEN?
WHERE?

COST?

478 MUSIC FOR MILLIONS

like it, so they fought to have equal rights. A
handshake between rich and poor made the peace.

” This theme was faithfully portrayed in a
mural painted at Grand Street.

The most enthusiastic of all the neighborhood
volunteers were the publicity workers — young
adults between the ages of 18 and 25 who produced
this proud and professional-looking release for the
attention of school editors.

“Program Workers’ Committee of the Lower
East Side settlements
265 Henry Street, New York, N. Y.
Orchard 4-1100 '
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Attention: SCHOOL EDITORS

“By running their first 5-25 cent community
concert to be given by Dean Dixon and his Ameri-
can Youth Orchestra next Sunday, April 28th,
at 8 :30 P. M., at the Playhouse of the Henry Street
Settlement, teen-agers from five settlement houses
on the Lower East Side of Manhattan are demon-
strating to their community that ‘juveniles’ can be
creative (instead of deliquent). I

“Eleven- to 20-year-old boys' and girls from
Christadora House, Grand Street Settlement,
Henry Street Settlement, Jewish Settlement, and

Madison House are painting murals to be used as '

backdrops, are making posters, mimeographing

and distributing flyers, selling tickets, writing pro- .

gram notes, getting out press releases, and ushering
for the concert Saturday night.

“Believing that concerts should be seen as well
as heard, Mr. Dixon has inspired our neighbor-
hood boys and girls to paint huge murals which
give their impression of the music to be played at
his concert. He has come to the settlements and

talked to the youngsters while playing recordings
of the works, or he has invited them up to re-

'hearsals.

“At Grand Street Settlement boys and girls are
working on the Glinka Overture to Rasslart and
Ludmtlla and the Beethoven Fifth. At Henry
Street boys and girls are making a mural for
Lalo’s Symphony Espagrtole. At Jewish Settle-
ment I7 young people are at work on George
Kleinsinger’s Western Rhapsody and Moussorg-
sky’s Night on Bald Mountain. At Madison
House two teen-agers are working on the Bach
Art'oso in pastels. The contribution at the Christa-

' dora House has been of a more practical nature.

Advertising has been their specialty—making
posters and mimeographing program notes.

“The concert is a sell-out, for at least 150 II—
to-20’s have combined in the-job of advertising,
selling tickets, painting murals, writing notes and
releases.

“Here is the blueprint for a concert for and by
the people in low-income neighborhoods !”

t This story was picked up and printed in the
local papers and the N ew York Teacher News. .

Probably the youngsters who “got the most for
their money” were those boys and girls who went
to rehearsal hall to prepare themselves for their
mural painting. They started off one crisp spring
morning—seven boys and girls aged 8 to 13,
with sketch pads under their arms 'and pencils
clutched in their fingers. They were accompanied
by the 15-year-old girl who was" to supervise the
painting and by their art teacher and assistant
activities director. _

It was like starting on a trip to the moon!.

(Continued on page 501)

 

Courtesy Henry Street Settlement. New York City

Some Young Music Lovers

ERHAPS YOU HAVE read or

heard of Visalia—a town of

10,000 in the San Joaquin
Valley, California—and of her Creative Arts Fel-
lowship. The Fellowship was organized in Febru—
ary, 1936, by six writers and two musicians. Since
then the organization has grown to six units held
together by a Council—three life members who are
coordinators at large and the president and co—
ordinator of each unit.

By 1944 the Music Unit had lost many members
because of war demands, because artists had moved
to larger cities and because young couples had
married and settled elsewhere. One of the mem-
bers thought it would be a good idea to “grow”
new members for the unit! So there came into
being a Junior Unit of music loverswages,‘ 10 to
15 inclusive. Their aim is “training in leadership
and preparing for participation in community pro-
gram.” Membership is limited to 20 because the
group meets in homes, some of them small. How-
ever, an especially talented boy of eight was dis—
covered and a member moved he be accepted as
Unit Mascot. The motion carried and the unit
I now has 21 members. The officers are elected for
a three months’ term. '

Junior music lovers are given the same charge
as their elders—“Be unremitting in perfecting
your own creative urge. Cooperate in furthering
the progress of all units—Writers’, 'Music, Arts
and Crafts, Floral, Drama, Thread Crafts, and
Junior. Be- constant in kindly fellowship with all
the units. Especially be constant in your quest for
beauty in other lives. When glimpsed, encourage
'its possessor to join our Creative Arts Fellowship
and work with us in our supreme aim of building
for world fellowship.”

Programs

The junior annual dues, 50 cents, are half the
adult dues. Juniors pay half of this sum into the
Council treasury. They meet the first and third
Mondays of each month from 7 to 8 :30 P. M. The
program opens with a brief business session con-
ducted according to Robert’s Rules of Order. Each
member answers roll call by a short talk on the
theme of the evening. The group sings together for
10 minutes under the direction of one member,

DECEMBER 1946

By GRACE S. EICHMANN .
Visalia. California

another member accompanying. A
longer talk on the program theme
a is followed by two or three spe-
cial numbers—solos, duets, or group work. Then
the boys and girls are ready for a game while two
members and their mothers prepare refreshments.
No adult plans anything a Junior can work out.

A member of the adult group works out the
year’s program which is incorporated in the Fel-
lowship Year Book. Among the program themes
have been ChOpin, National Anthems, Paderewski,
Covered Wagon Days, Melchior, Negro Music.
The program most enthusiastically presented was
Operas. Every youngster showed a surprising
knowledge of opera history. The December theme
was Carols. After a brief session the group ad-
journed to go carolling for shut-ins, for the for-
estry service home, the fire department, and the
Old Folks’ Home, then.returned for refreshments.

The Junior Unit participates in three joint meet-
ings during the year. The semi-formal dinner meet-
ing is held in September. Anniversary Guest
Night and an Exhibit in the Civic Auditorium is
presented as a gift to the community in March.
In 1945 the Juniors provided the entire program
for this meeting to the delight of the audience, and
in 1946 their program contribution was outstand-
ing. At the time a 10-year-old boy directed the
Junior chorus as well as the audience singing the
national anthem. The third joint meeting is a
Garden Party—a family pot—luck dinner in the
county park. This program is made up of surprise
numbers, usually nonsensical, by each unit. The
youngsters swing, play games, or go boating be-
tween scheduled activities.

Values

What are the tested results of this project? The
youngsters acquire skill in conducting meetings,
in committee work, in courteous listening while
others report or perform, in talking instead of
reading their responses at roll call. And, of course,

they make progress in musical performance.
Recently, in order to evaluate results better, the

coordinator friend of the Juniors asked them to
write a short sketch on “What the Junlor Unlt

Means to Me.” Some of their responses follow:
(Continued on page 504)

479

Who Minds a Little Rain?

ATURDAY, MAY 4, 1946 was,
S at first glance, a literal wash—

out. Rain, starting shortly
before dawn, had drenched the
city of N orwalk, and its steady downpour con-
tinued throughout the morning, its every drop add-
ing to the apprehension of the city’s smaller fry,
who had appropriated this day’for themselves and
who were volubly afraid that the affair for which
they waited would be cancelled.

For the affair was the county-wide Pet ’n Pup
Parade, which had long been on tips of young
tongues and an anticipation dear to young hearts.
It was not to be an ordinary parade, eithe‘r—for
weren’t there prizes to be awarded for the best
pets? Thirty-five of them, too? And wouldn’t old
Shep, or Billy the goat, or Tabby, or Raccy the
raccoon certainly be judged among the best? And

. -

480

By GEORGE A. LEPPER
Park and Recreation Director

Norwalk. Ohio

 

how about the free double feature
movie in the afternoon? Cancel
the parade? Oh, no!

So, borrowing an edict from the
theatrical profession, the show went—pardon—
splashed on. It carried with it the concerned hap—
piness of 350 youngsters and the grunts, growls,
meows, quacks and squeals of some 400 reluctant
and assorted dogs, cats, mice, rabbits, goldfish,
ducks, pigeons, chickens, turtles, raccoons, goats,
sheep, pigs—all of which made a noisy, iif colorful,
show and a long and damp procession.

From every standpoint the parade was judged
a success. Its color insured pictorial and news-’
paper coverage, its simplicity guaranteed good
numerical participation and its demands upon fa—
cilities, finances, publicity and supervision were

(Continued on page 498 )

Courtesy Park and Rerreatiow Department, Norwalk, Ohio

RECREATION

Recreational and Musical Therapy

By ANNA H. FURMAN and CAROLINE E. FURMAN

HE NEW JERSEY STATE HOSPITAL was Opened
Tin 1848. Monies were appropriated by the
state legislature for the purchase of land and
the erection of buildings. The hospital is ideally
located within the city limits of Trenton, New Jer-
sey, in a setting of acres of lawn and hundreds of
native and imported flowering shrubs and trees.
Like all hospitals established at about this period
when little was known about the causes and treat-
ment of insanity, emphasis was placed. upon the
educational and religious training and the routine
activity of the patients. Early reports of the hos—
pital,describe accurately the hours of classroom
attendance with courses in writing, English. and
the like and the insistence that all patients whose
condition permitted attend church twice on Sun—
day as well as going to prayer meeting on Wed-
nesday evening. Patients were awakened in the
morning with a bell which began a routine adhered
to.closely throughout the day. There was little

time for idleness. There was probably no planned .

program of recreation as a therapeutic measure.

New Ideas

Music was a part of the religious activities. It
was probably limited to church music and the
singing of sacred songs until about 1860 when
certain employees were given a slight increase in
salary to act as musicians and teachers of music.
At about this time a band was organized, instru—
ments were provided, and band concerts were
featured two and three evenings each week.
Shortly after Dr. Henry A. Cotton became medi-
cal director in 1907 he obtained the services of a
young woman who devoted her entire time to ar-
ranging programs of activity and musical enter-
tainments in the Assembly Hall and on the wards
and grounds. It became apparent to him that
certain patients responded to this form of atten-
tion and he endorsed the theory that planned ac-
tivity was a valuable form of therapy.

In 1925 the writers of this paper became the di—
recting heads of the recreational and musical
therapy departments of the hOSpital. These depart-
ments, together with the occupational therapy de-
partment, were administratively classified under

DECEMBER 1946

the general title of activity therapy programs. The
recreational and musical therapy divisions of this
department work very closely together and, prac-
tically speaking, function as a unit. The activities
are varied and include facilities for contacting

‘ patients in the recreation hall, on the wards, and
' on the grounds. A variety of opportunities for the

participation of practically all patients are available
and our time is divided between calisthenics, folk
dancing, singing and games on the wards together
with picnics, May Day exercises, and circuses on
the lawn. Special occasions and holidays are cele-
brated with fitting programs. in the recreation
hall. Throughout the year motion pictures are
shown three nights weekly. Outstanding artists
are obtained at intervals during the winter months
and an adequate budget enables us to provide an
exceptionally high standard of entertainment.
Many outstanding leaders in the field of music and
art offer their services gratis and return to us
repeatedly, realizing the response and the gratitude
of the patients. Over a period of years Ted Shawn
and his associates have visited us once or twice
each year.

For 21 years we have staged a May Day pro-
gram. This is held on the lawn in front of the

‘ main building with a background of old flowering

trees. Patients sit on the hill which forms a natural
amphitheater and is shaded with tulip trees in
bloom. Approximately 1,500 patients enjoy this
pageant of color and song enacted by the patients
of the recreational therapy classes. The color and
beauty. of the occasion is enriched by hearing the
American Legion band which parades about the
campus and gives an impressive demonstration. A
local ballet group gives a charming and brilliant
interpretation of many delightful dances. The
Queen of the May is selected from among the

patients and she and her attendants are appropri-
ately costumed in colorful dresses made by the
members of the class. All costumes are created

from multi-colored crepe paper in soft pastel
shades. There is a pageant of song and folk danc-

ing and the traditional May Pole Dance.
( Continued on page 503)

481

 

Photo by Anita Fowler

And they came with haste. and found Mary, and Joseph, and +he babe lying in a manger

‘ “(Yélnrg in (limb in the “illiglipal”

HRISTMAS CAME to Palo Alto, California, twice in 1946, the first time six months ahead of schedule.

On three of the hottest July days of recent record, more than 200 children ranging in' age from 2

to I6 reported to the recreation department’s children’s theater. They were, not too comfortable,
for instead of their accustomed summer costume of bare toes and sun suits they wore shoes and socks
and heavy overalls, carried Windbreakers and mackinaws.

They were going to make a motion picture,* these children, to tell again the story of Christ’s
Nativity. Some of the “youngsters, in simple costumes with accessories made from such commonplace
things as crepe paper doilies and string' floor mops, would play their parts as wisemen and shepherds and
members of the Holy Family. Others would be angels and star polishers. Some would sing songs of
praise with their junior high school companions. The large majority would act as audience, for the Elm .
takes its watchers through the preparation for a Christmas program to its final production by children of I‘

grade-school age.
The pictures on this and the three following pages testify to the fact that the reverence and the joy

of Christmas .were as present on those three hot July days as they will be in the hearts and minds of
people of every age during the coming month.

*The film is titled A Child Shall Lead Them, It is adapted from the book, A Little Child, by Jessie and Elizabeth Orton Jones, Viking
Press, New York. It was produced by Children’s Productions. Palo Alto, California, from whom it is available.

482 , RECREATION

“GLORY TO GOD IN THE HIGHEST”

. .
‘t .0.»
9009_.
,ooq. ‘
,"," ‘rtctz.i_tt
i 0.! a
éo°¢ii' .‘.,'.,‘.
x—IO.‘ .nva’ .
"’“°" -' drag»: id.
'*"“ ‘OM‘OIIQO _a
q inth. q .,....o ‘..I‘
b-‘Oza§v...l.,.‘,,'i I.
'o**.~_vos «.an ..,
- .

C

I-

 ,

5* .r
.4

‘ ' I ‘ l _ - -. _ M

Photo by Anilu Fun-In :I‘ an “ -I ( 51a 's 'u "A 1.0 1 x ’2' m

My soul dofh magnify fhe Lord

 

DECEMBER 1946

Photos by Anita Fowler

Anh then» mm: with the angel

A muliiiuhe nf the headenlg 111151

Erataing @nh
Anh gaging . . .

 

(61mg In @1121 in the highest

Anti an earth

Ware

n
P
m
\u
r
a
m
n
t
"m.
\u
n
n
®

 

otos by Anita Fowler

“Better Members of the Community"

EOPLE WHO ARE FOND of classifying their fel-

lowmen into either-or-groups might well say

that the whole world is divided into dog-
lovers and dog-haters—or at least dog—dislikers. If
you just don’t like dogs it will make very little
difference what training a pup has. But even the
greatest friend of the canine breed can be annoyed
almost into the other camp by a dog with bad
manners. The dog that howls, the dog that chases
madly after anything on wheels, the dog that
jumps with exuberant but annoying enthusiasm
upon any unwary visitor to the home—all these
creatures are a menace to human peace and defi-
nitely unfair to fellow canines.

Some citizens of Montclair, New Jersey, feeling
strongly upon such matters felt, too, that it wasn’t
the dog’s fault if he behaved unmannerly. As
masters they recognized their own reSponsibility
for their pets and sought a way to remedy a bad
situation. They thought the best remedy lay in
obedience training tests and they appealed to the
Montclair Recreation Department to provide the
necessary instruction for people and animals.

Thus it came about that the department in-
cluded a program of this kind in its 1945-46
schedule of activities. The program was so suc-
cessful that it is being continued and expanded
this year.

How It Works

Two classes—one for novices, one for more ex-
perienced groups—were taught in the autumn of
1946 by a volunteer who thinks that the hours he
spends in this way are thoroughly worthwhile. The
primary purpose of the course is “to make dogs
better members of the community” at home, on the
streets, with people, with other dogs. A secondary
purpose is to prepare dogs for showing at Ameri-
can Kennel Club bench shows and to participate
in the A.K.C. obedience trials. There are no pedi-
grees required before a dog can learn his lessons
of obedience. Any dog, no matter how confused
his ancestry, is eligible. '

Dogs and trainers attend 12 weekly classes. The
first meeting last year was full of noise with the
park shelter house, where it was held, an echoing
bedlam of howls and barks until the leader took
over and, through his understanding of dogs, re-
stored quiet. The class meetings are, really, only

ARE

   
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  

the beginning of the program, for the trainer work:
with his pup from I 5 to 25 minutes on each of the
other six days of the week to set the lesson:
through habit. This year, too, the obedience train-
ing classes will be supplemented by other meetings
when lectures and discussions on dog care will be
conducted periodically by local veterinarians.

Library Cooperation
The recreation department’s work with and for
dogs has been aided and abetted by the Montclair
Library. Contrary to usual custom this library
does not show a “N 0 Dogs Allowed” sign. Dogs,
as long as they are leashed, may come and go wit
their masters. As a matter of fact the library’s‘:
attitude goes beyond mere tolerance. A pan ofl
fresh water is kept filled for thirsty canine visitorst
and dogs familiar with the library through many]
trips make a bee-line for that watering place, some-i
times insisting on a drink before their human com-
panions can return their books. The library has,
moreover, an extensive collection of books about
dogs for all age groups.

It is not, therefore, surprising that the library
staff took more than a passing interest in the rec-
reation department’s training program. Specifi—
cally their interest had issue in a radio program
over broadcasting station WAAT during National
Dog Week (September 22 to 29, 1946). On W ed-
nesday of that week a member of the library’s
reference staff, the instructor for the obedience
classes and the assistant director of recreation went
on the air to tell the station’s listeners about the
training classes.

Rules and Regulations

In order that the classes could go forward with
maximum efficiency a few simple rules were mimeo-
graphed and given to every entrant. They read as
follows:

Each handler, at all times, is legally responsible
for his dog.

The trainer or the recreation department is not
liable in case of accident. Handler assumes re—
sponsibility at all times.

The trainer has the privilege of rejecting from
the class a handler and dog if, in the opinion of the
trainer, it is necessary.

(Contiwéed on page 503)

R-

 

   
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

ll ISUAL AIDS” -— or “audio-visual aids” —— has
become, in the last few years, almost a
phrase to conjure with. Films and film

strips, slides and recordings, charts and graphs
and blown-up photographs have been pointed to
by various and sundry people as the cure-all for
v'every organizational ill. Whether or not you can
go the whole hog with the super-enthusiasts, it is
certainly true that the brain remembers well what
the eye sees and the ear hears, and this is as valid
.when you’re trying to spread the doctrine of recre-
ation as it is when your aim is making clear to the
. young hopeful the difficulties of geometry. It is,
therefore, good news that the recreation movement
can point with pride to two new advocates with the
eye and the ear, two 16 mm films in sound and
.color.

It is important that we can add those two words
“with pride,” for bad visual aids are almost worse
than none at all. The two pictures which have
been designed to further the cause of community
u recreation ar‘e Playtown, U.,S‘.A. and $ 1,000 for
‘ Recreation. They were made with care under the

auspices of the Athletic Institute. Time and
' thought and understanding went into their pro-
duction. Outstanding leaders in the recreation
‘ profession lent their counsel to the producers.
- Others saw and checked the prints before they
were finally released. The results are both sound

and interesting.

Both pictures lay their chief visual emphasis on
the physical aspects of the recreation program, on
team sports and active games. Both do take cogni-
zance, however, of other features that must go
into the well-rounded program.

The mechanics of color and sound are good in
both films. They are easy to listen to, easy to fol—
low. They are alive, and have avoided the error

of dashing off in all directions at one and the
same time. .

The Stories

Its running time is 25 minutes. It presents the

problem of a town (population about 50,000)
which, though it has many excellent features for

community living, has no planned recreation fa-
cilities.

DECEMBER 1946

Playtown, U .S .A . is the longer of the two films. .

Films for Recreation

The first half of the picture is seen through the
eyes of a high school teacher. Disturbed by the ills
that children are heir to when they must play in
streets and dumps and railroad yards, he sets to
work to get good community facilities for his town.

The story of this one man’s efforts as he spreads
interest in the problem through the network of
the town’s organizations and their citizen members
is. the story of how any community of the same
size can set up a recreation program. It is, in
many ways, the same familiar and dynamic story
of citizen organization for any community need.

It is a good thing to have such a procedure clearly
presented on behalf of recreation.

The second part of the picture shows the pro-
gram in action. Here is no academic presentation
of an Utopian dream. The scenes of people taking
their recreation as part of a city’s planning are
actual shots of a real recreation program in a city
of about 50,000 people.

$1,000 for Recreation is designed to do a dif-
ferent kind of job. It is about half as long as
Playtown, USA. and might well be used on the
same program as a prologue to the longer picture.
It deals with the question of how to handle the
benevolent private organization which, having
some surplus money and an enthusiasm for recre-
ation, wants to “do something about the old vacant
lot on the corner.” Such a situation is described
in the opening sequences of the picture. The eager-
ness of an officer from a small town civic club with
a thousand dollars to spend for recreation is coun-
tered and wisely channeled by an experienced rec-
reation executive. The picture pounds away at the
necessity for long range thinkingl‘about community
recreation, demonstrates the desirability of a tax-
supported program, shows conclusively the pitfalls
of private sponsorship.

Usage

The films, either separately or taken together,
should be particularly useful in communities which
are considering a recreation setup for the first
time. Playtown, U.S.A. especially, shows very
clearly the need for building such a program on a
broad and sound base of community understand-
ing and community good will. Both films were

(Continued on page 508)

487

Program for a City

HE DEPARTMENT of Recreation
Tin Kingsport, Tennessee, was

started in 1942 under the Of-
fice of Civilian Defense. It was .
carried on the following year by the Community
Chest with the addition. of a small budget for
equipment and supplies from the city. In those
years it took root and is now functioning under an
appointed seven member City Recreation Com-

mission.

The chief recreation facility, the Civic Audi-
torium, was released in the early spring of 1943
by a war industry which had used it as an admin-
istration building. The advisory council of the
OCD requested of the City Council permission to
use the building as a community center. Permis-
sion was granted and, with Lanham Act funds,
the first year-round recreation program for the
City of Kingsport began to take shape.

Facilities and Planning

The Auditorium, located by the city fathers
when they were planning for the community about
a mile and a half from the business section, is in
what is now becoming a center of the residential
area. It provides, among other things, an office
for the Director of Recreation. Just a stone’s
throw from the Auditorium is the American
Legion Swimming Pool built by Hammond Post
N o. 3 and deeded to the city. About I 50 yards to
the east is the football and baseball stadium. There
are, in addition, live summer playgrounds and two
school buildings used for winter athletic activities
and as a skating rink. In and about these facilities

major recreation activities are conducted the year-

round.

Kingsport is the home of the Tennessee East-
man Corporation and of several smaller industries.
The Eastman Corporation had an excellent recre—
ation program and the smaller industries were at-
tempting to set up programs of their own. It
seemed a wise plan to create an Industrial Recre—
ation Committee which would work closely with
the City’s Recreation Director and would coor-
dinate all industrial recreation activities in the
community. It was due in large part to the work
of this Committee that some of the recreation op—
portunities described below were possible.

488

By W. C. MCHORRIS

Director of Recreation
Kingsport. Tennessee

Because of the gas shortage the
first year’s activities were rather
small in comparison with the num-
ber of industrial and war workers
living in the city and its surrounding area. The
seed, however, was sown in 1943 and by 1944
time had been allowed for planning a program
suitable to all types of participants. This program
now includes a wide choice of activities originat—
ing within the community and an opportunity for
children and adults to hear and see some of the
best outstanding entertainment and educational
programs offered by metropolitan booking agents.

The Community Program

The Civic Auditorium is the hub of local recrea—
tion activities. It is a spacious building. Within
its walls are live small club rooms which can be
made into one large room by rolling back sliding
partitions. Just across the hall there is a large
dual purpose gymnasium. A kitchen which ad-
joins the clubrooms may be used for preparing
banquets or special parties. '

Two nights each week craft classes are held in'
one of the- small rooms. In others there are games
five nights a week. Saturdays and Sundays are
reserved for special parties, dances and club pro-
grams.

The gymnasium is in almost constant use for
stage productions, basketball league games, volley
ball, badminton, wrestling bouts, motion pictures
or the ever popular name band dances. Among
the name bands which have played for dancing
are Sammy Kaye, Jimmy Dorsey, Ina Ray Hut-
ton, Tony Pastor, Erskine Hawkins and one of the
Spotlight Bands. Guy Lombardo and the former
Glenn Miller orchestra are scheduled for 1946
dances. '7

By September 1946 reservations of the Audi~
torium’s facilities by clubs, civic groups and pri-
vate organizations had been made through March
of 1947. Cheek by jowl- with these special pro—
grams will be the Department’s regular nightly ‘.
schedule including its special family nights and
weekly athletic program.

Cultural Series
The programs brought to Kingsport from the
outside add a kind of plus value to the local ac-

(Contfnucd on page, 505)

RECREATION

OBBYISTS from stamp collectors
to people who write the Lord’s
Prayer on the head of a pin,
lemonstrated their collections at the
Vlanitowoc County Hobby Show held at Mani-
och, Wisconsin, and sponsored by the Manito—
voc Recreation Department. The show was held
n the Armory Exposition Building at the Fair—
rrounds over a weekend, opening on' Friday eve-
ing and continuing Saturday afternoon and eve—
ing and Sunday afternoon and evening.

    
    
 
   

Hobbyists and collectors of all types we're given
11 opportunity to show their collections and
lemonstrate their works if they were amateurs.
F he show did not include pets of any kind.

The three day program was a double-barreled
iffair. There were booths for the display of col—
ections or creations by the hobbyists. Interest ran
iigh and an amazing number of different kinds of
lobbies were represented. The list of' entries
nakes fascinating reading because it testifies to
he range of things open to anyone with a touch
)f collecting mania and proves, if proof be needed,
he you don’t have to be a millionaire to pursue a
lobby. Here are the collections that were entered:

Insects, greeting cards and napkins, embroidery,
dolls, clay modeling, numis-matics, philatelics, medals,
Indian relics, antiques, needlework, vases, Hower ar-
rangements, model airplanes, wood carvings, model
electric train and scenery, collections of postcards,
pictures of movie stars, snapshots, coins, a miniature
circus, model Iboats, giraffes, pencils, paper weights,
dogs, party favors, bird lbooks, penguins, cats, novelty

‘ gift wrappings, souvenirs, spoons, scout merit badges,
’ flatinon trivets, Jap money, chair caning, war me-
mentos, foreign money, scrapbooks, car design draw-
ings, knots, braids, collection of safety posters, Con-
federate money, miniature animals, paintings, toys,
pictures of opera stars, water .colors, cacti, sea shells,
beer labels, old—fashioned hat collection, doll houses,
collection of angels, Christmas seals, cigar bands, dried
apple dolls, lamps, butterflies, cigarette packages,
' leather tooling,‘oi1 paintings, hotel soap collections,
fishing tackle, belt Ibuckles, buttons, frogs, paper
flowers, lapidary work, autographs, arrowheads, bot-
tles, bells, penny banks, ‘beer steins and mugs, fans, cut
stones, Christmas tree .‘ornamen-ts, bisque figures‘, first
editions, old jewelry, old hat pins, soap carvings and

pipes.

Highlights
All the exhibits were interesting. Some of them

DECEMBER 1946

By A. J. SCHARA
Recreation Director
Mani’rowocl Wisconsin

All-County Hobby Show

were outstanding in attracting crowds
of spectators.

The collection of penguins included
700 examples no two of which were
alike. In it there were samples of every kind of
representation of the bird that looks like a man
from small glass replicas to large stuffed “origi-
11als.”

Another collection which attracted attention was
a collection of 60 dolls including items from
France, San Salvador and Guatemala. One doll
was more than 60 years old. Another‘ had a tin
head.

One exhibit was made up of frogs in porcelain,
glass and metal. Another, of dried apple dolls,
copied such varied and familiar personages as
Madame Chiang Kai Shek, Old Mother Hubbard,
Captain Kid, Pistol—Packing Mama, Old Black
Joe, Chief Yellow Thunder. The collection of cacti

_was extensive. Other exhibits that were novel and

arresting were paper weights, a collection of
giraffes from one inch high to six feet in addition
to books and pictures on this animal, scrapbook
collections of over 1,000 cigar bands, 6,723 match
book covers (one from every State in the Union
and from 63 foreign countries), lapidary work and
rough stones, including fulgurite—vitrified tubes
of sand formed by the intense heat of lightning
when it penetrates a mass of sand and fuses a por-
tion of the materials through which it passes.

Entertainment

The second string to our bow was a varied en-
tertainment program primarily by local people.
Their hobbies were such activities as music or
fancy skating or acrobatics. Their contributions
to the entertainment of the visitors ranged from a
performance by “Donald Duck” to organ music.
For this part of the program the President of the
Manitowoc Recreation Board served as Master of

Ceremonies.

In addition to these “live” acts, there was a con-
tinuous showing of home movies in a little area set
aside as a theater. Some of the films were taken

in Manitowoc. Others were made at various points
of interest throughout the United States. This

feature of the program was very well received.
( C ontimwd on page 504)

489

Small Town to the City*

HERE ARE MANY WAYS of measuring a city,
but we know of none more accurate than the
. pleasure of living in it. What does it offer its
people, footloose adults and teen-agers, well-to-do
and poor?

By that measure Kansas City’s organized and
free recreation is just starting a climb toward goals
that seem fantastic today. Yet they are backed by
unanswerable logic, human interest and human
yearning.

By common consent the large cities generally
offenmore of the pleasures that cost money, while
the small towns or cities give more in neighborli-
ness and the pleasures that are free. Kansas City’s
“fantastic” goals for public recreation are set up to
equal what almost any small city under 10,000
takes for granted.

Can you think of a town of,6,000 without its
good ball diamond where teen-agers and adults
play throughout the Spring and summer? The
National Recreation Association sets one ball dia- '.
mond for each 6,000 population as a reasonable
standard for the larger cities.

Kansas City has eight major diamonds and thir- '
teen passable minor diamonds. To equal the modest
recommendation it needs at least 46 more. Fan-
tastic? All depends on whether a city is willing to
go ahead and do the things that were obvious in
the small towns where a large part of our popula-
tion was born and reared.~

Beginnings of Progress

Our public recreation started six years ago from
next to nothing. It has made a lot of progress.
But the small town pleasures on a scale for our
population are still years away.

This summer play and attendance at the public
ball diamonds have gone up 35 to 40 percent.
Space is jammed. There are no industrial leagues
and only one league for women. Others straining
to start are held up for lack of space. No one can
say how many more thousands of boys, girls and
adults will rediscover the delights of the local ball
diamond if given a chance.

Using an equally modest yardstick on softball
needs the national association’s recommendations‘
would mean I 33 softball diamonds for Kansas

 

' Reprinted by permission from The Kansas City Star, July 21, 1946.

490

I

City. We have 38. Although the best time to play
is after dinner, not one of our 38 is lighted.
Suppose Kansas City had all the good baseball
and softball diamonds it needed. Equip the major
baseball diamonds with adequate stands, running
water and toilet facilities. Locate the softball dia-
monds at major play centers with the same type 0
facilities. This one activity would mean a tre-
mendous summer of healthy, outdoor life for tens
of thousands.'
Many small towns have good courts for croquet
and roque. Virtually all have horseshoe pits.
If your neighborhood had a modern recreation
area it would have all those game facilities plus
handball, shufHeboard, badminton and almost any-
thing else in demand. For the younger children it
would offer permanent play equipment including
covered sandpiles. All its equipment would b
kept in a permanent building on the grounds. It
would provide a shelter, water fountains and
toilets. Such a recreation area would be a bus
center for spring, summer and autumn outdoor
activities, a center of community life.
Kansas City doesn’t have one such center today.
The forerunner is the system of neighborhood
playgrounds with little equipment and no perma-
nent facilities. Such as they are they attract a
daily attendance above 5,000. A beginning.

   
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
    
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  

Goals for Summer . . .

Inexpensive social life sponsored by the city is
booming this summer. The bitterest criticism
against a large city comes from human loneliness.
This summer there is a square dance every night
with the attendance ranging between 300 and 400.
Community sings to the tunes of a five-piece pep
band are bringing together 400 to 500 a night.
Teen-age clubs are swarming with youth with the
East high school group collecting 500 to 600 every
night its club is open.

The spirit of community socialrecreation is as
deep in the hearts of city people as it is around
the band stand of a small town park. It simply.
requires a lot more organization—and 'Kansas
City still has a long way to go.

Band concerts are a Kansas City institution.
This summer the crowds have grown beyond any-
thing in the past because of .dehnite locations.

(Continued on page 508)

\.

|
RECREATIONI

. PLAY

WHEN a recreation staff
looks to its own fun——
that’s news. And that’s
just what happened in Long Beach, California,
last Christmas. Two hundred and seven people—
staff members and their children—consumed 173
pounds of turkey, played games, sang carols and
watched a Christmas film.

Staff Party

Two hundred twenty-one
Yuletide programs were
planned in 1945 by the
Los Angeles Recreation
Department for children and adults of the city.

Among these were community night Christmas
programs for all members of the family with music,
carol singing and other entertainment; children’s
events-plays, parties, operettas and Christmas
pageants put on by the children for the benelit'of
their parents and friends; teen-age dances and old‘
fashioned dancing parties; special programs for
boys’ and girls’ clubs and grOUps of all kinds;

neighborhood carol singing tours on Christmas
Eve.

Christmas in Los
An geles

STUDENTS in schools and
colleges in and near De-
troit recently had an op-
portunity to learn more about the world they live
in, thanks to the Detroit N ews. Under the auspices
of that newspaper Frank Gehr presented lectures
on birds, animals, insects, frogs, toads, howers.
Mr. Gehr, who participated during the summer of
1946 in the program of the Westchester County
(New York) Camps, gave his illustrated talks for
three weeks—to youngsters, from the grade schools,
the lirst week; to high school pupils, the second;
to college students, the third.

Nature Talks

CITIZENS of Tacoma,
Washington, and of At-
lanta and Fulton County,
Georgia, can look forward to improved facilities
for recreation. In Tacoma $781,600 of a proposed

Looking Forward

nt‘f‘t'l IDE‘D 'I one

 

expenditure of $2,000,000 will go for improve-
ments on playgrounds and development of new
playground facilities; for bathing beach develop-
ments ; new tennis courts, baseball diamonds and
picnic areas; day camping facilities; a salt water

swimming pool. In the Georgia communities
$1,000,000 of a $40,000,000 bond issue has been
earmarked for city parks and county health and
community centers.

AT THE 32nd Annual
Conference of City Man-
agers held in Montreal
last June recreation was
included in the subjects discused by city managers
of cities from 20,000 to 50,000 population. Public
Management magazine for August states that it
appeared from this discussion that cities with the
best recreation programs were. those in which
school districts permit the use of school facilities
and personnel. The report also states that to keep
control of recreation activities under the city a
recreation department supplemented by a school
board contribution provides the best arrangement.

Schools and
Recreation

. . . EACH ear Tucson Ari-
Winter Visitors y ’

zona, is host city to many
winter visitors. To make
their stay more attractive the Recreation Depart-
ment and the Chamber of Commerce have set up
a club designed to entertain the city’s guests with
regularly scheduled parties and special events.

 

 

“WHAT can we do?” is
the problem of many a
hostess, club chairman. or
neighborhood get-together. The Recreation De-

partment of Martinsville, Virginia, helps with the
answers: Mimeographed bulletins, spec1al help

491

First Aid for Parties

 

492 WORLD AT PLA Y

with unusual problems, and leadership is provided
for groups numbering 50 or more people. Church
groups, civic clubs, parents, take advantage of this
offer of assistance. A record is kept of services.
In 1945, 15 different groups consulted the game
files, and 11 groups were given leadership for an
hour’s entertainment. Martinsville’s population
was given as 10,080 in the 1940 census.

One Man’s Testimony as to the Value of
Home Museums—“As I look back on my un-
broken years of business successes I feel that the
foundation for these was laid in that children’s
home museum. As I put a newly arrived exchange
on my shelf I first learned all about it, and I ar-
ranged the various specimens with relation to each
other. Somehow the work which I did on my own
museum helped me in developing habits that have
been priceless in the years of adult life.”

Plans for Park Development—J. A. Krug,
Secretary of the 'Interior, after a strenuous two-
week air trip to the principal cities of the area in
which Interior field activities are located, an-
nounced at his staff meeting that the development
of recreation facilities in national parks of the

Northwest has his full and vigorous support. He _

stated that he had designated Conrad L. Wirth, a
Park Service veteran who served as a Colonel in
the Army, to prepare plans for improving develop-
ment of the parks, particularly Mount Rainier and
Olympic Parks.

Happiness and the Problem Child—“Every
problem child is an unhappy child. If the teacher
can help him to be happier, she will lessen his
problems.”

This is the message from Lili E. Peller of City
College, writing for the National Committee for
Mental Hygiene and reported in the World-Tele-
gram, May 23, 1946.

Report on Fishing at Union Terrace, Allen-
town, Pennsylvania—“The Park Department
gets the fishing pond in condition for the opening
of the fishing season. The Lehigh C0unty Fish
and Game Protective Association stocked the pond.
Only children under I6 years of age may fish in
the pond. A policeman is on duty at all times when
fishing is permissible. It is a very interesting
sight to see the banks lined with boys and girls,

rod in hand, anxiously watching for their first
nibble.”

Cultural Surveys—Several cities, using the
suggestions compiled by a member of the staff of
the Association of Junior Leagues of America and
published under the title Arts and Our Town,
have recently completed extensive surveys of their
available cultural facilities. Two of them, Corpus
Christi, Texas and Vancouver, Canada, have pub-
lished the results of their investigations thus mak-
ing it possible for any citizen of the communities
to see at a glance what possibilities there are for
participation in the fields of music and art, drama
and dancing and crafts and where to go for these
activities.

Chicago Conference—The 12th Annual Chi—
cago Recreation Conference was held this year
at the Hotel Morrison on Saturday, November 23.
It was a one-day conference sponsored by the
Chicago Recreation Commission and 200 other
civic organizations.

Contest—The Crippled Child for September,
1946 announces approval by the NationaloAssocia-
tion of Secondary School Principals for the Michael
J. Dowling Memorial Award Contest. The con-
test is Open to art students in secondary schools.
The winning design will be used by the National
Society for Crippled Children and Adults in its
Easter Seal Campaign. For further information
write to John B. Carnell, National Society for
Crippled Children and Adults, Inc., 115 La Salle
Street, Chicago 3, Illinois, for the new Michael
Dowling folder.

Interest of Mayors in Recreation—At a re—
cent meeting of a large number of mayors
from a Middle West state there were several
problems of consuming interest—juvenile de—
linquency and what to do about it, taverns
admitting minors, enforcement of curfew

ordinances, providing better,recreation oppor—
tunities.

A Recreation School—August 11 to 25, 1946
were days set aside for the sixth annual Eastern
Cooperative Recreation School. Designed as a
training course for leaders the, school was en-
dorsed by groups concerned with recreation in
rural areas. During its two weeks of sessions
prospective leaders studied and put into practice
the principles of such forms of recreation as danc-
ing—folk, ballroom, singing games—dramatics,

1 games, arts and crafts, and music.

RECREATION

OFFICIAL
SHAPE - WEIGHT - BOUNCE

The International fame and acceptance of
WEAVER Softballs has been won by super
construction -— super service — super per-
formance and Real Economy.

WEAVER Official Grade Softballs are the
choice of leading schools, playgrounds,
recreation centers and industrial teams. They
are Steam Treated for toughness, adding extra
wear. The Kapok centers of quality long

 

libre and exclusive method of winding pre-
serves their shape and provides t0p perform-
ance under all playing conditions. Use,
recommend and demand WEAVER.

ORIGINAL PIONEERS

The WEAVER Scholastic Playballs and the

WIN TARK Rubber Covered, Cord Wound
Basketball, were the FIRST Balls of this

type introduced and successfully used.

WINTARK POLICY WINS FOR DEALERS—WRITE FOR lATEST CATALOG

WEAVER FEATURES

Kapok is STEAM TREATED
for toughness and extra wear.
Gum (Latexed) Winding, pro.-
vides rubber cushion between
cords. Durable rubber cover
with horsehide grain.

 

 
  

NTAR

SALES COMPANY   .-
AMERICA’S FOREMOSI ATHIETIC EQUIPMENT 5;,

 11....SHAMOKIN: Pff-‘f

.
.. .. 1, '-
.'.:°-"-' "I '
oa'o" "c'.‘

- n In... .0.
' ..I .-:.-.c,..

  
  
 

.-‘.‘-"?'.?E".

   

1

       

 

494 STATE RECREATION NEWS NOTES

Christmas Stories

ARE YOU LOOKING for special tales for the story-
telling hour now that Christmas is upon us?
Here are a few sources, some of which may be
new to you. All of them are tested.

In Christmas, by Alice Dalgliesh. Scribners,
New York.

“The Christmas Tree of Good St. Florentine"
“The Festival of St. Nicholas”
“Toinette and the Elves”

In The Long Christmas,-by Ruth Sawyer. Vik-
ing Press, New York.

“The Animal’s Christmas Tree”
“The Crib of B0 ’Bossu”

“The Gold of Bernadino”

“The Good Night”

In The Christmas Nightingale, by Eric P. Kelly.
Macmillan, New York.

“In Clean Hay”

The Man Who Owned the Stable, by Armand
L. Currie. John Knox Press, Richmond,
Virginia.

The Shepherd I/V ho Missed the Manger, by
Rufus M. Jones. Doubleday, Doran, New
York‘.

A Gift for Babusha, by Annie Kerr. The
\Vomans Press, New York.

 

_

Official Release

(Continued from page 464)

mittee on Recreation, an informal, unofficial com-
mittee of federal agencies to provide effective co-
ordination and expansion of federal permanent
peace recreation services to the states.

Recreation workers throughout the country will
be proud that Walter L. Scott has been chosen for
this important new post. Because he is one of their
own number, has had such long experience in the
work, because they know his wisdom and good
common sense and kindly, thoughtful spirit; as
well as because of the value of the undertaking
itself recreation workers will wish to do what they
can to help make his work suCcessful.

 

 

State Recreation
News Notes

AMES F. EVANS, Director of State Parks in
New York, succeeds Harold Lathrop, formerly
Director of State Parks in Minnesota, as president
of the National Conference of State Parks. Mr.
Lathrop is now a member of the staff of the Na-

tional Recreation Association giving service to
state governments in the western United States.

Other officers elected at the Conference’s annual
meeting held during a Pacific pilgrimage to 53
state parks in California and Oregon are Thomas
\V. Morse of Raleigh, North Carolina, first vice-
president; Frank Quinn, Austin, Texas, second
vice-president ; Harlean James, Washington, D.C.,
executive secretary; and C. F. Jacobson,. Wash—
ington, D. C., treasurer.

Term members of the board of governors are
Mr. Quinn; Ed Jameson, Fulton, Missouri; Lewis
G. Scoggin, Tallahassee, Florida; Russell B.

Tobey, Concord, New Hampshire; Herbert Maier,

San Francisco, California; C. G. Sauers, Chicago,
Illinois; P. V. Brown, Indianapolis, Indiana;
Charles De Turk, Wayne County, Michigan;  R.
Knowland, Oakland, California; Frederick Adams.
Omaha, Nebraska; C. L. Garrington, Madison,
\Nisconsin ; and T. W. Morse. Holdovers include
S. B. Beardman, Salem, Oregon; Mrs. Edmund
Ball, Muncie, Indiana; and J. F. Evans.

Life directors elected by the Conference are
Tom Wallace of Louisville, Kentucky; Horace M.
Albright of New York City; Howard Bloomer of
Detroit, Michigan; Laurie Cox of Syracuse, New
York; Mrs. Henry Frankel of Des Moines, Iowa;
Robert Kingery of Chicago, Illinois; Harold A.
Wagner of Akron, Ohio; Conrad Wirth of Wash-
ington, D. C.; William M. Hay of Nashville,
Tennessee; and Harold Lathrop of Minneapolis,
Minnesota.

During its first year of operation, the New York
State Youth Commission approved 208 projects,
of which 201 were recreation projects. Of the
. 781,861.89 expenditures on the recreation proj- '
ects, $272,463.33 will be returned to the communi-
ties from the State aid funds of the commission.

A study of the first 148 projects showed that 59
per cent of the projects are in towns under 5.000
and another 33 per cent are in municipalities be-
tween 5,000 and 25,000. N 0 previous program had
been in operation in 52 per cent of the municipali—
ties. Projects are year-round projects in 73 per
cent of the cases. i

H. R. Giles was appointed State Director of
Recreation in Kentucky on September 19 by the
Commissioner of Conservation. The appointment
was made on the recommendation of the State
recreation committee and with the approval of
Governor Willis. There is a two—year budget of
$18,000 for this new division of recreation.

RECREATION

M I M I I I
uuun'c
"4519qu

DECEMBER 1946

 

4t

 

They maid~ xiii! deliver the fines} peziurmme tinder a?! playing cenéiticns over

the laagast perm of time. Remembekm all Vuit built

hails are weatherpzeaf, waterpmef, wearpreaf.

J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

Chicago 6

I600 E. 25th Strong, to: Angela: II o 180 No. Week" Dtivo.

4‘35

496 ERNEST THOMPSON S E TON

BOWLING 0 N0 PIN-BOYS :

RECREATION CENTERS o SCHOOLS .
' INSTITUTIONS
CLUBS AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS

now can have BOWLING at a fraction
of the cost of regulation alleys.

Send for descriptive circular!

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORP. o

“4 East 32nd Street New York City .
OOOOOOOOOOOEOOOOO

Ernest Thompson Seton

N OCTOBER 23, 1946 Ernest Thompson Seton,

86 years of age, world authority on Indian

lore and wild life, died at his home in New Mexico.

In 1902 he had founded the Woodcraft League.

Many of the early playground and recreation lead-

ers worked closely with the Woodcraft League.

Mr. Seton was very active in the early days in the
work of the Boy Scouts of America.

Message to Youth Leaders

8 LEADERS of young people it 'shall be your
happy fortune to see and feel thing's which
books and instructors have tried to tell you. As
leaders you shall have a part in a great drama of
life and hear the symphony of youth.

You are standing in a path of destiny—you are
dealing with life at its most strategic point. As
good leaders you shall continue to provide myriads
of vital experiences which will contribute to full-
ness of life and effective living. As a leader you
.shall have the opportunity to make a great contri—'
bution to the lifelong spirit‘of youth; the spirit
which makes the individual look forward to each
day, each week, each year; the spirit which will
make him reach for a star, pick the first huckle-
berry, climb the mountain, have interest in life,
and courage to try the new.

Because you are helping young people find a
place in this dynamic, stimulating and challenging
world you should be a better person—a more

inspired leader. You are on an important mission.
I-lave faith in youth and lead them on!

—Pefr0nella Tacionis

Filmsfor Children

ONCERN FOR THE FILM FARE of children ha
C reached, of recent years, spring tide propor
tions. Starting with parents and teachers an
“spiritual pastors and masters” it has beaten upo
motion picture producers, motion picture dis
tributors, owners of local motion picture theaters
It has had many manifestations in many places
most recent of them a plan brought forth by th
motion picture industry.

This plan provides a children’s film library mad
up of 28 feature pictures approved for children 0
elementary school age by all reveiwing groups. Ne
prints of the films have been made and placed in
film exchanges across the country.

The list of pictures and their distributors fol-
lows:

Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (M-G-M)
Alice in Wonderland (Paramount)

Anne of Green Gables (RKO Radio)

Anne of Windy Poplars (RKO Radio)

The Barefoot Boy (Monogram)
- Blondie Brings Up Baby (Columbia)

Five Little Peppers and How They Grew (Columbia)
Five Little Peppers in Trouble (Columbia)

Green Pastures (Warner Bros.)
Jane Eyre (20th Century-Fox)

The Hoosier Schoolboy (Monogram)

The Human Comedy (M-G-M)

Knickerbocker Holiday (United Artists)

Little Miss Marker (Paramount)

Midsummer Night’s Dream (Warner Bros.)
The Mighty Treve (Universal)

Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch (Paramount)
Poor.Little Rich Girl (20th Century-Fox)

The Prince and the Pauper (Warner Bros.)
Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm (20th Century-Fox)
Sandy Gets Her Man (Universal);

Sis Hopkins (Republic)

Song of the Open Road (United Artists)
Three’s a Family (United Artists)

Two Thoroughbreds (RKO Radio)
The Underpup (Universal)

Young Buffalo Bill (Republic)
Young Tom Edison (M-G-M) \

These films are available. Whether they are 3
shown—as many are being shown on Saturday .
mornings—in any community will, of course, de- I
pend upon the local theater owner. The chances ‘
are that he will cooperate readily if the community

is clearly and obviously in favor of such a pro- »;
ccdure.

RECREATION

THE SPORT OF ONE WORLD

I N ONE SHAPE or anofher. made of one maferial

of anolherl you will find archery faclcle in use by
every nafion on fhe face of fhe earfh. Archery is

inof only fhe oldesf known spor'l'. If is also fhe mosf

nearly universal of sporfs.

The frue ‘l'oxophili‘l'e (a fancy word for archery
bug) considers +he rifle and fhe afom bomb new-
fangled devices which probably aren'f here fo sfay.
He will remind you fhaf: (I) archery has puf more
' meaf on fhe fable fhan all ofher weapons combined;
(2) archery is found in every counfry and among
every race and fribe; (which is more fhan can be
said for fhe six-shoo‘l'er or 'l'he afom bomb); (3) more
arrows have been shol’. even on fhe Norfh American
confinen’r. fhan shells. (Try walking fhrough fhe woods

somefime looking for shells insfead of arrowheads.)

Archery has a place—a s’rrong place—Lin your

program foday. Archery has fhe fundamenfal appeal.
DECEMBER 1946

 

Archery is for all ages. bofh sexesl for fhe healfhy
and infirm. +he robusf and +he recluse. Archery is a
proved builder of co-ordinafion. muscleI vision. per-
fecf posfure, and s’ready nerves. And. besf of all.

archery is frue recreafion.

You will find a Ben Pearson dealer near you. and
you will be as’ronished af fhe beaufy and inexpensive-
ness of fhe archery facltle he displays. Loolt him up
soon. And meanwhilel for help in forming an archery

club. archery classhor insfalling an archery range.

' wrife Ben Pearson. We mainfain an advisory servuce

especially for fhaf purpose.

 

498 RECREATION BY BOOKMOBILE

 

Many new titles on the
way; write today for lists!

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . .3150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson. . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
CLAY DIODELING, by R. R. Flore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Charles Carlson. . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES, byCharlotte H.Young 1.00
FIGURE DRAWING WITIIO UT A MODEL, by CliE Young 1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike . . . 1.00
WORKING IN LEATHER, by Margaret Ickis . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING, by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00
FUNDAMENTALS OF WOODWORKING,

by Harry C. Helfman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East Hill Street New York 3. N. Y.

Recreation by Bookmobile
(Continued from page 461)

a reader is not just a reader to the head librarian
and to other members of the staff who do not have
the privilege of actually making the day-by—day
trips on the bookmobile. When there is a special
request'to “send something on chicken raising,”
there comes quickly to mind a conversation with
the borrower and the joy and pride with which
she spoke of her chickens at the recreation pro-
gram. Many of the rural citizens who attended
the programs now visit the headquarters library
and talk of books that they would like to read. All
this helps in book selection at the time book orders
are worked out. When the final program was held

on the Court House Square honoring the Indian.

chief and princess, many of the bookmobile patrons
came into town and visited the library. This is the
human side of it.

Statistics, too, tell a story of values. The num-
ber of books .read from the bookmobile in 1946
has far surpassed all records in its entire history.
New points of distribution have been requested
and new readers gained. During the past sum-

mer, the daily circulation of books rose from 250
to 480. For the three months, June, July, and
August, the number of books read was almost 100
per cent gain over past years in which there was no
effort -put forth to integrate reading and other
kinds of recreation. A large part of bookmobile
patrons read informational books. Thus knowl-
edge has been increased in all the homes.

Another result has been the organization of a
community club with recreation, reading, and civic
improvement as objectives.

In addition, it is highly probable that the grand—
mother referred to in the beginning is not the only
older person whose heart was lifted to a high plane
of interest and pleasure in recreation and to a
better understanding of young people.

Certainly we know that our bookmobile rec-
reation program does pay high dividends in hap-
piness, in human relationships, and in mounting
circulation statistics. We are planning a larger
program for next summer.

Who Minds a Little Rain?

(Continued from page 480)

negligible. Preparation for the event was, roughly,

broken down into three sections: publicity, awards
(which included the free movie), and the solicita-
tion of prizes.

Program Details I

For the benefit of departments of recreation that
would like to initiate a Pet ’n Pup Parade in their
communities, a brief story of how Norwalk’s
parade was conceived and activated might be of 
value. It .would start with the Park Department,
which was considering a “flash” activity that would
in no way interrupt already organized recreations
and would, at the same time, bring the work of ‘
the Department graphically before the people of
the city. ,

The Recreation Director contacted the manager
of the local chain theater. The two decided upon
the activity, the date for its promotion and settled
the details of eligibility, which were cut down to
only two. No pet was to be over 30 inches high,
and no parader was to be over 14 years of age. A
double feature movie bill of the wild west type wasf
booked for May 4. The local Chamber of Commerce {a
gladly promised to defray the expense of the thea-
ter admission tickets, and two theater employees
were detailed to canvass all local stores for prizes
that were to be given to the winners of the
parade’s various divisions. Awards were to be
made at the time of the movie. i

RECREATION

    

THE CHAMPIONSHIP OKLAHOMA A s. M TEAM

a series of six, 16mm sound,
instructional films on the

FlllllllllllEll'l'lllS 0F BIISHE'I'BIIII.

running time approximately one hour

   
   

Calculated to improve individual and team perform-
ance on the basketball eourt, this film series skillfully
presents and explains every major aspect of .the game.
Under Coach Henry Iba’s guidance, the star “Aggie”
aggregration that emerged. this year with the national
basketball championship for the second successive
time, demonstrates the art of successful basketball play
' in fundamental terms. PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
BASKETBALL! was specifically designed as a coach’s

aid in the building of a winning team. It, too, may be The same Oklahoma A & M basketball squad that
used effectively for introducing to the sports enthusiast earned nation-wide repute for the Past two years;

the finer oints of this fast thrillinm ame. [paced by the famous seven-foot all-America center,
P i b g Bob Kurland, demonstrates the caliber of play that

. Arranged for the spells victory.
convenience of
coaehes in six indi-
vidual though inte-
grated films, the
series demonstrates:
individual offense,
individual defense,

team styles of play,

.Iba’s 21 famous 0£- AMERICA’S MOST
fensive plays diag-

d d .  POPULAR GAME,
nose , strategy an " ' .
drills. TRANSLATED ‘l t 3
INTO FUNDAMENTALS  

'Narrafed by
Blll. SLATER

TllE EXCITING
ACTION OF

     

Slow motion, close-ups, and unique eamera angles are used,
with plays analyzed. and interpreted by narration. Superior

. photography lends sharpness of detail to fast moving action. Purchase price or the entire series: $150
! lO% discount with advance payment of $l5, if ordered by December l5th, l9“)
AN ASSOCIATION FILMS PRODUCTION payment to be refunded if not sarisned.
Produced and Directed by ' o o o
EDMUND DORFMANN 'I’o ensure early delivery, at lower 6559: Plate Your
.President, American Institute of Motion Pictures advance order with our New York oHice NOW!

 
 

in:

 

.: z ’-I ’ “1.... - I‘A’”  ex

- ‘ASSOCI‘agQ‘I /N FILMS
 (Y. M c A M TION CTURE BUREAU)
347 MAOISOH AVE. NEW rOIIII I: o 19 30. in SA!!! 51.. (mono a an rum: sr.. SAN rItAHascO 2 o II'OO nmrrsomve mu“

   

1.

   

DECEMBER 1946 499

500 DRAFT-AGE FUN IN THE POSTWAR WORLD

Parade application blanks were made available
by the theater and their distribution and collection
was done by the recreation director. He also pre-
pared write-ups that were sent to all county news-
’ papers and to two newsreel companies and two
national magazines on the off-chance (no chance
at all, it later appeared) that national coverage
would be given the event.

The local veterinarian was assigned the job of
chief judge, and the commander of the "city-gar—
risoned National Guard Company was asked to act
as parade master. The high school band “couldn’t
make it—sorry!” and so the powerful public ad-
dress system of the Veterans of Foreign Wars was
attached to a record player. The set with its 35
watts of power covered the entire downtown area.

The route of march extended from the high
school to the recreation center, a distance of some
four blocks. It used a heavily traveled transcon-
tinental highway, and the police department was
called out in force to assure that no injuries would
result from the combination of skidding cars and
.80 pound pets leading 60 pound paraders.

Evaluation

In the final evaluation Norwalk’s Pet ’n Pup
Parade was counted successful because it was new
to the city and a novelty, with awards to all par-
ticipants (ribbons and movie 'tickets to all, and
prizes to winners), seldom is counted a failure.
It was not cancelled because of the weather, any
cancellation often having a bad after-effect upon
the subsequent running of any activity.. It used,
as its line of march, the main street of the city
where all could best see it. It was heartily backed
by all merchants, organizations and individuals
who were approached in regard to its support.

A Pet ’n Pup Parade is fun, and it will be an
annual affair in N orwalk—by popular demand.

Draft-Age Fun in the Postwar World
(Continued from page 476)

teams, dancing lessons are some of the other ac-
tivities, with something doing almost any night the
center isn’t scheduled for the high school crowd
or older group. \Vednesday evening, originally
chosen as official YAC night at the center with an
orchestra dance as the chief drawing card, soon
shared honors with Friday night when during the
summer months, the center was obtained through

a swap with the high school kids in exchange for
a mid—week day scheduled for the YAC’s.

w

   
   
  
  
  
  

The YAC has its own bulletin put out each tw
weeks to let everyone know what’s doing. Th
YAC has been responsible for air conditioning th
ballroom and has cooperated with emergency fun
drives of the city. It has scheduled general busi
ness meetings every three months and encourage
dress up parties—formals and a few date affairs
But to most of the functions members come on an
undated basis. I

Committees carrry on all the work of these func-
tions to keep things running smoothly. When
members join, they indicate on their application
cards the things in which they would like to par-
ticipate. There are hostess and host committees,
greeters, guest monitors, membership committees,
cloakroom attendants, cashiers, stampers, decora-
tion committees, all cheerfully volunteering about
an hour’s work during the evening. Those who
complete three work units are entitled to special
membership privileges such. as wearing the club’s
official pin (the design for which was chosen from
among members’ entries in an emblem contest)
and getting preference at limited attendance

functions.

The building, taken over directly from_the USO,
is well fitted for all types of activity. Staff mem—
bers including a YAC adviser (the former tem-
porary president) work hand in hand with the-
community center director, in seeing that things
run smoothly. The entire program and building
are under the Board of Education’s Division of
Recreation. In the building there is a lounge with
chairs for relaxing, a piano, radio and plenty of
magazines and newspapers to read. There’s a
library stacked with books, a game room with
ping-pong, billiards, and tables for the numerous
card games one might want to play. There’s an
inexpensive snack bar. There’s a music room with
records to listen to, an art corner, and handcraft' ’
section. There are offices to house the club’s files a
and records and there are meeting rooms.

And everyone has fun—and is meeting and mak-
ing new friends! Madison’s young people are sold
on the idea. They’ve forgotten the stiff and formal,
cliquish and unfriendly Madison of prewar days.
Strangers in town no longer have to worry about
getting acquainted. Office people don’t feel left §
out of the social life offered by the University—
they’ve got their own. And, spurred on by this
wide use of the temporary community center which
has demonstrated conclusively the great need for
it, city civic leaders are pushing the proposed Me-
morial Building—the municipal auditorium and

RECREATION

MUSIC FOR MILLIONS 501

 

SPORTING GOODS co.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities

 

(A Wilson Ev“ Co.. Inc. subsidiary) ' . ‘
tab “'50“
. on“ '

IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

community center of the future. When that day
arrives, as everyone is sure it will, YAC members
will know that they played their part in convincing
the city of its need.

Music for Millions

(Continued 'from page 478)

People on the subway caught the enthusiasm of
these young adventurers and soon were taken into
their confidence. At the rehearsal hall, a young
violinist ushered the group into a back row of
seats. The orchestra began to tune up. The chil-
dren’s tension rose. Their sketch pads were open,
their pencils poised for creation.

As the music progressed the scratchings became
more intense. Now and then the conductor called
out instructions above the roar of triple fortissi-
mos. Occasionally he stopped the players long
enough to answer a question he saw forming on a
child’s lips. You can be sure these children will
never forget the music they heard with their ears
and their minds and their imaginations at this
Sunday morning rehearsal. No formal music
course in the world could compare with this ex-

DECEMBER 1946

perience in dynamic listening.

Back at their settlements, days of discussion fol-
lowed this rehearsal. Mr. Dixon’s hints about
composers and compositions were followed up with
research in music libraries. Along with the paint-
ing of murals came some creative writing—the
story about the Beethoven Fifth included with the
Program Notes, for example.

Two boys who had an edge on all the rest were
18-year-old heroes-to-be from Madison House.
Their home-front contribution, made two days
before they shipped out to camp, was the Bach
Arioso which they did in pastels. A very poetic
and creative job it was, with yellow sunlight on a
hillside where a free man stood with arms stretched
out to the heavens.

The mural for Lalo’s Symphony Espagnole was
drawn in three panels showing the religious life of
the Spanish nuns, the aesthetic life of the Spanish
dancer, and the challenge of a bloody sport—the

bull ring. .
Not only was the concert a great succes—wnh
an overflow audience milling around the Play-

house on the night of the performance, but two

502 CHRISTMAS CAROLS

I” EVERYFIb'w OFS’Pokl; .

In every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-

, ball and Soflball- in Universities,
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial ReCrealion.
MocGregor-Goldsmiih Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
marl: of quality and unvarying
performance.

 mm rm 1W- 

”‘HCTNNA‘I'I ,‘4. OHIO. U. S. A

 

months after the concert was over, there was still
work to do! The secretary of the National Feder—
ation of Settlements invited the Committee of the
Lower East Side Program Workers to exhibit the
murals which had been painted for the concert.
Here was another job, another angle to this com-
munity affair.

Again the machinery was set up. A flyer was
mimeographed—this time by Christadora House
personnel. For it was here the exhibit took place.
Posters, programs, news releases, tickets, murals—
all were on public display, not only for Lower
East Siders but for neighbors all over New. York
and visitors from other cities as well.

Was ever a community project more exciting,
more inclusive, and richer in potential activity?
For four months—from March through June—Ta
neighborhood was kept busy painting, printing,
selling! The net result was a wonderful spring
festival of music and art.

Spring need not be the only time for putting on
a “Show” of this kind. One could start making
plans with the opening of the season in the fall,

Christmas Carols

I pray you, sirs, both more and less

Sing these carols in Christe’mas.
—John Awdlay, 1430

AROLS ARE BECOMING increasingly popular here
C in America. Great stores of little known folk

carols and Christmas songs have been unearthed
because of this revived interest in carols.

The carols arose with the ballad in the I 5th
century because the people wanted something less
severe than the old Latin hymns, something more
vivacious. A flood of carols swept the countries of
France, Italy, and England. The Renaissance was
in full swing. Printed books became everyday
articles, and many carols found their way into
print. Then in the 17th century came the period
of Puritanism which blacked out all the gaiety and

bubbling fun of carol singing. Carol singing be- '

came a thing of the past except in some private
homes or in some counties of England. Indeed the
very meaning of the word “carol” came to be for—
gotten. The‘ carol lived underground preserved
only in folk songs or in people’s memories.

Not till 1898 when Cecil Sharp began collect-
ing folk songs did people realize the wealth and
beauty of the early Christmas carols. English-
speaking people are once more taking back to
themselves these delightful, pure, truthful and clean
bits of poetry and music unearthed for them by
the research of modern scholars. The carol is
established once more in the life and affection of
the people. From Program Service, Iowa State
College.

have four good working months, and end up with
the performance during the Christmas holidays.

Two other very successful Music for Millions
concerts, by the way, were given in South Brook-
lyn and East Harlem. We made ‘one error on our
tickets. We did not announce that seats would
not be held after a certain time—8 :20, let us say.
And we found that because 5 cents is a small risk
people buy the tickets though not always sure of
coming. As a result, many 5 cent seats remained
empty while on the streets were people who could
not get in because the house had been sold out.
We were able to correct this mistake after the first
number was played and we filled the empties with
the overflow but in the meantime pe0ple missed a
part of the concert. It is better, we found through
this method of trial and error, to charge nothing at
all or 25 cents.

RECREATION

\

RECREATIONAL AND MUSICAL THERAPY 503

I"Better Members of the.Communi’ry"

(Continued from page 486)

Vicious dogs will not be permitted in the class.
Bitches in season should not be brought to the
class.
‘, Dogs must be properly exercised before they are
brought indoors or into the outdoor ring.
' In case a dog has not been properly exercised
lbefore coming into the class, the handler is respon—
isible for caring for his dog.
: Dogs should be eight months old and prefer—
ably not over four years. of age to be in the class.
I The fee for the class is $3 for 12 lessons.* The
rentire fee must be paid at the time of registration.
The following equipment is required and may
lbe purchased through the recreation department:
' I long leash
I I choke chain
1

  
   
    
     
     
   
   
   
   
     
       
     

  

DIAMDND
SUPER RINGER

 
 

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe.

I training leash -
I dumb-bell

“To cover the cost to the recreation department of equipment.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Ofiicial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH. “INN.

 

' Recreational and Musical Therapy
(Continued from page 481)

Year-Round Program
I Throughout the summer maximum use is made
of the outdoor recreation center where shufHeboard
courts, volley ball, basketball, badminton, and
bowling-on—the-green' can be enjoyed by the large
'group which can be taken on the grounds. For

  

body. Early in November a large number of gifts

those whose physical or mental condition does not
permit such physical activity, checkers, puzzles,
and similar games are presented. Facilities have
been provided for roasting frankfurters, preparing
coffee and other appetizing foods, and frequently
groups remain over the noon hour for luncheon.
‘ On occasions picnics are held in some remote part
of the grounds and are followed by lively competi-
tion in the several outdoor games entered upon.
During the winter months a Tom Thumb piano
is taken to those wards where no other piano is
available. Groups of patients gather about and are
led in programs of singing, folk dancing, or cal-
isthenics to rhythmic music. The recreation cen-
ter indoors is available throughout the year for
morning classes—one for men who show active
interest in volley ball, ping-pong and shuffleboard,
and one for women who sing, toss rings, and re-
hearse programs and plays to be given before

larger groups at Halloween, Thanksgiving, Wash-

ington’s Birthday and other occasions.
The Christmas party is anticipated by every-

DECEMBER 1946

are bought for the patients. These are neatly
wrapped by members of the classes and at the
Christmas party Santa Claus presents each pa-
tient present with a gift. Those too ill to attend
receive a present in their wards. The recreation
center and the chapel are appropriately decorated
with pine boughs, flowers, candles and lights which
create a festive atmosphere. There is always an
impressive sacred pageant which follows the read-
ing of the Scriptural account of Christ’s birth by
invited clergymen who usually tell one of the old
Christmas stories. These occasions are followed
by a more or less formal tea with a string quartet
playing Christmas music while everyone is served
sandwiches, cakes, candy, and chocolate. Lady
members of the Board of Managers and the wives
of the medical staff act as hostesses. Similar types
of appropriate programs are arranged for Easter.
Washington’s Birthday and other times.
Approximately one night each week a concert
of some type is provided. We try to arrange a
variety of entertainment and have included, for

504 ALL-co UNTY HOBBY SHOW

example, a Russian group whose Balalaika orches-
tra presented a program of songs and colorful
dances in national costume. An Italian group in
brilliant dress gave pleasing entertainments of
songs and dances.' Many events of this kind are
sponsored by the National Folk Festival Associa-
tion. One night each month square or folk danc~
ing is taught by a professional. More recently we
have purchased four autoharps and several patients
have had the Opportunity of learning to play them
and have become deeply absorbed, continuing with-
out interruption for long periods.

Music from a central point is transmitted
through loud speakers to practically every ward
within the institution. Certain programs are taken
from the radio and a large library of records of
classical and semi-classical music provides an hour
of entertainment to bed cases and other non-am-
bulatory patients twice daily.

The value of supervised recreation and music as
therapeutic agents has been accepted and incor-
porated in treatment programs of all well-estab-
lished hospitals for the mentally ill. In the ban-
dling of large groups it is extremely difhcult to
prescribe for the individual patient but wherever
possible there is a selection of recreation or type

of music to fit the moods and emotional states of

the individual.

All-County Hobby Show

(Continued from page 489)

Promotion

In order to spread the word about the show as
widely as possible several forms of publicity were
used.

All the newspapers in the county ranstories an—
nouncing the coming of the event. Committee
members from each community posted mimeo-
graphed announcements in such public places as
post offices, banks and the like. The Recreation
Department sent announcements through its spe-
cial industrial bulletin service to the 22 large plants
in the area. Letters of announcement were sent to
all civic and similar groups. Through the excellent
cooperation of the local broadcasting station a pub-
licity campaign by radio was planned. This in-
cluded special 15-minute talks twice a week and
discussions of their hobbies by people who had
entered outstanding exhibits. The county and city
superintendent of schools gave permission for
school teachers to display posters in their schools
and to distribute entry blanks through their
students.

The county board gave their permission for the.
use of the Exposition Building gratis. Ordinarily
rent of this hall would have been $200 but the'
board felt that the educational value of the show

justified the waiving of this charge.
A small admission fee—Io and 25 cents—took

care of such incidental expenses as printing tickets
and redecorating the booths. This year we have
an item in the recreation budget for the hobby
show—because already we have entry blanks for

exhibits to be shown in the spring of 1947. For
that first show was so successful from all points of

view that we hope to make it an annual affair.

Some Young ‘Music Lovers
( C ontiimed from page 479)

Franklin—“It makes me practice my music les-
sons more.” ' ‘

Melvin Khachigian, I2, who is already compos-
ing airs—“The Junior Unit of the Creative Arts
Fellowship means a pathway to civic and social
life and to creative beauty.”

Manuel Costa, I 3-—“I have made new friends.
It. has made me use my brains. And I am learning
to know Visalia streets better and that is good for
a fellow who lives far out in the country.”

The president of the Unit—“It has given me
a deeper knowledge of music. The topics we speak
on at each meeting help in securing this knowledge
of music, so that when talking to older people now
or in later years, there will not be a feeling of
frustration or embarassment because you have not
heard about some such composer or some era of
music in our history. '

“This knowledge has made me think of the
music of the other countries—the French, Spanish,
Russian, Chinese, and in our own country, the
Negroes and Indians. All of them speak a differ-
ent language. But in the language of music, they
all say the same thing.

“So if all the war-torn countries would just stop
and listen and think about the other fellow, then
maybe we could become a world-wide fellowship.”

Another result has been the discovery of definite
talent, of possible artists-in-the-making. A life?
member, noting outstanding ability by two II-f
year-old girls, a violinist and a cellist, and a 13--
year-old accompanist, urged them to form a trio.
Fortunately they were under the same instructor
and he consented to put them into trio production.
One year later they were in demand on programs k
of civic and service organizations. 

RECREATION

PROGRAM FOR A CITY 505

t . . . . .
California mu51c educators this year inaugurated

. sectional Music Festivals for bands, orchestras,
_ and vocal groups from Junior High Schools, High
i Schools, and Junior Colleges. At the Central Val-

ley Festival (four counties), the trio was judged

outstanding in interpretation, technique, phrasing,
I and singing quality. They were rated superior by
two of the, judges and superior plus by one. He
invited them to be members of the Music Summer
Camp conducted on the college campus for six
weeks with private and ensemble instruction along
with sports. Their parents decided they-were too
young.

One of the judges invited them to participate in
the Northern California Festival three weeks later
at San Jose, with entrants from coast and central
schools. In this greater Festival there were two

judges. One rated our trio excellent. The other

pronounced them superior.

Visalia’s Creative Arts Fellowship is gratified
with this latest experiment. Don’t you want to try
out our plan? It’s a lot of fun!

Program for a. City

(Continued from page 488)

tivities. These visiting programs began with the
j setting up of the Industrial Recreation Committee.
l The Director of Recreation suggested to this group
i the possibility of sponsoring a war correspondents’
1 lecture, series. The idea caught fire by magic and
the first year such noted commentators and re-
porters as Robert St. John, Louis Fischer, Merrill
“Red” Mueller, Kumar Goshel and Larry Allen
I spoke in Kingsport to packed houses. In fact, so
eager were the citizens to have this type of cultural
program that enough tickets were sold the first
year to bring a fifth speaker instead of the original
four-speaker program.

The second year Frank “Bring ’Em Back Alive”
Buck gave a matinee talk for children as well as
an evening performance. In addition, Margaret
Bourke-\Nhite, Dr. Will Durant, Vincent Sheean
and Maurice Hindus appeared on the series. A
ticket for the five lectures cost but $3. This year
H. R. Knickerbocker and Walter Duranty will
debate and Stuart Chase, Dorothy Crawford and
Eve Curie will speak. The fifth number in the
1946-47 series will be the Rotary Institute of In-
ternational Understanding.

One interesting feature contributing to the suc-
cess of the lecture programs has been the informal
luncheon or dinner given in honor of the guest

DECEMBER 1946

 

First Name in Trampolining
Creates Another "First"

The I947 ‘

Slut/0&1 ,
TRAMPOLINE

LIGHTER—STURDIER—EASY TO MOVE

Folds Compact—Foolproof in a Jiffy
FOR INDOOR—OUTDOOR USE

. Almost a decade ago Nissan—the ORIGINAL—
Trampoline introduced the bounding. body-building
sport of Trampolining.

O .Educators—Military trainers have found its value
in actual use.

Write for Free Literature

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE
zoo A AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA

 

——"—_—___—:=l.—_=
speakers. To such affairs all members of the In-
dustrial Recreation Committee are invited. Thus
the sponsoring group is able to get a closer view
and more direct picture of the speakers’ person-
alities off-stage. This bit of closer contact with
well known authors, lecturers and correspondents
has served as a reward for the committee members.

In addition to the lecture series, stage produc-
tions are booked. The Clare Tree Major plays,
which were formerly held at the local high school,
are now brought to the Civic Auditorium and
grammar school children are given free bus rides
and admissions to the productions. As a result.
I,4oo-I,600 children are given the chance to see
story book friends on the stage. This year three
plays, Hans Brinker, Under the Lilacs and The
Secret Garden are scheduled.

Continuing the service to children and in an
attempt to create art appreciation, an exhibit of
reproductions of some of the world’s most famous
paintings by old and modern artists is shown
every year in March. The money taken tn at this
exhibit, from both parents and children, is used n-

506 FEE-KINDERGARTEN PLA YGROUNDS *

buy pictures for the different school rooms through-
out the city. The teachers are given pamphlets and
historical data two or three weeks before the ex-
hibit so they can prepare the children properly
for the exhibition. In addition to this study, a
person well trained in art appreciation is em-
ployed by the City Recreation Department to guide
children and adults through the exhibit with a
short lecture on the outstanding pictures and
paintings.

Kingsport has a very active camera club, so the
Popular Photography Traveling Salon is ex-
hibited each year in the club rooms at the Civic
Auditorium. Photographic prints by amateur
photographers from all over the nation are put on
display free of charge.

Book Week is always observed by a display or
project in the lounge of the Civic Auditorium.
The public library and civic clubs usually select
some country or some current topic for display.

Russia and world travel have been the themes for
two Book Week exhibits.

All these cultural and social activities have be-
come so popular with the citizens that their oc-
casional attendance in the first year has led to a
year-round program of participation in all types
of recreation. The interest promises no let down,
for a larger memorial .building is now in the proc-
ess of planning and organization.

Pre-Kindergarten
Playgrounds

HE RECREATION DEPARTMENT of Manitowoc,

Wisconsin, sponsored its first pre-kindergarten
playgrounds in 1946. These proved to be so satis-
factory that the parents in one particular area paid
for the extension of the program out of their own
pocketbooks. The program was started as an ex-
periment to see if parents would bring or send
their youngsters in large enough numbers to war-
rant the cost of conducting such playgrounds in
addition to the eight regular grounds already being
conducted in this city of a little over 25,000 people.

At the request of the Director of Recreation the
Recreation Board, which has cooperated 100 per
cent in new ideas, consented to try this one. The
main reason for the experiment was that all city

, wallpaper was used for paper-cutting projects an

play areas are hard surfaced playgrounds an
therefore not an ideal place for two-to-five-year
olds to play. Permission was obtained from th
Superintendent of Parks to fence (with sno
fence) an area of about 75’x 150’ to keep th
small fry from running away. Without the fenc
it was probable that the director would spend mos
of her time looking for Johnny or Mary!

     
    
 

Two well-trained kindergarten teachers wer
hired to take over the playgrounds, because it wa
felt that they would be most successful in handlin
the problems we knew we were going to have.

The type of equipment used was like th
of the everyday kindergarten. Sandboxes wit
canvas tops were built by our maintenance me
There were benches for the youngsters to sit o
and game boards for drawing and coloring. Ol

scissors work and modelling clay, blocks, colorin
books, gave the youngsters entertainment and in
struction out~of—doors in the sunshine. The direct
ors conducted a story period, singing games, an
a rest period for the children. Once a week ou
storyteller visited'these playgrounds and told hi
tall fairy tales.

The experiment was very successful. Next sum
mer Manitowoc hopes to have more areas of thi
type—A. f. Sahara, Recreation Director, Mani
towoc, Wisconsin.

The Best Companions

(Continued from page 471)

ple. The prices on these publications vary widel
as does their subject matter. ‘Some of them ar
“classics,” others are books of the day.

There are book exhibits or book fairs—some
times including films to stimulate the reading in
terest—which bring the look and feel of good book
to boys and girls who may not have the money t
build their own libraries. After one such exhibi .
held at a public -. library, the librarian receive
2,000 requests for the titles shown. She had 0
her shelves enough copies to fill only a small par
of those requests. But, so great was the demand
the library’s budget was stretched to provide addi
tional copies to help meet it.

RECREATIO

COLUMBUS PLANS FOR RADIO 507

A new venture which bids fair to add fuel to
this beneiicent flame is being sponsored by the
Boys’ Clubs of America. The staff of that organi-
zation felt that a great, many boys have little
chance to know reading as fun. They read in
schools where books are chores to be gotten
through “or else,” or in libraries which are some-
times not geared to readers of their age. So Boys’
Clubs of America has instituted this year the An-
nual Juvenile Book Awards.

There will be five awards each year, given to the
five authors whose books are judged most popular
by boys in Boys’ Clubs all over the country. The
age range is from II up. Any Boys’ Club director
or librarian can participate in the plan provided
he can get 20 boys to read the books. Each boy
taking part will register his,reaction in two ways.
He will check for each book he reads one of three
statements—“I liked it very much,” “I liked it a

little,” “I did not like it at all,” and he will name .

some other books he liked as well or better. The
awards will be made on the basis of a tabulation
of these individual rating sheets.

These are some of the signs of promise. As
more and more adults realize the need, there will
be other ways devised so that young adults-to-be
may come to man’s estate hand in hand with the
best companions.

Columbus Plans for Radio

(Continued from page 463)

Saturday mornings. This time the promotion plan
was a sound one, cooperated in by the Public
Library, the Junior League, the bookstores and
all the playgrounds. The result was most satis-
factory. Every Thursday afternoon a story hour
was held in the Library. At that time the young-
sters listened to the story of the book they would
hear over the radio the following Saturday. Each
week a playground was designated to be guest at
_ the story hour and members of the Junior. League
took the children in cars to the Library. Each
, child was given a piece of paper and pencil and
told to write out his idea of the high point of the
story. The best paper was read by its author over
the radio the following Saturday and his name
and the name of his playground were published in
the press. The newspapers carried, too, a news
story prior to each story hour. Station WDAK

DECEMBER 1946

IIA v: you saw fOR Til/5 IRE! 80cm”?

   

JUST OFF THE PRESS—this impor—
tant booklet, chuck full of valuable
facts on getting your High School
Boxing Progrom underway is yours
FREE for the osking. Written by
John Walsh, it clears up numerous
misconceptions about boxing—espe—
cially valuable to newc0mers in the
program.

NATlONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT co.

365 No. Marquette
FOND DU LAC, WIS.

Makers of NATIONAL Gym Mats,
Boxing Rings, and kindred
equipment

 

 

printed bookmarks announcing the series and the
Library made available all the books transcribed.

Developments

This series, however, is only a part of the plan
for community radio. WRBL, as a supplement to
its public service programs, broadcast for the
Social Planning Council a transcription series, The
Red Feather M an. The series consisted of drama-
tized episodes covering all phases of social work,
with local agency announcements at the end of

each program.

The radio stations have made other important
contributions. The equipment necessary for Work-
shop preparation and future productions, for ex-
ample, had somehow to be provided. VVRBL gen-
erously made available in their building a separate
studio with its control room, recording and sound
effects equipment, and reference library. A course
in the technical aspects of radio has been offered
by the chief engineer of that station.

The Council was fortunate in securing the ser-
vices of a professional radio person as executive
director of the Radio Workshop. She trains vol-
unteer actors and actresses, announcers, writers,
sound effects operators, and directors from those
in the community who recognize the need for the
work and the urge to be a part of it; and who are
willing to offer their time and interest. On July 6
a two—week period for general auditions was begun.
The response was more than encouraging, the
available talent and spirit heartening. Monthly
auditions will keep this opportunity open for ap-
plicants. Rehearsal groups are at work and will

make recordings for study. Later it is hoped that
from a contest among amateur writers several mil

508 SMALL TOWN TO THE CITY "

gamma \ «awn-.mwo .M... ..

 PRBTEBTYOURHUMHREM
' A TUBERCULOSIS 
.l i  I ' ‘ I

ha:
.. t
.. ,- {:7 i

g. 2

i

[BU v , , m.

 

be found whose scripts answer the primary pur-
pose. That purpose, expressed in the over—all title
“As I See the Need,” is an explanation of the aid

offered by the local agencies, the aid which, un- \

fortunately, is many times unknown to those in the
community whom the agencies could serve.

The Community Radio Workshop has entered
this project in full enthusiasm. With the con-
tinued interest and support that Columbusites have
shown, this endeavor can only end in success.

Small Town to the City

(Continued from page 490)

People know where to iind them. Inexpensive
band shells at those locations would add tremend-
ously to the value of the music, and there is no
reason to delay.

Anyone who ever lived in a small town knows
what a few persons who take the time to teach
skills, music or dramatics can add to local excite-
ment and pleasure.

A children’s theater carries the same idea to the
big cities, and Kansas City’s Recreation Depart-
ment is looking ahead to a children’s theater that
will be one of the big things of this city;

The interest in games is as great as'the number
of people who have the opportunity to learn. This
summer Kansas City is offering regular training
in tennis and archery that occupies two full-time

teachers and some 20 volunteers. A good start.
The following for any good game can be increased
many times over. Just give people the chance to
learn in groups.

wé have heard a lot of praise of the Swope park
pool and our scattered wading pools. Kansas City
has four swimming pools. To equal the national
recommendation it should have ten. And even that
hardly comes up to the convenience of the small
town pool or swimming hole.

The modern wading pool is a spray where the
water runs out almost as fast as it falls. Ask any
child which he prefers, spray or stagnant wading
pool? We have I3 wading pools and should have
60 sprays, one for every neighborhood. ,If you
have seen the crowds around a street Hushing crew

you can guess what neighborhood sprays would

mean to children.

. . . and the Year Around

All this is only an outline for summer pleasure.
But the biggest thing in the recreation program is
a series of year-round neighborhood centers —
gymnasium, game rooms, studio, shop and all that
go with them. More of that when cooler weather
comes.

In dollars and cents, to complete recreation for
the whole population will be expensive. It is ex-

pensive only because there are a lot of people in a .

city. No progressive small town used to commu-
nity pleasures would think such an obvious bid to
good living extravagant.

Kansas City can combine the advantages of a big
city with the cengeniality and easy recreation of a
small town. It can be a city of good living. In
the hearts of the people enjoyment of life is the
measure of a great city. And the people will be
served.

Films for Recreation

(Continued from page 487)

designed primarily to be shown to city councils,
school boards, park boards, service, fraternal and
veterans organizations, and the like.

The films are being distributed by offices of the ' _
Y.M.C.A. Motidn Picture Bureau in New York -'

City, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco. Rental
fees are set at $1.50 for Playtown, U .S .A., $1 for
$1,000 for Recreation, $2 for the two used to—
gether on a single program. The exhibitor as-
sumes all transportation charges.

RECREATION

 

 Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of 2
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

.' he American City, October 1946

Federal Aid Now Availalble for Beach Development
and Prevention of Shore Erosion, Stephen G.
Thompson ‘

Milwaukee Uses Loader to Clean Its Beaches

The Human Problem of Urban Dispersal, Lewis
Mumford

"arks and Recreation, September-October 1946

History of Rental Golf Carts from a Municipal
Aspect, Stuart L. Klingelsmith

The Maintenance Mart

oys’ Club Service, October 1946
Plexiglass Methods, Hal C. Stephens
How a Stamp Clu-b Grew, Angela Howlett

Simple Games with Balls and Other Special Appa-
ratus, Edward W. Pastore

Recommended One-Act Plays for Boys’ Clu'bs

Facilities and Equipment Required for .Operation of
Group Club Program, S. T. Ernenweln

ational Parent-Teacher, November 1946
What Toys Are Best? Christine Heinig

ygeia, November 1946 ‘
Work, Play and Sleep, Mark M. Schapiro

ighroad, November 1946
Boys and Girls Together, Helen and Larry Eisenberg

he Research Quarterly, October 1946

The Relationship of Recreational Participation to
Industrial Efficiency, C. Edwin Creed

he Ohio High School Athlete, September-October 1946

Interscholastic Athletics—Education or Commercial
Amusement? Howard G. Danford

1 Recreation Faces the Future—or “What Is Cooking”
1n Recreation, James E. Rogers

9

-' Parents’ Magazine, November 1946

Every Home Needs a Workshop, Martha P. Lincoln
I and Katharine Torrey

.Magazine Digest, November 1946
Baseball Democracy for German Youth

he Lion, October 1946
Pet and Doll Parade

t ' PAMPHLETS

lAtlanta’s Park and Recreation Department Fall and Win-
' ter Activities Program

. Park and Recreation Department, 601 City Hall,
Atlanta, Georgia

.A Study and Recommendation for the Recreational De-
velopment of the Patapsco River Valley Parkway

Prepared by the Technical Committee of the Patapscp
E. River Valley Commission, Johns Hepkms Uni-
' versi-ty, Baltimore 18, Maryland

. DECEMBER 1946
I

    
 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 509

    
  
  
       

First Choice

for
fret-y Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods

H '  o o
i. ~  Dlstrlbutors

vii

{ti-h ' m ' »
mg I; mat
  1w: runs-r IN" MI Inna '

l
qaantg
MAHUIAC‘IUIING COHIANV I S'-

 

FE  ’3 MO.

 

 

Program Highlights
(Continued from page 473)

“Speakers, whose interests in and knowledge of
community planning are well known, contributed
much to the thinking of the council during 1945.

“By far the most important event on the calcu-
dar of the community recreation clubs is that of the
community picnic sponsored by the Central Coun-
cil of Playground Clubs. Formerly an occasion
principally designed to interest the various clubs
in the installation of all council and club oflicers,
it has been broadened to include a program of
interpretation of recreation to many Austin peo-
ple. The peak attendance at this affair was reached

in 1944 when 250 people attended. In 1945, due to
many difficulties at the time, the attendance was

168.

“During 1945, the women’s activities hit a peak.
Their increased attendance and interest in the
various activities of the club reveal the impor-
tance of the adult program. One of the most suc-
cessful events planned by the women’s division
was a family banquet held in May which was at-

tended by 125."

 

Wow juai/aélé 

. PHHCEEDINGS

of the

k ANNUAL CONVENTION

ST. LOUIS, MO., APRIL, 1946

American Association for Health, Physical

Education and Recreation

:
!
l
.
Condensations of division meetings, workshops, and
general assembly addresses on health, physical

education, and recreation.

Price $1.00

Order from the Association Office

1201 SIXTEENTH STREET, NW, WASHINGTON 6, D. C. 

L__—_____‘_'____Jw

510 J __ - “ RECREATION

 

M Living in Our Communities

“(Civics for Young Children), by Edward Krug and I.
’ James Quillen. Scott Foresman and Company, 623
South Wabash Avenue, Chicago 5, Illinois. $2.64.

HIS IS NOT the stereotyped civics textbook. It is read-
able, informative and starts with what the average
oung .person already knows. It tells the stories of
ctual cities and towns in bringing out the essentials of
cod community living and it does not neglect the rural.
=he book begins with the locality and carries the student
from his local interest to the activities of the State and
Federal governments. All the chapters should be of in~
terest to recreation leaders because of their background
value..The chapters of particular interest are those on
“Having a Good Time" and “Offering Beauty."

The material on recreation is related to the recreation
interest of young people. It contains a brief historical
reference and covers the effect of'the automobile, radio
n-d motion picture on the recreation habits of the peOple.
readth of the recreation program is brought out and the
value of public recreation departments endorsed. Sugges-

nd not in a stiff survey outline style.
The volume is indeed a new departure in civics for high

greater knowledge and interest in community living
and its mechanics. '

College Unions

By Edith Ouzts Humphreys. Association of College
Unions, Ithaca, New York. $2.50.

‘x COLLEGE UNIONS had their beginnings, according to Mrs.
‘ Hu-m'phreys, in 1816. “They passed through various
istages of development, entering into their current philoso-
tlphy, described as “The Community Recreation Stage,”
“about 1930. Because they comlbine informal education
L‘with a well-rounded program in cultural recreation (sup-
Kiplemented on college campuses by a separate program in

sports and physical recreation) college unions are a
.F notable factor in today's recreation picture. No recrea—
Ztion worker will want to miss reading this study of col-
. lege unions, their history, development, philosophy and
‘management. The handbook may be obtained by writing

to Edgar A. Whiting, secretary-treasurer of the Assocna-
'tion of College Unions, Willard Straight Hall, Cornell
University, Ithaca, New York.

Around the World in St. Paul

.13)? Alice L. Sickels. University of Minnesota Press,
Minneapolis. $3.00.

l HOTOGRAPHS AND TEXT are used to tell the story of St.
Paul’s Festival of Nations and to relate that story to
some of the problems of our heterogeneous DODUlatlon-

' There is much here that could be read with prolit and
Pleasure by anyone who is interested in patterns of inter-
l group cooperation.

. DECEMBER 1946

  

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 
   
  
  
   
   
  
     
   
  
      
  

Values for Survival

By Lewis Mumford. Harcourt, Brac d Co
New York. $3.00. e an mpany'

LEWIS MUMFORD believes that the acute ills of contempo-
rary society are rooted in the fatal rejection of
spiritual values at virtually all levels of our civilization.
We have been relying too much upon rational processes
and mechanical developments. He writes: “Nothing is
sacred but human life.” He accepts a religious basis of
experience. He believes the humanities must be restored
to their original function of serving man’s deepest needs.

The Happy Island

Photo-illustrations, by Toni Frissell. Story by Sally Lee
VVoodall. U. S. Camera Books, New York. $2.00.

THE HAPPY ISLAND is a happy combination of text and

illustrative photographs. The book is designed to
bring the everyday life of fdur children who live in
Bermuda to other children everywhere. The story, told
with charm and simplicity, supplements and is supple-
mented by Toni F rissell’s hue camera studies of children
at play. The book should serve many purposes in the
recreation library.

For Gilbert and Sullivan Fans

GILBERT AND SULLIVAN SONGS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE, selected
and arranged by Margaret Bush. Whittlesey House,
New York. $2.75.

H.M.S. PINAFORE, adapted by Opal \Vheeler. E. P. Dut-
ton and Company, Inc., New York. $3.00.

THERE ARE, perhaps, 110 songs more full of delight than
'those written by Sir W. S. Gilbert and set to music
by Sir Arthur Sullivan. Unfortunately the full scores
of the Gilbert and Sullivan operettas are not, as originally
scored, easily within the musical range of the average
person who would play the accompaniments on the piano,
nor are all of the songs easily singable by untrained
voices. It is, good, therefore, to report two books which
present Gilbert and Sullivan in a form eSpecially designed
for use by young people and children. In both books the
music is readily singable and piano-playable. Both are
attractively illustrated, durably bound and of a size for
easy use at and around the piano.

Gilbert and Sullivan Songs for Young I’m-Mr is a eul-
lection of the more familiar “gems” from 11 of the
operettas. An introduction and running notes on each of
the operettas have been prepared by J. R. dc la'lorre
B-ueno, Jr. These and the illustrations by Erna .\l. harolyr
fill in the backgrounds for the songs for those people who
do not know the Operetta as a whole. .

“H.M.S. Pinaforc launches,” according to the Jacket
blurb, "a series of Gilbert and Sullivan Operettas written
in story form by Miss Wheeler.” The tnum‘ is arranged
for children, the story is geared to their understanding
and the Fritz Kredel illustrations will go straight to fun-

loving young hearts.

511

512 BOOKS RECEIVED

Books Received

 

CHILDREN
China A to Z, by Emily Hahn. Franklin Watts, Inc.,
New York. $1.50.

Horse That Takes the Mill: Around, The, by Helen
Sterling. Franklin Watts, Inc_., New York. $1.50.

INSTRUCTION BOOKLETS

Annual Reports—How to Plan and Write Them, by

Beatrice K. Tolleris. National Publicity Council for
Health and Welfare Service, New York. $1.00.

MISCELLANEOUS
American School and University 1946, The. American
School Publishing Corporation, New York. $4.00.

Democracy for All, by Helen Parker Mudgett. T'he Uni-
versity of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

$.50.

Social Insight Through Short Stories, edited by Josephine
Strode. Harper and Brothers, New York. $3.00.

Weather, The, by George Kiinible and Raymond Bush.
Penguin Books, Inc., New York. $.25.

RECREATION ACTIVITIES FOR ALL OCCASIONS

New York! New York! Iby Ruth McAneny Loud and

Agnes Adams Wales. Duell, Sloan -and Pearce,
New York. $1.25.

Planning Ahead. National Catholic Community Service,
New York. $2.00.

RURAL LIFE

Rural Life and the Church, by David Edgar Lindstrom,
Ph. D. The Garrard Press, C-hampaign, Illinois.

$2.50.

SPORT GUIDE BOOKS

How to Play Golf, ‘by Sam Snead. Garden City Publish-
ing Co., New York. $2.00. -

Opicial Field Hockey-Lacrosse Guide 1946-1948. A. 'S.
Barnes and Co., New York. $.35.

Opicial Football Guide 1946. A. S. Barnes and Co., New
York. $.50.

Official Individual Sports Guide 1946-1948. A. S. Barnes
and Co., New York. $.35.

Official Soccer Guide 1946. A. S. Barnes and Co., New
York. $.50.

Official Soccer-Speedball Guide Including Field Ball 1946-
1948. A. S. Barnes and Co., New York. $.35.

Official Tennis-Badminton Guide 1946-1948. A. S. Barnes
and Co., New York. $.35. '-

Official Tennis Guide, 1946. A. S. Barn ' d . I
York. $.50. es an -CO’ MW

1946 National Fishing Guide, compiled by William Voigt,
Jr. A. S. Barnes and Co., New York. $1.00.

Winning Golf, by Byron Nelson. A. S. Ba
New York. $2.50. ms and C0,

    
 
  
     
   
  

STATEMENT OF THE' OWNERSHIP, MANACEMEN
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACTS
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AND MARCH 3, 193
of RECREATION, published monthly at New York 10, N. Y., t

October ‘1, 1945.

STATE OF NEw YORK, }
T ss.
COUNTY OF 1\Ew YORK,

Before me, a notary public, in and for the State and count
aforesaid, personally appeared Rosa JAY SCHWARTZ, who, havin
been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that .she
the Business Manager of RECREATION, and that the followmg i
to the best of her knowledge and belief, a true statement of t1
ownership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation
etc., of the aforesaid ublication for the date shown in the abo
caption, required by t e Act of August 24, _1912, as amended
the Act of March 3, 1933, embodied in section 537, Postal La
and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to Wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, ma
aging editor, and business manager are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenu
New York 10. N. Y.

Editor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 1:
N. Y.

Managing Editor: Anne 1. Faulkner, 315 Fourth Avenue, Ne
York 10, N. Y.

Business Manager: R. J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, Ne
'York 10, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name an
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the name
and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent
more Of total amount of stock. If not owned by a co oration, th
names and addressesof the individual owners must e given. I
owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, it
name and address, as well as those of each individual membe
must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, Nev‘
York 10, N. Y.

F. W. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemis, Boston
Mass.; Mrs. Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.; Howar
Braucher, New York, N. Y.; Henry L. Corbett, Portland, Ore.,
Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, Jacksonv1lle, Fla.; Hari6 P. Davison,
New York, N. Y.; Mrs. Thomas A. Edison, West range, N. 1.;
Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.; Robert Grant, 3rd, Jericho, L. I.,
N. Y.; Austin E. Griffiths, Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Norman Har-
rower, Fitchburg, Mass; Mrs. Melville H. Haskell, Tucson, Ariz.;
Mrs. Charles V. Hickox, Michigan Cit , Ind.; Mrs. John D.
Jameson, Sugar Hill, N. H.; Susan M. e, New York, N. Y.;
Otto T. Mailer , Philadelphia, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken, Augusta,
Me.; Mrs. 0g en L. Mills, Woodbury, N. Y.; Mrs. Si und1
Stern, San Francisco, Calif; J. C. Walsh, New York, . Y.;.
Frederick M. Warburg, New York, N. Y.; John G. Winant,.
Concord, N. H.; Stanley Woodward, Washington, D. C.

3. That the known- bondholders, mortgagees, and other security:
holders owning or holding 1' per cent or more Of total amount of]
bonds), mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, 30.
state. ‘

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above giving the names of the:
owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not!
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stock--
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the company:
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the!
person or corporation of whom such trustee is acting, is given;.
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing
afliant’s full_ knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who d01
not appear upon the books of the compan as trustees, hold stock.
and securities in a capacity other than t at of bona fide owner;.
and this aiiiant has no reason to believe that any other person,.
association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in:
the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by her..

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this pub
lication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid'
subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date shown
above is (This information is required from daily publicatio .
only.) [\1

it

ROSE JAY Scuwanrz. ~

lgfgvorn to and subscribed before me this 26th day of September, .

[SEAL] MIRIAM S. C. DOCHTERMANN,
Notary Public, NaSSau County.

Nassau County' Clerk’s No. 137. Certiiicate Filed in New .York
County. Clerk’s No. 26. Register’s No. 27-D-6. . My Commissio
expires March 30, 1947. kl

" RECREATIONI

