You Don't Worry So Much
When You Play

IT’S easy to worry.
Always there is the international situation, and prices are high.
It’s hard to buy what you want even if you have the money.

And even if the Dodgers are ahead today, they may be behind
tomorrow.

It’s easy to worry.

You worry more because of what’s inside you than what’s outside.
It’s easier to change what’s inside.

The easiest way to change what’s inside is to play.

Play tennis, softball, golf.

Skate, swim, lie in the sun.

Just give the good old body a chance.
Relax.

Give your inner spirit a chance to tune up.
Let your digestion come back.

Give yourself a chance to laugh.

You may be able to make it.

The world situation has not changed.

The Dodgers are just as uncertain.

The humidity is just as high.

But somehow you have stopped worrying.
Just because you let yourself go and played.
As you were made to do.

As you like to do.

As your friends like to have you do.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

   

- OCTOBER I946

345

.U .2 sammmgma £33~§§ob sorghum amigo

 

“Where Shal We Adventure?"

" - HE RACKETY-PACKETY things that children love,
iTthe raggle-taggle things that invite investiga-

tion and stimulate intellectual curiosity, are
usually absent from playgrounds. They disturb
that well-swept look that often verges on bleak-
ness! And so, too often, the program is limited
to the generally accepted playground activities, and
the enchantment of the unusual is lost.

Not so in Memphis. For Memphis has Minnie
Wagner. And Minnie Wagner has a staff imbued
lwith the same zest for exploration in, playways
lthat she has. 1

Where but in Memphis would you find an old
touring car in the corner of a playground? Its
wheels, to be sure, are imbedded in cement, but
every day it travels to “Providence or Babylon or
off to Malabar.” A leader passing it one day saw
a five-year-old at the wheel, his mother at his side.
“I did not ask where they were going, but from
the expression on their faces, I knew it was a
journey of great importance.”

Seven old planes, their wings outstretched over
free play areas were moored safely. to the ground
one summer. Their instrument panels were studied
by knowing eyes and gauges investigated by grimy
little fingers. Hot afternoons pilot after pilot seated
himself inthe cockpit and in spirit lifted his earth-
bound ship into the cool
blue and steered for far

horizons.
,
’1 “So fine a show was never

    

seen
I' At the great circus on
I the green;
i For every kind of beast
and man
Is marching in that cara-
”

h van
[n A “big top,” minus roof,
" with six foot canvas sides
and emblazoned front
'ilanked_by gaudy side
shows, “snake charmers,”
“midgets” and “strong
.men” makes the rounds of
the playgrounds.

Each ground provides
its own circus performers
.and rehearses the numbers
\the week prior to the ar-

 
 

+ OCTOBER 1946

rival of-the big top. The director of the ground
receives at the beginning of the season informa-
tion about the music that will be furnished by the
Recreation Department band, a description of cos-
tumes and the animal bodies that will be available,
and a list of properties including ladders, plat-
forms, balance beams and painted barrels and
stools.

The band is made up of children from all over
the city and is under the leadership of a profes-
sional director. Though the membership is large,
only about eight or ten children perform at each
circus. A balanced group is selected from the
neighborhood adjacent to the playground where
the circus is held. Thus no child is burdened with
the responsibility of appearing in the program to
the point of drudgery.

Before the performance there is a parade. Its
main feature is the circus wagon, red and yellow
with gold curleycues. When it comes to a stop
platforms with red steps are put up against its
sides so that the long waiting line of children can
get close to the animal cages. The zoo, cooperat-
ing with the playground, furnishes as its contri-
bution to the circus little goats, tiny raccoons,
young alligators, beautifully colored birds. This
part of the show varies from week to week accord—

 

348

ing to the kind of infant population that is available
at the 200. A barker with true circus lingo bally-
hoos the show and sells his tickets for a smile.

Inside the big top are gala circus bleachers and
a band platform. The sawdust ring is outlined with
short sections of painted 2x4’s and around this
trudge “elephants” on small sun-tanned legs. Snar-
ling “tigers” slink along under the trainer’s whip,
so unaccustomed to walking on all fours that they
leave long gaps in the procession and are more
often than not passed by the two-legged “ponies”
whose glittering trappings sometimes fail to con-
ceal this anatomical deficiency. Clowns, with that
wild abandon that band music and paint—smeared
faces give little boys, mingle noisily with audience
and actors. Dancers, tumblers, cowboys, pony ex-
press riders, stage coaches with small drivers of
the old west looking desperate and grim, provide
opportunities for anyone and everyone to act. Full
as the bleachers are, the number of spectators
scarcely equals the number of performers.

Acts follow each other in prompt successions—-

M
..

x ‘ '3
. m. “ma-warn «when.

\

 

“WHERE SHALL WE ADVENTURE?”

tumblers, tight rope walkers (on a balance beam)
“horses” that wheel and race, trick “ponies” tha'
count, trainers balancing themselves on the jolt-
ing backs of “elephants,” and clowns and more
clowns, their numbers increasing constantly frorr
new recruits in the audience who are unable tc
resist such an opportunity to act before the ap-
preciative crowd.

Then comes the flourish of the grand finale witl
fanfare of trumpets supplemented by the calliope-
strains of a portable organ. The performers marcl
around the ring and out of the big top to the green-
and-white-striped tent dressing rooms to check ir
costumes and remove grease paint.

“Sing a song of seasons!
Something bright in all!
Flowers in the summer,

Fires in the- fall.”

An itinerant song leader With a small piano ir
the rear of a station wagon drives from ground tc
ground afternoon and evening. She is apt to ap-
pear anytime, anywhere. Children and adults

w‘

. ..- I». .

' '1. ‘. .- .“  'f ~ ‘ -
- - ‘ 2v. .
Q ‘ '

.‘i‘f. I. -5 .II. ‘ . r. ‘
'.“~..  A;"~hav.? V;
‘. .l. .

-  .u - ,
t. t .‘ lb.  ‘
':-u  . . . ';_...

RECREATION

  

11

Oil
0!:

4

“WHERE SHALL WE ADVENTURE?”

gather around the wagon, sit on benches or on the
grass, sing the songs they know and learn new

nes. These may be jazz or hymns, folk songs or
grand opera.

“Happy hearts and happy faces,
Happy play in grassy places -——
That was how, in ancient ages,
Children grew to kings and sages.”

Each year there is a central theme integrating
the activities of the regular program of games,
sports, crafts, music, dancing, storytelling and
drama. One year it was “America the Beautiful,”
another “The Republics 0f the Americas,” a'nother
“Islands of the Pacific.”

This year it was the “American Indian.” Each
playground adopted a tribe to study. It learned
the history of the tribe, its games and songs, its
ceremonials. It studied its art, modes of dress and
habitation. The project was dedicated to the unity
of nations. The message sent to Washington many

A ‘ years ago by Hiamovi, Chief among the Dakotas,

embodles the sp1r1t 1n which _the study was under-
taken. “Long ago the Great Mystery caused this
land to be, and made the Indians to live in this
land. Then came strangers from across the Great
Water. No land had they; we gave them of our

'land. No food had they; we gave them of our

corn. The strangers have become many and they
fill all the country. . . . And when I think upon
them I know that it is right even thus. . . . S0
men, in this land where once were only Indians are
now men of every color—white, black, yellow, red
4-yet all one people. That this should come to
pass was in the heart of the Great Mystery. It is
right then, and everywhere there shall be peace.”

Indian games, dances and songs were used dur—
ing the summer for community night programs.
Indian legends were told during story hour and
dramatized by youthful playwrights for the Satur-
day radio broadcasts.

I Rh";—

At the end of the summer children of all grounds
gathered at Overton Park for a play day and
pageant on Rainbow Lake which drew an audi-
ence of 20,000. Here the tribes pitched their tepees
or wigwams, displayed their crafts, played their
games and danced. They sang their ancient chants
and gathered around the council fire to smoke
pipes wrought in craft classes for this ceremony
consecrated to peace.

Wading pools painted a clear, light blue, drained

OCTOBER 1946

349

daily and refilled are cool and inviting in Memphis.
So popular are they that the leaders have enlisted
the help of the older children in conducting water
play and patrolling the pool and surrounding area.
These enlistees are given a course in life saving,
and are called Junior Lifeguards. They assist with
the pollywog lessons when the littleSt patrons of
the grounds are taught safe water play, an excel—
lent preparation for the swimming lessons the De—
partment gives at the municipal pools.

' Annually there is a wading pool festival on each
ground. This year it was called “The Festival of
Laughing Water.” A parade of costumed children
with water pets opens the festivities. This part of
the program is sponsored by the Memphis Humane
Society Playground Pet Clubs. It is open to any—
thing that swims and is accompanied by a play-
ground child. The 1946 regatta was limited to
Indian boats. Craft classes studied the Indian’s
water transportation and made models of the birch
bark canoes of the woodland Indians, the cedar
log boat of the Northwest coast tribes, the buffalo
hide “bull” boats of the Plains Indian and the tule
Raft of the Southwest.

i“. . . When I am stronger and can choose what

I’m to do .
O, Leerie, I’ll go round at night and light the

lamps with you!”

Volunteers of all ages assist the leaders and are
formed into service clubs. They act as assistants
to leaders in the conduct of games and classes.
They are given such responsibilities as helping
keep the grounds clean and safe. Bright red bar-
rels, low enough for the smallest child to reach,
serve as containers for empty bottles, bits of broken
glass, apple cores and waste paper. Grounds in.
excellent condition are awarded an honor banner
to fly from the flag pole.

No bicycle riding is permitted on the grounds,
s0 places marked with large red and white signs
painted by the children are reserved for parking
bikes. Paint, by the way, in vivid colors is used
with a lavish hand on the Memphis grounds. The
sandbox is not of drab, weather-beaten boards. It
is bright blue or green. Game boxes, bulletin
board frames, craft tables and benches get a new
coat of paint annually from children and leaders

during “clean-up, fix-up, paint-up week.”

Safety lines are painted around apparatus and
certain game areas. Craft tables are surrounded
by safety lines to protect children using scissors,

350 “WHERE SHALL WE ADVENTURE?”

knives and saws from being ' c...

jostled or run into by
other children.

Each ground has a Safety
Council. The members of
the Council are divided
into squads that are sched—
uled for definite responsi-
bilities. Every evening
when the children assem—
ble for the flag ceremony a
member of the Council
makes his daily report. A
weekly report is filed by
the Council at the main
oHice. Grounds having no
accidents for the week re-
ceive a safety banner which
they fly until their good
record is broken.

A police captain with an
office in the Board of Edu-
cation building has charge
of safety education in Memphis. He works par-
ticularly with school children and their parents.
He attends the weekly staff meeting of playground
leaders. Here are referred to him special problems
on safety such as street crossings which present
unusual traffic hazards and the possibility of having
speed limits changed in congested areas. Requisi-
tion for police help for special events are made at
this meeting. Here, too, a leader may request the
captain’s assistance in the organization of the
ground’s Safety Council or his attendance at one
of its meetings.

One of the men’s service clubs works with the
Department in a safety campaign which culminates
in August with a city-wide oratorical program.
Representatives of every playground participate.

“Children, you may dine
On the golden smell of broom
And the shade of pine;

And when you have eaten well,
Fairy stories hear and tell.”

Storytelling has charm for all children. Memphis
enhanced this charm one summer by dressing its
storyteller in a peasant costume and sending her
jogging from ground to ground in a small red
cart drawn by a gay little donkey. The Memphis
Chapter of the Storyteller Leagues schedules vol-
unteers from its membership for weekly story
hours on the ground.

The Recreation Department with the help of the

as.“

 

gamma :04! w

 -‘$”én£lé‘%§a5;} [gm Commissi

Hg VI". '-
\ x.

. om same 9" -

x.
z A marinara. ,
l {in ms atlas

.‘-

_. .

public library each year trains a corps of older
children in storytelling. When they have satisfac—
torily completed the course they are awarded an
emblem signifying that they are qualified story-l
tellers and are then incorporated in the regular.
program as volunteer leaders. During the summer
each ground holds a storytellers’ festival. Five
storytellers are selected and each prepares a 45-.
minute program. The storytellers are costumed
and given a background in keeping with the set-
ting and mood of their stories. '
One year a fairy-tale boat with silken sails of
crimson, saffron and blue was anchored on the lake
of one of the large city parks. Every Sunday
afternoon'during the summer, with the help of .
unseen cables, it carried cargo after cargo of chil- l
dren to the opposite shore. Here in the quiet of
deep shade they heard the stories of “immortal”
actions done and valient battles lost and won.” .

 

“You in a garden green 1
With me were king and queen
Were hunter, soldier, tar '

And all the thousand things that children are.” ;
‘Scenery, light props and actors are all inside:
the tractor-drawn, ivory—colored truck, labelled in
red and gold “Playground Playhouse.” On the
evening when it arrives at the playground one 18-
foot side of the truck drops down forming a stage.
Steps are placed across the front to increase the

7—foot playing depth. Light, folding plywood scen-
RECREATION

“WHERE SHALL WE ADVENTURE?” 351

ery is put in place, lights come up and the play
is on.

This traveling theater presents an average of
three performances a week. Double or triple casts
are rehearsed so that no child need play more than
once or twice a week except in case of emergency.

The Playhouse not only furnishes entertain-
ment for the children but acts as a stimulus to
other drama activities on the playgrounds. All
children are. given an opportunity to work on
simple plays or dramatizations and encouraged
and helped in writing their own plays.

Drama clubs of boys and girls in their later
teens occasionally work up simple skits. In 1946
they spent more time on forums.

“All in the most martial manner
Marching double quick.”

The American fiag is raised at nine o’clock in
the morning, officially opening the playground. At
retreat—sunset—the children gather around it in
formation. Neighbors working in their yards or
men and women who pass by are invited by the
children to participate in the flag lowering.

Nash Buckingham, nationally known outdoor

sports writer, who had wandered over to the
ground to give his five-year-old granddaughter a
swing, wrote his impression of the ceremony for
the Memphis Commercial Appeal, June 25, 1946.
“We were summoned, probably a hundred or
more of us, old and young, to the fiagstan. At its
peak, Old Glory barely stirs in a bit of breeze. . . .
We cluster the children’s circle and somehow the
solemnity of the occasion begins coming home to
us grown-up Americans. Four urchins all stripped
to their waists, their sturdy sunburned little torsos
and fat bellies sucked in to ‘attention’ serve as
color guard. .  They advance to the fiagstaff,
take positions in order and we are led in singing
God Bless America. We steal a glance around us
at this cross-section of America, an America im-

. ploring honest leadership, dignity and peace. The

flag is slowly lowered and the tiny color guard
folds it reverently and with deepest attention to
detail they have studied so painstakingly. It is
preSented to their leader and they are dismissed.
We diSperse, too, and trail hoineward through the
cool summer dusk. . . .”

These are only some of the ways that Memphis

‘ has gone beyond the confines of what is generally

accepted as a summer playground pr0gram. No
mention has been made here of its spring session
with its Easter Hat Parade, Egg Hunt, Pan-
American celebration, Cotton Carnival Parade and

OCTOBER 1946

Children’s Ball. Nor have we described the rou-
tine program, which though past its thirtieth year,
has a freshness that only imagination and careful
planning can preserve.

Interest is stimulated each year and skills im-

proved in sports and games through classes and

clinics. The instructors have been such experts as
Bill Tilden for tennis, Billy Evans of the Southern
League for umpiring, players of the Memphis
Chicks for baseball, and members of the Red Cross
for swimming.

Each week more than 6,500 children and adults
participate in neighborhood leagues and tourna-
ments, 2,200 boys and men belong to municipal
baseball and softball teams, and more than 600
people registered for swimming lessons the open-
ing day.

Over 'the years traditional program policies have,
as a matter of course, been established. But there
is a healthy spirit of self-examination in the De-
partment that impels the scrutinizing of methods
to determine whether or not it is meeting the play
needs of the children.

A knowledge of children’s needs that passes
beyond the teaching of books into the realm of
intuitive understanding is backed up by inter-de-
partmental cooperation.

There is frank discussion between the adminis-
tration office and the leaders in such matters as
whether or not the playground day is oversched-
uled-———scheduled to a point where free play suffers,
whether or not the point system of rating grounds
has outworn its purpose, or where the need is most
urgent for more lighted areas.

The Park Board and the Superintendent of
Parks, under whom the Recreation Department
functions, have provided well—equipped, spacious
play areas. The maintenance division, by careful
planning, manages to allot space for the unorthodox
play equipment that is assembled from year to
year, so that the well—ordered grounds never take
on a disordered appearance. The Park Board’s
understanding of those play needs so diliicult to
meet in a city today has played a major part in the
success of the Memphis program. It has been
with the Board’s encouragement that Minnie
Wagner and her excellent staff have continued to
explore those little-trod byways where children
can adventure and find

“That the world is so full of a number of things
I’m sure we should all be happy as kings.“

 

'This and the preceding verses are from A Child’s Garden of
Verses, by Robert Louis Stevenson.

Music as Recreation

USIC is as important as
M recreation as it is to.
recreation. I’m sure
nobody will deny its import-
ance to recreation in dancing,
in singing, in providing restful as well as stimulat-
ing concerts, operettas and operas. Music as rec-
reation is even more important, it seems to me.

The man or woman, boy or girl, who can enjoy
himself creating in one way or another what Dr.
Samuel Johnson called “of all noise . . . the least
objectionable,” that is, music, has an edge on most
of his fellow men. Giving many people of Chicago
an opportunity to make music—not alone but in
concert—was one thing we found ourselves doing
through the activities of the Choral and Instru-
mental Association which came into being during
the war.

The other thing we have accomplished, I think,
is to reduce considerably the number of persons
in Chicago who resemble the “old person of Tring,”
an amiable but unfortunate character of limerick
fame. You may remember her.

There was an old person of Tring

Who, when somebody asked her to sing,
Replied, “Ain’t it odd?
I can never tell ‘God

Save the Weasel’ from ‘Pop Goes the King’ 1”

It has been my privilege, during the current
year, to come in close contact, as president of the
Choral and Instrumental Music Association of
Chicago, with the work of that organization.
Drawn into its orbit by the chances of postwar
activity I have been amazed at the effectiveness
and significance of their program and its results.

It was during the second summer of the war
(1943) that the beginnings of the organization
came into being as the.O.C.D. Music Committee.
It was. Ken Carrington, presently executive sec-
retary of the Association, who conceived the idea.
It was his leg work, enthusiasm and intelligent
guidance that brought something new into the
music world of a great city. The result is in-
spiring.

The idea was to provide outdoor concerts in
Chicago’s parks during the summer months for
the relaxation and stimulation of the city’s hun-
dreds of thousands of workers in war production
plants. The first summer concert series had the

352

By JOHN ALDEN CARPENTER

President
Choral and Instrumental Association
Chicago, Illinois

significant title, “Let Free-
dom Sing .”

The directors of the lead-
ing choral groups, choruses
and choirs were invited to
meet together to discuss the possibilities of such a
plan. Enthusiasm developed to a high pitch and
during the first summer concerts were given
weekly by choral groups in three of Chicago’s
largest parks.

There was no money for advertising. There
was no money to pay anyone. Spade work under
Carrington’s direction was done by the volunteer
staff of the Chicago MetrOpolitan Area Office of
Civilian Defense. Many were the heartaches dur-
ing the first summer.

The grand outcome was two-fold. The pe0ple
wanted the concerts and attended in great crowds.
The singers found that they liked singing to these
informal audiences who had not paid admission
but had gathered because they wanted to sit in
beautiful surroundings and listen to good music.

Anyone attending these outdoor concerts must
have recalled these beautiful lines from the last act

of The Merchant of Venice:

How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank
Here we will sit and let the sounds of music
Creep in our ears; soft stillness and the night
Become the touches of sweet harmony.

By the end of that first summer, no one was
willing to give up these concerts. Musicians were
excited about the possibilities. 'Mayor Edward 
Kelly praised the morale value of the concerts on

the public. The Music Committee of O.C.D. had
made a reputation for itself.

Consequently, the committee went into a huddle
and came forth'with the idea of continuing the
concerts throughout the fall and winter months in
hospitals, servicemen’s centers and park field—
houses. Again, the success of the concerts was
phenomenal. The patients in hospitals where con-
certs were given begged for repeat performances.
Servicemen shouted for encores and joined in all
community singing numbers with rousing ardor.
Families from neighborhoods surrounding the
park fieldhouses crowded the limited space for
every concert. Chicago recognized this effort to
bring good music, well presented, to places where

RECREATION

       
  
  
   

l

 such music is too seldom heard as an important
. addition to its civic life.
1 When the war began to turn in favor of the
 Allies and victory for our forces seemed assured,
the question arose in many persons’ minds, “What
. ,can we do about the O.C.D. Music Committee?”
‘ The answer was simply to rename it and continue
as before. C00peration from the Chicago Park
District was assured and the guidance of the lead-
! ing musicians of the city guaranteed. Carrington
’ continued on as executive secretary, and the Choral
‘ l and Instrumental Association of Chicago was in-
! corporated as a non-profit organization and quickly
became a going concern.
What it has meant to Chicago has bulked large
. ' in anyone’s evaluation of cultural participation of
f the pe0ple of the city. During the past year alone
seven new choruses have been formed and took
their turns in presenting free concerts throughout
the city. The number of performing groups has
grown from 11 during that 1943 war summer to
38 this year. Concerts. are now given in six parks
on five days a week during July and August. An-
other interesting development has been a notice-
able expansion of church choirs into concert
l groups in many of the city’s churches.
In 1945 the Choral and Instrumental Associa-
tion undertookthe Sponsorship of Music Week.

OCTOBER 1946

 

MUSIC AS RECREATION 353

In addition to concerts at the “World’s Busiest
Corner,” State and Madison Streets, every noon
during the week, the Association undertook a one-
day Music Conference during which outstanding
musicians and leaders in related fields came to-
gether to discuss their problems and to evaluate
new ideas. Again success marked an innovation.

Because of the importance Music Week took on
in the eyes of the people of Chicago under the
expert guidance of the directors of the Associa-
tion, Mayor Kelly requested this group to Sponsor
it again in 1946. Despite the fact that the week
to be given over to music coincided with the dim-
out caused by the shortage of coal, Music Week
was again a noteworthy achievement which gained
national recognition.

This summer the Cook County Council of the
American Legion arranged with the Association
an amalgamated chorus of 250 voices for its
Fourth of July celebration at Chicago’s gigantic
Soldiers’ Field. The members of the chorus were
selected from such prominent Chicago choruses as
the First National Bank Choral Association, the
Chicago & Northwestern Railway Company Choral
Club, the Christian High School and Alumni
Chorus and the Aeolian Choral Association.

The importance of these musical events in Chi-

(Continued on page 392)


:3

I

F

‘l
I

‘V

t

i .

Poetry—for Fun

BRANCH of the New York Public Library
A finds a way to make poetry alive and inter-
esting to the elementary school children who

come and go in its children’s room.

The children’s room of the 67th Street Branch
of the New York Public Library is a pleasant
room—wide and light-filled. It is filled, too, with
life and movement. Here is no academic hush, no
atmosphere of dead minds. Small, sturdy boys and
very young ladies in pinafores and hair ribbons
move freely from undersized chairs, and tables to
low open shelves that outline the four walls, and
chatter without restraint about the treasure trove
of words and pictures at their fingertips.

Here on an afternoon when school is out a staff
- member sits at one of the study tables. She is
surrounded by water colors and poster board,
pastel chalks—and a dozen or so small heads
squeezed and wiggled into a complicated jig-saw
puzzle of watchers.

The other tables are piled high with a judicious
selection of books—picture books bearing the im-
print of German and English and American
presses; books of poems by Walter dela Mare,
Eleanor Farjeon, Emily Dickinson, A. A. Milne
and many another poet of childhood. These tables
are the goal of youngsters-with-a-purpose. For
this is the day when a new exhibit is in the making
and the small fry are eager to be about the fas-
cinating business of helping prepare it.

Origin of a Project

I The exhibit-making project came into being
because, according to their teachers, youngsters in
the elementary schools don’t like poetry. They
copy with becoming diligence, it is true, their ten
lines of selected meters and, with becoming dili-
gence turn up next day with those lines “conned
and learned by rote.” But, nonetheless, these boys
and girls from grades one to eight show, according
to their teacher, no great passion for poetic English.

Miss Helen Brogan, children’s librarian at the
67th Street Branch, was at once distressed by this
report and inclined to be skeptical of its implica-
tions. She believed that children, naturally full of
rhythm themselves, would respond joyously to

poetry if they were given half a chance. She set
about to find a way, outside the schoolroom atmos-
phere, to test out her beliefs.

354

Process

With the help of a member of her staff who
could copy book illustrations Miss Brogan set up a
plan. One day when the youngsters dropped into
their reading room they found something new
going on. The librarian explained that it was time
to change the book exhibit in the glass cases at the
end of the room. Wouldn’t the children like to
help plan the new posters for the exhibit?

Like it? Of course, they would like it. They
clustered about the picture books and 'thumbed
them critically to decide the theme of the exhibit.
They chose flowers—for spring was in the air——
and, in a book from Germany, they found just the
pictures they wanted. The staff member set to
work—aided by hands eager to pass her colors,
by kibitzers free with entirely uninhibited sugges—
tidns. She decorated six sheets of white poster
board with reproductions of the chosen pictures.
As each poster'was finished, freshly washed fingers
erased extraneous pencil- marks and any inadvert-
ent smudges that had found their way on the
board.

Now, suggested the librarian, wouldn’t it be a
good idea to find six poems that would fit the
pictures and describe them? There were .some
books on' the tables. Why didn’t the youngsters
see what they could find?

There was a dash for the tables and, almost
before the librarian got the words out of her
mouth, the room was still with concentration ex-
cept when pages were turned in the search for
words to fit the pictures.

There were, of course, with so many research—
ers, more poems than posters. The method of
elimination was, in the main,‘ selection by the
democratic. process. Fred announced he had found
a poem that went with the purple morning glories.
“Let’s hear it. Read it out loud so we can see if
we all like it!” So, Fred’s selection is read and
judged critically by a jury of his peers. Seldom
does the librarian need to intervene in the inter-

‘ests of keeping out inept choices. One child in his

enthusiasm may slip up, but the others are quick
to see that he is wrong. On the few occasions
when adult guidance is necessary, the youngsters
are quick to follow the older leadership and to see
the reasons for the change. They can usually be

(Continued on page 396)

RECREATION

Your Own Music

for the Asking

By ARLINE BOUCHER and

JOHN LEO TEHAN

battered library card has taken on a new mean-
ing for its holder. It is in process of becoming
the key to the world of music, making available to
increasing numbers the great treasury of recorded

IN HUNDREDS of American communities the old,

' sound. Over the past 20 years libraries throughout

the country have been quietly building up collec-
tiOns of phonograph records, by means of which
the world’s best orchestras and singers can be
heard and studied by people with no other assets
than time and inclination. And the response to
this new library service has indicated that the
American public is rich in these assets. '
The campaign to introduce records into the
public library began very tentatively in 1923 when
the Springfield, Massachusetts, library installed a
modest collection over the objections of one libra-
rian who declared that “the records would be
broken in no time.” Springfield’s library patrons
were most enthusiastic over the idea. Hundreds
became regular weekly record borrowers, and many
contributed albums from their own collections.
Today the library has a collection of 3,700 albums

.with a circulation of 34,000 a year.

The idea of maintaining a record collection
which might be freely borrowed or listened to in
the libraries’ music room was put over by crusad-
ing librarians despite a good deal of oppositidn.
The experience of Dorothy Rowland, librarian in
Hartford, Connecticut, is typical. In 1941, when
her request for records was turned down by the
directors, Miss Rowland bought from her librari-
an’s salary two albums: Prokofieff’s Peter and
the Wolf and six Bach Preludes. A few minutes
after she had placed them on her desk in the

music room, a youth came, saw the records, and ,

asked excitedly, “Are they—I mean—could I take
them out ?” Since that time Hartford music lovers
have made the library’s music room one of the
busiest in the country. Its collection of some 5,000
symphonies, grand and light operas, nursery

OCTOBER 1946

r h y m e 8,
poetry read-
ings and plays,
has a circula-
tion of 35,000
records a year.
I n the five
years since the collection began, less than half a
dozen albums have been broken, and these have
been willingly replaced by borrowers.

Wherever a new record collection has been an-
nounced it has been greeted with overwhelming
eagerness by the public. When the New York
Public Library received a collection of records
and a phonograph in 1929, it planned a formal
opening for invited guests. Before the announce-
ment could be made public, however, word spread
along the library grapevine and requests to hear
the records poured in so fast that the opening was
never held. Today listeners hear their chosen rec-
ords in sound~pr00f music booths by appointment.
They are limited to half an hour, and appoint-
ments must be made three months in advance.

In Stamford, Connecticut, opera star Geraldine
Farrar offered to inaugurate the library’s record
collection with a talk on the opera, illustrating it
with her own records. On the day of the event,
2,000 people were crammed into the building and
special police had to be summoned to handle the
crowd of 20,000 who gathered outside.

Circulation figures for records show a steady
and impressive increase. Latest reports indicate
that the Long Beach, Cailfornia library tops the
list with 50,000 a year, while the Baltimore library
has 31,000. In Milwaukee circulation is 20,000 a
year, in Seattle 16,500, in Newark 15,000, and in
Oak Park, Illinois, 11,000. Average circulation
figure for medium-sized libraries is around 8,500
a year.

Many of the best record collections started
modestly. In Hattiesburg, Mississippi, Mary

 

355

3S6 YOUR OWN MUSIC FOR THE ASKING

Moore Mitchell decided that her 30-year-old file
of newspapers was only accumulating dust. She
sold the papers to the scrap- drive, and with the
$30 she received, plus a few of her own records,
started the library collection. Hattiesburg citizens
caught on and chipped in'with cash and more
records.

The collection in Alameda, California, started
as a “swap table,” where record enthusiasts could
lend or contribute records they had tired of. In
the Queens Borough Public Library in Far Rock—
away, New York, a group of college students
canvassed the neighborhood and raised enough
money to present to the library a collection of 17
albums. With the librarian’s help they
painted a large closet off the main reading .
room, equipped it with a table, chairs and a
phonograph, and gave the public a simple but
widely-used “listening room.”

Many libraries have been the lucky re-
cipients of the Carnegie Col—
lection, which includes an elec-
tric phonograph, 950 records
(covering musical masterpieces
from Scarlatti to Stravinsky),
and a complete card index.

Listening at its
best is found in
the Grosvenor Li-
brary in Buffalo,

New York, where

the commodious

music room has

two grand pianos

on which a well—

known duo-piano

team practices ,
every day. Music students give recitals here, and
music lovers listen to their favorite records. In
1940 the Buffalo musicologist, George Nathan
Newman, presented his internationally famous col-
lection of 7, 500 records to the library. In addition
to a complete grouping of symphonies, grand and
light operas, musical comedies, church music, and
Americana such as Stephen Foster and Victor
Herbert, there are such collectors’ items as speeches
by Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Hard-
ing, Taft and Coolidge; the poet, Eugene Field,
reading his poems; and the voices of the great
Shakespearean actors, Sothern, Marlowe and John
Barrymore, as well as 500 old style cylindrical
Edison records. '

In Los Angeles, music lovers are given a special

 
   
  
    

treat in the form of a week—day luncheon-hour
program of recorded music, sponsored by the li-
brary. Business men, stenographers, lawyers and
sales girls drop in to listen, make requests which
range from M 31 Old Kentucky Home to a Mozart
Mass. One man was so impressed that he donated
his collection of 300 records which he had spent
35 years in assembling. A soldier about to leave
for active military service in the Pacific left this
library a copy of his will, in which a sum of money
was set aside to buy records. “In case I don’t come
back,” he added, “I want others to share the
pleasure I’ve had here.” Gifts 'of records as a
memorial to a son or husband who was killed in
his country’s service are growing in popu-
larity. In Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, the
library’s entire music room has been dedi-
cated to the memory of the town’s veterans.

A small library whose record department
approximates the ideal is the Thomas Crane
Public Library in Quincy, Massachusetts,
which devotes a
whole wing to the
music division.
Here you may
browse among
records, sheet
music and scores,
select any of the
3,000 records, and
play them. com-
fortably in one of
four sound-proof,
booths. So popular is this service that people
from surrounding towns gladly pay for a
library card in order to obtain the borrowing
privilege.

In many libraries, listeners are provided with
earphones which give them a false sense of isola-
tion. Sometimes a dignified elderly man, listening
intently to his favorite Rossini overture, begins to
wave his arms vigorously conductor-wise and sing
in a powerful baritone. Or a slim youth listening
to Offenbach’s Gaieté Parisienne impulsively
shouts “Bravo!” at the conclusion. Librarians have
learned to accept these occasional outbursts with I
leniency. 

. Listeners vary widely in their musical knowl- 
edge and desires. In Brooklyn a young woman j

came to'the library every day, listened intently to
a rendition of the “Flower Song” from Camwn,

even following the words with her lips. One day
(Continued on page 388)

.J

£1
RECREATION

Success Story

of_Montpelier, Vermont,

(pop. 8,006), appointed a
Citizens’ Committee to study
the recreation needs of the city and to make a re—
port. This action came as a direct result of the
interest of many civic-minded people who felt the
needfor a year-round recreation pr0gram. True,
the city had one of New England’s largest munici-
pal swimming pools. But what of the recreation
needs during the long winter months? There were

no municipally-sponsored' leisure time pursuits
during the winter season.

I... DECEMBER 1943, the Mayor By RICHARD S. WESTGATE

Getting Under Way

The Mayor and Citizens’ Committee consulted
the Vermont Director of Recreation about pro-
cedures, tentative budgets, and recommendations.
Many meetings were held before the city meeting
on March 6, 1945, when an . appropriation was
made for ayear-round system of recreation.

When this was done the newly elected Mayor
appointed a committee of eight as a Recreation
Committee. The committee was composed of five lay
people, plus the Recreation Field Committee made
up of three members of the Council. They im-
mediately set out to find a qualified worker for the
positibn of Superintendent of Recreation. The‘Ver—
mont Director of Recreation was called in to. assist
in this task. A Superintendent was appointed to
fill theposition, his duties starting June I 5, 1945.

4‘

Wanted—a Center

The summer program got under way and, by
fall, the burning question was where to conduct a
Community Center program during the. winter
months. We knew we had

to find a suitable place, for
the continuation of year-
round municipal recreation
depended entirely on what
was done this first year.
But no visible facilities were
at hand. The 'Community
Hall was already .occupied.

that the City Hall had the

Immediately we went to

OCTOBER 1946

Director of Recreation
Montpelier. Vermont

The size at the community's population
seems to make very little difference it its
citizens decide they want a year-round rec-
reation program. Here. as witness to that
fact. is a story from Montpelier. Vermont.
The town's population was. at the time at
the I940 census. only 8.006. But these
people went after recreation for their com:

' - munity and got iltl Th'iji articlle tells :ome-
° - - thin about w at ontpeier ci izens

we anally hlt Upon the Idea wanged for themselves. about how they set
. out to get it. and about what they
only avallable SPaCe- got. The moral is clear. Size isn't a

drawback once the community is aroused.

work and cleaned up a few of
the basement rooms. One of "the
rooms was large enough to ac-
commodate. a pool table, three
table tennis tables, two game tables, and a work
bench. The other room would be suitable for danc.»
ing. Next item on the list was equipment. Here
the public soon came to the rescue. The only thing -
we found it necessary to buy was a pool table. The
dancing and reading rooms now have a juke box,
plenty of easy chairs and good reading material
for the young people.

We then made arrangements for basketball and
other active indoor sports with the local high
school. This gave us ample time and space to carry
on a well-rounded athletic program. Our indoor
program, occupying three small rooms in the base-
ment of the City Hall and the gym in the Com-
munity Hall, has been very successful. ' '

Program

Our Community Center program includes the
following activities:

MONDAY EVEN IN G

6:00 Club Basketball League
7:00 Chorus Rehearsal
7:00 Camera Club

8:00 Community Forum series
8:00 Movies first and third Monday of the month

TUESDAY .

4:00 Collegiate Basketball League
7:00 Dancing and Reading Room Open

7:00 Game Room Open .
7:00 Badminton for Adult Men and Women

\VEDNESDAY
7:00 Women’s Basketball League
7:00 Dancing and Reading Rooms Open
7:00 Game Room Open
7:00 Badminton for Adult
Men and Women ~
7:30 Weight Lifting for
Men and Boys

THURSDAY
6:00 Club Basketball League
7 :00 Dancing and Reading
Rooms Open
7 :00 Game Room Open
7:00 Boxing Class

FRI DAY
4 :00 Collegiate Basketball

League
(Continued on page 392)

357

A Progress Report on Membership

5

By WAYNE C. SOMMER
Chairman, Membership Committee
Society of Recreation Workers of America

URING ITS CURRENT FIS-
D CAL YEAR ending next
October 15, the So-
ciety 0f RecreationWorkers
of ’America will have enrolled well over 1,000
members. In the nine months to date the number
is 1105. This more than doubles the average
yearly enrollment (518) of the seven previous
years since the organization was founded in 1938.
- For the first time since the Society was or-
ganized, a membership committee has had a two-
year term. It has taken that long to set up and
test a record-keeping system which assures a
reliable current file and, at the same time, makes
possible a perpetual year-to-year record of each
member’s standing.

It is essential that we have such a system, n6t
alone because common-sense business procedure
requires that the Society’s work be conducted in
a businesslike manner. but also because growth
depends in large measure upon an analysis of
membership characteristics so that future admin—
istrations may see where strengths and weak—
nesses lie.

The first striking characteristic of this year’s
enrollment is the large proportion of member-
ships in the Active Affiliated category. Of the I 105
members, 947 are in this classification. Last year
out of a total of 716 members only 496 were listed
as Active Affiliated. At the same time, the num-
ber of affiliated organizations increased from 19
in 1945'to 24 in 1946, (There were only ten in
1944-) '

At present, the number of members in other

categories is as follows: Active Individual—~—-155,
Student—I, and Honorary-be.

The second noteworthy characteristic is the
geographical distribution of membership. The
Michigan Recreation Association has enrolled 139
members, oddly enough with only one or two from
the city of Detroit. Henry Schubert of Dear-
born has sparked the campaign in his State. In
the Southeast, the Georgia Recreation Associa-
tion, of which Oka T. Hester is president, has
I 38 members in the Society. Then the North
Carolina Recreation Association comes third with
67. Jesse Reynolds, in Wilmington, heads this
affiliate. These three are outstanding, but there

358

f

are signs of growing com—-
petition from other sections
of the country.

Notable because of rela—
tively small enrollments are nearly all of the large
cities. Washington, D. C., alone has maintained
a. pace for several years of between 75 and 100
members, including both Active Individual and
Active Affiliated.

Incidentally, both of these categories of mem-
bership have the same privileges in the organiza-
tion. The only distinction is that Active Affiliates
have received a “bargain” rate, presumably be-
cause they come in wholesale lots. The framers
of the constitution made this provision, not the

membership committee.

The first stated objective of the Society is “to
unite all recreation workers into one organiza—
tion.” It'is interesting to note that our members
do come from many different branches of the
recreation field. The Society has been erroneously
labelled as ah organization of public recreation
workers. Actually, it is not that at all. In one year
approximately 50 percent of the membership came
from voluntary agencies. The current enrollment,
although not quite that high in proportion, is a
real cross-section of all types of jobs. Public
agencies, of course, at municipal, county, State,
and Federal levels are represented. Voluntary
agency professionals include Girl Scouts, Boys’
Clubs, Boy Scouts, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., U.S.O.,
American Red Cross, National Recreation Asso-
ciation, Councils of Social Agencies. Industrial
recreation has several representatives and there
are persons engaged in full-time- teaching of rec-
reation in universities and colleges.

During the war years it was the Society’s policy
to carry its members who entered the Armed
Services on a free basis. This was done in every
case where information was received. Many who
have returned to civilian clothes have notified us q
of their whereabouts and have reestablished con- \i
tact with the Society. It is self-evident that we
can only keep tabs' on those who do let us know
where they are. '

From the foregoing, the potential strength of
the Society should easily be visualized. The Year

(Continued on page 388) ‘i

RECREATION

 

Junior r

Foresters * .

By FRANK PIPAL
City Forester

Omaha. Nebraska

ll EVER BEFORE in the history of our country
has there been such an appreciation of the

value of trees in the life of the nation,”
wrote a 12-year-old boy in his essay in one of the
Omaha schools.

“We young citizens should plant trees in recog-
nition of the obligations we owe to‘those who
planted trees for us,” commented an 11-year-old
girl living in the dry shelterbelt 'of central Ne-
braska.

Another youngster made it a little stronger by
saying, “It is the duty of the present generation to
plant trees for future generations to enjoy the
beautiful and comforting shade and protection of
these areas.”

These and similar comments were made by

Omaha Junior Foresters and other school children

in Nebraska who wrote essays on “More and Bet-
ter Shade Trees.”

In the 1943 Proceedings of the National Shade
Tree Conference, “Dick” Alman, the Cedar Rapids,
IoWa, arborist, told something about the Junior
Forester organization in Omaha.

This group is now over four years old, and in-
dividual clubs have been organized in 20 schools.
Other schools are waiting to be organized as soon
as proper assistance can be provided. All schools
in the city, however, are taking greater interest in
trees than ever before, and the subject of their pro-
tection is repeatedly emphasized.

. Most of these clubs include the pupils from the

sixth and seventh grades. A few schools include
the fifth and the eighth grades.

Every Pupil a Forester

Where the fifth graders are placed on the wait-
ing list it is gratifying to note how insistently they
continue to ask their teachers when they can be-
come Junior Foresters. They like it, and it is sur-

 

‘Reprinted by permission from 'Arboris't's News, published by the
National Shade Tree Conference, March, 1946.

OCTOBER 1946

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

prising how seriously most of them take it, and
how faithfully and enthusiastically they carry out
their tree creed. One school considers all pupils
Junior Foresters and gives them the most vital in-
formation about trees, but only two or more of the
upper grades do the specialized work.

The specialized instruction consists of at least
six lectures and demonstrations, given by the City
Forester or the sponsor teacher who is qualified
to do it. The main subjects taught are: _

How a tree grows, including the structure and

function of its various parts

How to plant a tree

Best varieties to plant and how to space them

How to care for a tree: A—pruning; B—water:

ing ; C—fertilizing ' '

Tree enemies and the methods of their control

Products made from trees and other interesting

facts

Surgery is also discussed and demonstrated to

some extent

This course generally starts the second term of
the school — in F ebruary—and continues until
Arbor Day— April 22. Outside of the special
lectures and demonstrations the clubs and other
teacher-sponsors carry on more detailed work by
reviewing the preceding lessons by reference read:
ing, and putting into practice what they learned——
whenever possible.

359

360 JUNIOR FORESTERS

The demonstrations include actual specimens and
operations wherever possible and practicable. In
the first lesson—how a tree grows—a tree about
seven or eight feet tall, with roots and leaves (the
leaves are artificial) is equipped with a brace so it
will stand upright. About one-third of the trunk
is cut off lengthwise so as to show the location of
the cambium, inner bark, and other parts. The
course of the water and the mineral salts is traced
from the soil to the leaves, and then the manu-
factured sap back to the various parts of the tree.
When the demonstration is over the children un—
derstand that a tree is a living thing, and that its
food-manufacturing process reveals some of the
greatest miracles to be found in Nature. Its im—
portance and value are firmly impressed upon their
minds and they fully understand why it should be

protected. Ask one ’of them why the bark should ‘

not be bruised on any tree and you will be de-
lighted with the explanation.

In a pruning demonstration a suitable tree-like
branch is set into a half-block and after the needs
and ways of pruning are discussed the pupils do
most of the pruning. Both boys and girls are
asked to take part—usually about six of them.
Then others are asked to do the wound painting.
All watch the performers critically and if a mis-
take is made they speak up quickly. When an in-
experienced pupil —especially a girl—has some
difiiculties in sawing off a larger branch but finally
completes the task a cheer goes up that would
make any performer swell with pride. And they
do swell with pride. And some of them go home
and immediately want to test their pruning skill
on their own trees.

Watering and fertilizing practices as well as
additional pruning, are carried out on the school
grounds and at home. I '

Actual planting is demonstrated, and at the
proper time trees are planted—as 'a rule every
spring—on the school lot and, in many cases, at
home. More information will be given about this
later. '

Special Projects

In connection with the lesson on tree enemies
some of the clubs have collections of pest speci-
mens, and also samples of the various chemicals
used in their control. r

Trips to some of the parks are made at times,
or a number of blocks around the schools are sur-
veyed and a special study and reports are made on

the varieties of trees found, and any other im-
portant and interesting features.

Last yearthe City Board of Education acquired
the Joslyn Castle and its beautiful grounds, several
acres in extent, and planted with many kinds of
trees and shrubs. This outstanding property was

the former; home of the Joslyns, a wealthy pioneer .

family of Omaha. The Junior Foresters took a

.prominent part in organizing a program to develop

an arboretum there, with many practical and edu-
cational features to promote the campaign for more
and better trees, and more beautiful and happier
homes. The public schools collected enough money
to purchase and plant enough trees to increase the
number of varieties from 47 to about 100. Pupils
from every school are taken there at various times
to study these trees and learn about their value,
culture and care. More varieties of trees and also
shrubs will be added each season, to demonstrate
what can be grown successfully in this particular
area. The project carries an important educational
value not only for the school children but also for
every home owner in the city.

Practical Results

What are some of the practical results?

Most of the schools planted more trees than
ever before, especially where they had Junior
Foresters: The idea of beautifying the grounds
became quite‘ infectious, and included not only the

planting of trees and shrubs but also flowers and.

improving the lawn.
Funds to pay for the trees and other materials
are earned by the children, but they also get dona—

(Continued on page 397)

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

RECREATION

 

nor even a student of poetry

-—-as, I imagine, professional poets will observe.
I write verse, as I do many other things, in- the
spirit of recreation. Thereis, perhaps, some merit
in amateurish invasion of professional fields. I like
to think that art belongs to amateurs and the pro-
feSsionals are the invaders. In the ancient Greek
drama, the actors came from the audience. It
was a rather normal condition when all the people
sang and danced and made music and felt called
upon to create beauty. Some reached a higher
degree of perfection than others. These presently
became the experts and then the professionals.

I AM NOT a professional poet,

At this juncture, the average person realized
that he was out-classed in his efforts. The'expert,
with his superior abilities, encouraged others to
be conscious of their own inferiority and of his
excellence. As he increased his expertness the
gap between him and the people widened. The
contrast became so notable that the professional
class arose. And then the great transformation
in art took place, the people found their pleasure
in what the expert did for them rather than in their
own expression. The result was: on one side the
artist; on the other, the audience.

One time my children and I were playing ball
with my brother’s family. The crowd going home
at the end of a professional ball game stopped to
peer through the fence at us and expressed them-
selves to the effect that they thought our playing
was absurdly poor, although none of them, I
dare say, could play as well as we. This is what
professionalism does. I think we amateur players
got more fun, to say nothing of education, out of
our game that day than did the audience who sat
and watched other people play as a business.

Just at the present time while writing this
Preface, I am acting as nurse to a two-year-old
granddaughter. Though I am not a trained nurse,

I imagine I. am having more fun taking care of.

this lovely infant than a trained nurse would, and
at the same time I am doing a fairly acceptable
job.

Similar contrasts could be cited in other arts.

Among my recollections is the memory of my

 

* Reprinted by the author’s permission from the Preface to his
volume of poems,-Poems of the Family Circle, the. Island Press,

New York.

OCTOBER 1946

A Case for the Amateur*

By JAMES PETER WARBASSE

wanderings in student days on
Sunday evenings through
small towns in Austria and Bavaria, where I heard
music coming from almost every house—the
people expressing themselves in art.

“I Sing the Amateur"

I sing the amateur. For essentially that is what
everybody is; I always have the attitude toward
any product that it might be improved, that there
might be something beyond, something a little
farther on the way toward that intangible goal—
perfection. The best results in art may be ex-
pected as art becomes the product of leisure or
recreation rather than of necessity. There is rea—
son for the importance of labor-saving devices. Not
labor, but leisure muSt be the aim of civilization.

I do not mean to deprecate the experts. I was
in that category myself for 30 years—a surgeon—
and I know that it is the expert who preserves
and. advances the art. I am simply trying to say
a word for the non-expert.

In.the field of music there seems to be a surfeit
of experts and a dearth of amateurs. The amateur
should know the possibilities of. his art. Recrea-
tion should be his purpose if he is to get the
greatest enjoyment his skill can yield. By that I
mean re-creation, making himself anew, giving
himself something newly created. Everyone is a
poet at heart, and the creative impulse exists in
each normal person. It is a predominant quality.
It craves expression. Many a man is wasting
himself in drudgery when he needs to express
himself in some form of art.

I have had so much fun writing these verses,
with no thought of publication, that ,I want to
encourage others to do likewise. Many of these
lines. were written aboard trains, some in meet-a
ings when the discussion was dull: The most
satisfying were written in the quiet of beautiful

environment. To begin, one needs only an idea

and the wording of it singing harmoniously in his
mind. I take this occasion to recommend the
writing of verse as a recreation. There are millions

of poets not conscious of the opportunity for fun
they are missing. Leonardo da Vinci said that

his genius consisted in employing his faculties,
(Continued on page 394)

361

Is There

a Piaturahst
in the
CommunitY?*

By JEAN CARTER OGDEN

nity? If there is, and if he is willing

to share his knowledge, you have all
that is necessary for the development of
one of the finest recreation programs a
community could have. This is the opin—
ion of residents of Danville, Virginia.
They offer as evidence the fact that as a
result of one man’s interest Danville has
developed, in about four years, more than
3,000 ardent nature lovers. Most of them are
young people who combine a serious and scien-
tific study with pleasant rambles about the trails,
woods, streams, and parks in and around their
small city.

The man who has given leadership to this pro-
gram maintains that if you have a naturalist, you
do not need to worry about the second if. He is
sure to be not only willing but eager to share his
knowledge, for an interest in nature is one 'of the
most contagious of hobbies. When Mr. John
Westbrook returned to his native city about four
years ago, he continued to indulge this life-long
hobby of his. Others were curious. He began to
take little groups with him on his field trips. The
Recreation Department became interested. Within
a year the city officials had authorized a nature

division of the Recreation Department under his
direction.

IS THERE A NATURALIST in your commu—

The Program Grows

The program continued to grow. It Caught the
attention of civic clubs whose members had sons
and daughters among the young enthusiasts. In
fact, enthusiasm had not confined itself to sons

 

“Reprinted lg permission from New Dominion Series, published
3:

by the _tension Division of the UniVersity of Virginia,
Charlotteswlle, Virginia.

362

 

and daughters but had frequently taken hold of
parents as well. Entire families were taking field
trips, making collections, or hunting with cameras.
About two years after it all began, theheads of 61
civic organizations signed a petition to the City
Council commending the program and endorsing
a proposal for a field museum. An appropriation
was made, architect’s plans were drawn, and as
soon as materials were available, work was begun
on what will be an impressive museum in the city’s
park. .
The Proof of the PrOgram
Impressive though it be to have this recogni-
tion of the imp‘ortance of the program to the com-
munity, it is by no means the most impressive bit
of evidence of its value. That is to be found in the
boys and girls themselves. They are not only
ardent students of nature in general, but many of
them have become “Specialists.” They devote their
attention primarily to birds or flowers or trees or
butterflies and attempt to know all there is to
know about their chosen fields of specialization.
Some even state proudly that they are “herpetolo-
gists” and have the evidence to prove it. Most of
the .young people have collections—modest or ex-
tensive—in the fields of their special interests. In
addition, they have made available to schools col—

RECREATION

 

IS THERE A NATURALIST [N THE COMMUNITY? 363

lections and exhibits of well mounted and care-
fully labeled specimens. Their collecting is scien—
tihc and 'controlled. One of the first lessons they
learn is the difference between to see and to have.
Their interest is serious and scientific. Yet, they
insist, it is more fun than any other kind of
recreation program they have tried.

By Any Other Name

Whether it is called recreation or education or
something else is a minor matter. Certainly it is
making an incalculable contribution to their physi-
cal, mental, and spiritual growth. These young
people are not “amusing themselves” or “being
amused.” They are having experiences that build
healthy bodies, contribute to informed minds, and
stretch the soul so that it reaches beyond its
former grasp. They cannot help believing in the
infinite power of God, says their leader, because in
observing the wonders of nature, they see the un-
believable happening continuously right before
their eyes.

Subject fields touched upon cover a wider range
than mere knowledge of flora and fauna. A group,
for example, may wish to examine or photograph
the nest of a humming-bird. They have seen the
bird enter the woods at two different Spots. Know-
ing that they can count on its flying in a straight
line to the nest, all they need to do is note the
angles and determine where the two lines of flight
cross. There they will find the nest. And unex-
pectedly they have learned a lesson in applied
geometry.

Or the day of the hike is warm. Thirst sooner _

or later overtakes the hikers. A babbling stream
invites them to drink. But they have been warned
against contaminated water.

“Is it safe to drink here?” does not bring a
direct answer from the leader.

“Let’s find out,” he suggests. A brief explora-
tion upstream may reveal a pigpen or a cluster of
houses nearby or a dead animal in the stream
itself; or it may show that, since there are no
apparent sources of contamination, the water is
probably safe. Another lesson has been learned.

The children study the type of terrain. They
observe that a north slope produces flora different
from that of the south slope. They learn to spot
things down on a map. They note that there is a
regularity and a plan in nature that can be counted
on from one season to the next. They discover the
importance of accuracy and patience. They learn
new kinds of values.

OCTOBER 1946

“Oh, stop crying, I’ll buy you another,” says
one little girl on a field trip after she has knocked
the other little girl’s wiener into the fire for a
joke. But, though there is money in her pocket,
there is no store nearby. The other child is hungry
now, and she can’t eat money!

“I’ll give you $50 for that specimen,” says the

. son of a wealthy father to a boy who has no money

but is the owner of a fine collection of butterflies.
The specimen in question is a very rare one. It is
worth more than money to its owner. The would-
be purchaser learns, to his surprise, that there are
things Dad’s money will not buy. He has a second
surprise later when the collector has found a dupli-
cate of the rare specimen and insists on giving it to
him for nothing. Difference in wealth and social
status tend to be forgotten as these new values
are realized.

Organization Simple

The organization of the program is informal.
There are no impressive or bewildering schedules.
There are many interest groups that get together
and invite Mr. Westbrook to work with them.
They also go on trips by themselves and bring
back specimens. He is continuously consulted by
telephone’or in person about proposed jaunts or
strange specimens. A walk down the street with
him is punctuated by greetings and stops.

“Hello, Johnny,” a boy calls out. “Remember
the tenth!” That, we are told, is the date of an
annual trip to see the nest of an elusive warbler.

Another boy stops to report that he has I7 tiger
swallow-tails. He wants to pick six of them for
his collection but he will give the others away if
“Johnny” knows someone who wants them.

There is no discourtesy in this use of first name.
It is a kind of symbol of the camaraderie that
characterizes the program. This fraternity knows
no distinction of age or status. Though their bond
is one of common interest in natural phenomena,
nature lovers are sure_ of each other in personal
matters as well.

In the corridor of a school, a small girl stops
beside the display case where, with Mr. West-
brook, we are looking at neatly labeled specimens.

“Remember my grandmother?” she asks. “The
one that made the cake? She broke her back and
had to go to the hospital.”

While he is sending messages to the grand—
mother whose cake he had enjoyed on a hike last
year, a teacher hurries up to him. “My grade is

(Continued on page 394)

What They Say About Recreation

’1 NATION’S ART OBJECTS and its scientific ac-

Ativities are not mere national property; they

are international possessions for the joy

and service of the whole world. The nations hold
them in trust for humanity.”—Havelocle Ellis.

“. . . Most important of all is that the race, the
scrimmage, the eleventh inning, and the third
round are proving grounds where there is no sub-
stitute for strength, speed, and courage. To be
outstanding in any of~ these fields a man or boy
' must have the stuff.”——Jolm Kiercm.

“Community activity gives people a sense of
belonging, and this Spirit is one of the very
H

foundation stones of our democracy. . . . —
Charles Poletti.

“We meet the problem of recreation as one of
the central aspects of the task of the evolution of
the human race.”-——Rabbi-James G. Heller.

“An investment in youth in. providing recrea-
tional facilities and supplying leadership of a
proper type during leisure hours is an insurance
of American democracy.”——Jolm 'Edgar Hoover.

“That which we Speak of as the culture of any
pe0ple springs from the activities of the people in
six fundamental fields of human activity——in
family life, in work, in worship, in education, in
government and in recreation.”-—-George H jelte.

“Boys and girls learn the principles of citizen-
ship in their games just as well, if not more, than
in their schools.”—Raymond Swing. '

“Let us open to all children the gates :of our
forests and uplands, our meadows and mountains.
Let them all learn to swim in our refreshing
waters, wander down America’s trails, and live
in the out-of—doors. '

“Let us have music and dancing and dramatics
and other fine arts such a part of each day’s living
that they become an integral part' of life itself.
Let them so grow into the pattern of daily living

364

that life cannot be considered apart from them
any more than the businessman can be separated
from his daily new5paper, the girl from her in—
terest in pretty clothes, and the child from his

play.”~e-Lula W right.

“Americans know what they want. They want
jobs, homes, and an opportunity to live abun-
dantly.”—-From Recreation—A National Econo-

norm'c Asset.

“Men and women have been scattered from

their homes to new arduous duties in unfamiliar'

surroundings. Their leisure is important and
should _not be wasted, for wholesome recreation
is essential to health and high morale.”—-—Jolm J.

W inant.

“If . , . recreation is to march toward the
richer culture we hope for, will not all of us have
to carry our study'of teamwork a bit further than
we have yet? Not only to give counsel on sub-
jects we really know, but also to accept it on
subjects we haven’t yet mastered. Is there any
other way to growth or progress ?”——V. K. Brown.

“We have an opportunity and an obligation
. . . to insure that all young persons have access
from birth until they are fully grown . . . to
social and. recreational opportunities adequate to
develop self-reliant, socially responsible indivi-
duals.”——Frances Perkins.

“Recreation implies freedom of choice and
action and has the quality of bringing immediate
personal satisfaction. It is sought for its own
sake. Its direct and immediate values are as im-
portant as the indirect benents it confers.”—C.
Gilbert rerm and D. L. Harley, quoted in Free—
dom for Fun, Chicago Recreation Commission.

“I believe that the new social state, whatever
it may be, will not endure, nor be worth while,
unless it has room within for simple play, pure
fun, uncommercial joy, and free, happy, whole—
some recreation.”—Van Dyke in Scribner’s.

RECREATION

Hobby Shops as Creative Play

HIS IS NOT a success story, for
Twho has a scale to measure

man’s inner satisfaction, his
growth in inner balance? Or who can measure in
numbers what we "accomplish in personalities?
Better to say, “Here is a trend.” The war helped
put a theory to wide practical use. Educators and
recreation workers have long talked of “creative
use of leisure time.” But it took the war to make
us realize our very urgent need for creative time-
fillers and morale builders. Military personnel the
world over have applied the balm of creative
hands. Everywhere we read of the special thera-
peutic value of crafts and their successful use in

both military and civilian hospitals. But the spread.

of handcrafts has not been for the armed forces
only. Civilians thrust into war-time communities
have found the-need of creative expression, and
arts and crafts groups have ambled along into Fed-
eral, community, and industrial housing programs.
It is our opinion these war-born programs are
worth extending beyond “the duration and six
months” into permanent community planning. No
one who has felt the surge of -power, the keen
thrill of being able to put a thought effectively into
form will ever doubt the aesthetic value of creative
play.

Of the several arts and crafts groups with which
I have been privileged to work during the last few
years, each has been experimental, each has been
different—especially in physical set-up, personali-
ties, ages, and adaptabilities of participants. Yet
certain features seem to stand out in all groups,
and it is these similarities upon which I wish to
dwell, for I believe they are basic to the building
of other such successful groups.

A “Class” That’s Not a Class

Although each club project grew out of a small
group of interested people who named‘ themselves
Sketch Class or Charcoal Class, it was almost im-
mediately apparent that any resemblance to the
traditional class lay in name only, and only for the
first few lessons could a single class model for all
students be used successfully. There were too
many individual differences in ability, interest and
personality. These people were adults, in the
habit of making their own choices. Thus individ-
ual work very early became a dominant concern.

OCTOBER 1946

By LAVELLE ROSSELOT
Westerville. Ohio

Nor could we often establish
regular enrollment, such as most

class work depends upon. De—
mands in adult living were many and varied and
who were we to say, “You can’t work on this to—
night because you didn’t start with us—or because
you don’t have the background”? Serving all who
came, as we felt we should, meant giving that
background over and over for'each newcomer.
Further difficulties in class procedure lay in the
average short interest span. If these adults, coming
at will to a hobby shop to spend several pleasant
hours, had been consumed by a burning desire to
become artists they would have, somehow or other, .
managed to get technical art training. We have
had in three years time two such individuals who,
having discovered themselves, have forged ahead.
We have not set up our groups for the two but
for the many who may wish to participate. The
two are merely an added gratifiation. Most of the
people who dropped in had only a mild interest, a
yearning, a need to bolster their ego by doing

‘ something out of the ordinary. In this adult, world

where we were often battling years of recreational
stagnation we had to hold this casual interest until
a real thirst could be developed. Therefore there
could be no long, detailed wOrk on teaching funda-
mentals. Instead, most activities had to be those
which could show immediate results or could in-
sure such progress as to make a return engage-
ment imperative.

After the original group had progressed through
half a dozen lessons, one or two individuals might
have developed enough interest and ability to see
the possibilities of continued similar work, but the
remainder of the original group had sufficient
mastery for their own needs and were anxious to
move on to another activity or another medium.
In the meantime new people would invariably
drop in too far behind the original group to be
welded with them into a class. Thus the club
would grow and develop by adding new members,
each a separate, individual entity demanding more
and more media to conquer until, in a very short
time, there were twenty different peOple doing
twenty different things.

The exhausting task of keeping up with so much
variety brought me to repeated analysis of class
techniques. A helpful supervisor suggested allot-

365

366 HOBBY SHOPS AS CREATIVE PLAY

ting certain hours for certain ac-
tivities. For example, here is a
Sunday schedule:

2-4 P. M. Art (charcoal, pastel, water-

color, oils, costume design, and
advertising art)

4-6 P.M. Crafts (ceramics, textile
painting, wood working, block
prints, spatter prints, leather,
photo tinting, and a dozen others)

7-9 P.M. Weaving as a separate craft,
since it was a larger working
group than any other, requiring
much individual attention in
threading.

It was a beautiful theory. But
Jenny worked swing and had to
leave at three, so couldn’t she come
in right after lunch? Edna had a date for the
show at four. Why couldn’t she work on her
bookcase at two? She’d not bother anyone! Others
just from personal inclination preferred coming
in at this hour or that, regardless of class time.

Some one will suggest we need to teach these
people respect for time and the convenience of
others. . But they are adults on their free time, and
they will not be regimented! They do not come to
school, they come for creative play. This brings
us, I believe, face to face with our philosophy sup—
porting such an activity.

Project Values

In creative play we are chiefly concerned with
therapeutic (or to be less’technical—tonic) and
social values, NOT economic ones. Very frankly
we must admit that in almost every case we are
merely giving an introduction to various skills. In
so doing, we are broadening appreciation, impart-
ing new outlooks. Because these people are com—
ing for personal pleasure, not profit, they demand
that results be immediate. All learning other than

.basic instruction in use of equipment and materials.

must be incidental. Once in a great while you
will run across an individual who merely needs
awakening, and this one will give you unlimited
satisfaction. This person you can lead into deeper
study, and take pleasure in his growth. Basically,
however, a workshop must remain a place for in—
troduction to skills, a place for practice, a place to
“make things” and a place where the worker can
learn to entertain himself and others, and that
creatively. In other words, it must be a place
where he can help himself to fun.

I have said that we must be chiefly concerned

 

with tonic and social values. The release from
,tensions, the feeling of power and accomplishment,
the value from seeing, thinking, and reaching for
beauty are not the only results obtained from a
workshop. The very fact that our people felt
welcome to wander in and out at will, whenever
the shop was open, allowed for freedom and whole-
some fraternizing. It was not only good for the
group enrollment but good for group morale.
Friends stopped to admire. Some stayed to play.
The regular shiop participants also responded to
this informality, and soon fell into the habit of
Sunday night suppers, which became as much of i
an institution as the actual shop activities. New
acquaintances were made on the basis of mutual
interests “and often people who liked the friendly
atmosphere of the shop but were too timid to
venture into the creative field could be put to
work at small, useful jobs requiring little skill—
such as checking' out equipment, filling plaster
molds, mounting patterns and designs, helping
newcomers get introduced to the shop and its
workers. '

There are several shop activities which have had
more universal appeal than others. This may be
due to the fact that most of our participants were
women. Textile weaving has been by far the most
popular activity, because exceedingly gratifying
amateur results were obtained with much less skill<
than is required in other media. Oil painting, for q;
the picture-minded, was the ultimate, and any ses—
sion gave proof that this group threw themselves
into their art—from elbow to elbow, and some-
times behind the ears! Textile painting with sten-
cils, and spatter printing both proved especially
effective for those who needed to carry away a‘i

RECREATION

 

HOBBY SHOPS AS CREATIVEPLAY 367

finished product from the first lesson. Plastics,
too, gave quick results if the project undertaken
Was a simple one. Plastics, however, had the added
attraction of offering interesting possibilities to
the ingenious worker with real creative interest.

Considering Equipment

Since one of our aims is to provide skills and
techniques for both present and future self-enter-
tainment, materials used in instruction should be
on the easily available list. It is of little value to
teach extensively the'use of air-brush when most
of our people will be able to afford only tempera
and a good camel’s hair brush. All the beautiful
clay banks and formulae in the world are of no
value where no kiln is available. But there are
clays that can now be fired at ordinary kitchen
Oven temperatures, and glazes to delight the heart

of any dabbler.

The cost of equipment is of paramount interest
also to the average community considering the de-
velopment of hobby shops. Building as you go is,
of course, the safest and wisest plan. I am con-
tinually amazed at what can be done with very
little. Material for our woodworking department

came mostly from a scrap lumber pile, with much I

of the wood having been previously used. In this
way w: got seasoned lumber when there was no
lumber available on the market. Arm' muscles
took the place of power saws, and helpful hands
were always ready where the proper vice was miss-
ing. In other crafts, too, makeshifts proved‘good
recreation aids. We even heated and molded plas-
tics on a hot plate or in boiling water where no
oven was available. Quite often ingenious hobby-
ists dared, in-the absence of appropriate equipment
or materials, to 'try something new. When the
experiment proved successful, you never. beheld a
more jubilant crew. Something more had been
added than just instruction in the use of fine ma-
terials. We had adventured as a group—together.

Perhaps our one biggest luxury in equipment
has been the loom. But interest in weaving and a
dawning appreciation of cloth itself has, I believe,
fully repaid any initial cost. Yet here, too, we find
now on the market practical eight or ten inch
looms within reach of any purse.

Besides being friend, guide and “enthusiasm
dispenser,” a shop director must be willing to be
a “one-woman-shopping service.” Though inge-
nuity can often profitably replace fancy-priced
equipment, basic equipment and materials must be

OCTOBER 1946

on hand when needed, and in almost every case
this responsibility must be the instructor’s. It is a
very rare individual who,_at the end of a working
day, will battle the five o’clock rush hour to pur-
chase one huck towel or one-half yard stiffening
for a hand bag. Most pe0ple just won’t bother.
It’s hard on that spark of enthusiasm, too, to be
all set in your mind for a specific activity, only to
find some vital material is not on hand. The great-
est error any group leader can fall into, is to have
a first meeting to plan a project and have nothing
concrete on hand with which actually to begin
work. In order to avoid these deadly lulls we
developed an “I need” sign-up system. Each hob-
byist states her needs in writing a week in advance,
and adds her signature and address. This last is
to insure our not getting stuck with supplies which
someone might order and then not show up to
claim. Such a thing does happen, of course, but
surprisingly seldom, especially with the above pre-
'caution. '

Shopping for three workshops requires one or
two full half days each week, but the boost in
enthusiasm and participation is well worth the
trouble. Orders are as varied as the weather. For
example:

% yard white material for summer purse
1 tube of black plastic belt buckle #384

2 yards material to stencil for Idirndule (any light
color but yellow)

3 huck towels (largest size available)
turpentine for oil painting

Often the buying was done with fingers crossed,
but seldom was there a complaint from the hobby-
ists. They took what they could get. If huck
towels came only in 16% cent size, very well, they
made finger-tip and guest towels. We developed
awareness of war and postwar possibilities and
limitations and, though sh0pping often took the
form of a scavenger hunt,- it was never an un-
pleasant task because it was fully appreciated and

netted large returns.

Large groups with individual demands necessi-
tated all the available teaching short cuts possible.
Advanced students helped beginners and lifted
from the instructor the burden of countless little
questions. Volunteer leaders kept shop 011 days
when the instructor must be with another group.

Ideas and designs of all kinds, patterns, greeting
cards were collected into scrapbooks which could
be put into the students’ hands and thereby elimi-
nate long minutes of teacher-time in individual

(Continued on page 395)

Texarkana U. S. A.

tion began operation at city

recreation centers the week
of June 17. This is news for any
city. In this unusual locality it should draw par—
ticular attention. i

Texarkana is located on the State line of Ar—
kansas and Texas, with approximately half of the
population living in each State. There are two
separate City Governments—with a Mayor and
Aldermen in each—that function in accordance
With the charters granted them by their respective
States.

Within this government structure is the Tex-
arkana Park Commission, which is made up of
five members from each side of the State line. The
Commission administers the Public Recreation
Department as a service unit for the entire city:
The Commission is headed by two co-chairmen
who have worked cooperatively for the establish—
ment of the Department since their appointment
by their respective mayors in January 1946.

The second week in June the formal opening
ceremonies for the
summer recrea-
tion program were
held at the State
line with the two
mayors using the
symbolic “Giant
Scissors of Co-
operation” to cut
t he f1 r st  u mp
ropes and lariats
to be used on the
5 even summer
playgrounds. The
scissors used were
made as an .arts
and crafts project
and were painted
in the colors of
the two States.

ANEW DEPARTMENT of Recrea-

City of Co-
operation

Texarkana is
truly the City of
Cooperation.

368

\

By HUGH T. HENRY

Superintendent
Texarkana Park Commission

Seventy odd years ago the town
was established. Little thought was
given then to the State line, but as
the city grew and the State and
county laws, each affecting half of the city
became more complex the problems of govern-
ment and administration grew. Naturally com-
plications arose and made difhcult situations for
the governing bodies to cope with, but Texarkana
and its people were too strong to let these spoil
their determination to build a metropolitan city,
achieved almost entirely through cooperation.
Here in this day of uncertainty of developments
in world and national affairs the officials and citi—
zens of this city have launched out on a new
venture together, one of service to the community

I -——a public recreation department under the direc-

tion of a joint commission.

Attendance has been above average for a new
program at the five full-time centers and two Fed-
eral Housing Authority playgrounds where Rec-
reation Department leaders are assigned part-time.

(Continued on page 398)

 

. RECREATION

A Navy 5.0.5

URING THE EARLY part of
March 1946, the 19th Naval
Fleet Welfare and Recrea-

tion officers were faced with the
task of providing recreation for
4,000 of their Naval personnel
each evening during the week. .
,The officers of theolgth Fleet met with the
Superintendent and Athletic Supervisor of Ta—
coma’s Recreation Department. At this meeting
the officers presented their problem—no indoor
and outdoor athletic and recreation facilities at
their Naval base with which to carry on a good
and appealing program. In their need for advice
and help they had come to the Recreation Commis-
sion for suggestions and assistance.

A survey was made of the recreation facilities
in Tacoma and the surrounding area which could
be made available to the Navy men. Besides these
facilities the additional use of one junior high
school gymnasium was procured for the Navy,
with the result that a Naval Fleet basketball tour-
nament was held with two evening games each

week. Cooperative activities and tournament de-'

tails were planned and supervised by the Athletic
Supervisor of the Recreation Commission.

The roster 'of teams was made up from 12 dif-
ferent ships, and each team was requested to
submit the name of one qualified referee to the
' Berthing Area Welfare and Recreation office. In
addition each team provided one individual at each
of its scheduled games to act as either timekeeper
or scorekeeper. The program was in force from
February I946 through August 1946.

Rounding the Program '

In order to have a well-rounded program other
facilities throughout the city were investigated, and
the following recreational channels were offered to
all Navy personnel.

Through the courtesy of the War Athletic Com-
mission of Tacoma, organized groups of sailors
may enjoy a day of fishing at the Commission’s
expense. In Tacoma, salmon is king of sports, and
at Pt. Defiance Park on Puget Sound, boats and
fishing gear may be obtained. For the organized
groups taking advantage of this sport an officer
or a petty officer is in charge. The parties do not

OCTOBER 1946

By ARTHUR E. SPENCER
Supervisor of Athletics

and AGNES DE PUY SMITH

Supervisor of Centers
Recreation Commission
Tacoma. Washington

exceed 20 in number because of
limited equipment.

Help has also been given in
organizing ice skating parties
which are held at a nearby ice
arena, 15 miles from the heart
of the city.

At the Metropolitan Park District’s Pt. Defiance
Park there are riding horses—with both English
and eastern style equipment available to Naval
personnel at low cost.

Softball season opened early in April for the
19th Fleet, with two leagues of eight teams each,

.the American and the National. It was necessary

to limit each ship to only one team because of the
lack of playing fields in Tacoma and the 126 other
softball teams in the city. Through the Recreation
Commission eight fields were made available on
Tuesdays and Fridays.

The Navy 'may use all public tennis courts. The
Recreation Commission was unable to provide
equipment, but the courts are free.

At the South Tacoma Community Center, a
former USO building, there is instruction in square
dancing every Tuesday night. On the second Wed-
nesday of each month old-fashioned dances are
held with an able instructor. Special parties are
planned from time to time, and invitations are sent
to the armed forces. I

Opportunities to participate free of charge in
adult activities in school buildings at night are
offered. These programs include arts and crafts,
woodshop, modern and square dancing.

The Tacoma Ski Club, an activity of the Recre-
ation Commission, arranges for an experienced
skier to accompany Naval personnel and to in-
struct the beginners at Mt. Ranier. The Ski Club
provides transportation on Sundays. Each weekly
trek to the snow line is limited to 20 skiers and the
trip is always looked forward to.

The. northwest is an out-of-door playground
most of the year. Water—fresh and salt, trees,
golf courses, fishing streams, skating and dancing,
and a cooperative welcome to all newcomers—espe-
cially members of the armed forces—is Tacoma’s
answer to the Navy's call for help. Participation
in these open air activities plus other forms of rec-

( C outiime'd on page 398)

369

in

l .

z’ I

I
I

House of Make Believe}

the second hand of the clock sweeps around

to 9:30. In a few seconds the theme music
.comes “out and under,” as they say in radio'par-
lance. Players with scripts in hand stand by three
microphones. The director, earphones on his head,
.tenses an upraised hand’, then brings it down
smartly. The show is on! Whatever tension per-
vades the studio escapes the listening audience to
whom the proceedings come smoothly—as though
effortless.

Radio programs go on like this all day, but the

AHUSH ENVELOPES the broadcasting room as

. one we refer to has as its cast amateurs many of
. whom are going on the air for the first time. And

these amateurs—so small, the mikes haVe to be
lowered nearly as far as they will go—are children
from a neighborhood playground. The show is
House of Make Believe; the station, KFSD in
San Diego; the sponsor, none but the San Diego
Playground and Recreation Department on sus-
taining program.

It sounds like an impossible task to gather up
a band of youngsters off the ball diamond and turn
out a first—class radio show, but the San Diego
Recreation Department does this weekly. What
accounts for its success is the fact that the pro—
gram strives first and foremost to offer entertain-
ment to the listening audience. This, in turn,
makes the youngsters proud of their show and
stimulates them to dig in and work during re-
hearsals conducted at the playground. It brings,
too, favorable comment from the listening audi-
ence and influences everyone connected with H ouse
of M alee Believe to be at his professional best.

Advantages of the Show

The advantages from a recreation standpoint are
obvious. Rehearsals constitute the best type of dra-
matic training. Mastery of the script motivates a
respect for pronunciation, enunciation, comprehen-
sion of reading matter that young people do not

_ always get in school. Team play and cooperative

planning are necesssary concomitants. And what
fun it is—whether Johnnie Jones is a performer
on this real, live radio program going over the air,
or whether he’s listening in on his radio to friends
from another playground!

{370

San Diego Playgrounds on the Air

There is another excellent advantage frOm the
standpoint of the Department and the people of San
Diego. The radio broadcast keeps a tab on recre-
ation projects and activities throughout the year
and affords an opportunity to celebrate holidays
and take note of seasonal celebrations. Recreation
facilities are brought to the attention of the listen-
ers, many of whom in San Diego are visitors or
newcomers and are not acquainted with the city’s
many available sources of fun and relaxation. Ath-
letic events are followed through announcements
or on quizzes during variety programs. Playettes

' are excellent media for following the traditions and

festivities of the year. During National Book
Week a book is dramatized each year. For Na-
tional Music Week an all musical show is pro-
duced.
Range of Interest

The shows are made entertaining by' the very
fact that local children are putting them on and
doing their very best to make them good. There
is fairly consistent alternation between variety
shows with humorous dialogue, musical numbers
by a teen-age band, individual singers and instru-

. mentalists and playettes which run through the

entire half hour and portray folklore, traditions,
adventure, history or situation comedy. One most
valuable factor has been a writer who can turn out
original scripts, saving the payment of royalties by
the Department and enabling us to use local ma-
terials. The shows are definitely slanted for chil-
dren or teen-agers, as attested by- such titles to
playettes as Rina, the Lazy Fairy and V on John-
son Slept H ere. However, their appeal seems to
have equal force with the adult audience.

Each playground where a radio group has been
organized has its turn to put on a show. The
youngsters are given two weeks to prepare, then
they must go on without any rehearsal in the
studio. The time of the show, always a very im-
portant item, is 9:30 A. M. Saturday when young
people are able both to broadcast and listen undis-
turbed to the radio. Visitors are allowed at the
show, with the result that the studio is usually

filled with parents, brothers, sisters and friends of
the performers.

(Continued on page 395)

RECREATION

-west, the centuries-old waltzes and

The Old-Time Dance Festival

'SPOKANE has gone all out for the By S' 6' WITTER

Recreation Director
Spokane, Washington

old-time dance. The heritage

r of the old pioneers was rediscov—

ered on Saturday night, May 4, at the

State Armory’Drill Hall in an Old-Time Dance

Festival planned by the Recreation Director and
his three capable dance instructors.

The interest in the old-time dance classes con—
ducted at three centers by the Recreation Division
of the Park Department prompted .us to schedule
the all-city festival. We got in touch with all
known old-time dance groups in Spokane and the
surrounding Inland Empire region and their en-
thusiastic response was encouraging. We thought
we might have a p055ible attendance of 1,000 peo-
ple. Our estimate was slightly off.'
We missed it by 3,000! '

The square dances of the old

folk dances of other nations Were ‘
the attraction that drew an esti-
mated 4,000 to the first Inland
Empire Old-Time Dance Festival.
The sponsors would have been
pleased with an attendance of 1,000,
but by the time dancing started
parking space was at a premium for
blocks around, the balconies were
filled with spectators and the crowd
downstairs overflowed onto the
sidewalk.

Color was the ‘keynote of the
festival, with blue-jeaned cowboys
swinging their dirndle-skirted
ladies in the patterns of the square
dance and folk-costumed dancers,
representing every nation, n'iin-
gling in the crowd. Long, full
bright-colored skirts whirled in the
graceful measures of the waltz,
making the scene viewed from the
balcony like a kaleidoscope.

The piCturesque greeted the ear
as well, in the reminiscent square
dance calls—“You swing yours, I’ll
swing mine; I’ll swing my gal any
old time,” and “Swing the gal
across the hall, and now the one
you call your own.”

OCTOBER 1946

Bobby—soxers were in as much evi-
dence as the older generation, and old
and young alike proved the entertain-
ment value of this type of festival.

The age span represented. was brought out
clearly with the introduction of the oldest and
youngestdancer. A gentleman of 82 from Lewis-
town, Montana, had just finished a lively schot-
tische when called to the platform. A pigtailed
eight-year-old was the youngest addict. The
Washington State College Physical Education de—
partment delegation and the Pullman Square and
Round Club divided honors as clubs coming the
greatest distance to attend. The fourteen girls from

(Continued on page 393)

 

Friendly Groups ,
q of Well-Planned Neighborhoods

Chicago Develops Ideas Worth Emulafing

, HE PRIDE AND ENERGY which have built a big
Tand friendly city may now make possible the
redevelopment of Chicago into an even more
friendly city, made up of attractive, modern “small
towns” which will combine the economic, social,
and .cultural advantages of the large metropolis
with most of the desirable features of quiet, small-
city life. .

That is the prediction of A. H. Mellinger, Chair-
man of the Chicago Plan Commission, who has
announced that the Commission has completed
preliminary studies which indicate that, when the
major phases of the Comprehensive City Plan

have been realized, Chicago will be made up of -

fifty-nine well-defined and integrated communities.

“The Commission’s plans for making Chicago a
better place in which to live and work (he said)
are focused on the local areas in which people live

—their neighborhoodsand their communities. The .

city plan recognizes these as the basic units of a
city, just as the family is the basic unit of society.
Accordingly, the studies of the Commission sug-
gest an arrangement of residential areas which
will ultimately provide families in every part of
the city with facilities for pleasant, friendly com-
munity life comparable to that of the'better sub-
urbs. The units are Ismall enough to cause people
to have a feeling of pride in their community and
to take.a more active part in the neighborhood and
community affairs. '

Expressways, Waterways, Parks and Schools

“The communities of this future city will ulti-
mately range in population from 45,000 to 90,000
with an average of approximately 55,000. They
will be separated from each other by a great sys-
tem of expressways, by a iixed railroad and indus—
trial pattern, by waterways, and wherever feasible
by open areas commonly known as buffer parks,
which can be used for various recreational pur-
poses. It is contended that each community should
ultimately be the service area for a high school and
a community park and 'playiield. To this end the
Commission has made known the close coopera—
tion it has received from the Board of Education,
whose" officials have evidenced a willingness to

372

have the future school district pattern conform to
the planned community areas.

“The fifty-nine communities are further divided
into 128 sub—communities for the purpose of dis-
tributing park and playfield areas to accommodate
more adequately the recreational desires of all age
groups. These recreation facilities are planned at
convenient locations with a service range gov-
erned by reasonable walking distances from the
homes of all families within the sub-communities.
In this phase of its planning program the Com-
mission commends highly the assistance and aid
it has received from the officials of the Chicago
Park District, who have evidenced their approval
of the community divisions by proposing to ac-
quire new community park and playiield space in
accordance with the Plan Commission’s proposals
wherever it is physically and economically possible
at this time.

“Each of the communities embraces from four_
to twelve neighborhoods, and these, in total, aggre-
gate 559 throughout the city. The neighborhoods
are typically one-quarter square mile in area in the
more intensely occupied sections of the city, and
somewhat larger in the less populous districts.

“The typical neighborhood would be served by
an elementary school located near the center and
serving the population of 4,000 to 12,000 and would
be virtually a self-contained unit providing stores
and other facilities necessary for everyday activi-
ties, with the exception of employment.”

By reason of these sharply .defined physical
boundaries and the facilities within them, Mr. Mel-
linger pointed out, each neighborhood would take
on an individual identity and character and, to-
gether with several contiguous neighborhoods,
would make up the community which corresponds
to a medium-sized town or small city. Each of
these communities is planned to provide the more
extensive facilities such as churches, parochial
schools, theaters, “shopping centers, hospital and
health services, and other public welfare services.

Vacant Land and Blighted Areas
The Plan Commission Chairman emphasized the

(Continued on page 392)
RECREATION

 

.'A City Buys “a Park

STRUGGLE HAS BEEN IN PROGRESS in New Jer-
A sey Since 1792. The people of Paterson have
been—more or less——-for all those years at
I IOddS with the Society for the Establishment of
Useful Manufactures, chartered in I792 to encour—
age manufactures in the United States and gen-
erally known as the S.U.M. The object of the
struggle was the site known as Passaic Falls. The
question was whether the pe0ple of Paterson or
the S.U.M. had the right to the use of the land
and the water. Should the Falls be a public park
for the use and enjoyment of the people forever
or should it rather be used by the company to turn
the wheels of their cotton mills?

The question was decided in 1945 in favor of
the people of Paterson. On January I, 1946 the
city’s Mayor announced that Passaic Falls would
become a public park. The city authorities pur—

‘ I

chased the charter and properties of S.U.M. For
the sum of $800,000 the City of Paterson bought
out the company and added to its public holdings
the Great Falls of the Passaic River and a large
block of property above ahd below them.

Hardly a voice was raised "in protest when the
citizens registered their opinion of the transaction
in a municipal election. They are looking forward
now to the time when the new park will be ready
for the use of all the citizens of Paterson—present
and future. For when the Mayor of Paterson made
the simple announcement of his intention to build
a public park at Passaic Falls he also proclaimed
victory for the people in the long, long struggle to
recapture a line scenic beauty spot for themselves
and their descendants. Now, at last, the reign of
Special privilege is ended and the Falls are restored
to their rightful owners, the citizens of Paterson.

 

OCTOBER 1946

_ Recreation
An Essential Community Service

LATFORM prepared by representatives of:
The American Association for Health,‘ Physi-

cal Education and Recreation,
The American Association for the Study of Group
W'ork,‘and
The Society of Recreation Workers of America.

Recently this platform has been adopted by the
American Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation and the Society of Recrea-
tion W'orkers of America during their respective

.Annual Conferences.

Preamble

Recreation is a basic need for living in a demo-_

cratic society. It may be an organized or a spon-
taneous activity under governmental, voluntary or
private auspices. For the individual recreation may
be any wholesome leisure experience engaged in

solely for the satisfaction derived therefrom. It.

includes games and sports, camping, hiking, danc-
ing, picnics, discussion groups, drama, music, arts
and crafts and other activities of personal choice.
Recreation may be an individual hobby or an ex-
perience shared with others. It is man’s principal
opportunity for enrichment of living.

The present mechanized age and its prospect of
increased leisure demands comprehensive planning
for recreation. In every community there should
be a citizens’ recreation council representing. all
interested groups and, in addition, a board or com-
mission oflicially responsible for direction of a
tan-supported public recreation program. As part
of the complete community plan the voluntary and
private agencies can provide significant opportuni-
ties for individual and group recreation.

“The modern community supports education,
health, recreation, welfare and .related services as
essential to the individual and society. The pro-
vision of these services is a responsibility of the
entire community including public, voluntary, and

private agencies.

I. A program of recreation should be provided
in every community—rural and urban, and for'all

people—children, youth and adults.

2. Opportunities and programs for recreation
should be available 12 months of the year.

374

3. The program of recreation should be planned
to meet the interests and needs of individuals and

groups.

4. Education for the “worthy use of leisure” in
homes, schools and other community institutions is

essential.

5. Community planning for leisure requires (:0-
operative action of public and voluntary agencies
including civic, patriotic, religious, social and other
groups which have recreation interests and re-
sources.

6. A recreation plan for the community should
result in the fullest use of- all resources and be
integrated with long-range planning for all other
community services.

7. Federal, State and local agencies should cor-

relate, wherever possible, their plans for the plan—
ning, acquisition and use of recreation facilities.

8. Recreation facilities, public and private,

.should be planned on a neighborhood, district and

regional basis to provide the maximum opportuni-
ties and services for all age groups.

9. Local planning boards, recreation commis-
sions, boards of education and park boards should
cooperate in long-range planning for the acquisi-
tion, development and use of recreation facilities.

IO. Schools should serve, as adequately as pos—
sible, the education—recreation needs of pupils and
be planned so that they will be efficient centers for
community use.

II. Parks should be planned, wherever possi-
ble, to include facilities for sports, games and
other recreation activities which are suitable for
children, youth and adults.

I2. Recreation personnel should have profes-
sional training and personal qualifications suited
to their specific services.

I3. Civil service and/or state certification pro-
cedures should be adopted to insure the employ-

ment of professionally trained and qualified per— “i?

sonnel in public recreation programs.

I4. Each agency, organization or group which
has recreation functions and facilities should em-
ploy adequate staffs of qualified personnel to meet
its share of the community needs.

(Continued on page 393)
RECREATION

f

l

Creative Energy ls Ageless*

HE NEW YORK TIMES for

April 3, 1946 carried a

modest report of a one—
day conference on recreation
for older persons—a conference which, though it
did not bulk large in the day’s news, may yet,
within the scope of its limitations, prove historical.
Developments from this meeting will in time
affect the lives of 10,000,000 people 65 years
of age or over, the lives of many more millions
of their relatives and friends and, inevitably, the
character of our culture. For no civilization can
be whole with 10,000,000 idle persons in its midst,
even,if these are the group we call the aged.

The idleness we speak of is not mere com—
mercial unemployment. It is the more total idle—
ness which includes loneliness, a sense of rejection
and of useless living.

Physically, socially, emotionally, many older
persons have become burdens to themselves, their
relatives, the crowded city, the clinics, and the too
few institutions where they apply in desperation
for custodial care. And the problems of institu-
tions take on the fantastic nature of Alice’s furious
race _to get nowhere. For with each admission of
an older person whose basic difficulty is a feeling
of insecurity, incompetence and rejection, there
is less room for those who actually need custodial
care.

Recent studies of old age are changing many
of our commonly accepted concepts. Professor
Alexander A. Bogomolets declares in his book,
Prolongation of Life, that a life span of 50 to 80
years is the result of abnormal conditions, not of
a time limit set by nature. He insists that life can
be extended to 12 5-150 years, and that premature
old age is caused by social conditions, by cold,
hunger and poverty, which weaken the human
‘organism. He points to the rapidly increasing
older population in America as evidence of the
fact that people live longer in an environment

where there is less cold, hunger and poverty. The,

average age of death in 1800 was 35 {in 1890, it
was 43; in 1935, 59 for males and 63 for females.
Today it is even higher. The proportion of older
people has increased 35 percent in the last 20
years. In New York City it has increased 57

 

* Reprinted with permission from Better Times, May 10. 1946.

OCTOBER 1946

By HARRY A. LEVINE
Director and Founder, Hodson Center

New York. N. Y.

percent. There were half a
million people of 65 and over
in New York City in 1940.

Recent discoveries contra-
dlCt the common thinking that age is essentially a

matter of chronology, and that old age is a period
of uselessness, whose problems can be shrugged
away with the statement that the older person has
lived his life. It is no longer possible for us to
dismiss the illnesses of older people as a natural
and inevitable part of being old. Such generaliza-
tions are a confusion of the symptoms of chronic
illness, which is found equally in the younger
group, with the more natural manifestations of
old age. Actually many of these illnesses can be
controlled on an individual basis. Nor can we any
longer assume that mental deterioration, any more
than physical disability, is characteristic of old
age. The truth is, too often, that the older person
has been thoughtlessly rejected as too old to do
any useful work, to learn, or to participate in the
life around him, and that these experiences have

helped to destroy his confidence, alertness and
abilities.

Beyond Physical Needs

The community has very largely accepted its
responsibility for the physical welfare of the older
person. However, the need for activity that will
give him a feeling of adequacy and accomplish—
ment, of usefulness and belonging; the need for
companionship, recreation and understanding;
those things that tend to preserve the personality,
have been given very little consideration.

The older‘person comes to us with varying
needs, talents, backgrounds and energies. Usually
he has a lessening of physical energy; a separa-
tion, physical and emotional, from family and
friends; and a loss of occupation. These changes
need not be confusing or destructive. Our reSpon-
sibility as social workers is to recognize that they
do not affect all older people in the same way
and to accept our preventive and developmental
task. We need to know that complete senility is
rare. We need to speak not of an old person but
of an older person. We need to know that a good
many of the physical inadequacies of the-older
person are caused by neglect of his physical and

'375

376 CREATIVE ENERGY IS AGELESS

mental well-being. Fear of aging rather than
aging itself frequently causes loss in mental and
physical function. Creative energy is ageless. Can
we, as social workers, be effective in sharing our
understanding with the older person or must we
let ourselves be overwhelmed by the difficulties?

On the positive side, a lifetime of experience,
understanding and skills are ours to channel into
programs that will be meaningful and important.
The means of channelization are basic and known
to all of us. Give the older person something
to do that has meaning for him and we
give him back some of his inner 'dignity.
Give him an opportunity to express his old skills
or to learn new ones and we'return to him some
of his feeling of adequacy. Let him participate in
a program of cultural activity or in a study pro-
gram where he will follow some latent interest,
whether it be the English language or the practice
of arts and crafts, and we will be vitalizing his
love of living and his joy in accomplishment. Use
him in community projects and he has again a
healthy sense of belonging in the world.

Whose Responsibility?

An experiment undertaken recently in a local
welfare center is illustrative. Our staff had long
realized that they were being used by the older
people to meet a desperate need for relationship.
Equally apparent was the waste of human per-
sonality, expressed sometimes in resentful devices
for sympathy and attention, at other times in an
acceptance of the rejection by society and a con-
sequent gradual withdrawal. We decided to try
to meet the needs of these people in a more con-
structive way.

Now, who is to do it? The purpose of the
State is the elevation of human life. The ac-
ceptance by the State of this responsibility is an

historical evolution. Step by step society has"

taken to itself the responsibility for public health,
public education, public welfare, provision for the
care of the defective, the aged, the dependent and
the unemployed and, in the area of recreation, the
provision of free parks, playgrounds, libraries,
concerts and museums. More and more with the
higher development of our civilization, the func-
tion of the .State has come to include education in
the healthful use of leisure time and the pro-
vision of means for such use.

Recreation for the older person is peculiarly a
function of democratic society. In his lifetime the
older person has made his contribution. He has

given us his energies, his skills and his children.
We owe him the possibility of living his later
years without unnecessary frustration and rejec-
tion. We owe him the opportunity to prolong his
usefulness. We owe him the chances to con-
tribute his energies, his experience, and his
wisdom to the life around him.

It is this debt we are meeting when we recom-
mend the establishment of recreation centers for
older people as a public responsibility. Com-
paratively little money is needed. We have been
able to achieve a great deal in a very short time in
the Hodson Center with only one worker and
additional part-time teachers on a minimum
budget, of which one of the largest items is the
provision for coffee, tea and cake every afternoon.
We believe that housing projects should provide
space for centers for older people, and that the
Department of Welfare should cooperate by pro-
viding full—time workers for the centers.

The community can participate by developing
interested boards of directors who can raise the

' additional funds necessary to develop a full pro-

gram. Among the most effective and interested
agencies in the city have been the regional
councils _of social agencies. The Sara Clapp
Council of Social Agencies and the Yorkville
Civic Council have a combined committee plan-
ning the development of a center on the East Side.
The Staten Island and the Chelsea Clinton Council
is working on the ‘ West Side. The National
Council of Jewish Women is developing a pro-
gram of its own amdng its membership. They
have opened a beautiful center at 2828 Broadway
and another in White Plains—both non-sectarian.

Many neighborhood settlements have developed

.programs for the older person. Bronx Home

has, of course, been outstanding in that respect,
but Hartley House, Union Settlement, Hudson
Guild, Greenwich, House, Henry Street Settle-
men't, Lenox Hill, Recreation Rooms and Colony
House have all been working with programs of
clubs for older people. Then there is the Com-
munity Club in Harlem, and the “L” Club on
34th Street, both of which limit their membership
to women. Several churches are lending their
premises for activities for older persons. While“
these clubs are a very important development, all
well-planned system of day care centers for the

older person, as recommended by ,Welfare Com-

missioner Edward E. Rhatigan, in his talk at the 
conference on recreation for the aged, is a more I

(Continued on page 398) 

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY

MARTINSVILLE, V I‘R—
GINIA announces that
its Church Street Park
is getting its “face lifted.” One of the most at-
tractive' features in this park is the rustic shelter
which was completed last fall and enjoys year-
round use by industrial groups. Completed this
spring are nature trails of varying lengths. The
main trail is ten miles long and shorter walks are
also provided. Wayside. seats have been provided
and rustic markers are being planned. Other pro-
posed improvements include a council ring, an
outdoor oven, an all-weather surfaced area for
sports and games.

Rustic Park

THERE is a special kind
of camp in Liberty-
ville, Illinois—-—a camp
run by the St. Sava Monastery for Serbian
children. Boys and girls come from cities in eight
states to the monastery grounds. Here they spend
three weeks in the out-of-doors, gaining in body
and mind and spirit, having the kind of fun and
the kind of experience that they have missed in
their city lives. An interesting sidelight and a
tribute to the project was the fact that younger
brothers and sisters coming to visit campers
quietly refused to go home! '

Camp for Serbians

THE WAR MEMORIAL
YOUTH CENTER opened
. its doors in Coral
Gables, Florida on December 7, 1945'. By F ebr.u-
ary, 1946 its membership roster held 200 names.
In April the number had increased to 750. Young—
sters of all ages found living more interesting and
delinquency less fascinating because of the rec-
reation facilities that the Center offered. Now the
small white building and its surrounding baseball
diamonds, tennis courts and playgrounds—not to
mention a concrete patio whose smooth floor pro-

For Young and Old

vides space for many activities from tap dancing -

t to roller skating—is becoming a recreation home
for adults in the community. Space is at a
premium just now, so the Center is more than a
little crowded. But the whole community is look—
ing forward to the time when a drive for more
funds will result in the wherewithal to carry out
in detailuthe whole of the architect’s plan of which
only part is completed as yet.

OCTOBER 1946

 

THE PARKS and Rec-

reation Department of
‘ Salt Lake City, Utah
has a costume center for use by playgrounds in
putting on programs, plays, and festivals. All
costumes are made and repaired at the center.
They are used by the public at a very nominal fee.
The center is in operation the year round.

Costume Center

STUDENTS in the so-
ciology and biology
classes of the Farm-
ington, New “Hampshire, high school took a look
at their town (p0pulation 3095) this spring. They
came up with a survey of the community called
Aroun’ the Town—A Sociological and Wildlife
Survey. From documents, old newspapers. books,
records, letters, conversations with residents, ob-
servation, the youngsters in the sociology classes
worked out a history of the town’s past and pres—
ent developments down to the number of pieces of
mail delivered daily by the postman. The biology
students took over the survey of wildlife. Most
of their study was the result of research in the
out-of—doors and in their laboratory.

Look the Town Over!

To AROUSE more in-

terest in Australia’s

national day, citizens
should adopt a costume to wear at national festi-
vals, contends the Lord Mayor of Melbourne, Aus—
tralia, Councillor F. R. Connelly. He suggests,
for men, shorts, white open-neck shirts with
embroidered national emblems, colored knee
stockings and a broad—brimmed hat. For women
he would like to see a split skirt, white open-neck
blouse with emblems, and colored knee stockings.

National Costume

THE BASEMENT of a
playfield playhouse
has become a fall, win-
ter and spring nature center in Cincinnati, Ohio.
Here are stuffed animals and birds, mineralogical
exhibits, Indian implements and arrowheads, live
exhibits—including a pair of South American
doves. Here youngsters come with their teachers

Nature Laboratory

and their lunches for a full day of study and play.

Last March the basement was host to 1400 school
children.

377

378 - WORLD AT PLAY

Summertime in Wilmington, Delaware—
Recreation Promotion and Service, Inc. had a
large share in providing opportunities for a
happy summer for people in Wilmington,
Delaware. For boys in Wilmington and New
Castle County a baseball school was conducted
by members of the Blue Rock team. For the
first of five sessions of the school 178 boys
turned up.

Two hundred and nine boys entered a marble
tournament. It was run on a straight elim-
ination basis.

In June young Delaware artists had a chance
to show their works at a two-day Clothes Line
Fair. The artists got more than personal satis-
faction from seeing “themselves hung.” Ap—
proximately $2,000 worth of pictures were
sold. A commission from each sale helped pay
the costs of the Fair. Many of the artists
'paint only as a hobby.-

An Annual Report Extract—From .“Play
Inventory,” Portsmouth, Virginia, 1945: “Boys
and girls of high school age and seventh
graders were given the opportunity to bowl in
groups at the Old Hickory Bowling Alleys
three days a week. Much fun was enjoyed by
all these groups. Every Wednesday and
Thursday after school, bowling for members
of the Community Boys’ Club was held at
these same alleys. The alleys were donated
free of charge.”

Home Play—A Handful Relay develops fun
and can be carried on in a small space. The
players are divided into teams of equal num-
ber. Teams are arranged in lines —-one player
behind another. Fifteen Clothespins, peanuts
or sticks are given to the first player on each
team. At the starting signal he puts all of
them on the Hoor in front of the person behind
him. That player must pick them all up and
place them before the player behind him.
Each player must have all the Clothespins or
other objects in his hands when he passes
them. The team that finishes first wins the
relay.——From Freedom for Fun. Chicago Rec-
reation Commission.

Boosting auNew Playground—Lima, Ohio
has a number of Booster Clubs. One of them
appropriated this year'the sum of $500 to buy

equipment for a playground newly set up by
the city.

Arts and Crafts Show—The settlement!
houses in Alleghany County, Pennsylvania,.

- presented a combined Arts and Crafts Expo—

sition in Pittsburgh on May 11 and 12. In the
afternoon and evening of each day a music,
dance and drama program was presented in'
addition to exhibits of children and adults
working on many kinds of arts and crafts

projects.

Spring Frolic—Mid-May means an annual
spring frolic to many people in Elizabeth, New
Jersey. This year, as has been the custom
since 1937, the Downtown Community Center
in Elizabeth put on a revue program of dancing
and singing, skits and instrumental numbers.

Elizabeth has other interesting program
features in its Recreation Department. There
is, for instance, a concert band of 75 pieces.
Players range in age from 17 to 50, rehearse
weekly, give concerts at various institutions in
the neighborhood, at. veterans’ hospitals and
for civic groups. There are, too, teen-age and
veterans’ orchest‘ras which rehearse weekly
and play for some of the teen—age dances held
at the centers. '

Austin, Texas to Cleveland, Ohio—The
Pioneer Fidd'lin’ Folk and Square Dance Unit,
35-strong,_ took part in the National Folk
Festival, reestablished this year after a war-
time lapse. The dancers and fiddlers developed
their program under the leadership of Austin’s
Recreation Department. The group gave four
performances at the Festival. Before they returned
to Austin they gave five performances at veterans’
hospitals under the auSpices of the Cleveland Rec-
reation Department.

Fire Prevention Weeka—Stop Forest Fires!
October 6—12 is Fire Prevention Week. “Careless-
ness—recklessness cost lives, jobs, homes.” Dur-
ing this week—and every week—center your at-
tention on saving lives and time and money by
thinking befOre you leave alive any spark. A small
live spark may cost you dear. Be sure-that it is
out. Dead out! 

h.

Let Music Swell—~People who lived in‘
Greensboro, North Carolina, in'the summer
of 1946 had their own season of summer
“Pop” concerts. What’s more they provided

the music themselves. The Exchange Club
(Continued onpage 380) i 

 RECREATION

CONFERENCE REPORTS 379

Conference Reports

' Conference on Emergency Housing

THE PROBLEMS of land planning and community
protection in the emergency housing program
, were discussed at a three-day conference in Chi-
cago, May 23-25, 1946. Participants in the con-
ference came from the National Housing Agency,
State and local organizations concerned with plan-
ning housing and public works, private agencies
including the National Recreation Association.

The conference adopted no resolutions and made
no effort to reach a formal consensus. It did ex-
plore many problems that must be taken into con-
sideration in planning both‘ for the immediate
housing emergency and for a long range housing
program.

In the matter of planning for recreation in new
subdivisions, for instance, there was a discussion
of the advisability of requiring the subdivider to
reserve parts of his land for recreation purposes.
There are, it developed, two definite schoOls of
thought on the matter. Some members of the
group felt that it would be unfair to require the
owner to donate land for a purpose that should be
supported by general taxation. Others argued that
the public should not be required to pay for the
costs that are a proper part of the cost of the de-
velopment. Recreation, they felt, is as essential
l to the value of the neighborhood as the streets and
sewers which it is common practice to require
' developers to install.

Annual Conference of the American
Society of Planning Officials

The annual conference of the American Society
of Planning Officials was held in New York City,
May 6 to 9, 1946. The National Recreation As-
sociation joined State and City and private plan-
ning organizations in sending representatives to

consider some of the problems involved in wise

planning for community development.

The conference'program was a full one includ-
ing sections for the discussion of such questions
as State Planning Problems, Public Relations and
Citizen Participation, Training of Planners. An
interesting feature of the program was a Clinic on

Planning Problems of Small Towns.
The final session of the conference related to the

planner’s job in the present housing emergency
and the probable future effect of that emergency

OCTOBER 1946

upon town growth. Charts for the New York City
area showed that new housing is built increasingly
outside the city limits and at greater distances
from the city. Planners have a real concern for
this tendency to build in outlying regions for it
presents a threat to plans for the redevelopment of
the centers of our cities.

Before the meeting closed the Chairman urged
all planners to look ahead and try to foresee unex-
pected developments. He reminded the delegates
that homes should be built to make people happy, I
and not just to put a roof over their heads.

Industrial Recreation Association

The Industrial Recreation Association held its
annual meeting in Chicago’s Edgewater Beach
Hotel, June I 3, 14' and 15, 1946. Talks were
given each day by leaders in the field of industrial
recreation on such questions as program sponsor-
ship, the noon-hour recreation program, recreation
for older employees and their families, finding and
training volunteer leadership. One of the high-
lights of the three-day session was a series of 12
informal conference groups in which any delegate
was Welcome to join. The subjects for these dis-

cussion groups were :

Activities for Employee's Children
Establishing Eligibility Standards
Activities for Women Employees
Recreation for Office Workers
Voluntary Education Courses
Travel

Summer Camps

Flying Clubs

Ideas for Parties and Dances
Music and Shows

Camera Clubs

Picnic Ideas

Canadian Park and Recreation Association
Convention. Montreal. July I-4. I946

Clarence E. Brewer attended the first national
convention of the Canadian Park and Recreation
Association, which was held in Montreal in July,
to extend fraternal greetings in behalf of the rec-
reation movement in the United States. There
were 125 delegates registered.

The new Association is an outgrowth of the On-
tario Park and Recreation Association, which was
organized in 1936. The Association will act as a
clearing house for all matters on parks and recrea-
tion ; will publish a magazine and provide a bul-

380

Fremont PUBLICITY
or Your RECREATIONAL FACILITIES

EFFECTIVE O ECONOMICAL 0 PROF ITABLE

PICTURE POST CARDS

SUUVENIR FOLDERS

Reproduced From Your Own Photos
Write For Free Samples -
ARTVUE POST CARD COMPANY I

225 Fifth Avenue New York 10. N. Y.

letin service; will assist in every way possible pri—
vate and public park and recreation agencies. The
magazine, Recreation Review, is to be published
quarterly. At the present time forty cities in eight
provinces have membership in the Canadian Park

and Recreation Association.

The 1947 convention will be held in Port Arthur
and Port William. '

World at Play

(Continued from page 378)

and the Euterpe Club cooperated on arrange-
ments. The people of Greensboro provided the
music. They lifted up their voices and sang
the old ' songs that are always favorites—Oh!
Susana and My Old Kentucky Home and Aunt

Dinah’s Quilting Party. The slogan for this com— I

munity music program was, “Let Us Have a
Singing, Smiling, United People.”

Finger Painting—The Los Angeles Recrea-
tion Department’s Weekly Bulletin gives these
directions for iinger painting. Use a sheet of
butcher paper not less than 18” x 24”. To make
the paint, cook a thick laundry starch (without
lumps). To each quart of warm starch add
one-half cup of soap flakes and stir until dis—
solved. This clear finger paint will keep in-
definitely without spoiling. For color add
kalsomine when used.‘ Dark colors are best.
When you begin to paint you will need a
smooth table top, a large pan of water for
wetting the paper (water should be changed
often), paper towels or rags for cleaning the
hands and containers for the kalsomine colors.
Dip the butcher’s paper into the water in the

 

EDUCATION FOR THE ATOMIC AGE ,.

large pan and smooth it out on the table top.
Put a tablespoon full of clear finger paint on
the wet paper and spread it evenly. Sprinkle
the kalsomine lightly and spread it over the
paper as evenly as you can. With lingers, lists,
palm of hand or wrist, create pictures or de-
signs. Work swiftly to obtain distinct out—

lines, otherwise the paint will soak into the I

paper. Use a relaxed arm movement. Finger
paintings should be placed on floor or another
table to dry. If wrinkled when dry they can

be ironed.

Education for the
Atomic Age

” MERICAN EDUCATION WEEK is of vital in]-

portance 'in 1946.” The period from Novem-
ber 10 through November 16 is set aside to con-
sider the increasing need, in this atomic age, of
understanding the whole world and all the inter-
relations between its several parts; to re-emphasize
the fact that in the race between education and
destruction education must, somehow, keep ahead.

The general theme for the week is “Education
for the Atomic Age,” and this has been broken
down into seven daily topics as follows :

November IO—Practising Brotherhood
November I I—Building’ World Security

Q November Ira—Facing New Tasks
November 13—Developing Better Communities
November I4—Strengthening Home Life
November I 5—Investing in Education
November Ié—Promoting Health and Safety.

The time is long since passed when education
was looked upon as the duty and the prerogative
of the schoolmen, when all others kept out of
posted territory. So it is that recreation -depart-
ments and churches, libraries and museums, not
to mention Mr. and Mrs. John  Public, may
well be expected to take an active part in mark—
ing this week of November 10 to 16 withvlitting
programs and activities.

The National Education Association, .1201 16

Street, N.W., Washington 6, D. C., has sugges-
tions for organizing to celebrate American Edu—
cation Week. It has, also,.special~1naterials and
program helps which are now available for distri—
bution at a nominal cost. Write them for further
information.

: RECREATION

\7

it

,0-

‘s

 
   
    
   
          
 

GIVE HIM EQUIPMENT
 ‘ THAT ms

 

The proper size equipment today builds the
coordination that makes champions tomorrow.

.50 next time . . .
' Specify a Voit. Enduro CB8 . . . it is Proven Quality

scaled down in size for the smaller hands.

M [M I I I
AINlIIJC '
INSNIUII~

w. J. van RUBBER CORP.

I600 E. 25th Street, lo: Angelo: l'l - 180 No. Wacker Drive, Chicago 6

r

OCTOBER 1946

382 CHARLES PEEBLES

“BLOOMER GIRL"
Style 235

A National gym suit in a practical jaunty one-
piece bloomer style. Straight-tab collar, set-in
sleeves, attached belt and buckle. Modest and
'soundly design-
ed. Full amply
cut bloomers. A
style standard in
many schools.

Send for folder
illustrating this
and many other
attractive styles.

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 

NATIONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT 00.

355.375 MARQUETTE
POND DU LAC

WISCONSIN

As Youngsters See It

Bovs AND GIRLS of junior and senior high school
age in Tacoma, Washington, recently had a
chance to speak their pieces about the city’s recrea-
tion needs. Hundreds of youngsters in the public
and parochial schools entered an essay contest
which was judged by members of Puget Sound
Toastmasters’ Club No. 344. The subject for the
essay was the question: “What public recreation
facilities do you think should be provided in Ta-
coma in the next 15 years?”

The majority of the students put in their pleas
for a good swimming pool and substantial im-
provement of the playing fields. Some of the
young planners went further in their thinking on
the subject. Here are two specimen quotations
from prize winning essays which were read over
radio station KVI.

“That if Tacoma had teen clubs where all boys
and girls of teen-age could go for dancing, singing,
refreshments, games and so forth, they would
formulate little groups within these centers to help
get donations for the community chest and Red
Cross. . . . It would give them some place to go
on Friday and Saturday nights.”

Charles Peebles

'N THE DEATH 01“ CHARLES PEEBLES, outstanding
civic leader of Hamilton, Ontario, on July 26,

O 1946, the recreation movement in America lost a

strong and devoted friend. His public service for 1
many years was dedicated to the welfare of chil--
dren, and he served as president of the HamiltOn
Playgrounds Association for 16 years. He was
appointed a life member of the commission in 1935.
Since 1933 Mr. Peebles served as an honorary
membenof the National Recreation Association.

setting for one of the finest recreational centers on '
the West Coast. Everyone is seeking places of
recreation at a minimum cost. Trained leadership
is still lacking, a year around community center
should be provided for hobbies, games, and crafts,
where parents and children could work and play
together.”

Play Ball

AN DIEGO’S LARGEST business may be the fish-
5 ing industry, but not as far as the athletic
world goes. Exclusive of a considerable number
of service teams from Naval and Marine bases, the
Padres, school teams, inter-plant teams and pick-
up teams, there are no less than 178 local teams
engaged in some form of the game of baseball.

Of course there is no money made in this in-
dustry—save for a few odd sheckels collected by
passing the hat to pay the hard-working umpires—
but enough manpower is engaged in the activity to
justify its classification as San Diego’s busiest
business. Multiply that figure of I78 by the 15-
man average found on the roster, add the afore-
mentioned uncounted teams and the thousands of
spectators who nightly jam eight municipal soft- '
ball diamonds, and you’ve got something any of us
would like to have a penny for every one of l

The City Recreation Department office in Civic
Center, where a few years back a skeleton .crew
peacefully maintained the business of providing.
play for the city, has become a bustling nerve cen-
ter of activity since the start of this last basebalkx’
season. Ralph Smith, Director of Municipal Ath-i‘ri
letics, has made out schedules for 65 municipal
teams in eight leagues, six teams in the County
Baseball Managers’ loop, and assisted playground
supervisors in mapping out the course of some 51

“Tacoma is a growing city which has a natural American Legion teams in senior, junior and”

. \-
RECREATION

,4 70.491. Bad to Bed!

Like all WINTARK Equipment, it is the first and last
word in ruggedness combined with perfect playing
qualities. Designed in cooperation with State Athletic
Associations, it inherits all the qualities required to .
develop skill and accuracy in playmplus the exclusive
patented features of CORDURA“ construction. This
means—the greatest durability and economy in all
WINTARK Basketballs, Footballs, S’occerballs and Vol-
leyballs. The popular choice with players and ath-
letic directors throughtout America.

ORIGINAL PIONEERS

The \VEAVER Scholastic Playball and the WINTARK
Rubber Covered, Cord Wound Basketball, were the

FIRST balls of this type introduced 'and successfully
used.

WINTARK Policy Wins for Dealers
Write for Our Latest Catalog

 JIWEAVER'WINTARK 

_ SALES COMPANY
. : AMERICA'S fOREMOST ATHlUlC EQUIPMH"

‘* aox 11....SHAMOKIN,VP_A.- ;

creams; rm

t

I

4'

a-

 

384 BUREAU OF PARKS GETS GO-SIGN

Bureau of Parks
Gets Go-Sign

HE MUNICIPAL Bureau of Parks, Recreation
Tand Aviation, Walter Wright, superintendent,
has announced its plans for 88 new play areas in
Chicago which will be so distributed that every
one of the 50 wards will have at least one new
unit. The funds for these new areas will use up the 1
balance of the, $2,000,000 .bond issue, authorized '
by the voters of Chicago in June 1945. .

The 88 locations of new units will be made up of
41 supervised playgrounds, 15 athletic fields and
32 playlots.

Alderman John J. Duffy’s subcommittee of the
City Council has authorized the Bureau to pro-
ceed immediately with the improvement of the
sites that are on publicly owned property—either
city-owned or vacant Board of Education land.
These units will include 8 playgrounds, 4 athletic
fields, and 9 playlots. Eighteen school yards will
be equipped for recreation.

The remaining 49 sites will be presented to the
City Council for authorization for purchase in the
near future. It is expected that approval will be
forthcoming with little or no opposition. '

I

.n «my field «i spar! .0 Puget
it “an! own? Pro and Amateur Best
In“ and Softba" in Universities.
Cu'ltges and Hit}? Edam, F's Mu-
nnlp i and Industrial Recreation.

Mani-230' Go’dsm’tb Sports
Lneipncnf is recognized as a 316:3
Marl of quality and «varying

 

 

 

A Forward Step in Forestry

ECENT ACTION taken by the Virginia General
Assembly in providing on-the-ground forestry
services to its woodland—owning citizens is worthy
of note. By special act of its legislature the State
has provided its. Forestry Department with an
operating budget—$52,800 in this instance—t0 be
used exclusively to assist. woodland owners to .
apply forestry methods in the management of their
timber growing properties.

Like many other States, Virginia in the past has
endeavored to furnish such services but has been
able to do so only on a very limited scale because
funds have been too meager and uncertain. The
result has been that many- landowners who have
wished to apply forestry but have lacked the know-
how have done little or nothing to improve theiri
woodlands. A similar situation prevails in many rlf

midget divisions. The playground supervisors are
conducting boys’ softball leagues in three divisions
of the city for 66 teams from elementary school age
to the tenth grade.

While the'municipal night leagues have thrived
for several years in this locality, the increase in the
participation of youngsters is tremendous this year.
Especially notable is the desire of all to play hard-
ball, which has resulted in the forming of 17 midget
teams playing what is accurately described as
Junior—Junior American Legion baseball. Hardly
larger than the gloves behind which they hide, the
midgets are picking up the liner points of the Na—
tional Pastime at a pace that would gladden the
hearts of old-time ball fans.

Even girls’ leagues have been formed, a Bay
District team from Bayview Terrace having run
up an undefeated record that surpasses the record

compiled by any of the 178 men’s and boys’ teams.
llut right now the gals will have to curb their en-
thusiasm for a while. There just aren’t any more

diamonds, playgrounds or even empty lots left in
town!

other States where on-the-ground service and edu-

cation for Woodland owners rests, as in Virginia,

mainly on such assistance as can be obtained
through Federal aid under the Norris-Doxey Act.

Funds from this source are not only pitifully small N

RECREATION

\

 

A FORWARD STEP IN FORESTRY r ' , 385

Football’s Finest Ball

. . . takes. to the air like a bullet!

For the faster, wide-open passing game of
today, Wilson created a truly modem
football. From skilled Wilson designers
came the improved, reinforced, cross-
tension triple lining which enabled this
newer ball to bald its shape—a shape
especially designed for “spiral” passing
and punting. Look to Wilson for the
LAST WORD in modem equipment.

'WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
(A Wilson & Co. subsidiary)

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

IT’S wnsou TODAY IN SPORTSiEQUIPMENT

 

but the act restricts their application to farm
woodlands.

Between the farmer and the large timberland
owner financially-able to employ foresters, there
are in every forested State millions of acres in
small woodland tracts owned by people who do
not qualify for assistance under the N orris-Doxey
Act. The Virginia legislation opens the door for
the State Forester to help this middle group of

owners to manage and develop its properties by .

good forestry methods. Furthermore, it enables
the State Forester to charge for the services ren-
dered and thereby to spread his assistance over a
relatively large amount of forest land now urgently
in need of forest management. .

Thus Virginia takes forestry out of the clinical
or charity stage and gives it an opportunity to es-
tablish itself on a practical dollar—and—cents basis.
When a landowner can see profit in hand from
professional advice and assistance the desirability
of the service is quickly apparent. By establishing
the service as a State function, Virginia gives rec-
ognition to the fact that good forestry is in the
public interest, and by making a moderate charge

OCTOBER 1946

for the services rendered it demonstrates to the
landowner that forestry is a vital part of land
management. In another direction .the legislation
is challenging in that it places the State Forester
and his men on their metal to show that good for-
estry will yield greater profit from sustained yield
of woodland crops.

In promoting State extension forestry, the Vir-
ginia act authorizes the State Forester to give a
certain amount of free service in the way of dem—
onstrations of approved forestry principles. Such
demonstrations, however, are to be limited to areas
of not more than 10 acres each. To this extent the
State Forester is permitted to advertise his ser-
vice to landowners by demonstrating to them with-
out cost how they can profit by better manage-
ment of their woodlands. This is a technique suc—
cessfully applied to many commodities and services
in other lines of American business.

The Virginia program should succeed. The time
is ripe for it and there is a potential demand for
it. Its first step to success undoubtedly will be its
hardest and most important. This is for the State
Forester to obtain a staff of forest technicians espe-

386

   

  
      
       
     
   
   
     
   
         
      

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard omcial Shoes
.Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and omen!
Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, “INN.

  

cially qualified for the type of work they are called
upon to do. These men, we believe, will determine
the success or failure of the pr0gram becauseupon
them.will fall the task of making their services
worth the cost to landowners. Once qualified men
are at work, results should be testimony that for-
estry as a business can be instilled in landowners
by establishing business methods—a. field of en-
deavor which the State hopes eventually to have
more largely served by private consultants.

It is well recognized that the greatest need of
forestry today is in the hundreds of thousands of
small woodland tracts scattered through the nation
whose owners know little or nothing about for—
estry and therefore are doing nothing to maintain
and develop timber growing possibilities. Vir-
ginia’s meeting this need within its own boundar-
ies sets a pattern which it is hoped other States will
note and adopt. The success of its program is
bound to have a stimulating infiuence for better
forest management both in and out of the State.

"Reprinted by permission from American Forests.

MEMORIAL FOR GENERAL THEODORE ROOSEVELT, JR.

Memorial for General
Theodore Roosevelt, Jr.

HE READERS 0F RECREATION will wish to know
about the memorial that is being set up for
Brig. Gen. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. Many remem—~

ber Gen. Roosevelt’s part in the Outdoor Recrea- .
tion Conference, in the Washington Recreation l
Congress and his readiness at all times to be of '

help to the recreation movement. .
It is‘litting that the memorial to him should take

the form of a public library at his home town of ;

Oyster Bay, N. Y. The sum of $150,000 is being
raised, part of which will be used to erect a
modern fireproof building completely equipped,
and the rest used for services to the community.
A number of the leaders in the National Recrea-
tion Association are serving as members of the
Memorial Committee, of which Winthrop W.
Aldrich is treasurer.

The Good Things in Life

5 WE SIT HERE on this quiet Sunday afternoon
A at opposite ends of a radio beam, you and I,
it seems almost presumptuous of me to attempt to
upset any of your preconceived notions. And yet
that’s what I’m going to try.

If you were to sketch on a piece of paper your
concept of 'the thing we call “volume production,”
the picture would probably include sprawling build-
ings, assembly lines, towering chimneys, railroad
yards . . . all the material and mechanical equip-
ment we express in that one dry, dull word—
“facilities.”

The picture would also include—men!

So this afternoon, let_’s think of production in
terms of some of the other things in life that mean

 

 

.a lot to men. Let’s think of production in terms
of books and cameras, vegetable gardens and golf I

courses, baseball diamonds, dancing, and concerts.
Now don’t be misled. I’m not going to tell you

about happy people at the Ford Motor Company

who Spend their days indulging in Sports and

hobbies with only a short pause now and then to
turn out a car.

Not at all!

But, I do want to tell you about the Recreation
Department at Ford; for it is far different in con—

cept from the old-fashioned idea of a company-
sponsored recreation program. It represents a new

and vigorous phase of the “human relations” that
we hear so much about these days.

RECREATION

\'


FILNMS ”

Nearly a hundred selected sports and recreation films to improve your
programsl A great variety of entertainment films is also available from our
comprehensive library of over I500 motion pictures. at low rental, service

charge and FREE.

PLAY VOLLEYBALL. 2-reel instructional film on the iundamenl‘als of this
popular sport. Rental $3.00.

PLAY BALL. SON! 2-reel teaching film on basebaII.-wi’rh Joe Cronin and a
group oi experienced young players. Rental $3.00.

I reel each. in COLOR

ADVANCED SWIMMING Renfal $250 each

. ‘5‘ DIVING FUNDAMENTALS

 

FREE!

FEATURES 0 COMEDIES 0

SWIMMING FOR BEGINNERS }

CARTOONS e

GLIDING WINGS. 3 reels. Gliders as a breath-taking sport. their development and military use.
BIG TRAINS ROLLING. 2 reels. in COLOR. an interesting rail trip by a group of youngsters.

and many others.

SINGING CARTOONS

For the [9464947 edition of the CATALOG OF SELECTED MOTION PICTURES write to Dept. "H"

 

The Recreation Department at Ford does not
high-pressure Ford people into regulated, extra-
curricular activities. It doesn’t in any way impose
I itself on the people.

No, the Ford Recreation Department acts, in-
stead, as an agency through which the Ford people
may organize any teams, clubs, competitions and
tournaments they desire. It assists them in getting
the special instructors and coaches, referees and
umpires they may want. It makes available plots
of plowed land for employee gardens, and gives
expert guidance in gardening. If a group in any
plant or department wants to have a dance, an
excursion, an outing . . . the Recreation Depart-
ment is there with the personnel and facilities to
help the men and women themselves arrange it.

Through- the Recreation Department, the men
and women of Ford have built or obtained the use
of rifle and archery ranges, tennis courts, bowling
alleys, golf courses, softball fields, swimming pools
and baseball diamonds, as well as many other com-
munity facilities.

Today, thousands of Ford people are working
through the Recreation Department to develop
their hobbies, which cover scores of different
social, athletic and cultural pursuits—from picnics
to flying clubs, from badminton to boating, from

OCTOBER 1946 '

chess to camera clubs and choral groups. They’re
participating in a new, self-starting, self-sustain-
ing kind of fun.

This self-starter recreation is catching hold for a
very simple reason. It belongs to the individuals
themselves. As one man put it: “I don’t want
any gift—horses in my stable. Whether I work at
Ford or anywhere else, I’m working so I can have
the things I want in life. But I don’t want anyone
to give them to me outright. I just want a fair
chance to deve10p my interests myself.” ‘

The Ferd Motor Company is giving its em-
ployees that chance. For they believe that if men
and women have an opportunity to build some-
thing for themselves while they’re building cars
for you, they’ll do a better job for both you and
themselves. .

And so, production is a matter of books and
cameras, vegetable gardens, golf courses, baseball
diamonds, dancing, chessmen and concerts. For
these are some of the good things in life for which
men work. And upon man’s work, production

depends—K no.1: Manning.

ED. NOTE: The Good Thin-gs in Life was the inter-
mission talk on the Ford Festival of American Music
broadcast, July 7, 1946, over the ABC network. It is
published here through the courtesy of the Ford Motor
Company, Dearborn, Michigan.

388

Children's Theater—1945

HE SECOND FULL YEAR and the third season of
the Children’s Theater of the Recreation De-
partment was concluded in 1945.

The business of play producing, with its duties
of acting in one play, being stage manager in
another, and head of the lighting crew in a third,
had in 1945 developed into a routine for the chil-
dren which made the theater an accepted part of
their lives. Further, the Children’s Theater with
its 50-60 membersbecame, to a much greater
degree than heretofore, one of the recognized cul-
tural institutions in Austin.

The yearly production schedule as set by the
Department at the inception of the theater is three
public admission performances, with other appear-
ances at logical intervals.

The first production date in 1945 was on Janu-
ary 19 and 20 when three plays were. produced for
the general public. The next production was given
on May 4 and 5, with a matinee performance for
children being initiated at this time. The last of-
ficial date of the year was in December when a
matinee and two evening performances were given
in the University Junior High Auditorium.

In addition to the paid performances, the Chil-
dren’s Theater played an interesting and worth-
while part in the success of the summer play-
ground community night programs. At the begin-
ning of the summer season, a schedule of ten per-
formances on the playgrounds was compiled by
the playground supervisor and followed faithfully
by the group. The benefits, of course, were two-
fold. The children were presented to large audi-
ences in every section of the city and additional
entertainment for spectator enjoyment was pro-
vided on -the playgrounds. A play by the theater
is a standard feature of the schedule of sing-song
variety show programs at Zilker Springs. The
1945 performances before several thousand people
were great hits.

Other special performances given by the chil-
dren in 1945 included plays for the Austin Ex-
change Club, the University of Texas Department
of Drama, the story hour at the Austin Public
Library, and the Central Council sponsored com—
munity picnic. Audiences for the year included
approximately 9,000 people.

The constitution of the Children’s Theater of the
Austin 'Recreation Department states that “any
child who is not younger than 8 years of age
and older than I 5 may become a probationary

CHILDREN’S THEATER—1945

H

member. After appearing in one show in any
capacity, such a person, having a sincere interest
in the theater, is voted into full membership. Of-
licer personnel consists of a president, vice-presi-
dent, secretary, and business manager who, with
members-at-large representing each ten members,

compose the official board.

—From Annual Report, 1945, Recreation
Department, Austin, Texas.

A Progress Report on Membership
( C ontinned from 1909:2358)

Book of the National Recreation Association re-'

ports some four thousand full-time, year-round
professional workers, almost all of whom are with
municipal and county recreation departments. At
least as many more must be engaged in other
agencies such as those enumerated above. There
is a real challenge ahead for the Society to attain
its first objective.

This brief report would not be complete with-
out mentioning the very real teamwork that has
distributed the load that is entailed in handling
the membership work of the Society. The officers.
the membership committee, State membership
chairmen, and officers of affiliated organizations
have all pitched in to share their portion in ex-
pediting the business. The National 'Recreation
Association has been most helpful in relation to
magazine subscriptions and especially generous
in arranging for a booth at the Recreation
Congress..

.-When we realize that all of the work in the
Society is done by members on a volunteer basis,
it seems fair to say that a solid foundation has
been built. Its future depends upon all of us.

Your Own Music for fhe Asking

(Continued from page 356)

she did not come. A week later; she wrote the li-
brarian, “I’ve just won the Metropolitan Opera
Auditions of the Air, after singing the ‘Flower
Song.’ Thanks to your records.”

On the other extreme there is the boy in uni-
form who spent hour after hour leaning over a
tavern juke box in Long Beach, California, play-

ing Schubert’s Ave Maria. Finally the waitress \1

asked, “Why don’t you go over to the public ’5

library, Bill? They’ve got lots of records you can
listen to.”

Bill went. To the sympathetic librarian he con-
fided that he was a veteran of the Guadalcanal
campaign and, still suffering from combat fatigue,

RECREATION

i

YOUR OWN MUSIC FOR THE ASKING 389

  

H t was under hospital treatment at a nearby Marine
’ base. Under her guidance, he listened for hours
' I to Schubert’s symphonies and Verdi’s operas.
After three months of this informal music therapy,
he told her exultantly, “The medics tell me I’m
well enough for a discharge. I say the credit goes
to the records—and to you.”

 

Even bobby-soxers have their spot—in the Col-

legiate room in the Milwaukee library, which   

caters to teen-agers only. Favorite selections are

the music played by Xavier Cugat and Count   

Basie and the music of George Gershwin.
You can decide, easily, which

craft fits into your plans. Just
glance through our 80-page
catalog. It includes tools and
materials for more than 40
crafts. Send 25 cents for this
catalog. Refunded on your
first order.

Tourists come into many West Coast libraries,
before going to Mexico or Latin America, seeking
Spanish linguaphone records. Soldiers spend their
leave listening .to music instead of painting the
town. A Scoutmaster comes in looking for square
dance music “with calls.” A woman sheet-metal
worker declares, “I want some Stravinsky. The
noises in the shop have made me like his music.”

Surprisingly, librarians everywhere report that American HHIIdiCI’llIlS 30., Inc.
men greatly outnumber women as listeners and 45 South Harrison Street
borrowers. In most libraries they make up more East Orange. N- I-
than 70 percent of the circulation, despite the 915 South Grand Avenue
reputation women have acquired as concert-goers 1-03 Angeles 15. Calif-

and music lovers. Further, men prefer the “strong
stuff” —— symphonies, operas, concertos — while

women want light operas and songs.
moved several albums of Beethoven, Tschaikovsky

and Strauss, then a few weeks later “replaced”
them with Liszt and Wagner.

Many business men come to the library for a
moment of relaxation and repose. One bank ex-
ecutive living in a New York suburb stops every

morning to hear a symphony before going to the Thanks largely to the radio, the American pub-
bank. A busy doctor comes in sometimes just lic today has become more music-minded than in
before closing time at 9 i). M. “Give me some any period of our_history. And it is the crusading
Mozart,” he requests. “It’s the only thing that goal of librarians the country over to make that
helps me to relax.” A middle-aged man comes interest a rich and permanent part of the life of
every Tuesday night with his entire family. “I every community.

want them to get the habit,” he explains.

The movies have a distinct influence on borrow-
ing. After the showing of A Song to Remember, I. . . o . . . . . . . . O . .

many libraries reported a run on Chopin’s music.  .   . 8

Most people place Tschaikovsky first as a com-
poser, but there is a healthy interest in such RECREATION CENTERS o SCHOOLS
INSTITUTIONS

moderns as Shostakovich, Schoenberg and Pro-
kofieff. Beethoven’s Emperor is the most popular CLUBS AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS
piano concerto, with Tschaikovsky and Grieg com— now can have BOWLING at a fraction

, peting for second. of the cost of regulation alleys.

Sand for descriptive circularl

On the whole, librarians find that people are

more careful of records than of books, return them :  _ w    RP_

more promptly and treat them with greater respect. .
Rarely do they disappear. Only one library re- . "4 565* 32nd Sheet New York CW

. ports a serious theft: a philharmonic pilferer re- . g . Q . . Q 0 O O O O O O O
' OCTOBER 1946

390

A Study in Values

HERE ARE 25 nationalities represented among
Tthe pupils of the Central Junior High School
in Los Angeles, California. Faculty members have
been selected for their international background
and what that can mean to the student body. Fel-
lowship and understanding walk the halls and
mix freely with the mingling of Anglo-Americans,
Chinese-Americans, Japanese-Americans, Italian-
Americans and many another hyphenated citizen—
to-be.

With such a background it is not, perhaps, sur-
prising that here in i the Central Junior High
School an act of creation took place which is
already having and is destined to continue to have
far—reaching influence on the boys and girls who
are—in a very real sense—a part of it. The cre—
ator is the Danish artist, stage designer and illus—
trator Key Neilsen. The creation is his mural.
The artist settled in California at the time when
he designed the stage sets for Everyman, produced
in the Hollywood Bowl in 1936. He is working on
the murals in the Central Junior High School be—
cause of a little girl who was born and lived and
died in Los Angeles. She had a way of going
about her work and her play which brought joy to
all who knew her—young or old, poor or rich.
After her death Filippa Pollia lived on in the
minds of all her friends. Her father, seeking to
keep alive the spirit of her living, established a
foundation in her name and to her memory. The
Filippa Pollia Foundation gives financial aid to
certain carefully chosen children who need it to
overcome an adverse circumstance which. might
prevent or delay the development of an especially
promising career. It has established a storytelling
program—because Filippa was never so happy as
when her father was telling her stories. The
murals that Key Neilsen is working on are being
made possible by this same Foundation.

His mural covers the entire wall of the school
library. The students in the school chose the sub-
ject. They saw it in every stage from the first
sketch to the completed picture. Many of them

watched at the open windows of the library after .

school was out and offered suggestions to Neilsen
as he worked on it. The story goes that one boy
begged the artist to hurry up and finish it before
he graduated. So the youngsters feel that the
mural is really theirs.

The mural does not show the wartime clash of
military forces nor does it tell the history of Cali—

A STUDY IN VALUES

fornia. It is far from “clanging machinery pistons,
dials and wheels with the taut muscles of labor.”
It tells instead the eternal value of the out-of—doors
and growing things. It refreshes the spirit with its
harmony of color and fine drawing. It sets in
paint the themes set to music by Haydn in his
Creation, for much of it is inspired by Neilsen’s
boyhood memories of hearing “The Heavens Are
Telling” and “With Verdure Clad” from that
great choral work. It translates into paint the first

chapter of Genesis:

And God made the beast of the earth after his
kind; and cattle after their kind; and everything
that creepeth Upon the earth after This kind; and
God saw that it was good.

Good citizenship and fine men and women are

the result of such inspiration as lives on the walls
of the Central Junior High School. Murals painted
by line artists are cheaper ways of getting this
result than is the more common method of having
to make over young people and even adults be-
cause of the lack of inspiration and leadership in
the formative periods of life. The imagination——
if one is young—is easily aroused to things worth-
while and constructive.—-—Philip L. Semen, PhD.

grid/cl your ‘
Recreation Library!

0 Do you have on your
shelf these first aid supplies
for the recreation program?

Conduct of School Community

Centers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ .50
Rural Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
Recreation and the Church. . . . . .50

Recreation for Industrial Workers .50
The ABC’s of Public Relations

in Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .85
RECREATION Magazine, per year 3.00

Send your order to

THE NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION

3I5 FOURTH AVENUE
New York IO' N. Y.

RECREATION

I

“A.

"s

America finds a new, easy Way To save

  

OUT OF the war has come a great
lesson in thrift—the success
of the Payroll Savings Plan.

Under this Plan, during the war,
~ millions of wage earners set aside
billions of dollars for War Bonds
through “painless” weekly pay
deductions.

Under .it today, millions more
continue to use its easy deductions
'to buy U. S. Savings Bonds . . . to
put away the money for new
homes, new cars, new appliances.

SUGGESTION: Why not let this new,
easy way to save help you save too?

 

SAVINGS AND INTEREST ACCUMULATED
Wuhly

$2,163.45
3,607.54
4,329.02
5,416.97
7,217.20
8,660.42
10,320.74

 

Out of pay—into nest eggs! A wage earner can
choose his own figure, have it deducted regularly
from earnings under Payroll Savings Plan.

Savings chart. Plan abOVe shows how even
modest weekly savings can grow big. .Moral:
Join your Payroll Savings Plan next payday.

W5 77/15 91.17 mm.
807 we 30/705 mow/7 PAYROLL 5A was

Contributed by this magazine in co~operation

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

OCTOBER 1946

391

'-

392 FRIENDLY GRAUPS OF WELL-PLANNED NEIGHBORHOODS

Friendly'Groups of Well-Planned
Neighborhoods

(Continued from page 372)

need for good design and careful control of new
development which will ocCur in large quantities
on the now vacant lands remaining within the city.
-He said that the same principles of modern city
planning should be applied in the rebuilding of the
blighted areas and that the public and private ef-
forts devoted to the building of new homes must
conform to good standards of design to assure
better utility of the land and more attractiveness
in the appearance of the completed new neighbor-
hoods. The streets upon which people live should
be laid out to discourage fast-moving traffic
through neighborhood areas. He made it clear
that the real purpose of the expansive network of
expressways is to take fast, through—moving traf-
fic off the local street system. Consequently the
residential areas will become quieter and safer
places in which to live. One of the greatest objec-
tions to big-city living is the. traffic hazard to
small children. This factor was predominant in
the considerations of the Commission in the pre-
paration of its plan. Thus, said Mr. Mellinger:

“All advantages of the large metropolis would
be retained in the coordinated, planned city. The
central business district, for example, will remain
as the central retail area and amusement district,
and it would be there that many of the activities
of the entire metropolitan area and great midwest
territory will be focused. The city’s many cul-
tural institutions, its schools of higher learning, its
museums, libraries, and the like, would continue
to serve the entire Chicago area and its many visit-
ors. The county’s forest preserve, together with
the city’s large parks, boulevards, and improved
transportation facilities would be no less accessi-
ble .to all of the ‘big-city—small-own’ dwellers.
There would, of course, continue to be a single
municipal government to supply uniform public
services.”

Describing the various elements of the plan and
the tremendous benefits which the people will
realize from the completed improvements, Mr.
Mellinger continued to emphasize that the local
areas are the starting point and foundation of a
well planned city:

“F rom-each neighborhood and community must
come the teamwork of the people with the public

cago. The Commission expects, within a very
short time, to present officially these detailed plans
to the City Council as a supplement to the various
reports on major phases of the physical and eco-
nomic life of the city.”

I During the coming year, Mr. Mellinger be-
lieves that the Commission can complete the major
phases of the plan in order that Chicago will have
a comprehensive city plan framework within which
to develop its many public works and the housing

of its people in an orderly and progressive manner.
—Reprinted from The American City, February 1946.

Success Story
(Continued from page 357 )
7 :00 Dancing and Reading Rooms Open
7:00 Game Room Open
7:00 Boxing Class

SATURDAY MORNING
Rooms available to boys and girls 13 years of age and
under

9:00 to 9:30 Knitting Classes
9:00 to 9:50 Storytelling, ages 6 to 9
9:50 to 10:20 Folk Dancing, 6 to 9
10:20 to 12:00 Activities for ages 10 and over
Dramatic Club
Verse Choir
Folk Dancing
Storytelling
' Model Crafts Classes
Bead Craft
Art Classes

Model Airplane
Weaving

Table Games
Active Games

The Community Center schedule operates daily
from 3:00 until 5:00 in the afternoon and from
7 :00 until IO :00 in the evening.

The program is working. It has proven its
worth to the citizens of Montpelier. ' At the city
meeting in March, 1946 the people of the town
voted to continue year-round recreation.

Now municipal recreation is administered by the
Recreation Committee whose members are ap-
pointed by the Mayor and serve for one year. The
Committee and the Superintendent look hopefully
toward a near future when a Recreation Board
will be organized. ‘

Music as Recreation
(Continued from page 353)‘

cago cannot be overestimated. Good music is being
brought directly into the lives of many, many per-
sons who have had their music only over the radio '

officials in making possible these plans for a more

or from the movie sound tracks. They are, for the
modern, more comfortable, and more eflicient Chi- ”

tirst time, realizing that people make up choruses ‘5

RECREATION

THE OLD-TIME DANCE FESTIVAL 393

   
  

and orchestras, that singing is fun to listen to, and
,that it is fun to sing.
I Wider Opportunity is given to everyone who
'enjoys music and who wants to have more of it
enrich his life. This value is important, must be
.important. Not long ago a hard—headed business
man, a patron of the Chicago Symphony, Orches—
tra, the Civic Opera, Ravinia Park concerts and
many other musical events ,said to Carrington,
“Your Association is doing the best job for music
in Chicago. If you ever need money in a crisis
come to me.”

Such an attitude in such a man amazes me a
little, but it also makes me realize clearly what

Shakespeare was getting at when he wrote:

The man that hath no music in himself,

Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils;

The motions of [his spirit are dull as night,

And his affections dark as Erebus,
Let no such man be trusted.

The Old-Time Dance Festival

(Continued from page 371)
the Northland Folkdance Club, in Scandinavian

peasant costumes, were judged best-outfitted. The
largest exhibition group was from the Spokane

on the fioor in the “Sicilian Circle” and “Two
Ladies Cross Over.” An unusual group was made
up of soldiers from Geiger field and the U.S.O.,
mostly eastern men, who demonstrated the “Nar—
cissus” and a medley of square dances.

The exhibition groups won generous applause.
The names they had chosen—Wheat Haulers, Do
1 Si Do, Friday Nite Frolickers, Merry Makers,
3 Polka and Schottische, Wing Dingers, Quadrille
‘ Club, Friday N ite Gang, Sons 'of Norway, Swing-
sters Club, Gavotte, Polkateers, Slip and Slide,
Spokane Valley Hoppers, Mountain Mixers,
Boomps—a-Daisy, Dance Set, Swingaroo Club, for
examples—Spoke of the past and the future min-
gling in the'dance.

When the exhibition groups left the floor, the
audience took over and old hands at square danc-
ing and the many who were eager to learn joined
with enthusiasm and good fellowship in the
dancing.

Because of the unexpectedly great success of the
event, plans are being laid to hold festivals several
times a year. A Park Department plan is to have
outdoor dance festivals during the summer months.
Admission to these affairs is free with the Park
Department covering expenses.

OCTOBER 1946

grade schools which had more than 100 children .

First Name in Trampolining
Creates Another "First"

The I947

newt/on
TRAMPOLINE

LIGHTER—STURDIER—EASY TO MOVE
Folds Compact—Foolproof in a Jiffy
FOR INDOORHOUTDOOR USE

. Almost a decade ago Nissan—the ORIGINAL—
Trampoline introduced the bounding. body-building
sport of Trampolining.

O .Educators—Military. trainers have found its value
in actual use.

Write for Free Literature

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE
200 A AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA

 

Recreation—An Essential

-~ Community Service
(Continued from page 374)

15. Professional associations and societies on
natioanl, State and local levels should cooperate in
establishing and improving professional standards
and in achieving the objectives of recreation.

16. Every State should create necessary and
appropriate enabling legislation which permits
every community to plan, finance and administer
an adequate public recreation program.

I 7. Public recreation programs should be financed
by tax funds under a department of the local gov-
ernment.

18. Adequate financial support for the recrea-
tion services rendered by voluntary agencies should
be provided by contributions.

19. A fundamental and continuing obligation of

all responsible agencies is to develop a public
awareness of the social significance of recreation by
interpreting its needs, services and opportunltles.

394

20. Recreation services, actual and potential,

should be evaluated continuously in terms of their
contributions toward enriching individual and

community life.

Is There a Naturalist in the Community?
(Continued from page 363)

planning a hike for next Tuesday. Can you go
with us?”

He not only can go but he will come in before
that time to help work out details for the trip.

In addition to field trips, there are talks in
school assemblies illustrated by slides and pictures;
there are exhibits of specimens in cases placed in
school corridors or libraries; there are talks or
demonstrations of mounting specimens for groups
on the playground. In art classes, English classes,
and school shops can be found evidence that the
interest of the children in nature has permeated
the whole school program. Birds and flowers are
painted and written about. Bird houses and dis-
play cases are made. Exhibits are set up. Beside
the exhibit, several books on the subject may be
displayed invitingly. They are all well worn from
many readings.

A Program That Perpetuates Itself

Though the program began as the result of one
person’s interest, its continuance is by no means
dependent on any one person. Other nature lovers
have rallied round to participate and to furnish
additional leadership. The boys and girls them-
selves have developed into leaders who can carry
on with a minimum of adult help. The community
supports the program not only by expressions of
faith in its value but also by generous appropria-
tions from tax funds. The museum for which
$25,000 has been appropriated will undoubtedly
add prestige to the program locally and attract
attention of other communities. It is doubtful
whether it will mean more in the lives of the
young people than the little whitewashed cabin in
the park where they now mount their specimens
and enoy sociability.

This recreation program which has touched so
many young people and influenced their lives so
deeply requires no elaborate facilities and no great
expenditure of money. Its habitat is the great out-
of-doors; its supplies, the bounties of nature which
replenish themselves with unfailing regularity; its

leadership, those enthusiasts which such a pro-
gram naturally develops.

A CASE FOR THE AMATEUR ‘

.language. Poetry itself is not translatable. Vi-

_ of baseball, of surgery, of nursing, of poetry, and

A Case for the Amateur
(Continued from page 361)

while other people possessed of the same-facultie
let their talents sleep.

 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
 
  

that the attainment of perfection is beyond hi

power need not discourage him. After all, per
fection is relative. It is, indeed, unattainable

possibilities of perfection above what he has at
tained. So with the amateur. As long as he ha
the idea of perfection, displayed to him by th
expert, to aim at, he can find joy in his aim. An
oh, those rare moments, when in some brief pass
age, or in a bar of melody, or in rounded meter, h
feels that he has touched the goal! This is re
ward enough. He is changed for evermore becaus
he has discovered in himself something of th
ideal. He has felt his own power, his own close
ness to a great art. It has claimed him for its own
and placed upon his brow the accolade of it

blessing.
Poetry is intellectual expression colored wit
emotion. It is the union of knowledge, music, an

language. Knowledge supplies the idea whicl
sings in the poet’s mind and for which he findq'

- rhythmic words. The development of the idea,"

its musical connotation, and the construction oh
the language vehicle to convey the idea musically,I
offer the poet the creative joy of his art. Poetry{
is primarily for the poet. He gets out of it whatI
he puts into it. It represents constructive effor:
bearing its own reward. The consumer aspect 0
poetry is first in the pleasure the poet himself
enjoys. A secondary feature is the pleasure other
may get as readers or audience.

The poet translates the silent language of event
of life and of nature into the music of spoken

 
  
    
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
  

brant poetry is the product of enthusiasm for life.
Poetry lends itself also as a trellis upon which t
hang mirth and fancy interpreted in song.

All this is my excuse for writing verse, as als
for the multitude of other things I do which man
another may do better than I. But I yield to n,
one in the joy my lyric efforts win for me. Abov
this is my consciousness of obligation to thos
experts who have set standards of beauty and o
excellence toward which I can aspire. This is true

RECREATIOF

l
:l
I HOUSE OF MAKE BELIEVE 395

"pf the many other fields in which I have both
1 pproached the goal and fallen short, for the
. leasure has resided in the effort.

     

Hobby Shops as Creative Play.

'( Continued from page 367)

lanning. Interested bystanders could often be
rafted into cutting and pasting scrapbooks and
tthus become one with the group, if only for an
'hour.

‘——- W.‘ .44

The use of student help may not have always
netted the most effective art instruction, but the
activity went forward and helpers and helped alike
gained in social understanding. And at the expense
of being trite, let me reiterate, though we aim for
a high quality of endeavor, our chief goal is to
give momentary satisfaction in creative, play, to
give new measuring sticks for the evaluation of
future living, and to give an introduction to skills
and techniques and thus provide a tool for future
self-diversion.

House'of Make Believe: San Diego

Playgrounds on the 'Air
(Continued from page 370)

A comparatively novel adventure in recreation
work, the radio show had an origin typical of the
way important and good things get started. Back
in 1943 a youngster named Bill Denton was con-
fined to his bed and contracted a yen for self—ex-
pression that sought its outlet in writing letters to
public officials from the President down. One of
these letters, in which the suggestion was dropped
that a radio show just for the children be created,
found its way to the Mayor of San Diego. The
Mayor, a progressive executive, passed the sug—
gestion on to officials of the Recreation Depart—
ment, who in turn hired a staff member to carry
it out. I

Looking around for an idea for the first script,
the director hit upon an appropriate theme. Bill
Denton appeared on the program along with the
Mayor and the origin of the program was acted
out in a skit that sent the show off to a good start.
Skits on. current topics; historical, fairy-tale and
whimsical themes; holiday pageants and the like
soon became punctuated with variety shows with
accomplished juvenile performers appearing be-
tvfeen a running script. Later on a teen—age orches—
tra appeared, and every few weeks the show would

OCTOBER 1946

 

 ___________   ._ ,.   .. " FULl. 2" or
\ LAYER FELT

. . . . says Iohnny Walsh. v 
famous University of Wiscon- \ _/ 
sin boxing coach. who has

produced 1'7 individual National Cham-

pion boxers.

Like any active sport, boxing can be
dangerous if simple safety rules are not
applied. One of the first rules in boxmg Is
a good, safe mat. NATIONAL mats are
made with full 2" of extra—resilient layer—

feIt—produced by platen process as an ad—
ditional safety measure. There are no safer

mats than NATIONAL GYM MATS.

NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT 80.

365—375 Marquette Street
FOND Dl_J LAC, WISCONSIN

 
    
   
   
   
    
     
    
     
   
    
    

_———____——__—_..__——-——-——l—II———_-
—-—__—-—-—_l_--———'—‘__'—--——_

he turned over to the jive element to whose re-
quirements dialogue and dramatic material were
specially tailored. It was discovered early that in-
terviews and talks 'by adults cramped the style of
the young radio fans—unless of course a movie
star or famous athlete appeared.

Always the taste of the youngsters has been a
primary consideration. The director has had a rare
education in the mind of youth and his willingness
to take suggestions has kept the program fiexible
and creative, adaptable to the impulsive, change-
able, e'nhusiastic mood of small fry.

The show has been going on for three years
now and continues to grow apace. Hundreds of
local youngsters. whose parents have never been
near a mike have been heard over the air. Some of
them have been so entranced with the atmosphere
of the 'air waves that they have determined to
choose radio work as a life vocation. Others have
returned to their English classes considerably
more attentive. Many have found themselves in
dramatics, using their radio training as a spring-
board for starring roles in school plays. But all

396

of them have had a lot of fun in the H ouse of
Make Believe and all have been a party to the
thrill of a lifetime when a hush goes over the studio

and the show is on the air.

Poetry for Fun
(Continued from page 354)

led by a few judicious questions or hints to point
out bad examples for themselves.

Results

If you could see some of those posters carefully
hoarded for the record, there would be no ques-
tion in your mind as to whether these children
like poetry. Their selections are too sensitive, too
apt to the illustrations, to have been selected by
dislikers of poetry. Nor are the quotations the
careless choice of the lazy or the eager—to—be—rid-
of-a-chore variety. Pleasure and excitement and
interest have joined intelligence and awareness to
make the right selection. And, incidentally, a very
great deal of poetry has been read in the process
of looking for selections like the two examples
that follow. .

On one occasion the library staff member drew
pastel pictures of tiny bugs dressed in their finest
regalia representing a beetle wedding. Characters
included the minister, bride and groom, best man
and maid of honor. The poem which the children

selected for this picture is The Little Green
Orchard by Walter de la Mare: -

“Someone is always sitting there,
“In the little green orchard . . .

“I have heard voices calling softly
“In the little green orchard.”

Another sheet was decorated with toadstool
houses (complete with chimneys) and the little
pe0ple (bug peOple !) who inhabit them. The chil-
dren’s poetry-reading led them to select Toad-

stool Town by Rachel Field to illustrate this pic-
ture. Here it is:

“At the end of the old fll‘ wood
“From the tufted green and brown
“Of moss and fern—«have you seen

“The spires of Toadstool Town?”

“Have you watched the faint smoke mount
“From those pointed roofs and gay?

“Have you marked how they clustered peak on peak
“And found them gone next day ?”

The children are definitely proprietary about the
exhibits. They bring in their friends and point
with excited pride to this or that poster. “That’s
the one I made,” they say. Or “I picked out the

POETRY FOR FUN "

verse for that one.” And then the friends crowd
around the desk wanting to know when they can
come and “make” a poster.,

Each exhibit stays in place for a month—long
enough for all the children to enjoy it, not too long
to become “Hat, stale and unprofitable.” When it
is taken down it may be sent to one of the ele-
mentary schools in the neighborhood so that other
children may see the kind of thing the library
offers them and may see poetry in a new and in-
teresting aspect—as fun, not a “lesson.” Or, the
exhibit may be sent to the library’s special story
hour room in the out—patient department of one of
New York’s hospitals. Here children come to the
allergy clinic and here, each week, one of the
librarians from the 67th Street Branch tells stories
to the little patients awaiting examination or treat—
ment. The doctors have provided the library with
an instrument case whose glass enclosed shelves
make a fine display case for book exhibits. Chil—

dren and their parents who come from all over the ‘

country to this clinic find pleasure in the book
exhibits and the display of rhyme sheets, and
many a-parent has learned to his satisfaction what
kind of reading matter librarians trained in’such
choices think best for youngsters.

Other Activities

This branch of the New York Public Library is
a-hum with other ways to fill the lives of young
patrons with the adventures that live through
books. There are, for example, 12 elementary
schools in the district served by the library. Each
of these schools is scheduled for special library ser—
vice—book talks—for at least one hour a week. For
youngsters in grades one to three the emphasis is

upon picture books and told stories. Older children '
learn about books in their range of reading ability '
and about how they can use a library. The class '

groups come, for their library talks, to the library
building so that there will be an’air of informality
instead of the classroom atmOSphere.

In addition there is a general story hour in the
library once a week and special story hours on
regular holidays and on the birthdays of Special
people who are leaders in the field of children’s
literature. On Saturday mornings there is a picture

book hour for the youngsters who have not yet .

learned to read. '

When June brings the end.of school and the
opening of the playgrounds" the librarians take
their treasure of stories out-of-doors. Each play-
ground has its story hour once a week.

RECREATION

 

{

 

JUNIOR FORESTERS 397

Junior Foresters

(Continued from page 360)
tions from their enthusiastic sponsors: Kiwanis

Clubs, Garden Clubs, Merchants’ Associations,
P.T.A. groups, and other organizations and indi-
viduals. A licensed arborist—member of the Shade
Tree Conference—donated $20 in cash to one of
the clubs for a purchase of Moline elms, and later
gave them two five-foot spruces to complete their
landscape plan.

In another case a merchants’ club sponsored
Junior Foresters in a neighborhood school where
the ground was bare and only a few scraggly
Chinese elms were scattered around in the park-
way. A donation of $25 was made for which the
Juniors purchased American elms and planted
them, pr0perly spaced, all around the school. The
ground was worked over and seeded to grass.
Flowers were planted in suitable spots, and within
a few. months such a transformation took place

that many pe0ple could hardly recognize it as the

same place. The school children were happy about
it, the patronsthought it was wonderful, and the

sponsoring merchants boasted that that was the '

best investment they ever made. “There was
always a lot of vandalism in this neighbbrhood,
especially broken branches and bruised bark on
trees,” commented the Secretary, “but now we
seldom see any damage of this kind. We want one
additional school organized every year until this
entire section of the city is covered. And we have
a check for every school.” Home beautification, in
this particular area, was conspicuous by its absence,
but the Junior Foresters were instrumental, in
many cases, in turning ugly tin can, ash, and rub-
bish heap spots into beautiful lawns and flower
beds. ’ I

A couple of civic-minded individuals have
donated $100 every year to use for tree-essay con-
test prizes, to purchase books and tools for the
clubs, and otherwise help them to carry on their
projects successfully.

The patrons of one of the high schools were
inspired to collect around $3,000 and spend it for
landscaping the school campus.

These are just a few of many cases showing the
practical value of the Junior Foresters’ work, and
its p0pu1ar and enthusiastic acceptance by the
public.

No Time for Trouble

There is another important feature that results
from this project.

We all agree that an individual who loves trees

OCTQBER 1946

 

  
 
 
 
 
   

  

rs! Choice

for

Every Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

 / m 

~w "I: FINISI' nv r”: Filtn .1

“@110qu
‘131 ' MANUFACTUIING COMPANY O

 

 

 

 

is a good person. Nature study in general helps to
bring out and cultivate the finer 'human qualities.
This is being amply demonstrated among the
Junior Foresters in Omaha. The parents happily
testify that something happened to Junior since
he (or she) became a Forester. “They are so in-
terested in trees and so full of projects that they
just don’t have time to get into trouble,” com-
mented one of the principals.

It may be mentioned that requests for informa—
tion about Junior Foresters came from several
cities of the Middle West, from the State Forester
in Virginia, and recently from a Khan in India.
The Christian Science Monitor published an il-
lustrated. article written by a former teacher in

Omaha.

The Omaha l/Vorld Herald has been an enthusi-
astic booster of the Junior Foresters ever since
they were organized. It has given much valuable
publicity about their program and activities and
in other ways helps to encourage and promote this
project.

'Much more can be said about this subject but
the article would be too long. We shall be glad to
furnish more information upon request.

51'. IOUIS 3. M0.

398 TEXARKANA, U. 5. A. - H

  

RIDE
YOUR
HOBBY

with these

HELPFUL
B"QK§..

tie

[Many new titles on the
way; write today for lists!

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . .8150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson. . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
CLAY MODELING, by R. R. Flore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Charles Carlson.. .'. 1.00

OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00
PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES,byCharIotte H.Young 1.00
FIGURE DRAWING WITIIOUTA MODEL, by CIiE Young 1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
WORKING IN LEATHER, by Margaret Ickis . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING, by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00
FUNDAMENTALS OF WOODWORKING,

by Harry C. Hellman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East llth Street New York 3. N. Y.

  

Creative Energy is Ageless
(Continued from page 376)

solid answer, with which we should be very

largely concerned.

Interest in the program has been manifested
by inquiries throughout the country, and it is
hoped that a national foundation will be de-
veloped to stimulate the establishment of these
centers, to combine the active forces interested in
the problems of the older person, to make avail-
able the newer knowledge in the field, to en-
courage research, to stimulate schools of social
work to meet the need for leadership, and to

coordinate the activities and programs of the
centers.

 
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
    

Texarkana. U.S.A.
(Continued from page. 368)

Among the leaders in the planning for the es-
tablishment of a public recreation department was
the Junior Chamber of Commerce, another out-
of—the-ordinary group, as its members are all af—
filiated with both the Arkansas and Texas State
organizations. They are a live-wire group of
young men, who saw the need readily for this
public service and set about the business of insti-
gating action on a sound basis and with coopera-
tive success held foremost in their minds. They
did. not start the ball rolling, and then stand by to
watch it roll. Members of the organization are
serving on the Commission, they are contributing
to the procurement fund for recreation equipment
and supplies. Individual members are giving
freely of their time as volunteer recreation leaders.
The organization is lending its wholehearted sup-
port to the program. Likewise the service and
business and professional clubs of the city are sup-
porting the program and cooperating fully as
organized groups of citizens representing both
sides of the State line.

Volunteers Take a Hand

Through the Volunteer Service Bureau of, the
Community Service Council, an organization has
been set up to secure volunteers and to train and
assign them to their various administrative and
leadership jobs in the Recreation Department. At
the establishment of the department there are 37
leaders doing volunteer service through this or-
ganization with the Recreation Department. Their
duties include secretarial services in the Recreation
Department office, establishment of educational
programs for recreation in the community, Recre-
ation Department publicity, establishment of neigh-
borhood advisory councils and general playground
leadership. This volunteer organization is affiliated
with the National Volunteer Service Council.

A volunteer association of Negro recreation
leaders has been- organized and is assisting in the
recreation program at the four Negro recreation
centers in the city under the direction of a paid t‘
recreation supervisor, who is a member of the

Recreation Department staff. r\r'”
The citizens of this city are to be commended iii
for transforming what might have been a crippling
scar on its character into a beauty spot. For here
is being set an example of good neighborliness that
might well be followed by other cities and our

State and county governments.

A Navy 5. O. 5.

(Continued from page 369)

reation in recreation centers and gymnasiums has
produced a fine spirit of camaraderie and coopera-
tion between the men and women in and out of
uniform.

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 399

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles of 2
_Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZIN ES

Parks and Recreation, July-August 1946

Michigan Providing for Public Recreation, Helen H.
ee ‘

A Survey on Park Salaries

Nature Appreciation for Our Future Citizens, Mil-
dred J. Ericson

Historical Background of Recreation in America,
L. H. Weir

The Maintenance Mart

Beach and Pool, June 1946

An Example of Operating Cost, John C. Wlodyka
Factors to Consider When Planning the Community

Pool

The Nation’s Schools, August 1946

Youth Center, A School—Community Project, R. O.
Borreson

What About Camp-Schools?

Children’s Religion, September 1946

Resources in the Community, Marcia A. Everett
I Wish I Had a Story, Jeanette Perkins Brown

The Municipality, August 1946 .

The Use of Concession Stands in Public Parks,
Fred A. Nieser

Holiday. July 1946
Living War Memorials, Russ Davis

The American City, August 1946

Community War Memorial Coliseum Successfully
Financed, R. L. Hutchison

Along the Waterfronts, Part I

Beach and Pool, July 1946

Wading Pools
The Control of Insects in Swimming Pools, N. R.
Perkins

Holiday. August 1946

The Resort That War Built, Clarence Wood'bury
Sopranos and Soda Pop, Gaile Dugas
How to Do Nothing, Maysel Archer McLemore

The Crippled Child, August 1946
Relaxing to Learn, Lucia E. Laufeld

Beach and Pool, August 1946

Swim for Fun! Jack P. Houlihan
Style, Utility, Beauty

PAMPHLETS

Building with Logs

Miscellaneous Publication No. 579, U. S. Department
of Agriculture, Forest Service, Washington. Order

from Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C. 15
cents

Radio Script Catalogue

Association of Junior Leagues of America, Inc., The
Waldorf-Astoria, New York 22, N. Y.

OCTOBER 1946

How can recreation make its maximum
contribution to the total well-being ,
of individuals and communities I

This question is being asked by all persons
who are working with people. It is an-
swered by S. R. SLAVSON, scientist, teacher,
author, lecturer, psychotherapist, in

RECREATION AND
THE TUTM. PERSONALITY

From this book emerges a concept of recreation
embracing the insights of mental hygiene, education,
psychology, sociology, social work, and group work.
Dr. Slavson suggests techniques that lean less upon
facilities and more on individualization of the par-
ticipant, emphasizing recreation’s role in releasing
unconscious and repressed cravings by sublimating
aggressions and expressing constructive drives.

A critique, a defense, an analysis, and a work-book,
it is a ground-breaking attempt to unify the factors,
forces, and groupings in recreation.

$3.00

at any bookstore

 

Association Press

Let’s Hihe

Girl Scout National Organization, 155 East 44th
Street, New York 17, N. Y. 10 cents

Sense and Nonsense About Race, Ethel J. Allpenfeis
Friendship Pres-s, 156 Fifth Avenue, New York

Citizenship Participation in Community Services

New York National War Fund, Volunteer Survey
Committee, New York City

Municipal and County Parks in Pennsylvania, 1945

Department of Internal Affairs, (Secretary—William
S. Livengood, Jr.) Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
Harrisburg, Pa.

Group Work and Recreation for Japanese-Americans

National Social Welfare Assembly, 1790 Broadway,
New York 19, N. Y.

The Post-War Report 1946

Syracuse-Onondaga Post-War Planning Council,
City of Syracuse, Onondaga County, New York

Waterlines—Key to Development of Metropolitan Los
Angeles

The Hlaynes Foundation, 2324 South Figueroa Street,
Los Angeles 7, California

Ways and Means of Reaching Parents, Jean Schick
Grossman

The Play Schools Association, 119 West 57th Street,
New York 19, New York. 15 cents

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

, Home Away From Home

By Julia M. H. Carson.
York. $2.50.

HERE IS A HISTORY Of the USO during the war years.

It is no dry-as-dust tome put together from statistical
records and formal reports. The author has chosen rather
to record this story in incidents typical of the USO’s
work with service personnel within and without conti-
nental United States, with industrial war workers, with
Negroes and with wounded men not yet returned to their
homes. The 'book is thoroughly readable and presents an
interesting and human picture Of the USO and its
workers.

Harper and Brothers, New

Youth and Recreation

Prepared by The Canadian Youth Commission. The
Ryerson Press, Toronto. $1.25.

N 1943 THE CANADIAN YOUTH COMMISSION was set up
as an independent, private agency to study the prob—
lems of young people from 15 to '24 years of age. This
is the sixth report they have published giving the result
of their researches. The volume concerns itself in gen-
eral with three questions, “What Does Youth Want from
Leisure ?” ~“Wlhat is Youth Offered Today?” and "What
Should Youth Have?” A fourth section of the book,
“Summary and Recommendations,” is a suggested answer
to some-Of the questions raised in the preceding chapters.

Guidance. of Children Through
Physical Education

By Dorothy LaSaIle. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.50. '

THOUGH ADDRESSED primarily to teachers of physical

education in the elementary grades much Of the ma—
terial in this 'book has a general application Of interest
to all recreation workers. Part I is concerned with some
Of' the Over—all aspects of the subject. Part II is given
over to a consideration of curriculum materials for
physical education arranged according to grades in the
elementary school.

Animals for You to Make

By Philip L. Martin.
York. $2.00.

YOUNGSTERS (or oldsters for that matter) can make a

zooful of twenty animals “*by the book” if Animals
for You to Make is used as a guide. For each animal
the artist-author has included a full—sized pattern, a
picture and step-'by-step description Of the process. In
addition there are two pages in color suggesting how to
paint the toys and a chapter of general discussion of
tools, wood, paints, colors, settings, assembling and en-
larging—background details that the craftsman needs to
know before he sets to work.

400

J. B. Lippincott Company, New

Canoeing A - Z

By Ruth Elvedt. Published 1by the author, 67 N. Han-
cock Street, Lexington, Massachusetts. Mimeographed.

$1.50.
CANOEING A - Z is a handbook designed to cover every-
thing about this kin-d of boating from a description
Of paddles and canoes through the organization of canoe
meets and the use of the craft for shelter. There are
sections on canoeing techniques, on Safety control, on
team work and on canoe trips. .

The Years Ahead.

National Council of Y.M.C.A.’s of Canada. Toronto.
HE YEARS AHEAD is subtitled “A Plan for the Cana-
dian Y.M.C.A. in the Next Decade.” It is the report

of an exhaustive study of the present situation drawn up

by the Canadian Y.M.C.A. Study Committee under the

chairmanship of K. E. Norris. Murray G. Ross directed
the study. The study evaluates the current work and
organization of the Y.M.C.A. in Canada and makes rec-
ommendations for future deveIOpment.

 

 

Officers and Directors‘of the
National Recreation Association

' OFFICERS
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President
JOHN G. \VINANT, First Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
Sam M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary Of the Board

.DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New-York, N. Y. 

SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.-
JOHN G. 'WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

t

