DRURY_ COLLEGE‘LIBRARY
Springfield, Missouri

—‘

Forty Years
of the

National Recreation Association

OGETHER FOR FORTY YEARS men and women of good will have worked to help
I everyone in America to gain joy and strength and growth through doing the
things they most want to do. ‘ ~

Last year about 13,000 people shared in the financial support as members, some
300 volunteers served as sponsors in representing the Association in localities. Thou-
ands upon thousands have cooperated as volunteers to build the movement through
these forty years.

Of course the playgrounds, the parks, the swimming pools, the recreation centers
have played their part in keeping down mental and other diseases and lessening the
other ills of society, but the main effort has been positive, to build joyous, strong
citizens who never cease growing.

The attempt has been to help each person to be most fully the person he or
she-was meant to be. Some citizens have wanted one form of recreation, other citi-
zens have sought other forms. Some communities have sought one plan of organi-
zation, other cities’other forms. The Association has tried to help all—has not tried
to have one plan of living for each individual, each neighborhood, each community.
The Association has attempted to help all kinds of groups to work on recreation, on
the art of living.

The Association has refused to accept great power, which many would gladly
have placed in its hands, because it has wished to see decisions made locally. The title

to local recreation property of great value has been refused, because it wasbetter that
the title be held locally.

The Association has not "sought overmuch publicity for itself, though it has
secured much publicity for recreation, and the recreation movement as such has had
general recognition. The Association learned early that ,there is much you can talk
about if you do not_ do anything about it; very much you can do if you do not talk
about it. The Association has tried to be one of the groups that does not talk things
to death. Rather it has tried to give practical, definite, concrete help to those who want
to do. It has tried, however, to let the people in the community themselves be the ones"
who had the satisfaction of initiating and doing, the Association making the knowl—
edge and the experience of the whole movement available. 

There has been much emphasis on the individual—on what man is, on what
man wants, what he wants to become.

There has been much emphasis on the family—on the family playing together
in the home, on the family going out together, staying together.

There has been much emphasis on the neighborhood, on the block, on the vil-
lage, on people building for themselves, building their own lives.

Always there has been much emphasis on the church, on people finding happy
times together as families in their churches.

The natural groupings of people in service clubs and other clubs and lodges,
farm bureaus, granges,. labor groups, veterans’ groups have all had their part.

On its fortieth birthday, April 12, 1946, the Association members, the Board
of Directors, the staff salute the more than 1,500 cities and towns which have now
established community recreation programs, mostly supported from local tax funds,
thousands of small communities with special programs, the many counties which have
county government boards that give attention to recreation, the very many state gov-
ernment bureaus which do something to help with the recreation of the people, the

various federal government bureaus with which the Association for so long has worked
closely.

The Association salutes the mayors, the city managers, the recreation boards and
the recreation superintendents, the park boards and the park superintendents, the school
boards and the school superintendents, the governors and the many, many representa—
tives of government who do so much for recreation.

The Association salutes the newspapers, the magazines, the radio stations, the
P.T.A.'s, the serv1ce clubs, the League Of Women Voters, the Junior Leagues, the

neighborhood civic groups, the commerce and labor groups, the churches and religious
groups of all denominations.

.Above all, the Association salutes the people of America who have, given such
steady support to recreation for all these years and have made such extensive coopera-

tive use of the Association in themselves building local recreation centers and 1m}

native recreation leadership.

Recreation has become in its own right a giant—a giant not in size, not in mem—
bers, but" in innate strength and in the contribution it is making and g01ng to make to
the world in the next one hundred years. Perhaps no movement in America has made

more substantial progress. The movement has depth, power. It has gone far, yet in
another sense it is only now ready to go.

Recreation is strong because it has roots in the soil of the common life of

America. The movement is strong enough to leave room for people with diverse
points of view.

The people of America of themselves, for themselves, are cooperatively develop-
ing an art of living which each year has greater and greater importance. '

The first forty years is only a beginning.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

APRIL I946

Tales from a Southern City:
Three Stories About Playgrounds in
Richmond, Virginia

Richmond is Virginia’s largest city and its capital. According to the 1940
Census the city’s population was 193,042. In 1944 its budget for recreation
was $119,812, a part" of which was spent on its thirty-two summer play-
grounds. Some of the activities that tool: place on those playgrounds during
the summer of 1245 are described in the first two of the three stories which
follow. The third story tells how the principal and teachers of one of
Richmond’s schools went about improving their school playground.

Festival Week

By PATRICIA ROYAL

Promotions Secretary
Richmond Division of Recreation

AN ANYBODY USE a success story? Here are
C thirty—two of them——one for each of the play—
grounds conducted by the City Division of
Recreation in Richmond, Virginia, where “Festi—
val Week” was held during the month of August.
In theory, Festival Week was a series of sum-
mer season closing programs. Actually it was an
elaborate interpretation of American life by the
boys and girls of the city. This theme, which was
broken down into five phases of American history,
provided a colorful background and left a wide-
open field for the imagination of the youngsters,
the playground directors and the specialists as-
signed to the project.

If you had been in Richmond and had seen some
of these final events, you wouldn’t have thought
that only a few months before at a staff training
institute the plans for the summer theme had been
presented to the playground directors for their ap-
proval. Accepted wholeheartedly by the directors,
the American Life theme was passed on to the play-
ground children with some idea for its develop—
ment toward a final festival.

The Theme and Its Phases

The theme was divided into five phases—Indian
Life, Pioneer Life, Southern Life, Life on the Mis—
sissippi, and Life in the Wild West—and each
playground was asked to choose one phase for its

APRIL 1946 U an” 1/0

summer project. It was feared at first that the
Indian Life theme would capture the fancy of the
children and thirty—two playgrounds would be beat—
ing tom-toms and portraying the John Smith in—
cident come Festival Week, although each of the
five divisions promised to be equally colorful and
exciting as evidenced in the program files being
prepared by a Richmond public school teacher
employed during the summer to do research work
on the project. But the central ofiice’s prayers were
answered and the phases were apportioned almost
as well as if they had been rationed out with no
respect for the children’s choices. Each location
chose its project after due consideration of the
size and terrain of its grounds, materials with
which it would have to work, the number and

’talents of the children and, finally, what they
wanted to do most.

Study and Planning

As soon as the directors had endorsed the idea
several hundred carefully selected books were bor—.
rowed from the Richmond Public Library and di-
rectors were invited to use the volumes to supple-
ment the typed materials prepared by the office.
The subject matter of the books ranged from cos-
tumes appropriate to the Show Boat era and songs
of the Wild West to tales of the pioneer days.

Every playground had its own individual prob—
lems but no particularly serious ones. During the
earlier days of the project the Recreation Division
sent a photographer to Monroe Park near the
center of the city to get a picture of the work
being done on Indian life at that playground. When
he arrived two little girls with pigtails and a little

3

4 TALES FROM A SOUTHERN CITY

red-headed boy were waiting, rather impatiently,
to pose among the tepees for the camera. Upon
inquiring about an empty costume folded neatly
on the ground, the photographer was told that its
future occupant, a little Greek boy named Roman
Mike, had shown up a few minutes earlier a little
smutty and had run home to bathe!

Meanwhile the two little girls sat down, Indian
fashion, in front of one of the tepees to smooth the
edges on their clay pottery in preparation for. the
picture. Just then one of the kids among the spec-
tators, perhaps a trifle envious, teased, “Whoever
saw a red-headed Indian?” pointing to the little
warrior who was busy arranging his war shield
( a paper—covered apple basket top). The others
took it up and agreed laughineg that they had
never seen anything but “black-headed” Indians,
except for bald—headed ones. Even without his war
paint the red-head seemed irked and his freckles
fairly stood out on his face.

“Never saw a red-headed Indian, huh?” he re-
torted, hand on hip. “Have you ever seen a red-
headed Italian ?" To these ten and eleven-year-
olds, a red-headed Italian was just another impos-
sibility and they laughed again, “Of course we
never.”

Southern Life was one aspect of Festival Week

“\Vell, you’re looking at a red-headed Italian
right now, and I’ll play like I’m an Indian, too, if
I want to!”

The Idea Catches On

It was amazing how the idea caught on. Some
playgrounds made everything used in their final
festivals although the central office was ready to
supply anything from public address systems to
produce wagons. The latter article was needed for
the big festival given by four playgrounds in the
East End of the city at Chimborazo Park. The
afternoon of the performance someone mentioned
that a covered wagon would add much to the
Pioneer Life exhibit of the festival. One of the
boy workers overheard the conversation and a
little while later as he rode down Broad Street on
his way to another playground with costumes he
happened to be reminded of the idea. Seeing an
old man with a wagon full of watermelons, he ap-
proached the traveling vendor and made a deal
with him. iThat night Chimborazo had a covered
wagon, but only after the watermelons had been
sold out.

The American Life idea was very adaptable to
all activities on the playground and added the
much-desired continuity to the playground pro-
gram. Crafts took on a new meaning as they fitted
into the stories of life during a particular'period of

our country’s his-

tory. Dances and
songs were lifted
from the past and
taught the boys
' and girls. They
learned the same
games their fore-
fathers had played
generations before
and listened to
tales of long—ago
days to “get the
feel” of the vari-

o u s p e r i o d 5.

Drama was a nat-

ural for the proj—

ect and was em-
ployed to great ex-

tent in the festi- ,
vals. 

To take some of f
the burden off the
director’s should-

RECREATION

 

TALES FROM A SOUTHERN CITY 5

ers and add to the
interest and edu-
cation of the chil-
dren, the Recrea~
tion Division as-
signed specialists
in various fields of
recreation to visit
the playgrounds
and instruct the
children in arts
and crafts, sports
and games, music,
songs, dances,
storytelling and
dramatics. The
boys and girls en-‘
thusiastically
awaited the ar—
rival of the spec-
ialists who brought
with them new
ideas for making
baskets, new dance
steps, and “catchy”
tunes.
Production Highlights

The finished product and the reaction of the
huge audiences proved that the project was worth
all that had been put into it. One of the outstand—
ing events was the Show Boat, constructed by the
Recreation Division, which docked at the play—
grounds giving festivals of Life on the Mississippi.
Pig-tailed, colored children cut some fancy cake—
walk steps while playground prima donnas sang
tunes reminiscent of the Mark Twain days on the
Show Boat replica.

Southern'Life was vividly portrayed on a set
simulating a plantation mansion. Steeped in Vir—
ginia’s traditions, these children from the colonial
capital of the South found the Southern Life
theme a “cinch.” Virginia reels were charmingly
presented on the greens of the parks and skits of
famous historical incidents added a spark of the
dramatic to the variety programs.

Captain John Smith, of Jamestown reknown,
was soon recognized as the most popular character
in the history of American Indians when the chil-
dren working on Indian Life were asked to offer
ideas for the final program. Fortunately, Poca-
hontas made her anticipated entrance just in the
nick of time at each location.“ Handcraft for this
project was anything but a problem and many a

APRIL 1946

 

Dances and costumes of a by—gone day

proud parent viewed his child’s efforts, on exhibit
during Festival Week.

The W ild West was interpreted very effectively
at one playground with a rodeo complete with
horses and ponies. Cowgirls and boys harmonized
on the well—known songs of the West and danced
the folk dances pOpular in this section. Dancing
and singing around camp fires with covered wagons
and ponies in the background typified Pioneer
Life festivals.

Evaluation

Besides being a lot of fun, and a real adventure
in recreation, festivals like those given in Rich—
mond during Festival Week seem to have a defi-
nite carry-over value in education. The educa-
tional purpose is two—fold. The children who .visit
the playgrounds learn worthwhile skills in many
activities and there is a natural tie—up with What
they learn during the school months. Further-
more, the public is given an opportunity and en—
couraged to see the results of the portion of their
taxes which are contributed to recreation.

The festival idea is not new with the Richmond
Division of Recreation. Festivals are becoming an

6 TALES FROM A SOUTHERN CITY

annual occurrence at the close of the -summer’s
program. Last year the timely theme of the Allied
Nations prevailed in the activities on the play-
grounds and was clinched with a beautiful “Allied
Nations Festival” in William‘ Byrd Park. Thou-
sands of spectators gathered to see the dancing.
singing, games and elaborate exhibits presented in
this miniature World’s Fair.

With the war over, keep your eye on Richmond
for bigger and better festivals!

In the Swim Again

By JACK KILPATRICK

T’s DIFFICULT to put your I‘ll]ng exactly on the
beginning of Richmond’s 1945 observance of
Swini for Health Week. Perhaps the real start
i‘vcan‘iiéi'ithree years ago, when the City Health De-
partment hung up a “N0 'Swimming” sign on
Shields Lake, the city’s large municipal swimming
pool in Byrd Park. Or perhaps the beginning
came last winter when the Mayor remembered the
desolate, abandoned lake, wondered if something
couldn’t be done, and working with the Director of
Health, the City Chemist and the Director of
Public Works, took the necessary steps to get the
lake back into operating condition for the 1945
summer season. Or perhaps it all started when the
promotion manager for a Richmond department
store suggested’that the store sponsor a grand re—
opening of the lake during national Swim for
Health W eek.-

Whateverjts beginning, the city’s Swim \Veek
observance provided entertainment for more than
100,000 persons who came to Shields Lake during
the week of June 25—July 1. More than this the
1945 Swim for Health Week provided free swim—
ming lessons for some 2,800 Richmond youngsters
and focused attention on “swimming for safety”
so thoroughly that a drop in the number of sum-
mer drownings has been observed.

How It Was Done

Richmond’s observance might well serve as a
pattern for other cities interested in promoting
water fun and safety. It calls for several factors—
an alert and energetic City Recreation Division, a
group of actively interested laymen, the coopera-
tion of various civic agencies, and a financial
backer willing to foot the bills for the general bet-
terment of the city.

In the Virginia capital the Bureau of Parks and

Recreation endorsed the offer of the department
store’s sponsorship. Its recreation superintendent,
Miss Claire McCarthy, took charge of the job and
swiftly lined up a committee of hRichmonders
headed by a local broker, and got in touch with
authorities of the Army, Navy, Red Cross, Y.M.
C.A., Y.W.C.A., Virginia Boat Club, Girl and
Boy Scouts, and the Richmond Ministerial Union.
A publicity committee was established and Swim
for Health Week was off to its start.

The actual directing staff consisted of the Super-
intendent of Recreation, the Program Supervisor
of the Recreation Division, the Promotion Mana-
ger of the department store sponsor, and the Gen-
eral Chairman of the Committee. Working directly
under them were an expert athletic director who
was to be in charge of the life-saving staff at the
lake, a paid publicity director who was a news—
paperman on one of Richmond’s papers, and a
publicity assistant from the staff of the Division. In
addition, a few special people were assigned to
individual tasks. I

Plans were laid to devote the entire month of
June to a learn-to—swim campaign. The Y.M.
C.A., annual week of free swimming lessons for
boys, June 11-18, coincided excellently with the
plan, and the Y.M.C.A. authorities agreed gladly
to join the City Recreation Division in its over-all
plan. The week of June 18-25 was set aside for
girls and women at the swimming pool in the mu-
nicipal auditorium. The final week of June was
scheduled for both boys and girls at Shields Lake

which had been certified for use by the Depart—
ment of Health.

Enrollment

A number of methods were used to enroll pupils
in the free swimming classes. Application forms
were printed and distributed to every school in
the city. Cards for boys and girls were made
available through principals and home-room teach-
ers. These cards were simple and to the point, re—
quiring only a child’s name, address, age and par-
ent’s signature.

An application form, identical-with that sent to
the schools, was printed in the local newspaper to—
gether with a story giving the dates of the swim—
ming lessons. This form was “plugged” over sev—
eral radio programs before it appeared in the
newspaper.

Application cards for business women and in-
dustrial workers were made available at large in-
dustrial plants, where Swim Week posters were

RECREATION

TALES FROM A SOUTHERN CITY 7

placed on bulletin boards. A special class for
young women was arranged in the evening. An
Industrial Committee, composed of representatives
of Richmond’s largest firms was responsible for
this promotion.

Numerous newspaper items promoted the free
swimming lessons and advised interested young-
sters or adults to telephone the Recreation Divi-
sion for an application form to be mailed them.

Colorful car cards were provided by the Vir-
ginia Transit Company, operators of the local
street car and bus system, advertising the dates
and places of the swimming lessons with a slogan,
“Get in the Swim for Safety’s Sake.”

Application forms almost swamped the Recrea-
tion Division. The requests came from every in-
come bracket, and from every geographical sec-
tion of the city. The Y.M.C.A. extended its an-

nual lesson period a full week to care for the I

pupils, and enrollment of girls and women finally
had to be closed for lack of teachers. A final count
showed 2,743 swimming students. A high per-
centage of them learned to care for themselves in

the water.

The learn-to—swim staff for boys was handled
entirely by the Y.M.C.A. The staff for girls was
organized and directed by the City Recreation Di-
vision and included a number of volunteer coaches
chosen from leading young wo'men swimmers in
the city.

The Final Week

While the work of preparing application forms
for swimming lessons was going forward in May,
a member of the committee was busy lining up
professional entertainers who would star in the
week-long swimming carnival. Buster Crabbe and
his water carnival proved to be available and the
troupe was signed for three shows. Ann Ross,
women’s national lowboard diving champion, and
her group were signed for three performances.
Arrangements were made to have the Spotlight
Band of the week at Shields Lake for a nation-
wide broadcast.

A good many headaches went into the final plan—
ning of the big week, but local agencies cooper-
ated with such smoothness that everything clicked
into place without serious difficulty.

The opening day—Monday, June 25—was set
aside as Boy Scout Day. Scouts engaged in pi-
rogue races, tilting contests, and a dramatized les-
son in water safety on a fishing trip. A model
sailboat race was put on by Cub Scouts.

APRIL 1946

Tuesday was Girl Scouts’ Day and included
such events as water contests, water games, a fire-
lside picnic and community sing. Hundreds of par-
ents and their friends visited the lake to partici-
pate in group picnics and to watch the fun.

Navy authorities from Camp Peary provided a
topnotch Show for Wednesday afternoon, featuring
swimming with flns, swimming with full packs,
rescue work, and comic diving. A special twenty
foot tower was erected from which the sailors
strung a large rope net to demonstrate abandon
ship tactics.

On Thursday and Friday afternoons came city-
wide swimming and diving championships. Midget
and intermediate classes competed on the first
afternoon, junior and senior classes on Friday.
The tournament was directed by the Y.M.C.A. and
entries were handled by that agency. The sports
pages of local newspapers cooperated with a num-
ber of stories concerning the swim meet, and the
number of entries proved greater than had been
expected.

On Friday night came the first of the big shows.
Weeks of work by carpenters and painters ended
just in time. A large floating stage was in place.
Nautical. flags and flags of many nations were
strung 'about the lake. A temporary grandstand
was erected to handle the crowds, and ushers and
ticket—takers were assigned to their posts. Systems
of spotlights and loudspeakers were in place. Even
the Weather Bureau cooperated with a prediction
of balmy weather.

Before an audience estimated by police at more
than 23,0oo——~the largest throng ever to attend an
entertainment in Richmond—the Vincent Lopez
orchestra presented a concert and Ann Ross went
through a breath-taking routine of diving. Spot-
lights and starlight and cool water created an at—
mosphere of gay relaxation which brought spon-
taneous, requests from the audience for more of

the same next year.
Saturday, June 30, saw new crowds assembled

on the banks of Shields Lake. The afternoon was
devoted to the Ann Ross and Buster Crabbe shows
and to a demonstration of water safety sponsored
by the Red Cross in cooperation with Navy au-
thorities.

The Ann Ross and Buster Crabbe shows were
repeated Saturday night before another audience,
and again weather conditions approached the ideal.
A local union orchestra provided music for the
show itself and a band from the Richmond Army
Air Base gave a forty—five minute concert before

8 TALES FROM A SOUTHERN CITY

\
the show began. The final Buster Crabbe show
came on Sunday afternoon. It was coupled with
an added local attraction in the form of a Caval-
cade of Swim Suits. This featured a group of
twenty Richmond girls modeling swim suits dat-
ing from 1890 to 1945.

Swim for Health Week ended Sunday evening,
July I, with a choral concert, sponsored by the
Richmond Ministerial Union. Local ministers
provided opening and closing prayers and a brief
sermon midway of the concert. The Ars Musica
Guild, the Richmond Opera Group, and the tele-
phone company’s glee club provided the singers
under the direction of a local choral director of
note. This closing event was among the most suc-
cessful of the entire week.

Plans are under way to repeat the swimming
festival of 1945. Parents of children who learned
to swim are among the most enthusiastic support—
ers of another Swim Week in 1946, and the entire
city is awake to “swimming for health~——for fun——
for safety.”

How We Improved
the Playground '

By ETTA ROSE BAILEY
Principal. Maury School

IT WAS A FAIRLY typical school playground—a
ragged, patchety plot of ground with a fringe
of grass around the edges and a middle hard sur-
faced with tar to minimize service in upkeep both
for teachers and janitorial staff. The children
played there—yes—depending upon a few pieces
of movable equipment such as balls and bats, a
stationary slide and a swing.

What happens to children on the playground is
just as important as what happens to them in the
classroom. Playground activities are as important
as a reading session, but sometimes it is even
harder to get equipment for playgrounds than it is
to get books for the schoolroom. As an environ-
ment for learning new skills, group cooperation
and good sportsmanship our playground had very
little to offer. We decided to do something about it.

The Beginning
In 1943 some of us-mteachers and the principal

—set about to improve the playground. We needed
more space and we needed equipment. We visited

several heads of industries where parents of our
children work. We told them about the lack'of
space and equipment and how important it was to
have a playspot for the children during the regu—
lar school day as well as for the extended school
program. We pointed out the advantages of this
program and how much it meant to the parents to
know that their children .were being cared for ade-
quately'and that they had a safe place to play.

Some of these business people gave us money.
One of them offered the services of his architect
to help us plan the playground as an artistic unit.
Another put us in touch with a welder who made
our pipe junglegym and a third told us about a
carpenter who would be invaluable. And so we
began.

The next year we visited other business men in
the community and obtained more funds, more ser-
vices and help. “Many of these men became inter-
ested in the importance of the playground and de-
veloped considerable pride in their contributions
to it. Although it is not completed, it is well under
way and the children and teachers love it.

Special Features

Near the school building four awning—covered
“shelters” provide shady spots for various kinds
of groups. Under one of these shelters a hammock
is swung and a second hammock has been installed

,on the opposite side of the yard. Groups line up

with “pushers” to swing the hammocks and every-
one has a turn. These groups usually carry on with
little supervision and the maximum of fun. Swing-
ing in a hammock is one of the most delightful
pastimes.

One shelter covers a large sandbox at which
children of all ages play. Digging and building in
sand are not the peculiar characteristics of the be-
low-sixes alone. Even twelves find much joy in
making sand villages, airports and beach landings
on Okinawa or Saipan. ,

A large picnic table with seats on all sides oc-
cupies another shelter. Often children eat their
lunches at this out-of-doors table. _Committees use
it for meetings, and parents and faculty members
use it for conferences. It also provides a good sit-
ting-down~place when one is tired of active games.
The quality of social life that goes on around the
table proves it to be an important part of the play-
ground equipment.

Four large white wooden lounging chairs with
small tables beside them form an enticing group of

(Con-tinned on page 53)
RECREATION

Playground

season

1945

HROUGH THE FALL and winter of 1945-46 re—

ports h'a've been coming in to the offices of the

National Recreation Association. They were
heartening reports. They came from north and
south, east and west; from large communities and
small; to tell the story of recreation in the United
States and Canada. Some of them told the story
of recreation on the playgrounds. It is not possi-
ble to copy them all into the pages of RECREATION.
They have, instead, been boiled down for sugges-
tions that might be of interest to recreation work-
ers on the playgrounds in 1946 or that might show
“how the wind is blowing” across the country.

Storytelling

A daily or weekly story hour seems to have been
a fairly regular playground feature in 1945. In
many communities the playground leaders and the
city librarians c00perated, the former benefiting
from the value of the latter’s specialized training.
At Grand Junction, Colorado, for example during
the last four weeks of the playground season, li-
brarians held a storytelling hour at each play-
ground each week.

Hamilton, Ontario, initiated a system of play-
ground libraries in addition to a daily story hour.
On each of the city’s twenty-one playgrounds chil-
dren brought their books to the leader. She ar-
ranged for lending the books from this common
pool to other children.

Oregon City, Oregon, had a thirty minute per—
iod three afternoons a week devoted to storytelling
for “toddlers,” children from 3 to 6 years old.

Decatur, Illinois, used storytelling as an im-
portant part of their general theme—international
play-ways. Their eight week season was divided
into live periods. The periods were assigned as
follows:

Africa Australia
Asia Europe
The Americas

APRIL 1946

 

Sports

Appropriate folk tales and other stories formed
a part of each period’s program. In addition De-
catur held a storytelling tournament for all the
youngsters who took part in the playground ac—
tivities. "

Radio and Dramatics

In Hamilton, Ontario, the playgrounds spon—
sored a weekly broadcast of information about
athletics and, in addition, were asked to provide
one of a series of programs put on by the Chil—
dren’s Aid Society. One of San Diego, California’s
playgrounds specialized throughout the season in a
program whose core was radio and dramatics.

First Year’s Record

Little Rock, Arkansas, had its first summer
playground program in 1945. The city voted a
budget of $10,481.16 for a playground season of
two and a half months. T 0 this was added $683.29
from the Recreation Trust Fund which had been
raised by men from Little Rock’s churches. This
total budget of $11,164.45 was spent on twelve
playgrounds which served 90,935 persons during
the summer. The staff of thirty-three full—time and
twelve part-time workers were drawn from school

9

10 PLAYGROUND SEASON— I945

teachers and recreation workers. In addition to a
supervisor of playgrounds there were supervisors
for arts and crafts and rhythmic games. Each
ground was open from 9:30 A. M. to 6 P. M. on
week' days.

Theiprogram of activities laid out for the sum-
mer included active and quiet games, folk songs,
rhythmic games and dances, storytelling, arts and
crafts, nature study, community service projects,
round—robin softball. Merit points were given
youngsters for attendance, service on committees,
behavior and participation and those boys and
girls who achieved a high score each week were
rewarded with swimming periods.

Community nights, held once a week, featured
such activities as Indian parties, circuses, stunt
nights, tacky parties, and a country fair. The final
program was a playground activity day.

Some Ideas They Had

In Oregon City, Oregon, a very special program
was arranged for small children, 3—6 years. Three
afternoons a week were allocated as their special
days. The program set up for them began and
ended with half an hour of wading. The hour be-

tween was divided equally between storytelling and
progressive'games. Mothers were welcome!

Hamilton, Ontario, boasted a Safety Patral, or-
ganized on a club basis, with 400 members. Grand
Junction, Colorado, featured joint playgronnd pie-
nics. La Crosse, \Visconsin held bi-weekly com-
munity nights. \Vinchester, Virginia, listed bubble
blowing and dress-up day as special events. De-
catur, Illinois, had a lantern parade. San Diego,
California, wound up its season with a Day of ’49
Festival and a craft exhibit.

In Reading, Pennsylvania, the summer’s theme
was “People Stay Where They Play.” Each week’s
program demonstrated in activities and crafts the
kinds of fun that can be had with the everyday
materials that we usually think of in other connec-
tions. The outline for the summer follows:

} Activities

Crafts

Fun with Textiles

Costume Show
Doll Show

Stuffed toys
Aprons
Napkins
Sewing cards

Doll shows

 

PLAYGROUND SEASON-w- 1945

Y
I:-

‘Zl -I  R
i  £-

11

 

Red Cross Photo by H’allace

lntergroup activities in Philadelphia

Fun with Paper
News-paper Party

Paper frolics
Papier-‘Vlaché
\Vastepaper baskets

Paper beads
Jointed 'bear

Fun with Linoleum

Activities
Linoleum hopscotch tournament
Finger painting
Block printing Crafts
Memo pads
Fun with Hosiery
k D . . .
SOC . ay Act1v1t1es
Stocking Parade
Stocking dolls
Crafts

’Stocking round weaving
Stocking balls

Finger painting contest on linoleum }

APRIL 1946

Fun with Wood

Nature Hike
Checker and Chess tournaments

Curtain pulls
Garden equipment

Activities

Book ends
Clothespin toys

P 1m with Leather

Adventures in Leatherland
Roof ball contest

\ctivities

Pins
F 1m with Clay

Clay modeling contest
Sandcraft contest

Gimp work

\Vallets

Book marks Crafts

} Activities

12 PLAYGROUND SEASON— I945

 

Asbestos and clay vases
Hot pads

Tile plaques

Clay modeling

Crafts

F 1m with Steel

Mike Kite
Kitchen Band Jamboree
Family Cookout

Bracelets } .

Activities

Tin Can Topping Crafts
Braid

Fmi with .4 ll Industries

Treasure Hunt Activities
Wool dolls

Paper plate holders
Finger painting

Woolen purses

Crafts

Pam with Plastics

Playground picnic x t. .t.
. C IV! 1e“
Hobby show . b

Charm bracelets

. Crafts
Pins

Fun with F elt

Hat shows

In Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the Junior Red
Cross put into action on the playgrounds a pro-
gram designed to attack the problem of inter-
group relations. The theme of the season was
“Now All Together,” and Junior Red Cross per-
sonnel made available to playground workers pro-
- gram material and suggestions for program
planning that contributed to this theme. The basic
tenets of sound inter-group relationships were

demonstrated in games and songs, movies and
crafts, festivals, bazaars, and exhibits.

Special Days

The variety of special events and special days
for playgrounds seems to be limited only by the
imagination of the playground worker. Here are
lists of special days used by two playgrounds on
opposite sides of the continent.

 

East OrangeI New Jersey

Fireplace Suppers

Playgrounds’ Parade

Marble Tournament

Doll Village

Treasure Hunt

Hop Scotch Tournament

Doll Show and Decorated Doll Carriage Parade
O’Leary Tournament

Festivals

Photography Exhibit

Athletic Badge Tests

Checker and Chess Tournaments
Kid Commando Dress Parade
Jacks Tournament

Boys’ Horseshoe Tournament—i

Los Angeles. California

Children’s Musical

Beach Outing

Junior Flower and Art Show

Hobby and Craft Show

Night Swim Outing

Mother-Daughter Dinner

Bicycle Field Day

Teen-Age Sports Fashion Show

Community Picnic ‘
Gymnastic Circus

RECREATION

PLAYGROUND SEASON— I945 15

Mother—Daughter Beach Picnic
Horseback Ride

Beach Party and Museum Visit
Doll Show and Parade
Teen-Town Hay Ride

Model Boat Regatta

VVeiner Bake

Croquet Tournament
Freckle and Smile Contest
Pet Show

Square Dance

Two Special Reports

Two special reports on. playground activities
were sent to RECREATION. The first comes from
Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and was sent us by  D.
Robbins and T. R. Farrell. The second comes
from William H. Anderson, Jr., and Denver,
Colorado.

Oak Ridge, Tennessee. During the summer
playground season June I 8 to August 25), twenty-
three centers or units and five wading pools were
operated. The attendance at the eleven year—round
centers during the period totaled 66,460. Added
to this were 40,385 children who attended the
part-time or summer units, making a grand total

of 106,845.

The personnel of the Playground Section for
r# period totaled fifty-eight, including eleven re-
diacements. The summer staff included the Super-

" or of Playgrounds; Program Director; Super-
msor of Music, specializing in folk dancing; Hand—
maft Supervisor; five Major Area Directors;

c5venty-two Playground Directors; sixteen Play-
ground Leaders; a Clerk and three Caretakers.

A safety campaign was launched during the
season and consultations were held over safety rules
"lllCh were incorporated in the playground man-

§aL As a result, only one minor accident occurred
m n the playgrounds during the summer season.

:3 \Veekly special events had a definite place on
Luthe program of each playground. A total of fifty-

two different activities were conducted during the
aseason with the Fourth of July celebration alone,
Oattracting 3,454 youngsters. A city-wide folk
Udance festival, consisting of a series of dances pre-
Esented by children of all ages, was one of the
Dfeatures of the playground season. All of the cos-
gitumes were made by the children and represented

the foreign countries from which the dances were

dramatized. The evening was climaxed with a

demonstration by one of the many adult Folk
Dancing Clubs.

APRIL 1946

A Mother Goose Festival was, held on the clos-
ing day of the summer program with several hun-
dred children participating. Each playground
dramatized one Mother Goose rhyme in panto-
mime, with a narrator reading the apprOpriate
words. Music for the program was presented by
the Junior Band, composed of youngsters between
the ages of eight and sixteen. The stories pre-

sented included: Old King Cole, Jack Be Nimble,

,Mary H ad a Little Lamb, Peter, Peter Pumpkin

Eater, The Three Bears, Georgie Porgie, Little

—. Boy Blue, Rock-a-Bye Baby, Little llfiss Milfj‘et,

Peas Porridge Hot, Jack and Jill, The Old Woman
in the Shoe, Mary, Mary Quite Contrary, and
Little Jack H oriier. ' a

A Youth Day gave the youngsters an oppor-
tunity to run the city. Some sixty boys and girls
between the ages of twelve and sixteen years were
distributed throughout the city in jobs of import—
ance, whereby they spent the day finding out just
how the community is organized. Representatives
of each playground were chosen by election at
their particular center or unit.

In the spring, the baseball-minded youngsters
were given an excellent opportunity of learning
the fine points of the game by attending an in—
structional school each Saturday morning. A staff
of four experienced ball players, two of whom had
a number of years of experience in the professional
game, was augmented by Johnny (Fireman) Mur-
phy, a former New York Yankees’ fireball slab
artist. -

Tot areas, some one hundred and thirty of them,
consisting of swings, see—saws, and sand boxes are
scattered throughout the area. Unsupervised, the
areas have proved to be quite popular for tots be-
low eight years of age. The parents of the neigh-
borhood aided in the general upkeep of these areas.

During the month of July, the various play-
ground and outdoor facilities under the direction
of the Physical Recreation Department attracted
a total of 103,608 participants.

Denver. Colorado. Denver’s organized recrea-
tion program is financed, controlled, and super-
vised jointly by the city government and the pub-
lic schools. The city and the school board each
provide facilities for the joint program. School
gynmasiums, pools, playgrounds, and classrooms
are available all year, while the city playgrounds,
swimming beaches and pools, golf courses, tennis
courts, square dancing pavilions, baseball fields,-
and other facilities are. also open for use much of

(Continued on page 51)

Music on the Playground

HAT IS YOUR playground M.Q. going to be
w this summer? (M.Q., in case you’re won-

dering stands for music quotient.) Will your
program rate among the musical morons or among
the musical geniuses?

Your youngsters don’t have to “play in the
band” or be members of a symphony orchestra to
put your playground in the higher brackets of the
music-on-the-playground list. A band, a symphony,
a string ensemble, a fine chorus are excellent if you
have at your disposal the necessary leadership to
develop them. But you can have music—good
music .—-e without them.

Rhythm Groups

You can make music with things as simple as
the “rings on her fingers and bells on her toes” of
the old nursery rhyme. If you can find—
and who of you cannot P—among your con-
stituents or your staff a person who can
carry the melody on a solo instrument, you_
can organize a rhythm group using for
instruments wood blocks or railroad Spikes
or pot lids or tin cans or bottles filled to
different levels with water. You can have a
shepherd’s pipe orchestra or a harmonica
band—a ukelele club or a toy symphony or
a drum corps or a kitchen band.

A comb band is fun for the youngsters
and has been for a long time. Remember
Robert Louis Stevenson’s poem beginning,
“Bring the comb and play upon it”?

Sing

You can sing. You can sing formally
with voices trained in careful rehearsals.
You can sing informally, by ear, if you like
———at opening and closing exercises—the old
and new favorites, hymns and spirituals,
action songs and animal songs, cowboy and
patriotic and sea songs, nonsense songs and
rounds.

You can dramatize songs~—Billy B 03; and
A Paper of Pins, for example—with two or
inore'youngsters acting out the story as the
song progresses. You can plan singing
games. A new book has recently been pub-
lished that will be invaluable for teaching
singing games to the younger groups. It is

14

 

a collection of thirty-seven games brought together
by Ed Durlacher and called the Play Party Boole.1
The music and words and directions for each game
are given along with illustrative “stick” figure
drawings in color. The music is arranged for easy
playing—no arrangements in multiple sharps or
flats!

You can arrange for “stunt” singing on special
occasions. A “barber shop” chorus can have fun
with songs of the gay nineties. Folk songs will
appeal to almost anybody and they can be found
to suit almost every range of ability. Family or
community nights are good occasions to get the

 

1 Published by Devin-Adair Company, New York City. $2.50.

Trio in Memphis

. 5”
~ ‘
. . ’ ‘5
-.. a“ 4,
Pe‘w 513. .g 'ngéli‘iis‘m‘

Courtesy Recreation Department, Memphis, Tenn.

w .-
4‘ WWW" ' Z‘q'nh..o-._,Mr—u_ .,
., J“

RECREATION

MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND 15

whole family—in fact the whole neighborhood——
singing together. A good song leader will help at
such a ’g'me. But people, especially young people,
usually like to sing in groups and are ready to
“open up” without too much urging.

Listening to Music

If you have—or can beg or borrow—a victrola
or record player you can add “music apprecia-
tion” to your active program. That is a formidable
pair of words for a delightful and simple occupa-
tion. Substitute enjoyment for appreciation and
you will have a more exact description. For rainy
days or for the hottest parts of any day a victrola,
set up in the coolest possible place, (If this is out-
of-doors and you are using an electric machine—-
don’t forget along extension cord I) will be a god-
send. Your supply of records should be carefully
chosen to meet the interests of the age group
listening.

In many cases a victrola and the right records
can add cubits to the stature of a story hour. The
right music can help set the mood for some of the
lovely stories that need a special “feel” if the audi-
ence is to get the most out of them. This kind of
thing is definitely “mood” music, but you can use
records, too, to add an authentic song or dance
tune to the telling of a folk tale. Sometimes you
can use the victrola as accompaniment for young-
sters singing such a song or humming such a tune.

Past Performance

No amount of theorizing about what may be
done is as valuable as the record of what has been
already proven successful. So, here are some
stories of past performances from a variety of
playgrounds, different in size and location and kind
of program. '

Waterloo, Iowa (5I,743).* The playgrounds of
Waterloo had a varied program ranging all the
.way from informal community sings to two bands
(for grade school and junior high school age level)
and a grade school string ensemble. The bands
numbered 150 boys and girls in their ranks. They
rehearsed twice a week and gave public perform-
ances. The string ensembles rehearsed once each
week under a high school music instructor. In ad-
dition youngsters had a chance to take part in
marching drill.

Here, too, the playgrounds had a special music
week. There were concerts and sings on the

 

—-—-a

*All population figures are from the 1940 census.

APRIL 1946

grounds during the week. As a linale each ground
had an afternoon devoted to songs and singing
games.

Clairfonl Pennsylvania (46,381). In addition to
special rhythm groups among playground chil—
dren, Clairton developed a singing game festival.
One team was chosen from each ground to take
part. Each team performed four singing games.
Judging was based upon four considerations.

Participation . . . . . . . . . .1 point for each participant
General performance. . .20 points
Singing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20 points
Enjoyment . . . . . . . . . . . .20 points

Wilkes-Barre and Wyoming Valley. Pennsylvania.
The Playground and Recreation Association of
Wyoming Valley serves an area which includes
eight towns ranging in size from 1,339 to 86,236.
One year a bulletin was issued each week to all
playground leaders listing songs appropriate for
the bi-weekly special t0pic. Here, for those of you
who might be interested, are the specific selections
chosen:

Opening Week
Hello I
Howdy 
Get Acquainted
All IIWant is Sociability
We’re Here for Fun
The Donkey
In the Evening by the Moonlight
Wait for the Wagon
Sing-a-Ling-a-Ling
Short’nin’ Bread
Taps

Organization Week

Get Together
Shuckin’ of the Corn
Red River Valley
Walking Song
Sourwood Mountain
MacNamara’s Band
Rig-a-J'ig-Jig

Music Week
Walking at Night
Cielito Lindo
Night Herding Song
One Morning in May
The Crow
Walking Song
The Keeper'
Tiratom'ba
Santa Lucia
Down in a Coal Mine

Circus Week

Man on the Flying Trapeze
A Thousand-Legged Worm

(Continued on page 48)

Sampling
The Summer Playground Notebodk ,
1946

Posters, of various flags :-
Colonial flag, I775
Rattlesnake flag, 1775
Old Glory, 1946

Posters advertising the program
Be Very Gay!

Children, and adults, too, react quickly to atmos-

phere.
" And then, what?

FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION . . . and
whatever you have, let it be different!

Red, White, and blue—plenty of red, White,
and blue——for your decorations.

Large placards in the shape of the Liberty Bell.

 

Many flags (borrowed, if you must, from the
American Legion or the Veterans’ Adminis—

tration) .

Red, white, and blue on your bulletin board. .
DO have a reception committee, quite a large one.

' Let each child wear a red, white, and blue
flower, or badge, or belt, or shoulder decoration.
Make everyone feel very welcome. It will be

Flags (paper ones), and ribbons, and pictures of
the American scene:

“This is my Country.”

Three crayon lines of red, white, and blue, at the
side of notices; or underscoring a title with these
three colors will change the appearance of an
ordinary announcement vividly.

DO display all verses of The Star—Spangled Banner.

DO diSplay American poems, and the Declaration
of Independence.

DO display informative lines:
“July 4th is Independence Day, a
legal holiday in every state and
territory of the Union.”

“The Star-Spangled Banner, the national
anthem of the United States of Ameri-
ca, was made such by an Act of Con-
gress, March 3rd, 1931.”

DO dress up the sandpile:
“Holding the Fort” . . . “An early
American Home” or
with models of shields and flags.

DO let the children make red, white, and blue

paper lanterns (for decorations only)
——a piece of paper, colored red, white,
and blue, folded, marked and ready to
cut makes
Drums—from cereal boxes
Large, red firecrackers (for decorations only)
HatsmGeorge Washington, Pilgrim, Indian

.16

easy because you WILL be genuinely glad to
have them there. This is the one big legal holi-
day of the summer and you will want to make
the most of it.

About that program :

Fun, oh my yes! But, stress patriotism all the
way through. '

Keep it different from last year. You may find 
it necessary to have part of the program the I
same, but produce a few surprises, too.

Don’t let them feel they know what is coming.

You may want a playground parade for the very '
young, All dressed up, of course-— Miss
Liberty, Uncle Sam.

Or, maybe a patriotic parade on wheels. Any-
thing on Wheels.

Decorations are a MUST.

You may want extra emphasis on flag raising and
flag lowering—lovely, solemn ceremonies, with
color guards, pledges to the flag, and such songs
as There Are Flags in Many Lands and I t’s a
Grand Old Flag.

READ “The American Flag” by Henry Ward
Beecher

“The Flag, the Old Flag”-by John A. Dix
“.The Call to Colors” by Gunterman
“Flag Song” by Lydia Ward

RECREATION

g You may want games and

I races and relays; an
O’Leary contest ; special
track events; the big
softball game; a patri—
otic band—even if it’s
only a Comb Band!

You may want an orderly

evening program such as
this :

   
   

1. Song . . .lee Star—Spangled
l Bamzer
‘ . 2. Reading of the Declaration
of Independence

3. \Var Tunes.....The Har-
monica Band

4. A Play....“Tumult in the

   

SAMPLING

Each year since I943 the National Recrea-
tion Association has gotten out weekly sugges-
tions on organization and program for sum-

April 26.

THE SUJI/IMER PLAYGROUND NOTEBOOK— I946 17

shared by the finders——
lollypops, chocolate
buds, balloons, peanuts.

City”
5. Address by prominent
speaker (10 minutes)
6. Tableaux
7. Closing Song . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. America

You will find the best ideas here:
Bugle Cali: of Liberty, by Southworth and Paine for
poems and recita'tions
The Days We Celebrate, (Celebrations for Patriotic
Days) by Robert Schaufiler. “Tumult in the City"
is found in this.

 

Available from the National Recreation Association

Three Cheers for the Red, White, and Blue
(Suggestions for the 4th, MB 1524, free)

Freedom Means All of Us Everywhere
(A program for patriotic holidays; MP 361,
price $.15)

Our Patriotic Holidays
(Program material including craft ideas, MP 308,
price $.15)

“I Hear America Singing”
(Original pageant written by children for children,

MP 340, price $.10)
M ORE suggestions? Ask your neighbor!

A Treasure Hunt

Or two or three or four treasure hunts!

They are far more fun if you plan them yourself,
with originality and imagination. YOU know the
physical layout of your city—the spots of interest
—the names of all the good-natured persons who
will cooperate. Go ahead! Plan one now: TRAILS,
CLUES, PRIZES.

Good points to remember:

I. Crossing streets should be avoided entirely
for younger children and as much as pos—
sible for the older group.

2. Valuable prizes are undesirable. It is best to
have something for everyone -—— generously

APRIL 1946

mer playground leaders—especially for those 3' Finding the treasure
in small communities. This year. again, the sometlmes causes
Summer Playground Notebook will be sent scramble trouble. This
out for each of sixteen weeks beginning on can be avoided by hav-
ing real treasure in the
On these pages of RECREATION you will find hands of the recreation
a sample of the Notebook. Because the ma- director and having
terlal is now in the process of printing the Winners find the last
Illustrations are necessarily omitted. lt ‘l’l‘IlS . . .
.. important shp or t1cket.
sample leads you on to want more of the ,
same" you may have it by sending $|.00 and 4- It 15 heleUI '50 have
your request to be put on the mailing list for written Clues firme at-
the Summer Playground Notebook, I946. tached to something
to the National Recreation Association' 3|5 solid.
Fourth Avenue, New York IOI New York. ‘ , . .
3. Where thls 18 not pos—

sible, it is helpful to
have some designated
person in each group responsible for putting
clues back in place.

There are many types of Treasure Hunts:
Long, short, easy, difhcult
HAVE YOU TRIED THESE?

Playground

Entirely on the ground.
“Under a stone near the swing”

“At third base”
“In the hands of a red—haired girl”

Neighborhood

“Around the block”

“In Helen Smith’s mail box”
“At 12th and Cliff streets”

Nature

Organize two groups, each with leader and
treasure.

Designate a final meeting place where both
groups shall meet.

Each group starts, at a signal, hides the treas-
ure somewhere and then lays a trail from the
treasure to the designated meeting place.

Clues should contain descriptions of nature
objects, direction finding, Indian language and
the like.

A false trail is fun. Go a short distance only
and then give corrected directions: “Fooled
you! Go back to the gate.”

After groups-meet at the chosen spot, they start
back over their opponent’s trail under an op—
ponent leader.

18 SAMPLING THE SUMMER PLAYGROUND NOTEBOOK— 1946

First group to find the treasure gets something
EXTRA!

Without Clues

The younger children like this. Treasure, such
as candy kisses, is hidden all over the playground
in many odd places. At a signal, the group
searches.

Action Hunt

A group is provided with a map and a leader.
Fun along the way and a reward of some sort at
the end.

Hunt with Purpose

Announce a treasure hunt for small pencils,
costumes, old tennis balls—anything that is badly
needed on the playground. Organize a group of
older children to make the rounds of homes in the
neighborhood. No begging—w—just a simple request,
by the group.

A Variety of Methods

I. Simple directions: .
v Each child, couple, group, receives a direct
order: _
' “Look beneath the elm.”
2. Simple rhymes:
“Within a hundred feet or more
You’ll find a nail, upon the door;
Upon this nail you’ll find a shoe.
Lift it up, and there’s your clue.”

3. Riddles:

Four lines of The Star-Spangled Banner—-
(at the flag pole)

Bill Tilden, Helen Wills Moody, Ellsworth
Vines—(on the tennis court)

“I love hot dogs”—(under a picnic table)

There is a candy named for him— (under
one of the bases—Babe Ruth)

How dry I am—(under a cactus plant)

4. Indian signs: _
There are a number of books on Indian sign
reading.
5. Confetti:
A trail is blazed by using torn newspapers.
The fun comes when false trails lead to wrong

places. Hunters find their way back by some
such method as

“If this note is on a maple tree, go 50
steps North.

If this note is on an oak tree, go 100
steps South.”

(the trail will be resumed there)

'1
\

In one town the treasure was found around an
outdoor fireplace and guess what “it was? Hot
dogs, hamburgers, rolls, tomatoes, milk and
PARENTS who were in on the secret!

In another town, reporters from competitive
newspapers helped lay the trails. Talk about
publicity! I

In still another town, clues were held by wheel-
chair'invalids, by two elderly ladies who couldn’t
get around ,very much, by a little boy who had
broken his leg.

And in your town —?

“A LITERARY TREASURE HUNT
' NEXT FRIDAY”

Is it a date?

A Storytelling Festival

It is so easy and so worthwhile! .

Select good storytellers, from the playground staff,
the schools, the libraries, and other available
sources. ' . '

These persons dress in costumes representative
of the stories each is to tell. You might choose
six of the following classifications (or make up
your own) : '

Gypsy . . . Cowboy . . . Indian . . . Aviator . . .
Pioneer . . . Scientist . . . Fairy . . . Mother Goose
. . . Explorer . . . Irish girl '
or French
or Russian

or Chinese.

Each takes her place somewhere on the play—
ground, not too close together. The festival
should be held in the early evening and should
be limited to about 45 minutes. All stories
should be short and all should be approximately
the same length.

At a signal from the leader, children go to one
storyteller for their favorite type of story. Each
group must wait where it is until the leader
gives another signal, when they may make an—
other choice.

Orderly, colorful and great fun!

Use “Favorite Stories Old and New,” compiled
by Sidonie Gruenberg. Doubleday, Doran and
Company. $2.50. Try: '
The Twins and Tabf§a—(a cat story)

The Cap That Mother Made—(a Swedish story)
Elizabeth—The C are Ghost—(a funny ghost story)
Ask Mr. Bear—(a laughter story)

The Show Maiden—(a Russian folk tale)
Why the Baby Says “Gob”—(an Indian story)

Or make your own list! It’s fun!

RECREATION

 

By DAISY HUNTER

Recreation Department
Memphis. Tennessee

HE PROJECTS carried out by the chil—
dren of the Memphis Playgrounds
have included Fairy Tales, Story
Book Land, Countries of the World,
American Indians, America the Beautiful,
Flags of Freedom, Our Armed Forces and
Islands ’of the Pacific. During the 1945
summer season, the Recreation Depart-
ment'of the Memphis Park Commission
decided to give the children an oppor-
tunity to select their own project. With
the assistance of the Memphis Youth Service
Council, live subjects were chosen and printed
ballots with explanatory remarks were delivered
to the schools by members of the Recreation staff.
The contest was given publicity in the local news-
papers and announced on various radio programs.
The live subjects and the result of the voting:

 

Votes
Wings of the World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..4,225

Meet the 48 States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..3,474

Our Next Door Neighbors . . . . . . . . . . “2,395

Rivers of the World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..'.1,752

Romance of World Trade . . . . . . . . . . . ..1,702
13,548

The hrst step in carrying out the chosen proj—
ect, “Wings of the World,” was to assign each
playground to an airport or airbase in one of the
countries of the world. These bases included
Alaska, United States, Chile, Egypt, the Philip-I
pines, Bahama Islands, Brazil, Australia, China,
the Hawaiian Isles, the Canal Zone, Russia, French
West Africa, Portugal, the West Indies, Mexico,
Italy, the British Isles and India. The playground
children become familiar with the air routes to
and from the country, types of cargo flown in and
out, the people and their modes of life.

APRIL 1946

 
   
   
  
    
 

        
 
  
   
 
 
  

f.

arms; amen
PROJ Et’ T5

,N'f . Ragnar .wwGall rate I,
  WINGS GFTHEWGaLD ii I

I  OuKNExI limited“): 
5" Cassia “IIMEX g 

2;? .HEEI m: 5‘8 557;: a
 Kittens GFIIhs   v
( raw   ’f f” :

   

   

Playground children in Memphis
choose a project for the summer

Special Projects

Three special projects become part of the crea—
tive play program. These included:

A Scrap Book. A book measuring nine and a
half by thirteen inches was made of construction
paper. A short account of the air routes and of
the country of the home air base was written and
illustrated by the children. The front of the book
was decorated with a design appropriate for the
home air base of each playground.

Wings of the World. A small wooden boat was
provided for each playground. The children dec-
orated the boats in a manner typical of the coun-
try they represented. The boats were launched
with appropriate ceremonies during Wading Pool

Carnival Week. At the Play Festival they rode
the waves of Rainbow Lake in Overton Park and

were judged.

War Saving Stamps and Bond Booths. Each play-
ground erected a booth where they sold stamps
and bonds. The children of the neighborhood
brought scrap lumber and corrugated boxes and

, constructed the booths so they could be folded and

19

20

put into the storeroom when not in use. The
designs painted on the booths carried out the
\Vings of the World theme.

Parachutes and Model Planes

The Creative Play Department also sponsored a
Miniature Parachute Contest and Model Plane ex-
hibits on every playground. Every boy was en-
couraged to make a parachute for the contest. A“
light closely woven cloth was used in making the
canopy which could not exceed thirty-five inches
in diameter. Eight shroud lines were attached to
the inner edge of the canopy. The diameter of the
canopy (cut circular) governed the length of the
shroud lines. A small vent in the center of the
canopy helped to stabilize the parachute. The
weights used were less than an ounce. The con-

test washeld in a large open place, with a circle.

seventy-five feet in diameter drawn in line. All
parachutes were launched by hand from the ground.
They were judged for distance, accuracy, time and

the best build.

Dramatics

The Dramatic Department carried out the theme
by sponsoring a contest to select a pilot of the
“Flying Carpet,” 3. make-believe airplane. It was
a magic plane with room for all who wanted to fly
away to explore
the land of make-
believe. Each
playground sel-
ected one con-
testant,who com-
peted on June I 5
by reciting some
small bit of prose
or poetry over
the radio. The
one judged best
became the pilot
and made his solo
flight the follow-
ing Saturday.

Sf he boys and
girls' who were
interested in
s t o r i e s a n d
novels about air-
planes and the
folks who pilot
them were fur-
nished with a list

IVINGS OF THE LVORLU

of books available at the libraries. During the play-

ground story hours some of the following stories -

were told:
Sky Freighter \Vacs at Work
Sky Hostess Wonderful \Vings
Sky Service Sky Roads

Every playground sang a project song typical of
their airbase. The playground whose airbase was
in Arabia sang the Shiek of Araby, Africa’s song
was Down in Jungle Town, Alaska's Winter
W onderland, and all the others were equally ap-
prOpriate. These songs were sung on all special
programs and at the Play Festival.

Grand Finale

To make the project attractive enough to hold
the interest of every child until the very day of the
Play Festival, the Recreation Department with
the assistance of the Memphis Youth ServiCe Coun-
cil arranged for a grand climax to the summer
season. Chicago and Southern Airlines agreed to

  

1

give the sixteen best all-around playground chil- '

(‘lren an hour’s ride. The best all-around play-
(C‘untimrcd on page 54)

All seats were occupied but some of the
occupants were too small to show in the picture

 

RECREATION

 

Now All Together
. A Festival of Fellowship

By ELIZABETH HINES HANLEY

Playground and Recreation Association

Philadelphia. Penna.

A Suggested Program for Closing Day

ETTING. A large open space outdoors, or on an

S adequate stage indoors, with a backdrop of

drapes Or other appropriate kind, in the Center

of which is a large map of the world. A small

raised platform is at center of the stage, and there
are entrances up center, and at right and left.

CAST. America, Fellowship, symbolical or na-
' tional representatives of“ the pe0ples who first set-
tled this country, in the following order: Spanish,
English, Swedish, French, Danish,_Irish, Portu—
guese, Scotch, Polish, Italians, Germans, Norwegi-
ans, Dutch, Greeks. These characters enter first
‘ as they are mentioned in the Prologue, and on the
following lines, “And all the othershseeking free-
dom for their souls, ,
‘ Or opportunity to earn their daily bread,
And give their children evermore their own home-
stead.”

The participants are the descendants of all these
settlers, of the present generation. The cast may
'be increased or decreased as practicable.

' PRELUDE: National Anthem.

ACTION: Immediately following the Anthem, the
participants enter and form right and left of the
stage, marching on to the music of M 3: Own
America, then they sing the song as America
enters up center and goes down to the platform
and stands. When she is there and the song is
finished, Fellowship enters right, walks down
center and delivers the Prologue.

PROLOGUE :

Now All Together here in unity they stand
Descendants of the Makers of this mighty land,

Who toiled and fought and died that it should be

A land where all could live in equal liberty.

From every clime and shore they came to find a place
Where all could live as one together, by God’s grace.
So, ventured bold explorers from the shores of Spain,

APRIL 1946

The Swedish, English, Dutch, the French, the Norse,
the Dane,

The Germans, Portuguese, the Irish, Greeks, the Poles,

And all the others seeking freedom for their souls,

Or opportunity to earn their daily bread,

And give their children evermore their own homestead.

(It is suggested that here should enter the
Scotch, Russians, Chinese, Negroes, Mexicans,
Japanese and South Americans, and others settled

in the locality where the festival is given.)
All this they did through struggle and through stress,
With Liberty, Equality and Happiness
Bequeath to all of them in perpetuity,
To hold a sacred trust as long as time shall be.
But more than all, Together Now we stand for peace
With all those peoples who decree that wars must cease,

And evermore throughout the Universe there’ll be
Among all men the bond of true fraternity.

Fellowship goes up center and takes his place
beside America on the platform.

NOTE: The participants may be seated on low
fanned-out benches slightly off stage, at right and
left, or, if this is not practicable, they may enter
from right and left for their performances. Seated
in view, they add color to the scene, and maintain
better order.

ALL PARTICIPANTS: Sing I Hear America Sing-
ing, and on the last line, Fellows/zip comes down

center and says :

Children of all nations learn the way

To live together in their daily play,

And come to understand that they must see

This land is always for the brave and free.
(He steps back to his place at center)

ALL PARTICIPANTS: Form right and left of cen—
ter and sing:
(Tune from The Chocolate Soldier)

See, see NOW ALTOGETHER here,

From everywhere
\Ve have gathered in fellowship,

21

22 NOW ALL TOGETHER

Each one to share

Son-gs, games, dances and stories

That they\have added to this Nation’s glories,
So it may “be

Truly blended together

As one country.

(At the end of the song, all form a huge ring
and give a typical playground ring game. This
may be singing or tag, etc. The following pr0gram
is suggested) :

Here We Go ’Round the Mulberry Bush, ad lib
but not over three minutes. At the end of the
game, a group runs to the center and one says:
That is like a game that the children play in Iraq.
It goes this way:

(Sings to the tune of Mulberry Bush)
There was a man who had six girls, .
Had six girls, had six girls. "
There was a man who had six girls,
And that is how it was.

One of them was a washerwoman,

A washer'woman, a washerwoman,
One of them was a washerwoman,
And that is how it was.

(The action is pantomimed for each girl’s work,
as: baker, dressmaker, dancer—this should .be de-
scriptive of an Arab dancer, the left hand on hip,
the right above the head, fingers snapped while
the feet stamp in rhythm. This would be an appro-
priate ending for the game.)

(The larger outer group should clap and keep
time to the rhythm. When this game is finished,
the group dances back to the larger, and another
smaller group goes to center, and one says) : .

There is another game like one of ours that is
played in Latin America. It is called The Foun-
tain, and is played like London Bridge. We’ll show
: you.

(They form and play the game for two or three
minutes.)

(The players form an arch and secretly take the
name of a flower, and two make the arch while the
others march under in a long line, each holding the
skirt or jacket of the one in front. They sing as
they march to the tune composed for it. This is in
Children’s Games from M any Lands, by Nina
Millen, published by the Friendship Press, Inc.,
New York City.)

The Fountain

Skip lively now, skip lively now,
The fountain has been broken.

(The two girls'who form the arch sing the next
two lines) :

Skip lively now, skip lively now,
We’ll have to have it mended."

(The ones who are marching sing) :
Skip lively now, skip lively now,
What shall we use for money?

(The arch-makers sing) :
Skip lively now, skip lively now,
We’ll have to use an eggshell.
(Then every one sings the last four lines to-

gether) :
Oh me, oh, me, oh, my,
The queen will come today.
The ones in front may all pass 1by,
But the last one has to stay.

(Everybody passes under the arch except the
last in the line, who is caught. She is asked to
choose which {lower she will have, then gets be-
hind the girl whose flower she has chosen. When =
all have been chosen, each child puts its arms
around the waist of the one in front, and the sides
pull to see which is the stronger, as in London
Bridge. Don’t repeat until tiresome.)

(As in the preceding game, the larger outer
group claps in time to the rhythm.) ‘

(The group goes back to the larger one, as the
former did, then another smaller one goes to the
center and one says) :

Here is one played in China that is called Catch-
ing the Dragon’s Tail, and it is like our Horse
Dodge ball game, without the ball. (The players
form a line representing the dragon, with a se-
lected one for the head and tail, each.) The Head
puffs and blows; the Tail lashes right and left to
escape the Head, until the signal “Go!” is given.
The leader counts “em” (one), “er” (two), “san”
(three), “130” (go). Then the Head turns round
toward the Tail and tries to catch it. The whole
body must move with the head and remain un-
broken. The minute any one lets go of the shoul-
ders in front of him, he breaks the Dragon’s body
and the Dragon dies. A new Dragon is then
chosen. If the head player touches the tail, he may
continue to be the head. If the body breaks before
he touches the tail, the head becomes the tail, and
the next in line is the head, and so on until each
in turn has a chance to be the fiery head and the
lashing tail, or as long as desirable. There should
not be many in line, or the game should not be
continued until all are used, but stopped before it
becomes tiresome. (Also in C hildren’s Games‘
from M any Lands.)

(The group returns to the larger one, and all
then form into sides for Three Deep, or other

RECREATION

 

NOW ALL TOGETHER 23

typical American playground game. When this is
finished, the entire assemblage return to seats pro-
vided for them, and sit there until their episode 1s

announced by Fellowship, then go to center of

stage'to, present it. This program may be changed
to such numbers as may be desired, but should be
based on the idea of fellowship, and bring out all
the nationalities represented in the festival.)

FELLOWSHIP: (Comes down center and speaks).

As hasjheen shown, the games of children everywhere

Are much the same, and they, themselves, are too —-
In everything, it they are 'black or brown or fair,
They are in mind and spirit like to you.
They run and leap and shout and sing and dance and
play '
In all the lands wherever they may 'be,
- As joyously as you are doing here today
In this, our blessed country of the brave and free.
If, then, in play there is this bond Of brotherhood,

Between the children of each varied land,
There is no reason that in all that’s right and good,

We should not stand together in a band
Of unity throughout the world for every age,
So, as’ 'O’N'E WORLD there shall be, too, ONE LIFE

And'ALL TOGETHER “we shall write On history’s
page -

THE END to all that makes for racial strife.

AS demonstration of the way this can be done,

All races bring their cultures here today,

Theiir'l'ilances, games and songs and blend them into one

To shake the pattern of the AMERICAN WAY.

(He then steps back to his position at center,
and the Leader of the group to present the first
episode steps down center and speaks) :

Episode One

Legendary First Americans—By the Shores
of Gitche Gumee

LEADER reads :

f‘.By the shores of Gitche Gumee,
33y the shining Big-Sea-Water,
I Stood the wigwam of Nokomis.”
'I—Iiawatha lived there with her,

(Nokomis and Hiawatha enter as he reads and
spread a rug before the door of an imaginary wig-
wam and sit 'down on it.)

" And she taught him many things,
" Names and language of the’ birds,
Of the .beasts that roam the forest,

(In pantomime or with actual bow and arrows
she teaches him how to shoot the deer and bear;
how not to harm the birds and small animals.) -

Songs and games of little children,
 And how to make them all his brothers.

(Children run on and she teaches them songs,
games and dances. Playing fair and as fun.)

: APRIL.1946

SUGGESTED PROGRAM :

I. Game—(This may be led by Nokomis or Hia-

watha.)
SONG

Follow my leader where’er he goes;
What he’ll do next, nobody knows.

(In the game, all must go where the Leader
goes, dance as he dances, move the arms, hands
and feet as he does. The skipping and dancing
must be in exact time with the song that all must
sing. The game gives Opportunity for fancy steps,
winding, intricate figures, “cutting capers” and.
merry pranks. Found in Indian Games and Dances
and Native Songs, by Alice E. Fletcher. 2. The
Snake Dance can evolve naturally in this game,
and would be long enough, and take the group
easily back to their seats off stage.

(Leader from second group steps down stage
and announces) :

Episode Two
An Irish Tradition from Donegal

A custom that has come from Eire

Is the carnival or fair,

Where with dance and game and song,
People mingle in a throng

Of friendliness and happy play,

As we are doing here today.

(The group runs on singing, Corrie to the Fair,
through the second stanza, and, if possible, there
should be a fiddler as mentioned in the first line,
and a drummer beating as in the third line. Then
there should be “racing and chasing, and round—
abouts turing to left and to right,” in arspon-
taneous dance, going from that into the. following
program or similar one) :

I. Irish Washerwoman, jig. 2. When Irish Eyes
Are Smiling, song and .clog. 3. Modern song and
dance, Too-ra-loo-ra—loo-ra.

(The group runs or dances back to position off

stage, and the Leader of the next group goes down
center and announces) :

Episode Three
An English Heritage—May Day Revels

This was the day when people came
To join in song and dance and game,
And strike the key-note of good cheer
For every day throughout the year.

(Group comes on singing, Come, Las'sies and
Lads, or Here We Come A-Maying, and go into
the May Pole Dance to the music of In An English
Garden, or other suitable composition. The Pole

(Continued on page 52)

What They Say About Recreation

ll LAY, it should never be forgotten, is defined
by attitude rather than by product. Leisure
should supply the opportunity for a fresh,

vivid, and creative orientation of man in a new

world rich in cultural opportunity beyond any

civilization the world has ever seen.”.—Pennsyl-
vania Planning.

“Recreation should ‘carry on’ where formal edu-
cation ends.” —_1945 Annual Report, Recreation
Department, La Crosse, Wis.

“Happiness is achieved for the young child
through finding a harmonious balance between the
inner self—his capacities, his abilities, and his ob-
jectives—and the world in which he must live.”—

lV'lllard C. Olson-

“No matter how safe we may feel our play
areas to be, constant check-ups are essential. Let’s
start now!”

“Both for his growth and security every boy and
girl in his childhood and adolescent years needs an
outlet for his energy, a chance to play under decent
circumstances with other boys and girls.”—Hand-
book on Interstate Crime Control.

“All civilizations are living wealths that have
been harvested from the deep soil of leisure.”—
Sir Rabindranath Tagore.

“N 0 man ought to play any game unless he tries
his very best to win, and no man ought to play
unless he can take a defeat cheerfully.”—From
Christian Century.

“The children are worth while. Nothing on earth
is more worth While than they. They are the in-
carnate future tense of mankind. . . . \Vhile there
is childhood there is liOpe. We must not let the
children down.”-—Harry Emerson Fosdick.

“Amusement and recreation are the very things

that make our working hours prolitable. He who
carves so steadily that he has no time to sharpen

his knife works with dull tools and cannot make
much headway.” '

24

“The pursuit ‘of a hobby should be full of fun
and enjoyment." No one should try to follow a
hobby that does not afford a full measure of en-
joyment of life.”—L. V. Loy.

' “What is the real job of the leaders in any com-
munity, urban or rural? It isn’t to indoctrinate
the public as to how to use its spare time but
rather to see to it that the community provides a
balanced ration of opportunity as good in quality
and as wide in range as its own financial resources
permit, leaving the individual citizen a free choice

of selection,-for rejection is also his right.”—
Frederick P. Keppel.

“. . . In the past there were two types of people
who enjoyed leisure—the aristocrats and the saints
. . . But in the modern day leisure is going to be
widely diffused. It is obviOus that all classes are
going to have leisure.”—Vida D. S cudder.

“Psychologists who have studied women in busi-
ness declare that most women fail to advance be-
cause they don’t know how to play. For this rea-
son I commend mischief.”—Catherine Oglesby,
Associate Editor, Ladies’ Home Journal. -

“The pursuit of happiness always has been the
chief occupation of mankind. And each of us must
be his own judge of the kind of happiness he pre—
fers.”———Earnest Elmo Calkins.

“In its heart the world cares for little but play;
but in its life it does hardly anything but work,
but the world has forgotten that the reason of'its
work is play.”—Riclzard Le Gallienne.

“Man must be free to use his own powers in his
own way. Free to think, free to speak, and to wor-
ship__. Free to plan his own life. Free to use his
own initiative. Free to dare in his own adventure.
It is .the essence of true liberalism that these free-
doms are limited by the rights of others."—Her-
bert H mom:

“I am astounded how little of our municipal ex-\'

penditure goes to an activity in community life it
which is so much of life itself.”—lV1'lliam.-f. lVals/z.

" RECREATION

A Public Agency and a Private Agency
Work Together

By HELENA G. HOYT and LESTER L. SCHAEEEER~
Neighborhood House

Syracuse. New York

E DISCOVERED what we had in common and
W joined hands to solve a problem. N eighbor-

hood House, a member agency of the Com-
munity Chest, and the Syracuse Municipal Recre'i
ation Commission both offer leisure time services
on the west side of Syracuse. We have a common
goal—to serve that community to the best of our
ability.

Prospects for developing a full summer pro-
gram did not look very bright for either of us as
the warm summer days approached. Neighbor-
hood House lacked adequate outdoor play space.
The Municipal Recreation Commission faced the
summer’s work in a traditionally difficult area with
a shortage of experienced leadership. For either
of us to have gone along independently would
have meant definite restrictions in our programs.
Since we operate in the same general area, unco-
ordinated programs would run the danger of over-
lapping and competing.‘ The young people of the
neighborhood would have been the losers. Hence,
we got together to plane a cooperative program.

Taking Stock

Our first job was to take stock of our assets
and liabilities. The Recreation Commission had
the use of a school play area, nicely adapted to
softball games and active group games but with
no shelter or any other physical equipment. N eigh-
borhood House has a small backyard, practical
only for the youngest age group, plus limited in—
dor facilities.

The Recreation Commission had a playground
director for this area whose first experience as a
recreational supervisor was to begin this summer,
but who had the advantage of being a resident of
the community and thus knew the young people.
Neighborhood Heuse had just added to its staff,
on July I, a professionally trained and experi-
enced worker who came into the neighborhood as
a stranger.

APRIL 1946

What did all of this add up to? \Ve felt that
our combined assets far outweighed our separate
liabilities. How did we utilize our newly ac-
quired strength?

Crafts

First of all, the craft program on the play-
ground had to be of a very limited nature because
of three factors: lack of a shelter plus inadequate
table space, lack of satisfactory storage room, and
the necessity for one leader to teach crafts to all
age groups and do general playground supervision
at the same time. The solution to this problem
was worked out by doing simple crafts- on the
playground and more advanced crafts at Neigh-
borhod House where facilities were adaptable to
this program. This was done under joint leader-
ship of the two agencies.

Since the youngest age group, four to seven
years, needed a craft group of their own adapted
to their particular interests and skills, this ar-
rangement did not solve their problem. However,
Neighborhood House was operating a four day
program for the four to seven year old children, one
morning of which was devoted to arts and crafts.
Why not send the youngest playground children
to Neighborhood House Tuesday mornings? Their
playground leader brought them over the first few
times and soon they were able to come by them-
selves. By mutual‘agreement the workers of the
two agencies encouraged these boys and girls to
enroll in the full four day program. Home visits
were made and several youngsters expanded their
horizons by two or three blocks.

Active Games

The eight to thirteen year old children at Neigh-
borhood House wanted active group games. We
had no adequate space for this activity butwe had
friends on the playground. Consequently the crowd

(Continued on page 54)

25

I, , , Day‘Camping

Reports from Three Cities

ASADENA, CALIFORNIA. Day camping in

Pasadena is part of an over-all camping plan

which includes overnight camping and con—
ferences. The purpose of the whole program is “to
make possible a camping experience for all boys
and girls in the city of Pasadena School District,
in organized groups under adult leadership, each
group planning their own activity.”

Publicand Private Agencies Cooperate

To this end five community groups cooperate.
The Park Department provides the facilities,
located in Oak Grove Park. The Recreation De-
partment. oversees the administration and further
helps with program planning where this is needed.
The Junior Chamber of Commerce takes care of
publicity and promotion. The city schools inter-
pret to.t11eir pupils the whole camping program
with-special emphasis on the value of doing things
together in the out-of-doors. The Council of Social
Agencies undertakes the coordination -of all the
groups. i-n‘the operation and expansion of Oak
GroverPark'and, in addition, enlists the coopera—
tion of all agencies that wish to use the area.

, -. acilities and“ General Program \

Oak Grove Park is well-equipped to serve the

needs'of day camping. One part of the area is set
aside especially for the use of day campers. In
addition‘there are in the Park a small administra-
tion building, a-picnic area, campfire rings, a space
set .aside for outdoor fire building and cooking
tests, and, a sports area.
.-.- These facilities make possible the planning of a
varied program. They provide opportunities for
hiking and nature. study, food preparation and
cooking, singing and ceremonials, demonstrations
andvmovies, craftsmanship and construction, track—
ing sandF-marksmanship. The details of program
planning, within these general outlines, are the
responsibility of the group using the facilities—-
with the expert help of the Recreation Depart-
ment, if that is needed. ' -

"PiHstrgh‘, Pennsylvania. PittSburgh’s day camp—
ing7 is planned carefully well ahead "of time. A
manual “of suggestions isidistributed to day camp
counselors but all the workers are urged to use

26.

the suggestions as a guide, to be supplemented out
of their own experience, their own ingenuity, and
the special situations of their own camp.

Daily Schedule

The suggested daily schedule as outlined in the

Pittsburgh manual follows:

9:30— 9:45 Street car to camp
9 :45—10 :00 General assembly

Announcement of activities
Sing
10:00—10:15 Individual groups meet for their activities
and plans
10:15—11 :45 ‘ Morning activities
Nature hikes
Camp project
Exploration
Preparation for cookout
Trips to special places
11 :45—12 :00 Clean up
12:00- 1:00 Lunch. Rest hour
Stories
. Quiet games,
1:00—— 3 :10 Afternoon program
Camp crafts
Camp project ‘
Collecting interesting nature objects
Handling of axes and knives
3 :15— 3 :30 Camp clean up
Assembly and singing'
3 :30 Departure
Friday afternoons are devoted to a campfire

program when campers as individuals or as groups
have a chance to demonstrate their achievement.
Friday, too, is “hike day.” CounSelors are cau—
tioned against fear of a rainy day or of mud after
rain for at such time campers can go on “mud
hikes.” 'Another special kind of hike are “clay
hikes” when campers go out to look for pottery
clay to be used by craft groups.

Special Projects ‘

Each camp chooses a special camp project. A
project may be such a thing as building a bird bath
at the Campfire Circle or making a sun dial or
studying the principles of outdoor fire building.

For specific projects there is much to choose
from. In handcraft classes campers can make
tomahawks ; wooden jewelry from tree branches,
carefully holloWed out and decorated; “Indian”
canoes from sticks picked up by campers on hikes;

RECREATION

DAY CAMPING 27

“Indian” pottery, beads and animals modeled from
the clay native to the area.

Spatter printing can be tied in directly to the
nature program. Songs taught in assembly periods
will be heard again at rest periods, craft periods
and on the way to camp and home again. Dra-
matics, especially fairy tales and Indian legends
told in pantomime, are good material for the camp—

fire program.

Decatur. Illinois. The theme for Decatur’s day
camp held at Spitler Woods State Park was Pecos
Bill.. The program schedule, mimeographed on
orange paper, carried a drawing of Pecos Bill
himself. The theme was used with consistence, as
is Shown by the following program schedule:

l-X-L Ranch—Spitler Woods State Park

9:30—40:00 A.M. Round-up at Pinnacle Peak
1. Explanation of Pecos Bill theme
2. “Ride ’Em Lightnin’” to deter-
mine Camper Cheyenne Charley
and Covered Wagon Lizz

‘13

’5‘

..
 m r- 7.

APRIL 1946

3. Learning of Pecos Bill’s favorite
songs

4. Cheyenne Charley and Covered
Wagon Lizz select
a. Distributors and collectors of

Mushmouth sheets .

b. Color Bearer and Color Guards
c. Reader of Patriotic Poem

10:00—10:10 AM. Raising of Bean Hiole’s Shack

Gathering of wood and proper lay-
ing of log cabin fire lay

10 :10—10 :20 AM. Flag Ceremonial

Allegiance — America —— Reading or

Patriotic Poem
God Bless America

10:20—10:30 A.M. Passing of cups—drinks—latrines—
washing of hands
Explanation of Vt’ouser Hike Dodo
Box

10 :30——11 :45 A.M. \Vouser Hike over Chizzum and
Coyote Trails ‘
1. Division into Pecos Bills and Slue-
foot Sues
(Continued on page 47)

 

Courtesy Public Recreation Commission, Cincinnati, Ohio

I nteg rati
Charts Compile

Research an
Pennsylvania

Harri

Integrating Handcraft with Nature Study

Illustration
SKETCHING

Design
Landscaping
Trails

Trail markers

Flower arrangements
Terrarium
Dyes

Spinning and weaving of plant fibres
W oodcraft

Basketry

Making paper from wood pulp
Bayberry candles

Articles from nuts, pine cones, needles

Animal cages ~
Bird houses -
ANIMAL LIFE Insect rearing

o

PLANT LIFE

Observation ant house
Observation bee hive

Articles from leather, bone, horn and wool

NATURE .
Aquarium

Fishing tackle
Fish trap
Articles from shells

{ Stone carving

WATER LIFE

r"

Rock gardens

Clay modeling—«ceramics
Building with stone

Cutting and polishing of semi-precious stones

Weather Bureau :
. Weather Vane
Wind stocking

GEOLOGY

METEOROLOGY Barometer

Hydrometer
Weather Flags

Weather record, charts and log

\‘
Star Slides '

Telesc0pe

Sun dial

ASTRQNOMY Planetarium
Sky map

RECREATION

 

Activities

ltNN MUELLER
:9 Associate

inning Board

enna.

Integrating Handcraft with Other Skills

Shepherd’s pipes
Pipes of Pan
Drums
' Cymbals
MUSIC _ Xylophone \

Castanets
Tambourine
Musical bottles
Gong

Song books

Costumes
Stage Sets

‘ Properties
Lighting

DRAMATICS

Developing

Printing and mounting
Camera case

Pinhole camera

Picture frames
Albums

PHOTOGRAPHY

HOME MAKING

Needle crafts
Costume design

Making equipment needed
Paddles for Ping—pong
Paddles or Bats for Badminton
Hockey sticks
Skis
Bows and Arrows, Quivers and
other items of archery tackle
Rings for Deck Tennis
Darts and Dart Boards
Various indoor games
and many others

GAMES

Interior decoration
Landscaping

Flower arrangements
Serving food attractively

APRIL 1946~-- '

29

Counselor
1'0

Camper

By REYNOLD E. CARLSON

Director. Nature Activities Service
National Recreation Association

CHILD COMES seeking outdoor adventures when
A he comes to a camp. In his mind’s eye he has
seen a picture. He has seen a picture of the
woods and streams and lakes. He has visualized a
chance to swim and hike and cook out-of—doors;
to see animals in their wild state; to make things;
to sing, to sit around a campfire, to enjoy games
with congenial friends.

VVhence comes this aura of adventure and ro-
mance which surrounds a child’s thoughts of camp-
ing? Perhaps it goes back to our pioneer heritage
—to the Indian at home in the great American
wilderness; to the fur trader and trapper, often
the first white man in the area; to the pioneer set-
tler who carved for himself a home in the new
land. America, when the first white man came,
was a land of great forests, vast grasslands, wide
deserts. It was the home of wild life—mammals,
fish, birds—in an abundance far beyond our imagi-
nations to conceive. Out of this abundance Indian
and white man alike secured his food, his shelter,
his clothing. Recreation, decoration, and—for the
Indian at least—religion came for the most part
out of this natural world.

All this is in the background of the thinking of
a boy or girl who wants to go to camp. Much of
it can be suggested or approximated in a well-
selected camp site. Many city children are seeking
in camps adventure that stems from this heritage,
but few of them have the background that will
enable them to enjoy thoroughly the outdoor ex-
perience. They need somehow to be introduced to
the idea that camp is a little bit of the wilderness
set aside for outdoor living together. They need
to become acquainted with the trees, the birds, the
flowers, and the past human history of the camp
and its surroundings. This is the problem of the
counselor just as it is his problem to see that each
camper gets some of the adventure which he seeks,

30

 

’ Print by chgé Hermon

that the romance of camping is kept alive in the

mind of the camper, that the heritage is preserved
to another generation.

Goal for the Camper

When the botanist walks through the forest he
is aware, because of his background, of the great
variety and complexity of the plant life in the area.
He is conscious of the changes that have taken
place since the coming of man—of the succession
of plants that have lived in the area as it has gone
through the stages of virgin forest to farmlands
and thence back to woodlands again. He is aware
of the principles of plant growth, of the tremend-
ous importance of the process that takes place in
the green leaves “of plants whereby non-living
chemicals are transformed through the interaction
of sunlight into living materials.

When an ornithologist takes a, walk he is aware
of the songs of birds that most of us do not notice.
Without ever having seen the area before, he
knows what types of birds to expect in the Open
helds, along the hedgerows of the farmlands, in the
deep woods. He is conscious, as he sees or hears
birds, of their life histories, their migrations, their
winter homes, their food, their mating, the rearing
of their young. ,

In like manner the geologist is aware of the
rock beneath his feet. The limestone and the flint
nodules tell him the story of the ancient seas and‘
the lifting and falling of the land mass when these
rocks were formed. He knows the geological:
period to which the surface rocks belong, recog-
nizes the fossils for what they were, is' conscious-
of the thousands of feet of sedimentary rock that

RECREATION?

 

COUNSELOR TO CAMPER . '- 31

overlie the igneous deposits hidden below the
surface.

The ecologist is alert to all the interrelations in
the world around him—plants to soil, one plant to
another, plants to animals. He, along with all the
other scientists we have been talking about, feels a
sense of wonder at the beauty, the bigness, the
complexity of the world. These men might not
7 talk about these sentiments, but most. of them
i would have them, nonetheless.

It is not the purpose of the camp nature pro-
gram to make geologists, ornithologists and bo-
tanists out of campers—though this has often been
a result. Nor is it the purpose of such a program
to teach facts about the world‘ of nature. Its pur-
pose is, rather, to develop a friendly familiarity
with the camp scene, to help campers to appreci-
ate and understand their physical environment, to
give them a sense of the beauty, the complexity,
the bigness of the camp world. The program should
give the youngsters a glimpse of some of the
things the specialist understands and a sense of the
oneness and the relatedness of all things in the
world about them, that they may come to feel that
the camp is an interesting place, that its living
plants and animals have a story to tell, that its
past history lends a peculiar romance to the area.

This goal is not easy to reach—partly because
of certain mind sets on the part of the camper or,
perhaps, because the counselors lack interest and
enthusiasm for the job. Nonetheless it is the coun-
selor’s job to do all these things. There are cer-
tain qualifications that he should bring to the job
if he is to do it well.

Counselor Knowledge

Every counselor needs to know enough about
the camp area to feel its. interest. This does not
mean that every counselor must have a great back-
ground in the field of science. It does mean that
each one should have eyes to see and a genuine
capacity to appreciate the world of nature.

Each counselor must be an opportunist. When
questions come from campers, and when interest-
ing natural phenomena are encountered, he must
be willing to stop and give time to observe, to
speculate, to answer questions—if he knows the
answer. If he doesn’t know it, he must be able to
say, “I don’t know.” Campers will respect him for
his honesty.

Counselors must be willing to learn with camp-
ers and to do things with campers. The results are
generally far better where the counselor works

APRIL 1946 “

with his group than they are Where he attempts to
teach his group.

Counselors need to have certain skills in doing
things, always remembering that much of the ap-
preciation of physical things comes from working
with them and from having first-hand contact with
them. Some of the best nature opportunities come
naturally during hikes, cookouts, or craft sessions.

As the counselor participates in the various
“camptivities” and comes in contact with nature in
its various manifestations, there are several ap-
proaches to the job that he needs generally to
keep in mind. Some people are more interested in
one approach than another, but the good counselor
will be aware of all of them.

0

Camper Interests

The utilitarian value of the natural world is
usually interesting. What use did the Indian make
of this plant or animal? How did the pioneer use
it, and What is its value today from the standpoint
of the campcraft program or from the economic
standpoint? Here is a place where many craft
activities can be tied closely to the nature program.
Seeds, bark, plant fibres, leaves, wood, juices for
dyes, and countless other native materials may
find their places in the craft program. And the
knowledge of pioneer or Indian usage gives added
interest to things seen on hikes which may not
actually be put to any current use.

Interest is high, too, in the relationships of

things—insect to flower, birds to seed and insects,
soils to plants, moisture conditions to plants, and
all the countless relations and interrelations that
are so fascinating in the world of nature. Even
though ignorant of the scientific facts involved in
those relationships, alert eyes may often observe
that they exist.
' The sheer beauty of the physical world brings
high pleasure once it is observed with the seeing
eye. There is, of course, some question as to
whether an appreciation of beauty can be taught
directly. Appreciation is generally a by-product of
associating with things of beauty and of having
line, form, color, harmony—the more intellectual
aspects of the beautiful—pointed out. But in the
world of nature loveliness jumps to the eye—with-
out this intellectual knowledge—and every child
should achieve some sense of these natural beau-
ties while he is close to them.

Each camper should get enough information
about the natural world so that he has a sense of

(Continued on page 48)

Games for Day Campers

Stung, or Step on the Rattler

HIS IS AN ANCIENT GAME. A circle about three
Tfeet across is drawn on the ground. The play-

ers, holding hands, make a ring around this,
and try to make one of the number step into the
poison circle. He can,evade it by sidestepping, by
jumping over, or by dragging another fellow into
it. The first to make the misstep is.“it” for the

time or for next game.

Scavenger Hunt

Make a list of objects to be brought in—speciflc
rocks, leaves, grass, seeds, four leaf clovers and so
on, and let small groups, each with a list and bag,
see how many of the objects they can find within a
certain time. Be careful not to include on the list
things that should ‘not be picked. As variation ask
for twenty—six objects, each beginning with a
different letter of the alphabet.

Trailing

Let some one in the group go off cross—country
in the woods walking carelessly, scuffing leaves,
bending twigs and leaving footprints. After ten or
fifteen minutes let the group try to track the trail-
maker, following the slight clues he has left. The
trailmaker has a watch and sits down after fifteen
minutes. The first to find him is “it” next time
the game is played.

Hawkeye

Cover up a bird picture, a stuffed bird, a flower
or any other such object after the group has had a
few seconds to look at it. Then ask questions to
see who has the sharpest eyes. Of a robin you
might ask, “What color is its breast? How many
spots of white are there? Color of head? Color of
bill? Where is there black? How many noticed
white around the eye ?”

Nature “Crows and Cranes” or “Black
and White”

Divide the group into two groups or teams and
line them up facing each other in two lines some
ten or twelve feet apart. Back of each line is a
base line. One team is known as true and the
other as false. Make nature statements that may
or may not be true, such as “birds have teeth,”
“bats have fur.” If the statement is true, the true

32

side chases the false side to its base line. Anyone
caught en route joins the true side. If the state—
ment is false then the opposite is true. At the end
the side with the greatest number Wins. It is well
to have a number of statements in mind before
starting the game or it will lag and there will be
no fun in the playing. Be sure the facts are known
to the group before you ask the questions or make
the statements.

“Swat” the Blindman

Have Audubon charts hung on the wall. Have
a player stand with back to the chart. Name a

1

bird, such as the flicker. Ask if he remembers the '

black cap? The red breast? The yellow on the
tail? This always furnishes a great deal of amuse-
ment to the audience.

Bird Logomachy

Use cardboard letters printed on one side. Place
face down on the table. Players take turns draw-
ing letters and placing face up on the table. When
a player can make a bird name from these letters,
he takes, the letters and spells the word in front of
him. The person getting ten birds wins.

Bird Rogues’ Gallery

Slips of papers are passed out to players, and
they are given two minutes to draw a’ picture of a
bird for the Rogues’ Gallery. The exhibit is then
set up, and the udges walk by the exhibit. Recog—
nizable birds are given honorable mention (I
point). Birds represented in action may be given
redh ribbons or red—pencil marks (2 points). The
best sketches may be given blue ribbons or blue
marks (3 points). The udging may be made very
funny. The team getting the greatest score wins.

I

Twig Matching

Obtain several kinds of twigs 8 to 12 inches long.
Cut into two parts. Mount the‘ lower half on a
board. Scatter the other halves on a table. At a
given signal, the players observe closely one of the

twigs and then run to the unmounted group to get _

the other half. If the wrong half is brought back,
he tries again. This game requires close observa-
tion. Leaves may be used in the same way, or
flowers with short stems may be fitted to longer
stems, or leaves to leaf scars. :

(Continued on page 46)

. RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY

TEACHERS in Union
County, New Jersey, are
going back to school this
winter and early Spring.
They are going to school to the Naturalist for the
Union County Park Commission—to learn about
nature and conservation of nature.

The purpose of the course is to help introduce
to teachers the plants and animals native to this
area and assist them in planning a course of study
in natural history for their classes.

Ten lecture-laboratory sessions will include a
study of fungi, mosses, ferns, wild flowers, trees,
shrubs, woody vines, insects, fish, amphibians,
reptiles, birds, and mammals. All of the field trips
center around the park commission’s 2,ooo-acre
VVatchung Reservation and include a visit to old
quarries along Seeley’s Pond; a trip to the “De—
serted Village” and an old copper mine; a journey
along Green Brook to collect amphibians; wild-
flower study along the nature trail; a visit to
“The Glen”; a bird walk; and an inspection of
exhibits at the Trailside Museum.

Teachers Take
a Class

THE MIDWEST College
Outing Club Association
composed of twenty-seven
colleges and universities
in eight midwestern states will'hold its first post~
war conference at McCormicks Creek State Park,
Spencer, Indiana, the second week end in May.
The conference will be attended by both faculty
members and students. Additional information
can be secured from Chairman A.E.Florio, School
of Health and Physical Education, University of
Illinois or G. G. Eppley, Field Recreation Consul—
tant, Indiana University. '

Outing Club
Conference

I

A TRAINING institute for
park naturalists, nature
recreation leaders, school
teachers, and museum
personnel will be held April 26, 27, and 28 at Mc-
Cormicks Creek State Park, Spencer, Indiana.
Reynold Carlson, National Recreation Associa-
tion; and D. E. McHenry, Park. Naturalist, Na—
tional Capitol Parks, will serve as instructors, as-
sisted by Robert‘ F. \Virsching and Sidney Esten,
Indiana Conservation Department; Howard H.

Institute for
Naturalists

APRIL 1946

Crippled Children’s

Michaud, Purdue University; and Garrett G. Ep-
pley, Indiana University. The institute is spon-
sored by the Indiana Department of Conservation
and Indiana University.

As THE summer of 1945
drew to a close, the camp-
ing season at Camp
Cheerful, Novelty, Ohio,
sponsored by the Society for Crippled Children of
Cleveland, also ended. Fifty children at a time
came for two week periods, during July and
August.

Arthur T. Orner, director of the camp, said that
outdoor activities, such as baseball, football, tennis,
badminton, archery, held the greatest interest for
the children, and top favorite of all was swimming.
Indoor activities were also popular, and included
ping-pong, listening to recorded music, working
with metal and wood and a lot of “eating.”

Twenty-five adults staffed the camp and-in-
cluded counselors, a physical therapist, a doctor,
and registered nurse, a cook and assistants.

The camping program each year is financed by
the sale of Easter seals, and the children are rec—

ommended by doctors, hospitals, social agencies,
and parents.

Camp

0

Two training institutes
for recreation leaders,
summer playground di-
rectors, and youth can—
teen directors have been scheduled for June 7, S,
and 9 at the Indiana University Extension Center,
East Chicago, Indiana, and at McCormicks Creek
State Park, Spencer, Indiana. The training staff
will be composed of Terry Rose and his co—work-
ers from the Recreation Department of the Chi-
cago Park District. Registration will be in charge
of Garrett G. Eppley, Field Recreation Consultant.
Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana.

Institutes for
Leaders

THE Los ANGELES City
Recreation Department
has decided to offer week-
end camping for girls on
a year—round basis at Griffith Park Girls’ Camp.
The camp offers any girl, eight years of age or
more, forty—eight hours of camp fun in the out-

Year-Round Week-
End Camping

34 WORLD AT PLAY

  

claim RAWLINGS
4613M ATHLETIC GOODS

4m 8m, 3M
Available from

Leading Afhlefic Goods
Distributors '

W MAuurAcIunmn co.
f . ST. LOUIS '-MISSOURl

doors from Friday after school to late Sunday
afternoon; plenty of good schooling and lodging in
rustic cabins; a program which includes hiking,
sports, nature lore, campfire stunts, games, wood-
craft, outdoor cooking, singing, dramatics, hand-
crafts and hobbies. A nominal fee is charged to
cover meals and lodging.

Fall programs of recreation activities for adults
as well as children are booming at the fifty-two
community clubs and recreation centers main-
tained by the Los Angeles Recreation Department.

- Interesting History—Utica, New York, has
a long history in recreation. In 1899 the city set
up its first Playground Association whose leaders
worked closely with Joseph Lee. In 1919 Utica
created a Recreation Commission which they be—
lieve, was one of the first in New 'York state.

Horseshoe Tournament—In September, 1945,
the Recreation Department of Norwood, Ohio,
conducted with real success, the National Senior

A.A.U. H0rseshoe Pitching Championship Tour-
nament. The tournament was held at the N or—

 

BADGES AVAILABLE ,-

During the war, because of the shortage
of metal the National Recreation Associa-

tion could not supply badges for Boys’ and
Girls’ Athletic Badge Tests.

Beginning in June 1946 these badges will
again be available for both boys and girls.

The cost will be 20 cents each.

 

wood Municipal Horseshoe Courts where there are
ten excellent standard courts under lights. The
event lasted three days. Blbachers to seat 1,000
spectators were set up for the occasion.

National Congress of Parents and Teachers
—The National Congress of Parents and Teachers
entered its fiftieth year of service to home, school
and community on February 17th. We believe that
much credit is due to this great national organiza-

tion with its close to three and a half million mem-
bers, over one third of which are men, for the
devoted and very specific contribution they have
made to the welfare of the home, the ’school and
the community. In the field of recreation they
have backed and supported public recreation pro—
grams and budgets and have provided leadership
and training for leadership; they have organized
recreation in small communities and organized
community centers in schools in larger communi-
ties. Their Recreation Committee was established
at the Austin Convention in 1925. Through the
national organization and through the chairmen
in the state branches and through local associations
they have recognized the importance, the value and
the necessity‘of doing something about recreation.
We extend to them the heartiest congratulations
of all professional recreation people and this As-
sociation.

Training Institute for Park Superintendents
——A training institute for park superintendents, both
state and municipal was scheduled for McCormick’s
Creek State Park, Spencer, Indiana, March 11 to
22 inclusive. The institute is sponsored by the
Field Recreation Service, Indiana University;
State Park Divisionof the Indiana Department of
Conservation; and the Indiana Park and Recrea—
tion Association.

RECREATION

NO TIME OUT

.9. for many seasons

the finest periormance 
under all playing conditions over
the longest period at time.

you

 W“. :1. von RUBBER CORP.

A! H uth
msmun 1600 E. 25th Street, los Angeles II o 180 No. Wacker Drive, Chicago 6

APRIL 1946

 

30 WORLD AT PLAY

\ --  _,

Representatives of Weaver-Wintark stroll
along the boardwalk during a recess at

the Recreation Congress where they pre-
sided over the Weaver-Wintark displaya

Institute in Canada~—-—Mareh, 1946, was train-
ing time in Hamilton, Ontario. Five Saturday
afternoons—four in March and one in April——

were given over to leadership training courses

featuring special instruction for playground direct-
ors, university and normal students and married
couples. Among the subjects offered were:

Leadership Training for Community Recreation.

Skills in Arts, Crafts, Folk and Rhythmic
Dancing.

Guidance in the Meaning and Methods of
Recreation.

Music and Drama, Discussion and Study, Pre-
Party Games.

Mixers and Mass and Singing Games, Program
Building.

“Teen-Agers,” Church Clubs, Recreation
Technique.

One of the features of the public relations cam-
paign which preceded tlieqlnstitute was an attrac-

 

tive bookmark printed in red on white. One side
of the bookmark told of the Institute, the other
gave a booklist prepared for the Institute by the
Hamilton Public Library.

Museum Notes—St. Joseph, Missouri, has
an “up-and-coming” Museum program. A director
and a small staff have turned a large, old residence
into an interest center for young and 01d. Here
are conducted art classes, a clay modeling club,
natural history classes for boys and girls. a ce-
ramics club, an art class for adults, classes in
sketching and sculpture. The Missouri Valley
Mineral Club, the Audubon Society and similar
groups use the Museum as headquarters for their
activities.

The Museum is financed by memberships and
contributions. Thé§1945 budget was $10,000. The
Museum is becoming a real force in the com-
munity.

Fit and Fair—Fit and Fair is the title of a new
16 mm. film in sound and color now available for
showings free of charge from the Y.M.C.A. Mo-
tion Picture Bureau in New York, Chicago, San
Francisco, and Dallas.

The film, a two-reeler, stresses the importance
of good posture, poise, diet, and grooming in
achieving beauty and charm. It is aimed especially
at the teen—age girl, but is described as suitable
for “high schools, colleges, P.T.A.’s, industrial and
community groups.”

Art Exhibit—The Board of Recreation of

r Bismarck, North Dakota, in cooperation with the

State Historical Society, sponsored an exhibit of
North Dakota artists in November 1945. Two—
dimensional subjects were shown. These included
water colors, oils, sketches in charcoal, crayon,
pencil, pastel, pen and ink, photographs and prints
such as wood-cuts, lithographs, linoleum blocks
and etchings. More than 170 works from all over
the state were exhibited and large crowds visited
the display. The exhibit was continued for several
days at the request of the Farmer’s Union organi-
zation which was holding a state conference during
the week.

A working “exhibit” of local school children
gave demonstrations at different times during the
three days. The purpose of the exhibit was to
stimulate interest in creative fields and to expose
the activity and new movement in the field of art
expression as well as to promote sales of local
artists. '

RECREATION

   
   
   
   
 
    
   
     
     
   
 

APPROVED BY
NAT'L FEDERATION
AND ARMY - NAVY

SOCCER...3add4 PW7W

A game that demands agility, co-ordina-
tion and balance plus endurance, timing
and speed. And .a ball that must with-

stand terrific abuse, yet respond quickly
and accurately.

The WINTARK Soccerball is official
weight, size and reaction. The exclusive
patented features of Cordura* construc-
tion, make it superior in performance and
durability to all others.

ORIGINAL PIONEERS
The WEAVER Scholastic Playball and
the WI NTARK Rubber Covered, Cord ‘
Wound Basketball, were the FIRST
balls of this type introduced and-
successfully used. -

Uni.,ds.,.“1~¢mngco, 1..“ Winter]: Policy Win: for Dealers 0 Write for lain! Catalog

 

WINTARK FEATURES

Cordura“ wound. Nine layers of materials
which produce proper action' preserve uni-
form shape provide surer grip. This rugged 0
construction also makes WINTARK Soccer
balls moisture-proof. washable and abrasion

resistant.
‘Fleg. trademark of DuPont (.‘0.

' SALES COMPANY
: AMERICA'S fOREMOST ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

 

 

38 WORLD AT PLAY

Better Craft

Teaching
Less Effort

 

Hortoncraft Planned Project Kits eliminate time—
wasting, preliminary, non—educational drudgery.
You devote your best hours to teaching creative
leathercraft technics, such as tooling and coloring.
Belt illustrated is one of many Kits We are

once again able to furnish. Send for FREE Hand—
book showing newest projects. Write today. ”

HORiONCRAfi

DEPT R. 4, 106 ANN STREET, HARTFORD 6, CONN.

 

 

People of all ages and from all walks of life
attended. The exhibit was near the Teen Canteen
and a large number of teen-agers, many farmers
and citizens from in and around Bismarck enjoyed
' the display. Books on art were also displayed, a
number of the artists were present at different
times, and someone from the Board of Recreation
was always there to greet visitors and show them
around.

The total cost to the Board was about $10 since
all entries were shipped at the owner’s expense.

Symphony Orchestra —- Sunbury, Pennsyl-
vania, has a symphony orchestra. It is sponsored
by the Community Center, underwritten by Tem‘
ple Beth El, directed by a member of the Phila-
delphia Symphony Orchestra.

-The Sunbury group includes 60 players -—- 31
youngsters and 29 adults. Guest artists are brought
in for some of the concerts which take place several
times a year.

Recreation Tax Vote—On November 6, 1945
a successful vote was cast in Warren, Ohio, for a
.2 mill tax for recreation for a two-year period
which will amount to $15,000 a year. The vote
passed by a 78 percent majority. At the same time
$270,000 was voted for an incinerator, passed by a
73 Percent majority, and the renewal of a bond
levy for schools was passed with an 83 percent ma—
jority. Incidentally, votes for the recreation tax
tallied 9,360, FOR and 2,640, AGAINST. There
were more votes cast in this general election than
_ever before in the history of Warren.

“Home-Town” Day Camp—Midland, Michi-
gan’s Central Park was the scene of day camping
last year. Activities included handcraft, nature,
campcraft, music, dramatics. Ninety youngsters
learned to swim. Hiking had an important place
on the program. Groups of boys and girls from
6 to 14 years of age camped for two week periods.

Durham, N. C., Shoe Shine Boys’ Clubs—In
March, 1945, the Department of Public Recrea-
tion of Durham, through the cooperation of the
Police Department, the Juvenile Court, the Junior
Chamber of Commerce and the Young Men’s
Negro Business Club, took preliminary steps to-
ward setting up an organization for city shoe shine
boys between the ages of 12 and 16. Any 12 or 13-
year-old boy who secured a license from the City
Tax Office or any boy 14 to 16 years of age who
secured a working permit from the Welfare De-
partment, plus a license from the Tax Office, was
accepted as a member of the Durham Shoe Shine
Boys’ Clubs. Approved members were delegated
stations, set up on various corners throughout the
city, and were permitted to shine shoes from 3:00
to 7:00 RM. Monday through Friday and from
1:00 to 7:00 P.M. on Saturday. The Recreation
Department has provided the recreation program
for these youngsters through football leagues, pic-
nics and free swimming parties.

Tallahassee’s Living War Memorial—About _
two years ago the City of Tallahassee,_ Florida,
obtained title to sixteen acres of very low land in
front of the_local high school. Work is now well
under way to develdp this as a recreation center
which will be a living war memorial. To date,
(December 1945) the filling and most of the drain—
age is complete and baseball and softball fields are
practically linished as well as outdoor baseball and

volley ball courts. The development will include
the following items of work:

1. Grading, filling and construction of fields. .$100,000.00

2. Football stadium with %4 mile track, seating
capacity 10,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 275,000.00

3. Community center building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150,000.00

4. Swimming pool (72' x 165’) . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 80,000.00

5. Tennis courts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,000.00

6. Fieldhouse . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5,000.00

7. Basketball, volley ball, shuffieboard, horse-
shoe courts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,000.00
Total cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$630,000.00

The project will be financed by funds appropri-
ated over a period of approximately five years. In

RECREATION

 

 

 

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

O Jusl' as in Baseball' ’rl'le fa-

mous Louisville Slugger oval

frademark is recognized as lhe
hallmark of lhe finesl, for Soil-
ball hiHers are iusl as ba’r-con-
scious as lhe mosf exacfing
Baseball champion — and will
insisi' on using only lhe besf.

The new 1946 OF-
ficiol Softball Rule—
book k due offthe
presses in the neon-
future. Send 10c in
stomps or coin to

Dept. R.

KENTUCKY

HILLERIGH 8: BRADSBY 00. LOUISVILLE,

 

APRIL 1946

39

40 FAIRFIELD ORGANIZES A ROD AND REEL CLUB

JG YM MA rs-PADS

   

'  “mums nos, no covens, BASE um
I "‘ uses AND KINDRED souumsm...

designed by exports. and. by oznrhnood work... from
quality materials and MM (End to schools, cups, on.
Independent, trva wholesale.

3 “noun. svonrs EQUIPMENT COMPANY
3‘5 HAIQUETTE FOND DU LAC. WIS.

  ,. VI- BOXING RINGS

 

the next year’s budget to be set up in March 1946
it is planned to include $100,000 of which $80000
will be for the swimming pool.

Spotlight on Crafts—mAt one recreation‘cen-
ter in Winona, Minnesota, crafts hold the spot-
light. Among a large variety of crafts taught the
emphasis is upon a rather unusual one—the mak-
ing of bows and arrows.

Fairfield Organizes 3

Rod and Reel Club

ECREATION LEADERS are constantly on the
R alert for new activities that will enrich the
scope of the program offered to the public. If
these activities appeal to the interests of those not
now reached by the regular program and if they
carry over into every day living they are of so
much greater value.

Fishing is one of these activities that meets the
test in all particulars. There is no need to expound
the virtues and values of fishing as this has been
done by those more competent. Suffice it to say
that the evidence presented by large numbers of
fishermen, young and old, male and female, who
are met on a drive through the countryside, is
eloquent testimony of the desirability of such an
activity.

A conference with a group of our local fisher-
men indicated an enthusiasm on their part to be of
assistance in promoting a program of instruction
for the youngsters of our town. One of the .group
volunteered to teach casting and fly-tying once a
week at each of our four recreation centers. Bul-
letins on our Center bulletin boards, announce-
ments in the schools and in the newspapers telling
about the formation of a Rod and Reel Club met
with an enthusiastic response from the youngsters.
Not only did many of our regular customers sign
up, but new faces appeared.

   
 
 
 
       

Why Some Playgrounds

Are Successful While
Others Fail

Ar A SECTION MEETING of the twenty—eighth Na—
tional' Recreation Congress the subject dis-
cussed was the success or failure of playgrounds.
Here are some highlights taken from the summary
of that meeting.

Playgrounds are successful because:
Patrons have fun.
There is good leadership.

There are space and lawns and trees and shrubs
and fiowers in addition to well-marked fields
and courts.

There are lights for night play, and especially
for family nights. '

There is a varied program including games for
every occasion, puppetry, drama, music, hand-
crafts, nature study.

There are special events to enrich the program.

There is good planning-“for supplies, for pro-
gram, for publicity.

The grounds are kept in good condition.
' There are frequent and interesting staff meetings.

Our program is still in the formative stage but
is built on the following pattern: once a week at
each center the gymnasium is used by the club for
casting practice for about forty-five minutes.
Colored squares of cloth serve as targets and im-
promptu contests tend to keep interest high and
stimulate the learning process. After the casting
practice the group retires to a near-by room to
receive instruction in tying fiies and plug making.

One of our difficulties was getting vices to hold
the hooks for tying. "Our local high school manual
arts department came to the rescue by agreeing to
make sufficient copies of a simple model designed
by the instructor.

We are now arranging for a general meeting of
all the center clubs once a month to see films on
fishing and to hear talks on fishing experiences,
camping trips, wild life conservation and the
sportsmanship code.

Those members who have been faithful in at-
tendance and who have demonstrated the re-
quired skills in casting and fly-tying will be pre-
sented with a felt emblem indicating club member-

RECREATION

  
    
     

 
 

I curr
‘ SANI-SOIL-SET

Controls DUST
Quickly and effectively!

I ition drill at South
non, Lowell, Mass.
' controlled eEec-

with Gulf Sani-
"et. Note the clean,
3 appearance of

rms and shoes.

  Sa”i_l_5‘et 2‘5 can or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly and
uniformly.

r)8 PT’ZZCTZZZZZ answer to yOZlT' Stives Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani—Soil-Set prevents

—""— the growth of grass on areas treated, and minimizes dust

dust annoyance PTOblemS: annoyance and expense in near-by houses, stores, and
laundries.

Write today for the booklet giving complete informa-

 Egedive_Gu1f Sani-50il-set eliminates dust annoy- tion about this modern, proven dust allayer.
e completely immediately after application. No long
ting periods are necessary before the ground is ready
use. The dust allaying eHect is accomplished by the
ion of the compound in adhering to and weighing
 n dust particles. In addition, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set pos-

“s valuable germicidal promrties.

| lusting —Because of its extremely low volatility and
)lubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains effec-

: for long periods. One ’application per season or year

 

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation. a copy of the booklet. "Gul f
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern proven agent for controlling dust."

 

 

gsually sufficient. Name
ly Applied—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing, easy Title
l pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-sprinkling Address—_________- .._____

42 ONE IN A HUNDRED

RECREATION LEADERS!

Professionally qualified leaders are needed to
till positions of crucial importance

0 0
Prepare to fill these positions through

Classes

Specializing in the use of recreation to help
individuals and groups meet personal and social
. problems in the postwar period

and

Field Instruction in Group Work in

Youth Serving Organizations
Recreation Centers
Settlements

Housing Projects

Child Guidance Centers
Hospitals, Convalescent Camps and Homes
Intercultural—Interracial Projects

0' O z

COLLEGE GRADUATES
apply
School of Applied Social Sciences

University of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh l3, Pa.

Limited number of Fellowships available

 

ship. We are also planning week-end fishing and
camping trips in the spring under the guidance of
our adult sponsors.

Requests are beginning to come in from adults
asking for instruction in the sport and it looks as if
a senior club is not far off. Such a program has
much to offer as a recreational activity. It has an
appeal to all age and sex groups. Such an interest
started in a youngster has a carry—over value into
later years of life. The cost of equipment is rela-
tively inexpensive and is usually provided by the
individual. It tends to get people into the outdoors
and makes them conscious of the great heritage
nature has provided.

Recreation Departments have a great opportu-
nity to lay the ground work for intelligent atti-
tudes toward elimination of stream pollution, the
restoration of our forests and wild life and all
forms of natural conservation that have become so
important in the national life. —— Walter H.
Hellmann, Superintendent of Recreation, Fair-
lield, Connecticut.

ONE IN 'A HUNDRED

F THE 5,982 magazines published in the
United States, the RECREATION Maga-

zine has been selected as one of a hundred
by Laura K. Martin, Chairman of the Evalu-

ation Committee of the American Associa-

tion of School Librarians.

Many volunteer and paid recreation work-
ers who have shared cooperatively in turning
in their material for the RECREATION Maga-

zine have reason to be happy over this
designation.

 

Ohio Cities Vote

Recreation Levies

REFERENDUM VOTES for recreation levies in a

number of Ohio cities on November 6th re—
sulted in the following favorable action:

In Akron, Where by charter provision only a
simple majority of votes is needed to pass a rec-
reation levy, a 61 per cent favorable vote was
secured. Since real estate values have increased in
this city, the budget of the Recreation Department
for the coming year will be increased by approxi-
mately $10,000.

In Canton, where a 65 per cent favorable vote
is necessary, the recreation levy obtained 77.9 per
cent.

In Dayton, where the citizens voted on bond
issues totaling $24,800,000 covering seventeen im—
provement proposals, thirteen of these issues were
successful, including one for $1,500,000 for parks
and recreation. The parks and recreation issue
polled a 66 per cent favorable vote with 25,380
votes for the issue and 12,956 against it.

Columbus citizens, in voting for the playground

and recreation levy of $775,000, cast 36,007 votes '

for it and 17,924 against it—a favorable vote of
66.8 per cent. This issue provides for the recon-
struction and repair of shelter houses, the purchase
of new equipment for playgrounds, and location of
new recreation centers.

The city-county vote for a Veterans Memorial
Hall in Columbus polled a 69.9 per cent favorable

\

vote. The building will probably house a main is

auditorium seating 11,000 people with a conven-

RECREATION

 

’l‘HE EVERWEAR MANUFACTURING 00ml

SPRINGFIELDl OHIO

‘ ANNOUNCES

sesame

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

APRIL 1946

Its NEW LINE of EverWear Playground Apparatus

. NEW, better, safer SLIDES, BETTER LOOKING, in 12, 16 and'20 foot Chute Lengths.
. NEW, CHILD CLIMB Outfit which is expandable to care for future needs.
. NEW, ALL-STEEL SEE-SAW, Adjustable, Teeter Unit which takes the place of wooden boards.

(Unquestionably, this is the greatest single improvement in an old, attractive outfit, which NOW
is given greater safety, beauty, and a durability which will surprise you.) The units are ready
for replacement of old wooden boards and units in complete outfits.

NEW MERRY-GO-ROUND that is 33-1/3% safer’? A beautiful outfit.

. NEW WHIRLING CLIMB on which the children will have loads of fun.
. NEW SWING OUTFITS with STEEL Fittings, Hangers and Seats.
. ,The ONLY SAFETY SWING SEAT on the market: REALLY SAFE!

NEW MERRY-WAVE-STRIDE furnishes thrilling action.
NEW GIANT STRIDE with NEW, safer GIANT STRIDE LADDER HANDLE.
NEW KINDERGARTEN ROCKING BOAT TEETER, which is the most attractive, practical play

outfit for young children ever invented.

NEW KINDERGARTEN CHAIR SEAT SWING: STEEL, with REGULAR heavy swing chain for

suspensions instead of light chain, usually used.

FLAG STAFFS, telescoped joints, top ball with hooded non-jamming sheave pulley, furnished
complete with halyard of chain.

NEW BICYCLE RACKS which are the cleverest racks ever made. Something ENTIRELY NEW
and different. Will hold the EXACT NUMBER of bicycles we promise. Furnished single or double.

NEW DETAILED DESIGN in HORIZONTAL LADDERS, GRADUATED HORIZONTAL BARS
and PARALLEL BARS, with a NEW Horizontal Travel Pole Ladder.

Everything is NEW in design and construction. WELDING, by which the
molecules of the metals themselves are joined, takes the place of heavy,
cumbersome and unsightly castings, giving a streamlined, beautiful ap-
pearance which will add greatly to the appearance of your playgrounds.

Specify EverWear for modern. SAFER. better playground apparatus

Write for Catalog Number 38

43

.44 SPEAKING OF VOLUNTEERS

RAMUC

lrode-Morl Reg. U. 5. Patent Office

AMERICA’S No. l SWIMMING POOL ENAMEL

Two indispensable products for
swimming pools to insure Maximum
Beauty, Visibility and Protection:

RAMUC Enamel imparts a tile-like,
easy-to-clean finish which does

not chip, crack or peel. Applied
like paint.

EXALGAE prevents algae growth

in pools. Economical and easy to
use. Keeps water sparklingly
clear at all times.

For complete information, write to

lNERTOL CO., INC. - DEPT.R

A70 FRELINGHUYSEN AVENUE
NEWARK .5, NEW JERSEY

Western Branch:
64 South Park, San Francisco 7, Calif.

EXAlGAE

Trade-Mari Rog. U- S. Palm-9 Office

A NEW, SAFE, EFFECTIVE ALGAECIDE

 

tion-type exhibition hall under it, a wing for the
exclusive use of veterans organizations, and a wing
which will contain a music hall.

According to newspaper statements, in Fostoria,
a $300,000 bond issue for a stadium was passed,
while Toronto voted favorably on a $50,000 bond
issue for a memorial park. At Middletown an issue
covering park improvements was passed by a 65.2
percent favorable vote. A bond issue for $439,300
was approved in Hamilton by a substantial ma-
jority. The money will be used for the acquisition
of playgrounds and for recreation center improve-
ment. Voters of Tippecanoe City approved a 2.5
mill levy to run for five years for the construction
of a memorial athletic field, while Forest approved
a park levy by a vote of 251 to 74.

Speaking of Volunteers

HE ANNUAL REPORT of the Bureau of Parks

and Recreation of Portland, Oregon, indicates
unusual success in that city in the use of volunteer
service. The following list of volunteers to which
the Portland Bureau of Parks and Recreation ex-
pressed its deep appreciation in the report may be
suggestive to other cities wishing to extend vol-
unteer service. '

\Vomen of the AAVVV, League of Women
Voters, Church Groups, who visited every
resident in the housing projects and~obtained
the information regarding programs in cen-

ters, types of boys clubs and girls clubs, 'and
adult groups.

\Vomen from the Civilian Defense Office
who compiled the information for recreation
interest blanks.

Junior League members who handled the
library hours.

The membership of the Portland Story
Hour League for series of story hours and
volunteer training courses in storytelling.

The Women of the Unitarian Church who
served refreshments and assisted in programs
for the boys‘ from Frazier on a regular
schedule.

The women of the City Hall who initiated
the hospitality nights for Russian seamen at
the request of the U. S. Navy.

The men from the insurance companies who
volunteered and conducted Christmas parties
for Trailer Camps and other segregated centers.

The Volunteer Patrols of the city and
county who so kindly and courteously as-
siste‘d in:

Junior Patrol Organization :
Sport Clubs

Boxing

Teen-age dances

Adult dances

General administration of buildings

The Volunteer Firemen who so generously
led the Junior Fire Patrols.

The members of the Portland Library staff
who trained volunteers in library techniques
at the 'centers.

The men and women of the radio stations
who not only publicized programs, but came to
centers, directed and planned feature events.

The men and women with special talents
who entertained the military, the convalescent
and the children of the centers:

The thousands of men who trained and
coached organized teams.

The members of the Portland Cycle Club
for conducting bike rides.

The hundreds of officials who served in in-
dividual competitions such as tennis, archery,
swimming, badminton.

The women and men from the Office of

RECREATION

.‘\

v

USO BUILDING BECOMES CITY RECREATION CENTER 43

     

It takes plenty of "know how” to make a
softball for today’s stepped-up play. Wilson
designers and craftsmen have it—as thou-
sands of coaches and players know. That’s
why you see Wilson softballs in preferred use
everywhere. Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
Chicago, New York and other leading cities.

u l I I QI

 

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Civilian Defense who acted as host and hos— Old Timers Baseball Supplying equipment for uni-
tesses in teen-age events. forms for junior baseball
The members of the newspapers who pub- programs‘
licized and yet found time to assist in contests. -
The members of men and women's service ° °
clubsfor surveywork,investigations and evalu—  BUlldlng Becomes
ations of programs, staff andexpenditures.  Recreation Center
The Red Cross Volunteers 1n aquatlcs, home
nursing and first aid. THE USO BUILDING in Madison, \Visconsin, be—
\Vomen trained in special skills who con- came the Madison Community Center in a
ducted classes, led groups for more than one ceremony at which Emerson Ela, USO director,
year periods. presented the keys to the building to Mayor
The P.T.A. for fun nights—entertainment Kraege.
and general promotion of recreation programs. At its first policy-making meeting, the eighteen-
The women who registered in rehabilita— member central committee for the city’s new recre-
tion classes and are now serving with crafts ation center made the following recommendations
at Barnes Hospital. to the Board of Education who will be in charge
Closely associated with the groups who con— of the center.
tributed entirely volunteer time and effort are I. That the center be named the \ladison (hm-
the clubs who contributed both time, elfm't munity Center.
and finances for adding color to programs. 2. That the Loft, youth actix'ity club, he bI'OIlLflll
Kiwanis Club Goldenball Tournament over to the center from the Y.M.C.A. with
Optimi“ Club BOYS, SP0” Programs ' its membership, rules and regulations intact.
1‘} dive C1111) Develolment Of smmmnm 3. That only youths 16 through 18 vears, or in
ortland hlks Revolvmg fund for develop- . ’
ment of program at Arleta the last three years of high school, be ad‘-
Building mitted to the center.

KHHTT 1A.!”

46 GAMES FOR DAY CAMPERS

 

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from ‘special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the valu
of a good shoe. "

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer_ Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts -

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

4. That all youths within these age brackets be
admitted to the center from 10 A.M. to 6 RM.
Saturdays; 2 to 6 RM. Sundays, and, for a
trial period, 4 to 5:30 P.M., Tuesdays and
W ednesdays.

5. That only Loft members be admitted Friday
and Saturday nights from 6:30 to II :30.

6. That the building, open from noon to II :30
weekdays, be available for adults in the hours

I not occupied by youth activities.

Among the problems on the agenda for the next
monthly meeting is the question of whether to
serve sandwiches during the noon hour at the
snack bar and how to control attendance since
building codes will permit only 800 at a time at
the center. Members of the Parent-Teacher As-
sociation will be asked to discuss at their next
monthly meeting the advisability of admitting
youths to the center on afternoons. Meanwhile the
center will be open to young people, Tuesdays and
Wednesdays on a trial basis. The secretary of the
Madison Business Association will be asked to

poll restaurant men in the neighborhood of the
center as to whether they would object to the com-
petition of a snack bar run in the noon hour.
Howard G. Danford is Superintendent of Rec-
reation under the Department of Health, Physical

Education, Recreation and Safety. Robert Hurd
is director of the new center.

Games for Day Campers

( Continued from page 32)
Jack-in-the-Box

A branch of flower is held up quickly from the
back of a box. The players write down the names.
See which team gets the highest average.

Getting the Clue

Have a sheet of paper or cloth with a hole in the
middle. Show the edge of a leaf, a little at a time.
\Vhoever gives the name correctly first is given
the leaf. The one who gets the largest collection
wins. Pictures of birds may be shown in the same
way, the beak being the first to appear.

Tree Silhouettes
Cut from black paper the silhouette of trees. The
trees particularly well adapted to this game are
spruce, pine, elm, red cedar, weeping willow, palm,
sugar maple, Lombardy poplar, and white oak.
Hold up the silhouette for naming.

Nature Alphabet

This is played with “sides.” The leader names a
letter of the alphabet. ,Each player on each side in
order names a bird, Hower, or tree (decided upon
before starting) which begins with that letter.
Anyone who cannot do so in less than five seconds
is out. No one is to name an object which has
already been named. The patrol having the great—
est number of players left at the end of a certain
time is the winner, or the last group to name an
object beginning with that letter wins one point
for his team.

Leaf Passing

Choose a broad leaf. Players stand in rows. At
a given signal, the one in front passes the leaf over
head to the one behind, who passes it between his
legs to the next, and so on, alternating over and
under. The one at the back of the line runs to the
front, and the leaf is passed back again. This is
repeated until the one who started in front is back
again. If the leaf is torn or injured in any way,
the game is lost.

'D'E'I'V'D'E' K '1'“!an

“a
\
ll

Program for Gardeners

HE FOLLOWING set of guides for 1946 garden-
ers was drawn up by the United States De-
artnient of Agriculture and presented at the
Jrational Garden Conference held in VVashing-
on, D. C., March 26—28:

'1. Add your bit to the world food supply. By grow-

ing a part of your 'family’s needs, you release food
stocks that can be used somewhere else in the world.

     

[‘0

. Plan your garden carefully. Grow enough to sup-
ply your needs for fresh qegetables and as much
extra as you can preserve for family stocks.

. Make successive plantings for continuous supplies
and late crops.

La.)

4. Your garden will make it easier to save “a slice of
bread a day” by enabling you to have an extra fresh
vegetable with every meal.

3. Stay with your garden throughout the season.

6. Figure out how much your garden can save you in
money.

7. Work toward a permanent garden.

8. Gardening is fine exercise. Nothing like a little
spade and hoe work to keep you out in the fresh
air and in good shape.

9. Relaii! No better way to forget your problems than
to get down in the dirt and dig.

10. And eat better. You can’t beat fresh vegetables and
fruits right out of your own garden for Flavor and
nutrition.

Prove It
Players sit in a circle. The one starting the
Irame says, “From where I am I can see a gray
iirch and a black cherry.” The next player re-
qeats all that the previous players have said, in
exactly the same order, and adds another tree or

T

Ibird. It may be limited to what is seen on one gray
birch tree. If anyone doubts the statement, he may
challenge the speaker. Anyone caught unable to
defend his statement drops out of the game.

Grand Change

Players are divided into four groups, as black
Qaks, red oaks, chestnuts, aqd elms. Players stand
by their trees—no two at any one tree. “It” stands
at the center and calls the name of a group—
elms, for instance. At each signal, the designated
group must change places. “It” tries to claim a
ftree in the interchange. If the center player calls
i'forest, everyone is required to change but must
"keep to his particular kind of tree.

Nature Sounds
The group are given five minutes to see who
can make the longest list of things heard in the
woods during that time. It may be a raindrop,

.I'I'KH'I"! Inn-n

DAY CAMPING 47

Now Again Available

BADGES

FOR BOYS' AND GIRLS'
ATHLETIC BADGE TESTS

Order now for June delivery

Pdce 20c each

National Recreation Association

3|5 FOURTH AVENUE
New York IO, N. Y.

 

 

 

crow, rooster in distance, rustling leaves of oak or
the swish of the pine, tapping of the woodpecker,
or song of the brook.

Holding the Front

Hikers travel in single file. The file occasion-
ally is halted and the first person in the file is
asked to identify a tree or plant by the side of the
road or some distance ahead. If he fails he is sent
to the rear of the line and the second becomes the
first and is asked the next question. The person
able to answer the most questions and remain at
the front for the greatest period of time wins the
game—From Pittsburgh Day C amps C ounsellor’s
Manual, 1945.

Day Camping
(Continued from page 27 )

2. Woodland games while hiking
such as:
a. Spy
b. Dash
(1. Matching Leaves
(1. Nature Clumps
e. Watching the Trail
3. Wading in the Pecos River

48 MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND

Latrines—washing of hands—drinks
Explanation of proper cooking pro-
cedures with sticks

Singing of Grace

11 :45-——12 :00 .\.M.

“Come and Git It” at Chuckwagon
1. Distribution of nosebags and bet-
tled cow

12:10— 1:00 RM. Eating of lunch within the “Corral”
1.Disposal of “honey”
2. Disposal of paper
3. Remaining lunch to Chuckwagon
4. Empty cow bottles collected and
returned to Chuckwagon

12:00—12:10 RM.

Rocking Chair Emma Period
1. Relaxing on “sougans” under some
tree -

2. Reading

3. Tall Tales

4. “Whittlin’ ”

5. Sketching for Pin-up Gallery
6. Exploration

7. Collecting

8. “Chin music”

9. Signalling
10. Lashing r
11. Woodland gadgets

Pecos Bill H'our _

1.Roping or Lariat Competition

2. Chumfoo Nature Quest (identifi-
cation of the following):
1. One strand of Pecos Bill’s hair
2. Slue-foot Sue’s favorite flower
3.Lightnin’s favorite food
4. Snagtooth Sal’s umbrella
5. A nut for Bean Hole’s pancakes

3. Wild West Show

4. Bullfrogging

5. Rope-jumping Contest

6. Jump the Pecos

7. Horseshoes

1 :00— 2:00 RM.

2 :00— 3:00 RM.

,

3:10— 3:40 RM. Game “Dispatch Running’ or “Cap-

ture the Flag”

3 :40— 4:00 RM. The Last Round Up

1. Selection of threeoutstanding cow-
punchers and three outstanding
cowgirls—Initiation into Wouser
Pack

2. Initiation into Tribe. of Chumfoos

3. Distribution of Pecos Bill and
Slue—ifoot Sue “brands”

4:00— 4:10 RM. Retreat

1. Proper folding of the Flag

4:10— 4:25 RM. Group singing while equipment is

being packed—circle games

4:25~—— 4:30 RM. Singing of Taps and Friendship
Circle

4:30— 5:00 RM. Departure from I-X—L Ranch and ar—
rival at playground.

be a frequenter of the Memphis playgrounds.

ginning of the season. A safety song and a play—

Counselor to Camper

( Continued from page 31)

friendly familiarity with the camp area. He ough
to know the poisonous plants in the area, the dan
gerous spiders, insects and snakes—if they ar
present—and the more common plants and ani
mals. He should come to realize that the forest i
a friendly place and dangers are“ few. He shoul
know what hazards to avoid, to be sure, but at th
same time he should understand that most 0
nature is beneficent.

Most camp areas have variety and beauty. Thei
possibilities for the development of a sense of out
door enjoyment in the lives of campers are tre
mendous. One of the great contributions that th
camp experience can make is the development
an understanding and appreciation of America’
natural heritage.

 
  
   
    
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
   

Music on the Playground

(Continued from page 15)

Sweetly Sings the Donkey

The Animal Fair

Along Came 3 Spider

Pussy

Monkey and the Zebra

Old MacDonald Had a Farm 7
Pussy Willow

Take Me Out to the Ball Game
The Spider and the Fly

Puppet and Folk Dance Weeks

Bump a Daisy

\Ve All Clap Hands

My Hat It Has Three Corners
Little Prairie Flower

Hansel and Gretel Dance
Captain Jinks Come Home at Night
Galway Piper

Jump Jim Crow

Chebogah

Come! Let Us Be Joyful
Comin’ Thro’ the Rye

Dance of Greeting

Circle Dance 3

Good Night, Ladies
Little Red Handkerchief
Memphisl Tennessee (292,942). “The winds
sing— and the motors hum — why not Y—O-U ?”
says the Memphis syllabus for playground work-.
ers. And, indeed, there seems little reason Why.
Y-O-U should not hum or sing if you happened t

Each playground selected three songs at the be-

ground theme song were to be used for special

DTP/“DI? Ii 'T‘TfN'kT

M’USIC ON THE PLAYGROUND 4‘)

 

. '. . Bowling in a GENERAL STORE!

This is an actual photograph taken in a General Store in Mill Village, Pa., . . . you can be
sure to find a Two-Way Bowling Alley wherever people congregate for fun and relaxation.
Two-Way Bowling Alleys are located in Schools, Church Centers, Boys’ Clubs, Community
Centers, Bowling Centers, etc., all across the country. Two-Way Bowling is so extremely
popular because it is played and scored exactly the same as regulation bowling . . . yet a

Two-Way Alley costs a fraction of a regulation alley. WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE
LITERATURE AND COMPLETE INFORMATION.

*TWO-WAY BOWLING CORP.*

“4 EAST 32nd STREET . Telephone LExing’ron 2-8828 . NEW YORK l6. N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 

days, athletic contests and any other special oc— '

casions. In addition each ground chose a song
typical of its special summer project. All these
songs were registered at the central ofhce.

Each playground director was urged to survey
the neighborhood to find out what children and
what adults played instruments. It was suggested
that all players so found be formed into a play—
ground band with one of their number as leader.
Regular rehearsals were to be held and the band
would play at least one selection for each special
day program.

For each special day program a “song rally by
ear” was scheduled. The whole group present was
divided into two sides which would alternate in
singing songs appropriate to the occasion.

APRIL 1946

Other musical events scheduled for Memphis
were concert bands and rhythm bands and drum
corps for boys and girls of twelve or over.

Think It Over

These are only a few cases in point. They may
give you an urge to go and do likewise or they
may start your own ideas circulating in entirel}
different channels. There are endless combinations
of musical activities. Nor does nmsic need to be
set aside for a special hour each day (-1‘ each week.
It can go in and out of your total 1m gram—your
crafts, your games, your storytelling. your danc—
ing—like “It” in Go In and Out m. LVindows.
For music in one form or another -as a partici-
pant activity or an audience acting—combines

'easily ,with many other activities.

What Editors Say About “The ABC's Of

Public Relations For Recreation"

“ I T IMPREssEs me as one of the wisest promotions 

in the interest of publicity I have seen under-
taken by any organization. It will be particularly
helpful in securing additional newspaper space in
communities where small newspapers serve as the
primary medium and are necessarily staffed with
minimum personnel. ‘

“Your publication should not only help to obtain
more publicity for recreation departments but also
create a better news source for newspapers. A
great deal of publicity never gets nearer publica-
tion than the closest waste-paper basket because it
is poorlylprepared and requires too much time to
edit.”———E. E. Dilliner, News Editor, The Sentinel,
Centralia, Illinois.

“Excellent !”—A1bert W. Spiers, Editor, M ichi-
gan City News Dispatch, Michigan City, Indiana.

“First intelligent job I’ve ever seen.”—King
\Villiams, The Chicago Heights Star, Chicago
Heights, Illinois.

“I have looked through your pamphlet on The
ABC’s of Public Relations for Recreation, and I
have only one word to describe it—splendid. It
is by far the most concise, thorough and interest-
ing discussion of the subject that I have run across
and I’m sure it will be of immense value to the
general cause. As you know, newspapers are more
than willing to cooperate in any activity which
looks toward the betterment of the community-4
and recreation is certainly o’ne of these. The
trouble has been too often that those in charge of
recreation activities do not realize the newspaper’s
problems and approach the whole subject of public
relations, so far as the press in concerned, in a neg-
ative manner. I’m going to turn your advance
proof over to our local park department recrea-
tion director and I’m sure it will help him a great
deal.”—Dan Albrecht, City Editor, The foliet
Herald-News, Joliet, Illinois.

“Well done!”—Oala Leaves, Oak Park, Illinois.

“I have read The AB C’s of Public Relations for
Recreation and believe it a fine job. I am no judge
of the other parts, but I do know something about
newspapers, and have no suggestions to make as
to improving what you say along that line. I think
you cover the ground very well. Your ABC’s has
my OK.”—Maurice Frink, Editorial Page Editor,
The Daily Truth, Elkhart, Indiana.

“I think you have covered the field well.”—'W.

SO

 
 
    
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

A. Bailey, Editor, Kansan, Kansas City, Kansas.

“Pregs section is a very fine job.”—J. P. Hamel
Managing Editor, Daily Tribune, Columbia, Mis
souri. ‘

“As for the newspaper section, if all those wh
submit news items and stories would follow you
ABC instructions, we newspaper people woul
have a much easier job.”—Gordon B. Seavey
Managing Editor, Belmont Citizen, Belmont, Mas
sachusetts.

“The booklet which you sent us, AB C’s of Pub
lic Relations for Recreation, most certainly cover
the subject in a very satisfactory manner.

“It appears to us that this booklet will be of in
hnite value not only to recreation directors bu
also to newspapers as well.

“We congratulate you on a most excellent manu
script and typographical make-up.”—Merton J.
Austin, Director, Public Relations, The Sentinel
Star, Orlando, Florida.

“We thought that the advanced proof copy 0
the ABC’S of Public Relations for Recreation was
an excellent job, so good that the city editor said
he was going to steal some ideas from it for use
with our district correspondents.”—John R. Her—
bert, Managing Editor, Quincy Patriot Ledger,
Quincy, Massachusetts.

“Your ABC’s of Public Relations for Recrea—
tion looks O.K. to me. I believe that you have
covered the subject, as far as the newspaper phase
is concerned, adequately.”—Quimby Melton, Jr.,
Editor, Grijjin Daily News, Griffin, Georgia.

“Thanks for sending us an advance proof copy
of ABC’s of Public Relations for Recreation. We
found it interesting and were glad to receive it.”—
Lynn H. Holcomb, Managing Editor, Akron B ea-
con Journal, Akron, Ohio.

“Excellent job! Wish it were in poster form so
it could be displayed for SOC-Odd organization
that feed in here the most awful copy imaginable.”
—Ben Marino, Managing Editor, Evening News,
North Tonawanda, New York.’

“Thank you for the proof copy of the ABC’s of
Public Relations for Recreation. Not only do
think it very well covers the subject for recreation,
but believe that any other organization could us

the publicity-getting suggestion to great advan
tage.”—Louise M. Shadduck, The Coeur d’Alen

Press, Coeur d’Alene, Idaho.

. I
I

"I

 

PLAYGROUND SEASON— I945

Playground Season— I 945 ‘

(Continued from page 13)

the year. The expenses of hiring instructors and
providing equipment is shared by the two Sponsor-
ing organizations. The responsibility of selecting,
training, and supervising the playground directors
is assumed by the Health Education Department
of the public schools.

The summer program includes supervised ac-
tivities at forty-seven playgrounds, most of these
located at schools; ten beaches and pools, five pub-
lic golf courses, a number of softball and baseball
diamonds, three square dancing pavilions, and
other facilities.

Individual playground programs vary, but each
includes a crafts program, quiet games, organized
individual and team games and contests, and group
non—competitive games. Most of the playgrounds
are open from I to 9 P. M. six days a week. Some
are open on Sundays also.

The program at the beaches and pools includes
instruction in swimming and diving for beginners
and advanced students of all ages, and life-guard
service. The Denver Chapter, American Red
Cross, trains and certifies the instructors for this
program. A plan of having assistant instructors

ensures a continuous supply of trained instructors
and life-guards.

During the summer, softball and baseball leagues,
sponsored by the American Legion, the “Old-
Timers Association” and various business firms,
play afternoon and night games at various dia-
monds in community centers throughout the city.

Square dancing, a very popular form of recrea—
tion in Denver, is provided for at three centers.
Special nights are set aside for teen-agers, and
others for adults. These picturesque dances, with

many participants wearing fanciful and colorful
costumes, attract many spectators.

Organized city-Wide tournaments are held in
marbles, table tennis, horseshoe pitching, softball,
baseball, badminton, and swimming. In addition,
an all-city “Girls’ Day” is held at which skits are
presented, games are played, and a special effort
is made to spread a spirit of friendly competition
amongst youngsters from various parts of the city.

The recreation program staff furnishes umpires,
leaders, and other services for the local Industrial
League, composed of employees of many firms in
the city. This league has a year-long program of
organized competition in many sports.

APRIL 1946

51

A WINNING PROMOTION
A NATURAL TIE IN

“SWIM-Filli-HEAL’I‘H WEEK”

JUNE 24- to 29

The Eleventh Annual National Swim for Health
Week, Launched in a Barrage of Publicity from

Coast to Coast, will be Celebrated During the
Week of June 24th to 29th.

Here’s your opportunity t capitalize on a tremendous
national campaign! This year public interest in SWIM
FOR HEALTH WEEK is expected to reach a new high.
Every medium of publicity will be pressed into service
. . . radio, newspaper, motion pictures and national pub-

lications ‘. . . all with one purpose in mind—to make
America swim conscious!

 

Institutional Poster for use at
any time . . . Printed in five
colors . . . is 13%” by 17%”
in size . . . has 2%” blank
space for two-line imprint.
Price $7.50 per hundred. Extra

1946 Swim for Health Week
poster . . . printed in three
colors . . . 133/2” by 17%”
in size . . . 2%” blank space
on bottom for two-line im-
print. Price $6.00 per hun-
dred to cover cost of printing,
handling and shipping. Extra
charge of $2.50 per hundred

for two-line imprint.

(Illinimum Imprint Order—100 Posters)

charge of $2.50 per hundred
for two-line imprint.

Naturally, you will want to take advantage of such a
promotion—it’s planned for YOU! The groundwork is
laid . . . the stage is set! But it’s a promotion that will
be worth nothing unless you, yourself, develop all local
possibilities . . . don’t pass up a single one!

Hundreds of Chapters of the American Red Cross,
Boys’ Clubs, Young Men’s Christian Associations, Young
Women’s Christian Associations, Commercial and Mn-
nicipal Swimming Pools, high schools and colleges, news-
papers, radio stations, stores and national advertisers
have cooperated in the promotion of Swim for Health
Week campaigns.

FOR INFORMATION REGARDING

Swimming Lessons for Children, Local Tie-ups, Endorsements,
competitive Swimming Meets, Trophies, Ncwspaper and Radio
Publicity Releases —- Write to :

Martin Stern, Executive Director

SWIM FOR HEALTH ASSOCIATION

60 East 42nd Street
New York 17, New York

52 NOW ALL TOGETHER

 

 

you Gan Use

THE JOURNAL oi HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:
0 HEALTH EDUCATION

0 PHYSICAL 
0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase ot school programs relating to health.
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION

1201 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

 

High point of the crafts program is an exhibit
held late in August each summer at \Nest High
School. Several hundred youngsters display use—
ful and decorative articles made from such materi*
als as leather, wood, clay, scrap metal, and plastic.
The articles exhibited are selected as typical of the
more than ten thousand crafts articles made on
the playgrounds during the summer. Several hun—
dred ash trays and similar articles have been made
for the Red Cross. Scrap paper collection has been
a regular part of the program for two summers.

The Denver program attracts 195,000 people
weekly during the summer as active participants in
one or another of the wide variety of activities
offered. Many thousands of others watch the
league competitive games.

Now All Together

(Continued from page 23)

has been set up to one side of the stage for this
dance to save time in placing it in position.) The
group returns to place off stage, and the Leader

of the next episode comes down center and an*
nounces:

Episode Four
The Russian Way of Play

In Russia they are very gay

When they gather ’round to play,
And whether many or a few,

They join in games, a dance or two,
And lift their voices up and sing
Until they make the welkin ring,

All in the spirit of good fun,

And this is somewhat how it’s done:

The group runs on singing and pantomiming,
Russian Haymaking Dance, or other suitable se-—
lection. From this they give a program as sug-
gested:

I. Game—One, Two, Three. 2. Troika: 3. Kar-
kushka. 4. Cossack Dance. Group runs off with
joyous shouts, and the Leader of the next episode
goes down center and announces:

Episode Five
Gift of Our Fathers

Our fathers left a rich bequest,
North and South and East and W eSt,
Of cultures that has come to stand
For all the peoples of this land—
The songs and dances that now bind
Us All Together as one kind.

This episode is a melange of games, songs and
dances from all sections of our country and repre—
sentative of as many nationalities and races as de-
sired, and is given by each group in turn in quick
succession, not over a minute.

There should be included in this episode all the
nationalities not in the preceding ones, as Greeks,
Swedes, Italians, French, Spanish, Germans,
Danish, Scotch or as many as practicable, and‘
suitable numbers provided for them, either a song
or dance. There should be,'also, a Negro Spiritual
or other number typical of them, and a suggestion
is All God’s Chillen Got Wings 0r Little David,
where there is no objection to dialect.

Suggested Program: I. Negro group comes on
singing the song assigned them and expressing
the theme in rhythm or a characteristic dance.
2. Italian Tarantelle, or a peasant dance. 3. Span-
ish—Fandango or similar «dance. 4. Scotch—
Highland Fling, or other similar kind. 5. French
—Gav0tte, 0r Pavanne. 6. Polish—Krakoviak.
7. Swedish—Klap Danzen. 8. German—Partner
Dance, or like type. 9. Danish— Danish Hornpipe.

 

10. AlltAmericanhBarn Dance, or Arkansas Trav- H

eler, in which all the participants in the festival \
.1"

take part, or a selected number from each group.

RECREATION

HOW WE IMPROVED THE PLAYGROUND 53

[his is A Melting Pot number, and should be
‘arried out in that spirit. From the dance, all the

participants form left and right of stage and sing, IN  

Shout I Am An American.
Fellowship then goes to center and recites:

A Pledge for Young Americans

( Others repeat each line after him, right hands raised.)

I will remember that the American people are a
people of many races, religions and nationalities.

I will respect the. right of my schoolmates and
neighbors to enjoy the freedoms I enjoy without
regard to race or creed. '

I will constantly search for true facts so that I,
myself, will not believe or spread rumors against
any group of people.

I will work for unity and peace in my community
by opposing racial and religious prejudice wher-
ever I meet it.

(From the Junior Red Cross Bulletin for

ln‘cvcry field of sport in. Profes‘
sionalJScmi-Pro and Amateur Bose:

Playgrounds. and Camps!  bail and-Softball. in" Universities.

_ _ Colleges' ondHiQH Schools. in Mu-

The entire assemblage then Sings, H yrnn of the nicipal and Indumial- Recreation,

. . . - MacGrc or-G Idsm'thS is
Untied N attons, and marches off on the last lines. Equgpmfi, ,,,:,,,,,; “39;...

mark of quality and unvary‘mg
pcrfwmancc.

How We Improved the Playground

r (Continued from page 8)

j sit-down—and-do—or—watch places. A beach um-
brella covers one unit. These chairs overlook the

 

game field and form a natural division between the of howers which give such gay color contrast to
field and the more quiet play area near the SChOOl the awning stripes above them. Flowers for the
building. A low table encircles a tree at one side cafeteria tables‘ are cut each day.
and the small benches provide another of the re- A border has been dug around the outer end of
laxing spots so noticeable when one first sees the the baseball diamond. This summer the children
yard. ' ' a are using it for vegetables and flowers. In the fall

Near the alley fence and not too far from the the heads of one of the industries will plant shrubs.
picnic table shelter is a large outdoor hreplace— \VC plan to make an all-year OUtdOOl‘ habitat for
an extremely suggestive arrangement for fun and animals.
frolic. Painted concrete building blocks prOvide the There iS a hose for OlltdOOI‘ ShOWCI‘ bathS, a
stools for the fireplace area. Along the fence the metal pipe junglegym and ladder, and there are
bean vines and morning glories make a pleasing swings for those who prefer the perpendicular in
background swinging as opposed to the horizontal as in the

hammock.
Flowers and Vegetables

The ground itself is covered with blacktop—a TWCntY‘four Feet 0f Spray
not too satisfactory covering but one of those ex- \Ve now have a homemade outdoor shower 011
periments necessary before one is able to know the side of the building overlooking the baseball
just what is best. Consequently most of the gar— diamond. A two-inch pipe, ten feet high, is at-
dening—vegetable and flower—must be done along tached to the wall. A horizontal pipe, closed at
the edges of the playground or in large white boxes the outer end, is attached to this by an elbow.
set here and there over the grounds. All four of Three rows of holes have been drilled twenty-four
the awning shelters are surrounded by large boxes inches from the end, which make a triple spray

APRIL 1946

54 A PUBLIC AGENCY AND A PRIVATE AGENCY WORK TOGETHER

 

extending for a distance of twenty-four feet. At
three o’clock in the afternoon when the children
get up from their sleep they put on bathing suits
for water play. For forty-live minutes boys and
girls run into and out of the stream and lie in the
sun on the “beaches.”

The playground will never be finished for there
will always be something to do. The children are

full of ideas and so are our patrons and community _

sponsors. The playground invites to play, either
vigorous or quiet, either with others or alone,
either active or passive. It is another kind of en-
vironment in which children have opportunities to
grow—Reprinted by permission from Childhood
Education, September, 1945.

A Public Agency and a Private
Agency Work Together

( Continued from page 25)

gathered at Neighborhood House on Friday morn—
ings and made“ the trek to the playground with
the Neighborhood House worker, the leader they
had come to know. They soon knew another grOUp
leader, for on the playground the game period,
like the craft class, was under joint leadership.
These children also came to know and like a new
group of young people, for those on the play-
ground joined the group from Neighborhood
House in the activities which they all enjoyed.

Other Features

Before the summer was over a pet show was
organized as a joint project. And to close the
playground season we planned and carried out a
Neighborhood Night where children, young peo-

ple, and adults participated in games, contests, and
folk dances. g.

What happened in west end Syracuse this past I
summer? We feel that many children and young «
people were better served because two agencies!
recognized a common goal, accepted their respec- 
tive limitations, and joined hands to do a better-
job than either one could have done alone. We
are convinced that an intelligent job of commu-

nity service can be accomplished only through co- .

l
1'
d
l
l

“ operation and coordination, and we are ready toi
_travel further on the road which we opened during

 

the summer of 1945.

Wings of the World

(Continued from page 20)

 

ground boy would become the Co-Pilot and the
best all-around girl the Co-Stewardess. A chart '
was tacked to the walls of the field houses on the l
playgrounds. It showed the children’s names and '
gave a daily account of their activities. The chil—
dren were given credit only for participation, the
object of the contest being to draw those children ,
who before had confined their activities to the soft- '
ball field into dramatics, music, crafts and various
other activities which make for a well rounded 3
playground boy or girl. ,

Each director submitted his four highest scores

'to a committee of judges a few days before the

Play Festival. These judges selected the sixteen
best and designated the Co-Pilot and Co-Steward- I
ess. At the close of the pageant Cinderella, pre-
sented on Play Festival day at Overton Park, the
Superintendent of Recreation and the President of'
the Youth Service Council read the names of the
winners 'from the stage on_ Rainbow Lake. Each
child received a certificate from Chicago and
Southern Airlines.

On the morning of August 29, which incident-
ally was clear and beautiful, sixteen excited and I
happy children were driven to the Municipal Air- -
port. The huge silver plane no doubt seemed |
mammoth to them. The co-stewardess was dressed
as an airlines stewardess—a navy blue skirt, white
blouse and a little blue cap. She was busy with -
her job as stewardess through the whole trip. The
co-pilot was slightly awed with the importance of ,4
sitting by a real pilot. The trip was made without ,
incident but with much pleasure. The plane re-i.
turned safely to its base, thus marking the end of 
another happy summer season on the playgrounds ‘

in Memphis, Tennessee.

RECREATION

   
    

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of P ‘
2 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker l

   
 
     

MAGAZINES
Parks and Recreation, January-February 1946

A Challenge on Youth Activities (Part I), W. L.
Wirth

Big Recreation Year in New York Parks

City Park Standards in New York, Robert Moses

London Parks—in Peace and War, Sir Stephen
Tallents

The Maintenance Mart

f‘
Journal of Physical Education, January-February 1946

Sports Forum Experiment, Wes McVicar
Boxing in High School for Character, Max Marek

Journal of Health and Physical Education, February 1946

The Society of State Directors of Health and Physi-
cal Education, George W. Ayars

Coordinated Recreation for the Conimmunity, Lt.
Robert E. Link

Seven-Player Speedball, Dorothy R. Davies

Safety Education, March 1946
Swimming for Safety, Health, Fun, Howard R. De
Nike
Parents’ Magazine, March 1946

North Carolina Brings Music to Its Children,
Adeline McCall

. Beach and Pool, February 1946

Important Factors to Consider when Planning the
Community Pool

f—Scholastic Coach, February 1946
Physical Education Can Be Fun! Stanley L. Clement

H ygeia, March 1946

Physical Fitness, Health and the Returning Service-
men, Arthur F. Byrnes

Basketball Can Be Harmful, Carrol C. Hall

National Parent-Teacher, March 1946
It’s Our Job to Cunb Crime, J. Edgar Hoover
Art Is for All of Us, Jean Louise Smith

Think, March 1946
. Gardening as a Way of Life

The Teachers' Digest, March 1946
“I Can’t Play with You No More,” Sara Haardt

Journal of Health and Physical Education, March 1946
Why Play “Girls’ Rules in Basketball? Miriam Gray
Suggested School Health Policies (Part III)

‘ PAMPHLETS

Girl Scouting as an Educational Movement

Girl Scout National Headquarters, 155 East 44th
Street, New York 17, New York.

Suggested Recreational Program for the Disabled at a
Recreation Center

Bureau of Recreation, Department of Public Wel-
fare, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

APRIL 1946

" MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 55

RIDE
YOUR
HOBBY

with these

HELPFUL

a

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . .8150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
FASHION SKETCHFS. by Charlotte Young . . . . . . . .. 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Charles Carlson. . . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00
PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES,byCharIotteH.Yonng 1.00
CARTOONING IS A FUNNY BUSINESS, by S. B. Faier 1.00
BUSINESS 0F CARTOONING. by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
DRAWING FOR ILLUSTRATION, by-Arthur Zaidenberg 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING. by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East llth Street New York. N. Y.

 

11,000,000 Boys and Girls
The Whole Town’s Talking

Associated Youth Serving Organizations, Inc., 143
East 56th Street, New York 22, New York

Teen Time

Kansas State College, Recreation Extension Service,
Manhattan, Kansas

Detroit Serves Its- Youth (A report of the Mayor’s Ad-
visory Committee on Youth Problems, January-1945)

Council of Social Agencies of Metropolitan Detroit,
51 West Warren, Detroit 1, Michigan. 50 cents

Plan Book—Community Sports and Recreation Activities

The Athletic Institute, 209 South State Street, Chi-
cago 4, Illinois

Recreation Survey and Long-Range Plan for City of
Portsmouth, Virginia, W. C. Batchelor

Mr. Archie G. Israel, Director of Recreation, New
Market House, Portsmouth, Virginia

Recreation Survey and Long-Range Plan for Norfolk
County, Virginia, W. C. Batchelor

Mr. Harry C. Paxson, Jr., Recreation Director, Nor-
folk County, 71 Afton Parkway, Cradock, Ports-

mouth, Virginia

Guide to Formation of Recreation Councils

Home Construction of Playground School Appara-
tus, C. M. Bedford. 25 cents

Saskatchewan Recreation Movement, 51 Canada Life
Building, Regina, Saskatchewan

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Square Dances
By Ed Durlac‘her. Arranged by J. S. Browne. Mills
Music, Inc., New York. $1.00.
THIS IS A COLLECTION of twelve square dances with
music, calls and descriptions prepared by a master.
Included with the publication is a folder of violin ar-
rangements for the dances which supplement the piano
music. Four pagesof pictures illustrate the figures of the
.dances. 1

Fun with Puzzles

By Joseph Leeming. J. B. Lippincott Co., New York.
'- $2.00.

 ERE Is A BOOK OF PUZZLES best described by its table of

contents which follows: Match Puzzles, Puzzles with
Coins or Counters, Brain Twisters, Number Puzzles.
EMathematical Puzzles, Pencil and Paper Puzzles, Cut-
Out-and~Put-Together Puzzles, Anagrams and Related
Word Puzzles, Word Puzzles, Miscellaneous Puzzles.
The answers are separated from the puzzles 'by enough
' ‘pages to insure against inadvertent cheating!

Working in Leather

By M. Ickis. The House of Little Books, New York.
$1.00.

H ERE IS A CLEAR and graphic set of rules for working in
leather. From the selection Of the hide to details
of tooling, the directions are easy to follow and accom-
panied by excellent drawings illustrating the procedures.
l'Vorking in Leather is obviously a valuable addition to

any craft library.

Time on Your Hands

National Education Association. Washington, D. C. $.25.
WILLIAM VAN TIL worked with a group of associates

to develop a unit for high school students on “choos-
ing and using recreation.” The result is Unit No. 3 in
the Consumer Education Series, an interesting and clear
analysis Of the problems in using leisure time that are
likely to confront high school age youngsters. Sugges—
tions for solving the problems as individuals or as groups
are no small part of the lbook’s value. Recommended.

The Community Can Do It

Atzis/tralian Broadcasting Commission, Sydney, Australia.
AWHOLE NEW and spontaneous movement toward com-

munity planning seems to be abroad in postwar Aus-
tralia. This booklet, designed to serve as a discussion
guide, describes some Of the outstanding examples of
community organization-“for health, for recreation, for
the general welfare of Australians who seek in their
towns and cities to find ways of 'bettering t‘heir abiding
places. As a record Of a “grass roots” program in practi-
cal democratic action this booklet is recommended.

56

What Can I Do Now?

Ninth District Incorporated. California Congress of Par-
gnztg and Teachers, 645 A Street, San Diego, California.

THE UPTOWN COORDINATING COUNCIL of San Diego,

California, initiated the making of this “handbook of
answers for parents” to 'help parents plan the home life
of their children. The chapter headings indicate the scope
of the booklet. Some of them are: “Recreation in the
Home,” “Home Handcraftf’ “Hobbies for Children.”
“Family Celebrations and Records,” “Home Responsi
bili=ties for Children.” Although some Of the material is
concerned especially with San Diego and San Diego
County, much Of it is of general interest.

We Can Have Better Schools

By Maxwell S. Stewart. Public Affairs Committee, Inc.,
30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York. $.10.

HE PUBLIC AFFAIRS COMMITTEE, in NO. 112 of its

practical pamphlets, considers the future of our schoo
system. The material presented is based on discussions
at a round table of educators of many diverse back-
grounds.

The war showed that the young people of America
were not getting as much good sc‘hooling as peOple
thought they were. The educators who took part in the
conference have worked as critics on the material pre-
sented in this pamphlet which should go far in helping to
work out a vigorous, forward-looking program for the
school’s postwar period.

Ofiicers and Directors of. the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board Of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, President ,
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-PreSident
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer l'

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscon, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar H111, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, IndianapoliS, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass._

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa. '
CARL E. MILLI KEN, Augusta, Me._ _ \
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San FranCISco, Calif.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord,_N. H.

STANLEY VVOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

