The State Government
in Recreation

HRILLING IS THE STORY of what we the people do for ourselves in recreation
through our State governments. Varied is the pattern. Natural has been the

  
 
  
  
 
 
    
   
 
  
  

ithin the States.

Even the very considerable and substantial central State recreation deve10pments
North Carolina and Vermont' have largely come from leadership within the State.

our State governments are fairly close to us. We feel as if we might have a
and in changing programs. The very fact that the area is smaller makes it easier
r us to grasp what goes on. Yet the State of Virginia is as large as Italy, the State
, f Texas as large as allof the old Germany. In other words. the planning of the rec-
' ation in many of our States is like planning for a European empire.

Very little has been written about this astonishing development; it has been
attered in forty-eight States. The romance and the adventure of the building of the

ome when we should all know much more about our State government programs.
’ hink of a State like South Dakota, with two million dollars received from hunt-

g and fishing licenses alone in a single year!

Whatever may happen in localities and in the nation it is now clear that State
‘ overnments in the United States are to have a large part in the recreatlon picture.

I for one, as an American citizen, am proud of what our States have done and

. re doing in recreation.
'  - HOWARD BRAUCHER

113

 

 

(u Ill.l'.l 

If... KIN—m tam or: no; {on _mco_+mZ otEomo> .

  

 

   

$.Em2Q m5 “8 23523me HS admixob

 

RECREATION

 

State Agencies and Recreation

It would not be possible in one issue of one magazine to give an all-inclusive

picture of all the recreation services being given by all State agencies in

all the States of the Union. This bird’s-eye view of how certain of these

agencies in thirty-five of those States are serving the cause of recreation

is designed to suggest the enormous possibilities in the field and the various

ways in which the States are setting about to realize those possibilities
through the agencies of the people.

State Parks

I HAT IS Now our world—famous Yosemite Na-
W tional Park was really the first State park

in the United States. The Yosemite Valley
and the Mariposa grove of big trees were given to
.the State of California for “public use, resort and
recreation” by an Act of Congress approved June
. 30, 1864. Subsequently this area was returned to
theFederal government for addition to the Na—
tional Park that had been established in about 1890.

From this beginning State parks have grown
to a total of over 1,000 individual properties in all
of the States with a total of well over 4,000,000
acres, an area about equal to the size of the State
of New Jersey.

Attendance at State parks during the war drop-
ped from 96,000,000 in 1940 to almost 40,000,000
in 1944-, but there is every indication of a tremend-
ous increase in the postwar years. In Florida, for
instance, five of the seven State parks had the high-
est attendance in March 1946 that they have had
in any March since the parks have been open. Pre-
dicted attendance for the month was 16,000, but
actual attendance was 17,682.

What are State parks providing in the way of
recreation for the people who visit them? What
do State parks really mean to the people?

The various States differ in what they offer peo-
ple in their parks, and parks within a State have
different potentialities. In New York a State park
may mean Jones Beach which features bathing in
the Atlantic Ocean as well as in fresh water pools,
a long boardwalk, surf fishing, open air entertain-
ments and dancing, opera, all kinds of games, and
restaurants for those who get hungry in the open
air. Also in 'New York a State park might mean
the Adirondack Park, the second largest preserve
in the'United States. Camping, fishing, canoeing,

JUNE. 1946

boating, hiking, skiing, are some of the activities
that attract hundreds of thousands to this area
every year. And between the wilderness areas of
the Adirondacks and the boardwalk of Jones Beach,
New York and almost all 'the other States have
parks with no limit of interest to those who want
to get away from the city. There are State parks
to go to for a picnic, a baseball game, a 20-mile
hike, a 100—mile canoe trip, a fishing or hunting
expedition, a cooling and invigorating swim, an
over—night camping expedition by a group of boys
or a week-end camping trip for a family, an auto-
mobile ride in the shade of thousands of trees or
an afternoon of sunning on a beach. And more and
more it is possible to find recreation leaders in
State parks to help those who wish to call upon
them to enjoy more fully the hours that can be
spent in recreation.

Just this spring a Supervisor of Recreation was
employed by the Division of Lands‘and Waters for
the State parks in Indiana. In addition to a full-
time camping worker, the Division of State Parks
in Tennessee has also the services of a Recreation
Planner whose salary is paid by the Tennessee
Valley Authority. Michigan. last fall, changed her

‘Division of Parks to the Division of Parks and

Recreation and appointed the first chief of this new
Division. New Hampshire has a Director of Rec-
reation in the State Forestry and Recreation De-
partment. These workers all give year-round ser-
vice to recreation in State parks. There are doubt-
less many others. And during parts of the year
there are a great many people who serve as recre-
ation leaders in the State parks.

In one State there was criticism of one recrea-
tion worker because he tried to regiment people
too much. People who were quite happily engaged
in an activity were disturbed by the leader who
wanted them to try some other activity in which
he was particularly interested himself. Such over-

115

116

zealousness is
not in keeping
with the spirit of
a recreation pro—
gram, and most
recreation work—
ers are very care—
ful to make sure
that pe0ple are -
left free to follow
their interests.

Activities in

State Parks

Indiana State
Parks have for
years carried on
one of the best
naturalist pro-
grams in the
United States.
The program is
at present largely
limited to the
summer season
although eventually some activities will be carried
on throughout the year. Six areas had naturalist
services during the summer of 1944. Trailside mu-
seums are now maintained in three parks, and it
is planned to extend the museum and naturalist
services to all major parks “in the State Park Sys-
tem. The public reSponse to the naturalist pro-
gram has been most gratifying to the officials di—'
recting the work of the parks in Indiana.

Just before the war, N 0rth Carolina conducted
an intensive nature recreation program with forty
workers, including nine naturalists. Through
school cooperation and the use of school buses,
children were brought to the parks during the fore—
noon for a day camp program. This experiment
had been tried in one park the year before and had
been so successful that the program was extended
to other parks.

A summary of nature programs and leadership
in State parks in the last normal year before the
war showed fifteen States providing nature trails
or some kind of nature guidance and frequently
both. No doubt some of these programs have not
been continued during all the war years, but some
kind of program can be expected again, at least
in these States.

Camping, another very popular activity in State
parks, is popular in Indiana and more and more

 

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

 

~ ..-,‘_.,o.-m-vm_.u.‘ n A .-._._ \ .,..~_......x_ _’ ’m‘wy

Courtesy Long Island State Park Commission

New York's Jones Beach

rural groups are taking advantage of camping 0p-
portunities. Demands for camping accommodations
by families and by large. and small groups have
increased. All State parks in Nebraska are pro—
vided with cabins and other facilities for camping.
Three of the seven parks have facilities for group
camping, and these facilities are used to capacity
during the summer by 4-H Clubs, Boy and Girl
Scouts, settlement house groups, and others.

In addition to providing for the major sports,
Indiana has also made provision for minor sports,
such as horseshoes, ping—pong, bicycling, croquet,
badminton, canoeing, hay rides, archery, golf, shuf-
Heboard. Possible also are craft work, community
sings, square dances, illustrated nature lectures.
At one of the parks a substitute for a hay ride is
a cowboy chuck—wagon trip into the hills with
cowboy escort and a supper cooked from, they
chuck—wagon provisions, Cowboy—style, in the
woods. ‘ '

During one week end, as many as 10,000 peOple
have flocked to the Grayling Winter Recreation
Area in Michigan. The area is operated by the Di— _
vision of Parks and Recreation and features a ski‘;

RECREATION

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION . 117

tow, toboggan slides, skating ponds, foot trails.

The area is not designed for professionals but for

people who just. want to have a good time in the
clear winter air.

Ohio is another State which has made a point of
winter sports in State parks. Skiing, skating, to-
bogganing, and hiking, as well as fishing through
the ice are some of the activities that are popular
in the parks of that State.

There are twenty-three recreation lake areas in
Ohio ranging in size from I 5 acres to 15,500 acres.
Parks equipped with simple facilities surround

these lakes. One of their purposes is to provide '

water sports. The State Legislature has appropri-
ated $1,000,000 to the Conservation Department
for recreation programs in lake park areas, ac-
cording to a report received early this year. Many
of the lakes were originally feeders for Ohio’s ex-
tensive canal system begun in 1825.

Annual pageants are held in several of the State
parks in Minnesota. The first such pageant was
inspired by the one hundredthanniversary of the
discovery of Lake ‘Itasca as the source of the
Mississippi River. Communities as well as Indian
Reservations participate in these events.

Many schools close to State parks in New Jer-
sey are conducting day camp programs in them

It has been reported that in one State there are
no swimming pools in any of the public schools of

Air view of Jones Beach

 

IUNE' 1946

the State. Furthermore, the number of pools being
operated by community park and recreation au-
thorities is very limited. Yet every one of the State
parks has facilities for swimming. In this State,
at least, State parks are among the few places
where swimming and other water sports can be
enjoyed.

State Park Attendance

In Spite of a general low attendance at State
parks in 1944 because of the war and the restric-
tions on travel, a great many States reported that
cabins in the State parks were booked to capacity
throughout the season. In Texas consideration
was given to the availability of State parks in locat-
ing camps and War plants with the result that most
of the Texas parks served a large war population.

In New Hampshire people went to parks on'
bicycles and afoot. One industrial group of 500
chartered a train and coal' cars, installed wooden
seats, and rode to within walking distance of the
park. People who got to parks somehow in the
war years will be getting to them again. Statistics
are not yet available for last year, but State park
pe0ple expect all records to be broken this year
In New Jersey it was reported that as early as
October, 1945, people had signed up for cabins in
one of the parks through Labor Day, 1946.

1 Future Plans

What are some of the plans for State parks?
Some time ago Illinois announced a $7,000,000
program for construction, im—
provement and development of
State parks. More than half _of
the program. was in the blueprint
stage to be launched as soon as
the war ended, and when the total
program has been completed there
will be at least one State park
within fifty miles of every Illi-
nois community.

The Illinois Legislature has
approved an appropriation of
$1,100,000 for the acquisition and
development of new areas and an
Operating budget of $1,031,703
for the biennium ending June 30,
I947-

.Tennessee is following now a
ten-year plan which provides for
a recreation area within fifty
miles of every Tennessee home.

‘v‘ r
@va

1.1.

.
.
.
.' v o
I- | u” ‘.
.‘ n n
._ A
“u: ' ‘c. i
,4
x a
9‘ I M o
r ' - u
; I“ ' 1
I t 3
v. .o
, -
1
. :
a
'G‘ .
y
'0‘
u

4% .s
A _ Wavy

.
‘ VELTLB?H=

p_ M!
-84..at

118 STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

‘The plan takes into consideration
program as well as general park
development. The State is work-
ing in cooperation with the TVA
and with various other public and
private agencies. The Division of
State Parks is trying to give the
maximum use to the people with-
out building more facilities than
it can afford to maintain ade—
quately.

The new budget being submit-
ted this year for the Division of
.State Parks in Kentucky calls for
an increase in budget from $40,000
last year to $450,000 this next
year. Most of this amount will be
spent for development of areas
and facilities, but more than
$75,000 will be set aside for oper-
ation. There is an item in the
budget for a new Supervisor of Recreation on
State parks. The TVA has transferred to the
State of Kentucky 1,300 acres of property on Ken—
tucky Lake, the largest of the TVA lakes, on the
condition that this property be developed for .rec-
reation purposes.

Indiana’s Department of Conservation is plan-
ning for a State park within thirty-five miles of
every resident of the State. Ten additional parks
are already. planned to bring this program to com-
pletion. A postwar program in Iowa has been
outlined which will cost $28,000,000. Tennessee
has a $2,000,000 postwar program.

Louisiana has developed a postwar State ‘park-

capital improvement program to acquire four new
sites and develop four existing areas. Over
$3,000,000 is planned for the acquisition of the
new sites and almost $1,500,000 for developing the
existing areas. This program is to be carried out
over a period of from three to five years and when
completed should provide a state—wide system of
developed recreation areas.

With the addition of one more major State rec—
reation area in the panhandle section of Oklahoma,
the system of major areas, one within a fifty—mile
radius of any family in the State, will be com—
pleted. _

One more area is needed to complete the State
park system in South Carolina. With three sea-
shore State parks, South Carolina has more than
any other State on the Atlantic seaboard.

According to plans in Ohio it will soon be true

\

 

Courtesy Virginia Conservation Commission

Virginia's Doufhaf Park

that the travel distance for any family to some
State recreation area, not necessarily a State park,
will be not more than thirty miles. Plans are to
increase from twenty—four to thirty—six the num-
ber of State parks in Ohio, including one 11,000
acre area on the shores of Lake Erie. the first
lakeshore park to be established in Ohio.

Alabama has announced a program of postwar
State park additions and improvements exceeding
$1,600,000 depending upon the availability of State
and Federal funds. Swimming facilities, cabin and
hotel accommodations are the principal needs on
the facility side.

'The Superintendent of State parks in North
Carolina has advocated State parks as war me-
morials.

Recent legislation authorizes and directs the
California Department of Natural Resources
through the State Park Commission to make sur-
veys to determine what additional lands are neces-
sary for a well—balanced system of State parks. The
sum of $15,000,000 was appropriated for acquir-
ing lands for public recreation purposes including
ocean beaches, tidewater bays and inlets.

Acquisition of Park Areas

It is interesting to note where State parks have
come from in recent years. New Jersey. for in-

RECREATION

*(v’

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION 119

stance, has received approximately 54,000 acres
in the pine section of southern New Jersey as gifts
of tax delinquent land from various townships of
the State for State park purposes. The old Dela-
ware-Raritan Canal is being reconstructed for rec-
reation as well as industrial use through an appro-
priation of $125,000.

In February this year the Michigan Legislature
appropriated another $750,000 for the Southeast-
ern Michigan recreation program. An area of
100,000 acres is being acquired within fifty miles

of Detroit. About a third of the land is now in '

State ownership. Although Michigan owns almost
5,000,000 acres of land, largely acquired through
tax delinquency, all of it available for all types of
outdOor recreation, it is from I 50 to 500 miles
from the large centers of population. The new
Southeastern area will be open to hunting and
fishing, picnicking, camping, bathing, boating,
canoeing and winter sports.

A third of the funds necessary to purchase Gil-
lette Castle, the residence of the late William
Gillette, the actor, was raised by the Connecticut
Forest and Park Association from donors. The
balance of the money required for establishing this
new State park was appropriated by the State.

The Division of State Parks in Tennessee was

Westmoreland State park, Virginia

 

Courtesy Virginia Conservation Commission

JUNE .1946

created at a very‘ opportune time and as a conse—
quence it has a system of fifteen excellent areas
without much outlay for lands. The TVA has
transferred certain well-developed areas to the Di-
vision. Three Recreational Demonstration Areas,
well-developed for recreation by the National
Park Service, have been deeded to the State and
must be used for recreation. AllState forests pri-
marily suited for recreation have been placed under
the jurisdiction of the Division of State Parks.

The Department of Forests and Waters in
Pennsylvania has set aside sixteen well-known
public playgrounds within the boundaries of the
Pennsylvania State Forests for exclusive use as
parks. The areas comprise over 18,000 acres in
all. The effect of the transfer is that these areas
become State parks under the exclusive jurisdic—
tion of the Park Bureau of the Department, where-
as heretofore the areas were managed as forest
lands.

Any county in Indiana owning a tract of land
containing at least 500 acres _may convey it to the
State for State park purposes and. the Conserva-
tion Commission is authorized to accept such land
and to establish, develop and maintain it as a
State park.

The Michigan Division of Parks and Recreation
recently purchased the Edsel Ford estate which
has a wealth of buildings good for camping and
recreation programs. Money for the construction
of a trailside museum to
cost $40,000 was recently
given to the Division.

Will Rogers State
Park, an area of 186 acres
on the home ranch of the
humOrist in Los Angeles,
was accepted by the Cali~
fornia State Park Com—
mission as a gift from
Mrs. Betty Rogers just
before her death. The
property is valued at
$550,000-

A ghost town became a
State park in California
when a bill was approved
by the Governor appro-
priating $50,000 to be
matched by private funds
to acquire land and struc-
tures in the old business
section of the town of

120 ,STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

Columbia. Columbia has been designated the most
authentic and best preserved of all of the old min-
ing towns. In California, too, a city (Long Beach)
operates a State park (Alamitos Beach State

Park) .

A development of the Recreational Demonstra—
tion Areas has helped many States to improve
their State pa‘rk resources. Under the sponsor-
ship of the National Park Service forty-six of
these areas in twenty—four States, totaling nearly
400,000 acres, were acquired in 1934—35 as part
of the Federal program of retiring submarginal
lands. Except for a' few of the areas which were
intended for addition to. the National Park. Ser-

vice, all were selected and developed under agree-:

ment with the State conservation authorities
whereby the States would accept them for admin~
istration when authorized by appropriate legisla-
tion. Twenty-live of the areas, in whole or in
part, with a total, of 155,845 acres, have been
transferred to the respective States. Seven addi-
tional areas in California, Kentucky, Missouri,
Oregon, and Virginia are available for transfer as
soon as the States are ready to accept them.

The areas were developed through the facilities
of the CCC and “7 PA programs primarily to pro—
vide facilities for organized camping. Facilities for
such activities as picnicking, fishing, hiking, swim-
ming, and informal recreation were also provided
wherever practicable and where there were funds
available.

This article opened with a gift of-a State Park
to California from the Federal government. It
closes with a gift of a National. Park to the Federal
government from the State of Texas. The area to
be known as Big Bend National Park, 700,000
acres in all, was bought by the State of Texas for
about $1, 500,000 and was conveyed recently to the
Federal government in these words: “The State
of Texas in consideration of the United States of
America agreeing to establish, deve10p and main-
tain the area herein described as a National Park,
to be known as the ‘Big Bend National Park’ for
.the use of the public for recreational park pur—
poses, under an Act of Congress, approved June
30, 1935, has granted and conveyed and by these
presents does grant and convey to the United
States of America for recreation park purposes all
these parcels or tracts of land, -. . .” Thus for the
first time .in a deed transferring property from a
State to the Federal government for a National
Park is the word “recreation” used. .

Extension Services

ETTER ECONOMIC, cultural, social, recreational,
B and community life among people living .in
farming areas in the United States is' the goal of
the Agricultural Extension Service. This coopera-
tive movement is jointly administered and sup-
ported by the Federal Department of Agriculture,
the land grant colleges, county governments, and,
in some States, farm organizations. The Smith-
Lever Law of 1914 is the basic law establishing
the service.

In about 1921 emphasis began to be given to
recreation in this program. County agents‘ re-
ported in 1933 that 14,000 communities were de—
veloping recreation activities. The Federal staff
of the Extension Service is' relatively small. In
one prewar year, the staff numbered only fifty '
apart from the clerical workers. The great bulk
of the staff of rural extension workers therefore is
composed of State, county, and volunteer workers.

The Rural Recreation Service of the National
Recreation Association during fourteen years of
cooperation with the Department of Agriculture
and the State colleges of agriculture trained almost
80,000 volunteer leaders in 1,785 institutes in all
the States of the Union. During the fourteen years
the number of States with workers giving some
time to recreation activities grew from three States
with part-time workers to fifteen States with full--
time workers and seventeen more with part—time
workers.

The 4-H Clubs are an important part 'of the
program of the Extension Service. There'were
1,”00,000 members of more than 80,000 4-H
Clubs last year and 1,700 4—H camps with an at—
tendance of 150,000.

This summary, of course, relates to the part that
State colleges of agriculture are playing in the
Agricultural Extension Service in helping to take
recreation to people in the rural areas of the States.

It is now more than fifty years since the New
York State Legislature appr0priated $8,000 to the
New YOrk State College of Agriculture for carry-
ing on extension work in the State of New York.
This action preceded by a good many years the
Smith-Lever Law of the United 'States Congress.
This early New York appropriation made a spe-
cific recommendation in favor of nature work in'
the State’s rural schools. Ever since that First ap-
propriation Cornell University has recognized an

RECREATION

 

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION 121

Obligation for off-campus service
in the rural areas and the rural
schools.

Two .people are giving full-
time service to recreation exten—
sion in the College of Agriculture,
Ohio State University. One mem—
ber of the staff of the Department
of Agricultural Engineering has
been assisting farmers in the con—
struction of farm ponds. These
ponds serve not only for water-
ing animals and for tire emer-
gencies, but for such recreation.
activities as boating, lishing, and
swimming-right there on the farm.
During 1945, I 18 ponds were laid
out by this staff worker. .

The School of Agriculture a
Pennsylvania State College has
taken steps for the employment of a person for the
position of rural recreation Specialist in the exten-
sion service.

Iowa State College employs a drama and recre-i

ation specialist whose time is spent out in the field
meeting with groups of all:kinds and helping them
with recreation programs. Another interesting
phase of the Agricultural Extension of Iowa State
as related to community recreation is the setup for

Square danciné ou’r-oi-doors

 

IUNE 1946

 

4-H Camp at Jackson's Mills,'Wes+ Virginia

community planning. Townships are divided into
areas two miles square with an appointed volunteer
leader in each of these areas. The leader and those
helping him analyze the rural community on the
basis of ten elements—government, education, re--
ligious life, recreation, health, home activities,
farm industry, trade services, conservation, and
community organization. This differs from other
types of rural planning in that it deals with all that
enters into community life in a ,local area. After
the self-analysis
has been made the
question of kinds
of program needed
in the area is given
careful considera-
tion. In many in-
stances a neigh-
borhood spirit
seems to spring
from the joint ef-
forts within the
community plan-
ning area.

The forestry ex-
tension worker in
Nebraska is par-
ticularly interested
in setting aside
woodland areas
for rural peeple,

an K

.. Courtesy Tennessee Department of Comervation

122

whether they be termed “community forests” or
“farm forests.”

The Kansas Agricultural Extension Service
through its recreation specialist has helped to ad-
vance drama, music, games, handcraft, and com-
munity center activities. In a recent year fifty
communities were organized for recreation center
work. The Sears-Roebuck Foundation recently
announced a gift of $25,000 for a 4-H Club Camp
for Kansas to be built when materials are avail-

able, the site for the camp to be donated by the'

State. In 1940 all departments of the college were
asked to reduce their budgets. The recreation
specialist was listed as a service that might be
eliminated. The letters which poured in, however,
after the resignation of the specialist resulted in
the sending of a telegram to the Worker asking her
to return immediately.

' During 1944, 1,630 recreation leaders and pro-
spective leaders in Wisconsin took part in county
recreation schools or laboratories sponsored by the
College of Agriculture of the University of Wis~
consin. The purpose of the schools was to share
ideas,,experien'ces, and skills so that those in at-
tendance might go back to their communities with
new enthusiasms, new skills, and clearer recrea-
tion objectives in mind. There is a Wisconsin
Recreation Leaders Laboratory Association now
which has been incorporated.

More than 30,000 young people have enlisted in
the nature program which “Ranger Mac” has pro-
moted over the radio. This Wisconsin 4-H Club
leader received an award in 1943 for his accom-
plishments in the field of nature education by
radio. He has given much time and effort to the
establishment of community forests, particularly
as related to schools, in cooperation with the State
Forests and Parks Division. There are 212 such
forests in the State.

There are three special workers or artists in
residence at the College of Agriculture of the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin doing special work in the
fields of arts and crafts, drama, and music. These
"specialists have no classroom responsibilities but
spend all their time in small communities or rural
sections. _

So great has been the demand for the employ-
ment of another Recreation Specialist to continue
the work done by a previous worker, that the Uni-
versity of Connecticut Agricultural Extension De-
partment plans now to employ a specialist for
rural work;

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

Massachusetts State College has two Recreation '

Specialists.

The Extension Service in V’Vest Virginia has a
camp at Jackson’s Mills which gives special em-
phasis to training for the 4-H program, with in—
struction in recreation leadership. For some time
there has been an effort to establish a camp in each
county, largely for 4-H clubs. This limited pro-
gram has grown into a movement for a county and

'community recreation center in each county, to be

available to groups of all ages and of varied inter-
ests. Already thirty-two of the fifty-five counties
of the State have such sites in varying stages of
development. The acreage of each camp varies
from 40 to 200 acres, and in addition to their rec-
reation activity program each area is a project in
reforestation and park development.

During a recent year, 164* leader training schools
and demonstrations with an attendance of over
25,000 people were reported by the two Recreation
Specialists of the University of Illinois. The regu-
lar mailing list for the special publications of the
Rural Sociology and Recreation Extension Sec-
tion is over 7,000. The Section also has printed
materials including plays and skits, games, organi-
zation methods, music materials.

A field recreation worker is employed jointly by

the Kentucky College of Agriculture and Berea‘

College. His work is done in the mountain sec-
tions and is limited to folk games and native
dances.

There are two field workers in the Community
Recreation Service at Louisiana State University.

The Extension Landscape Service of the School I

of Horticulture at Indiana is creating interest in
home and grounds improvement through coopera-
tive endeavors on public areas. Because of the
lack of funds for such work, people in rural com-

'munities have been volunteering days each month

to improve and make more attractive school
grounds, churchyards, and park and recreation
areas, and the interest has carried over to their
own homes. The Landscape Service is advocating
a minimum of fifteen acres for rural school grounds.

At Purdue University the School of Agriculture
is cooperating with the State Park and State For-
estry Divisions in the preparation and printing of
twelve manuals on various aspects of nature edu-
cation and recreation suitable for children and

-young people. These manuals will be used by

schools and other agencies in the popular presen-
tation of natural science subjects.

RECREATION

 

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION 123

In South Carolina 4-H Clubs are now called
Community 4-H Clubs. Clemson Agricultural
College owns three large camping areas which are
available to these clubs and to other rural groups.

The Extension Specialist in Landscape Planning
and Gardening at Virginia Polytechnic Institute
' serves Garden Clubs, schools, churches, farms, and
more recently there has been a demand for his
assisting small communities in the development of
their recreation areas.

There are eight people altogether working on
4-H Clubs and with older farm youth in South
Dakota. This staff has an unusual background in‘
recreation with a nature specialist, an expert in
Indian ceremonials, a craft instructor, and several
music leaders. The 4-H Club camp program is
carrying on at three 4-H camps in the State. Be-
tween corn-planting and haying last year, 2,150
different 4-H Club members were able to enjoy a
few days at camp.

Conservation for
Recreation

ONSERVATION has many meanings. To some
C people it will mean the supervising and pro—
tecting and preserving of practically all the natural
resources of the State. Others will think, too, of
historic sites and buildings. And to still others
the word will have a meaning limited to protection
and preservation of fish and game.

The States have varied greatly in what they
have included in the duties of the Department of
Conservation or the Conservation Commission. In
some States, parks are administered separately.
In others forests have independent administration.
Eight States have no State department of conser-
vation at all. On the other hand, Colorado has a
water Conservation Board, Kansas an Agricul-

tural Conservation Committee, New Mexico an .

Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, Texas, a
Railroad Commission supervising only oil and gas
production, 'and Utah a Water Storage Commis-
sion. California and Maryland speak of Depart-
ments of Natural Resources. Nevada’s conserva-
tion work is handled by the State Park Commis-
sion, Ohio’s by the Department of Agriculture and
South Dakota’s by a Department of School and
Public Lands. Four States have gone beyond the
usual scope of preservation, according to the titles
of their conservation agencies, with Departments

JUN; 1945‘

of Conservation and Development, a Planning and
Resource Board, and a State Planning Board.1

There are special articles on parks, forests, and
planning in this issue of RECREATION and some
developments under conservation commissions are
described in some detail in one of those articles.
There are, too, many developments in many States
that would be worthy of detailing here if informa—
tion about their projects were available as this
article is written. The conservation activities de—
scribed here are taken from reports in the files of
the National Recreation Association.

The Pennsylvania Game Commission informs
and educates the public through lectures by the
staff, distribution of movie films to schools through
the film library service, through displays and post-
ers, and through encouraging the development of
Sportsmen’s Clubs—of whch there are 800 in the

'State. There are also many junior sportsmen‘s

clubs which are called Conservation Clubs. Scores
of bulletins on“ nature and conservation topics are
given wide distribution in schools and generally
throughout the State. The Fish Commission con-
ducts a “School for Fishermen”, at which free in-
struction is given in fly casting. The site of the
school is known as “Fisherman’s Paradise,” and
people are permitted to fish there only five times a
year and then only with artificial flies and barbless
hooks. Only two trout may be kept.

There is a school forest movement in Wisconsin
which started about ten years ago with legislation
——secured with the help of the State Conservation
Department—making it possible for schools to
acquire tax-delinquent land for school forests.
Schools that acquired property were encouraged to
plant trees and to endeavor to develop a forest
area by good forestry practices. The areas are not
yet used' by science and nature groups, but there is
hope that as the areas become more and more at-
tractive and as the school nature programs improve
the forests will serve wider recreational and edu-
cational purposes.

There has been great rivalry among the schools
in Wisconsin. The towns of Merrill and Toma—
hawk have the two largest school forests in the
country, both over 500 acres. In the town of
Wausau the football team planted 25,000 trees in
their school forest. In 1945 young people in \Vis-
consin planted 1,031,723 trees.

The New York Department of Conservation

 

1 The Book of the States 1945-46. The Council of State Govern-
ments, 1945.

124 STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

has given encour-

agement t0 mu-

nicipal and com-;
munity forests.

T h e C o r n ell
U n i v e r s i t y
Rural School
Leaflet for March
1946 tells. school-
children about con-
servation in New
York- Starting out
with a letter from

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(A Page in the Missouri Nature Knights}

PLEDGES

—to Ieorn what is meont by conservation

and why conservotion laws ore necessary

—to help conserve wildlife, including birds,

onimols and fishes, trees and wild flowers
in Missouri ond elsewhere

—-to remember thot'wildlife belongs to

every one, and to follow the Golden Rule

agencies. Conser-
vation is fitted into
the programs of
all agencies con—
cerned with edu-
cation or recrea-
tion of young peo-
ple. Walt Disney
gave the Missouri
Conservation De-
partment a design
for the enrollment
card.

    

Game wardens
in New Jersey

a seventh grade
girl who wants to
know “all about

Courtesy Walt Disney

3 . ' a. , I ‘
. . Walt Disney's deSIgn for a Conservation owe 13035 and glrls
conservatlon 1n Pledge card for Wisconsin youngsters 1“ rural 317635 One‘

New York” for a ,

theme she is writing, the booklet goes on to give
all the details with many illustrations. The answer
to the letter
was prepar-
ed by the De—
partment of
C onserva-
tion and is
written out

day-old pheasants
or ruffed grouse to raise. A'few months later the
warden returns and buys back the mature birds at
$1.50 a head to stock State hunting areas.

The wild life conservation program in O'kla-
homa includes the development of farm. ponds.
First emphasis is on water for stock, but there is
also consideration of construction of the pond so
that fish can be introduced. The pond is located,
if possible, so that a picnic area can be set up near
it. By the use of dams, 40,000
such ponds have been created.
The Fish Department supplies
the fingerlings without cost. In
many cases these ponds have
provided a source_of income to
the farmer, since he can grant
fishing privileges to outsiders.

 

Planting fish —

in long hand——all twenty-eight
pages—-—to.make it “a little more
personal.”

The Rockwoods Reservation
for Nature Activities, a gift of
3,200 acres to the State of Mis-
souri, is to be used for the pre-
sentation of nature and conser-
vation practices to children and adults, individually or in groups.
There are two specialists in the area who not only act as guides
but also respond to outside calls for information and make talks
on nature subjects.

There are 40,000 “Missouri Nature Knights” in that State.
There is no attempt to develop a program apart from other

 

For good fishermen

 

Primitive hunting

RECREATION

l"
I

I

t Nebraska distinguishes between a State park
 and a State recreation area. Recreation areas are
.Il' purchased out of hunting and fishing license re-
.ceipts while State parks are purchased from- ap-
 propriated monies. Recreation areas are not
equipped with permanent facilities for camping but
just with such structures as will accommodate
hunters and fishermen.

The 150 game wardens of the Minnesota Divi-
sion of Fish and Game are available to schools
and clubs for lectures and for showing moving
pictures and slides on conservation and nature
education subjects.

Conservation Workshops have been held in a
number of States. This year, just in the States
east of the Mississippi, there are to be Conserva-
tion Workshops in twenty-one States under a
variety of auSpices. The Workshops are an attempt
to help teachers to give better instruction to boys
and girls so that they may be able to appreciate
what is meant by conservation—protecting, ex—
tending, and replacing our natural resources.

The suggestion was made in Ohio that that
State be made an “Estate” where all people might
enjoy recreation. “Without conservation we will
lose our industries, Without recreation we will
lose our ability to carry on industry. With a well—
rounded program of conservation, parks, and high-
way development we can enrich our lives and our
bank accounts.” The Conservation Division is
sponsoring living war memorials. Ohio also has a
Summer Conservation Laboratory financed by the
Conservation Division but sponsored jointly by
the Division, the Department of Education and
Ohio State University. The Division controls the
. State's first public recreation area on Lake Erie,

1,200 acres of beach, marshland, upland farmland
—' and woods.

I The Ohio Conservation Commission has an-
, nounced that three recreation lakes will be built
I this year. They are to be financed by general
revenue. Seven headwater lakes, for which fishing
license funds are earmarked, will be completed as
jsoon as manpower and materials problems will
permit.

The Division of Fish and Game in West Vir—
l ginia is actively_ interested in recreation program—
ming. A library of films and slides on birds,
flowers, insects, game, scenic views is maintained
. for lending to organizations and interested groups.

The Division cooperates in the sponsorship of an

annual Conservation Camp attended by 200 boys

and girls between the ages of hfteen and eighteen

 

 

0

JUNE 1946

l

t STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION 125

years. The object is to advance the wise use, in-
cluding recreation, of natural reSources. A com-
prehensive course of study units in conservation
has been prepared for the Department of Educa-
tion to be used in the public schools.

Kentucky’s 5F Junior Conservation Clubs furs,
fins, feathers, forests, fields) started in July last
year and at last report had a membership of 4,500
boys in seventy'clubs. A growing demand for clubs
for girls will probably result in their formation.
The Fish and Game Department recognizes the ‘
importance of having varied types of sponsoring
groups, Adult Conservation Clubs, a Sportsmen’s
Club, civic clubs, schools, recreation departments,
and others. The use of volunteers is emphasized,
and the Department not only provides specialists
but endeavors to have a volunteer specialist on
some subjects at each meeting of the clubs. There
are plans to spend $25,000 on this program in the
next two years. .

The Governor of Kentucky has established by
executive order a Division of Recreation in the
Conservation Department. A bill providing an
appr0priation of $18,000 for the Department was
passed by the 1946 Legislature. The Department
already includes Divisions of Forestry, State
Parks, and Soil and Water Resources.

There are about 900 conservation club organi—
zations in Indiana with a membership of more
than 130,000. About 500 of the clubs 'own prop-
erties valued at $600,000 which in many instances
are being developed for (local community recrea-
tion use. The Department of Conservation has
been asked to give advice regarding. the possibility
of a reservoir lake and other recreation facilities in
one county as a war memorial to boys from that
county.

Young people from each county who have at-
tended the conservation school in Illinois are be-
ginning to organize Junior Conservation Clubs.
Plans are to expand the school this. year so that
two from each county in the State can come in-
stead of only one. The most important phase of
the postwar program of the Illinois Department of
Conservation includes setting aside or developing
a lake in each county in the State, the primary
purpose of which is to provide a recreation area in
close proximity to the people for swimming, boat-
ing, hiking, picnicking, camping, and other kinds
of nature activities.

Boys and girls who attend the Illinois conser—
vation camp are selected by counties. Recommen-
dations of school principals and faculty are studied

126 STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

by county boards who give a written test on con-
servation to the boys and girls before selecting the
winner. Candidates are recommended on the basis
of leadership, service, scholarship, honor and
character. '

A boy and girl from each county attend the
State Conservation Camp in North Dakota each
year. The Eleventh Annual Camp was held last
year. The county representatives are selected on
the basis of ability as shown in conservation proj-
ects. Conservation camps are also held each year
in North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Ne-
braska, Iowa, Oklahoma, and other States.

In North Dakota efforts are being made to es-
tablish many small areas instead of providing a
few large refuges. A junior Warden movement is
being organized by the Fish and Game Depart-
ment. '

There is a recreation specialist on the staff of
the California Bureau of Reclamation. He helps
in the planning of reclamation projects so that rec-
reation can have a place for the total picture.

,The Wisconsin Fish and Game Division has
one or two conservation rangers in each county to
guide activities associated with nature. Popular
booklets on native Hora and fauna are prepared
for free distribution. An unusual service is ren-
dered by this Division. It pays farmers for any
damages done to fences, farms, or crops. by hunters
This makes for good farmer-hunter relations.

The Wisconsin Department of Conservation has
prepared a bulletin, “Programs and Projects for
junior Conservation Clubs,” for the use of such
clubs. Another interesting project has been the
stocking of many lakes and ponds in larger cities
for the exclusive fishing use of small boys who
love to fish. ‘

Both Wisconsin and Michigan have been leaders
in the development of bow hunting both as a con-
servation measure and as recreation. Beginning in
1934 with forty archers registered in Wisconsin
the number has grown steadily to a 2,000 aver-
age over the last five years. The number of deer
killed in this manner has increased from one the
first year to 146 in 1944, the last year for which
statistics are available. In Michigan, of the 260,000
deer hunters in 1945, 3,000 were bow hunters. A
number of other States are encouraging bow hunt—
ing both as recreation and as a conservation
measure.

The “Williamston Plan” of cooperative game
management has been successfully used in Michi-

neighboring farmers into conservation clubs.
Their land is posted as a unit and hunters are
admitted only by written permit. Each farmer is
permitted a definite number of hunting tickets, and
the tickets are given out to hunters who leave
their cars in the farmer’s yard while they are
hunting. The Game Division of the Department of
Conservation will help in the organization of the
clubs, but the club remains entirely in the hands
of the farmers. If the clubs comply with certain
simple regulations of the Department, the Depart-
ment will furnish signs for posting the land, co-
operate in law enforcement, and aid in formulating
game management plans for the area. In 1945,
168,592 acres were posted under the “Williamston
Plan,” though in the peak year, 1940, 512,949
acres were available to hunter guests.

Another State which has a somewhat similar
program is Nebraska. Game Management Areas
are posted by the Game Division where farmers
are willing to cooperate. Hunters are required to
ask the farmer before they start hunting, and in
that way the farmer can regulate the number of
hunters who use his property. The Division will
also help farmers make game sanctuaries of waste
land.

Iowa has a well-developed farm pond program.
To encourage farmers to build ponds the legisla—
ture at its last session authorized the Conservation
Commission to stock all farm ponds gratuitously
if the ponds were constructed according to certain
specified standards.

In providing maximum opportunities for out-
door recreation the Iowa Conservation Commis-
sion is convinced that the'recreation program must
be correlated with and become a part of a compre-
hensive land and water use plan that provides
equitable distribution of benefits to agriculture,
forestry, recreation, navigation, power develop—

ment, public health, water supplies, and all other
interests.

State Universities Have
State-Wide Campuses-

OLLEGES AN'D UNIVERSITIES have provided in fl“
C varying degrees for the recreation of their
students. The University of Wisconsin has proba-
bly been outstanding in this regard through the
magnificent recreation program that is available at

 

gan since 1929. The plan involves organization of the Wisconsin Union. {

RECREATION

 

But this article is not Concerned with what col—
leges and universities are doing for their own stu-
dents. It is interested in what the State universi-
ties, as agencies of the State governments, are
doing for the recreation of all the people of the
State. (The question of rural extension services is
the subject of a separate article.)

There is no one pattern evident in the services
which State universities are giving in this field.
\Nhy certain developments have occurred and not
others is seldom clear. The important fact is that
there have been developments extending the facili—
ties and services of the universities beyond the
limits of the campus and the formal student body.

Since this issue of RECREATION is about the
States, there is no mention in this article of the
activities of the private colleges and universities,
which also play an important role.

The work of the music department at Purdue
University, Indiana, is even more significant off the
campus than it is on the campus. Women’s

choruses have been organized in eighty-five of the .'

ninety-two counties of the State, and the member-
ship in these choriuses totals more than 3,000. Each
chorus has its own volunteer director, and the di-
rectors are brought together periodically by Albert
Stewart, the University’s music director, for addi-
tional training.
The choruses are
organized for in-
dividual training
and musical ex-
pression, but they
also give musi-
cal assistance in
community en-
t e r p r i s e 8.
Through Mr.
Stewart’s efforts,
the Rotary Clubs
of Indiana are
sponsoring train-
ing classes for
community song
leaders, choir
masters, and
leaders of sing-
ing in organiza-
tions. This is a
continuing pro-
gram with classes
held in different
sections of the a

JUNE 1946

 

STA TE .1 GENCI ES AND RE UREA T1 ON 127

State under Mr. Stewart: direction. The Uni-
versity of Indiana is planning to cooperate in the
establishment of a community recreation depart-
ment in Bloomington. The CniVersity is to par-
ticipate financially in the program so that there
will be assurance that a well-qualified superin-
tendent of recreation will be employed. The super-
intendent will work with the University and will use
university students as leaders in some of his pro-
gram activities. A person has already been em-
ployed by the University to give full—time, state-
wide service in recreation. ‘

Pennsylvania State College assisted, though not
financially, in the establishment of a community
recreation program in the town of State College
which will cooperate with the College by affording
opportunity for students to take part in the lead-
ership of community recreation activities. Several
members of the staff of the School of Physical
Education including the Dean himself frequently
do- extension teaching through coaching clinics,
teaching classes in folk dancing or fly tying. The
College has plans for the employment of a person
to give recreation field service. '

Arts and crafts in Tennessee

l

Courtesy Tennessee Conscmatim: C'mnmwsion

128

A series of non-credit extension hobby courses
is available from Louisiana State University and
includes such subjects as music appreciation. crea-
tive writing, astronomy, general woodworking,
ceramics, and horticulture. In the Bureau of Dra-
matic Activities of the General ExtensiOn Division
there is a dramatic library of 4,000 plays and many
volumes on dramatic techniques which "are avail-
able on loan to community and school groups.
There are plans for the employment eventually of
a field organizer and supervisor of dramatic ac-
tivities.

Under the same General Extension Division
there is also a Bureau of ,French Folk Activities.
The purpose of the program of this lureau is to
preserve the lan—'
guage, culture, and
traditional folklore
of the French-speak-
ing people who set-
tled Louisiana. In
many sections of the
State there are peo-'
ple who speak
French instead of
English. About 125
traditional French
songs, games, sto—
ries, and dances
have been discov-
ered ‘and preserved,
and many of the
programs in the
rural sections and
in towns have been
built around these folk interests. Since these peo—
ple rarely came together for activities, the pro-
gram started out 'by assembling the people to
listen to broadcasts of the songs and music with a
'period for games, dances and similar activities fol—
lowing the broadcasts. Gradually the interest
broadened to include organization of French clubs,
and since 1942 the handcrafts of the Acadians
have been emphasized.

The Bureau of Community Planning operates
as a department of the College of Fine and Applied
Arts of the University of Illinois. Its purpose is
to stimulate interest in community planning, to
carry on research in this field, and to make back—
ground surveys (but not master plans) pertinent
to intelligent planning of communities in Illinois.
The Bureau offers consulting service on planning
procedure. The Bureau has had official relation-

 

Music camp at Rhode Island State College

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

ships with about I 50 communities on planning.

park, recreation, and similar services. '

A member of the staff of the Department of
Physical Education at Massachusetts State Col—
lege has given valuable service to communities
throughout the State by giving information on the
construction, cost, and maintenance of swimming
pools. The College, largely through the work of
another member of the Department’s staff, has
given outstanding services in the field of winter
sports. In the field of nature education Massa-
chusetts State College is also preeminent. Dr.
\Villiam G. \"inal (Cap’n Bill) extends his influ-
ence far beyond the campus of the College.

The Professor of Dramatics at Rutgers Uni:
versity has an inter-
esting service avail-
able to any person
in New Jersey. He
lists the four best
plays on Broadway
and for a small ser-
vice charge, plus the
cost of the tickets.
will furnish anyone
in the State with
tickets to all four.
This service is
greatly appreciated.

Any discussion of
university drama
extending outside
the confines of the
campus must, at
least, mention
Alfred Arvold of Little Country Theater fame at
North Dakota Agricultural College and the late
Frederick Koch of the Dakota Playmakers at the
University of North Dakota and later of the Caro-
lina Playmakers at the University of North Caro-
lina. These pioneers have for more than thirty

years been making drama an important part of the

lives of people in the States where they have been
active. '

There is a Bureau of School and Community
Drama in the Extension Division of the Univer—
sity of Virginia. Most of the Bureau’s time is
taken with selection of suitable plays for drama
groups and in publishing the Virginia Drama.
News. Some field service, however, is given now
and it is hoped that soon this will be expanded. '

The Extension Division of the University of
South Dakota has a Play Loan Library Service

RECREATION

\

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION 13‘.)

 



' ‘ -- O
- y .i I. .,
~_.' 8... '
F " . an..- .
. 1‘? r “at, -.

"M if": M m

Courtesy Purdue University

Home economics chorus in Indiana

supplying schools, clubs, and many kinds of groups
with plays for production.

The Curator of the University of South Dakota
Museum publishes a monthly Museum N ews, and
for a nominal charge the Museum will send a col—
lection of twenty-two common rocks of the State,

each properly labeled, so that South Dakotans can I

study and learn the names of rocks‘ found near
at hand. '
A High School Music Camp is conducted each
summer on the campus of Rhode Island State Col—
lege. This summer’s camp will stress American
music. The Division of Music also offers a service
to church choirs, requested by ministers in the
State. The service consists of an opportunity for
choirs to sing and hear their efforts criticised.. Re-
search by the Division in music lore and folk tunes

of the State has brought to light I72 different,

folk tunes.

The work of the School of Community Service
of the University of Tennessee has resulted in the
organization .of the Association of N on-Profes-
sional Theaters in the State to help advance drama

from a civic and recreation standpoint. About ‘

200 groups are interested. There is also a library
service which lends books on all subjects to indi-
viduals or groups throughout the State. A film
service provides official government films and some
others that the University has bought. The only
charge is for shipping. Several publications have

JUNE 1946

,

been prepared concerning recreation—Recreation
Handbook for Group Leaders; Manual of Adult
Recreation, Games and Sports for School, H ome
and Community; The Smoky lliountains and the-
Plant Naturalist.

Michigan State College has had three members
of the music staff in the field for several years.
Plans are being made to bring the number up
to six.

Professor Edgar B. Gordon of the School of
Music of the University of Wisconsin enrolled about
50,000 children in his radio music program. Pro-
fessor Gordon has retired but he is retained on
the staff of the University without any classroom
teaching responsibilities so that he can devote all
of his time to community music and to his radio
program, Journeys to A! usic Land.

Two faculty members of the College of Letters
and Arts at Wisconsin have no teaching responsi-
bilities but spend their time stimulating interest in
general'science and_ music respectively throughout
the State: Another faculty member is doing ex-
cellent work in communities with little theater and
other dramatic activities.

-F or several years the School of Landscape
Architecture at Ohio State University has pro-
moted an annual Short Course in Highway De-
ve10pment, particularly from the standpoint of
parks, recreation, and other aesthetic aspects.

The School of Social Administration at Ohio

O

130 STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

State has a staff member with no teaching respon-
sibilities. He gives service to communities and
has helped several localities conduct local surveys.

The University of Delaware has adopted the
principle of field service as a contribution to the
development of community recreation. This pro-
gram is being advanced on a very practical basis
through arts, crafts, dramatics and music. A more
complete story of the work of the Dramatic Arts
Department will be found elsewhere in this issue
of RECREATION. Traveling libraries are sponsored
by the University Library.

The University of Minnesota General Extension
Division offers a correspondence study course in
art metal work which in addition to the written
text for each of the lessons has a series of photo-
graphs giving details in pictures of the steps to be
taken in completing each project.

The University of Minnesota’s Department of
Concerts and Lectures through its Community
Program Service offers an unusual service to com-
munity organizations and schools which are look-
ing for education and recreation programs for an
evening or for a school assembly period.

The University of Kentutky Department of
University Extension has a Bureau of Club and
COmmunity Service with a field worker who gives
a good deal of her time to helping with the or-
ganization and programs of women’s groups. This
worker is also a member of the State Recreation
Committee. .

The University of Nebraska offers a number of
services which have deep influence on the recrea-
tion of the people of that State. The Small Com-
munity Development Program tries to help small
towns, not rural communities which frequently
have had the benefits of help from Agricultural
Extension workers. One emphasis in this program

is an effective program of community recreation. .

The University has published a booklet, Commu-
nity Schools for Nebraska, prepared by the Ex-
tension Division. One chapter is devoted to rec—
reation.

Dr. M. A. Stoneman of the Extension Division
is called on frequently to assist in surveys of local
educational programs. His particular specialty is
adequacy of buildings and grounds for a complete
program. Since there is no supervisor of educa-
tional plants in the office of the Superintendent of
Public Instruction he is called on by the Superin-
tendent to give advice on planning and construc-
tion of new buildings. He has been very success-
ful in encouraging communities to provide the

facilities which help make school buildings com-
munity centers.

Music festivals instead of State music tourna-
ments are sponsored by the Department of Music
at Nebraska. The members of the staff of the De-
partment emphasize in their work away from the
campus music for all and not just for the few who
can qualify for tournaments. A member of the
staff has conducted more than a dozen chorus fes-
tivals during this last school year. Music con-
tests are practically nonexistent in the State.

During June this year the seventh “All High
School Summer Course” is being held at the Uni-
versity. It is attended each year by I 50 carefully

- selected music students in the high schools of Ne-

braska. Interest in this course .is so keen, and it
has had such an effect on music in Nebraska, that
this year the Department of Speech and Dramatic
Arts selected fifty students for special training in
radio, debate and dramatics. The 200 boys and
girls live’in fraternity and sorority houses, publish
three newspapers, have a parade through Lincoln
with their own marching band, and close the three-
week session with a banquet at which keepsakes
are given to all as reminders of a memorable oc-.
casion. Last year’s keepsake was a list of the
names and addresses of all the students and
faculty members.

The All-State High School Music Festival is in
its fifteenth year at the University of Iowa. The
program is generally similar to the program for
Nebraska which has already been described. In
Iowa the festival lasts for six weeks instead of the
three-week course in Nebraska.

The University of Nebraska has also become a
center for much of the progressive art program in
the State. A Special donation provides about
$4,000 annually for the purchase of works of art.
Pictures from the University collection are avail—
able for loan throughout the State. Exhibitions
are held in town auditoriums, churches, schools,
and at county fairs. Nebraskans attend exhibi-
tions in good numbers, are eager to keep informed
about what is going on in art, and are rapidly
developing the habit of buying art objects for their
homes.

The University of North Carolina has a large
part in the recreation services of the State to the
people of North Carolina. In its Extension Di-
vision are Bureaus of Recreation and of Commu-
nity Drama. The'Bureau of Recreation was estab-
lished about eight years ago to help advance the
public recreation movement in the State. The ser-

RECREATION

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION 131

vices of the head of this Bureau are now being
made available by the University to the new North
Carolina Recreation Commission which is de-
scribed elsewhere in this issue. The Bureau of
Community Drama is assisted by the Carolina
Dramatic Association and by the Carolina Play-
makers in furthering the recreation needs of the
people through drama.

The Institute of Government conducted this
spring an institute for public recreation officials in
North Carolina city, county, and State depart-
ments. The Institute considered the legal aspects
of recreation, finance problems, administration,
leadership, areas and facilities, and activities.

Forests
for the People

TATE FORESTS are generally more extensive in
S area and less intensively developed than State
parks. State parks are as a rule primarily de—
voted to recreation use. State forests, however,
allow managed use of commercial timber, forage,
water, and mineral resources with recreation nec-
essarily just another of these multiple uses. Indi-

 

IUNE 1946

vidual uses such as recreation are given exclusive
place on limited areas. It is important to note that
recreation is not the principal reason for the exist-
ence of public forests as it usually is for public
parks. .

State forests receive less attention as places of
recreation than State parks, but almost universally
the States have opened their forests to the public
for nature and similar recreation activities. Ap-
proximately 28,000,000 persons visited these State
forests in the last year for which figures are avail-

” able, and it seems likely 'that still heavier loads of

forest visitors will come as time goes on.

State forests now comprise some 9,302,000 acres
in thirty-seven States according to the 1945 Report
of the Chief of the U. S. Forest Service. This
means an (area’about twice the size of New Jer-
sey. Other State-owned forest lands aggregate
10,124,000 acres. In addition almost a million
acres of Federal—owned lands are under long-time
lease to the States for management.‘ In all there
are some 6,700 State forest units. The State for—
ests do not include all the acreage in game preserves

Surveyors-to-be s’rar’r young

Courtesy Wisconsin Conservation Department

132 STATE AGENCIES AND' RECREATION

and forest parks. New York, for instance, has
2,404,000 acres in two State forest parks that are
held in their natural state primarily for recrea-
tion use.

There are over 185 free camp site areas in Maine
developed by the Department of Forestry of that
State. These sites are near highways so that peo-
ple can lunch, build cooking fires, and have good
water. Most of the areas also have space where
tents may be pitched for overnight camping.

In New Hampshire there are now’two depart-'-
ments under the State Forestry and Recreation
Commission. They are a Department of Recrea—
tion and a Department of Forestry, and their de-
velopment emphasizes the recognition given by
New Hampshire to recreation. The Director of
Recreation has broad authority over all the State
public areas which have significance for recreation,
and he may recommend acquisition of certain lands
for recreation purposes.

The public forest program in Indiana, which now
includes only 150,000 acres in State, national and
county forests, is to be expanded to 1,000,000 acres.
This will involve the addition of ten State forests.

In many States the Forestry Departments are
assisting in the promotion of community, county.
and school forests. In Texas, for instance, the
Forest Service has been active in helping to de—
velop community forests. Recently the Service
helped a community of 12,000 to establish a 900-
acre forest, at the dedication of which there was
' much favorable editorial comment in the State as
to the value of such areas devoted to forestry and

recreation purposes. Immediately after this dedi-
cation an individual asked for

5,000 trees which he wished to
give to another community. Trees
are sold by the Forest Service in
Texas for such purposes at about
one cent a sapling.

The latest report of the U. S.
Forest Service states that there
are 2,278 communities in the
United States that have forests
with a total of 3,000,000 acres.
These local forests have the same
values as the larger State forests
with the advantage that they are
nearer the homes of the people.

Two State forest overnight
areas within forty miles of Mil—
waukee are. open to groups which
fill out applications with the M il-

waukee Department of Municipal Recreation and
Adult Education. Permits are written to be pre—
sented to the forester of the area on arrival. After
the group leaves the forester reports to the recrea—

tion authorities as to activities that were engaged

in and the conduct of the camp.
The kinds of recreation that are most apt to be

provided in State forests—as in forests generally— A

are the wilderness kinds—hunting, fishing, camp—
ing, hiking. Forests are not yet primarily recrea—
tion areas and recreation programs are not gener—
ally conducted on forest areas. The tremendous
numbers of people who visit the forest for recrea-
tion, however, are forcing forest administrators to
consider more and more seriously what should,be
done. “The influx of visitors has taxed the in-
genuity of State forestry organizations, most Of
which are small. But most State foresters have
met the challenge to the limit of their resources
and plan a continued expansion.” 1

Recreational use of forest areas and facilities is
now considered second only to forest management,
and on many areas it actually ranks first. Forest
recreation is now recognized as a function requir—
ing supervision by specially trained persons.

 

1 Forest Outings, U. S. Forest Service, 1940.

H

"Concrete Recreation

IGHWAYS' are not always thought of as recrea—
I | tion facilities, nor highway departments as rec-
reation agencies. But when the American Automo-

Roadside park

 

Courtesy Ohio Department of Highways

RECREATION

 

\i

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION 1.5.3

bile Association
estimates that
60,000,000 vaca-
tioning m0torists
will travel the
r o a d s o f -t h e
United States in
1946 some of the '
implications of
highways for rec-
reation become
evident. There
have been esti-
mates that as high
as 50 percent of
the use of high—
ways is for recrea-
tion purposes, and
not all highways
are planned so
that they traverse
the shortest possi—
ble distance be-
tween two indus—
trial centers. Many
a highway is set
intentionally
against a scenic
background.

The Virginia
General Assembly
at its recent 'ses—
sion empowered
the State High-
way Department
to .construct and
maintain “walk-
ways” alongside
any highway or
road under its ur—
isdiction, to be financed out of general highway
funds. In the early 1930’s there was considerable
activity along these lines, and at that time 'Massa-
chusetts, Pennsylvania, New York, and New Jer—
sey had laws permitting the construction of facili-
ties for walkers and bicyclists. In later years, until
this action in Virginia, this activity has been less.
Perhaps the time is not far off when even pedes—
trians can enjoy the highways!

The specihc illustrations of current developments
in recreation activities of State highway depart-

lUNE 1946

 

Ii

0

Courtesy Wyoming State Highway Department

"Many a highway is set against a scenic background"

ments which follow are not the whole story by
any means. They do illustrate what is being done

in some of the States.

Ohio’s roadside park development is outstanding
in the nation. There are 300 active roadside parks
in the State at the present time and as many more
are planned for future deve10p1nent. Signihcant
features of every one of these roadside parks are:

I34 STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

Parking spaces off the road. These parking spaces
for one thing will permit drivers to rest in the midst
of long drives and will tend to prevent accidents from

weariness and sleepiness while driving.
Well shelters with pure analyzed water for drinking.
Tables and benches for picnicking.
Outdoor ovens, fireplaces, and wood fuel.

Year-round maintenance.

Ohio Garden Clubs have persuaded many com-
munities and private owners to give roadside park
sites to the Department of Highways for develop-
ment as war memorials. When suitable areas are
not available as gifts the Ohio Garden Clubs pur-
chase them and turn them over to the Department
for development. The Ohio Garden Clubs have
been instrumental in securing over thirty sites for
roadside park war memorials.

Plans in Ohio call for a roadside park every
thirty to forty miles on principal highways through
the State. These areas are used increasingly by
rural families as gathering places. The Depart-
ment of Highways also cooperates with the Di—
vision of Conservation in Ohio in damming streams
to provide places near bridges 'where people can
fish. This cooperative service has been authorized
by passage of the so-called “Ohio Bridge Dam
Law.”

In Indiana the use of State highways decreased
an estimated 50 percent during 1943 as compared
with 1941, but the use of roadside parks decreased
only 22 percent. Altogether, 280,000 people stop-
ped to rest and relax in these park's during that
year. Most users stopped for a picnic meal, but on
several occasions a roadside park was used for an
all-day family reunion or club meeting.

The State Highway Commission in Connecticut
has a Bureau of Roadside Development which
maintains I 50 picnic or wayside areas, all of which
are appropriately named. An additional service of
this Bureau is that it has a corps of landscape
architects, tree surgeons, and technicians available
to local recreation departments at any time they
maybe needed.

The State of Pennsylvania appropriated $150,000
last year for the construction and maintenance of
roadside parks adjacent to State highway routes.

The State Highway Department occupies an
unusual place with respect to recreation in Dela-
ware. One of the finest stretches of seashore,
twenty miles long and owned by the State, is under
the jurisdiction of the Highway Department. It
has provided only such structures on this beach as

" some of them are told here in brief;

will enable the people to get a maximum benefit
from this outstanding recreation resource.

There are about 125 wayside areas in Wiscon-
sin which have,been built by the Highway Com-
mission in cooperation with' the Department of
Conservation. The Department of Conservation
has jurisdiction over another five State roadside
parks. The Highway Commission constructs all
roads to and through the State parks, State for-
ests, and other State recreation areas and cooper-
ates in clearing excess snow from winter sports
areas. South Carolina is another State where the
Highway Department cooperates with the Divi-.
sion of State Parks by constructing and maintain—
ing park roads.

In Wisconsin the Highway Commission is defi-
nitely committed to a policy of cooperation with
the Department of Conservation in its park, for-
estry, and recreation ‘program. The Commission
has set aside a definite fund for the building and
upkeep of access roads to parks and within parks.
The Highway Commission considers itself a factor
in the total recreation program for the people of
the State of Wisconsin. '

Libraries Go to the People

EADING IS CERTAINLY one of the commonest
R recreation activities, so common in'fact that
its importance is frequently overlooked. It only
requires a book in the way of facilities. But some-
times even getting a book is a problem. In cities,

public and private libraries and bookstores are a _

source of almost endless possibilities for the per-
son who wants to read. . In smaller communities
the possibilities for securing good material dimin—
ish as the libraries and bookstores get smaller and
fewer until they reach the vanishing point.

State libraries in many States have endeavored
to assist individual readers as well as smaller li-
braries in getting and providing for others desir-
able books. But providing books is not the only
service which State libraries can give to people.
The ways of helping are many, and examples of

The New Hampshire State Library performs a
number of services for the recreation of- people of
that State. It sends two bookmobiles packed with
700 or more books to all counties in the State
(except two which have excellent local libraries) ‘
to visit schools and other agencies and to bolster

RECREATION

 

\

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION . 135

up the small community libraries. It provides
individual mail service to the people in isolated
communities without local libraries. It prepares
bibliographies on request for people who have
lectures to make or articles to write. It has
available bibliographies for the following hob-
bies: metal work and jewelry, principles of
design, furniture making, needlework, color,
pottery, weaving, gardening, and hobbies gen—
erally. The State Library also sends out travel-
ing arts and crafts exhibits and issues reading
lists of books for winter reading on any subject ‘

requested.
In addition to its reference library service for

members .of the State Legislature, the Wisconsin
Free Library Commission has an extension pro-
gram to communities and individuals throughout
the State. This service takes the form of helping to
establish local libraries, planning local club pro-
grams, and supplying books for recreation reading
to all age groups. Locally, this kind of service is
leading to such activities as hobby forums, round—
table discussions, film forums, book review groups
for adults and radio program forums.

The Maine State Library sends traveling libra-
ries not only to local libraries, schools, and social
.agencies but to boys’ and girls’ camps all over the
State. The service is free except for a transporta-
tion charge. The libraries, twenty-five-book or
fifty-book, are lent for six months. There are spe-
cial children’s libraries of twenty—five books con—
‘ taining the best standard and illustrated children’s
books. The nature libraries are especially suited
for summer camps. A well-planned case keeps the
books from damage while in transit. The Library

A traveling library in Maine

: a I l
1!: gig, I
QM a!

HR Va
skt'trtl

Courtesy Maine State Library

lUNE 1946

 

 

,.
’—

Courtesy New Hampshire State Library

Bookmobiles bring books to rural areas

- also sends hobby materials interesting to both

sexes and to all ages. They also send to various
local libraries art collections of reproductions of
famous paintings. .

The North Dakota State Library Commission
also provides twenty-five- and fifty-book traveling
libraries. An additional service is the Club Pro-
gram Service which assists groups to form clubs
and arrange their programs. There is even a “Book
a Month” service through which readers can receive
each month a different book dealing with a par-
ticular subject or interest.

The Public Library Commission 9f New Jersey
carries on by mail a consultation service. People
write from all over the State asking for books and
information on all kinds of t0pics. At least 5 per-
cent of all the questions deal with peOple’s recrea—
tion or their hobbies.

The Illinois State Library offers a local loan
service, particularly of expensive books which

smaller libraries seldom can afford. It also
provides art materials, pictures and slides to
libraries, schools, and individuals, prepares
bibliographies, and assists citizens in the for-
mation of lay organizations such as Friends
of the Public Library. '

There is one bookmobile in Nebraska. It
was a gift to the Nebraska Library Commission
and it is used to promote county bookmobiles
instead of trying to cover the entire State
itself. The Commission also indexes twenty—
eight of the largest public and college libraries
in the State so that readers can know where
in the State a particular publication can be
found. Inter-library loan procedures make the
books available throughout the State.

136 STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION

Educational Authorities

ANY PHASES of the public school program,
M within and outside the curriculum, contribute
to the deve10pment of recreation skills and the
fuller appreciation of leisure time. Physical educa—
tion and intramural programs provide a basis for
lifelong sports enjoyment. Arts, crafts, music,

drama, social recreation, and many other activities ‘

have-a place somewhere in most school programs
and play an important part in the early develop-
ment of interests that last a lifetime—not because
they become vocations in many instances, but be—
cause they become favorite recreation interests.
Club programs, whether in language clubs, science
clubs; music clubs, stamp clubs, or just clubs, also

provide opportunities for boys and girls to do

what they really want to do.

Wherever boys and girls are they constantly
search for things they like to do. So much of life
for young people is spent in and around the schools
and so much of the full enjOyment of leisure time
really depends on education that the part the
schools have in recreation is tremendously im-
portant.

Education has always been a responsibility of
the States in the United States. State laws now
rather generally permit local school authorities to
provide or to cooperate in providing public recrea-
tion programs in commu-
nites. State education
authorities have given._
varying degrees of lead—
ership and assistance in
the recreation programs
and plans of the schools.
In some States there has
been help for local schools
in the planning of school
buildings for community
use. In others there has
been financial assistance ‘
for recreation programs-
administered by local
school boards: Some spe-
cific services are de-
scribed in the material
that follows.

The sum of $250,000
was provided by the 1945
Washington State Legis-
lature for State aid to

local recreation programs administered by local
school boards. The law authorizes local school
boards to expend their own funds on recreation
for children, though not for adults. State aid funds,
hOWever, may be used for recreation programs for
adults. Most of the recreation programspaid for
from the State fund are conducted during the
summer months. Activities include playgrounds,
swimming, and in some instances camping and
cruising. Payments to local schools are limited to
reimbursements for salary expenditures up to a
maximum of $200 per month. Salaries of leaders
may, of course, exceed this figure, but that is the
maximum amount reimbursable. Equipment and
supplies must be provided at local expense.

The State Department of Education in Cali-
fornia employs a person on a'full-time basis to
give recreation service to local education depart-
ments. I

The School Plant Bureau of the Pennsylvania
Department- of Public Instruction is doing ex-
cellent work in seeing to it that all new school
plants have proper facilities for sports and outdoor
recreation and laboratories for arts, crafts, manual
training, and other activities. This Bureau refuses

Many State universities are re-
positories for films and slides

 

Courtesy Columbus, Ohio, Department of Education

RECREATION

 

STATE AGENCIES AND RECREATION 137

to approve plans for new school plants if adequate
play Space, gymnasium space, and other features
are not provided. .

All plans for new school buildings in the State
of Minnesota must be approved by the Director of
Buildings and Administration of the Department
of Education. The present director, I. O. Fris-
' wold, has been most successful in giving consul—
tant service on plans before they get to the final
stage. Working on a service rather than a regu—
latory basis, Mr. Friswold has had great success in
getting local schools opened for recreation activi—
ties for adults as well as children.

In Connecticut the Division of School Buildings
and Plans of the Department of Education ap—
proves all new school plants and assists school
communities in layout of plans for schOol buildings
and playgrounds for community use. High schools
are zoned for community use. All State teachers
colleges are to give some training in recreation.
One of thirteen trade schools has been made into a
State crafts instruction center. The school accepts
students from nearby communities interested in
recreation crafts. The State Department of Edu-
cation has subsidized recreation directOrs in some
Connecticut communities through adult education
funds. '

There are over 1,100 certified arts and crafts
teachers in Pennsylvania, and even this number is
not adequate for the interest that there is in that
State in arts and crafts. The Chief of Art Edu-
cation of the Department of Public Instruction,
who is responsible for the foregoing statements,
has also' reported.that the Board of'Education in
Pittsburgh would not consider building anew
school there without providing at least one room
for instruction in arts and crafts.

A new program got under way recently in
Michigan with the appointment of a director of a
project for health, physical education, and recrea—
tion. It is the hope of the Department of Public
Instruction that the new project will develop and
improve educational practices in these fields.
Among the possibilities and services of the proj-
ect are providing consultative services to the
schools, working with school administrators, teach-
ers, and professional organizations to expand exist-
ing services and to stimulate the activities of
others, studying needs and resources, helping
schools evaluate present practices, studying possi—
bilities of in-service training of teachers in these
fields, assisting schools in developing facilities for
physical activities, recreation and camping.

lUNE 1946

The Supervisor of Health, Physical Education
and Recreation of the Minnesota Department of
Education concentrated his efforts one year re—
cently on the development of summer playground
activities. He had reports from 160 small com-
munities where such programs were conducted
that summer.

By an act of the legislature all historic sites
formerly administered 'by the 'Division of Parks
and the Divisions of Lands and Forests have been
transferred to the New York Department of Edu—
cation for administration. Only two areas are not
included in this transfer.

The Ohio Department of Education has the
largest and best slide and film exchange in the
world. It makes moving picture films and slide
films and plates available to all the schools of
Ohio and to other educational groups. Approxi—

.mately 3,000 different moving picture films and

9,000 different slide films and plates are available
with scores, and in some cases hundreds, of dupli-
cate copies for mass bookings.

The films and slides depict a great many recre—
ation activities, such as natural history and con—
servation education topics including birds, trees,
plants, fauna, marine life, insects and others; ath-
letic sports, such as archery, gymnastics, mountain
climbing, swimming, life saving, canoeing, hunting,
fishing; crafts of all sorts; art, both paintings and
sculpture; and music with sound recordings to
accompany the pictures. '

The State Department of Public Instruction in
Pennsylvania has excellent permissive legislation
providing for a wide range and variety of recrea—
tion services in connection with its extension edu-
cation. “Any instructional, recreational or social
service at any educational level may be organized
and maintained by any board of school directors
as free public adult education. . . . Whenever fif-
teen or more residents of a school district, above
the age of sixteen years and not in full-time attend-
ance at any public or private day school, make
written application for any type of educational,
recreational, or social service maintained in the
day schools of their district . . . such service shall
be provided as free public education. . . .” As in
Washington, Pennsylvania is giving State aid to
local educatiOn authorities who conduct recreation
programs as part of their extension education ac-
tivities for out-of-school youth and adults.

The Young Citizens’ League in the South Da—
kota grade schools has a program aimed primarily

(Continued on page 162)

\

B. Williams and I have served

forty different States. Now
that we have visited so many of the States and
talked to so many of the State leaders reSponsible
for the programs of the State agencies, it may be
helpful and pertinent to stop and take a look at
what we have found.

Service of State agencies in the recreation field
is not a new development by any means, but in
recent years there has been a significant increase
in the interest and activity of the States along rec-
reation lines. Naturally the strength of the recrea-
tion offerings of different State agencies, and of
different States, varies from State to State. But
one cannot help but be impressed with all the pos—
sibilities for recreation that have been made avail-
able to the people by their State governments.
Whether State agencies offer recreation activities
‘ under their own auspices or give help to local
groups so that the quantity and quality of recrea-
tion services can be improved, they are contribut-
ing heavily to making possible a more abundant
life for all. '

State park departments are saying—and mean-
ing it—that recreation is their major and often
their only function. They are accepting their re-
sponsibilities for recreation by employing State
recreation directors, area
recreation directors, recrea-

I N THE LAST three years, James

By HARLAN G. METCALF
National Recreation Association

. ' Overview

other. State forests provide fa-
cilities for hunting, hiking, fish-
ing, camping,, nature trails, ski
trails, photography and many other outdoor rec-
reations. °

State departments of conservation are more and
more giving basic emphasis, not to law enforce—
ment and protection, but to education and conser-
vation for recreation. Many of these departments
either by themselves or through some special di-
vision of their over-all conservation organizations
are doing at "present the most effective and exten-
sive nature and conservation education of all the
State agencies—including those of education or
public instruction. Their educational programs
include senior and junior conservation clubs,
moving pictures, radio programs, traveling ex-
hibits, speakers, books, pamphlets. As part of this
program they 'make available their game and fish
refuges for hiking, picnics, sketching, photography,
and other activities. " These departments are bring—
ing back fish and game for the enjoyment of
sportsmen and naturalists. ,

State planning boards or commissions now con-
sider planning for recreation of equal importance
with planning in other areas. These boards and
commissions assist local communities in recreation
planning and in setting up district or local planning
' authorities. They often act
as a clearing house for

tion planners, park natural-
ists and others who can help
people enjoy to the full the
hours .that they can spend
in the State parks. State
park departments are also
making their staff and ser-
vices available to other State
agencies and to the com—
‘munities in the State.

State forestry departments
are ranking their recréation
function second only to‘ for-
est management and pro—
tection. In some State for-
estry departments the rec—
reation function is held to
be at least equal to any

138

For many years through its District Rep-
resentativesI through the National Physical
Education ServiceI through the Rural Rec-
reation Service. through correspondence
and in other ways, the National Recreation
Association has been serving State govern-

ments. Three years ago a special field ser-
vice to State government agencies was set

up. and James B. Williams has been visiting
State government agencies ever since.
About nine months ago H. G. Metcalf
joined the staff of the Association to give
similar service. '

Mr. Williams and Mr. Metcalf have
studied in each of the States they have
visited. the recreation services of the State
agencies and they have given consultation
service as they have been requested to
give it. This summary by Mr. Metcalf

tells briefly some of the services they have
found in those States.

State agencies with recrea—
tion services and occasion-
ally assist in establishing a
State recreation system.
State departments of edu-
cation give basic and con-
tinuous opportunities for in—
struction in fundamental
skills in such recreation ac-
tivities as arts, crafts, Sports
and physical education,
music, drama, and others.
Early school instruction is
basic for increasing enjoy-
ment of all these activities
throughout life. These de-
partments operate state—
wide film and slide ex-

RECREATION

 

OVERVIEW , _ f 139

 

Courtesy Missouri Conservation C ommtsn'on

Izaak Waltons in the making

changes featuring films and slides with many rec-
reation subjects. Through field workers and finan-
cial aid some educational authorities have assisted

local school departments with recreation programs.

State libraries provide recreational reading and
books on recreation and hobby subjects through
local libraries, traveling libraries, and special mail
services: In this way State libraries reach people
wherever they are, in schools, churches, camps,
clubs, or homes.

Contributions of State highway departments to
the recreation of the people include:

Beautifying roadsides

Constructing highways so that the aesthetic apprecia-
tion of scenery values are at a maximum

Building roadside parks which not only become oases
for tourists, bikers, and hikers :but recreation centers
for rural family outings

Assisting communities in building nearby community
parks

Providing access to recreation areas administered by
other State agencies.

JUNE 1946

State educational institutions recognize more
and more their responsibility for field service to
the whole State as well as their reSponsibility for
instruction of their students and for research.
More and more they are coming to consider the
whole State as their campus. They provide con-
sultation services in recreationrto communities of
the State. Through the general extension services
of the universities certain recreation interests such
as music, _drama, and nature education are being
promoted.

In the State colleges of agriculture there are
recreation specialists and club workers working
through the agricultural extension service with
people in the rural areas.

Although there is need on every hand for in-
creased budgets and personnel, it is evident that
State government agencies are making many con-
tributions to recreation in their respective States
and that they are very anxious to expand their
services in this area.

Tennessee Blazes a New‘Trail

HE STATE OF TENNESSEE
Tin cooperation with the

camping groups of the
State has embarked on an un- .
usual leadership training venture. Last summer
for two weeks about seventy-five camp directors,
counselors, and instructors met at Fall Creek Falls
State Park to consider ways and means of im-
proving camp programs and to receive instruction
in the various techniques of camping. The'Division
of State Parks of the Conservation Department
provided the facilities and in cooperation with
camping groups helped to organize and finance
the project.

The background of this training effort is sig-
nificant because it points up a problem being faced

in many other States. Tennessee found itself with.

a camping problem on its hands. Three of the
Recreational Demonstration Areas with camping
facilities developed by the National Park Service
were turned over to the State park system. Four
additional areas with camping facilities had also
been developed on State park property. The State
therefore found itself with seven areas containing
organized camp facilities being used by the vari-

 

Photo by Reynold Carlson

140

By PAUL S. MATHES

' Commissioner
Tennessee Department of Conservation

for Camp Leaders

ous camping agencies of the
State. The TVA had also
developed a number. of spots

, suitable for organized camp
purposes and'was looking to the State for guid-
ance in the granting of these areas for use-

Need for Training—and Facilities

-As is always, the case, some of the camping
agencies making application-for the use of State
facilities came with a long background of camp
experience while others were new and inexperi-
enced in the field. The State felt considerable con-
cern for the health and safety of campers and for
the proper use of the line facilities and areas under
its jurisdiction. In 1944, therefore, the State em-
ployed Henry Hart as Camp Specialist. Mr. Hart
had had considerable. experience in work with
young people and rec0gnized the possibilities of
improving the camping programs of the State.

The close working relationship between the
camp leaders of the State and the Division of State
Parks led to much consideration of ways and
means of improving the camp programs within the
State. It was felt that the most serious problem
was the lack of sufficient training
on the part of the leaders.

The training course set up at
Fall Creek Falls State Park in the
spring of 1945 was the result of
these considerations. Camp di-
rectors and counselors, experi- '
enced and inexperienced, came
from recreation agencies, churches,
and private camps to register for
the course.

Fall Creek Falls State Park.
contains an area of 16,000 acres
and is located in a rugged section
of the Cumberland Mountains.
Deep gorges, spectacular water-
falls, and varied plant and animal
life make this area an ideal one
for a camping group. \Vith the‘

RECREATION

TENNESSEE BLAZES A NEl/V TRAIL. FOR CAMP LEADERS 141

exception of the organized camp facilities the area
is largely undeveloped and provides excellent op-
portunities for varied outdoor camp activities. Dur-
ing the month of June, when the leadership camp
was held, the canyons were ablaze with azalea and
mountain laurel. The lake'above the dam provided
swimming and canoeing. The numerous trails and
picnic areas provided spots for outdoor demonstra-
tions and nature field trips. Here was a superb

setting in which to bring together the camp lead-
ers of the State.

Instructors and Instruction

In order that the broadest type of experience
might be provided for the “campers,” the instruc-
tion staff was so selected as to include people rep-
resenting national agencies with long experience
in various types of
camping. The Girl
Scouts made avail-
able the services of
Mrs. Kendall Bryan
of their National
Camp Bureau and
Mrs. Chester Marsh,
at that time director
of arts and crafts.
From the Y.W.C.A.
came Miss Marion
Roberts of Boston,
who gave leadership
in music and social
recreation. Bernard ', a!" .

. _ , ,u. '.
Mason, noted au- ( (fie? ‘
thor and lecturer on
camping,‘ directed
the work in camping phiIOSOphy and woodcraft.
Miss Elizabeth Brown and Miss Olive Smith of
the Board of Education of the Methodist Church
acted as unit leaders. Marion Lepich, director of
water safety for the American Red Cross, gave
instruction in waterfront activities. Reynold Carl-
son, director of the nature activities service of the
National Recreation Association, offered leader-
ship in the field of camp nature programs. Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Colby of the State Extension Di-
vision showed the campers the art of folk dancing.
Dr. G. R. Mayfield of Vanderbilt University helped
in the field of bird lore. _'

In order to simulate as closely as possible an
actual youth camp situation the camp was divided
into three units. One unit was made up of camp
directors and two units were made up of camp

JUNE 1946

 

counselors. Much of the instruction was given in
the units and therefore pertained specifically to

the problems of each group. The primary purpose
of the training experience was to give leaders an
over-all understanding of good camp practices and
to help them develop certain leadership skills of
practical value in their own camps. It was recog-
nized that each agency operating a camp has its
own special program but that there are certain
points of view and skills common to all. The shar-
ing of experiences, agency with agency, was ex-
tremely valuable. .
Typical Day

A day in the leadership camp included a wide
variety of experience, of which the following might
be typical:

After breakfast a morning assembly with dis-

cussion of camp ob-

jectives under the
leadership of Ber-
nard Mason is held.

This is followed by

unit meetings with

the directors’ group
discussing camp
health, safety, and
sanitation under the
leadership of Mrs.
’ Bryan and Mrs.

Colby. One coun-

selor unit is down
a in the craft shop
’k' where, under the
direction of Mrs.
Marsh, it is mak-
ing booklets and ex-
perimenting with dyes made from native materi-
als. The third group is at the primitive camp area
working with Dr. Mason to construct a Chippewa
kitchen, to learn how to use an axe and knife and
how to do lashing.

After lunch a rest hour gives time for rest or
study. Some students are in the library while
others are in their own cabins. The camp staff
meets briefly with an elected camp council to de-
termine the following day’s program. At two-
thirty the directors’ unit is down at the craft shop
learning to sketch and carve. One of the coun-
selor units is at the nature hut, some members of
the unit preparing a terrarium while others pre-
pare a mineral display. The third unit is, with Miss

5.
h

Photo by Reynold Carlson

'Roberts outlining a program of camp music.

(Continued on page 173)

The North Carolina Recreation Commission

HE ACTIVITY in North
Carolina toward a State
Recreation Comission be-

gan when the State Recrea-

tion Committee of the North Carolina Office of
Civilian Defense came to the conclusion that per—
haps it was necessary for all of the forces in rec-
reation to be coordinated for cooperation on the
State level. So, a group of the leaders discussed
the subject with the State Superintendent of
Schools, the head of the Department of Conserva-
tion and Development and the Commissioner of
Public Welfare. All of these officials agreed that
it was not the function of any of them to head up
all the recreation work of North Carolina at the
State level. '

After we had cleared with all of these State
agencies, we went to the Governor and tried to
sell him a Bill of Rights for recreation. We started
on the fundamental principle that recreation has
grown up. It has reached its maturity. It ought
to stand on its own feet and not be tied to the
apron strings of some other State department.

Our Governor was convinced of the soundness
of the proposed program. He talks our language.
He decided to put in our suggested bill as an ad-
ministrative measure. It is a tremendous advan-
tage to have the Governor put a bill in as an
administrative measure.

From that time on his leaders in the House and
Senate carried the ball. We had had the Attorney
General work with us on the writing of the bill.
We wanted everything legal, and we wanted the
rights of all State agencies dealing with recreation
clearly protected.

The bill went to the Senate Committee on Pub—
lic Welfare. We got together statistics and all
sorts of things for the hearings, and then we were
told that there was no need for a hearing. “I think
it is all settled,” the chairman said. Not a voice was
raised against the bill in the Senate. Not a single
person talked about throwing away tax money.
The bill passed the Senate without opposition.

Then it went over to the House. There was the

same procedure in the House Committee, and the

bill went through without a single point of op-
position.

One step that we took. I think helped the bill
142

By HAROLD MEYER

Director
North Carolina Recreation Commission

through the Legislature. We
had worked with the Ameri-
can Legion, the Grange, Fed-
erated Women’s Clubs, the
P.T.A., the Future Farmers of America, and some
twenty or twenty-five organizations in the State.
We got them to pass resolutions in their conven-
tions putting- themselves on record as favoring the
State Recreation Commission.

We have a very feeble budget to begin with.
We do not, however, get our money out of the
State contingency fund, .and we are not on trial.
We have our money as a permanent‘agency, and
the amount of the apprOpriation by the Legislature
is $7,500 for each 'year of the biennium 1945-47.
We have every reason to believe that the amount
will grow.

Personnel

The Bureau of Recreation of the Extension Di-
vision of the University of North Carolina as-
sisted the former State Recreation Committee
under O.C.D. to the extent of lending my services,
giving us a part—time secretary, providing postage,
stationery, mimeographing, telephone, telegraph,
and other assistance. In the University I assist the
Extension Division as the Chief of this Bureau of
Recreation. When the Commission was formed the
Governor asked the President of the University to
continue my services as Director of the new Com- ,
mission. We figure that the services of the Uni—
versity of North Carolina to the Commission add
about $8,500 annually to our budget. Hence we
think of our annual Recreation Commission bud-'
get as $16,000, and we are planning to ask the
Legislature, when it meets next January, for a
budget of $25,000. '

Four ex-oflicio members of the Commission are
provided for in the bill—the Governor, the State
Superintendent of Schools, the Director of the De—
partment of Conservation and Development, and
the Commissioner of Public Welfare.

The other members of the Commission were

chosen not geographically but recreationally. The
members of the Commission include a powerful in-

dustrialist, representing manufacturing, labor, and
the power of our industrial group; a Methodist
minister in a small community; a Negro; a man

RECREATION

THENORTH CAROLINA RECREATION COMMISSION 143

interested in training of recreation workers; and a
commercial recreation man who manages seventy-
two motion picture houses in the Carolinas and
Virginia. Incidentally, we, began with the idea
that we must have the Commission represent pub-

lic, private, and commercial recreation interests. .

We believe soundly in commercial recreation in
North Carolina. we are for recreation that is
good whether it is public, private, or commercial.

Next to the Commission and working in co-
Operation with it is an Advisory Committee. This
is an interesting feature. The bill provides that
there shall be an Advisory Committee of not more
than thirty members. The Committee is so ar—
ranged that every member of the Committee heads
up a sub-committee interested in some phase of
recreation: art, church recreation, State parks,
drama, and many more.

In addition to the Commission and the Ad—
viso’ry Committee, we also have consultants repre-
senting State and national organizations and de-
partments related to recreation.

The Commission has three employees. My time
as Director is being contributed by the University
of North Carolina. The assistant' director, who is
the field representative, and the office secretary,
are both employed directly by the Commission.
Our budget also provides for traveling by the staff.
and for mimeographing materials. The Commis-
sion itself meets quarterly and once a year the
Commission meets with the Advisory Committee.
This meeting is usually at the time of the North
Carolina Recreation Conference, sponsored by the
North Carolina Recreation Association.

Program

Let’s look for a minute into what we are doing.
First of all our work is with the local communi—
ties. ’One of our fundamental principles is that
nothing should be done which isn’t worthy of the
local community. We have only nine cities in
North Carolina with populations of more than
25,000. But we have a myriad of small towns,
villages, and rural areas. It is in these smaller
communities that we labor. We have already told
the larger cities that we couldn’t help them much
and that we were going to work in the smaller
communities.

hgal recognition of recreation is one if the first
steps. Our aim is to have recreation setup by law
in every community of 2,500 or more. If it isn’t
possible to establish a formal organization, how-

JUNE 1946

ever, we work toward an informal council so that
some kind of work can get started.

In the last nine months we have helped to work
out recreation system plans in thirty or more com-
munities, resulting in the establishment of a num-
ber of recreation commissions. We have not placed
any executive in any of these communities at less
than $2,700. We are getting some kicks from some
folks who are saying that we are ruining things

'because the wage scale is so high. We are going

to do everything we can to keep the salary scale
right up where it is, as high as the communities
can make it.

Another activity of ours has been making local
studies for tentative recreation planning. We have
made nineteen. 'They are not very scientific, but
we do give the communities a chance to find out
what their situation is. There is no charge for this
service. We make these studies with our own per-
sonnel. If we haven’t time to make a study, we tell
the community to go to the National Recreation
Association. They will make a charge, but they
do a tine job.

We meet with mayors through the Mayors’ As-
sociation. They are now getting out a guide book
of recreation for the State. We have had the State
Recreation Enabling Act revised and strengthened,
particularly as related to recreation as a function

'of municipal government in North Carolina.

We are working on living memorials. We are
trying to guide communities not only in getting
the money for the building but for maintenance
as well.

We are working with youth groups and have
sent out 800 youth kits. We work with the Boy
Scouts and the Girl Scouts and any other estab-
lished groups in the State.

Industrial recreation is growing tremendously
in our State. We are trying to get industries in
North Carolina to cooperate with community pro—
grams instead of starting their own. Where there
is no local program we urge industries to go ahead
and start their own programs, and we help them
as we are able. ’

'/In rural recreation we are working with the
Agricultural Extension Service folks. We believe
that the best way to handle rural recreation is on
a county basis, and we organized just recently the
first county recreation commission in North Caro-
lina. We h0pe to have 100 counties all organized
on a county-wide recreation basis.

( Continued on page 173)

A State University

Serves the American People's Theater

to its citizens beyond those of

providing an education to stu—
dents who attend its classes. Most
State universities recognize these obligations and
seek to fulfill them by the establishment of exten-
sion services, especially for the rural communities.
You may learn to make better jelly and raise
better pigs simply by writing to the extension
division of your State university.

But you may not be so fortunate in trying to get
information about how to organize and train a
glee club or how to produce a_ play. Why universi-
ties, which are supposed to be the centers of cul—
ture as well as of learning, have been so slow in

A STATE UNIVERSITY has obligations

By C. R. KASE

' Director of Dramatics
University of Delaware

sharing the arts with the people in the
areas within their spheres of influence
is an enigma for the historian to ex-
plain.

“West of Broadway”

. There has grown up, perhaps as a result of the
war, a realization that those less tangible aspects
of life which we generally refer to as the arts are
vital factors in our lives. Particularly important
are those arts which the people may share in cre—
ating. In the drama field alone has developed a
tremendous people’s theater which, prior to the
war, Barrett Clark estimated gave 250,000 separ—
ate productions each year. The activities of these

The Forest Theater at the University of North Carolina

 

144

RECREATION

A STATE UNIVERSITY SERVES THE AMERICAN PEOPLE’S THEATER 145

people who want to make their own theater has
since increased. There has been established a vast
theater “\Vest of Broadway.” Here there is
floundering at which some of us who work in the
field must blush, but it has no limitations either as
art or recreation that a little intelligent encourage-
ment cannot eliminate.

This theater takes many different forms, from
skits given in service clubs and women’s clubs to
the elaborate productions of community or civic
theaters. ’Regardless of its form, however, it has
come to be regarded as an important phase of
recreation in the community. Potentially the thea-
ter can be a strong unifying force in the com-
munity, for the theater brings together people with
all kinds of skills and talents. It is a miniature
world in which the democratic mingling of all
pe0ple can and does work.

The scope of service to this people’s theater is
vast.' I do not wish to imply that our State uni-
versities have not made any effort to help it ad-
vance. There have been notable instances, as in
Iowa, North Dakota, North Carolina and New
York, where a considerable regional activity in
drama has developed as' a result of extension ser-
vices in dramatics established in State universities.
But there are still great areas in which a pe0ple’s
theater must still struggle without encouragement
or assistance exceptfrom local sources. The pat-
tern of service has been set, but it needs to be
multiplied. ‘ '

Pattern for Drama Service

It may be possible to suggest the nature of this
pattern by explaining the organization and func-
tioning of the Dramatic,Center at the University
of Delaware. There is no claim that our services
are better than any others, but I am better ac-
quainted with them, and I know they have been
based upon the experience of those universities
mentioned above who pioneered in the field.

The Dramatic Center functions in close coopera-
tion with the Delaware Dramatic Association, an
organization of approximately seventy-five school
and community theaters in the area. The members
share our services, but we in turn profit through
additions to our services made possible by the
work of their various committees. Experience has
indicated that any State university dramatic ser-
vice will find a greater usefulness through affilia-
tion with such an organization.

Each year, in cooperation with the Delaware
Dramatic Association, the Dramatic Center spon-

JUNE 1946

sors a Dramatic Conference. The last Conference
held before the war was attended by 280 delegates
representing forty-five community and school the‘a-
ters in four States. Considering the small geo-
graphical area represented, this attendance indi-
cated a considerable activity.

Recently a special Children’s Theater Confer-
ence was held. Twenty organizations were repre-
sented and a start was made in organizing Chil-
dren’s Theater activity throughout the State.

Each year there is organized a play festival with
regional programs culminating in a final program
at the University at which a nationally-known
theater director makes comments and suggestions
to the casts and staffs on their productions.

Like many other services, the Dramatic Center
maintains a Play Lending Library from which pro-
ducing groups can borrow plays they are consid-
ering for presentation. Ours is based upon the
selective principal and we have tried to eliminate
from the Library those plays which did not have
some merit. Thus users of the Library know that
their selections have already been screened, and
the general standards of play selections are auto-
matically raised.

The Dramatic S erm'ce News aims to keep the
members of the Delaware Association acquainted
not only with what others in our own area are
doing in theater, but also with the significant activi-
ties of the people’s theater across America. We try
to include information which would be of some
value in selecting or preparing productions. For
example, we ran a series of articles by leading
directors in the high school theater in each _of
which six plays were recommended for high school
production.

There are various types of consultation services
too numerous to mention. Prior to the war we

were consulted by several architects in regard to

the building of stages and auditoriums. Most of
the consultation, however, is of the what-play-
shall-we-do type.

Touring Theaters

A possible service which is already being de-
veloped by some universities is that of taking thea-
ter to the people. Touring companies are estab-
lished to carry productions to fifteen or twenty com-
munities in the State. Another method of achiev-
ing this objective is that of creating circuits so
that a group of producing units can share each
other’s performances.

(Continued on page 170)

DRURY COLLEGE LIBRARY

Il'--- ..'
. -- .

The Montana ‘ Project

HE MONTANA PROJECT was
Torganized in behalf of rural

life and the small community.
In this western rural State, as elsewhere in
America, rural communities are disintegrating.
Their population recedes. Their function declines.
Of the 3,072 counties in the United States more
than 82 percent are losing rural population. More
than 5I percent are being depopulated. The sta-
bilization and enrichment of our small communi-
ties have become a primary problem, if not the
primary problem, in America. The Montana sector
of it is not the least critical.

In all this the recreational interest is important.
But recreation here does not refer to highly o_r-
ganized public or private programs of amusement.
It does not refer to leisure—time activities as spe—
cifically contrasted with work activities. It refers
to the enrichment of life in such a way that both
work and leisure are more significant apprecia-
tively and productively. The Montana Study is a
humanities project focussed in the community. It
is planned in the belief that a study of ways to
make the small community more significant and
more central in human education, recreation, art,
business, social activity and, indeed, in human life
in general, will help more than anything else in
our contemporary culture to give that life stability
and intrinsic worth. The project was organized
two years ago under Chancellor Ernest O. Melby
of the university system and was financed initially
by one of the great foundations.

Objectives and Organization

The Montana Study has three objectives, which
support and amplify each other—to get the uni—
versity off the campus and more directly into the
service of the people on their native ground, to
find ways to stabilize and enrich the small com-
munities, to find ways to give young peOple a sig-
nificant function. These objectives have been ap-
proached through various paths according to the
needs and resources of the situations as they arise.
If the family can become more productive, not
merely as individuals but as a cooperating family
group, if the community as a community can be-
' come more rather than less productive, these 0b-
jectives, it is believed, may be largely attained.

146

By BAKER BROWNELL
Director of the Montana Study

But in the face of current de-
clines, can that greater produc-
tion be achieved? The answer
lies largely in the cultural choices and values that
our people accept.

The organization of the Montana Study is a
matter of projects, or jobs, and personnel. The
personnel during the first two years has been
limited to one full-time man, the director, six part-
time associates who served for different periods
from twelve weeks to two years, and numerous
unpaid collaborators in the communities and col-
leges of the State. The work of the Montana
Study may be divided roughly into community
study group work and other community activities,
research as it bears on these problems, the or-
ganization of volunteer projects, the training of
study group and other community leaders, and
publications.

The first of these is the most important and in
this the organization of community study groups
is central. Eight weekly study groups have been
organized and carried through experimentally to
the end of the first ten weeks. A study group
guide called Life in Montana, as Seen in Lone-
pine, a Small Community has been written for this
first series. A manual for the organization of
study groups has been written in the form of an
article. Techniques and invaluable experience in
study group methods have been acquired. 'On the
initiative of study group members a State-wide
association entitled the Montana Study Group As-
sociation has been organized.

For the second series of study groups a guide 1

has been projected but not yet written. A- highly
successful community drama “Darby Looks at
Itself” has been produced. This will be continued.
A Pondera County Fall Folk Festival; a drama-
pageant at Stevensville; and recreatiOn projects at
Conrad, Victor, Lonepine, Libby, Lewiston, Ham-
ilton are under consideration or in process of
development. Plans for short courses for the train-
ing (if community leaders are underway.

Activated Research

A good deal of research has been carried on in
connection with the work of the Montana Study.
It is, so to speak, activated research for the pur—

RECREATION

THE MONTANA PROJECT 147

pose of clarifying the action and central problems
of the project. In- cooperation with the U. S. For-
est Service an important study of the stabilization
of a lumber town in view of the projected sustained
yield program was carried on during the summer
of 1945. Two rural sociologists were brought in

j by the Montana Study. Their excellent report
and recommendations were made to the Montana
Study and under its. direction. The project was

| financed, however, by the Forest Service. A study
of community training for teachers was made for
the Montana Study by a member of the faculty of
the School of-Education. A ninth grade curricu-
lum and educational program entitled H ow We
Live in Montana was made by a Montana teacher
and member of the Summer School workshop. A
study of Indian education in Montana, and a full
statistical study of the characteristics of 'the pe0ple
of Montana were made by members of the Mon—
tana-Study staff. 0. E. Baker and Arthur E.
Morgan were brought to Montana for a series of
addresses on the preservation of the family and the
small community. Under the auspices of the
Montana Study, Howard C. Beresford, regional
recreational representative of the F.S.A. visited
seven communities and their study groups and
studied with them their specific recreation prob—
lems. These and other research projects are geared
closely to the active work of the project.

Volunteer Projects and Leadership

An ample frame for volunteer projects asso-
ciated with the Montana Study was created by the
organization of a state-wide advisory group called
the Montana Committee. This is a group of sixty-

l five diverse persons of all parties and persuasions
q. and of more or less prominence in the State. This
n committee-in turn is divided into numerous sub-
: committees devoted to different projects in line
with the objectives of the Montana Study. Some
. of these subcommittees are functioning admirably.
One of them, for example, organized not long ago
I a Montana Crafts Association to raise the stand—
ards of and to encourage craft work, both amateur
I and professional, in the State. Other subcommit-
tees, as is to be expected, have for one reason or
j another accomplished little. There are other promis—
ing volunteer projects of the Montana Study. Under
a leading Baptist clergyman and church worker,
for example, an effort is being made to develop
facilities for the interdenominational training of
ministers in community service. The field for such
volunteer projects is limited only by the ability of

II JUNE 1946

the staff of the Montana Study to make the con—
tacts and to help in the organization.

The training of community study group leaders
and other community leaders is a most important
aspect of the Montana project on which little as
yet has been done. Ideally these leaders should be
natives of the community and should be trained
within that context. As the importance of the
work becomes more evident to educational admin-
istrators it is hoped opportunities will be opened
for young men of ability to return to their home
communities for such work. Short courses or
week—end courses for such training are planned
for the coming year. A mobile college entering
different communities for four to ten weeks at a
time is another way to meet the problem. Both
old and young people are greatly needed for trained
community leadership in their own communities.

Publications

The Montana Study has been the initiating point
of a great deal of publication both in printed and
in lecture form. A massive anthology of Montana
regional literature has been prepared and will be
published soon by the Yale Press. The preparation
of this anthology was requested by 450 Montana
school administrators and teachers. Numerous
articles in various professional journals have ac—
quainted the nation as a whole with the work of
the Montana Study. It has had a favorable press
and a good deal published in the papers of the
State. Several hundred lectures by the staff have
been requested by communities and other organi-
zations in the State. In most cases these requests
were accepted by members of the staff.

On the whole the best response to the Montana
Study has been in the small communities them-
selves. This is as it should be. Their magnificent
response indicates clearly that.the project is strik-
ing at a vital need in the State and one demanding .
far more educational attention than it gets. The
small community in Montana or elsewhere in
America is the great and neglected resource of
cultural enrichment and stabilization. It needs
much, it has even more to give.

This work of the Montana Study and the de-
velopment of these projects along a certain social
and spiritual line are the outgrowth of a philoso-

' phy of the community and human welfare. It is a

philosophy that in its essentials would seem to be
necessary to any democratic, liberal or Christian
order of society, for it is based on the primary im-

148 THE MONTANA PROJECT

portance of the whole human being in his relations
with other whole human beings. It is a philoso-
phy which repudiates those powerful tendencies in
modern culture to fragment and specialize living
and to develop mass societies of partitive, frag-
mented human beings held together only by ex—
ternal forces and authorities. It is a_ philoSophy also
which involves an informal philosophy of recrea-
tion. This will be discussed briefly in the following
section of this article.

A Philosophy of Recreation

There is folk recreation on the one hand and
there is the more specialized recreation of an urban
civilization on the other. The latter kind of recre-
ation tends to become deliberate rather than spon-

taneous, and often is highly organized. Such recre— -

ation is increasingly important in an industrial
culture where work is ever more sharply segre-
gated from leisure. Indeed it is necessary in such
a culture.

Recreation of this sort involves the planning and
organization of leisure, and like leisure in our
modern culture, it is likely to be neither productive
nor participative in events in any active way. It
runs along parallel to production and significant
action, but is not of it. Thus, the day’s hard work
and the movies at night. Or the week of labor and
then watching the game between the- Cubs and
Pirates on Saturday afternoon. Or the holidays
and vacations designed to get away from some-
thing, namely the economic routine. This modern
rhythm of work and pleasure-seeking is not en-
tirely good, but is probably necessary in our in-
dustrial culture. In it recreation becomes syste-
matic and extensive. It is organized leisure, often
mass-organized leisure.

Folk recreation, on'the other hand, is more dif-
-fused and correspondingly less formal, less abstract
and less specialized. It belongs in a rural or com-
munity culture. where .work and leisure are not
sharply segregated, or in other words where work
has appreciative aspects and where leisure is in a

and without value. 'Truly significant and whole-.
some recreation depends on its diffusion through-
out the significant activities of life. That in turn
involves a culture where work and work habits
are shot through with appreciative interests and
have worth in themselves and where leisure is shot
through with functional interests and productive
values.

The small community is the central social fact
in such a pattern and the survival of the true,

- small community is essential in any normal, human-

centered recreational life. Correlated with the small
community, at least in our democratic system, is
the family as a functional group: Also correlated
with it are the rural or semi-rural conditions under
which the small community develops. Nor should
the groups and clottings characteristic of the great
city be termed communities. Cities have no com-
munity life as the community is defined here—a
group of people living within range of each other
and containing persons of different ages, sexes,
occupational interests and attitudes. It is a group
in which the main functions. of life, economic, social,
biological are carried on within the group. It is a
face to face, or primary group, in which the mem—
bers may know each other personally and rather
fully. In the cities people are associated with each
other in terms of special functions. They know
each other only in fragments, as the man who takes
one’s ticket or the man who runs the elevator. In
the true community on the other hand, people are
associated with each other in many different ways.
Whole human beings know whole human beings
and c00perate with them. Humanly the one situa-
tion is culturally and morally disintegrative. The
other is integrative.

In view of these considerations the recreational
problem is really in last analysis the community
problem. Though urban life no doubt requires
ameliorative recreation, such recreation cannot
solve the problem. A pattern of culture in which
recreation can be truly integrative and constructive
—as well as good fun—is required. A greater
emphasis on folk culture and the small community

r-

measure productive and active. This, in the phi-

. is necessary. . ' - \
losophy of the Montana Study at least, is the only

’0

normal and tolerable pattern of life for human
beings. If our modern industrial culture matures
to a point where leisure and work are entirely

Thisbriefly states the position of the Montana.
Study in regard to recreation. Clearly recreation
is not a single function of social life or policy. It is

segregated and where recreation is a highly 0r-
ganized process solely for leisure time, work will
be worthless and unbearable and leisure tasteless

concerned with the whole life, the good life, as it is

found in normal community relationships and
human association. ‘2

RECREATION

| FROM A STATE-WIDE point of

A State Planning Board Plans

for Recreation.

view, the need for public

recreation is very great in
Pennsylvania as it is in all in-
dustrial States and in most agricultural States.
While we are deeply concerned in and feel acutely
the problems of industrial areas, we, in Pennsyl-
vania, have to keep in mind that we have one-

third of our pe0ple living in the country. We can- ,

not lose sight of the fact that our rural p0pulation
is the foundation of our existence. If we do not
make life more attractive for pe0ple in rural areas,
the process that has been going on for many years
will continue, and we will lose our rural people in
excessive number to the cities and so add to the
conditions of congestion that we are all familiar
with. That has to be kept constantly in mind by
our Commonwealth.

\Vhile we realize fully the needs of children for
recreation, we also have to keep in mind that our
population is growing older and that the older
people, living under crowded industrial conditions
or on remote farms need more attention than they
have been getting in the past. These two consid—
erations form the background, as I would inter-
pret it, of the program of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.

-The State can do two things. It can attend to
the needs of that part.of the public which can
travel to the large areas that are now open to
public recreation- It can improve those areas and
make them more suitable for group and individual
use. But it must also stimulate activity' in local
areas and aid in providing the kind of local public
recreation that these times require.

-.,

F

State Parks and Forests

The Department of Forests and \Vaters was
granted by our State Legislature $16,500,000 for
the improvement of parkiand forest areas and for
other similar purposes. Of that amount $6,200,000
has been tentatively set aside for recreation de—
velopment—for the further development of State
parks and of the four Recreational Demonstration
Areas that we have taken over from the National
Park Service; for the improvement of facilities,
such as cabins; and for the acquisition of further
land suited to public recreation. That Department

JUNE 1946

By ROY A. HELTON

Research Supervisor .
Pennsylvania State Planning Board

will soon take over from the Na-
tional Park Service one more
Recreational Demonstration
Area. -

The allocation of that money is being guided by
the State Planning Board, by the newly appointed
Conservation Commission, and by the Recreation
Committee of the Postwar Planning Commission,
all of which are actively concerned that recreation
get as large a part of this $16,500,000 appr0pria-
tion as is reasonably possible in view of other
needs for forest and stream development.

Planning

The Postwar Planning Commission has author-
ized a study of the recreation facilities of all the
counties and communities of Pennsylvania. The
preliminary report, which was prepared by a
private agency, covered in a general way the rec-
reation needs in all the counties and all the dis-
tricts in the Commonwealth. The Recreation
Committee of the Postwar Planning Commission
has been very eager to forward public recreation
on the community and county basis.

The State Planning Board has been interested
in public recreation for years. For a while we
maintained a State Recreation Committee which,
during the war, had to be suSpended because of
our shortage of personnel. We compiled a digest
of all the recreation legislation of the State which
we have icirculated in our communities, trying to
get people to realize what they could do to secure
local recreation facilities and leadership under our
State law.

Handcrafts'

\V e have also started, and are carrying through,
a program for handorafts throughout the Com-
monwealth. \Ve have an assistant on the Planning
Board who devotes her entire time to the develop-
ment of crafts. Our aim is to make handcrafts
useful to older people. We have developed four
chapters of the Pennsylvania Handcraft Guild
which are now active in four of our larger cities.
We are trying to make this project practical, not
from a hobby angle, but to provide older people
with something that they can do with enjoyment
to assist in earning their own living.

149

150 A STATE PLANNING BOARD PLANS FOR RECREATION

We are publishing every month or so a circular
or leaflet of four or five pages called Pennsylvania
H andcrafts, which is circulated throughout the
State for those who are interested. That is about
all the Planning Board is now doing, except in
guiding the appropriation and allocation of funds.

The Pennsylvania Enabling Act covers all com-
munities and all school districts. Under this Act
any school district is allowed to introduce any
form of recreation it pleases, and it is compelled,
if fifteen citizens over sixteen years of age petition
it, to extend to adults in after-school hours all the
facilities and any form of instruction or leader—
ship in recreation, sports, or social activities which
are provided for children as part of the school
activities. Any community in Pennsylvania can
take advantage of the provision of this law.

Promoting Local Interest

Our present problem is to get the people of the
communities interested enough to demand those

activities and facilities. When they are granted,
the State provides aid up to as much as 75 percent
of the cost to ,the school districts of conducting
these extracurricular activities. If we could get
enough communities in Pennsylvania to take ad-
vantage of these privileges, many of the State’s
local recreation problems would be solved.

“The Fish and Game Commission of Pennsyl-
vania does a'great deal for one type of public rec-
reation. This Commission, through hunters’ and
fishermen’s fees, has“ purchased, at no cost to the
general taxpayer, 1,000,000 acres of public land
which are used for hunting and fishing, and they
are extending the area.

In connection with the activities of the State
Department of Forest and Waters many State
agencies, including the Planning Board and Post—
war Planning Commission, the new Conservation
Commission, and the Department of Public In-
struction, are doing all they can to direct public

( Continued on page 174)

Fisherman's Paradise

 

Courtesy Pennsylvania Board of Fishing C ommissz'onag

‘ RECREATION

Toward a

Fuller
Life

By JANE FARWELL

National Recreation
Association

HERE IS A JOB of tremendous
Timportance for recreation that

can be done in the rural areas,
.although many rural people still
feel that recreation is something
they don’t need to learn about!
During the war recreation was a
“luxury” which they could do
without. Along with music and
arts it was cut from many school
budgets and from church and club
programs. Emphasis was placed
instead on salvage drives and food
production. .

It was the job of the State
Agricultural Extension in West
Virginia to teach some of the values of recreation
and the simple fact that one had to learn a little
about the art of living in order to enjoy a full life—
even in the country. In each of the counties in the
State there were several extension workers who
were responsible for promoting the various phases
of the extension program, one phase of which was
recreation.

Before getting at teaching techniques or leader-
ship schools, it was necessary to make rural lead—
ers aware of the need for retreation. On these
county workers and volunteer leaders depended
the working out of local problems and the building
of something akin to a unified program through—
out the State. They made it possible to get at least
to first base in convincing farm people that im-
proving their recreation habits and skills was as
important as home management, soil conserva—
tion, and better methods in food preservation.
Their cooperation and understanding was of pri-
mary importance to the. program.

JUNE 1946

 

The craftsman

Jackson’s Mills

A second and equally important factor in the
West Virginia extension program was the State
leadership training camp at Jackson’s Mills which
was established more than a quarter of a century
ago as one of the first rural camps in the United
States.

To Jackson’s Mills every year, beginning in
May, rural leaders of all kinds come to stay for a
week or longer. Among those who take advantage
of this opportunity are rural ministers, farm men,
4-H leaders and club members, rural school teach-
ers and, most important of all, farm women. The
farm women use the camp site for several confer-
ences and camps a year. Here they engage in rec-
reation activities, a thing which tired and reserved
farm women theoretically will not do. But when
the women get away from their families and the
people who expect them to play quietly or not at

151

152 ' TOWARD A FULLER LIFE

all, they enjoy active stunts and games and non-
sense they would never want their relatives or
children to catch them doing at home!

An amusing example of the spirit of enthusiasm
which is generated under such circumstances hap-
pened at a county camp a year or two ago. An
Extension Service worker, trying to recover from
a strenuous day of activities, had gone to bed. At
midnight, she was awakened, and looked out to see
a group of women tiling across the camp grounds
in their nightgowns. They pulled her out of bed
and insisted that it was just the right time to go
out on the green and dance a Virginia Reel in the

moonlight !

Rural leaders who have come to Jackson’s Mills
through the years have been inspired to go back to
their own counties and establish similar camp
sites locally. This accounts for the large number
of well—equipped county camps in the State. By
now at least forty counties have their own camps,
and every county (with the exception of two or
three that do not have extension agents) has an
annual camping program, the climax in club ex-

perience for the year.

In other States, too, camping is the “coming
thing” in rural recreation. Many State extension

services are setting up State camp sites as war
memorials, although they realize that a State camp

and even district camps are not enough. Rural '-

people need such facilities close to home.

Other Services

Recreation in West Virginia is promoted in
other ways by the Agricultural .Extension Service
in addition to the help given in State and county
camp setups. Emphasis is laid upon leadership
training schools conducted either on a community,
county, or district basis. It is true that personnel
is very limited to do the job, but one effective way
of spreading a service over a large area was to
conduct training schools of one day to a week in
duration. These were by no means limited to
extension club groups.

In addition the organization of recreation coun-
cils was promoted in as many counties as possible.
These councils acted as a monthly clearing house
for all the recreation talent in each county. The
'rural church leaders, Scouts, if there happened to
be any, the Grangers, and the schools combined
with the 4—H Clubs and Farm Women’s Clubs in
sending representatives to meetings where games
and program ideas were exchanged.

In order to follow through on the training
schools and on the council programs, it was neces-
sary to mimeograph and distribute most of the
material used at the schools and in the council
programs. The result was a varied program ser—
vice including a monthly, Fun-for-the-Month,
which was received by all recreation leaders in
4-H or Farm Women’s Clubs in the State as well
as by many others on the-mailing list. A dozen
other publications on specialized activities from
Caveman Cookery to Folk Dancing have been
issued in the past five years. Several extension
radio programs" were conducted regularly, telling
about these publications and giving additional sug-
gestions for program material. At one time, in the
Oglebay Park area alone, two recreation programs
were being broadcast each week for rural people.

-At the State camp each June, all the older 4-H

members and the leaders who were going to act as— ’

instructors in county camps came together for nine
days of intensive training. Later this group was
divided into teams of from two to .four people,
and each team spent six weeks going about to
supplement the local leadership in county camps.
Many future county and club agents came out of
this group. It was easy to see how quickly songs,
games, and stunts taught at Jackson’s Mills spread
to every hamlet. '

Of course, in leadership training it is possible
to get a lot more across to people in an informal
environment, such as a camp situation, than in a
formal classroom atmosphere. When people come
in and sit for two hours in a county meeting, they
are thinking, “I must go out and get that good
roast I saw at the corner butcher shop. Hope this
is over with intime.” But when leaders come to a
camp their attention is undivided. They can’t go
anywhere else. They sleep in the same area, eat
there, sing together, and exchange ideas. By the
end of even the shortest camp, they have developed
a keen enthusiasm and understanding of the job
they aregoing back to do. It takes much more
effort and energy to attempt to accomplish the same
thing in a formally conducted institute of school.
The sooner this method is'put into practice wher-

ever possible the more effectively will recreation
objectives be accomplished.

This whole extension program is based upon
volunteer leadership, else it could not exist. The
following comment on the volunteer leader was
written by Dr.  B. Smith, formerly Chief of the

(Continued on page 161)

RECREATION

Recreation Services in Tennessee's Parks

OWN SOUTH, we consider
D recreation an art of liv-
ing, a personal preroga-

tive, and for, that reason, our
plan is rather limited for fear that we might im—
pose upon that great human right. We realize
that the problems that exist in every State are
brought on by our modern way of living and have
attempted in a simple way to meet some of these
challenges. ' ‘
First, in our State park program, we realized
the challenge that confronted us, because we knew
the need of recreation in our communities, in our
crossroad schools, and even up at the end of the
trail. We also realized the complexities of our
moreurban areas, and so we have attempted, in a

JUNE 1946

By WILLIAM H. HAY
DirectorI Division of state Parks
Tennessee Department at Conservation

I’

 

very humble and simple way,
to get a start that may be
fitting to this situation.

We started off first, being
a State park agency, by deve10ping for each State
park a recreation program that would be tied in
with the communities surrounding that area within
a 25- to 50-mile radius. Our recreation leaders
and park superintendents went into these com-
munities and worked with the various agencies
cencerned with recreation, regardless of whether
they were churches, luncheon clubs, or what have
you, and we built our program around their de-
sires. There was never an attempt made to plan
something and to take it to a community and say,
“Here it is. Take it whether you like: it or not.”

It 1- .l t
a . i n‘
. . O
_ _. " ~_. Isa.‘

3'3.-

IH IFS]; !. Htu'uf't .’ N." u: in. u I. l

154 RECREATION SERVICES IN TENNESSEE’S PARKS

When we became actively concerned with camp-
ing we took over a number of Recreational Demon-
stration Areas from the National Park Service and
also developed camp areas in some of our State
parks. From-that time until the present, we have
developed a close working relationship with com-
munities and larger agencies conducting camp pro—
grams. Today, the State is operating over 75
percent of the camping facilities in Tennessee.

As an outgrowth of this work with communities
and camping agencies, we initiated last summer a
Camp Leaders’ and Directors’ Training Program.
This training program was conducted in one of
our State parks with the participation of every
agency interested in camping in the State. We
had approximately seventy-Five persons participat-
ing in this program. A staff of national promi—
nence was secured for the training program and
we were assisted very ably and fully by the good

National Recreation Association. This program, .

the First of its kind in the nation, was a definite
success and has already done much to advance the
cause of camping in Tennessee. The State Parks
Division has employed a Camping Consultant to
assist local camp councils and camping agencies in
planning, developing and improving their camp
programs.

Federal Agencies

In the WPA days we developed a close working
relationship with federal agencies. We c00perated
with WPA in its community work, particularly in
providing technical assistance ‘in designing facili-
ties, and in problems of community planning and
leadership programs. In fact, many WPA leader-
ship training programs were conducted in our
State parks and we assisted with the programs.

For a year_ during the war our State Parks
Division actively sponsored and administered a
grant of Federal and State funds to cooperate
with the USO, FSA, and local communities in the
Tennessee Second Army Maneuver Area, in pro—
viding recreation programs, comfort facilities,
soldier recreation centers, and hOSpitality programs
for the tens of thousands of troops stationed in
twenty-three counties to learn the art of war.
Much work was done in community planning and
in helping local people work together to provide
needed volunteer leadership and other available
resources. By sponsoring these activities we were
able to give worth—while direction to the program.

In August'of 1942 we entered into a cooperative
agreement with the Tennessee Valley Authority
whereby we employed a full-time recreation spe—
cialist to work with communities in the Tennessee
Valley Area, assisting them in planning for the
development of recreation areas and programs ad-
jacent to the many TVA lakes and also assisting
local communities in planning and developing com—
munity recreation programs.

For many years We have worked closely with
all Federal agencies concerned with recreation,
such as the National Park Service. In 1937 one

'of the most important but least known develop—

ments in the field of recreation took place when
the Park, Parkway, and Recreation Study, was
instigated by the National Park Service. 'This
Study was carried on’ at the State level by State
park organizations, where they existed, in coopera-
tion with the State Planning Commissions. This
survey was a very intensive study of the various
States’ recreation resources and was the beginning
of our cooperation with the National Park Service.

National and State Groups

In addition to working with the National’Park
Service, we have c00perated with the Forest Ser—
vice, WPA, FSA, and with national agencies such
as the National Recreation Association, with
whom we have had a long and pleasant relation-
ship. We have worked closely with the American
Red Cross, the Girl Scouts and many other or-
ganizations and have called on most of them for
help from time to time.

In Tennessee we have worked with all of the
State agencies concerned with any phase of parks
and recreation. They have recognized the fact that
the State Parks Division is legally established and
is permanently located in the .State’s administrative
setup. From the standpoint of good administra—
tion it is the logical agency to carry on this im-
portant program.

Our success has been due to the fact that there
has been a deiinite place for responsibility and\.
authority in the State’s administrative setup. Com-r»
munities and other groups and Federal agencies,
such as the TVA, have learned to look to the State
Parks Division as the responsible State agency for
rendering assistance and leadership in planning
for the development of Tennessee’s recreationf

resources. V

RECREATION

What They Say About Recreation

11 UT THIS IS REAL. I hear the splashing of feed-

B ing waterfowl; a horned owl calls from out

the darkening wood; a lone woodcock flut—

ters past. Life goes on as it did before the white

.man came. There is beauty here. There is seren-

ity. There is peace in the evening sky.”—-William
Arthur Babson in Modern Wilderness.

“Music is the fourth material want of our
nature—first food, then raiment, then shelter, then

muéic.”—Bavee.

“One way to protect a boy from poor books is
to see that he has plenty of actively good ones—
rousing tales of adventure, biographies of’ his
favorite heroes, books about rocks or bugs or stars
or whatever his particular interest in the out of
doors may be.”—May Lamberton Becker.

“We find that art, in decorative or even in
higher forms, is connected with every human ex—
istence. Art is part of the earliest and most primi—
tive human life, like bread and water. Thus art is
one of the most elementary and necessary expres—
sions of all human beings.”—Ernst Harms.

“American forests are one of the most impor-
tant of our renewable resources. They occupy one—
third of our country, an area exceeding the home-
lands of 230 million people in Europe. American
forests cover a vast area. They should also afford
vast opportunity.”—From ew Forest Frontiers.

“What is sung in- club meetings infiuences the
taste of members more or less for life. .You’ve all
heard that good music soothes the savage breast,
and to my way of thinking bad music makes one
a savage.”—National 4-H Club News.

“We need more people who will take the rich
store of songs in our possession and share them
with others. We need more song leaders—more
bards.”—-From The W omans Press, January 1943.

“I don’t know what a community is. It’s every-
thing, I guess, from New York City to the party
wire on the rural telephone line.”—Dr. Lindsley
Kimball.

JUNE 1946

“The public library is the key, for children, to
all the knowledge, wisdom and enchantment the .
world has accumulated in its six or seven thou—
sand years of conscious effort at self-improvement
—what we like to call civilization. Its door; to
most children, is the dOOr to fairyland.”—Kenneth
C. Kaufman. a

“It is the birthright of all who take pleasure in
being out of doors to know that the fullest measure
of enjoyment to be obtained from wildlife cannot
come "through its destruction, but through its pro-
tection, study, and observation.”—From Editorial
in National Par/es Magazine.

“The things of nature remain and are the only
permanent and enduring things in a world of dis-
ordered change; the trees and the mountains and
the deserts have“ seen many civilizations rise to
their peaks and crash to their fall.”—.lolm R.

l/Vliite. .

“Do not be deceived. Every right begets a cor-
responding duty. We promise you the pursuit of
happiness. We do not promise you happiness. We
promise you equality of opportunity. We do not
promise you riches. We promise you freedom of
speech. We do not promise you wisdom. We
promise you liberty. We do not promise you
peace.”—F. Lyman W indolph.

“When in wild places, tread carefully and handle
gently, for the creations of nature are fragile
things.”—-Nati0nal Parks Illagaeiize, 1946.

“We all face increasing leisure. What shall we
do with it? One of the tragedies of our times is
the variety and beauty of things around us and the
silly and sometimes sordid use we make of them.
We educate people to make a living rather than
teaching them how to make a life.”——-Dr. Lindsley

Kimball.
' ' 155

The State of Recreation.
' in the

State of Vermont

thunderstorm the first Coun-
cil of Safety of the State of
Vermont was organized. Its

IN JUNE 1777 during a heavy

duties were to “direct the affairs. of the new State '

until a suitable government could be formed” and
to organize the people of the area against British
aggrandizement. A hundred and sixty-six years
later the Council of Safety, serving as the Civilian
Defense Authority in another war, assumed re-
sponsibility for the administration of funds allo-
cated by the Governor of Vermont for the develop-
ment of community recreation throughout the
State. In January 1944 the first Vermont Director
of Recreation took up her job. '

The legislature in April 1945 appropriated
$6,000 per annum for the tWo years ending June
30, 1947, ’to the Council of Safety for the Commu—
nity Recreation Advisory Service.

A Director and a Secretary constitutethe Ser-
vice, and they find plenty of work to keep them
busy. Vermont’s population of 360,000 is about
the same as Seattle’s or half that of Boston. There
are 246 cities and towns in the State. One third
of the populationis urban.

The Need and the Service .

The stress of war made Vermont communities
more conscious of their need for recreation. Rec—
reatiOn for tourists has long been a major indus-
try in Vermont, one that brings millions of dollars
to the State. But more and more Vermonters have
been concerned with recreation for themselves in
their own communities. Only upon the request of
the communities th’emselves has any attempt been
made to help them discover, mobilize, and use their
physical and human resources in an effort to raise
the standards and build solidly for the future.

About 60 or 70 percent of the Director’s time is
spent in the field on visits to serve communities.
Advice and assistance have been furnished to com-
munities and to interested groups in the promotion
and organization of community recreation pro-
grams. Of the six year—round recreation systems

156 ' '

By THERESA S. BRUNGARDT

Director of Recreation
Vermont

in Vermont, Montpelier, Proci '
tor, and Woodstock have been
developed with the help of the
Service. All the year-round
superintendents meet quarterly with the Director
in an all-day session to compare problems.and
share ideas.

The Service has also helped in the establishment
of a number of local recreation councils. Each
community has its own special problems. The aim
pf the Service has been to help the localities solve
their own problems in their own way. 'Local coun-
cils are a way for smaller communities to draw
together the representatives of the Grange, P.T.A.,
Legion, church groups and others to prevent over-
lapping of programs and leadership. These coun-
cils also help in the next step, the establishing of _
legal recreation boards with appropriated funds.

The Director helps communities plan their pro-
grams for playgrounds, community centers, youth
centers. Loan of recreation books and pamphlets
has proved valuable. A great deal of service in the'
field of program as well as in other fields is given
through correspondence and the Service has
frequently referred questions to the NationalRec-
reation Association and to other sources of in—
formation.

Help is given in layout and design of areas and
facilities, and here again reference is frequently
made to experts in these fields. Referring localities
to the right answers to their questions is one of
the important services of the Recreation Advisory
Service.

Leadership Training

to recruit professional workers for placement and
to train professional and volunteer workers through .4
institutes and workshop conferences. Plans have \Px
been completed for a playground leaders’ insti- i
tute this summer. The instructor will be Mrs.
Ruth Garber Ehlers of the National Recreation
Association. The Director has also encouraged
communities to hold their own training institutes.

( C ontz'nued on page 163) 

. . l
The need for leadershlp has made It necessary ._I
i

RECREATION

L-

I

I
l

BERKELEY, California,
considers the develop-
ment of a long-range
recreation program of prime importance. The An-
nual Report of Berkeley’s City Manager (1945)
states that this program has been given high prior-
ity in the over—all plan for the city’s development.

The report says further that the city’s current
expenditure for recreation is $185,115.59, or $1.84
per capita. This is 8.13 percent of Berkeley’s total
budget, and includes funds allocated to parks—
primarily, because of the manpower shortage, for
playgrounds and park maintenance.

Priority to Recreation

THE Department of
Public Recreation in
Waukesha, Wisconsin,
felt the need, from time to time, to send to all
workers in the Department brief pointers on vari-
ous phases of the work as well as material designed
to stimulate interest in the job to be done. So a
series of weekly bulletins were inaugurated and
sent to all leaders.

This Department, too, has proved successful a
plan to take their publicaddres's system to each
playground once a week. The sound equipment is

used for storytelling, for announcements and for
conducting contests.

Ideas From Waukesha

THE National Girl
Scout Training School
at Camp Edith Macy
‘ has announced the
schedule for its conferences and institutes on lead—
ership for the season from June to October 1946.
Although based on the objectives of Girl Scouting,
the program is broad enough in scope to {it any
group work program and will give lay and pro.-
fessional workers many types of leadership train-
ing. For further information on the sessions,
write to Director,'National Girl Scout Training
School, 155 East 44th Street, New York.

Girl Scout Training
School

HUTCHINSON, Kansas,
recently voted a one-
mill levy for recreation

Recreation Levy

‘ which will make available on January I, 1947

l

about $29,000. The School Board has been desig-
nated as the administering authority but it is the

JUNE 1946

WORLD AT PLAY

0
u
——————————I-_
-—-—-——-———-—————I
l
_—-——_—_—_.._
—_-’-—I-—I-h___-——
I

intention of the superintendent of schools and the
board to delegate that authority to a recreation
commission of five members. Both the school and
park authorities will be represented.

THE Columbus, Ohio,
Camp Council, though
it recognized that there
is a “wide divergence in phi1050phy, program
practices, sites and equipment, size, organization
and the like,” felt the need of a set of basic criteria
to “serve as guides by which individual camps
could measure their senvices.” The Council under—
took to draw up such a set of criteria, with special
emphasis on their. own local picture, but also with
a view to the generally accepted good practices of
camping.

The booklet, published in 1946, and titled Touch—
stone for Good Camping, seems well worth the
price of 30 cents which the Council is charging for
it. It may be ordered from the Columbus Camp
Council, 8 East Long Street, Columbus, Ohio.

Criteria for Camps

 

THE. Board of Direct-
ors of the San Diego
County Coordinating
, Councils reports that
the most recent of San Diego’s youth—centered ac—
tivities is the Community School Camp. It is an
outgrowth of the program inaugurated last sum- .
mer by the City—County Camp Commission for
children not eligible to attend camps affiliated with
special organizations. '

A frontier settlement theme for the program is
being used and there will be a year-round staff of
counselors. In addition to recreation activities,
there will be opportunity for practical social ex—
perience. The camp opened in March, 1946.

Community School'
Camp

 

THE Chicago Park
District Opera and
Operetta Guild gave
its first performance of the Opera “Cavalleria Rus-
ticana,” by Mascagni on March 24 and March 31.
The guild group is made up of both amateur and

young professional singers. Scenery for the pre—
sentation was made in the Park District’s Drama

Shop and the costumes were made in the Costume
Shop.

Music Guild

 

157

158 ' WORLD AT PLAY ' ”

Year-Round School—Beginning July 1, 1946

all teachers in Glencoe, Illinois, will be employed '

on a twelve-month basis, with one month vacation
with pay. The schools will operate the year-round,
giving special attention to recreation activities dur4
ing the summer months. During the regular school
year these activities will be carried on after school,
in the evenings and on Saturdays.

| Metropolitan Recreation Commission — The
County Board of Supervisors has created a Stock-
ton (California) Metropolitan Recreation Com-
mission by special resolution. The authority pro—
vides for the interlocking of city and school juris—
diction in an over—all recreation body for planning
and administration. The Superintendent of Rec-
reation of the Municipal Recreation Department,
will act as director of the new commission.

Coordinating Committee—At a recent meet-
ing of the Coordinating Committee on Plans of the
District of Columbia the District Architect brought
in for the recommendation of the Committee plans
for twelve public schools, each of them designed
with separate recreation facilities. 'This Commit-
tee is composed of several governmental agencies
and a representative of private agencies conduct—
ing recreation so that there can be central consid-
eration of the plans of all government and private
agencies for the acquisition of new areas or the
construction of new recreation buildings.

Community Forums———March saw the first of
a series of community forums which are being
held by the Adult Progressive Club of one of San
Francisco’s neighborhood recreation areas: The
meetings are planned once each month about a
subject _of importance to the welfare of the neigh-
borhood. A short entertainment program and a

pot-luck dinner provided by club members round
off the sessions.

Adults, Tool—Each year the San Francisco
Recreation Department features a doll show as one
of its activities. This, of course, is a high spot in
the year’s occupations for the female contingent of
youngsters and provides more than a day of color
and pride and fun because each playground holds
an elimination“ show.

An especially interesting feature of the San
Francisco show, however, are the five classes for
dolls entered by adults. These are: oldest, most
unique, best dressed, best dressed oldest, and group
dolls to complete .a group or picture theme.

Illinois’ Parks—Illinois is expanding its park
system. Already in 1946 two new parks have been
acquired. Dixon Springs State Park in Pope
County includes 400 acres. Dixon Mounds is an
historical park of about 20 acres near Lewiston in |
Fulton County. In 1945, an additional 2,131 acres '
was acquired for six state parks.

Film Catalog—Castle Films, Inc, 30 Rocke-
feller Plaza, New York 20, New York, has an-
nounced a new‘catalog of educational and teaching
films. Included in the list are all U. S. Govern-
ment 16 mm. sound films and 35 mm. film strips.
These materials were developed by the U. S. Of-
fice of Education, the Navy and War Department,

the Department of Agriculture, and the U. S.
Public Health Service. '

Decatur’s Recreation—.Decatur, Illinois, cele—
brated Recreation Week, March 3-9, 1946. The
celebration was in recognition of “the coming of
age” of recreation in Decatur (the program is 21
years old in 1946); in honor of R. Wayne Gill,
retiring Superintendent of Recreation; a welcome
to Russell J. Foval, the new Superintendent. Dur-

_ing the week there were special programs in all

community centers and gymnasiums—programs to
which the members of the public were cordially
invited to come. _The celebration was climaxed by
a Community Recreation Dinner which was at—
tended by 200 guests.

Conference of Librarians -—-— The sixty-fifth
annual conference of the American Library Asso-
ciation will be held June 16 -June 23 in Buffalo,
New York. The Municipal Auditorium has been
chosen for the meetings and the Conference head-
quarters will be located there. Preliminary esti—
mates forecast an attendance of about 5,000.

The Second Mile Club—Under the direction
of an interested and active board and a voluntary
secretary, the Second Mile Club of Toronto dur—
ing the past eight years has developed a program
which makes it possible for many old people of
varying interests and backgrounds to belong to a
group in which they feel important. ‘ V

This club has headquarters in four clubrooms“;
open from 9:00 A.M. to 9 :00 P.M. daily. The only}
people excluded are the very young and the fully
employed, or persons whose behavior does not con-
form to the members’ self-imposed standards. Club
membership offers opportunities for new friend-

ships, visits between members, and social outings. c
\

RECREATION

 
    

They Speak for Themselves

I the finest petfurmanee . .. ‘ ’ 
under all playing conditions over 53':   .’
the longest period of time. ‘ '

 
 

 

   
   

M In I C I
AIHII‘IIC
INSI'II'III'I

W."J. VOIT RUBBER: CORP.

1600 E. 25th Street, los Angeles ll 0 180 No. Wacker Drive, Chicago 6

  
   
   
 

JUNE 1946

4
-

   
    
   
 
  
 
     

is??? IITG YM MA TS - PADS
ix"   BOXING RINGS

'Q

   

‘4' IRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALI.
* BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT...

designed by experts: made by export-ml win-u Iron
quality materials and cell liner to schools, ecu-pa. off.
Independent, truly wholesale.

' NATIONAL sroars snowmen count"
305 MRQUETTI 0 FORD DU LAO. WIS.

Workshops for Craftsmen—#The Pennsyl—
vania State Planning Board and the Pennsylvania
Guild of Craftsmen have announced a summer ad-
dition to their program of teaching design and
crafts carried on during the winter at the State
Museum Workshop in Philadelphia. Two summer
workshops are planned especially for teachers who

cannot work'with the groups on the winter sched- ,

ule. IA class in weaving for beginners will run
from June IO through June 22. Emphasis will be
upon good design and simple technics. The class
in pottery for beginners is scheduled for the period
July I through July I 3. Here again good design
will be the chief aim of the course. For further
information about the workshops write to Miss
Anne Mueller, State Planning Board, Box 5, Har-
risburg, Pennsylvania.

School Builds Playground for its Handicap-
ped Children—The Mt. Logan School in Chilli-
cothe, Ohio, has built a fence around its new play-
ground for crippled children according to an item
which appeared in the Chillicothe Gazette. The
Gazette reports this as “the first step in a program
which will provide twenty or more handicapped
children of the special classes at that building with
a separate playground where they may play with-
out fear of injury from other, more active chil-
dren.” Installation of the playground is a project
of the Ross County Society for Crippled Children
and is being done without expense to the Board of
Education. The Society expects ,to spend about

$1,000 in the development of the playground.—
The Crippled Child, February 1946.

Recreation Conference—Brantford, Ontario,
recently held a three—day Recreation Conference.
Speakers of note led discussions on Recreation—
Its Meaning, Recreation Facilities, Recreation—
Who Runs It, Recreation Program and Personnel.
There were, in addition to the discussion periods,
demonstrations and displays of crafts, gymnastics,
folk dancing, archery and movies.

WORLD AT PLAY

Story Play Festival—Story play is a feature
of San Francisco’s summer recreation program.
The children act out—no pr0ps, no scenery, no
lights, no make-up—the fairy stories and the folk
tales that they hear. Each summer the program is
climaxed by a Story Play Festival when the play—
grounds vie for honors for the best story play in-
terpretation.

Last year 700 playground children were present

at the Festival. The bulletin of the San Francisco -

Recreation Department comments:

“The children who ‘played audience’ enjoyed
seeing their pals. perform for them and seemed
spellbound throughout the show.

“The hunt for storybook characters throughout
the Grove provided exciting fun as always. Even
an adult would be thrilled to follow one of the
many winding trails and suddenly to come upon
one of the seven dwarfs. The event will furnish
something to chat about for a long, long time.”

Home Play—A game of “Rhythms” can cre-
ate much fun and friendliness. Players sit in two
rows facing each other. They start their rhythm
by '(I) slapping their knees with both hands,
(2') clapping their hands together, (3) snapping
the fingers of one hand. This is done in unison
and the rhythm is kept up throughout the game—
slap, clap, snap; slap, clap, snap. Once the rhythm
is established a designated player at the head of
one line gives the first name of a famous person as

'he,snaps his fingers. The player opposite him

gives the last name on the next snap of the fingers.
The second player in the first line gives another
first name on the 'next snap and the last name is
to be pronounced by the player opposite him. If
any player misses, giving the wrong name, or not
being able to give any name at the next snap of

' the fingers, the play goes‘on to the next person in

the opposite line. A first name or a. corresponding
second name must be given on‘ each snap of the
fingers. Players take regular turns as in a spell-
down. The team wins a point each time the op-
posite side misses on the “snap” 'or says a name at
any other time—From Freedom for Fun, Chicago
Recreation Commission.

f‘l'

Chicago Presents a Radio Program — Every\

Saturday afternoon at 2:30 o’clock, a radio pro—
gram, Your Chicago, is presented by the Chicago
Park District and the Chicago Public Library in
cooperation with radio station WBBM. The broad—
casts feature things to do in leisure time for fun
and profit, and on—the—spot stories.

RECREATION

'l

r

\‘

TOM/.1130 A FULLER LIFE [01

 

I J I . II

Toward a Fuller Life

(Continued from page 152)

Extension Service of the U. S. Department 0"
Agriculture :

“I teach the abundance of the f‘lBld, of flocks and
herds, the orderliness and peace of the home, the beauty
of woods and stream, the 'glory of work and tasks ac—
complished.

“I teach rural youth the ways of free men and
through me life is good and work a song. It is my
privilege to paint the rose among the thorns, the wheat

J among the chaff, and to open wide the door to the
great good earth and rural life so that men may see
and understand.

“1 promote rural organizations, programs of better—
ment on farms and in homes and communities, and
through me youth grows strong, men are developed and
rural life is honored among men.

“I make effective and fruitful the Agricultural Ex-
tension Program of Nation and State in the country-
side. I am known to but a few. I serve without wages
or price; yet my reward is great for I am helping
build a nation.

“I am the local leader of the Agricultural Extension
Service and 4-H Club Work."

TUNE 1946

WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

    

It takes plenty of "know how" to make a
softball for today’s stepped-up play. Wilson
designers and craftsmen have it—as thou-
sands of coaches and players know. That’s
why you see Wilson softballs in preferred use
everywhere. Wilson Sporting Goods Cd,
Chicago, New York and other leading cities.

 

Now .0“ the Press!

wo NEW National Recreation Association pub—

lications are now available. The Proceedings
of the twenty-eighth Recreation Congress of the
National Recreation Association includes tran-
scripts of the talks given at all the general sessions
and summaries of the section meetings held during
the Congress as well as a report on the Industrial
Conference which preceded the general meetings.
The price of the Proceedings is $1.75.

The second publication is titled Enjoying Na—
ture. Prepared by Reynold Carlson, nature spe-
cialist on the staff of the National Recreation As-
sociation, the booklet discusses three developments
which can contribute to the fullest recreative en-
joyment of nature—nature centers, nature trails,
trailside museums. This material will be a valuable
aid to those recreation workers who are concerned
with developing or enlarging a nature program.
The booklet, furthermore, is a pleasure to the eye.
Perky drawings and subject headings printed in
green ink complement the excellent text and il-
lustrations in black and white. The booklet is

priced at 65 cents.

162 STATE PLANNING AGENCIES THINK ABOUT RECREATION

TENNIS NETS

ALL SPORT NETS
o

The reliable headquarters
for ALL NETS is:

W. A. AUGUR, Inc.
New York 7, N. Y.

35 Fulton Street

Educational Authorities
(Continued from page 137)

at, developing good citizenship. Each local league
has a project each year. Among the projects that
local leagues have carried out during the school
year are purchasing schoolroom and playground
equipment and musical instruments of various
kinds, planting trees and shrubs, and making scrap
books for children in hospitals. There is also each
year a state-wide project and an essay contest,
usually on the same subject as the project. The
Young Citizens’ League has legal status—and
State funds—in South Dakota. There are also
State organizations in North Dakota and Colorado
and scattered county chapter leagues in at least
twenty-four States, in Canada, Alaska, and Cen-
tral America. During the years since 1933 the
State appropriation has been quite low, but for this
year the appropriation has been restored to its
former level.

.ru

State Planning Agencies
,Think About Recreation

LANNING FOR RECREATION is now considered
P coequal with planning for other purposes. Real
advances are being made by local communities
with their planning programs, largely through the
cooperation of the State planning agencies. Tech-
nical and planning assistance is being provided
local communities in the making of studies, de-
ve10pment of town or city plans, and in program
development.

The State Act establishing the Wisconsin Plan-
ning Board authorizes the Board to cooperate with
local government units and'agencies in city plan-

 

ning, park and recreation planning and area lay-'
outs, and in town, city, and county zoning. Real
progress is being made, and at last report the
Board was working with about twenty local com-
munities and counties in providing such service.

The first publication of the Indiana Economic
Council was entitled “County Community. For-
ests.” Although the income-producing possibilities
of such forests were stressed there were also many
references to their recreation values.

One study being made by the Planning Board
of the Pennsylvania Department of Commerce
which will have general interest in'many States
concerns the questions of relationships in the vari-
ous States between such agencies as forest, park,
game and fish, and conservation departments.

The “Parish Planning” program in Louisiana is
a little different approach to a. state-wide plan. In '
many States the so-called “Master Plan” is pre-
pared by the State planning agency with the
thought in mind of fitting local developments and
programs into this plan. In Louisiana the reverse
procedure is followed, and each parish (county),
is urged by the Division of Planning of the De-
partment of Public Works to create a local plan-
ning board which will be responsible for making
basic studies on the utilization of local resources
and the development of facilities and services. The
Division of Planning gives advisory and consulta-
tion service to the parish boards. '

In 1945, $4,850,000 was appropriated by the II-
linois Legislature for postwar public works plan-
ning in that State. Money for planning is available
to counties, incorporated cities and villages, public
school districts, and sanitation districts and park
districts. The monies are not available for con-
struction programs but only for planning.

A detailed physical, administrative, and fiscal
plan has been worked out by the New Hampshire
State Planning and Development Commission to
improve the recreation services available now' to
people of that State.

Funds are also available in New Jersey, Michi-
gan, New York, and other States to assist coun-
ties, municipalities, and school boards in financing
the cost of preparing detailed plans for proposed
public works or improvements. The amount of
State aid allotted for any one project usually can-
not exceed one-half of the actual cost of the plans

or 2 percent of the estimated construction cost,
whichever is lower.

RECREATION

THE STATE OF RECREATION IN THE STATE OF VERMONT 163

 

The 'State of Recreation in the

State of Vermont
(Continued from page 156)

The Governor’s Annual Recreation Conference
includes a practical workshOp, and the Conference
in December last year had workshop sessions in
social recreation, arts and crafts, winter sports, as
well as discussions of recreation planning, youth
organizations, recreation in larger communities
and recreation in rural areas.

The shortage of trained water safety instructors
and life guards created a serious problem last sum—
mer. Through the cooperation of the American
Red Cross and local communities 22 young people
representing 12 towns attended National Red
Cross Aquatic Schools and were qualified as in—
structors. But since many communities could not
afford the expense of sending representatives to
the National Aquatic Schools a State Aquatic
Institute of a week’s duration was held at Lake
Champlain with the help of the Red Cross and of
the Burlington Park Department. Thirty—three
young people fro 12 towns attended this institute,

JUNE 1946

This famous H 8: B Oval and the personal
autograph of a famous hitter written on

the barrel end are the quality
found on no other make of bat.

“It’s your assurance
of the finest”—

 

    
 

hall-marks

    
  

  

   

and plans are under way to make" it an annual
event.
Rural Problems and Solutions

In rural Vermont the problem is to keep young
folks happy on the farms and to strengthen their
social life. Distances mean little today and if agri—
cultural communities are to survive, rural recrea-
tion is more important than ever. Rural commu-
nities are being challenged to contrive new means
of increasing the attractiveness of existing facili-
ties and areas or to enlarge them, or even to plan

new ones so that all may have an opportunity for

community recreation.

Two rural institutes are being planned for next
fall. The Director meets during the year with
Grange groups and with 4-H and Future Farmers
of America groups to help with their recreation
programs. I

Two of the questions which frequently confront
the Service relate to teen-age boys and girls and to
living memorials. People want to know what they
can do for their young people. Should they build
a community building? Frequently the Director
has found that there are already plenty of facilities

164 LIVING MEMORIALS I-

 

RECREATION WORKSHOP

JULY l4-20, I946

at College Camp on Lake GenevaI Wisconsin

Techniques of Leadership and SkIIIS“

In

Arts and Crafts. Dramaticsl Music
Social Recreation and Physical Activities

Open +o Volunteers and Professionals
in Public and Private Agencies

and Communities

Sponsored by GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE
Chicago. Illinois

For further information wril'e I'Iarry D. Edgren
Director of Recreation Workshop

George Williams College
Drexel at Fifty-Third Street, Chicago. Illinois

 

in the community if only they could be used. For
example in one community an old hall which had
not been used for twenty years was scrubbed and

eq'uipped by the young people. And another town ,

asked about how to buy an 'old church for a recrea-
tion center. Not only is the church now being used
for recreation but religious services have been re-
vived there. I

. Interest in living memorials is keen throughout
the State. Stowe, with 540 residents, is building
a recreation field (recently referred to by one lady
as the Resurrection Field) for the community War
memorial. Northfield’s field and swimming pool
are under construction with $7,500 raised by less
than 3,000 people. Morrisville, population almost
2,000, just recently voted $75,000 to match a con—
tribution of that amount for a community building.
Woodstock is building a recreation building the
total cost of which was contributed by one of the
local citizens. She-also provided an annunty of
$7,250 for upkeep of the building. And there are
plans in Middlebur’y, Newport, Bennington, and
many others. The Director advises these commu—
nities to call upon some expert before they have
gone too far in their plans.

9

Living Memorials

ANY ORGANIZATIONS are now' planning me—
m'orials to the war dead that will be a fitting
monument to the ideals for which we fought. What
could be more fitting to offset the total destruction
of war than a community workshop dedicated to
constructive, creative work? A real recreation
center for all the family!

Somewhere in this mad race we callprogress,
our ideas of recreation have become badly dis—
torted. The movies, night clubs, ball games and
races at which we are merely spectators—these
are amusements, a' form of escape for many, but
not re—creation. They do not restore us physically
nor feed us spiritually.

And how typical that when confronted with the
problems of youth delinquency, we attempt to solve
it with Youth Centers that provide a dance floor
and a soft drink bar “to keep the youngsters off
the street”—a miniature of our night clubs. “For
what are we preparing them? At an age when

The Recreation Advisory Service has excellent
relations with other State departments interested
in recreation. The Department of National Re—
sources which includes the State park and forest
work in the State is represented on the State Rec-
reation Committee of the Council of Safety; The
State Library has consulted with the Director in
connection with their bookwagons. The Service
gets a great many requests for help from local
school authorities through the Department of Edu—
cation. The Director has aso worked with local
school boards and superintendents in the planning
of the school buildings for community use. The
University of Vermont is planning a program for
training not only students interested in profes—
sional work in recreation but also students with
volunteer interests at heart. ‘

In at least two cities recently, industrial plants
considering those cities specifically asked for in—
formation about the community recreation pro—
grams. In one case the industrial executive said
definitely that he would not have brought his plant
to that city if there had not been a public recrea—
tion program there. In one Vermont city $1,000
was saved laSt summer by having a trained super—
intendent of recreation instead of a number of
political appointees as had been the practice before.
:Vermonters are famous for their thrift. Vermont-
ers appreciate the meaning of facts such as these.

RECREATION

. Ag!“

LIVING MEMORIAL? 165

 

For the Playground

Climbing Devices, Swings, Slides, Gym
Combinations, Merry-Go-Rounds, Basket-
ball Equipment, etc.

THE

RECREATION.

 Outfits, Life Lint-s, Life Guard Chairs,
1‘ Cocoa Matting, etc.

 

For Swimming Pools

Diving Board Outfits, Ladders, Slides,
Pool Cleaning Equipment, Diving Mask

RECREATION EQUIPMENT COMPANY
ANDEBsoN, INDIANA

Playground, Swilnming Pool, and Basketball Equipluent, Bicycle Backs

Modernized and stand- it

IV

ardized equipmen’r‘
which takes into con-
sideration instinctive
play desires. Nature
has implanted these de-
sires in the child in

order to develop the
entire body.

 

The famous
Monkey Jungle

As the name implies, this
climbing device would be
a delight for a monkey,
and surely is a real joy for
sivarnls of happy children,
climbing and swarming
through the maze of the
smooth, rounded, hot galva-
nized steel members. It is
a real jungle, and will af-
ford untold hours of happy
strengthcbuilding fun.

Many other types of
climbing devices
are supplied

Write for free catalog

’

their energies are at their best, their hopes and
I ambitions highest, their need for recognition as a
useful part of society greatest, we offer them
opiates! And those who cannot, or care not to
compete in these perpetual popularity contests,
scheme how to hit back at society that has made no
place for them. - .
We all deplore what has happened to American
family life—the. division of interests -that often

makes members of the same family strangers to ,

each other. And what wonder when from kinder-
garten through college, in church and in clubs we
are segregated according to age, with special inter—
ests and loyalties that have little or no relation to
the family as a whole.

It is our belief that 'a Community Workshop for
the creative arts is as necessary to thecultural
growth, well-being and happiness of the family and
community as are its schools and libraries. . . . a
place where veteran's will have an opportunityto
continue.skills learned while in service, and to
develop new fields of interest: where Dad can try
his hand at some fine cabinet work that he has
I always had a hankering to do, and Mother can

learn to weave those lovely textiles that are so

JUNE 1946

priceless today. Jewelry and pottery making ap-
peal to all ages. Metalwork, printing, photography,
bookbinding . . . the list of things to do for fun
and profit is endless. And usually these activities
will have a direct relation to making home a better
place in which to live.

Aside from the recreational value of a Commu—
nity Workshop, its economic values also are limit-
less. Most people would use these facilities for the
pleasure of making useful and beautiful articles for
themselves, but many would find that skills in the
handcrafts offer a means of income as well. Many
types of home industry could develop from such' a
project, and the community profit greatly by in—
creasing its employment opportunities and its cash
income.

We believe that no other enterprise can serve
so well to cut across all lines of age, race or relig-
ious differences and to cement together the family
and the community into a working whole. What
hope can there possibly be for world 'unity until
we find some unity within ourselves and in our
immediate circle of endeavor P—Amze M aeller. Re-
printed by permission, from Pennsylvania Hand—
crafts, January, 1946.

166 TEACHING FUN BY AIR

1
—
o
r
,
a

   

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outlits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard OHicial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and OEicial
Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

Teaching Fun By Air

Appreciation cannot be taught;
Appreciation cannot be bought;
But if it is sought—

It can be caught.

HERE IT Is—all in the proverbial nutshell. That .

is the reason why Oglebay Institute, Wheeling,
West Virginia, in cooperation with Radio Station
WWVA, devised a new radio series titled, “Fun
'with Music, Books, Pictures, Poems, and Nature.”
The program was sent out over the air waves
every Sunday morning at 9:15 with the h0pe that
the average man or woman who may not have
found or made time to discover that exploring is
fun will find the invitation appealing. It may fol-
low that the listener will try. sleuthing in the
libraries of the artist, the musician, the reader, and
the nature lover, only to discover that he must
have his own library for enjoyment many minutes
-of the day. .

The Program Director of Oglebay Institute saw

the need for such a radio series to originate in the
Institute’s various departments. As far as could be
ascertained there was no similar program being
aired by the networks or locally. The Managing
Director of WVVVA became interested in the idea
and not only aided in the planning of the series
but put his promotion department into action f01
newspaper stories and window displays. A brochure
was prepared by the Institute and sent to a mailing
list of several thousands.

Further plans for the series provided lists oi
reading material to be mailed to those listeners
who wished additional information. These supple-
mentary lists were supplied by the Ohio County
Public Library. An open house was held at the
Oglebay Institute Downtown Center with the com-
mentators conducting summations of their ma-
terial, answering questions, and ascertaining of
what further use these “Fun” programs can be.

The Guides —the commentators on the pro-
grams—were people who have devoted consider-
able time to exploring their special fields and have
found such enjoyment in so doing that they want
to share with others.

Titles of broadcasts were made as appealing as

possible and included such scheduled topics as:

“Why Dark-Keys Were Born,” “The Call of the
Wild,” “A Little Nonsense Now and Then,”
“Right in the Beginning,” and “Gold Is Where
You Find It.” These titles were meant to arouse
the curious.

Believing that the average man likes music,
poetry, books, nature, and pictures and responds
to beauty in any form, we wanted to carry him
further along in these fields. There is much beau-
tiful music that does not need explanation or trans-
lation to be understood and enjoyed. Simply to
hear it is all that is necessary. The same is true in
other fields into which these broadcasts ourneyed.
The programs were designed to make it ' pos-
sible for the average man to “hear.” The brochure
announcing the series concluded with the follow—
ing quotation: '

“A man should hear a little music, read a little
poetry, and see a fine picture every day of his life, 
in order that worldly cares may not obliterate the 

sense of the beautiful which God has implanted in the ’
human soul.”

The series began on Sunday morning, January
6, with a program entitled, “Tuning Up,” and
ended on Sunday, 'May 26, with “The Call of the

Wild.” ,-
RECREATION

INDIANA PARK EXECUTIVES LEARN MORE ABOUT RECREATION 167

 
  
  
 
   

Indiana ‘Park Executives    j  q  . 7
.Learn More About Recrea-  
.Ition on State Park Campus .. . a .

ECREATon PLAYED an important part in Indi—
‘ Rana’s first training institute for state and mu-
g: nicipal park executives. Recreation sessions were
 held in Canyon Inn, McCormicks Creek State ., ’ i
_ Park, Spencer, Indiana (Institute Headquarters) ’ -

 
 

The Institute was sponsored by the State Park
. Division of the Indiana Conservation Department,
»' IndianatUniversity, and the Indiana Park and
' RecreationAssociation and held at McCormicks
Creek State Park from March II to 22. Eighty-

i five persons participated in the Institute. M o r e T I m e

- The recreation session on the University campus f T h °
was opened to the students of Indiana University.   
; The agenda consisted of: “Recreation in State

:' Parks,” Garrrett G. Eppley, Indiana University; . E S S e n 1- | a I
‘ “Municipal Recreation Program,” R. B. McClin-

tock, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation,  a 1' h e r C r a fi-

Fort Wayne; “School Recreation,” James Cono-

ver, Director of Physical Education and Recrea— T e C h n i c 5

tion, Terre Haute; and a Forum Discussion led
by K. Mark Cowen, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, Indianapolis. Recreation topics discussed at ,
the State Park were: “Water Activities,” Leo Pro-lea Kits you concentrate
Sanders, Director of Water Activities for the Di- I on teaching the important
vision of State Parks; “Naturalist Service,” Sidney
R. Esten, Chief Naturalist for the Division of

State Parks; “Camping,” Miss Stella Hartman,
Secretary of the Indiana Section of the American' leather Pieces P113615“on cut—

Camping Association, Indianapolis Council of no time wasting preliminary
Social Agencies; and “Training for Leadership,” "

Professor George E. Schlafer, Indiana University.

With Hortoncraft Leather

technics of design through

tooling and coloring. All

steps required. Belt and Bill-

fold illustrated only two of

The Institute was opened with an address of . many practical ProjeCtS again

'welcome by Robert F. Wirsching, State Park Di- available Send for FREE
rector, followed by an account of the park move- , .. -
ment by L. H. Weir of the National Recreation Pro-lea handbOOk tOda3"

Association.

Tentative plans for next year are to hold the H o R T o N c R A F T

' Institute in the late fall or winter months, limit the

time to five days, and open the enrollment to park Dept' R'6
executives living outside the state—Garrett G.  106 Ann Street
' Eppley' Hartford 3, Conn.

j JUNE 1946

168 EDUCATION HAS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR RECREATION

Education Has Responsibi-

lities for Recreation

By JULIAN W. SMITH
Chief of Health. Physical Education and

Recreation Proiect
Michigan Department of Public Instruction

HE DEPARTMENT of Public Instruction in

Michigan has a keen interest in recreation.
This. year we have an experimental division known
as Health, Physical Education, Recreation, School
Camping, and Outdoor Education. This division
is attempting to encourage schools to make use of
all these broad areas in education for the health
and fitness of young people. Specific attention is
being. given to assist schools in developing the
educational aspects of recreation. Special emphasis
is placed on school camping, whereby camping be—
comes- a part of the total school program and is
'made available to all the children.

It goes without saying that each individual
State has a different pattern for recreation, and we
can't impose any one pattern on all States. Many
Of our State Departments of Education have divi-
.sions for health, physical education, and recrea-
tion, but most of the emphasis has been on physi—
cal education. We educators had better get our
heads out of the sand, as far as recreation is con-
cerned, because education does have a major role
with certain definite responsibilities.

Teaching Skills and Attitudes

This should include a wide range of skills, in-
«cluding dramatics, athletics, sports, games. out—
door activities, and the like. We have tended to
emphasize mainly the physical activities. As an

illustration, I would like to refer to a recent meet- I

.ing of the secondary school principals of .our State.
.Several of them felt that the Opening Of the hunt-
:ing and fishing seasons was a serious problem and
'that the Department of Conservation should set
the opening date on a week end. The problem
arises because a lot of the boys want to go hunting
and fishing and the schools do not know how to
handle it. Following this line of reasoning, we
would fill the woods with young boys and adult
hunters over the week- end so that we could brush
off a problem administratively. A million people in
our State buy hunting and fishing licenses, which
means that that many young people eventually will
be interested in that form Of outdoor education.

Isn’t that just as important as football? Why' do
we ignore that kind of recreation in a boy’s life
and have-very intensive training in athletics? We
must accept responsibility for a broad program Of
recreation interests. Incidentally, the Department
of Conservation and the Department of Public In—
struction in our State are contemplating the publi-
cation of a little booklet about hunting and fishing
as a part ,Of outdoor education and recreation.
This is just as important as some Of the other

things we do in education.

' The schools should cooperate with other com-
munity agencies in developing recreation proe
grams. All the agencies concerned must join ef-
forts. In our Department, we get calls from com-
munities that want to organize a recreation pro—
gram. W e go out in teams with people from the
Youth Guidance Commission, Michigan Recreation
Association, and whenever possible, someone from
the National Recreation Association.

Responsibilities

The school has the responsibility for planning
and developing school buildings and playgrounds
for recreation. The Department of Education must
approve the building plans in our State. It has the
authority to disapprove those which do not meet
the recreation needs of the whole community. We
must put more emphasis upon school buildings that
are designed for community activities.

The school has a responsibility for leadership in
recreation. In Michigan there are approximately
700 high schools that present some form of a com
munity center. Probably I00 of these will have
joint programs sponsored by the board of educa—

'tion and the village or city council, but the other

600 are not likely to develop adequate programs
unless the schools show some initiative and leader-
ship, because they are, for the large part, in rural
areas. If a school has some facilities to start with,
and if one or more teachers on the staff have had
some training, it is the responsibility of the schdol
to assume leadership. That doesn’t mean that the
school is solely responsible, because, again, there
must be cooperation of all the agencies. We have
to urge education leaders to accept this responsi-
bility and insist that recreation is one of the func-
tions of education. At the State level, we must get
together. We are planning to call together repre-
sentatives from the Department of Conser'Vation,
the Department of .Public Instruction; the Youth
Guidance Commission, and the State Planning

~ (Continued on page 174)
RECREATION

\‘

 

 

RECREATION IN NELV YORK 169

   
 

 

wo-WA now

No PIN-BOYS REQUIRED!“

LING
 . ,

  

  

  

NO INSTALLATION COST 0 BOWL FROM BOTH ENDS o 23 FEET OF BOWLING TRILLS

The newest and most popular game . . . played throughout the nation: Recreation
Centers, Hotels, Y’s and Clubs, Schools and Colleges, Boys’ Clubs, Camps and Resorts,
Gymnasiums, Community Centers, "Hospitals, Fraternal Organizations, Taverns, Amuse-

ment Parks, etc. PORTABLE!

9

ORDERS AND FURTHER INFORMATION
(DEPT. “R")‘

*Two-WAY BoWLING CORP.*

“4 EAST 32nd STREET 0 Telephone LExing’ron 2-8828 0 NEW YORK I6, N. Y.

(Patent No. 2247 769)

 

Recreation in New York

Extracts From Governor Dewey's I946
"Report to the People"

' THERE IS NO SINGLE ACTIVITY of the State which

contributes so much pure happiness to the lives
of its peOpIe as the great beaches, the State parks,
the forests, the trout streams and the lakes in tlie
summer and the ski'runs and bob-sled runs in the
winter. '

Manyof our people don’t realize it, but there is
no State in the Union where the peOpIe can be as
healthy and'as happy in the enjoyment of almost
every conceivable kind of outdoor exercise and
sport. Certainly thereis no other, State which has
miles of wonderful beaches on the ocean, majestic

. JUNE 1946

mountains,.1akes and rivers, and two of the Great
Lakes.

More than a million and a half of our young men
and women have been away at war. It is my hope
that when our program is completed they will have
opportunities for outdoor recreation unequalled by
any place in the world.

That means a tremendous expansion. Three
years of planning have gone into this program and
twenty million dollars from the Reconstruction
Fund for the building of new camp sites, for de-
ve10ping new fish hatcheries and game preserves.
and adding and developing more than 3 50 miles of
additional trout streams. New York is going to be
a happier and a healthier State to live in when this
program is completed.

170 THE PARKS OF THE NATIONAL CAPITAL

The Parks of the National
CapHaI

HE PARKS of W ashington, D. C., play no minor
Tpart in making that small plot of Federal prop-
erty known as the District of Columbia a lode-
stone for hundreds of thousands of visitors each
year from the forty-eight states of the U.S.A. and
the four corners of the earth. There are 730 reser-
vations for parks in the District and its environs——
730 parks covering 12,500 acres of land. Three
. of them——the Mall, the Capitol ground, the Presi-

dent’s Park which includes the White House
grounds, contributed to the dream that ’Was
dreamed on paper by the Frenchman Pierre
Charles L’Enfant when he laid out the plan for the
Capital of the United States over 200 years ago.
The others have been added through the years as
the growth of that Capital kept pace with the
growing of the country which it served.

To those thousands of visitors who come each
year to the city the parks are a source of pleasure
to the eye. To the other thousands of people, citi-
zens of many states and many nations, to whom
Washington is “home” the _parks are that and
something more. ‘

Places for Play

The National Capital Parks are operated as a
unit of the National Park Service. Under that
operation they have become places where the peo-
ple of Washington may “walk abroad and recreate
themselves”, The recreation facilities provided are
legion. There are few forms of outdoor activity
which cannot be enjoyed in one or another of the
parks. Here, specifically, are some of the things
you may do in the National Capital Parks.

You may take part in team sports—‘—baseball or
basketball, field hockey or football, volley ball or
soccer. You may ride horses or pitch horseshoes,
play marbles or croquet or golf, polo or paddle
tennis or regular tennis. If your taste runs to the
water you may race a boat or row one, swim,
wade, fish. You may try your hand at archery,
plan a picnic, play in the sand, skate—roller or ice
—see an outdoor play, listen to a symphony in an
out-of—doors concert shell, take your children to
the playground, or have a cup of tea.

For the Nature Enthusiast

Nor is this all. Let us suppose that nature is
your hobby. For you the parks are full of treasure

trove. Take trees. The position of each tree in
each park together with its name is plotted on a
map which may be had for the asking. The map
of the trees and shrubs in Lafayette Park, for ex:
ample, is 18 x 11 inches. On the reverse side there
is a brief note about each tree whose name appears
on the face of the map. These notes give factual

information about the tree, its origin, and its uses.
In general there are few scientific terms used in

the descriptions. Those that are used are e29,
plained and illustrated.

A study aid has been worked out for birds in
the form of a check list. The list of birds that may
be seen in \Nashington is arranged in alphabetical
order. Names of resident birds are written in
capital letters. The names of birds that nest in the
vicinity are followed by the number of the month
in which they customarily begin nesting. There is ?
a Space for the checker to indicate the date a bird
was seen, and the months when the birds may
normally be expected in Washington are checked.

Informal Nature Program

The nature enthusiast does not have to proceed
without guidance. There are three full-time nat-
uralists, two part-time naturalists (Saturdays and
Sundays), two historians, one botanist and many
volunteers—hobbyists of one aspect of nature or
another—who are on hand to conduct groups on
nature walks. Lectures on nature are given in
school assemblies, and there are classes in nature
guidance for adults and children. The naturalists,
too, work closely with the Department of Recrea-
tion in its excellent day camp—only one feature, I
by the way of Washington’s Recreation Depart-
ment’s fine program.

A State University Serves the American

People's Theater
(Continued from page 145)

Potentially there is much work to be done in ‘,
developing this great field of creative art among '
the people. The future of this people’s theater isl
very much tied up with the availability of such?
services as those mentioned in this article. Ouri
State universities are the logical agencies to oner__

these services.

 

 

Did you know that, according to a report, the _
State of Minnesota has 11,007 beautiful lakes? i

RECREATION

RECREATION AND STATE YOUTH COMMISSIONS 171

  
   

' ‘ Recreationand State Youth
Commissions

EVERAL STATES at the present time have de-
S veloped State Youth Commissions or Authori-
ties. These States are recognizing in these com-
missions and authorities the part that recreation
plays in the lives of young people. Each State is
making a different approach. Fundamental to all
of the agencies is an attempt to do something about
ifdelinquency. Recreation is one of the positive
factors that all are emphasizing. Most active of
these States are California, Michigan, and New

, York.

3 | The California Youth Authority, established in
1941, has a Recreation Consultant serving on a
full-time basis. In response to requests he gave

 

. , . . . SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, b Ch I . . . . . . . . .-
consultant serv1ce to public and private organiza- PENCIL DRAWING, by ebzriesaéaiisocrIilfi? . . . . . . ..si.iiii
. . . . . - - - - SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson. . .. 1.00
. thHS and t0 lHleldualS In Slxty'rllne communltles FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Young_ . . _ . 1.00
- _ - CLAY MODELING, by R. R. Fiore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00
m a recent ten month PerlOd- WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Charles Carlson. . . . 1.00
' _ OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
' ' ' ' ' PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES, byCharlotte H.Young 1.00
, The Mthlgan YOUth Guldance Commlssmn was FIGURE DRAWING WITIIOUTA MODEL, byClifEYOung 1.00
' . “ ' ° ° ° BUSINESS OF CARTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike... 1.00
*‘Created m 1945 to prOmOte_C0ndlt10nS Sogducwe WORKING IN LEATHER, by Margaret Ickis . . . . . . .. 1.00
to youth development; to assist local authorities in PRACTICAL "0MB DECORATING, by Elem" Le“ -' 1'00
problems affecting youth; and to assist agencies H O U S E O F I. I T T I. E B O O K S
concerned with youth through apprOpriate encour- 30 East ll’rh Street New York. N- Y-

9

'_ agement and activities.’ The Commission has a
’budget of more than $7 5,000 for the biennium end-
Iing July I, 1947. About 75 percent of the re-
quests for help that the Commission receives have
' ito do with recreation. Requests for help are fre—
quently referred to recreation executives in nearby
-. cities. A pamphlet entitled “Getting Started in
.Community Recreation,” has been published to_
help communities organize recreation programs.
The Commission has had the cooperation of the

youth centers. The recommendations came as the
result of a questionnaire survey of the State to
determine among other things the recreation op-
. portunities and needs of the young people. Of fifty—
eight who replied to the question about presence
or absence of an organized recreation program,
forty-six replied that in their counties no such

organized program exists.

' Michigan} Recreatiofl Association’ the Repartmfmt The New York. State Youth Commission was
of Pubhc Insfructloni ajnd the ,Mlchlgajn ngh established in 1945 on a temporary basis on the
I. School Athletic Association. Ill-18 working With recommendatio'n of the Governor’s Interdemrt-
l over 200 youth guldance ,CF’mm‘ttees throughout mental Committee on Delinquency. The Commis—
the State to help commumtles attack some Of the sion can give State aid to municipalities for youth
, prOblemS Of'you‘ng people‘ bureaus and for education and recreation projects.
In 1944 the Kentucky General Assembly estab— A city, town, or village may receive one-half the
... lished the Kentucky Youth Guidance Commission. entire amount of the expenditures for a recreation
I' In the recommendations which the Commission project provided the aggregate amount of State
imade to the Governor in December 1945 there aid to any municipality shall not exceed $250 per
.were two directly involving recreation. One called annum for each 1,000 children. Municipalities,
pfor a state-wide recreation program as soon as however, with less than 4,000 Children Can be
' possible. The other suggested that the State Rec- granted $1,000 per annum. This State aid is for
reation Committee prepare data to be used by com- new projects to supplement existing projects. Ap—
munities in establishing and operating a general proximately $800,000 is available for the State aid
I recreation program and such special activities as program for the period ending July I, 1947.

I JUNE 1946

172 PLANNING‘AND FINANCING OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS

MAJIJHINB IN MINDHITIES

How WELL no YOU KNOW your neighbors? Do you
know the day by day problems of minority groups
living together in a democracy? Are you at home
with people of other races and nationalities than
your own? Do you know about their holidays?

Here are four pamphlets to use as a basis for dis-
cussion around the campfire and a playlet for teen-
agers revcaling the scientific fact that there is no
difference between White and Negro blood.

The Core of America's Race Problem .10
Dorothy I. Height

Personal Adventures in Race Relations .l5
Esther Popel Shaw

Blood Doesn't Tell—a playlet. . . . .-. . .lO
Elsie Austin

At Home—With People . . . . . . . . . . .25
Edited by Elise F. Moller

Jewish Holidays—DoYou KnowThem? . l 5
' Elise F. Moller

THE WOMAN'S PRESS
600 Lexington Avenuel New York 22, N. Y.

 

Planning and Financing of ‘
School Buildings '

HE NEW CONCEPTION of adult study calls for a

new type of school building, declared Dr. En-
glehardt of the New York City Board of Educa-
tion in his opening remarks. The auditorium should
be planned in terms of democratic principles—“for
example, no balcony, so that all will be on one
level, and auxiliary space around the stage to en-
courage participation in activities. Classrooms
should be planned for duplicate use, by pupils and
adults. Dr. Englehardt believes. the day is coming
when laboratories will replace classrooms for all
school subjects.

State building costs were discussed by John
Marshall of the West Virginia Board of Educa-
tion, who said that standards should outline definite
objectives rather than prescribe exactly how the

objectives are to be achieved. Architects welcome .

information but resent too specific limitations in
planning and construction.

Mr. Nichols, an architect, formerly with the
Connecticut State Department of Education, dis-

cussed building costs and probable cost trends.
Bid prices, he pointed out, have risen 60 to 80
percent over 1939 prices, and the situation is so
uncertain that most contractors will bid today only
on a cost—plus basis, because they cannot estimate
future material or labor costs. His firm and many
others are advising school authorities against build~
ing for at least another year. Construction costs,
said Mr. Nichols, have risen much more than com-
modity prices. Building costs are I 30 percent
higher today than in 1914, whereas general prices
are only 40 percent higher. He estimates that when
conditions become adjusted costs are likely to be
30 percent above the 1939 level.

A'representative of the New York State De-
partment of Education considered costs from a
different angle. Speaking of low interest rates on
bonds, he said that some cities have recently sold
school bonds for rates as low as I percent. Even
though building costs have increased appreciably,
because of the drop in interest rates on bonds the
total cost of iinancing a new school building repre-
sents. only a very slight increase.

An OPA official announced that the GPA is
putting dollars and cents prices on building ma-
terials, equipment, furnishingsand construction,
including services such .as roofing, electrical work,
and masonry work, as part of a program to keep
down building costs—Regional Conference of the
American Association of School Administrators,
New York City, March 5, 1946.

Recreation Institute

ECREATION—Play that PVorles in Public Rela~

tions is the theme of the Professional Rela-.

tions Institute at La Crosse Teachers College on
June 19 and 20, 1946.

The purpose of this Institute, the third of its
kind to be held at La Crosse, is to promote better
understanding between schools and the public.
Representatives from labor, farms, business, in-
dustry and the professions will discuss. the ques-
tions, “Where Are the \Veak Spots in Our
Schools?” A puppet show will portray the way
one school has answered the criticism of its public.

Outstanding speakers from this and other States
will point out the ways in which the schools and
the public can work together to solve their com-
mon problems. “Play That Works and Work
That Plays” will be the subject of a series of work-
shops to be held during the afternoon. Students
in attendance and the public will learn 110w to

RECREATION

TENNESSEE BLAZES A NEW TRAIL FOR CAMP LEADERS 173

further their own recreational interests in fields of
art, dramatics, social recreation and music. The

afternoon meetings will form the basis of an eve-'

ning’s prOgram which will fuse the four fields and
point out their connection with good'public and

professional relations. , I
This two-day meeting will be_ of .special inter-

est to teachers and recreation leaders everywhere '

in .both rural and urban areas, since new aspects of
recreation and public relations will be demon-

strated.

Tennessee Blazes a New Trail for
Camp Leaders

(Continued from page 141)

At four one unit goes on a hike and. cookout to
Fall Creek Falls with Mr. Carlson and Dr. May-
field. The group will come back by moonlight to
be home for taps. The hike is a nature field trip,
with trees and birds occupying the attention of the
hikers. The flame azaleas are blooming near the
falls and everybody wants to see them.

The other two units are down at the swimming
dock for a swim and instruction in water safety by
Mr. Lepich. Some wish to learn to paddle the
canoe and, after instruction, paddle upstream.

Following dinner the two units. left in camp
adjourn to the lodge for square dancing under the
leadership of Mr. Colby. At ten the day’s activi—
ties are over.

Success Story?

Each day'is different, and all students have a
chance to attain skills in a great variety of activi~
ties, skills in leadership that will be transferred to
the camp program of the coming summer.

Has this camp leadership training succeeded?
A visit to the various camps in operation in Ten-
nessee last summer shoWed the, influence of the
training course. Even during the fall and winter
months the effects continued, as leaders of clubs
and groups used their new ideas and abilities.

The Conservation Division of the State of Ten-
nessee has felt this training program to be ex-
tremely worth while and hopes in future years to
continue this cooperative training effort.

The North Carolina Recreation

Commission
(Continued from page 143)

Our Commission voted to put on a ten—year
training program. We are stressing two things this

JUNE 1945

RAMUc

Trade-Marl Reg. U. 5. Patent OHice
AMERICA’S NO. l SWIMMING POOL ENAMEL

'l'wo indispensable products for
swimming pools to insure Maximum
Beauty, Visibility and Protection:

RAMUC Enamel imparts a tile-like,
easy-to-clean finish which does

not chip, crack or peel. Applied
like paint.

EXALGAE prevents algae growth
in pools. Economical and easy to
use. Keeps water sparklingly
clear at all times.

For complete information, write to

INERTOL CO., INC. - DEPT.R

A70 FRELINGHUYSEN AVENUE
NEWARK 5, NEW JERSEY

Western Branch:
64 South Park, San Francisco 7, Calit.

EXAlGAE

Trade-Marl Reg. U. 5. Patent Oflice

A NEW, SAFE, EFFECTIVE ALGAECIDE

 

year: nature and nature crafts, led by Reynold
Carlson of the National Recreation Association,
and social recreation, led by specialists in that
field. These institutes are being held in four areas
covering the entire State. N ext year we hope to
specialize in music.

We are working now on a cooperative plan
whereby the local recreation commission and the
local school board can share in the use of school
grounds and buildings.

\Ve receive questions by the hundreds. \V e try
to answer them all. If we can’t answer the ques-
tions we send them to the National Recreation As—
sociation, and if they can’t answer them they are
unanswerable.

\‘Vhat I have been telling you concerns North
Carolina. \Vhat we are doing may not be possible
in other States. In other States maybe the leader-
ship should be taken by the Department of Edu~
cation'or the State Park Commission or some
other State agency. I have given you some picture
of the way we have approached the problems in
North Carolina.

174 FOOD STILL FIGHTS FOR FREEDOM

A State Planning Board Plans for

Recreation
(Continued from page 150)

attention in the communities toward the need for
recreation, and they are also attempting to see
that the public funds that are to be spent are de-
voted, as far as is reasonable, to enlarging recrea-
tion facilities on a State—wide basis.

work in the rural areas is limited by lack of
personnel. We have 3,300,000 rural people in
Pennsylvania, and that means that each extension
worker has, on the average, to look after the needs
of 50,000 people. This limits the worker’s recrea—
tion activity, it seems to me, to stimulating a local
demand for facilities that are provided for under
the State school laws. Far more than that is
needed, particularly instruction in home arts and
crafts which could provide more outlets for the
creative urge and more satisfaction for both young

and old in rural living.

There are other State agencies—the Depart-
ments of Welfare, of Health, and of Public In—
struction—whose concern with public recreation
cannot be covered in so brief a survey, The prob-
lems in all cases are much the same—to stimulate
and aid the local development of programs suited
to each community’s needs, and on the State level
to balance the needs. of a large urban and a large
agricultural population.

 

 

Educatioh Has Responsibilities

for Recreation
(Continued from page 168)

Commission to develop a State policy where each
one will say, “This is our responsibility,” and sec—
ondly, “This is how we propose to work together.”

' La me mentionone other area of recreation—
school camping. Camping is bound to become a
part of the school program. Boys and girls will go
to camp sometime during the school year and
stay for two weeks or more. This will be a part of
the regular educational program and not simply a
summer vacation. It has great implications for
health and recreation, particularly in the develop-
ment of outdoor skills and appreciations- Let us
not overlook such-opportunities which will take
our youth into the great out-of-doors and help
develop a more wholesome type of living.

Food Still Fights for
Freedom

HE WAR IS OVER. But, in many places, the free-

doms for which the war was fought are still to
be won. For freedom, in the phrase of Stephen
Vincent Benet, is “a hard bought thing.” Food
can still light for freedom—for the freedoms from
want and from fear. Youngsters on the play-
grounds of the United States can, in this summer
of 1946, help in this hght as they helped during
the war years with salvage and war savings pro-
grams.

Food can.be a weapon. Like any gun or bOmb it
is available alike to men of good or evil will.
Hunger fought for Hitler. Hunger can provide
the cue to bring freedom out from her place in the
wings onto the stage.

It is our “meet, right and our bounden duty” to
send whatever part is needed of the fruits of our
earth to help feed those people of the world who
are hungry. Famine will walk with 500,000,000
people this summer and the threat of famine will
dog their footsteps in the winter ahead unless food
comes from somewhere. We are called upon to
make some minor sacrifices to provide some of that
food. Here is what the Famine Emergency Com-
mittee asks us to do.

Don’t waste bread. The one slice in every loaf .that
now finds its way into the garbage pail will save thou-
sands of lives.

Substitute potatoes and oat cereal for bread and
wheat cereal whenever possible. Eat less bread.

‘ Don’t serve ANY pastry or cake for desserts. Fruit
and other sweets can take their place. Flour that now,
goes into pastry and cakes must .go to relieve famine or

to makf: bread.

Don’t throw away meat drippings. Use them for
cooking and seasoning.

Eat less fried foods.

Render excess fat from meats. Use it for cooking as
long as you can. Turn it in to your butcher or your
grocer when you can use it no longer.

Don’t use any more salad dressings or salad oils than
you absolutely need.

We can hardly do less than these things. We
could and should do more—much more. Here are
a few suggestions:

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 175

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
2 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker l

 

MAGAZINES

Survey Midmonthly, April 1946 “

Bridging the Gap, David Danzi-g

You Cannot Demobilize Old Peeple, George Lawton
Meet Yourself at Sixty-Five, Margaret W. \Vagner
Life Begins at Forty Plus, Kathleen Gorrie

Holiday, May 1946

Now We Are Twelve
Space for Play, Harold Ickes

Dime Bank Odyssey, Carl L. Biemiller

Parents’ Magazine, May 1946

Everyone Plays in Our Yard, Marian’ Prentiss and
Katharine H. Read '

Beach and Pool, April 1946

'Standardized Swimming Pools, Capt. T. W. Shefheld
California’s Beach DeveIOpment Program

Scholastic Coach, April 1946 i
. . . . Ami Then There“Were 9, Arthur T. Noren

The American City, April 1946

A Caution Concerning Civic Centers, Herbert W.
Stevens

The Park Arboretum as a Living War Memorial,
Donald Wyman

How a Small City Swimming Pool Might Be Fi-
nanced, Martin Stern

A Quarter Century of County Parks, W. Richmond
Tracy

PAMPHLETS

Recreation Survey and Long~Range Plan, City of Nor-
folk, Virginia

Prepared for Norfolk City Council and Recreation
Commission, Norfolk, Virginia

Recreation (Occupational Abstract No. 90)

One of a series on occupations in which postwar
employment prospects are favorable. Occupational
Index, Inc., New York University, Washington
Square, New York 3, N. Y. Single copies $1.25

 

 

Patronize those restaurants that are actively cooper-
ating in the government’s request for conservation.

' Tell your grocer in advance your basic Ibread needs
for the week so that he can order accordingly.

Write to the Secretary of Agriculture in Support of
the government program for wheat conservation.

Help organize your community -for saving food.

Talk about the need and explain the manner of help-
ing sa‘ve food whenever you possibly can.

Practice 'what you preach!

JUNE 1946

   

  

The complete book

of games and stunts
For all ages '

and all

occasions

        
  

Margaret. E. M ulac

More than 600 games and hundreds
of game ideas for parties and special
events brought together in one help-
ful volume, designed especially for
parents, recreation leaders, camp di-
rectors, teachers and program chair-
men. The directions are clear and
simply worded. The text is well
illustrated with numerous helpful
drawings and diagrams.

-Read it IO clays FREE

1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
3
0‘)
m
z
U
z
0
I
O
z
m
'S
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

‘HARPER o BROTHERS, 537 Madison Ave., N. v. 22

Send me THE GAME BOOK. for 10 days’ free ex-
amination. At the end 01: that time I will either return
book to you and owe nothing or I will remit $2.50, pins

mailing charges.

Home

Address
City___—______.__ Zone No

 

---------------------1

State 6002A !
III-II-I-I—IIIII-I-I-I-I-Inm-Iu-Im-“-

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

. Children .and Literature

Association for Childhood Education, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N .W., Washington 6, D. C. $.50.

IN THE 36 PAGES of' this booklet the Association for

Childhood Education has brought together repOrts Of
activities in many aspects Of literature for children. The
uses Of literature with and for children are considered in
relation to the school and the community. Attention is
given specifically to the roles of the classroom and the
classroom teacher, the home and the parent, the chil-
dren’s book shOp, the library, the children’s theater, and
recordings of children’s books for phonograph and trans-
cription. Children and Literature is full of practical
suggestions that_may ibe readily adapted to all kinds Of
recreation programs, that have been tested with children
and that are reported with authority. Recommended.

The Game Book

BEQMargaret Mulac. Harper and Brothers, New York.
_.50.

N THE FOREWORD to The Game Book the author lists

the kinds of play needs for a well rounded person.
People need sports for healthy bodies; mental play for
keen minds; music, drama and the arts for the satisfaction
of the soul; the out—Of-doors to underline our kinship
with the natural world; social play—picnics, parties and
dances. Miss Mulac’s hook is designed to bring together
many suggestions for the satisfaction of each of these
needs. In addition the book has material for special oc-
casions and for special groups of peOple including the
handicapped and the convalescent.

The illustrations and diagrams which are included
where they are needed are clear and helpful. The type
is easy to read and the paper and binding are wear-
worthy. The Game Book is recommended for any recre-
ation library whether it be in the home, the club, the
school, the recreation center or playground.

§

Radio's Second ,Chance

Byéfslaarles S. Siepmann. Atlantic, Little Brown, Boston.

RADIO, HIT Is GENERALLY CONCEDED, is a power in the land.

Its critics and its apologists are very likely to quarrel
.about how that power is being used. In the meantime the
public, by whose license (through the medium of the
Federal Communications Commission) station owners
operate, remains, for the most part, silent. The author of
Radio’s Second Chance analyzes the radio industry in the
light of “the public interest, convenience and necessity”
and presents some indictments of all parties concerned—
the networks, the local stations, the F.C.C. and, 'by im—
plication at least, the public itself. He presents, too,
suggestions for radio’s future, especially for the seizing
of the second. chance which Frequency Modulation will
bring. This is a ‘book which speaks to everyone who is
concerned with the- means of communication, a 'book

176

F p

which should be “read, marked, learned and inwardly

digested” by anyone who is concerned in any degree with
“public relations.”

Otticial Track and Field Guide

Edited by Kenneth'L. Wilson. A. S. Barnes and Co.,
New York. $.50.

HE 1946 OFFICIAL TRACK AND FIELD GUIDE is now

ready. In addition to the official National Collegiate
Athletic Association Rules of Track and Field Athletics
and the customary lists of data on championship meets
the booklet contains short articles On various phases of
the track and field picture including a note on the 1948
Olympic Games by Avery Bru11dage, President, United
States Olympic Association.

Proceedings of the Eleventh Annual

Chicago Recreation Conference,

Lecture Reporting Service, 166 \V. Jackson Boulevard,
Chicago 4, Illinois.

IN NOVEMBER the Chicago Recreation Commission, with

the COOperation of 151 civic and service organizations,
held the eleventh of the annual Chicago Recreation Con-
ferences. The report of the meetings is now available.
The full reports of talks and panel discussions are valu-
able not only to people in the Chicago area but also to
recreation workers everywhere.

Care for Your Kitten

By Margaret F. Atkinson. Greenberg: Publisher, New
York. $1.50.

HIS BOOK OF DIRECTIONS on the care of kittens is writ-
ten and illustrated for children. It gives good advice
On feeding, bedding and playing with kittens.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass. .
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, W'est Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, “'ash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscon, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. Juan D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, I\. Y .

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind. ‘

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.'

OTTO T. M_ALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLI KEN, Augusta, Me. .
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. VVINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY \VOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

