RECEATIN

 

November 1947

e *-

 

Wol. XLI. No. 8 Price 35 Confs

 

a .
.‘ 'L‘ . I " fr

 

I.

November-1947 3  "
z 5' I  i ,I , I I-.-.' i I i."
'MrsrThoinas A. Edison—rAn‘IEditorial. . 361

In
.3 r

an a
d I

- -.-   I." 01“... '0 quo I d: I o o :3;  I) I.

Personnel Standards fdr‘RecIreation'i.’ '.-,-I:'a".

. Wofkers, bx-IIHoward Brau'ché'l: I364I 

m-

Decatur Picture-gtbry‘,i .  .- .
.133“ Graham Andrews ..-.......-. : - - .- 36.5

- ' ' °.“' -.'-'1T"’.-""."'_f ."_ 5.x;- “r! -:-  2., «I
Preparation-Tor Rlecneatton-fLeadership,  g

I FRONTISPIECE—A .
community Christmas .'
concert held before a
reproduction of the fa-
mous painting “Adora-

tion of the Child” which
was hung from the top
of the courthouse in
Salisbury, Maryland.
Story on page 373.

 

\ .

.- Random: Comment on Square Dancing. 386

'  Allentown Popularizes. Opera,  ‘ '  “'  
-‘ -.' . I'u — ' '
by  DO  o o a o I I I o o I  o o o I. If... 
- - - : . . I I tire ' - , g 9 8;
Recreation Worker Dies. . .4. .-'*. . .   . *"388 v

't‘

o
. ‘I\

. Recreation Goes Forward. . . .' . .  . . . . 384 I

  

.I A-‘Simple Formula, by Ralph C. ITIaonr.‘ 389 '

" ->"7hy"-V'C. a: warms-sue -: '. -. . . .. *3685"  sPettitv   ---- -  390....
A Community Becomes Acquainted, Miroandhagd Ylfar'round’ 392
by Agnes de Puy Smith . . . . . . . . . . . 369 y 1“ roe ' ° ° ° ' ' ' ' ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ' '
Conservation in a Dual Role, YosthA‘lholilII): 11:. (iermany’ 396
by Pat Dawson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 371 y “e ' ‘° 5°” ' ° ° ° ° ° ' ' ' ' ° ° "
A Town Dresses UP, Introducing . . . E. T. Attwell . . . . . . . . . 399
by John P. Fern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 373 Election of Ofiicers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Oakland’s Christmas Pageant,
by Louise Jorgensen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374 Regular Features

A Message from Julius A' Krug ' ' '_ ' ' ' ' 376 The Postman Brings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394

The Run-Away Sled (A Christmas Play) 377 World At Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402

Fast Planning for More Basketball, Magazuies aind Ifamphlets ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° 40:;

b V. A. KormeierI I I 381 Recreation IInstltutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

y ' ' ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
Fun is in the Mind, - New Publications in the Leisure
by Vern K. Miller . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . 332 Time Field . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408 I'I

PICTURE CREDITS—We are indebted to the Press Association of New York
for the illustration on page 361; Deqatur, Ill., Herald and Review for those on

page 365 and 366; This Week, N. Y.’Herald-Tribune, for the cartoon on page
370; Clyde Sunderland of Oakland, Cal... for the picture on page 374; Dayton
Daily News for the horseshoe pitching photograph on page 383; Philadelphia

. Recreation Association for that of group singing on page 384; Irene Straus for
that of craft work on page 384; Look magazine for that of square dancing on
page 385; Playground and Recreation Association, Wilkes-Barre, Pa... for that
of bowling on page 385; Survey Midmonthly, New York, for that on page 390;
Peoria Journal for those on page 393.

    

ht " . VI.

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America. a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue. New York
10. N. Y.; is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-
class matter June 12, 1929. at the Post Office in New York. New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1947. by the National Ricreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-ONE. NUMBER EIGHT

I'-:u.l cu U 0 van. to.
I - V ', 't.' A? I I.

l . ' "I if}. '. . I ..I
. I II.u.I .

. . .,

  

[A Community Becomes Acquainted
l'

   
   

  
    

T 18 POSSIBLE to know your neighbors around the
block'and the community merchants besides a
“Hi there” as you put the car in the garage, or

ive an order for a dozen oranges and a pound of

)acon over the store counter. This was proven not

ong ago by an evening mixer given by the Parent

eachers Association of one of our junior high
schools, to which event there was a turnout of
hree hundred and fifty persons.

Large, colorful posters in all the community

tores and neighborhood churches announced the
et-together at least ten days in advance. The
osters also stated that a nominal fee of fifty cents
vould be charged to defray expenses and to go
Ii owards the athletic fund for equipment. Notices
| vere written for the community newspaper and the
l ity papers, along with a list of the merchants who
'ere contributing door prizes. Friends, parents,
eachers were all invited.
In spite of a cold, icy night the crowd began to
Lather just before eight o’clock. We went through
he school auditorium where our wraps were left,
urrounded by huge placards announcing YOUR
YRAPS 'WILL BE GUARDED, then on to the gymna—
ium. The ticket seller greeted us with a “good
vening and how are you,” giving us each the stub
rom our ticket, which was numbered for future
oor prize drawings. Just inside the gymnasium
ne of the committee members tied the wrists of
ach couple together with specially contrived
iysterious loops of twine, which took a bit of time
1d weird gyrations to untangle. No one was kept
le for a minute. By 8 :15 most of the crowd had
athered, the cords were off the wrists, and the
aster of ceremonies was ready to begin. '

He was a large man with an excellent voice for

ie purpose. He kept the ball rolling throughout

e evening and demonstrated, by the smooth flow-

ig sequence of events, that good planning and

rganization had been done beforehand.

After introducing his committee and chairmen,

e first get acquainted game was started. I

l

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
        

1

     
 
 
  
   
  
  
    
 

OVEMBER 1947

Three hundred and fifty community

neighbors take a good mixing, and like it.

Lucky Handshake

Three persons in the room had previously been
given pennies. Everyone was told the purpose of
the game and that they were to shake hands with
as many individuals as possible before the whistle
was blown. The twelfth person to shake hands
with the penny holders would later receive the
equivalent of a larger sum of money. Since each
individual was wearing a small slip of paper with
his name on it, and the name and grade of his
child, the leaders were able to announce the lucky
handshakers easily. 'The winners were then called
to the center of the room and each given one of
the prizes. The baker, the butcher, the candlestick
maker had all contributed—everything from a car
lubrication job to a bottle of cologne, two hams,
orchids, canned goods, cakes and merchandise
orders.

Representatives from the P.T.A. group had vol-
unteered their services as prize solicitors. They
evidently had approached every tradesman in the
community and, metropolitan trading centers. All
had donated most generously and the table of
prizes was piled high. The only missing element
was a life—sized Santa Claus.

Friendship Treasure Hunt

For the next mixer, everyone in the room was
given a mimeographed paper with the following
instructions, and told that they would have ten
minutes in whichlto complete the quiz. Those
who had then finished a minimum of five or six
questions were to bring their papers to the three
judges. ‘

Your name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Instructions:

(1) Find person described

(2) \Vrite down first and last name

(3) Don’t let anyone know you have found them

(4) Don’t let anyone know the names you have found
(5) First one with complete correct list wins prize

369

FEB 181954

MAR 27 19!

Description First Name Last Name

(1) A man without a tie
(2) A lady with one earring
(3) A man with odd sock

(4) Tallest man present
(5) A lady with wrist watch

on right arm
(6) A man with only one sock

(7) Shortest lady present

(8) A man with ring on thumb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(9) A lady wearing different
fingernail polish

(10) Lady with odd shoe

I n n I n o o I u a I I O I o I O n I I o

I I n n n n I n u o I o - I n I n I I a o

O I n u n n o u o n u u I I I I o I I o I

I I a I o I I I n I c o o o I o o I I o.
I I I O a a O O I o o o I I I I o n o on

O O O I o I I n I I a a a o o o I o o o.

o a I o - I n I I u c I I o I I I I I o 0

Variations could be inade of this list. Everyone
milled around, looked closely at his neighbor,
peered at the name tag, shoes, nails, size, and had
a lot of fun in the ten minutes allotted.

F ill-In

While the judges were making their decisions,
it was asked that all teachers congregate in one
group, all parents of the seventh graders in an-
other, the eighth and ninth grade parents in two
other groups. Each was,requested to choose eight
members for his team. When this was done,
each of the four teams were lined up and it was
announced that they would hold a pillow case race.
Four pillows in cases were brought out. At' the
word “go” the first ones in each line pulled off the
cases, put them on again, then passed the pillows
to the individuals behind. The last one in each line
was to run to the front as soon as he or she had
completed the task. The onlookers had a real
rooting section for their pet team and participated
in clapping, cheering, and urging on their favorites.
Each member of the winning team was presented
with a pound can of coffee, another donation from
a local merchant.

‘IMy Day},

In order to give everyone a breathing spell and
allow a few minutes rest, the next stunt wasan-
nounced as a skit to be given by one of the school
teachers. A large placard was posted behind a
desk and chair, announcing in bold letters MY
DAY. The performer read, in rhyme, the many
things which could and supposedly do occur dur-
ing the seven class periods of one day. She was
assisted by three silent partners and the school
principal who helped with pantomime and the de-
livery of messages and the causing of numerous
interruptions. Clever and original, it caused a lot
of laughter and helped even more to mellow a large
crowd which already was more than pleased with
the evening’s surprises and entertainment.

370

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
     
     

The Cake Walk came next. Everyone joined i
a grand march, four abreast. The gymnasiu
teacher was selected to stand on a chair, blin
folded, and lower her arm as the parade went b,
In this way four groups of four persons each wer
selected. They stepped to one side and after t
grand march, they marched, two by two, aroun
the blindfolded “selector”——who jumped when tl
hrst one she touched happened to be a bald-heade
man. Four persons were thus chosen, and th
winning prizes for this stunt were four large. cake
donated by a community minded baker.

Announcement was then made that Bingo, wit
white elephant prizes, would be held in the sewin
room and square dancing in the gymnasium, to u
followed at a stipulated time by refreshments in t
cafeteria. The refreslnnents had all been donate
and prepared by the P.T.A. committee — san
wiches, pickles, potato chips, cake and all the coff:
anyone wanted. During the refreshment perio
the balance of the door prizes was given out.

The party broke up after eleven o’clock. Ever
one voted it the very best affair that had ever be
held for the community at large. Good will w
created, new acquaintanceships made, and a feeli
of friendliness and common interests created. ‘
the crowd reluctantly left, they were all askin
“When can we have another get together? Tl
evening has been like something we read about u
never have a chance to enjoy. A million thanks
the committee and the master of ceremonies.”—
JIrs. Agnes do Puy Smith, Supervisor of Recr
firm C enter, Tacoma, W ash-ington.

#wm

"And please, Lord, don’t let it rain
again tomorrow.”

Conservation

In a Dual Role

By PAT DAWSON

Director of Recrea’rion
,JanesvilleI Wisconsin

I
"| GIVE MY PLEDGE as an Amerlcan to save and

faithfully to defend from waste the natural
resources of my cou11try—--its soil and minerals,
its forests, waters and wildlife.” These are the
Iwords which open each session of the Conserva—
.tion Club meetings in the elementary schools of
lJanesville, Wisconsin.
1 This program of recreation and conservation
education was devised through the Janesville De—
artment of Physical Education and Recreation
r the purpose of combining entertainment with
nstruction in the form of meeting sessions. There
re three divisions in the big club, each taking a
ifferent categorial phase of the general conserva—
ion movement.

In recent years, the public has become more and
more conscious of the tragic conditions of the na-
ion’s natural resources. The war years, just past,
lave illustrated these conditions very plainly. The
ational drainage on resources became so great
a'uring the war that a need for some remedy was
vident. The conservation movement everywhere

' “as stepped up noticeably.
I Contractors, builders and carpenters have found
tely that the lumber supply has been greatly
i+ epleted. Before the war, in the 1936 nationwide
 nalysis, it was found that during the 30 years
1 909-38, the sawtimber stand was reduced about
i 7 per cent. War needs increased the demands on
i orest supplies even more and the future sees no
I heck on forest depletion.
We have found that, rather than decrease con—
. - mption, which cannot be done, growth must be
creased and forest drain (fires, floods, insects,
c.) checked. The sources must be developed and
panded to supply the demands.

A similar situation exists in the fish resources
I both industrial fishing and fishing for fun. The
11 supply has been reduced through demand and

rough neglect. Refuse dumped into rivers has
illed fish outright. Dams have hindered upstream

OVEMBER 1947

 

Grade Conservation Club celebra’ring Arbor Day

travel in the spawning season, thus cutting down
lish hatching. The natural spawning method has
been found to be efficient, but inadequate. With
protection, it could be improved. So, conservation
is finding importance here, too.

Situations like these are being presented as prob-
lems to the grade school conservation groups in
Janesville. They are taken as general problems
and as specific problems as well, with practical
applications to the conservation needs in the Janes—
ville area. The aim of this angle of the program
is to acquaint these boys and girls with the im-
portance of conserving the things that we will
need tomorrow, so that if they do not take an active
part in conservation, at least they 'will be made
conscious of it and concerned with it.

Beginnings

This program began in the elementary schools.
The director of the Janesville Department of Phys—
ical Education and Recreation, with the aid of his
assistant, introduced the program to all of the
schools of Janesville in the fifth, sixth and seventh
grades. They went personally to each grade in' the
schools and explained the program fully. A good
reception was evident and a divided program was
necessary, as had been expected.

The large group was divided into three groups,
each with a definite and separate program, and
there emerged a “Conservation Club,” based on
conservation in general; a “Fishing Club,” which
takes just that phase of it; and a “Hunting Club.”
Each club meets after school at a different time
making it possible for the same boys and girls to

371

attend each if they desire. Each has a different
instructor, selected on the basis of ability, experi—
ence, interest, who is paid out of the department’s
funds and is responsible directly to the department.
The department outlines all the materials and fur-
nishes all teaching aids.

After choosing a club, the boys and girls were
given a sheet of paper with items of interest listed
for each club. They were allowed to pick a con-
venient day for meeting and to select the things in
which they were most interested. The Conserva-
tion Club offered such things as tree planting, gar—
dening, fiower raising, wild plants, movies, safety,
names of animals, habits of animals, trapping,
hunting, movies, and cleaning animals. You can
be sure that movies were selected in each case.

Each applicant was also given a particular per—
mit sheet to be signed by his parents. It was
designed to create an understanding and a feeling

of assurance between the parents and the club. \Ve '

feel these contacts with the home are very neces—
sary in any of our school programs. A double
session of each meeting was planned so that every
boy and girl could attend at either side of the town.
Each club was scheduled to meet every two weeks.

Movies were selected as the chief medium for
teaching. The psychology of movies is sound. They
have the qualities of attracting and holding the
,interest of children of that age as well as being
educational. They are an excellent example of the
logic of combining recreation with learning, work
with pleasure. The boys and girls eagerly await

Casting instruction in grade Fishing Club

 

572

the movies in each session and keep perfect atten-
tion and behavior throughout the showing. They

are enjoying themselves and studying and learning
as well. ' '

The Conservation Club began functioning late
in the fall and will resume this fall. It is super-
vised by a man who has been an active member of
conservation movements for years. It was estab-
lished with a set program of several sessions in
mind, each involving a distinct part of the whole
conservation idea. These were tabulated as follows:

One session on general conservation, its underlying
meaning, etc.,

One session on the conservation of trees,
One session on the conservation of Howers,
One session on the conservation of natural resources,

One session on conservation organization in the state
and nation,

One session on wild life identification.

Of course, these sessions include other items of
interest in their program. For instance, although
:1 Fishing Club was established, the Conservation
Club has run such movies as “Three Rivers of
\Visconsin” and “Canoe Country” to acquaint the
members with that side of conservation. The
Club’s movie program includes other interesting,
movies about “Bear Facts,” “Starvation Stalks the
Deer,” “Vacationland,” “Winter in Wisconsin,”
"Spring Comes to Wisconsin,” and “New Forest
on Idle Acres.” The films are always introduced
in a talk by the instructor in charge.

The Fishing Club is a slightly younger club.
The members are being instructed by an able fish-
erman of Janesville who also intermingles instruc-

tion with movies. The club’s program includes:

One session on general fishing, sea-
sons, etc.,

One session on casting, kinds of bait,

One session on kinds of bait to use
for various local fish,

One session on care of fishing equip-
ment,

One session on fishing safety,

One session on cleaning fish, and

One session on the identification of
fish.

Although the program is pur—
posed to acquaint the members with
all types of fish and fishing, it em-
phasizes fishing in the local area
with a concern for conservation as
well. The movies selected are based
on Wisconsin fishing.

The Hunting Club is the young-

est of the three. Here is its program :

One session on general hunting, sea-

sons, etc., .
One sessmn on the habits of annuals,

RECREATION

 

One session on animals common to this vicinity, ,
One session on cleaning animals and hunting safety,
One session on care and safety in the handling of

weapons.
The program, in general, was and is being ac-

cepted enthusiastically by the grade school chil-
dren. Instead of membership dropping off, the
clubs are enlarging. The work has been corre-
lated with units in education. Experimentation has
proved that visual aids are the best studying device
ossible for ten, eleven, and twelve-year-old boys
ind girls. Field trips for observation and practice
' re taken in all three clubs.
The interest of the boys and girls is an active
ne. They are bringing their friends along, increas-
iig the membership. They are eagerly participat-
i 1g in the conservation sessions, asking questions,
zind offering their own comments and suggestions.
They are entertaining and teaching themselves at
the same time. This program has well-illustrated
the logic and ingenuity of combining recreation
with education.

 

, regress Under
' xpansion Program

HE CITY 'OF Los Angeles Recreation and'Park
Department reports that the first installment of
onds, under the $12,078,000 bond issue approved
t the city election last May, has recently been sold,
1 1d the Department will soon receive $2, 500,000
'5 the initial amount to be spent for the recreation
'- pansion program.
The funds provided for the bond issue will be
ed for the acquisition of land and its develop-
ent and improvement for neighborhood and dis-
ict playgrounds and recreation centers, swim-
1 ing pools, community buildings, athletic facilities
- (l the like; the extension, modernization, and
‘ mpletion of existing playgrounds and recreation
cilities; and the development of camps and
J anch areas.
The Recreation and Park Department has not
n en idle while waiting for funds. A great part
I the necessary preliminary work has been done,
. ch as investigation of specified building or play-
ly- ound sites preparatory to acquisition, clearing
[r way for the vast amount of architectural and
I. gineering work that must go into the design of
 areas and buildings, and so on. As soon as
' money is available, it will be possible to plunge
‘ 0 this work on a major scale, getting plans and

imates ready for the whole broad program of
. pansion.

VEMBER 1947

A Town Dresses up

The story behind the
November frontispiece

HRISTMAS TIME on the Del-Mar-Va Peninsula
C each year spells throngs of people visiting
the hub city of the eastern shore, Salisbury, Mary-
land, to do their holiday shopping.

Last year, the Merchant’s Division of the Salis-
bury Chamber of Commerce worked hard to dress
up the town for this festive season. The adver-
tising manager for one of the local newspapers and
a local sign painter were given the task of design-
ing and constructing the city-wide display.

Three weeks before Christmas, the intricate
lighting system was turned on with formal cere—
monies revealing such spectacles as a Santa Claus
fifty feet tall, shouting “Merry Christmas to all”;
snow banks six feet high surounding the court
house in the center of town; streets lined with
nearly one hundred candles, fifteen feet high. As
a centerpiece to the striking city-wide display, a_
thirty-foot reproduction of the famous painting,
“Adoration of the Child,” originally done during
the period of the Italian Rennaissance, was hung
from the top front of the court house.

It was this painting that inspired the program
of Christmas. music planned and put on by the
VVicomico County War Memorial Recreation
Commission. Each night that the local stores re—
mained open for the holiday shoppers, a one hour
concert of Christmas music was presented from the
front steps of the courthouse directly beneath the
inspiring painting of the Christ Child.

Ten choral groups, selected from different sec-
tions of Wicomico County, participated in the
series of five concerts. Loud speakers were in-
stalled at three corners of the square and the pro-
grams were amplified so that they could be heard
in all sections of the downtown area. In addition,
each of the concerts were broadcasted over the local
radio station.

Yes, through such cooperative community ac-
tion, the true spirit, the true purpose of Christmas
was not forgotten in the City of Salisbury last
year.——-By John P. Fern, Sz'tpcrintendent of Recre-
ation, Salisbury, llIa-ryland.

373

Oakland's
Christmas Pageant

By Louise Jorgensen

Pageant Director. Recreation Department

Oakland. California

ERRY CHRISTMAS! Yes, indeed!
For once‘again, as the holidays approach,

the children of Oakland are happily dancing

in preparation for their annual Christmas Pageant,
“The Light of the World.” Children, parents,
friends, of all classes and creeds, races and nation-
alities, join as participants and spectators to spread
a message of good-will.

Lake Merritt will wear its necklace of lights,
inviting the expectant throngs to the Municipal
Auditorium on its south shore. A gleaming “Peace
on Earth, Good Will Toward Men” will crown the
seven entrance niches, radiating the theme of the
Christmas season.

The area of the Auditorium, with its hundreds
of colored lights and Christmas trees, represents
the entrance to a world of make-believe. Here
Father Time, Santa Claus and the Spirit of Christ—
mas reign supreme over their hundreds of small
subjects who range in age from kindergarten
through high school.

The traditional theme of the pageant depicts in
allegory the banishment of darkness by the new
light of love and kindness.

Program

The Light of the World

We keep today, a very, very old feast. Men
have called it by many names. One of the best is
the Feast of the Birthday of the Sun. The sun has
a birthday like the rest of us, and for primitive
man hers was the most important. She began life
all over again at this season of the year. Long
centuries back, men grew apprehensive as the sun
continued to sink lower and the nights to grow
longer, colder and darker. Therefore, every year
at this time, when the sun burned low like a candle
beginning to flicker, man went forth at dawn, and
rejoiced when he saw the sun rise and the darkness

vanquished. To celebrate this, he made a mighty
feast.

374

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  

Radiating the spirit of Christmas

In the course of time, however, this victory of
light over darkness came to have a deeper signifi-
cance, and man began to think that light should
shine within his own heart, dispelling the darkness
of hate and strife. Then it was that this season of
celebration was filled 'with the new light and
warmth of kindness and good-will. Man brought
into his home that most beautiful of trees, on
Christmas tree, green and bright even in winter
and set lights to ‘shine on it like stars when th
night is dark. It is_a beautiful festival celebrating.
the banishment of darkness, ignorance, selhshnes
and ill-will by this new light of hope, love an
kindness. Today man observes at Christmas time
not the birth of _the sun in the sky, but of the So
of Righteousness, the Light of the World.

Overture Orchestr

PRELUDE

The Light of the Sun

Time, the Weaver, Through Countless Hours R

veals ths the Christmas Spirit

The Heralds
Father Time

The Birthday of the Sun I s Celebrated
Sun and Her Rays

The Wind and the Rain Herald the Storm Kii
Storm King, His Court, The Wind and The Rain

Time Calls the Court of King Winter and tl
Snow Queen
The Snow Court

The Snow Flakes Cover the Earth with a VVh'

Messengers and Hours

RECREATI

J

Blanket while Jack Frost and His Sprites Hang

Their Crystals on Every Bush and Tree

Jack Frost, Snow Flakes, Frost Sprites and Frost
L Fairies .
King Winter and the SnOw Queen Call Forth
l Their Sports

Snow Frolic Skaters
Snow Men and \Nornen Sleighs and Toboggans

Vanquishing the Darkness, the Sun Calls the
Evergreens Which Still Carry Her Warmth
_I and 

Poinsettias Holly and Mistletoe

PART I
he Light of Peace. Love and Kindness

here comes the Light of Peace, Love and Kind—

ness to gladden the hearts of all men, banishing

1 t the darkness of hate and strife, and causing men
'1 to feast together and give.
|[The New Light Appears .

The Christmas Bells Ring Out Good Cheer
I Bells, Garlands and Carolers
.The Christmas Elves Call the Reindeer to Bring

II Santa Claus

Elves Drivers .
Reindeer

Santa’s Helpers Draw in the Most Beautiful of
Trees, Our Christmas Tree, the Tree of Light
Santa’s Helpers

anta Claus Opens His Wonderful Pack

Santa Claus Tops
Blocks Hoops

 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
   
  
  

Soldiers and Dolls Doll Buggies and Scooters
Balls Jacks-in-the—Box and Clowns
Holbby Horses Balloons \

ROpes

' he Pierrots and Pierrettes Bring Merriment
‘he Candy Sticks Parade

PART 11
he Light of the East
Great and Beautiful Light Blazes in the Eastern
Sky, and the Christmas Star Brings Lasting
Peace ' '
he Spirit of Christmas
7‘ he Christmas Fairies
ableau—-—The Son of- Righteousness, the Light of
the World, is Born in Judea

This is a traditional,pageant, produced by the
akland Recreation Department with the coopera—
n of the School Department, and has been pre-
nted annually in the arena of the Municipal Au-
‘ torium since 1919, with the exception of the war
ars. Revived in 1946, two performances were
:3. 1d, one on a Saturday evening and one on the
I' lowing Sunday afternoon, just before the.school
cation. For the fifteen hundred participants and
I twenty thousand spectators, it has become a
t
l

  

nbol of the Christmas holidays.

VEMBER 1947

Preparations for this important and colorful
civic event start in October, for then the pageant
director and recreation department staff begin
their work. Invitations to participate are sent to
each of the schools by the recreation department.
The pageant director plans with each principal for
the selection of groups, place of practice and sched—
ule for six rehearsals during school time at the
school, as well as for the joint rehearsal with a
neighboring school. Details of transportation" of
participants to and from the municipal auditorium
for one combined rehearsal and the two public
performances are also arranged for at this time.

The dances are composed for, and rehearsed in,
groups of twenty to fifty children by the pageant
director. At the final rehearsal the smaller groups»
are converted into a huge pattern to {it the gigantic
Hoor space of the arena. It is here, with the dis—
covery of other groups intermingling with theirs,
that the children receive one of their greatest thrills
of the pageant.

The costumes are a big project in themselves. ,
All are made in the recreation department’s cos—
tume room. Designs are kept simple, colors clear
and bold, and materials used are selected for their
ability to retain their fresh appearance and original
color, for their replacement schedule calls for new
ones but once in five years. Only after maximum
service in the annual pageants are the costumes
released to become a part of the costume room’s
regular stock of thousands of costumes for chil—
dren’s dramatics. Groups are cast to fit the cos-
tumes with minor adjustments, rather than under-
taking to {it the hundreds of costumes to the in—
dividual dancers.

All the properties—sleighs and chariots, thrones
and tree stands, jacks-in—the—box and toy drum
stages and many others—are made in the recrea—
tion department shops by the men of the main—
tenance division. Fresh paint applied each year
can change the color scheme and make properties
used year after year look like new.

A twenty—piece symphony orchestra plays for
the two performances. The conductor attends
those rehearsals held in the Municipal Auditorium
the week before the performances, to mark and
arrange the twenty—five traditional scores with the
dance director and pianist as the dances are re-
hearsed. Timing is an important factor in the
pageant for care must be taken that the program
does not run over two hours.

The unseen activity backstage is interesting, too.
Hundreds of participants are to be dressed in their
costumes and kept busy with games and stories
while awaiting their turn. This is no small task

I 375

for the playground directors in charge of the
younger groups. The success of the pageant is due
in a large part to the harmonious relationship be-
tween the director, participants, pageant staff and
playground directors, and the school principals and
teachers.

Then comes the thrill of the call to form before
the east doors. Receiving properties and the cue
to enter on the huge arena floor, each group per-
forms its dance patterns for the enjoyment of eager
parents, friends and playmates. Surprise and sus-
pense are expressed on the opening night when for
the first time new costumes are worn. Dancing
under the many brilliant lights to the inspiring
music of so large an orchestra and such an appre-

WWWWW

A Message

to the 29th RecreatiOn Congress from

 

Secretary of the Interior

IN MAKING OUR KIND of democracy work under
the stress of today’s economic and social diffi—
culties, recreation has an extremely important part
to play. I am keenly disappointed that I cannot
meet with the National Recreation Congress at this
time to discuss that part with you.

Recreation is a local problem which must be
met in the local community where people have
their day-by-day living. Yet even the most vigor-
ous local efforts should be supplemented. The
State and Federal Governments have responsibil-

376

 

- Joperative effort on the part of all of us. I have s

 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 

ciative audience is a new experience and thri
never to be forgotten by the children.

As each group completes its dance, the dancer
are seated on the arena floor making a beautif
background of gaily costumed children, now a pa
of the audience, enjoying the numbers followin

In the final episode, three hundred white cla
fairies .dance with the Spirit of Christmas. '
hush falls over the audience, the chimes ring 0
and the fairies gather together, kneeling and sin
ing “Silent Night.” The Easter Star guides the
toward the tableau of the Nativity. The singin
by the audience of “Oh Come All Ye Faithfu
brings this joyful event to a close with the Spir
of Christmas in the hearts of all.

WWW

 

ities in the field of government recreation servic
too. The Federal Government long ago develope
such services. The leaders in the interested Fe
eral agencies are today aware of their special 0
portunities and responsibilities. They have bee
studying, singly and as a group, to find out wh
is being done now, what more needs to be don
and how it should be done. As a result they ha
established simple, effective channels for cooper
tive action in the Federal Inter—Agency Commi
tee on Recreation.

I am happy that I had an opportunity to partic
pate in the early discussions which led to the orga
ization of the Committee. We have made pr0gre
in its hrst year and I shall continue to give it n
full backing. This Committee is in a strategic po
tion to determine the present gaps in Federal -'
reation services and to make present services mo
effective. This last is an- important immedia
objective of the Committee.

NoIone of the many public and private recr
tion groups can do the needed work alone. T
success of the recreation movement depends on -

before that we must have recreation in our dem
racy—and we must also have democracy in a
recreation. '

My best wishes to the National Recreat'
Congress and to each of you as you return 11
to your task of bringing more and more joy, h
piness and richness of living to your communit

RECREATI ’

   
 
     
  
  
  
    
     
  
    
  
    
     
 

71
II
I
|

rharacfers and their costumes:

NARRATOR.

JOHNNY, in pajamas and robe.

HIS FATHER AND MOTHER, also in robes.
1 SANTA CLAUS, in his best r.ed suit.

I

 

ECHO, same as Johnny or in elf costume.

horuses of:

I SNOWMEN, stove-pipe hats of black cardboard.
Clown suits of white material. Large black tassels
lor buttons. Stocking feet. Tie a tight belt around
he waist and stuff to resemble snowmen. Eyes
and mouth may be outlined in black and the rest
f the face whitened with clown white. Pipe in
iiouth.

TREES, short ballet dresses in pale green mate—
ial, a cape over shoulder of the same material
ed to wrist to carry out effect of tree. Tiny close
tting bands over head in green, wired or starched

to complete tree-top shape. Stocking feet.

STARS, wear a plain, short, rather tight fitting
dress of yellow material. A ruffle of yellow paper
or thin starched material on ankles, wrists and on
top of head, yellow socks.

BELLS, red clown suits with bells sewn on wrists
ahd ankles.

ELVES, wear tight fitting pointed hats or stock-
ing caps, short capes and long, pointed-toe slippers
i green or brown material with white shirts and

rk trousers.

ime and place:

Late Christmas eve. A simple interior. Fire-
ace upstage center, stockings hung; a Christmas
reath and candles over fireplace. A bare Christ-
as tree. A small table‘ downstage right. On the
ble are a lamp, a plate of cake and candy. Johnny
5 on the floor in front of the fireplace writing a

age are heard singing a familiar carol. At the
se of the song, Johnny rises, walks slowly

wards the table, and reads aloud the letter he has
ritten.

JOHNNY: Dear Santa: I know this is awfully
e to be writing another letter to you so I’ll

VEMBER 1947

ill-he Run-Away Sled

'r A Christmas Play with Music and Dancing

Pub/i0 Um
Iaeéaonvffit. Ill.

leave it on the table where you will be sure to see
it when you come here tonight. Also, here is a
piece of Mom’s chocolate cake for you and a box
of sugar lumps for the reindeer. I didn’t ask you
for a sled ’cause Dad said I wouldn’t be careful
and maybe slide out into the street and get hurt
or upset some lady who was coming home from the
market and there would be oranges and eggs and
broken milk bottles flying all over the place. But
I’ve been watching the other fellows and they sure
do have a lot of fun, and I’d be very careful. So
please, if you happen to have a sled left over, I
would be much obliged if you would leave it here.
Your friend, Johnny. (He props the letter against
the lamp on the table), Oh hum, the fire looks so
warm tonight, I think I’ll just stay here and watch
it before I go back to bed. ’

-(Carolers begin singing very softly, then louder,
as Johnny falls asleep and the curtains close or
the lights dim to complete darkness. The stage
should be completely cleare'd quickly to be as
gleaming white as possible. The “trees” are ar-
ranged at back of stage, seated or standing coni-
fortably with backs to the audience.)

NARRATOR: And Johnny, after sneaking down-
stairs to write a note to Santa Claus, fell asleep
in front of the fire and because he wanted a
sled so very much he dreamed that,he had one
and was standing on top of a very high hill.
Johnny’s father had told him that he should never
coast down a hill unless he knew what he would
find at the bottom, but he was so excited that he
just jumped on his sled and away he went, down,
down, down—and it was colder and colder—the
sled went faster and faster and Johnny hung on
while everything he had ever seen whizzed by. He
thought he must have been coasting for at least a
day when at last the sled gradually glided into a

smooth valley that looked very much like the inside
of his mother’s sugar bowl.

(Curtain rises or lights gradually brighten as
Johnny climbs off the sled.)

377

JOHNNY: Whee, that was the longest ride I
ever heard of. I can’t see the top of the hill now
and there doesn’t seem tolbe anyone here for me
to ask. Helloooooooo!

ECHO: Helloooooooo!

JOHNNY: Where are you?

ECHO: Where are you? (Entering) How silly
of me to keep talking like that. Here I am.

JOHNNY: Who are you?

ECHO: I am your echo. Didn’t you hear me
saying everything you said? But I would much
rather just talk and ask you a few questions. It
gets lonesome down here.

JOHNNY: Where am I?

ECHO: You’re in echo land. It’s just the same
here as anywhere except farther away.

JOHNNY: But how will I ever get back?

ECHO: Now that is a silly question. Didn’t you
ever hear “Look before you leap”? I know your
father told you to be careful where you went coast-
ing with your sled.

JOHNNY: I want to go back home. It is Christ—
mas tomorrow and we are having a big turkey and
ice cream and (begins to cry.)

ECHO: If you feel that way, we’ll try to find
someone who can help you—though I never heard
of anyone getting to go back up a hill when they
were silly enough to come tearing down without
looking where they were going!

JOHNNY: I’ll never do it again.

ECHO: I’ll never do it again. There I go talking
like an echo again. -I mean, I should hope not.
Here 'come some friends of yours. We’ll ask them.

 

Snowmen enter and sing "The Snowmen." (See
page 380-)
They begin to march out-

 

ECHO: Wait a minute. You fellows are sure in
a hurry.

SNOWMAN: It is Christmas time and we want
to get back in our favorite“ front yards and watch
all the fun.

JOHNNY: Can I come with you? I just have to
get back for Christmas.

SNOWMAN: Can you melt?

JOHNNY: Can I melt?

ECHO: Can I melt? Of course he can’t.

SNOWMAN: Too bad. If you can’t melt, you
can’t be a river, if you can’t be a river, you can’t
be a cloud and if you can’t be a cloud you can’t be
a snowflake and fall on the earth in time to be a
snowman on Christmas day! .(They leave, hum-
ming their song)

JOHNNY: Oh dear!

ECHO: Oh dear! Let me think! (Snaps lingers.)

378

   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
    
   
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  

That’s it. The trees are sure to be needed to
Christmas, perhaps they will be going to earth
(Whirls around, whistles and calls) Trees!

TREES: Here we are. (They rise and whi
around Echo and Johnny as the music begins to
their dance.)

Dance of the Christmas trees. (Any instrument
music in waltz rhythm.)

Measure 1-8: Gracefully “come to life,” face audienc

form one row.

9-12: Three individual complete turns to let
Pause, hands gracefully over head.

13-16: Repeat 9-12 in opposite direction.

17-20: Hands Over head, body sways from left t
right four times.

21-24: Gradually lower hands, shaking the
gently. Partners join inside hands.

25-26: Alternate couples move forward or ba
six steps.

27-28: Individuals whirl, hands over head

pause.
29-32: Repeat 25-28 moving in Opposite directi
Hold hands—divide in two circles.
33-36: Circles moving in opposite directions, ru
six steps, whirl, pause.
37-40: Repeat 33-36 in opposite direction.
41-44: Run six steps to original line, whit
pause.
45-48: Run six steps to original position—whir
pause in original position.
(At applause, “trees” turn to audience to curtsey.)
JOHNNY: You are very pretty. It wouldn’t
Christmas without you. May I please go back t

earth with you?
(All the trees giggle and whirl around.)

TREE: But we aren’t going back to earth. DO
you remember, you always burn your tree wh
the holiday is over. We are only the spirit
Christmas trees. (They giggle as they go back
their original places.)

ECHO: Just like women!

JOHNNY: Just like:—— Oh me, now I’m talki
like an echo. (Whistles appreciatively.) Who
those beautiful creatures?

Stars enter and sing "Starlight." (See page 37

STAR: We are Christmas stars and we are go
to shine on all of the Christmas trees.

JOHNNY: Please—may I go with you. It
just an accident that I got here at all. I don’t
long here. I want to go home.

STAR: Well, I don’t know. You sounded '
like an echo when we came in and you echoes
always playing tricks. -

ECHO: He’s no echo. Do you think an
would slide down a hill without looking to
what was at the bottom? We echoes always
for the other fellow to act first.

RECREA

STAR: That is true. All right, you may go. But
where is your star dust?

JOHNNY: Star dust?

STAR: Of course. We would never get by the
grumpy old cloud man who guards the gate if we
didn’t have star dust to throw in his eyes.

JOHNNY: But I don’t have any.

STAR: Goodbye then. I do hope you will find
a way to get home by Christmas. (As the stars

- leave there are shouts of laughter and bells ring.)

Clown bells enter and sing "Bell Song." (See page
380-)

BELL: Poor Johnny. You might just as well

' settle down to be an echo the rest of your life.

'- Goodbye. We have a lot of ringing to do.

(As the bells rush around, the curtain closes or
the lights dim and the stage is left as the first
scene. Johnny lies fast asleep in front of the fire.)

NARRATOR: The bells rang around Johnny until
his head was in a spin and the bells came closer
until they seemed to be ringing right in his ear.

(Curtain opens. Elves are busy taking presents
out of large bags and hanging them on the Christ-
mas tree, as Santa Claus leans over Johnny. There
are bells on his sleeves and they ring in Johnny’s
ear as Santa Claus wakes him by shaking his
shoulder. Johnny’s father and mother enter.)

SANTA CLAUs: Ho, ho, ho, were you ever hav-
ing a dream!

JOHNNY: Hello, Santa. I dreamed that you
brought me a sled for Christmas and I didn’t know
any better than to slide down a steep hill without
knowing what was at the bottom. Gee, that is one
thing I’ll never do, not after that dream. That is,
if I get a sled sometime. (He looks toward his
father who smiles and nods to Santa.)

SANTA: You have learned a good lesson. And
here is a sled you will like. Come over here fel~
lows with all of those presents. There is enough
for everyone. i

(All of the other actors in the play enter sing-
ing a familiar Christmas song and Santa Claus
and the elves give out all of the presents.)

Starlight

Ruth Thompson

 

Spar-He. spar-He.

gleam-ing bright,

‘We

 

O'er

dark-ened hills and in the

 

nev - er seems to

 

As when

379

Christmas Bells
Rulh Thompson

bong, ding dong bell. Jin - gle. iin - gle. iin-gle. ding dong bell.

clear. Chrisl-mas day

Mer-ryI mer-ry. mer-ryI mer-ry

 

roll-ing down hill, We hal-ed lo work so we iusl slood slill.

Speak remaining verses to music, beginning with second bar.

My friends all say I look very line. Old Mr. Crank was a mean old man.

AI lhe besl people ask me lo dine. When lhe children saw him awa lhey ran.

My hal lhough high has laken quile a sockI Bul lo gel even. lhey made me look like him.

I was hil by all lhe kids in lhe block. Ooooouch! Did I lake il on lhe chin.

The boys made me lo look like a lrampI Tramp. lrampI lramp. lrampingjhrough lhe sno
Bul I'd never slay in a hobo camp. Dandy snowmen on we go!

I slood in lhe sun and glislened all day. We gol so lal from rolling down hillI

ll look a cold breeze lo make me slay. We haled lo work so‘we iusl slood slill.

380 RECREATIO

HE NUMBER OF TEAMS enrolled in the Dallas
Park and Recreation Department municipal
basketball leagues this winter will be greatly
'I' increased over the past several seasons with the
'I opening of two new courts. The same building
which housed prize agricultural exhibits at the
State Fair of Texas in October is now the home
I of the municipal basketball leagues. It took only
three weeks to convert this large, well-lighted fa-
cility with its high ceiling into a gymnasium with
l fifty-foot by ninety-six-foot basketball courts.
In mid-season of 1942, the building housing six
} basketball courts under one roof was burned to the
ground. Since that time the municipal leagues
carried on by borrowing and renting facilities
from the public schools, colleges and private insti-
tutions who were most generous but who all had
|- programs of their own. Much revamping of sched—
' ules took place.
Since the loss of the building in 1942, the Dallas
Park Board has been most anxious to provide the

 

The building had a concrete floor
NOVEMBER 1947

I MORE

BASKETBALL

, Fast Planning for

 

park and recreatiOn program with suitable facil-
ities. During'these years, however, it has been
impossible to obtain the necessary materials for
construction. Plans are now nearing completion
for a Recreation and Exhibit Building with eleven
hardwood courts. These will probably not be ready
before another season of play.

The two present courts represent some fast plan-
ning, cooperation and ingenuity. Bleachers, back
boards and goals, unit heaters and other necessary
equipment were rounded up, but the big question
was the floor. The building was adaptable at first
glance but it had a concrete floor and to obtain
wood for flooring was entirely out of the question.

The number one obstacle was finally overcome
and the courts were built. To tell you about this,

let us quote frOm the opening night talk made by
a member of the Dallas Park Board:

“As a temporary measure the Park Board de-
cided, slightly more than three weeks ago, to pro—
vide the two courts which you see now. This was
made possible through demolition of the old CCC
barracks at White Rock Lake. The history of this

flooring offers a very interesting background.

“This flooring was first used in 1934-35 in the
CCC Camp at White Rock Lake as an emergency
measure to offer employment and training for
worthy unemployed boys of our country. With
our entry into the World War, the Park Board
made the camp available for a training center
where hundreds of men of the Fifth Ferrying
Group received their indoctrination.

“After it had served this purpose, the War
Department used it as a prisoner of war camp.
Following the cessation of hostilities, it was then
made available to Southern Methodist University
for emergency housing for GIs who wanted to
complete their education. Since the last GIs have
moved from the camp quarters, this floor was sal-
vaged and relaid as you see it here tonight.”—By
V. A. Kormeier, Superintendent of Recreation,
Dallas, Texas. '

381

“Give the handicapped employee the kind of recreatio
he likes,” is the maxim used in planning recreation f0
employees at the Goodwill Industries, Incorporated of
Dayton, Ohio, according to Vern K. Miller, Public Rela-
tions Director. Many former employees, who have gon
on to other work, still return to Goodwill for recreation

FUN IS IN THE MIND I .

0U MAY THINK Melvin doesn’t have much fun
'most of the time because he can’t see. But
you’re wrong. Melvin has fun in a different
sort of way from you. Maybe you wouldn’t even
consider it fun, but if you were blind, your ideas
of pleasure would be more like Melvin’s and the
other blind people at Goodwill Industries. Melvin

explained it like this.

“Remember when you were young and could-

talk your parents into a chocolate soda maybe only
once a week? That chocolate soda tasted better
to you than a dozen would now at your age. It’s
the same way with being blind. It’s so difficult to
get around to doing things sighted persons do that
I never do very many .of them often. But when I
do have the opportunity to do something that is
unusual, I enjoy it much more than you would.

“No doubt you turn down invitations to parties
now and then or refuse to go on a picnic. You can
do this because there isn’t much novelty in that
sort of thing. You can go to almost any entertain-
ment you care to without much effort or without
too much strain on your pocketbook.

“Now the, for instance, I never turn down an
invitation because I get so few of‘ them and seldom
have any place to go. I have to watch my budget,
too, because a handicapped person seldom draws a
high income. So when I do go out, I really enjoy
myself.”

Melvin’s analysis of the recreation problem of
the blind is typical of all severely handicapped peo-
ple with low incomes. To overcome this problem,
Goodwill Industries of Dayton employs a recrea-
tion director to make recreation an important
phase of rehabilitation. This duty, fraught with
difficulties, is that of Florida-born Miss Carolyn
Lewis. "

Blond, drawling, blue-eyed Miss Lewis tackles
her job .with the energy of a stream trout. She
claims hers is one of the few recreation jobs in the

382

‘camp at Camp Chaffee near Troy, Ohio.

  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
      
  
   
  
 
    
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 

VERN K. MILLE '<

United States where all types of handicapped peo
ple enjoy recreation in a group. Segregation, sh
believes, is unhealthy for the disabled person.

With the knowledge that the budget for recrea
tion is low and that the handicapped usuall
haven’t much money to spend for pleasure, Mis
Lewis lined up a committee of public-spirited cit
zens to help her overcome financial difficulties, a .
the American Red Cross furnishes transportati
to Wherever she decides to take her pleasur
seekers.

Samples of recreation activities she provided la
summer for the handicapped people employed .
Dayton Goodwill Industries were: four trips t
Cincinnati Zoo; a trip to Yellow Springs, Ohio, t
see a stock company’s performance of “Joan o
Lorraine” ; outdoor vesper services in a local par
sponsored by the Church Federation of Dayt
and Montgomery County, with supper furnish
by a local church group; and picnics for each
the departments at Goodwill.

All this was a prelude to the Goodwill sum
months the blind and other severely handicap
people looked forward to this vacation where th
would do nothing but play for a whole week. T
Dayton Lions Club raised $600 to pay all expen
as a club service project. Again, the Red Cro
furnished transportation.

Hikes, swimming, horseshoes, shufiieboa
crafts, dancing, movies, campfire sings and sed
tary games were pleasures enjoyed by the han
capped group. As a- special entertainm’ent, the
tional Cash Register company sent a live show
camp one evening. At another time, the disa
entertained the Lions at a “Thank You” pa

Memories of the good times had at camp re F
with the Goodwill employees for many mo
afterwards. But never do these memories dam
their spirits for the regular year-round activit

RECREAT

The blind have a choral group that meets every

hursday evening at Goodwill Industries for re-
iearsal. The group sings for clubs, P.T.A.’s, and
ver the radio. On Tuesday nights, the home-
bound handicapped are brought in to the Goodwill
building by the Red Cross and join the blind for
a evening of dancing and quiet games.

For those who are confined to their homes in
eds or wheelchairs, some daytime recreation is
provided by “readers.” Girl Scouts and members
f the Delta Gamma alumnae sorority read and
ossip with them. The Delta Gamma Mothers fur—
llSh the transportation for this project.

For the employees at work in the Goodwill in-
. ustrial building, noontime movies are shown once
'1 week, Glamor School is held once a month for
he women to become adept in make-up, and craft
lasses in knotting, weaving, and crocheting twice
ach month teach them better homemaking.

Not the least popular of noontime recreation

   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  

Pitching can be enioyed by the blind
with the help of sighted personsI dis-
ance gauged by sound of tapping on peg.

""- ‘l- “~‘““~W~$“$‘~$§~“~~-~Q ~~~‘

ow Profs Play . . .*

ONTRARY TO general impressions, college pro—
fessors have plenty of outside interests, a sur-
' 'ey conducted by the Campus, undergraduate
publication at City College, revealed today.
I After querying 250 members of the faculty, it
reports that among their hobbies are mountain
limbing, fixing leaky drains, carpentry and brick-
laying. More orthodox hobbies are tennis, swim-
ming, handball, fishing, hunting and skiing. ,

NOVEMBER 1947

 

equipment are the record player, ping pong table,
miniature bowling alley and the pool table. The
latest addition is a Coca-Cola dispensing machine
which has boosted employee morale considerably.

“Give the handicapped employee the kind of
recreation he likes” has been the maxim of Miss
Lewis. Often their interests vary, and at times
they like to do certain things more than at other
times. But all in all, no able-bodied person derives
more enjoyment from recreation than do the ban-
dicapped. Physically and mentally, they feel bet-
ter as a result of their recreation.

Goodwill directors rank recreation along with
physical restoration,‘spiritual emphasis and eco—
nomic earning ability as steps to be taken to put
disabled persons back in the classification of re-

- liabilitated persons. Proof of the pudding is that

many former employees now earning good salaries
in competitive industry still return for recreation
at Goodwill Industries.

 

Glamor students practice make-up during noon hour. When a
handicapped person begins to care for her personalappearance.
it's a sure sign rehabilitation steps are becoming effective.

~m-m

 

~~mm“£ii#iiii

A few professors go in for sketching and music
in their spare time. One gave stargazing as his
hobby. Another reported that before becoming a
teacher he was a carpenter.

Still another one was a business executive earn-
ing $9,000 a year. The latter appended to his
questionnaire: “But I didn’t like the work and left
to enter teaching. As Shakespeare (anticipating

my wife) remarks: ‘What fools these mortals
be . . . ’ ” ‘

*Reprinted with permission of the New York Sun, October 10, 1947.

383

 

SINGING IS HEARTILY ENJOYED. People CREATIVE ARTS PLAY A VITAL PART. The satisfaction of

of all ages lustily raise their voices in song. creating things is a new and important discovery for many.

RECREATION Galas FoRWARn

The 29th Recreation Congress—October 13-17—has introducing them to activities they will enoy. Mor
occurred in the midst of a stirring develoPment of than 2,000 cities, counties and towns are now pro
recreation in this country. The values of recreation viding facilities and programs for community recre
are understood as never before. Interested commu- ation. Expenditures from local funds have exceede
nity leaders, recreation commissions, experienced fifty million dollars in one year. There are mor
leaders, volunteers, are working to provide oppor— volunteer workers in reCreation than at any previou
tunities for citizens to enrich their leisure hours by time. Recreation moves on! .

ARCHERY LIMBERS MUSCLES. Many find a common PLAYGROUNDS ARE FUN. Finding pennies

interest in trying out varied physical activities. the sawdust is one of many exciting activiti

 

SPORTS CHALLENGE THE YOUNG. Who CASEY'S AT THE BAT. In supervised play, enthralled Spec-

can find time to be a juvenile delinquent? tators can conlidently await their turn to participate.

SWINGIN' ON DOWN. Joy comes to a town when whole BOWLING TOURNAMENTS ARE FILLED
families join in turning, out to take a fling at square dancing. WITH ZEST. Players improve their skill.

INDUSTRIAL PLANTS PROVIDE FACIL-

ITIES. Free' time for play or relaxation.

 

Random Comment

letter written by a.Texas newspaper editor
A to Mr. Lloyd Shaw, author of “Cowboy

Dances.” Reprinted through courtesy of the
Sunday N ears-Globe, Amarillo, Texas.

I have been thumbing through your book and
find it of considerable interest—especially the
square dancing part. Square dancing, as you prob-
ably know better than anybody, is becoming quite
a fad hereabouts. Even the teen-agers have taken
it up. It is being taught in the schools, and it’s
one of the most popular activities in our summer
recreation program.

Just this week end, three or four squares repre-
senting various clubs here, have gone down to
Abilene to take part in the square dance fiesta.

\Vhat I’m trying to get at is this: For years I
have resisted all invitations to get out on the floor
personally and do-si-do and circle left. I felt it
was a form of exhibitionism that didn’t fit my
shrinking personality. But last week I was dragged
out to one of the city recreation dances in a school
gymnasium where they are teaching this square
dancing business. I actually got out on the floor
with a bunch of strangers and had a whirl at it.

And I liked it.

INhen I say a bunch of strangers, 1 mean all
sorts of strangers. Among them were a few peo-
ple I know. There were high school youngsters
and a whole square of grade school tots. There
were a former army colonel and his wife, an oil
man, a retired druggist, a couple of school teach-
ers, a filling station operator, a lawyer, a farmer.
a printer, an accountant and a lot of others.

The thing that struck me was that they were all
having fun. Here were people of all ages and
classes, joining hands and circling around and
whooping it up in general. In these sophisticated
and cynical times, it was refreshing to see people
having so much fun without liquid refreshment.

=l< >l< =l< *

One of the dancers was telling me about visiting
Denver recently. There, he said, the city maintains
a huge outdoor arena in its downtown civic center
park where square dancing is held at night. Hun-
dreds of peeple, eight by eight, gather for the fun.
And hundreds more stand around the railing
above, watching the frolic. It occurs to me that

386 .

011 Square Dancing

if this square dancing craze could spread all over
the country, it might do a lot more good than sim-
ply providing an evening of good clean fun and
exercise.

Square dancing brings together people of widely
varying interests. It calls for c00peration and team
work. And that’s exactly what this country-—
what this world—needs today.

2:4 >2: >2: *

\Vhy don’t we have a national exhibition of
square dancing? In one square we could put John
L. Lewis and his daughter, Kathryn; William
Green and his wife, Jennie; Earl Shreve, president
of the United States Chamber of Commerce, and
his wife, Annabelle, and Charley Wilson, president
of General Motors, and his wife, Jessie Ann.

Then we could have a Congressional square.
There would be Bob Taft and his wife, Martha;
Claude Pepper and his wife, Irene;-Vito Marcan-
tonio and his wife, Miriam, and Joe Martin, who
is a bachelor and could bring anybody he wanted
for a partner.

Then we could have a Presidential campaign
square, with Harry Truman and his wife, Bess;
Tom Dewey and his wife, Frances; Earl Warren
and his wife, Nina, and Harold Stassen and his
wife, Esther.

The thing might be expanded into an interna-
tional contest. We might persuade Mr. Marshall
and Mr. Molotov and Mr. Bevin and Mr. Bidault
and their ladies to make up a square. Then we
could invite the Greeks and the Yugoslavs and the
Bulgarians and the Albanians to make up a team
among themselves.

Of course, it might be difficult for all these peo-
ple to agree on a caller. We might have to per-
suade Trygve Lie, general secretary of the United
Nations, to learn a few simple calls and preside
over the dance.

a: a: :2: :1:

But Seriously, Mr. Shaw, I think this wave of
square dancing will do more good than even you
suspected when you wrote your book. Square
dancing is good exercise, to begin with. It takes
people’s minds off their worries, and it provides a
change in diet from the movies and night clubs.

' More power to you and others who are spreading
the gospel.

Yours for more and snappier sashaying.

RECREATION

 

The author of this article is
Superintendent of Recreation
in Allentown, Pennsylvania

l Allentown Popularizes Opera

' 'r A RECREATION CONcREss in Memphis, Ten«

A nessee, in 1927, Dr. John Erskine addressed

a session of the Congress on music. He made
the statement that every city of 100,000 population
should have an opera company, it being very fool-
ish to have companies only in San Francisco,

Chicago, New York and Philadelphia. Since Allen—

town, Pennsylvania, had just celebrated reaching

100,000 in the census of the city, Dr. Erskine’s
statement particularly impressed me. Upon my

return to Allentown, we organized a male and a
I women’s chorus, hired the same director, Mr.

Errol K. Peters, for both groups and the Munici-

pal Opera Company of Allentown, Incorporated,

was born.
The Company was fortunate in retaining Mr.
Peters as director. Not only is he a hard worker.
but he has a disposition that, unfortunately, is
quite rare. Much could be said about his ability
1 as a director, but his disposition has been equally

valuable to us. Mr. Peters’ success as a director
was nationally recognized when he was elected
President of the National Association of Operas
at their meeting in New York this year.

Men and women who join our chorus become
affiliated with the Company because they wish to
find recreation through music. No one receives a
salary except the director, accompanist, stage di—
rector, and dance director. To handle people who
are not paid is a different task from handling sal—
aried people.

   
   
 
    
 

Self-Supporting

In an attempt to select reasons for the successful
continuance of the Company without interruption,
first on the list should be the fact that it is self-
supporting. Tickets for all events are sold by
members at a top price of $1.50, an increase of
fifty cents over previous years. Productions are
presented in the Lyric Theater for three or four

NOVEMBER 1947

IRENE D. WELTY

nights in May and in December. The Lyric seats
I,400 people and our audience represents sixty—
eight different communities. Recently, “Standing
Room Only” signs were required each evening.
Budgets for shows range from $2,000 to $4,000
each and we have about $6,000. in our reserve fund.
Profits all go back into production.

Our Municipal Opera Company’s membership
numbers around one hundred men and women.
Members pay one dollar to join and ten cents a
week dues.‘ Every member must sell fifteen dollars
worth of tickets for each show or he is dropped.
For every fifteen dollars worth he sells, he receives
a free ticket which he can sell and retain the
money. In this way ten per cent of the proceeds
goes to the members. We have a club for members
Who sell two hundred dollars worth of tickets and
one for one hundred dollar sellers. Once a mem-
ber plays a leading part in a show, he is required
to join the chorus for at least the next production
before being assigned to another lead. This rule
assures us of a good chorus and fair play.

The orchestra is a local union orchestra com-
posed of first chair players of our symphony
orchestra.

Business matters of the company are carried on
by a six-person Board of Directors made up of
members of the Company and elected by the group.
The board elects a secretary, correSponding secre-
tary and treasurer.- The director of the Company,
the superintendent of recreation and a liaison
member of an associate group of the Opera Com-
pany attend all meetings but do not vote.

A few years ago, the associate group was organ-
ized by our music director’s wife. It is composed
of members who have been active in the Company,
but who feel that they have gone beyond the age
of participation, and a number of the mothers and
fathers of group members. This organization is of
great assistance to the Company, taking charge of

387

ticket reservations, ordering costumes, music,
properties—all services greatly appreciated by
Allentown’s opera group.

A Family Affair

As many social affairs are planned for members
as time permits. A banquet after each show, two
bus trips a year to see operas in Reading or Phila-
delphia, picnics during the summer months and
get-acquainted parties after rehearsals are part of
our recreation program. In recreation activities of
the two groups, attendance covers a wide range of
ages. Members of the active group are from six-
teen to forty, while associates are from sixteen to
sixty or older. Younger children are used in chor—
uses and solo spots in the regular production.
These Municipal Juniors are from five to sixteen
years old. So you see, rarely is there an activity
where mothers, fathers, daughters, sons and grand—
children cannot participate together. This is inval-
uable for a permanent opera organization.

The organization itself is a family affair. At the
age of five years you may become a partially active
person in the Company. You come to the picnics,
to the parties held by the associates and take part
in some productions. \Vhen you reach the age of
sixteen, you become an active member and remain
so until you think you would like to retire from
acting, dancing and singing. Then you become an
associate, serving on the many committees which
are within this large organization. Everybody can
stay with us as long as he likes and can always
feel at home—this is the main reason for our con-

tinued permanent success.

The Future

Plans for the future are occupying the thoughts
of all our groups now. Our last presentation was
“Katinka” by Rudolph Friml. This was our
twenty-fifth production and our greatest musical
and artistic success. Our next production will be
the world premiere of “Miss Springtime” by Barre
Dunbar and Emerick Kalmann. We invite all who
are interested in recreation opera companies to
come and see our Company at work.

The operatic movement in America is only in its
early stages and will grow. In July, Mr. Peters,
as president of the N.A.O. attended the first Re-
gional Opera Festival held in the United States
and sponsored by the National Association of
Opera at Raleigh, North Carolina. The influence
of this festival was so great that the Raleigh Recre-
ation Commission is contemplating a new com-
pany, as are Greensboro and Winston-Salem.
After a while every city of 100,000 or even less
will want its own opera group.

388

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
 
   

There are about 125 companies in the United
States today sponsored by individuals, stockhold-
ers, recreation commissions, music conservatories,
college music departments, and community music
associations. The recreation sponsored opera com-
pany is invaluable; it belongs to the people; they
feel personally interested, and city concern adds
prestige to a group. So if you are contemplating
starting a company, ask yourself these questions:
What type music theater would best serve the ar-
tistic needs of our community? What does our
community like musically? What will our people
support?

The trouble in the past has been that we have
wanted to produce things too difficult for us, or
not understandable to the audience or too elaborate
and too expensive. The word “opera” has scared
many of us but “opera” as defined by the National
Association of Opera is not something formidable,
drab and dull; it means music plays, music drama.
musical comedy, grand opera, comic opera, ope—
retta, light opera.

The recreation commissions of America can
make opera popular by making it reach the most
people. Let’s popularize opera!

 

Recreation Worker Dies

ON OCTOBER 7, 1947, Howard R. Knight, sec-
retary of the National Conference of Social
“fork and also secretary of the International Con—
ference of Social Work, died at the age of 58.

In the earlier years, Mr. Knight had been active
in the recreation movement. He served as execu~
tive secretary for the -Matinecock Neighborhood
Association of Locust Valley, L. I- He was also a
specialist on recreation serving under the Russell
Sage Foundation for a period of years. Mr.
Knight worked closely with the National Recrea
tion Association and was a great believer in th
recreation movement.

 

?

Value of Literature

MOM AND DAD took the twins, three years 01
to Brookfield Zoo for the first time. T
youngsters showed no particular interest in mo
keys or bears or pandas, but suddenly
excited. “Oh, there they are! Tigers!” one
them shouted. The other joined in the elati
For some time they watched the tigers fascinate
But after a hit one of them turned in puzzleme
to the parents. “Where is Little Black Sambo.
he asked.

"._".
.4
(D
"<.'
6‘
(D
O
9.3
:3

RECREATI

A Simple
Formula

RALPH C. TAYLOR
PuebloI Colorado

| " E’s BEGINNING to look like a boy. A few
l—l weeks ago he was the scrawniest, scabbiest
kid in town.”

It was the. Chief of Police talking. He waved his
night club toward a 13—year-old Spanish-American
boy in the corner of a gymnasium in Rocky Ford,
Colorado, who was engrossed in two-timing a
punching bag.

The boys the Chief had been accustomed to
chasing down alleys had suddenly reformed, as if
the Good Fairy had stepped .in and waved her
magic wand.

“Over there with the weights was my biggest
headache,” he went on. “That young ’un was in
some deviltry all the time. But almost overnight
he has become the fmest little kid you’ll ever
meet . . .” .

Around the room were other boys who had
kept the police on the jump but who, suddenly
and voluntarily, had reformed. Of course. there
were many youngsters working out in the gym-
nasium who never had been in trouble.

Here the boys of the community were together
on common ground, having the time of their young
lives. They Were solving their so-called juvenile
delinquency problem simply because a few adults
had furnished them a gym, equipped it and pro-
vided adult leadership in an athletic program.

The formula is so simple and results so great
that it might be the pattern for any community
of 3,000 to 10,000 population, or for a segment of
any large city. .

In Rocky Ford and La Junta, sister cities ofthe
Arkansas valley, the boy problem was following
the national trend of going from bad to, worse.
The cosmopolitan population of farm and railroad
workers complicated the issue with racial skir—
mishes. Fancied and real discriminations blos-
somed into mischief and crime.

These communities, however, have a number
one citizen who believes that no boy naturally is

   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

OVEMBER 1947

H; ‘ a: ,
bad and that given an opportunity to ldey'elop
himself physically, the boy will straighten out his
thinking and his behavior.

This big brother is Everette 0. Marshall, former
world’s heavyweight wrestling champion. As a
national idol his influence is tremendous with the
small fry of his own state. Ever since he turned
professional upon completing his studies at Den-
ver and Iowa universities, Marshall has been an
outstanding example of clean living and physical
perfection. He has become a national favorite in
winning 99.8 per cent of his more than 1,600
matches in eighteen years.

A country boy, Marshall never passes an oppor-
tunity to encourage small town boys. The other
day he went to the remote village of Manassa,
Colorado (Jack Dempsey’s home town) to wres-
tle, just so the kids wouldn’t think he was too
high-hat to go to the mat at their crossroads gym.

Although still one of America’s top wrestlers,
.Marshall devotes most of his time to farming. He
finds time to retain the Rocky Mountain empire
championship, but as a large cantaloupe and onion
producer, his big job is to look after his million-
dollar annual harvest, which keeps 300 workers
busy.

This is the man who got the vacant upstairs
hall in Rocky Ford, organized the Arkansas Val-
ley Athletic Association and took the kids off the
streets. He bought the equipment for the gym.
He put in a director and invited the business, pro—
fessional and farm men to help shape and direct
the activities for young America.

The president of the club is Gene Grenard,
young farmer back from the war, who was national
amateur wrestling champion for the I65—pound
class during his college days. Volunteer coaches
are in charge of boxing, wrestling, weight-lifting,
tumbling and all the other indoor sports. Softball,
baseball, swimming and many summer outdoor ac-
tivities are part of the program.

At La Junta the gym is in Marshall’s celebrated
Onion Bowl. The block long building is used as
an onion storage house during several months of
each year and for the rest of the time is a field
house for the valley.

The Athletic Association has units in smaller
towns, funneling the best boys into valley-wide
teams that become as strong as the metr0politan
city competition.

There are few rules in the Arkansas Valley Ath-
letic Association clubs. Any boy or young man is
welcome. Members must be clean physically and
morally, and must keep up in their school work.

“We do not need a lot of rules,” says Marshall,

389

“because they invite violations. If you get a chap
busy improving himself physically, he starts” think-
ing straight and from then on all he needs is a
little encouragement from his elders.

“The boys soon learn that fair play includes
tolerance, thus removing racial barriers from their
sports.

“It should be obvious that I am partial to wres-
tling. When you are in the ring, you are entirely
on your own. Wrestling develops thinking, speed,
strength, endurance and skill; it builds coordina-
tion, nerve and muscle. It teaches temper control
and how to be a good loser as well as a good winner.

“Probably only one boy in 10,000 ever is good
enough to turn professional. That isn’t the point.
Amateur wrestling helps any man. Most fellows
are ' just shadows of what they could be if they
used physical culture.

“Young fellows enjoy learning how to take care
of themselves and knowing how to build and
toughen themselves for football and other sports.

“Wrestling comes as naturally to boys as it does
to cub bears. All we have to do is to encourage
them by providing places and some equipment and
by giving our time for coaching. This is a lot
cheaper than the costs of courts and prisons.
There’s little moral wear and tear from a smiling
face and a clear conscience. The program builds
happiness and character and brings peace and con-
tentment to the community.”

And, if you ask the Chief of Police, “It’s the fin-
est thing that ever came to our town.”

A Man Who Likes to Watch
Children Play

HRJSTIAN G. SEGNER, 62 years of age, of
Overland Park, Kansas, likes to watch chil-
dren play ball, so he built a stadium complete with
lights and a grandstand seating 700 persons. Dur-
ing the summer the ball park was open every night
except Saturday.

Mr. Segner placed the ball park only one block
away from his own home. He has been fond of
baseball all his life. He states, “I decided it was
time to do some of the things I really wanted to

do. I hgured even if I was too old to play, I could

give these youngsters a decent place to play.”
The purchase of the seven acres of land and the
other necessary expense amounted, he reports, to
about $15,000.

Occasionally the players allow Mr. Segner to
umpire the games, but his greatest joy is when a
youthful team manager allows him to take over the
pitcher’s mound.

390

Walter W. Petti’r

ALTER W. PETTIT, Dean of the New

York School of Social Work, Columbia
University, who has been a member of the
faculty of the New York School for thirty—
two years, retired on September 30. In the
early years, Walter Pettit served as a field
secretary in the National Recreation Associa-
tion, and he has always had a keen and sym-
pathetic understanding of the recreation
movement. His friends will unite in best
wishes for his own period of greater leisure.

 

Father and Son . . .

HIS TRUE INCIDENT, told at a Des Moines

Recreation Institute, illustrates the close rela-
tionship that can result when a dad participates in
the play and the everyday doings of his son. . This
dad hobnobbed with his son, playing ball in the
yard, kicking a football around, going on hikes
and so on. One Sunday, while they were resting
in companionable silence, the dad was thinking of
all the boys his son played with during the week.
“John,” he asked, “whom do you have the most
fun with?” The answer came back instantly, “Why
with you, Dad.” This answer, surprising to the
dad, is an excellent example of closeness begun in
childhood. Today the son is through college and
out in the world on his own, and his letters to
his father sparkle with the old relationship that

was attained through play, recreation and just
plain FUN.

RECREATION

7?

I
' 1

Enrico

.r-v-y—n -—_——..___

It is our aim at Voit to produce the finest athletic equipment in
America. It is in keeping with this obiective that our technical staff
has worked to produce a basketball that feels right, plays right

' cnd still delivers lots more service at considerably less cost. This
great basketball is truly the King of the Court. Its beauty of ap-
pearance is topped only by its beauty of performance.

Off

d/I’IZKW ’iljmll
aflt%/€/Z6 5W”sz

1600 E. 25TH STREET, lOS ANGELES H o 180 N. WACKER DRIVE, CHICAGO 6

NOVEMBER 1947

 

TAX-SUPPORTED, year-round municipal recrea-
A tion program does not come into existence
with the mere flip of a magic wand. It is the result
of years of work on the part of citizens who take
the trouble to demonstrate the need and value of
such a program and set out to educate the commu-
nity to the necessity of making it a part of their

city’s government.
In Peoria, the impetus for this was given by a

group of people who, with the c00peration of the
Recreation Division of the Community Chest and

All-round and year-10nd"

BY RUTH BROCK, Peoria, Illinois

Paradoxically, recreation means work—eSpe-

cially for those far-sighted citizens who want

it as sound and steady fare for their own.

Council, demonstrated on a small scale what a
planned recreation program is. They worked dili-
gently to assure the passage of an ordinance
which guaranteed a maximum annual tax of a mill
and third per hundred dollars (approximately
$100,000) for a municipal recreation department,
placing the administration of these funds in the
hands of a Recreation Commission to be appointed
by the mayor. I
Starting from Scratch

Just a year ago Mayor Carl 0. Triebel appointed
five people to this commission, one from the City
Council, one from the School Board, one from the
Park Board, and two from the city at large. This
group had a responsibility to meet—~to furnish the
best possible program economically and with no
political involvement.

We were fortunate in procuring the services of
a capable Superintendent of Recreation, Mr. Rob-
ert L. Horney, under whose expert planning and
organization the program has had a noteworthy
beginning. Mr. Horney came to Peoria on April
1, 1946, and immediately plunged into the business
of laying the groundwork for the summer recrea-
tion program which was scheduled to start June 16.

There was nothing with which to begin—~not a
single piece of equipment for play, athletics, crafts,
or office, and with shortages existing everywhere,
it was difficult to obtain what was needed. Trained

392

leaders and supervisors were few and far between.
Consequently, it was necessary to conduct a two-
week institute for summer playground leaders
prior to the nine-week summer program, and later
to carry on an in-service training course.

It was the firm belief of the commission that
existing facilities should be used wherever possible
and that no money should go into permanent build-
ings or the acquisiton of new areas. There were
school buildings strategically located throughout
the city——~—buildings whose use was limited to the
hours when school was in session and whose play-
grounds stood idle throughout the summer. Parks
and city squares were natural recreation centers.
Fortunately, both the School Board and the Park
Board cooperated enthusiastically with the Play-
ground and Recreation Commission.

The summer program at twenty playgrounds
offered activities for all age levels. Crafts, story
periods, games, folk dancing, and family nights
proved most popular. Most of the playgrounds
were inadequate for major sports, so the athletic
league games were transferred to the large parks
and school fields. A Huckleberry Finn fishing
contest was one of the highlights of the summer.
Perhaps you’ve never tried to catch carp with your
hands, but that’s how 840 boys, dressed in Huck
Finn fashion, tried to win the prizes for the long-
est fish and the most fish, to the great joy of both
contestants and onlookers. A Bathing Beauty
Contest at the Glen Oak Wading Pool appealed to
the small fry under twelve years of age, and a
Gypsy storytelling festival and folk festival were
almost as popular as the telegraphic track and field
meet and the junior softball tournament. Free
sound movie programs and amateur nights at the
playgrounds were stellar attractions as was the
Illinois Valley Gas Model Airplane contest at Glen
Oak Park, for which 12,000 people turned out.

'Juvenile court and school authorities had long
felt the need for an after-school program, and Dr.
Melvin G. Davis, Superintendent of Schools,
agreed to provide the facilities and equipment if
the Recreation Commission provided the leader-
ship and program plan. As a result, twenty-three
elementary schools and one junior high school
were made available in the fall from 3:30-5 :00
PM. on school days, and Saturday mornings from
9:00 to 11:00 A.M., to provide instruction in
games for boys and girls. This program has been
designed to reach as many children as possible
rather than to develop a few star athletes. It is
hoped that as our staff is enlarged and trained, and
more facilities are made available, we will be able
to add dramatics, craft, music, and hobby clubs.

RECREATION

 

Something for Everyone

\Nhile the after-school program provides recre—
ation for the younger children, there is an evening
program for teen-agers and adults. On October
14, the Community Center program was opened at
eight public schools, and has become more popular
with each passing week. In one room a group of
adults will be actively engaged in craft and shop
work, in the gymnasium men and women take
their turns at volley ball'and other sports, while
instruction in square dancing and ballroom dancing
is popular with adults and teen—agers, too. Spe—
cial family nights are a drawing card, with com-
munity singing, sound movies, and dancing the
main attractions.

For the many people interested in sports, tour-
naments have been organized and the response has
been outstanding. Figures are sometimes boring,
but seventy-four junior boys’ softball and hardball
teams, fifty-eight adult basketball teams, -(repre-
senting 870 young men from all the major indus-
tries), sixty-six junior boys’ basketball teams, and
sixty-eight boys’ grade-school touch football teams
are impressive proof that our athletic program has
met with favor.

 

 

NOVEMBER 1947

 

For those whose interest is in music, two new
city-wide activities have recently been organized—
the Peoria Civic Orchestra and the Boys’ Civic
Choir. The first gives young adults and older peo-
ple a chance to play together for pleasure. The
original goal for the choir, set at 100 voices,-had
to be raised to avoid turning away. talented boys.
The choir will first perform in an Easter concert.

Of special interest is the organization of Chil—
dren’s Theatres. Everyone who knows anything
about them knows that their growth is a slow
process, especially at the beginning. The recrea-
tion department has organized two children’s
theatre classes for children from eight to fourteen.
\Ve hope that eventually we can incorporate this
activity in our after—school and Saturday programs.

An unusual service, which recently has been
added for parents’ clubs, P.T.A.’s, churches and
other organizations of the city, is the social recrea-
tion party service._ This is a mobile unit, consist-
ing of four leaders trained in directing games,
square dancing, and stunts to fit nearly any situa-
tion. The equipment, leadership, and party plans
are furnished by the department free of charge.

Dividends in Development

It was recently decided to transfer the adminis-
tration of Proctor Recreation Center, formerly
under management of the Park Board, to the Rec-
reation Commission. The acquisition of this center,
with its excellent and varied equipment, offers
great possibilities. Among other things, it provides
room for craft classes which might be the initial
step towards an art center.

 

"Not in dollars and cents. but in the intangible growth 'of
its citizens. young and old"——-thus Mrs. Brock defines the
rewards of Peoria's new. many-branched recreation program.
From top left. clockwise, are a few of its phases: music
proved popular at Amateur Night. Trewyn Park summer
playground: champs of the Prep Softball League: two win-
ners of the Huck Finn fishing contest display carp caught
with their hands. In order to appreciate their skill. try it!

*Reprinted by permission of Junior League Magazine, April, 1947.

393

    
 
 
      
   

Questions on—

A Rural Community Project

Dear Sirs: I live in a small rural community
Where the majority of children live some dis-
tance apart. Our small cub scout group was
disbanded for lack of a scout master. As I
have a single child, a boy ten years old, I have
undertaken to get the children about that age
together at my house every other Saturday
evening from seven to nine P.M. My plan is
to combine fun with a little educational in-
struction, and being new at this sort of thing,
I would like to ask your Opinion of my pro-
gram so far. .

As I have a victrola and a small 8 mm. film
projector, I plan to have a film of something
instructive, a war picture or an animal picture
or something similar, and in music something
that will convey an understanding of good
music. After these two things, we will do
some simple handcraft.

lVIy plan has been received with great en-
thusiasm. At the first meeting I had eleven
children from seven to twelve years old. I
taught them cord knotting, each child having
his own frame, and the older children took to
it eagerly. Each child brings ten cents which
covers the rental of the movie film and which,
I think, gives him some feeling of responsibil-
ity for the evening’s success.

Answer

W e have a great many bulletins, pamphlets and
booklets that will help you in planning these recre—
ation evenings and we enclose several of our spe-
cial lists, calling your attention to H ome Play

394

This department presents a question box on problems
and proiects of general interest in the recreation field
and an opportunity for readers to exchange ideas and
information which may be helpful to all. Address such

correspondence to Letters to the Editor, RECREATION
Magazine, 3|5 Fourth Avenue, New York IO. N. Y.

which ought to be extremely helpful.

\Ve are so glad to see that you are including
music and music appreciation. Wouldn’t it be a
good idea to correlate some of your craft work
with your music? We have prepared several very
interesting booklets on the making of simple musi-
cal instruments for rhythm bands and we believe
the youngsters will enjoy making these instru-
ments and having their own band. This band can
perhaps accompany the music you play on your
victrola and the youngsters can take turns in con-
ducting. It will be excellent training for them—if
your eardrums are good strong ones!

Your craft program can have a very wide in-
fluence if the youngsters learn how to make their
own games and then take them home and play
them with other members of their own families.
These games and puzzles are all simple. and many
of them can be made out of heavy cardboard if
plywood or other thin wood is not available. As a
matter of fact, if you can get several sheets of col-
orded plastic, the puzzles, particularly, could be
most attractive and can even be used as Christmas
presents. Plastics can be cut with j igsaws as easily
as wood and they come in lovely clear colors.

You might also be able to tie in some nature
activities with your handcraft by encouraging the
children to look for simple materials in the fields
and woods such as acorns, fruits of various sorts,
decorative reeds and grasses, and the like. Some
amusing animals can be made out of such material.

You might plan some of your craft work to be
somewhat seasonal because it will lend spice to the
program. For example, before spring comes, the

RECREATION

youngsters might wish to make birdhouses and

sometime in late February or 'March, they will cer&‘

tainly wish to make kites and then, of course. fiy
them.

We hope that every now and then you will plan
some wonderful surprise—something exciting to
eat or a new game and the like. We are sure that
with these few starters, you will have no trouble
at all in planning so much fun that you will prob-
ably have to chase the children home.

Program for Youth
Beyond School Age

Dear Sirs: We are seeking information on a
project that apparently is a new thought in
recreation circles. Do you know any city that
operates a center for youth beyond school age
-—-—say, from eighteen on to about twenty-five?
We have in mind a place for our young peOple
to meet similar to our teen-age centers but
can find no information from any city that has
attempted a similar project or is carrying such
a project on now.

A nswer

Many teen centers do not limit their membership
to boys and girls in high school. Some of them
have an upper age limit of anywhere from nineteen
to twenty-four. We noted in the August 1946
issue of our magazine RECREATION that the teen
center in Columbus, Georgia, called :‘The Tavern”
became aware of the need for a recreation center
for the young men and women who had been in
the armed services, and it, therefore, voluntarily
turned its center over to this group one night a
week.

Most recreation departments handle this above
school age group as a part of their normal adult
program and frequently by special interest clubs.
East Orange, New Jersey, for example, has a
very active group in this age level that takes part
in special social and drama activities scheduled in
two of its centers.

The general consensus of opinion regarding
meeting places is that a well-planned community
recreation building should provide adequate space
and leadership, but handle all of the various age
levels on a fair scheduled basis. In some cases, it
is considered advisable, however, to set aside a
special meeting room for one particular age group.
Other specialized activities that are available to
them take place in the other areas and facilities
such as the craft shop, gymnasium and the like.
This seems to us to be a logical arrangement.

NOVEMBER 1947

An Answer on—

' The Making of an Ice Rink

Dear Sirs: ' To answer your question, how to
make an ice rink: first pick out a level spot of
ground large enough for your group to use. This
must be bare ground with no grass. It is impossi-
ble to make ice stay on grass, for when the sun
comes out, the ice will start thawing from under-
neath.

Avoid stony ground as stones can cause trouble
for the skaters, and be sure the property is clear
of tin cans and junk. A good layer of clay would
be your best bet. We have been using our softball
field and found it very successful. It isn’t harmful
to the field and actually seems to settle its surface.

Flooding the rink is really a he-man’s job for
you must do it at night when all skaters are off
the rink. The temperature is much lower at night
and rather severe on workers when their clothes
get wet. However, it is something that must be
done in order to turn out a successful job.

Our method is to put the water on in thin
layers; just wet the surface of the ice field and let
it freeze. Now is the time that you will have to
run your own job and follow our recommendations
to the letter. Don’t let just anyone try to flood the
field, for if you do, the water which is warmer
than the earth will just warm it up, your time will
be wasted, and you will not have much ice. The
spraying, of course, depends entirely on the tem—
perature. If the temperature is fifteen degrees
above, you can apply a spray and lower the tem-
perature, after which more of a stream of water
can be applied. Between five and ten degrees
above zero, we just take off the spray nozzle and
use a fiattened piece of copper pipe that throws a

. strip of water into the air. It comes down like rain

and is almost frozen as it hits the ice. Don’t let“ any-
one point the hose nozzle down. Keep it up at all
times and get the benefit of the freezing in the air.

We give the entire field a thin coating of water
and retire to our players’ house where we have a
stove, coffee pot, and a few cooking utensils and
wait for about twenty-five minutes, then go out
and look it over. If the water is frozen, we get the
gang out and put on another coating. Keep re—
peating this until morning and you will be more
than gratified by what you have accomplished. We
never use a hose with_a hole smaller than one inch
in diameter on the inside. Keep the water going

395

up in the air, move continuously and don’t stop or
you will puddle it.

In zero weather the conditions change entirely
and very little care need be given the field. Just
put the water on good and thick and go into your
shelter to keep warm. We put up a wire clothes
line over our stove to keep plenty of dry clothes
available for our workers.

We never stand for any horseplay on the ice,
such as Crack the Whip, fast skating and playing
tag. Of all things, have someone in charge who
has a head on his shoulders, remembers too that
he was a kid once, and can handle children.

After ten o’clock we clear the rink of skaters
and start cleaning the snow off the ice. Then we
let the older boys who are willing to help, get the
ice ready for the water and then have their iiing at
thirty minutes of tag or speedy skating, the sky
being the limit. Of course, this is allowed only
after the smaller children have gone. Then we
start spraying.

I could rattle on a lot more about the distance
the skaters travel to come to our rink, our Ice
Carnival, Grand March and races, the impetus
given to skate sales and skate sharpening in this
town and what it means to Mothers and Dads to
know their kid isn’t in danger of falling through
the ice. Above all, I’d like to point out what a good
time the kids, big and little, enjoy—all for a little
effort on the part of a few unselfish grown-up boys.

 

Youth Groups
in Germany

Radio address delivered by Mr. Aksel K. Nielsen of
the Youth Activities Committee, Military Govern-
ment Office. U. 5. Army, from Stuttgart, Ger-
many in July I947.

HE KREIS YOUTH COMMITTEE now found in
Tevery Stadt and Land Kreis in the‘American

Zone in Germany was established by request of
the Military Government in order to help carry out
its objectives in regard to youth and sports activi-
ties. We assume that every person interested in
these activities knows about this committee. How-
ever, in order that the Kreis Youth Committee may
successfully serve its intended purpose, it is not
enough to know that the committee exists. Every-
one concerned in any way with youth and sports,

396

clubs and organizations, should know and under-
stand its purpose.

Since the purpose of the youth committee is the
same in both city and land kreise, we will, in this
discussion, leave out the terms “city” a11d“‘land”
and refer to it as the “Kreis Youth Committee”
or simply as the “Youth Committee.”

The Kreis Youth Committee is a voluntary
committee, elected by the organized youth and
sports clubs within the Kreis. It is not a legisla-
tive or executive instrument of the state, and does
not represent the state. Nor does it come under
the control of any state or local authorities any
more than does any individual law-abiding citizen
within the state. And, although established by re-
quest of the occupation authorities, it does not
represent the Military Government.

The Kreis Youth Committee is, as already men-
tioned, a voluntary body and represents the organ-
ized, voluntary youth and sports clubs and organi-
zations within the Kreis who elected them. The
function of the committee may be said to be two-
fold:

I. To serve as a means of obtaining information

about youth and sports activities in the Kreis.

2. To give service to the clubs and organizations

it represents.

In a way, the whole purpose of the committee ,
may be defined-as service, for its function is to
protect and assist rather than to control.

We are wholly in favor of giving youth and
sports groups the opportunity to solve their own
problems and meet their own needs. We are com-
pletely in favor of giving to all people what we
call the “individual rights” to which they are en—
titled. We hope that every citizen will know and
appreciate that such rights are guaranteed in the
state constitution of Wuerttemberg-Baden. We
will dedicate ourselves to help him understand
and practice these rights. Among the rights guar-
anteed in the constitution—to mention only those
of particular concern to youth and sports groups——
are the rights of peaceful assembly and organiza-
tion, equality before the law and freedom of speech.

In protecting these rights and privileges, we
must keep alert for abuses and attempts to abridge
them. \Ne must prevent any organizational setup
which lends itself to the dictates of a small group.
The motives of such a group—be they good or bad
—must not be the determining factor of its exist-
ence!

For this reason the Military Government must
keep informed. It is placing the responsibility,
not only for supplying information but also for
keeping its own organizations clean and lawful,

RECREATION

  

l

right where it should be—namely, on the youth.

and sports groups themselves.
I know that many wish us to state specifically

what the Military Government requires of the
Kreis Youth Committee and I shall do so briefly.

First, the Youth Committee is requested to re-
ceive and review applications of all youth and
sports clubs and organizations that wish to operate
within the Kreis. Before approval to operate can
be given, the applying club or organization must
meet three conditions:

I. The aims and activities must be in agreement
with state laws and Military Government
Directives.

2. No former Nazis classified in categories I,
2 or 3 may function as leaders or advisors.
All others are eligible for leadership positions
provided, of course, they are fairly elected by
the club members. However, it must be
added that this headquarters reserves the
right to pass upon the qualifications of any
leader.

. The club or organization must adopt a con-
stitution and by—laws which guarantee that
it will function on a democratic basis. The
constitution and by-laws must cover such
main points as aims and purposes, nomina-
tion and election of officers, titles of ofhcers
and their individual and composite powers
and duties, fees collected and for what pur-
pose, support or assistance from other organ-
izations, if any, provisions for amendments to
the constitution and by-laws and the number,
according to percentage, of members needed
to constitute a quorum to do business.
When the three conditions just mentioned have

been met satisfactorily, the Kreis Youth Committee

will register the applying club or organization and
will notify it that it may now operate. The Kreis

Youth Committee is not authorized to add any

further conditions as prerequisites for permission

to function. '

0.)

A second obligation of the Kreis Youth Commit-

tee is to submit reports to the local Military Gov?

ernment and, through the Land Youth Committee,
to the Ministry of Culture. A monthly report
covering definite information is requested. For this
reason the Kreis Youth Committee is asked to
gather monthly reports from all youth and sports
clubs and organizations existing in the city or
Kreis—regardless of whether or not they belong
to state organizations. In addition, the Youth
Committee will collect and submit periodical re-
ports from any or all'groups as requested by the
proper authorities.

NOVEMBER 1947

A third duty of the Committee is to maintain
an up-to—date register of all clubs and organizations
within the Kreis. This register shall contain all
pertinent information such as names of clubs and
organizations, names of sponsors and leaders,
number of members, time and place of meetings,
description of activities and c0pies of constitutions
and by-laws.

I have talked about the purpose of the Kreis
Youth Committee in its relationship to the Military
Government but, as mentioned earlier, its job
doesn’t end here. A big share of its positive value
lies in its relationship to the interest groups it

represents.
It should be clear that the work of the Com—

,mittee is mainly advisory. It is a council which

tries to assist the various youth and sports groups
in attaining their individual goals through coor—
dination of effort and understanding, rather than
by competition against one another. In these hard
times, the coordination of effort and the apprecia—
tion of each others needs are particularly neces-
sary in the material things such as facilities and
supplies.

It must be pointed out that the Youth Commit-
tee has no valid function in regard to what may
be termed “the affairs of the individual clubs or
organizations.” The work of the Committee is
inter—club—not intra-club. The right of each club
or organization to run its own affairs, elect its own
officers, and so forth, may not be infringed upon as
long as it is done within the law. The Committee
is not a super board of directors for all youth and
sports activities.

In ending this clarification of the purpose of the
Kreis Youth Committee, I should like to empha-
size the objectives by way of contrast:

Advise—don’t order. '

Encourage—rather than suppress.
Be a council—not a directorate.
Foster democracy—not paternalism.

 

Don't buy until you see our free, illustrated catalog. Write Today!

3‘ a O .
sports equipment co.
1 POND DU LAC, WISCONSIN L
“mos: A um (EHIUR'I 0t iuotosmp

397

 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

ROUND OUT YOUR WINTER
SPORTS PROGRAM...

Like most coaches, you’ll agree Bad-
minton is the perfect way to fill out

your winter sports program.

Badminton stands in high favor with
your students. It’s a game for all
ages, both sexes, seasoned athletes or

the new H'joiners. "’

In short, you’ll find Badminton
meets your idea of the perfect

winter game.

T here’s no better time than right
now to see the new Wilson Badmin-

ton Equipment.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
{A Wilson 8: Co.,lnc. Subsidiary)

“£03011
Wilson "Tournament"

 M I N T O     i  Shuttlecock

16 white goose feathers; pointed
tips; 1perfectly balanced; selccted

E Q U I P M E N T “7-3  Hen-Ii kid ase; triple-stitched for

longer life.

' o
“ c‘u-I. l‘ n '

IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

 

Introducing . . . E. T. Attwell

 

ONCERNING THE philosophy of his work.
Ernest Ten Eyck Attwell, Director of the
liureau of Colored \Nork of the National Recrea—
tion Association, feels that “the welfare of any
segment of a community should be the concern of
all." In nearly every-section, the Negro group, so
far as much of the program of activities is con-
cerned, represents a community within a commu—
nity. Too often services are walled in by limita—
tions and mental attitudes which leave the colored
citizen quite remote from benefits created by pub—
lic and private recreation facilities and programs,
and his opportunity for exposure to their morale-
huilding values remains unassured. Adequate pro—
vision for community recreation represents a fun—
damental element influencing for good the people
of any creed or color.

The public service contributed by E. T., as he. is
known to his co-workers and friends, important to
so many people and to so many communities
throughout America, has been qualified by a rich
and varied experience. His work in the South,
particularly in Alabama, where he was associated
with Booker T. Washington in the administration
of Tuskegee Institute, made for Mr. Attwell many
friends, until the fact that he was born and grew
up in New York’s Greenwich Village, the son of
an Episcopal minister, has been somewhat over—
looked. Also the fact that he was in charge of the
business affairs of the Tuskegee school became

more outstanding than his athletic services as foot-
ball coach of the Tuskegee team for five seasons.

Before joining the staff of what was then the
Playground and Recreation Association of Amer—
ica, E. T. served on the Washington staff of the
Honorable Herbert Hoover’s Food Administra—
tion program. Following World War I his first
duty as Director of the Bureau of Colored Work
with the Playground and Recreation Association
was to translate tlie \Var Camp Community Service
centers into permanent peace—time agencies and
programs for some twenty-seven or more commu—
nities. Most of these centers were continued and
others were added until today about 300 commu—
nity programs and center buildings provide recrea-
tion programs available to colored groups. About
180 of'these local agencies inaugurated or served
by the National Recreation Association field staff
have leadership which represents an almost com—
pletely new group indigenous to the colored com—
munities. While integration has not been over—
emphasized, the governing units of these agencies
are interracial in character.

In its service to cities, the. Bureau of Colored
\Vork, under E. T. Attwell’s direction, helps in the
following ways: by studying local needs and pre—
paring analyses and recommendations, by develop-
ing public interest, by organizing citizen groups
for recreation and community centers, by training
leadership to direct activities, by giving advice
about budgets and directing efforts to raise funds,
by aiding in program planning and helping to en—
rich local programs through the introduction of
cultural activities-

One of the most important services of the Bu-
reau lies in the field of leadership training. The
Bureau has developed many institutes for training
leaders in the various fields of reéreation—music,
drama, crafts, games, gardening and community
organization—and thousands of workers have at—
tended these institutes in which staff members“of
the National Recreation Association serve as direc—
tors and instructors. One of the most recent of
these was held'last May in Washington, D. C.
Approximately 125 workers, representing twenty
states and fifty—eight different cities, attended this
“area conference” under Mr. Attwell’s direction.

In our nation we sometimes measure accom—
plishments in terms of dollars—and on that level
E. T.’s efforts in the total of local situations have
resulted, in a single year, in the allocation of ap-
propriations and gifts amounting to more than a
million dollars in facilities.

 

NOVEMBER 1947

399

 

HAROLD D. lMEYER, Re-elected

Election of Officers . . .

TIIE FOLLOWING OFFICERS were re—elected by the
American Recreation Society at the Society’s
Annual Meeting, which took place at the 29th
National Recreation Congress on October 16:

President, Harold D. Meyer, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina; vice—president, Arthur E. Center, Akron,
Ohio; second vice—president, George T. Sargisson,
Wilmington, Delaware; secretary, \Vayne C. Som-
mer, \Vashington, D. C.; treasurer, Ralph Hile-
man, Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

Elections for Administrative Council representa-
tiVes for the various geographical districts resulted

in a tie in several instances. When final decisions
are announced by the American Recreation Soci-
ety, the list of new representatives will be pub-
lished in RECR’EATION.

3" -"- ,t . ‘ P ; 7 ; :E”:_l::- * q: _. r ‘
.. . , .. , V . “a .. ,l
.2 '2" t . ‘ z .- a ‘ _ : a? _
\. . .- ,;.-  J . I: I .
1 . , _
E l " .5
_. .

headquarters for

. t‘
. a (V
r . ’n . ,2,
G Y M M A l S ‘  a
T .1":  i z
i. ’ .3 a.‘

’ ' 2:52" ~ . . _ I  I_ ‘ Us”. . 1, d ,,
 6'  ‘ .
a. 'l I 

Ni ; v  i 5
5; [Has ,atedf'oatalagitwit ay. 
   

' , . ' .x 1*

a  "é , s ,, ‘3' ~\ N i
 as}. ‘5? ‘3‘.  .
1‘ ISC. SIN; 'i’ f if

‘  '33.?  “Amateur  

  
 
   

 
   
  
    

"r

   

   

 

400

 
    

Return to the Fair*

HE ADVENT OF cooler weather and fresh au—

tumnal breezes serves as a reminder again that
this is the time of year when the State Fair
flourishes anew. Ever since 1819, when Elkanah
“’atson, a prosperous merchant of Albany, N. Y.,
conceived the idea, millions of neighborly Ameri—
cans have gathered annually to test their competi-
tive spirit and skills. The New Jersey State Fair,
just completed at Trenton, and 'the Danbury Fair
in Connecticut are local events that have resumed
in full force. During the war these fairs were
canceled; last year they were shadows of their old
selves, but this year they are “the real thing.” All
of the hullabaloo that emanates from one barker
trying to drown out another is music to the ears
of millions; the fair has returned.

Perhaps we have come a long way since Watson
suggested to the New York State Legislature that
it support a State Fair, but we doubt that he evef
foresaw the vastness of his proposal. How was he
to know that some day the fair would become as
much a part of the American way of life as Sun—
day dinner at home? Indeed, he never could have
expected quoits and horseshoe pitching and family
tugs of war to become principal attractions at these
annual events. For'his plan was to establish the
fair as a means of advertising agricultural and
livestock products. His was a commercial pro-
gram. Today the fair is a friendly test of skills and
sports as well as farm products and livestock
raising. '

The return of the fair is being widely heralded
by father, mother and offspring. There is some-
thing about it that cannot be topped. In every state
across the nation families are brushing up, prepara—
tions are under way. The fair is back. And mil—
lions of bright smiles again crease red-cheeked
faces.

 

*Reprinted from an editorial in the New York Tunes, September 28,
19-17.

 

A Play Program of Value

Through play a child learns about his place in
the family, the neighborhood and the world.

Through play children work out their fears,
their hates, their love, their repressions and con-
fusions.

A valuable play program cannot be imposed on
children by an adult leader. To make sense to
children a play program must be partly planned
by the children—Mrs. Monica E. Owen, Play
Schools Association, N are York C ity.

RECREATION

 

WEEKKWKWWKEWWKWKWWW“WKWWWW%MMWWWKKW&HKK

   
  
 

Program Material
for CHRISTMAS and the NEW YEAR

CHRISTMAS IS FUN
The Si. George Play (MP 56)——A rollicking
Jfarce. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $.I0

A Chris’rmas Kaleidoscope (MP 95)—A dance
Jr’es’rival for a large number of children . . . . . . . . .05

Games. Games. Games *0 Make Your Chrisfmas
Merry (MB |827)—-—Seven games ’ro liven up

your parI'y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05
A Polar Chris’rmas Pariy—A parI'y wifh an arc’ric
theme. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .I0
Chrisfmas Fairs (MB 984)—|deas for inexpensive
gii’rs and ac’rivi’ries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . f . . . . . . . . . . . .05
Dickens' Chris’rmas Spirii (MB I268)—Ideas for
parties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
A Chrisfmas Par’ry (MB I420)—Garnes 'and gi‘H’ '
dis’rribu’rion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05
Chris’rmas Suggesiions for Children (MB 798)———
Include ’rhe children in ihe planningl . . . . . . . .. .05
Some Chrish'nas Quiz Suggesfions (MB I422)—
Four quizzes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05
Ways *0 Dis’rribu’re Small Christmas Giifs (MB
I587). ................................. .. .05

Ice-Breakers and Games for Chrisfmas (MB I435) .05
Mixers for Chrishnas Dances and ParI'ies (MB

I425) .................................. .. .05
The Run-Away Sled—A play. wifh music. for chil-
dren. November I947 RECREATION . . . . . . . .. .35

CHRISTMAS IS COLORFUL
Joyous Noel (MB I825)—Chrisl’mas decoral’ions

for I'he fables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. $.05
Gif’rs and Gadge’rs Made of Paper (MB 297)———
Ideas Jfor gif’rs and decoral’ions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I5

Chris’rmas Novel’ries for Everyone—Ornamen’rs.
decorafions. e’rc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .I0

You Can Make Your Chrisfmas Cards (MB 607) .05

Malre Your Chris’rmas Coloriul (MB |828)—Chem-
icals ’ro use Jfor adding color I‘o I‘he fireplace. .05

Chris’rmas Tree Ornamenis from Egg Shells (MB "

|l33) .................................. .. .05
Curling Chrisfmas Greens (MB l264)—Going
ai’rer ’rhe greens. making wrea’rhs . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Sugges’rions for Novel Chris’rmas Cards (MB 290) .05

ChrisI'mas Windows (MB 586)—Use of cellophane.
oiled paper. efc.. fo brigh’ren up windows.. .. . .05

RECREATION. November I946: Chris’rmas Holly-
Crowned. We Deck Up Our Houses . . . . . . . . .. .35

Selecfing Toys for Children (MB l896) . . . . . . . . . . .05

CHRISTMAS IS SERIOUS

Fes’rival of Ligh’r—Narrai‘or. panl’omime. carols.. . $.I0
A Chrisfmas Pageani‘ (MP 378)—A pageanf for

small children. wi’rh music and dances . . . . . . . . . .I5
S’rories of fhe Chris’rmas Carols (MB 60) . . . . . . . . .I5
Joy fo ’rhe World (MB |585)—A pagean’r Jfor

church. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05

Chris’rmas Cus’roms and Legends Around ’rhe
World (MB 255)—Told in panI’omime form.... .I0

The Seven Gifis (MB 369)—-—A Chrisfmas panio-

mime. simple sfaging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I0
Chris’rmas Carol LeaiIeI's . . . . . . . . . . . .per hundred .80
Hinfs for Chris’rmas in Church or School (MB I899) .05
MISCELLANEOUS
RECREATION Magazine:
Hanging of fhe Greens. The . . . . . . . .November I944
Decora’rions by ihe Family . . . . . . . . .November I944

Bedecked wifh Bays and Rosemary. . . November I945
Toward a Communi’ry Chrisimas. . . . November I945

A Play for Chrisfmas? . . . . . . . . . . . . .November I945
Children's Chris’rmas Program . . . . . . .November I945
Fesiival oi Ligh’r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November I945
Chrisfmas in San Francisco. I945.

by Lydia Paizef’r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .December I945
San’ra Comes ’ro Roseland.

by S. W. Hudson. Jr . . . . . . . . . . . . .December I945
Cus’rom of Mexico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .December I945
Chrisfmas. Holly-Crown'd . . . . . . . .*November I946
Planning Chris’rmas Par‘I‘ies.

by Robert Lohan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November I946
"We Deck Up Our Houses" . . . . . . ..November I946
The Run-Away Sled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November I947
Chris’rmas Carol Caravan . . . . . . . . . . . November I947
Oakland's Chrisimas Pageanf.

by Louise Jorgensen . . . . . . . . . . . . .November I947
A Town-Dresses Up.

by John P. Fern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November I947
Each issue of Ihe magazine up *0 December.

I945. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
Each issue of fhe magazine ’rhereaf’rer . . . . . . . . .35

The Chrisimas Book—Confains a wealfh of ideas
for pariies. decora’rions and o’rher Chrisl’mas

acI'iviI'ies. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
NEW YEAR'S PARTIES:

Wafch Nigh’r Parl’y (MB 346) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05

Crown Your Twelve Mon’rhs Merrin (MB 265). .I0

Beginning of fhe Year Games (MB I595) . . . . . .05

A "Turn Over a New Leaf" Pariy (MB I7l) . . . .05
*Ouf oi print—consult in library.

Available from National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth 1109., New York 10, N. Y.

‘ wmmermmemm

WWWWWWWWwWWW 1

"1' 3:3?

DWARD WINSLOW, one of the Pilgrim com-
pany which celebrated the first Thanksgiving at
Plymouth in 1621, wrote to a friend in England describ-
ing this joyous time, when fear of starvation had been
lifted by the successful gathering in of the first crops:

“Our corne did prouve well, & God be Praysed
we had a good increase of Indian come, and our Barly
indifferent good, but our Pease not worth the gather-
ing . . . Our harvest being gotten in, our Governour
sent foure men on fowling, so that we might after a
more Special manner reioyce together, after we had
gathered the fruit of our labours; they foure in one
day killed as much fowle, as with a little helpe beside,
servedithe Company almost a weeke, at which time
amongst other Recreations we exercised our Armes,
many of the Indians coming amongst us, and amongst
the rest their greatest King Massasoyt, with some
ninetie men, whom for three days we entertained and
feasted, and they went out and killed live Deere, which
they brought to'the Plantation, and bestowed on our
Governour, and upon the Captaine, and others.”

