 

MAY
1947

>l. XLI. No. 2
ce 35 Cen+s

 

RECREATION , -
5,, Way? 1947‘

i

m

 

k. .. .....- ¢- . . #1....qn- —

IiThe Wealth of the World (editorial), .-  

,Su'Op'timist‘s' and"Junior Optimists,

by Howard Brau’cher I. ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49  ' ' by Harold Morgan. ., . . . . .   . . . . 70
The Singing York'shiremen, Competition and/or Cooperation? . . . . . . 71
by Lawrence and Sylwa Martin ' ' ' ' ' ' 51 Future Foresters, by F. J. Pipal . . . . . . . . . 72

Buidlgg on OngFoiigd:lons’ 54 Padua Hills—Theater in Action,
y ean an ess g en ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' by Philip L. Seman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74

AChleveme.I_1t Recorfi’ by JOhri. J. Ward' ' 57 Hugh McK. Landon . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 76

F“ JOSePh Lee' '  """"""""" " 58 Softball Rules . . . . . . . . . .  . .I ....... .. 76

L' F' Kilelpp Of the umted States Fore“ Music in the Air, by Helen Ladd . . . . . . . . 78

Serv1ce_. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 59 -

‘ "  tt ti ,Ch'ld ’ Th t l . . . . . . . .. 82
Australians Really Play, A en on 1 mm S ea res
by George M. Gloss. ..- . . . . . . . .  . . . . 60 Conservation Clubs, by Ed Adams and
' E 1 W 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 84
Set Your Sights for Summer, ar a ace
by Henry J. Bothwell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 Combined Operations,
by Robert L. Horney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

Goin’ Fishin’, Camper?

by Harlan Metcalf .. .- . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .  . 63 Let’s Go to Sea, by Stephen J. Smith. . . . 94
Wilbert E. Longfellbw . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 66 World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Neighborhood House, Recreation for Youth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97

by Delite M. Mower . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . 67

. New Publications in the Leisure
Playgrounds or Reformatories . . . . . . . . . . 69 Time Field . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104

(Cover print by Gedge Harmon)

....—

RECREATION is published monthly by and in the interests of the National Recreation Association, formerly named Play-
ground and Recreation Association of America, at 315 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. N. Y.; is on file in public libraries
and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. A Entered as second-class matter June 12, 1929. at the Post

Oliice in New York. New York, under—Actvof March 3. 1879.. Acceptance for mailing at Special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of' October 3. 1917, authorized May 1. 1924.

Copyright 1947. by the Nationql Recreation Association. Incorporated

‘ PRINTED. IN'Tl-IB U. s. A.
VOLUME FORTY-ONgL NUMBER Two ...

CI-

 

I Pub/i0 [I'wa 
ail/e, 1/, 6

5’4? 21

Tl-IERE is a new wealth.

There is a new world culture developing.

The new wealth is not gold to be buried in Kentucky.

This new wealth cannot be stolen.

This new wealth can be passed on to one's children without any estate taxes.
This new wealth can be exported and imported without tariff tax.

This new wealth is general enjoyment of living—is abundant living itself.

It is appreciation of music and drama and art and sport.

It is living in the beautiful in music and drama and sport.

It is comradeship in joyous human activity.

It is sharing of the cultures of people.

This kind of wealth is largely inside the individual.
This kind of wealth is the soul of a people working and playing together.
Once established in the individual, in the home, in the community, all is changed.

People are alive. The community itself lives. The nation finds all values greatly
increased.

Exchange this kind of wealth of living between peoples, between nations, and the
whole world becomes a different place.

A place of joy and strength.
A place of comradeship.

A place where pe0ple will to live because life is so worth while.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

49

m.
.m
r
a
C
d
I
0
n
y
n...
R
.0».
.b
a
t
w
P

RECREATION

 

The Singing
Yorkshiremen

By LAWRENCE and SYLVIA MARTIN

s BRITISH SOLDIERS on demob from Germany

A tumbled out of the train in Manchester one

cold midnight last winter, suddenly through

the drafty vaults of the station poured a great

flood of song. “Hal-le-lu-jah!” thundered the
roof. “Hal—le—lu-jah l” echoed the walls.

Dropping their bags, the soldiers stood trans-
fixed. From a platform across the tracks a couple
of hundred bundled-up figures were ringing out
the paean in rich harmony. “My Gawd! Wot’s
that?” cried an awe-stricken sergeant.

The porter chuckled. “The choir from ’Udders-
field’s been singin’ in Blackpool, and their train is
late. When they’re riled they sing the Hallelujah
chorus. ’Tis the loudest music they know.”

“Huddersfield!” Many veterans recalled the
black Christmas of ’44. In Burina, Normandy, in
Italy, Christmas had come to them via the BBC.
In bunks, foxholes and hospitals, Christmas had
meant the Huddersfield Choral Society singing
Handel’s M essiah, that thundering affirmation of
faith. All over the world war-weary soldiers had
sat down and scribbled their thanks.

You’d no more expect music from Huddersfield
than you’d expect a slag heap to burst into bloom.
A soot-blackened huddle of stone houses under
smoking mill chimneys and leaden skies whose
ceiling is normally zero, this town of 123,000 in
the West Riding of Yorkshire is part of England’s
industrial Black Country. Here lives your true
Yorkshireman, famous in quip and story, laconic,
hardheaded and canny. His is the broadest dialect
in England, and the most independent spirit. Two
minutes after meeting you, he’s calling you by
your first name—if he likes you. If he doesn’t,
you’re abandoned with a curt “Mornin’.”

Yet from bleak Huddersfield’s workaday people
pours a torrent of passionate song unequaled any-
where in the world.

Long before the factory towns sprang up, the
farmers and home weavers whose sons are. now
mill hands were caroling on the hills and moors.
In the 18th century, when Wesley carried the
gospel anew throughout the country, these people

MAY 1947

took to it with all the fervor of the early Chris-
tians. In hundreds of new chapels, choirs of shout-
ers praised the Lord with lungs made powerful by
hard toil. Today more than 5,000 Huddersfield
men and women are organized into singing socie-
ties. For a hundred years the town has known no
day or night which has not been filled with their.
roof—shaking song.

In the West Riding the great misfortune is to
be born without a prime set of vocal chords. The
illiterate is the child or adult who can’t “read.
music.” Instead of crooning movie hits, the chil-
dren sing or hum snatches of oratorios as they
skip along the streets. Glees, madrigals and hymns
pour from the schools and churches——and from
factories and pubs. It’s an unusual walk on the
moors that doesn’t bring one within hearing dis-
tance of a rich, powerful voice letting go at-the
horizons with all stops pulled out.

Rehearsal

Pride of England, and Huddersfield’s crowning
musical glory, is the Choral Society, 330 voices
strong. “There’s not a better choir in the world,’_’
says Dr. .Malcolm Sargent, one of England’s fore-
most orchestral conductors. All are unpaid ama-
teurs. ,

The Yorkshireman sings only for himself.- You
have only to smuggle yourself into a rehearsal, as
we did, to sense the deeply religious feeling that
these people otherwise hide away behind a dour
facade. To hear Huddersfield sing is to feel that
God is somewhere close by. The Choral Society
was founded in 1836 by 16 men—merchants, mill
hands, and innkeepers. In its first few years it
met every Friday on or before full moon, so that'
the members could find their way home along the
lonely roads. But it has been meeting every Fri-
day now, full moon or no, for a hundred years
without a break.

Half an hour before rehearsal time, the bare
Sunday School is already filled. Members arrive
early to gossip and compare notes on other choral
groups, for most of them belong to at least one
other singing group, and many to five or six. .

The majority are middle-aged and elderly. be-
cause to be a member of the Choral Society is
guarded as one of Huddersfield’s highest. honors.
The chorus is limited to 330 because there’s not
room for even one skinny soprano more on Town
Hall stage, where the concerts that finance the
group are held three times a year.

At 7 :30 Chorusmaster Herbert Bardgett’s baton
descended, and a single mass voice. shook the old
stone walls. After the first shock, the drab hall

51

became a celestial mansion. They sang Handel’s
lovely chorus, “For unto us a Child is born, unto
us a Son is given.” All the joy and hope of the
world were in that buoyant melody, tossed from
SOpranos to altos, from tenors to basses. But
Bardgett wasn’t satisfied. “I see basses still read-
ing the score who’ve been with us for 30 years,”
he said. “Sing from the heart, not from the head.”

The two-hour rehearsal passed quickly, and we
were out in the little office around the fireplace
with pe0ple who were no longer shouting seraphim
but plain John and Willie, Ivy and Annie, inviting
us to “have a wet” at their favorite pub, the
“Double Duck,” known formally as “The Swan

with Two Necks.”
“How is it that you sing like that?” we asked.

The group looked to Joe Broadbent expectantly.
At 80, and after 60 singing years, he’s the So-
ciety’s grand old man. “That’s exactly what Albert
Coates asked when he came down to conduct his
hrst rehearsal with us.”

The members tried not to look complacent and

failed.

“ ’Tis the hills,” said mill-worker Willie Ellis.

“Maybe the air,” ventured a housewife.

“T’ looms,” said another mill hand. “We try
to out-sing them.”

John Scott, who owns a mill with 62 looms, re-
marked proudly, “My lads and lasses out-sang
them only last week. One of my lasses was about
to be married and her fellow workers were sere-
nading her as they worked.”

The incident casts further light on the mystery
of the Yorkshire voice. Most large choirs are in
big cities, their members only choir-acquaintances.
But Huddersfield, heart of five valleys, is with its
satellite villages a compact unit. People sing to—
gether who have played and worked together, and
whose parents and grandparents sang together.

But all this could still fail to produce the world’s ,

finest mass singing. What counts finally is that
the singing Yorkshireman is a perfectionist. He
keeps- at it until the teamwork comes out right. If
chorusmaster or members are dissatisfied with a
rehearsal, they’ll put everything aside and practice
in one another’s parlors until they get it perfect.
Old Mr. Broadbent remembered the early days,
when the singing was “every man for a’sen (him-
self).” Enthusiasm was greater than discipline
then‘, as with the double-bass accompanist who,
carried away, cried, “Pass me yon resin and I’ll
Show you who t’ King of Glory is!” And the con-
ductor who used to lash the choir to greater fury

of sound with “Damn your eyes! Praise the
Lord!”

52

Sum of the Parts

But today the individualistic Yorkshireman
loses himself utterly in the greater units of the
choir. The example of Susan Sunderland had
something to do with that.

Wife of a local butcher, Susan was a Choral
Society prodigy of the Victorian age, a Jenny
Lind who never went on tour. She had a phe-
nomenally beautiful soprano voice, and was several
times called to Buckingham Palace for command
performances before Queen Victoria, who once
told her, “I am Queen of England, but you are
queen of song.” In spite of her fame, she remained
Huddersfield’s Susan, singing with the Choral
Society for 20 years without any thought of pay.
Every Friday she walked through rain and fog
the six miles from her home to rehearsal. The
yearly Sunderland prize competitions perpetuate
the memory of plain Susan.

Since Susan there have been no prima donnas
of either sex in Huddersfield. When Chorusmaster
Bardgett had to select less than half of the 3 30 for
Columbia’s 38-sided recording of the Messiah, and
for recordings of Holst’s Hymn of Jesus, and
Elgar’s Dream of Gerontius, there was no protest
from those left out.

' The choralists, once notorious as Yorkshire’s
noisiest singers, have learned to sing more softly
than any other choir. In our after-rehearsal get-
together, however, it was evident that the singing
Yorkshireman remained true to his native tradi—

.tion when one said, “T’ BBC ran a Messa’ah at t’

Albert Hall in London wi’ a thaasand voices but
they coudna’ touch us. We lifted roof off wi’
nobbut three ’underd on us.”

A choralist counts his length of service by the
number of Messiahs he’s sung. Contralto Annie
White “has been 35 Messiahs.” “ ’Tis nowt,” she
says. “There’s Willie Ellis wi’ 39, and Joe Broad—
bent wi’ 60!”

Handel’s great oratorio has been performed an-
nually for a century on the Friday before Christ-
mas. Weeks before that high event, the talk among
the townsmen reminds one of discussions in Brook-
lyn or Detroit before the World Series. Instead
of being about a pitcher’s arm or a batter’s eye,
it’s concerned with the rumor that “the basses are
off this season. Now, I mind the Messiah of
1907. . . .” The Huddersfield public is an audi-
ence of experts, for everybody knows the score
by heart.

Not even the war interrupted the Friday re—
hearsals. The wartime morale film, Heart of
Britain, showed the choir rehearsing the Hallelujah

RECREATION

 

in a chapel while bombs were falling all around and
houses going up in Hames. Churchill was so moved
by the film that he had it run off for Roosevelt. It
symbolized the common man's shout of defiance to
the forces of evil, and his faith, in the midst of
violent death and destruction, that the good would
win out.

Nor was it make-believe. All through the blitz,
with bombs crashing and the drone of enemy
planes in the air, the choir met as usual. As they
had out-sung VVesley’s devil so they out-sang the
worst the Nazis sent over, groping their way to
the hall in the blacked-out nights.

The Choirs

Besides the Choral Society there are a score of
excellent choirs, large and small, in and around
Huddersfield. The Glee and Madrigal chorus
keeps up the folk-song tradition. The Amateur
Operatic has been playing Gilbert and Sullivan
and musicals like the Vagabond King, Merrie
England, and Erminie, since 1896. Instrumental
music is well represented with orchestras of vari-
ous sizes performing chamber music and popular
luncheon and holiday-at-home concerts, all free to
the citizens.

Many a Huddersfield business, professional, and
working man who hasn’t voice enough for even
the lowliest choir, but who has music in his soul,
devotes himself without pay to the administrative
side of local music. Among many such are mill
manager A. Guy Crowther, president of the Choral
Society, and building society manager Frank
Netherwood, who is the managerial brains of sev-
eral singing groups.

Malcolm Sargent is the latest of a long line of
great conductors who have come up to lead the

choir for its public concerts. The list includes
Elgar, Henry Coward, Coleridge Taylor, Vaughn
Williams, Albert Coates, and Hamilton Harty.

In their formal dress, the plain men and women
of Huddersfield make a brave show packed on the
big stage between a symphony orchestra and an
organ. But where they really belong is on their
native hills and moors. There, in the summer,
unconsciously obeying traditions whose beginnings
lie in a past beyond the West Riding’s recorded
history, they go out in throngs for Sunday and
holiday “sings.” .

Such sings are traditionally held on the first
Sunday in May, and on Whitsun and Trinity
Sunday. The singing Yorkshireman tramps long
distances to the villages to swell the nucleus of the
local choir, going from one to another. On these
occasions all Huddersfielders who have moved
away swarm back to the home country.

The white GIs quartered around the town dur-
ing the war were nice chaps, the people will tell
you. You feel somehow that they’re damning our

- boys with faint praise. Then the reason emerges.

There were also Negro tr00ps who, after they’d
heard the singing, formed their own chorus and
performed spirituals. After that the West Riding
felt more confidence in America.

Yes, the singing Yorkshireman belongs on his
native moors. When he dons black with an un-
familiar wing collar, and his wife fits her ample
figure into a white gown, it is only because the
chance to sing together is worth even this strange
fuss. But the singing Yorkshireman knows in his
bones that the true walls for full-throated hallelu-
jahs are the rugged hills, that the right ceiling is
the West Riding’s reluctant blue sky. Here he can
let his voice out to full dimension, and praise the
Lord for the gift of a good life.

 

ll

HE PEOPLE DO NOT MAKE songs and poems for themselves. Folk songs and poems come from far

back, and like any song or any poem they have had beginnings in a single mind. What the people

of a country do with the music they take over for themselves, and the poems they take over for them-

selves, is to pass them along from hand to hand, from mouth to mouth, until they wear smooth in the

shape the people—this particular people———is obliged to give them. . . . The people . . . who “can leave their

mark on the words or the music of a country, leave it for a long time and in an honorable place.”

MAY 1947

——Archibald M acLez'sh in Our Singing Country

53

 

Waterford Town '

0 SEE THE QUAINT little town of Waterford.

Virginia, is to know that it has a history of

which it is proud. To visit it during the annual
exhibit of the work of local artists and craftsmen
is to be convinced that it has a present in which
its citizens find real joy in creative living, and a
future in which there is a promise of a continu-
ously richer life for all. Waterford has found a way
to use its fine traditions as a springboard rather
than as a hitching-post.

About three years ago, says a citizen, “3. small
group of neighbors, more by accident than pre-
meditation, found'they were interested in the res-
toration of Waterford, in the preservation of its
historical old homes and buildings, and in the
revival of its former crafts and industries.” This
was during the war. Gasoline rationing kept people
at home. There was time to sit around and talk.
And these few neighbors talked about the future of
their town—a future which might be built upon
the Firm foundation of two centuries of line living.
They decided they could begin immediately. That
the beginning was at a time when small communi—
ties must draw upon their own resources for rec-
reational and cultural activities may have con-
tributed to the instantaneous and wholehearted
response. At any rate, people were interested.

A three—day exhibit of arts and crafts “typical
of Loudoun County” was planned. A committee
invited residents of the area to send to a central
place the treasures they had inherited from the
past or the products of their own craftsmanship.
Members of the committee were not content with
a general invitation. They talked with individuals
who were known to have things that should be

54

Building on
Old Foundations*

By‘ JEAN and JESS OGDEN

exhibited. They did not risk having either
modesty or lack of comprehension on the part of
these individuals interfere with the plan. Then
they urged the residents of the little town and
the surrounding county to see the display.

The First Year

That first year there were more than 350 ex-
hibits entered by 70 exhibitors and seen by about
600 visitors. Each visitor received an attractive
little folder telling the story of Waterford and
announcing the organization and aims of the spon-

soring group as follows:

Because of Waterford’s historical significance
and quaint charm, a group of people have, during
the past year, united under the name of The Water-
ford Foundation, Incorporated, in an effort to try
to revive and stimulate community interest in re
creating the town of Waterford . . . with its vary-
ing crafts and activities.

The aims of the'present exhibit of arts and crafts

. . are to publicize the Waterford Foundation by
informing the people of the county of its aims and
objectives; to encourage the people of the county,
especially those of the Waterford area, in the prac-
tice and spread of such handcrafts as the weaving
of cloth,- blankets, and rugs, the making of brushes,
brooms, baskets, and furniture, chair-covering, bed-
quilt making, illustration and illumination, and other '
similar work; and to provide useful and remunera-
tive employment for those with ability and capacity
for handcraft work.

The first exhibit was an unqualified success.
Everyone reveled in the display of fine old pieces
of furniture, exquisite needlework, wrought iron
hinges, hand-woven coverlets. The products of
skilled artisans of the past stood side by side with
those of their descendants who had carried on the
heritage. Some visitors were remnided of things
they owned or had made which should have been
displayed. Others were inspired to try their own
hands at similar production. Plans for “next year’s

exhibit” were discussed spontaneously and with
enthusiasm.

 

*chrintcd by permission from New Dominion Series No. 82 pub-

lished by the Extension Division of the University of Virginia,
Charlotteswllc, Virginia.

RECREATION

 

“lt was immediately apparent,” said 'one of the

initiators of the idea, “that it was possible to.

stimulate a great deal of interest in the work.”

One of the county papers prophesied that “out
of the exhibit could come the revival of small in-
dustries engaged in the varying handcrafts that
flourished in the early days of Waterford and the
inauguration of new ones.”

“There was a feeling amongst the thoughtful,”
another paper reported, “that the F oundation had
sponsored an event that offered the possibility—
even the strongest probability—of constructive un-
dertakings when war is done, in which Loudoun
folk might find profitable and congenial employ-
ment.”

The first exhibit had been held in one of the
beautiful old homes of the community, formerly
the Friends’ Meeting House. The F riends’h Meet-
ing had been established in 1733 and the building
erected in 1775. It had been restored, after a fire,
in 1868 and had continued to serve the Friends
until the meeting was “laid down” (discontinued)
in 1929. It then became a private home. Though
this was a peculiarly suitable place for such an
exhibit, the response of the community indicated
the need for larger and less personal headquarters.
The 1945 exhibit, therefore, was planned for the
school auditorium. It, too, was held for three days
—-Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. Whereas the
first exhibit had attracted a total of 600 visitors,
the second one averaged that number for each day.
Local people who had attended before came again
and brought their friends. They mingled with
guests from 21 states, from Canada and from
Russia.

The number of exhibits had increased, and these
together with the greater number of handcraft
articles produced and offered for sale attested
to the stimulation and inspiration of the first
exhibit. Sales of articles more than quadrupled.
The supply did not nearly equal the demand.
Orders were taken, by exhibiting craftsmen,
to be filled during the winter. It seemed as if
an industry were indeed launched.

For Fun

But something else had happened too.
People were making things because they liked
to. \Voodcarving, weaving, painting, pottery,
metal work were exhibited by persons who
had no desire to sell. People who enjoyed
similar arts or crafts had begun meeting and
working together. A sketching club of women
from 16 to 60 was meeting regularly. They
had no “teacher” but criticized each other’s

MAY 1947

work. A “hot-sketch” display of one day’s work
formed one of the most interesting corners of the
1946 exhibit.

The art of community singing was revived.
There had been a tradition of singing Christmas
carols. In 1941, a handful of residents had gotten
together with a talented local leader to rehearse
before Christmas and had sung carols through the
streets on Christmas Eve. Each succeeding year
interest and participation increased. The fall fol-
lowing the first exhibit, these singers decided that
singing was appropriate and would be fun through-
out the year. They began fortnightly rehearsals as
the Waterford A Cappela Chorus. During the past
three years this chorus of more than 50 voices has
become an important part of the cultural life of the
community, and its programs are in continuous
demand throughout the county. The singers, too,

. are interested in perpetuating and building upon

the traditional and the indigenous. The program
it gave for visitors at the 1946 exhibit consisted

largely of old English and Irish folk songs and
Negro spirituals.

Growth and Objectives

By the time of the third annual exhibit (Octo-
ber, 1946) the Waterford Foundation had the Old
Mill ready to serve as its headquarters. Need for a
permanent center for the work had been apparent
from the beginning. Two interested residents had
advanced $3,000 the first year. The Board of Di-
rectors of the Foundation preferred to consider
this as a loan. It was used to purchase an old
house. After restoration was begun, the house was
sold at a good profit. The Foundation then bought
the picturesque Old Mill which stands on the site

Living past

 

55

of the earliest settlement of Waterford. Part of
the building is believed to date back to 1740. It
had continuous existence as a mill until 1930. It is
a three-story spacious brick building and can well
serve as a community center with space for per—
manent displays, rooms for classes in handcrafts or
for hobby clubs, and even as a permanent shop
which may become a part of the program.

Its capacity was put to a severe test on the third
day of the 1946 exhibit. Interest in what VVater-
ford was doing had spread far beyond the confines
of Loudoun County. Many guests had driven out
from Washington. Others had come from eastern
and central Virginia and nearby Maryland. License
plates from many other states appeared on cars
parked in the large vacant lot designated for the
purpose. Registration on the first day had reached
600; on the second, 1,200; and on this third day,
almost 2,000. In addition there were hundreds of
visitors who did not trouble to register.

To have this many visitors in a town of less than

300 inhabitants on a Sunday afternoon might well ’

have upset its serene dignity. But Waterford was
prepared. Dozens of volunteers offered their ser-
vices to the guests in the parking lot, in the school
auditorium where dinner was served, in the Old
Mill in which the exhibits were housed, in the
houses opened for inspection, and in the church
where the community chorus sang. The number
of children helping in various ways promised well
for passing on the heritage to the next generation
—-and this is an important objective of the Foun—
dation.

The long—range objectives also include restora—
tion of all the old buildings. This is to be achieved
through encouraging private initiative rather than
through a public program. Evidences of real prog—

 

6

ress are already apparent. Twenty—three houses
and public buildings were listed in this year’s pro-
gram as ready for inspection. Among these were
the Old Mill; the small stone jail which now
boasts “no padlock, jailer, or door ;” the weaving
house where once lived the community weaver
“who not only worked on his own looms in that
little house, but also rode around to different
homes in the community to set patterns on their
looms ;” the home and workshop of an outstand-
ing Negro artisan,“ famous locally for his-basketry,
chair seating, and broom making ;” and several
charming homes remodeled or restored.

The absence of commercialism is a distinctive
and delightful feature of the whole enterprise. This
is the result of planning rather than accident. The
policy of the Foundation is to have “completely free
participation.” Hence there is no charge either for
exhibiting or for admission. At the same time,
there are expenses to be met, and the Board of
Directors must plan for this. A commission of IO
percent is charged on all sales. These sales
amounted to about $100 the first year. By the third
year, the total had climbed to almost $2,000. To
provide additional funds the board has this year
created a “sponsoring-supporting membership en-
titling such persons as shall contribute not less
than $I0 to be sponsor-supporting members of the
W aterford Foundation for the year in which said
contribution is made.” Indications are that income
from this source will be considerable. Whether it
will be sufficient, is as yet not known.

“But when the time comes,” said one member
of the board, “to do something more, we shall
know. Our Quaker background is a help’there.”
Certainly the success of each step taken thus far
seems to justify her faith.

Aids for Your Program

THOSE OF YOU who are always on the lookout for new program material—and who isn’t ?—will be in-
terested in three series of recorded dramatizations which have been prepared by the Joint Radio
Committee of the Congregational Christian, Methodist and Presbyterian U.S.A. Churches. Each series
is available both in transcriptions recorded at 33 1/3 rpm. and in victrola records recorded at 78 rpm.
The transcriptions, designed for local radio use on non-commercial time, are $35 per set and each set
becomes the property of the purchaser. The records are priced at $25 a set. Each series includes 12
programs.

The title chosen to identify the two series already available and others which will be prepared in
the future is All Aboard for Adventure. The series now ready are titled “Adventures in Southeast Asia”
and “Adventures in the U. S. A.” “Adventures in India,” the third series, will ’be released soon.

A leader’s guide, a picture storybook of related material, and a map are available also as supple—
mentary material.

All of these materials are being distributed by The Pilgrim Press at any of the following addresses:

14 Beacon Street, Boston 8, Massachusetts; 19 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago 3, Illinois; 124 W. 4th Street,
Dayton 2, Ohio.

56 RECREATION

 

Achievement

Record

By JOHN J. WARD
Y.M.C.A. Secretary and Program Consultant
Middletown Park Board

 

IDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT, is enjoying the
fruits of a well-balanced winter recreation
program thanks to the fine cooperation be-

tween private and public institutions in the com-
munity. In this city of some 23,000 people we have
a fine symphony orchestra, community chorus, art
classes, a plane builders club, craft groups in pot-
tery making, jewelry making and related crafts,
contract bridge schools, basketball leagues for
young and old, an indoor archery range and a line
skating area—lighted at night—with soft music to
lend rhythm to the efforts of the hundreds of skat-
ers who dot the ice by day and night. To some of
you recreation folks this may not seem much, but
when last season’s program here in town is con-
trasted with this year’s slate of activities, the dif-
ference is worth noting and passing on.

The superintendent of parks and playgrounds
was so loaded with duties that he was unable to
devote time to the organization and promotion of
new activities. The local Y.M.C.A. secretary was
added to the staff as program adviser and, work-
ing in connection with the park department, the
city school, Wesleyan University, and the Y.M.
C.A., the program was greatly expanded with all
of the above institutions adding their bit to broaden
the recreation facilities and program in the area.

Orchestra

Wesleyan University provided the leadership
for the orchestra and worked closely with the park
department to make it successful. The school board
approved the use of the school auditorium for prac-
tice and concerts. The local newspaper published all

I MAY 1947

the informatlon about the proposed group and
printed coupons that interested musicians could
clip and fill out and send in to the park department
office. Some 45 musicians of all ages from high
school seniors to men and women retired. from the
music profession responded with gratifying results.

Chorus and Models

The community chorus found an excellent leader
in the music department head at Long Lane Farm,
a state institution for girls located in Middletown.
Once again the high school came through and gave
the use of their music room for rehearsals of the

group.
The proprietor of a local hobby shop was ap-
proached to head a group of young men who
wished to make model planes of all kinds. His
response was instant. The group meets regu-
larly and already this winter they have had a line
exhibition in one of the big department stores.

Meets are being planned for the spring season and
the model club is really having a fine time.

Games and Sports

A local high school teacher, who used to be a
professional contract bridge instructor, was more
than willing to conduct a course of 10 lessons in
contract, and out of the large group of bridge
enthusiasts has grown an excellent special interest
group. Men and women come to the spacious Y.M.
C.A. lobby one night a week and play a good game
of bridge with folks who know how to play a good
game of bridge.

The local trade school and the high school adult
education department did their part by offering to
provide space, equipment and instruction for any
activity desired by IO or more people. Once again
the response was very satisfactory. Basketball
leagues for all ages from 8 to 38 are conducted at
the schools and the Y in a joint effort designed to
provide for everyone.

It was just recently the local complaint that
Middletown had nothing in a recreation line but
the movies. This winter, thanks to planned com-
munity effort, men and women and youngsters can
pursue their special interest with congenial, simi-
larly interested folks. This is just a start. All really
worthwhile programs take some time to develop,
so with the cooperation of the city government and
public and private organizations, Middletown
should have an excellent well-rounded program for
men and women of all ages and interests.

57

For Joseph Lee

 

.
are. 3
fad/f;
an at a.» s. as



HF. LAST FRIDAY in July comes on the 25th of
Tthe month this year. If you haven’t already

done so, put a large red circle around that date
on your calendar, for Friday, July 25 is Joseph
Lee Day.

It’s not too early to put on your thinking caps—
or Whatever takes the place of a cap in these
modern days when head coverings are rapidly
becoming as rare as the duckbill platypus—-—and
begin planning events and programs to pay tribute
to the man who played so large a part in giving
form and substance to the word recreation. It’s
neither possible nor desirable to set a singlepat-
tern of celebration for Joseph Lee Day. The day’s
activities will and should grow naturally out of the
program worked out to fit the needs of the com-
munity. Your program may be as elaborate as a
city-wide pageant, as simple as a special song at
flag raising time. You might, however, like to pick
some other brains—by remote control as it were.
So . . . here are some highlights taken from 1946
reports in our files.

Living Memorial —-—

Piqua. Ohio. began its celebration with a parade
at I :30 P.M., ended it with a juke box dance from
9 RM. on. In between there were field day events,
a doll and decorated vehicle contest, a band con-
cert, the crowning of a playground king and queen.
Each playground chose its candidate for royalty
by popular vote. From these youngsters a commit-
tee of P.T.A. officers selected the reigning mon—
archs. When evening came, the mayor dedicated
all of the city’s parks and recreation facilities and
the larger plans being made for their expansion to
the servicemen and women of two wars and to the
men, Joseph Lee and Raymond Mote, who on the

58

Courtesy Marietta, Ohio. Recreation Commission

Fighting their way
out of a paper bag

national and local level respectively were respon—
sible for the facilities.

N amesakes —

San Francisco. California. in a week long celebra—
tion, planned a coordinated program in its 150
recreation units —playgrounds, housing project
centers, school playgrounds, teen-age centers,
gyms. There was a special issue of the weekly bul-
letin ReCreation dedicated to Joseph Lee. Many
display windows in the downtown shopping center
featured a Joseph Lee theme. A city-wide play (lay
called, among other things, for games and a hike
and swim. At each of the 150 units a play space
was set aside and named in honor of Joseph Lee.

Drama and Crafts—

In Lawrence. Massachusetts. each playground
leader set aside one activity during the day for
Joseph Lee. One ground arranged a special ama-
teur show and costume party. Augusta. Georgia.
planned one-act plays on three playgrounds for the
occasion, while playground youngsters in Greens-
boro. North Carolina. participated in a sandbox
contest. The Winning entry was called “Joseph
Lee’s Dream”; showed a model city complete with
enough parks and playgrounds to “go round.”

—— and Many Another Activity

Half a world and more away from Mr. Lee’s
native Boston, Hawaiian children on Honolulu’s
playgrounds decorated his photograph with gar-
lands of leis, played the games and sang the songs

RECREATION

 

 

and danced the dances he liked to play and sing
and dance. At day’s end, 28 boys and girls from 16
playgrounds received awards recognizing their
help and ability as junior playground leaders.

On another sun-hot land—Louisiana—250 boys
and girls in the city of Monroe played hard at soft-
ball, pole climbing, folk dancing, checkers, ping-
pong. When they had done with playing they
revelled in a street shower, “and then,” as the

director put it, “in a good thunder shower from
heaven.”

White Plains. N.Y., Philadelphia, Pa., Greensboro.
N. C.——among other places—took to the airwaves
to spread the gospel of recreation. Teen-age girl
members of the White Plains Radio Workshop
wrote and produced a program about Joseph Lee.
Philadelphia and Greensboro presented dramatic

L. F. Kneipp

ot the I
United States Forest Service

HE RETIREMENT of L. F. Kneipp from the
United States Forest Service on December
3ISt after nearly 47 years of effective service in
many branches of the department is an occasion
to remind our readers of the outstanding contri-

bution which he has rendered the recreation move-
ment.

L: F. Kneipp became a forest ranger in 1900.
From his early work in the Prescott Forest Re-
serve in Arizona on through a variety of assign-
ments as forest inspector, chief of branch of grazing,
district forester and finally 'as Assistant Chief,
Forest Service, Mr. Kneipp was deeply interested

in the outdoor recreation possibilities of forests
and wilderness areas.

For the past 25 years of his service he has been
in charge of land acquisition and planning. Areas

acquired by purchase and in other ways now num-
ber some 23 million acres.

scripts highlighting some of the events of his life.

And so the day went in 1946. There were few
recreation departments that did not take cogni-
zance of the man the day remembered. Games and
sports, picnics and potluck suppers, open houses
and community nights, craft exhibits and circuses
and concerts—each community offered its recrea-
tion best for the occasion.

This year again the recreation world will single
out one day to stand for all the days of happiness
made possible in part by the loving care of Joseph
Lee. Remember the date—July 25. What events
you choose to mark it, matter little. The spirit of
the marking matters greatly, for truly you are com-
memorating not a great man alone but the very
essence of this thing we believe in—this joy of
living through play.

The close relationship of L. F. Kneipp with the
work of the National Recreation Association began
in 1924 in connection with the organization of the
President’s National Conference on Outdoor Rec-
reation. He served as one of the original commit-
tee which under the executive direction of Col.
Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., planned the conference.
Later he served as Executive Secretary.

L. F. Kneipp attended meetings of the Recrea-
tion Congress, encouraged exchange of informa-
tion and visits between recreation leaders and
forestry workers, participated in early meetings of
the Education Recreation Council and has always
stood for sound development of recreation services
under public and private auspices and at all times
supported and worked for a cooperation between
such agencies as each made its own special con-
tribution.

Not the United States Forestry Service alone
but.the recreation services of all federal agencies
and those of many private agencies have felt the
great infiuence of his fine spirit and practical
statesman-like approach of using natural resources
for enriching the life of the people.

Mr. Kneipp has been succeeded by Mr. Howard
Hopkins, an associate of Mr. Kneipp who has had
over 20 years experience in the Forest Service.

 

“Can it be true that for our youth nature is no longer that beautiful, mysterious realm to thrill

its adventurous heart as it once thrilled mine? In the dark woodland does youth still hearken to the
magic of the wood thrush’s evening song? Is it moved to discover the first wild anemones in spring-
time—that single oxheart clump gleaming yellow in the whiteness of a daisy field—a lone pink lady’s-
slipper blooming in the forest shade ?”——William A. Babson in Modern Wilderness.

MAY 1947 ’ 59

Australians

Really
Play

By GEORGE M. GLoss

Es, AUSTRALIA really plays! Everybody in
Australia plays and enjoys it. There are
differences in the manner in which people
engage in play activity. One man may run for
the joy of running, another for a prize. One

 

may play to secure a reward, to work more
efficiently, to make better business contacts, to
become healthy, or, as the Aussie does, for
sheer pleasure—no reason needed, ust part of
the good life. All Australians love their sports,
from kids hardly able to hold a tennis racquet
to grandparents whose legs are just able to
carry them around a croquet court or a bowl-
ing green.

Try asking your Australian girl friend for
a game of tennis and she might surprise you
and take off her shoes to give you a game right
then and there. Don’t bet on your chances of
winning. You wouldn’t have to go far to play
either, because if there is not a court on the
front lawn, there is sure to be one nearby.

As for swimming, there are wonderful
beaches all around the shoreline and Aus-

60

 

tralians have the best life-saving group in the
world.

A weekend starts on Friday in Australia
and the picnics, hikes, swims and games—all
out-of-doors—last almost until Tuesday.

Australians are pleasure makers who love
the sun, and absorb as much of itas they pos-
sibly can at every opportunity. On a trip they
take their own time in arriving so that they
may get the full benefit of sun and scenery.
They forget about Demon Work. They enjoy
to the utmost the climate and the natural beauty
of their delightful country. In their letters to
friends, they do not tell about their financial
worries, their sorrows or disasters, but Speak
fully about how much fun they are having or
about other pleasant things.

 

Photos courtesy the.author '

RECREATION

 

AREFOOTED YOUNGSTERS shouting and splashing
B in every puddle and rain—washed street tell us

that spring is here. Yet even now those three
fun loving sisters, June, July and August, are
peeking around the corner, whispering to laughing
children that vacation days are coming. Alert rec—
reation leaders know that in order to keep pro—
grams successful and plans well organized, it is
necessary to stay one jump ahead of the season.

Here is how one community kept those shouts of

laughter going through the summer months by'

launching a learn-to-swim program for its children.

“Swim for Fun and Safety” was the slogan
chosen for the project in Urbana, Illinois, in the
summer of 1946. It was the subject of numerous
news stories in our local papers, and became a by-
word in most of the homes in our community.
This campaign, sponsored by the Urbana Park
Board to make every child a swimmer, was one of
the most successful of the board’s recreation ac-
tivities.

Preparations

The program was arranged so that every child
who wished to avail himself of the Opportunity to
learn to swim could do so at the Urbana Park Pool.
We began in May to publicize the swim project in
the schools of Urbana, but most of the paper work
had been done weeks before. Form letters, regis—
tration cards, and publicity releases had been pre-
pared except for dates or last minute details which
could be inserted later. We had printed 400 forms
to be distributed to the school children. The forms
were to be filled in with such information as Name,
Age, Address, Phone, Parent’s Signature, and a
choice of the Beginner or Advanced Classification.
Printed on the cards were the dates of the first
lessons, and the statement that all lessons were
FREE. A minimum age of six years was set for
children who wished to enroll in the classes.

Members of the recreation staff made a visit to
each school, having made arangement with the
principal well in advance so that either a general
assembly was prepared or the teachers had been
notified that we would speak in their classes. All
talks were short and graded to suit each age level
visited. We tried to make these “pool—pep” talks
as attention-getting as possible. Afterwards each
child was given a card to take home, and told to
return it promptly and correctly signed to his
teacher or to mail it to the park ofhce.

MAY 1947

Set Your Sights

for Summer

By HENRY J. BOTHWELL

Director of Summer Recreation
Urbana. lllinois

After we had received about 300 forms, a letter
was mimeographed to go out to each parent whose
child had registered for swimming lessons. In these
letters we explained in detail that boys would come
to the park pool on Tuesday and Thursday morn—
ings, and girls would attend Wednesday and Fri—
day mornings. Also included in the letters was the
information that all boys and girls had been divided
into three groups according to age and swimming
ability (information which we obtained from-our

h returned forms). Classes were scheduled for 9 :30

A.M., 10:00 A.M. and 10:30 A.M. with instruction
lasting for 30 minutes and followed by a 20-minute
free-play period under adequate supervision. The
more advanced and usually older boys and girls
attended the first class. Lessons, as stated before,
were free, the only requirement being that each
child bring a towel.

Our head swimming instructor, a veteran who
had taught swimming in the Navy, was most capa—
ble. He prepared detailed lesson plans which his
assistants followed diligently each lesson day. By
means of the division of the classes, we were able
to have each teacher handle smaller groups and
thus individual attention was greater.

Transportation

Because the Urbana Park Pool is situated in a
beautiful wooded setting about a mile from the
nearest bus stop, the park commissioners conceived
the idea of chartering a bus to stop at each park
area in the city and transport children to and from
the pool in time for their lessons. So, in our letter
to the parents, this proposed service was described,
and we asked their opinions of such a system. The
transportation cost was set at 10 cents per child
for the round trip. Postcards with our return
address were enclosed in each letter. The response
was heartening in every way, as the parents seemed
grateful and enthusiastically endorsed the new bus
service.

61

The advent of the letters served a double pur-
pose, for it seems every parent discussed it with
his neighbors and friends, and those whose children
had not signed up for the lessons or who had lost
their cardsiwe're anxious to join the program. The
director’s phone rang constantly with requests for
cards and the pool staff1 was besieged with calls
for application blanks. It was finally necessary to
print an additional 300 cards. The total enrollment
surpassed all expectations .with 638 children re—
porting for lessons on the first two days.

Newspaper publicity helped tremendously to in-
form parents of the swimming program. The time
of bus stops in each park was printed in both of
our local papers, and of course, each park super-
visor knew the schedule. One of the recreation staff
was assigned to ride the bus on every trip, not
only to collect the IQ cent fare and give each child
his retuiiii ticket, but, generally, to keep an eye on
the childreni‘and'help any who needed assistance.
Approximately 100 children were carried on the
park bus each day of classes.

I

Attendance
Respon'seto our program even came from chil-

dren in near—by communities. Several parents made‘

long trips to the pool each class day so that their
children could participate in these lessons. One
mother, living about 25 miles away, wrote asking
for eight forms because she was planning to bring
her son and thought she could enroll some neigh—
bor children, too, if we would accept them. Need-
less to say, we were happy to have them attend
classes.

Attendance remained high during the six weeks
that lessons were offered and about 150 children
passed their beginning Red Cross swimming tests.
Many in the advanced groups earned their Junior
and Senior Life Saving Badges. All enjoyed the
program and.benefited by it. '

Finale

Climax of the season was a water carnival pre-
sented July 19 at 6 :45 P.M. The beautiful oval pool
is surrounded by grassy slopes which afford a
fine place for spectators. According to the custom
of the Urbana Park Board all entertainments are
free, and approximately 4,500 people availed them-
selves of the opportunity to witness the colorful
water show. The program started early because we
were featuring a promenade of our swimming
classes. By having the children first on the pro-
gram they Iwere free to rejoin their parents and
see therest ‘of the carnival. A second letter was
prepared, and distributed at. the swimmingiclasses
the day before the carnival asking parents to bring

62

their child—in his swim suit—to the pool to facili-
tate matters as our bathhouse staff was busy per-
forming in the show. Again the newspapers played
up our request, and the evening of the program,
about 400 children took part in the promenade
around the pool. As “it was impossible to have
each child demonstrate the skills he had learned,
we selected five boys and live girls to represent
the group and races were arranged for them.
Prizes, which consisted of free passes to the pool,
were awarded to the winners.

Each park entered a float in the water carnival.
Row boats from our park lagoon were drydocked
till they had been decorated by the young park—
goers. The floats were then placed in the pool for
the show. Victory Park, true to its name, carried
out a patriotic theme with sailor lads and Uncle
Sam. A crew from another park transformed their
lowly rowboat into a colorful gondola with be-
sashed gondoliers who poled it around the pool.
After the floats had been judged, the boats were
moored at one side so that they did not interfere
with the program.

All talent for the show was donated with the
exception of the 14-piece orchestra which reduced
its usual fee more than half. The program featured
an underwater escape act, in which a magician,
bound hand and foot with ropes and chains, was
tossed from the high board into the pool. After
some anxious moments on the part of the audience,
he surfaced free in 18 seconds.

A water ballet of 12 local girls, drilled by the
head swimming instructor, featured precision swim-
ming and pattern floating.

During the season we were on the lookout for
exceptionally good divers who might appear on
our show. We interspersed the exhibition with
comic dives by the clowns—members of our own
pool staff—and found that attention was better to
all the fancy diving as a result.

The enthusiastic applause which greeted the in—
troduction of the Urbana Park Board Commis-
sioners showed how much the spectators appreci—
ated the efforts of these men in providing such
entertainment.

The final number on the show was an acrobatic
balancing .act by a Gymkana troupe of three men
and a girl. They performed their difficult and thrill-

ing tricks on the sun deck along the side of the
pool.

As they completed their act with a breath—taking

“high flyer,” the orchestra swung into the strains
of “Thank You for a Lovely Evening” and Ur-

bana’s 1946 Water Carnival was brought to a
successful close.

RECREATION

 

Goin' Fishin',
Camper?

By HARLAN METCALF
National Recreation Association

T JUST DOESN’T make sense. The major objec—
I tive of camping from the camper’s standpoint is
Fun. Fishing is fun and has been since man
first inhabited the earth. More money is Spent in
the United States on the purchase of fishing
licenses and fishing tackle than on all other athletic
sports put together, baseball and football included.
Camps are or could be the ideal natural environ-
ment for fishing and fishing instructions. But with
very few exceptions, fishing, if provided for. in
camps at all, is the poorest taught sport activity.
Yes, the camp circular mailed to attract campers
mentions fishing as a camp activity, and often car-
ries pictures of boys posing with nice looking fish
(caught by a cook or a visiting dad). But what
does the actual camp actually do to teach campers
this thrilling and life—time recreation?

Fishing is taken for granted—so nothing is done
about it. Other recognized camp activities are
planned for and taught. Here’s what happens to
fishing. For the third rainy day it’s rained litters
of cats and dogs. Campers are restless, noisy and

hard to control. Counselor tempers are short.

Camp directors tear their hair (if they have any).
Then comes inspiration. Why not let a lot of the
campers go fishing?

At luncli the director beams on his campers and
genially announces that he has arranged the after—
noon program so that all boys who have passed
their swimming and boating requirements may go
fishing with counselors Jones, Smith and Williams.
Some of the boys applaud this announcement. It
looks like an opportunity for adventure at least.
Instructions are given about how to dress and
when to meet. The lists of boys going with par-
ticular counselors are announced. The groups
start out.

The results of the expedition are not officially
announced during dinner nor-yet at the evening
campfire. But rumors reveal what happened.
Smith and his group failed to do any fishing at all.
He apparently couldn’t find any sort of bait to use

MAY 1947 '

-—-—not even fish worms—and he and the boys got
soaking wet tramping through grass and wet
branches looking for places to dig. Jones’ boatload
of campers came home early in great excitement,
Jones painfully bearing a bait-casting plug in his
left ear. _ '

Williams and his group arrived shivering and
dripping with scarcely time to dry out, warm up
and dress for supper. But they had a 10-inch
perch. One of the smaller boys had fitted up a
handline, baited it, and got the line tangled up
trying to throw it over the stern of the boat. The
other boys and counselor were too busy fishing to
help him untangle the line so the little fellow spent
the whole afternoon with wet soft fingernails trying
to get it undone. He was a persistent youngster,
however, and was still working on the line when
the counselor ordered the anchor up and started
rowing back to get himself warm. The little boy’s
line was being trolled behind the boat. The inter-
mittent jerks of the baited hook relayed from the
industrious little fingers were too much fOr a yel—
low perch so it struck, was hooked and pulled into
the boat by the proud and excited boy.‘ '

General result of the fishing that afternoon—all
got back to camp chilly and wet (several boys
later came down with colds) and enthusiasm for
fishing died down and out. The chief doubted
whether fishing was a worthwhile camp activity.
The little boy with the perch seemed to think fish-
ing was fine.

Manifestly this camp did not have a real fishing
program. They could have had one and all camps
with lake or stream facilities should have one. But
fishing cannot be taken for granted. It must be
planned months ahead of the opening of camp and
the plans should be refiected in budget and camp
staff. At least one or more counselors should be
given the direction of fishing activities as his
major responsibility” In some camps the nature
counselor (if qualified) will welcome the chance to
be responsible because of the genuine motivation
it provides for many areas of nature study.

A functional camp fishing program will be tied
in with, and strengthen a vital camp nature recrea-
tion program—be tied in with, and strengthen a
vital camp crafts program, and contain a compre-
hensive program of instruction in apprOpriate fish-
ing techniques.

Nature and Fishing

The wise nature counselor realizing that camp-
ers are interested in fish and fishing might well
consider use of some of the following activities in
his program:

63

The Search for Fish Bait as a
Phase of Nature Recreafion

Earthworms—Take excursions to look for fish
worms. Turn over flat rocks, boards and logs that
have been lying in the same place for a long time
over rich soil. Dig in soil made constantly damp
and rich from waste drains or unplanted garden
areas. Explain the role earthworms play in en—
riching top soil and how they do it.

Night Crawlers—To add adventure, the nature
counselor without saying anything about it ahead
of time (but preparing the counselors and with
permission of the director) might come quietly to
a cabin full of campers and whisper, “Any of you
fellows game to go on a night crawler hunt? OK,
dress quietly and meet me on the ball diamond in
ten minutes with your flashlights. Don’t let any of
the other campers see or hear you.” Then the boys
are introduced to the art of catching night crawl-
ers. Use the best lawn area you have (shortest,
greenest, best kept grass). If a golf course (with
frequently sprinkled greens) is within a half mile,
go there. Keep the light on the crawler, “move
slowly without noise or vibration, reach slowly
toward the worm, determine which end of the
worm is in the hole and which free—then pounce
on the worm section at point of its entrance to the
hole. If you arrest him hold on to him as he pulls
and wait till he relaxes. Then you pull and he’s all
yours. If you pull when he does he’ll likely be only
part yours (the smallest part). Keep the worms
fresh for the next day’s fishing by placing in a
box or can with fresh dewy blades of grass or in
good earth.

Watch Professionals Fish — Take a group of
"campers along a stream or lake shore to see a
heron hunt his supper. The Green Heron will
perhaps be the easiest to see, but he, along with
other members of the heron .tribe, must be stalked
with patience. Wear subdued colors making good
camouflage, and make very slow movements—if
any. Watch how the heron stands immobile on
his stick-like legs for minutes on end. Slowly and
with great deliberation he stalks forward toward
his prey (a minnow or frog). When his legs have
taken him close enough, watch his head and neck.
The neck previously coiled in “quest”—ion mark
now ever so slowly uncoils and the head and bill
are just barely moving forward and downward.
You hold your breath. Slashl and the sword-like
bill and head are thrust through the silver pool of
water, and out it comes with frog or fish. If you
make a fast motion the bird will rise on crow-like
wings, quack a few times and—trailing his long

64

legs-—,fly away from you along the stream for 50
to 200 yards to another favorite pool. There he will
give you another lesson in fishing if you have the
Indian skill to approach properly.

Frogs, Grasshoppers and Crawfish—Lead other
adventure-packed expeditions to capture frogs,
crawfish and grasshoppers for fish bait. Look for
frogs along banks of streams with overhanging
grass or small rocky, fern-draped ledges where
they will see you coming first and dive to safety
unless you use the stalking skill of the heron. If

'you have made a net with a long handle in the

crafts shop you can perhaps extend your reach
enough to hunt frogs in a swampy pond but don’t
get stuck in the mire. A net will help a lot in
catching grasshoppers, although it’s more sport
with bare hands and more exercise too. Fat “straw-
berry” or “calico” bass can be caught with grass-
hoppers as can trout. Frogs, minnows, and craw-
fish (craw-dads) are more popular with bass and
pickerel. It’s really fun wading a stream slowly
and carefully (remember the heron way) looking
for crawfish under flat rocks. ‘Get your fingers
under the rock and very carefully lift it up and to
one side or turn it over, then wait till the murky
or cloudy water clears away. Discovering one or
more juicy craw—dads exposed where the stone has
been is quite a thrill. Catching is even greater ex—
citement. Remember, due to its powerful tail its
easiest and fastest way to travel'is backward. So
approach from the rear so slowly the craw-dad
doesn’t realize your hand is moving and start your
final grab when you are close enough to be sure of
him. A craw-dad up to 2% inches or so can be
caught comfortably in your hand with a grab.
With a bigger craw-dad, try to come from behind
and catch his body (behind the clipper) with
thumb and forefinger. At any rate avoid being
pinched by his clippers. A short handled net held
behind him is a help, for with the other hand to
distract him, you can frequently chase the craw-dad
into the net.

A culinary adventure worth introducing to
campers is the cooking and eating of crawfish tails
(and clippers, too, if big enough). They can be
boiled, shelled and served alone, or in a salad on
water cress or with wild lettuce (lactua varosa) or
they can be fried, shelled and eaten alone or with
fried puffballs. Salt and pepper to taste, of course,
if you have thOught to carry some along. Crawfish
are every bit as tasty and nutritious as shrimp.

Catching Minnows for Bait—is as much fun as
catching the game fish with the minnows. Use a
small trim flexible shoot or switch, five or six feet
long for the rod or pole. Willow or box-elder

RECREATION

 

would be excellent. Use about six feet of light
line (ordinary string or thread will do). For hooks
use the smallest you can get, the kind used for
tying trout Hies. Better yet, use ordinary straight
pins bent into hooks. If a wire fence is handy, bend
the pointed half of the pin around the wire or
around -a tough oak twig or a small Hat rock to
make the hook. A piece of earthworm or grass—
hopper % ” to 1A ” long is plenty of bait for one
book. Find deepish little pools in a stream with
minnows and try them out. Make no fast motions
or vibrations as you approach the pool, and ease
the baited hook into the pool carefully. If the hook
does not sink quickly enough a small split shot
sinker can be pinched on the line 3” or 4” above
the hook, or you can have a paper clip or a very

small elongated stone fastened on by means of the,

clove hitch.

Then comes the fun. If one minnow finds the
hook and gets interested, several others will appear
by magic and they will scrap to have the honor of
being caught like week-old chicks over a night
crawler (try this out also at the nearest friendly

/"
4.

farmer’s). Light flexible rods will bend from the,
vicious strikes of the minnows and whenyou catch
one you will have experienced all the thrills of
catching bigger fish. You can expect some of your
minnows to dip off the hook (especially those
made of bent pins with no barbs) before you can
swing them into your minnow pail. A small mesh
net of mosquito netting will help solve this prob—
lem, or you can catch them over again. Keep
changing the water in the minnow pail eVery
twenty minutes or so to give the minnows plenty
of oxygen, until you use them for bait.

The nature counselor should be able to identify
the various minnows caught, or direct the campers
to the proper books in the camp library, for they
will probably catch several varieties, and the coun—
selor should be ready for questions.

One of the tastiest desserts for bass in most of
the northern lakes of the United States is the
“blunt nosed minnow,” (hybrinchus notatus, if you
insist on being that kind of person). The female of
this species swims bottom side up under rocks and
deposits her eggs on the bottoms of the rocks so

 

MAY 1947

Courtesy Kentucky Fish and Wildlife Department

65"

(,6,

1
’4

they stick tight in compact formations—about one
or two square inches worth, each egg about the
size of an ordinary pin head.

These blunt nosed minnows are generally caught
with a large cylindrical net of mosquito netting two
and one-half to three feet long and one foot and a
half in diameter, open at both top and bottom.
Catching fish with an open bottom net seems at
first impossible but here is the way it’s done.

Have campers make in the crafts shop nets of
the type above described. Use a circle of wire for
the top or two or three willow or green hickory
wythes bound together in a 1100p about I%’ in
diameter. Take a piece of mosquito netting about
57”-60” long and a yard wide. Sew one of the
long edges of the netting on to the circular h00ps
(it should be about right). Where the netting
meets, sew it together to make the cylinder with
open top and bottom. Next find a piece of chain,
cut it to about 57”, and wire the two ends together.
(Chain should be %,”-%” in diameter.) Sew the
free circular bottom end of the netting around the
circle of chain, and your net is complete. Now for
the blunt nosed minnow.

Find an area of the lake shore where the water
is shallow with wgradually s10ping and rocky bot-
tom. A variety of fiatish rocks on the bottom vary-
ing in size will be best. Wade slowly in the shal-
low rocky area about knee-deep or less, looking
for a flat rock 9” to 12” in diameter. Lower the
net over this rock. The chain will weight the net
to the bottom. With your hands adjust this chain
around the rock so that it is close to the bottom
and traps within the net anything that might be
under the rock. Now lift the rock up out of the net
(without disturbing the chain) and turn it over
and look at the bottom side of the rock. Look for
the mass of compact, fiatly adhering fish eggs. If
there are none there, toss the rock aside, pull up
the net and try your luck on another rock. If yOu
find the eggs, drop the rock carefully outside the
net and concentrate now on catching the minnow
that is almost certainly in your net. Wait for the
cloudy water to settle, of course, and drive the

minnow into a pocket or fold of the net. Catch it
with your hand and place it in the minnow pail.
Some campers can carry minnow pails or take
turns for the honor of carrying it while others can
use the net or nets.

What a ripe atmosphere for a counselor to ex-
plain various methods different species have of
making nests and laying eggs. Counselors, before
the trip, should have explored to see if fiat nosed
minnows are abundant in the lake. He should also
have noted places where sunfish and bass have
made nests earlier in the season.

Dief of Fish

Fish, like humans, vary their diet somewhat at
different seasons of the year probably because at
different seasons certain foods are more abundant
than others. A nature counselor or one in charge
of fishing should catch a bass—for example—and
open its stomach to show campers the diet the bass
had a craving for that day. A bass caught late in
the afternoon ust before sundown would probably
have a fuller stomach than one caught early in the
afternoon. Furthermore, thefood Caught by the bass
will not have become digested beyond recognition
or identification. Such examinations of bass
stomachs will prove most interesting to campers.
What you find is a gamble-—minnows, frogs, craw-
fish, insects, helgrammites and others. The coun-
selor could well use this opportunity to point out
other interesting anatomical details (mouth, teeth,
gills, esophagus, eggs) and their physiological
functions. At this or some other time opportunity
should be taken to demonstrate methods of clean-
ing fish—both how to scale and how to make
fillets. The counselor can explain how the age of a
fish can be determined from a scale. In the process
of cleaning, various parasites may be discovered.
Each should provoke an interesting story from the
counselor and questions from campers.

These are but a few of the countless ways in
which fishing and fishlore can make more dynamic
and meaningful a camp’s nature recreation pro-
gram.

 

Wilbert E. Longfellow

WILEER’I" E. LONGFELLow, who retired last December as director of the American Red Cross water

safety service, died in Washington, March 18, 1947, at the age. of 65 years. He served with the
Red Cross for 34 years and had a large circle of appreciative friends in_ the national recreation move-
ment. The National Recreation Association was represented at a recent dinner in his honor at the time

of his retirement.

66

RECREATION

 



Neighborhood House

Group Work in Action

(DUNG PEOPLE will usually respond to. group
Y activities in the pursuit of new interests. Al-

though we realize that it takes a good program
to compete with the lure of city streets, we believe
that boys and girls respond eagerly to activities
which involve a challenge to skill. Certainly they
want jitterbug and lively music, but not all of the
time. The recognition of this need for challenge
is at the heart of program planning at Grosvenor
House. Each project is designed to keep interest
alive and expanding into new and hitherto unex-

plored fields.

Bicycle Project

The King Cobras Boys Club, for instance, proved
that a group project can begin with a mutual plan
and with creative leadership can lead to exciting
experiences for all the members of the group. This
group of 14 teen-age boys represented various na-
tionalities. They decided to hunt about the neigh-
borhood and buy an old bicycle which they could
“make over” in the shop class. \

They encountered considerable difficulty in 10-
cating one. Finally a member of the Board of
Directors sent them an old bicycle belonging to
her son. Curiously and carefully, they inspected
the battered and worn sections and discovered that
some of the parts were tied together and rolled up
in an old gunny sack for safe keeping. They
carried their treasure to the shop and with en-
thusiasm began dismantling it and arranging
the parts in little piles. Then they gathered
around closer for the cautious task of inspect-
ing, cleaning, oiling, polishing, repairing and
replacing various parts.

The King Cobras moved on the wings of
spontaneous adventure. Their plans for remak-
ing that bicycle presented new problems as the
skillful hand of their shop teacher and the en-
couraging glance of an able group leader
spurred them on. They undertook many a dif-
ficult task, and we learned that p001 rooms and
street corners had lost their charm for these
boys after school. They were busy making
trips to machine shops and hardware stores
far and Wide as they searched for such items
as new spindles, ballbearings and spokes.

MAY 1947

By DELITE M. MOWER

Headworker
Grosvenor Neighborhood House

New York City

News of the project spread rapidly through the
house and neighborhood. Members from differ-
ent clubs and sh0p classes hurried to Grosvenor
House in the evening at 7 o’clock. They brought
new friends who wanted to help with the bicycle
project. Some of the newcomers showed special
skill with the fine parts, and the project soon be-
came an inter-club affair. When the chairman of
the original group was asked about the project he
said, “Oh that belongs to everyone now. There’s
work for all. We work together on the bicycle and .
we’re going to give a big party and contribute the
proceeds to the house and use the bicycle as a door
prize.”

As the weeks went on committees were kept
busy. Everybody took part. Tickets for the big
party found their way to a cross section of homes
in a community-wide promotion. The photogra-
phy group had taken pictures of the various stages
of the work so that the poster class might be kept
up-to-date with material for publicity. Delegates .
from the clubs organized co-ed committees, where
each member could use his talents. Preparation
involved plans for hospitality, decorations, refresh-
ments, ticket promotion, floor committees, music.
and entertainment.

Bicycle project

 

A WVS Photo

67

s
M”

As the evening for the gala event arrived the
house was packed to capacity. Boys and girls
dressed in their very best clothes and finest man-
ners greeted old and new members, board, parents,
and contributors. As the bright, shiny, red bicycle
was wheeled into the auditorium, the group re-
sponsible was very proud of its accomplishments.

We were especially pleased to note how the
work on the bicycle encouraged the repairing of
house property. Some members of the group re—
conditioned small tricycles and wagons belonging
to the kindergarten, others brought furniture from
home to repair in the shop.

An Indian Project—For Better Understanding

Another group of boys, ranging in age from 10
to I 3 years, decided on an Indian lore project.
They wanted, they thought, to write a play.

At staff meetings, leaders had been very much
concerned about the clannishness of this group of
boys. They were antagonistic, cruel to boys of dif-
ferent racial strains and religious faiths. Talks and
stories had not helped them to be more under—
standing or tolerant. Nor had international dishes
in cooking classes, tournaments with other groups,
plays. The Indian project, however, seemed to ap—
peal to their creative imagination.

As they progressed with the writing of the
_ script in group meetings, they found that they re—
quired more material because they had exhausted
all the books on Indian lore in the library. Mem—
bers of the New York junior League sent more
books, and volunteers helped find more material.

While the boys pondered and discussed the early
traditions of the Indians, leaders pointed out such
Indian traits as courage, bravery, loyalty, honesty
and faith in each other.

After the script was written and they began
dramatizing, they realized that they needed
girls for such characters as Pocahontas and
Minnehaha. They needed, too, boys of differ—
ent heights. Filling these needs brought vari—
ous nationalities together and at the same time
gave the leader a chance to stimulate a wider
acceptance of other groups as the boys came
to appreciate the skills and talents represented.
[Working and playing together had a ten-

' ncy to break down racial barriers and to set
st dards for better group feeling and indi-
vidual conduct. Properties and scenery had to
be made. The boys made a grotesque totem
pole in the shop and worked with zeal on the
costumes. Properties such ashead-gear, masks,
drums, peace—pipes, campfire effects, toma—
hawks, bows and arrows were made. Little

68

hands were kept very busy as they fashioned and
created designs involving the use of wood, wool,
leather, paper, cardboard, cloth, crayons, paint,
and a variety of tools.

Th'ese boys worked hard to learn the Indian
dances and the _rhythmic repetition and crescendo
of the early music appeared to have a stirring
effect on them. They needed extra space because
they had recruited from the schools and streets
new members for the group. They arranged for
the use of a gymnasium in a neighborhood agency.

They finally gave two very fine entertainments,
one for children and the other for adults and re—
ceived many compliments on the results. We were
gratified by the better undersfanding of each other
and especially by the large participation in inter-
group activity.

The value of such interest—building activities is
of immense importance. They give a great deal of
pleasure and prepare the members for richer rec-
reation possibilities.

 
 
 

Doing for Others

ise leaders and thoughtful parents recognize
the importance of teaching their children the pleas-
ure of giving. Doing for Others is a project spon—
sored by a group of little girls. They promoted a
friendship box project. They began by collecting
cigar boxes and colorful pictures. They made cut—
outs and decorated attractive boxes which were
filled with hair ribbons, toothbrushes, soap, wash
cloths, bobby socks, notebooks, crayons, pencils,
barettes, combs and handkerchiefs.

Audience

 

AWI’S Photo

RECREATION

When all the boxes were ready, their leader ac-
companied these girls to the AWVS where their
friendship boxes were presented to be sent to other
little girls overseas. ,

Boys did their share, too. They built a treasure
chest, painted and decorated it with plaques made
by a hammered metal craft group. Then they col-
lected books and filled the chest. This, too, was
sent abroad. - ’

Special Interests

Social music and creative dramatics can mean
a lot to children. We planned a musical, using a
simplified version of. the old and loved Hansel and
Gretel Operetta.

We began singing in individual groups. Sepa-
rate groups came to the auditorium and listened
to the music for pleasure. Then we introduced the
story and the songs to the children. They were
asked to consider choosing the parts to be sung by
talented members. The cast was selected and the
parts were learned while small artists-tO-be worked
with the art teacher on scenery and prOperties.

From a nearby woodwork concern the young-
sters lugged armfuls of laths for use in building the
framework for the scenery. This foundation was
then covered with large sheets of paper and painted
to represent such scenes as the gingerbread house,
the forest, the cage, the fireplace, the kitchen cup-
board. ‘

One of our board members, a gifted musician,
worked to help develOp the production. Volunteers
and university students carefully created the angel
costumes, using heavy silver paper for the wings
and crowns. The children thought that such items

Friendship boxes

 

AWVS Photo

MAY 1947

as the real gingerbread cookies helped make the
play seem more real. ’
Parents and friends proudly watched the pro-
duction and were thrilledwith the results. The
mothers stated that they hoped that they might be
of more assistance as the next play was developed.

Playgrounds
or Reformatories

"ALARGE PROPORTION of the criminals in the
country are under 22. And the number is

increasing.

~ “What causes that? Children in Holland and

England, in Sweden and Switzerland don’t act

that way.

“This question so disturbed Tom Clark, Attorney
General of the United States, that he called a great
National Conference for the Prevention and Con-
trol of Juvenile Delinquency, held in Washington.

“In general terms, the remedy can only be ‘a
good home and a wholesome community for all
our young people. And that in turn demands an
attack upon some of our most basic social prob-
lems—family security, better housing, more ef-
fective education, more adequate and accessible
health and medical care, better provision for wel-
fare services, more chances for good, healthy rec-
reation, and above all, a community awareness Of
the character Of the problems and a willingness to
deal with it as its roots.’

“The conclave explored and reported in detail on
all Of these—and every other conceivable ap-
proach. It considered community co-ordination,

institutional treatment, juvenile courts, the role
of the police, recreation, housing, youth par-
ticipation, citizen participation, child guidance,
the church, the school, the home, rural aspects,
case work and statistics.

“Undoubtedly within these comprehensive
examinations the answers are to be found.
Studying them will make manifest what ought
to be done.

“It begins to look as if economy, in the sense
Of saving—~not spending—money is an impos-
sibility. The sole question is' what we shall
spend it upon. We are presented an unavoid-
able choice. Which investment will pay best in
the long run—a playground or a reformatory ?”
——Ralph W. Page in The Philadelphia Eve-
m'ng Bulletin, November 23, 1946.

69

Optimists and Junior Optimists

By HAROLD D. MORGAN
Director. Municipal Athletics
Milwaukee. Wisconsin

HE OPTIMIST CLUB of Milwaukee, a so—called
Tservice club, was founded in 1917, and from

its beginning it took an active part in the youth
life of the community. The Junior Optimist boys’
club program was conceived and organized in Mil-
waukee in 1923 by Henry Scarborough, still active
at the age of 86 years. The work has been carried
on by Optimist International until today there are
Junior Optimist Clubs throughout the United
States and Canada.

Observers believe that boys have a great influ-
ence on each other—you can set a boy to influence
a boy. It is a great social service then to change a
gang into a club. But the expression “gang” should
not be accepted as referring to the slums only. Any
natural unguided grouping of boys, regardless of
neighborhood, constitutes a gang.

Experience has taught that practically every
boy can benefit from the type of program spon-
sored by the Junior Optimists. The Junior Optim—
ist Clubs have as their goal the very line ideal of
creating a boy who has so learned to live that he
will be an asset to his community throughout life.
. Surely this is an objective of the highest order.

How do the Optimists strive to build this boy
and man who is in harmony with his surround-
ings? They try to instill in each boy a sense of the
four social virtues—optimism, citizenship, service,
and sportsmanship. The boy who acts-in a manner
that shows he has a sense of each of these watch-
words will be a man of fine character later on. But
the Optimist Clubs not only say that we must
teach our boys these virtues, they do that which is
all important in this case—provide opportunity to
exercise and make these virtues permanent.

The whole Junior Optimist program is so planned
as to provide for every boy a chance to learn
the meaning of and to be able to practice these
paramount virtues. The very spirit of a club—a
place where boys gather to have a good time—pro-
vides opportunity for optimism. The club program
of current events, talks, debates, trips, the plan of
meeting itself, tends to make every boy realize just
what his task of citizenship is. The Christmas bas-

70

kets, parties, and innumerable other things the
boys do give them a chance to acquire a sense of
service that is so important today in such a com-
plex world. The complete program of sports pro-
vides opportunity for the attainment of true sports-
manship, for, by its very nature of offering variety,
it takes the emphasis off one sport star and places
it where it belongs——on the all-round athlete who
plays for the fun of playing. '

One of the most outstanding all-city service
projects of the Junior Optimists is the Annual
Bike Safety Campaign. For a week the boys are
taught to teach others accepted safety practices.
Thousands of special blotters listing rules of safe
bike riding are distributed throughout the city.
Three minute Speeches by selected boys are given
at their schools. This campaign has the enthusi—
astic support and assistance of the Milwaukee
Police Department and the Safety Commission,
and has been widely written up and copied in other
communities.

Other Activities.

In addition to its work through the Junior
Optimist Clubs, the Milwaukee Optimist Club
sponsors several annual events for the boys and
girls of five orphanages and the school for the
deaf. These events include a trip to the Shrine
Indoor Circus, a costume roller skating party, an
indoor swim meet and an outdoor skating meet, a
field day for deaf children, attendance at basket-
ball, football and baseball games, industrial tours,
Christmas parties. These special events are labeled,
and it is safe to say that these events over a period
of years have spread a large amount of sunshine
in places where it will do the most good. Practi-
cally every official of the city of Milwaukee has
lauded the youth work of the Optimist Club, espe—
cially its Junior Optimist program. The late Carl
F. Zeidler, Mayor of Milwaukee, said “There is
hope in this world as long as we have an organiza-
tion like Junior Optimist Clubs. We honor opti-
mism as an institution because of its idealism. It is
up to us to glorify a decent and noble life. As seen
by the progress made in Milwaukee by Junior
Optimists, American youth can be depended upon
to respond.” In 1941 a plaque was awarded to the
Optimist Club by the Government Service League
for training future citizens in the Junior Optimist

RECREATION

 

Clubs, adjudged Milwaukee’s outstanding civic any success that it has had, much of the credit

activity. belongs to the School Board, Department of Mu-
The Optimist Club is proud of its Junior Opti- nicipal Recreation for its wholehearted cooperation
mist Club program and its sunshine work, but in ‘over the many years.

 

Competition and / or Cooperation?

IN THE OCTOBER, 1946, issue of National Parent—Teacher the following request appears in the section

devoted to what’s happening in education—— “I should like to have you discuss school contests,
the pros and cons. Contests make use of the competitive principle. The world today needs to know
more about the cooperative principle.” William D. Boutwell makes the following reply:

“This makes me think of the principal of a very progressive school who told me that coopera—
tion reigned supreme in her institution; the children didn’t even keep score in games. As proof of the
program’s value she offered the evidence that her students, when they went to college, ‘made the very
highest marks l’

“Why assume that the competitive and cooperative principles war with one another? Isn’t a suc—
cessful football team an achievement in coOperation engaged in competition? And shall we turn our backs
on the fact that much of our American way of life is based on the competitive spirit? Or can we assume
that a cooperative society can get along without competition? Soviet Russia has the piecework system in
industry and has raised a champion worker, Stakhanov, into a national symbol. It has even made him a
verb. .

_ “Competition has been under a shadow in many school systems for various reasons. It sometimes
threatens the students’ balance of .interest. Or there are too many competitions. Or outside agencies try
to use the school machinery for their own purposes by fostering competitions. The easiest——though not
the wisest—way to stop the baby’s crying is to throw it out the window.

“In recent years educators have been taking a more realistic attitude toward competitions. The
National Association of Secondary School Principals has set up a committee on contests, festivals, and
tournaments, and this group annually issues a list of contests that meet its standards. Educators also ask
that competitions fit in with the on-going school program, so that the course of study is not disrupted.
And rules against extensive travel by teams have been introduced.

“So the question is not one of competition versus cooperation. Rather it is this: How shall we
secure for our chidren the advantages of each and avoid the disadvantages of excessive or unwise use of

either ?”-—News Letter on College Physical and Health Education, Athletics and Recreation, November,
1946, Washington, D. C.

 

BOYS' POCKETS—“The pocket is the boy’s first museum. The boy without a pocket is not a boy. The
pocket is the first home of the collecting instinct. It is the child’s right. A game, originated by a Scout
executive, consisted of each boy emptying his pocket. The lights were turned out and the boys were
told to reclaim their treasures by feeling. They did it. This was vastly significant in. its revelation of
personalities. Each object was a budding interest. It stood out as making a point of contact, a foreglow
of delight in what might become a lifetime satisfaction.”

-——Wt'lliam G. Vinal, quoted in Freedom for Fun, Chicago Recreation Commission

MAY 1947 71

Future Foresters

FTER A CLASS demonstration with Junior For-
A esters in one of the Omaha grade schools a
boy said: “Gee, I surely like this forestry
work. I like it better than school.” There is some—
thing about trees that appeals to this youngster’s
imagination and stimulates his fancy and curiosity
to the pointwhere he falls in love with the subject.
A: large proportion of Junior Foresters respond in
the same way. Many of them are not satisfied with
an hour’s period of instruction and are delighted
to prolong the session.
' When 'we first started forestry training in the
Omaha elementary schools,* I wanted to make
sure that the students were really interested in the
study oftttrees and were not using it as an excuse
to miss other recitations. \Ve have fully proved

*See RaCREATIoN—October, 1946, pp. 359 ff.

 

72

By F. J. PIPAL

City Forester
Omaha, Nebraska

that this is not the case with most of them. Many
quickly develop a deep interest in trees and put
their knowledge into practical use whenever an
opportunity presents itself.

The three R’s and other related subjects have
too little that is new, unexplored, or mysterious
about them. You just learn the facts as well as
possible in the allotted time. But trees and nature!
Here’s a wide, open field with unlimited oppor-
tunities for exploration; a challenge to find the
answers to many questions; an incentive for choos-
ing a future life vocation. Most boys and girls are
explorers by nature, need little coaxing to take
part in new and exciting experiences. There is
something about trees that challenges the ability
to solve mysteries. a

A tree to most people is just a tree.'—with roots,

RECREATION

trunk, branches and leaves. Trees seem to grow
like Topsy. Insects attack and damage some of
them but, as one lady expressed it, “the bugs have
to live too.” Few laymen go further into the

matter.

Learning

It is surprising how quickly children will grasp
and understand the chemistry of plant life. They
learn quickly, too, the important functions of all
parts of a tree, particularly the green inner bark,
which carries the manufactured sap throughout all
parts of the tree to make new wood, roots, bark,
and other needed parts.

After all of this is explained to Junior Forest-
ers a question is asked: “Knowing the value and
importance of trees in our lives how many of you
will carve his initials in the bark, break off branches,
or otherwise damage the trees?” Not a single hand
goes up. “Very well. Now how many of you will
always try to protect the trees against any damage
of that kind?” Every hand goes up, and every boy
and girls means it, too. Trees become their friends.
They learn gladly how to take care of them, and
and everything new they‘ learn about them becomes
a source of pleasure and satisfaction. And that is
recreation. The highest form of recreation.

Creed

The Junior Foresters have the following creed:

As a Junior Forester'

I believe that trees are one of Nature’s best gifts to
humanity and deserve our efforts to preserve them.

I will always avoid bruising, breaking, or otherwise
damaging trees and will try my best to keep others
from doing the same, whether it 'be around my
home, on streets, in the city parks, or elsewhere.

I will try to keep the trees properly pruned, kept free
from insects and diseases.

I will study and learn all I can about trees and the
proper care of them, so that I can do [my part in
beautifying not only my home, my school and
neighborhood, *but the entire city in which I live.

I will share my knowledge with others whom I will
try to interest in good tree culture and conser-
vation.

“MORE AND BETTER TREES,” will always be my slogan.

It is surprising how faithfully some of the young-
sters carry out this pledge. Ronnie, a fifth grader,
was president of his school’s club. One day he saw
the neighborhood bully up in a tree for no other
purpose, according to Ronnie’s deduction, than
damage. He gave the bully—who was much bigger
-——a lecture on trees and asked him to come down.

The bully came down—and blacked both of Ron- '

nie’s eyes. Did Ronnie become discouraged and
lose his interest in trees? He did not! “I’m going
to work even harder now,” he said, “to protect the

MAY 1947

trees against any injury.” He wants to become a
professional forester.

One day, we discussed in a class the "process of
the purification of air, the trees taking in carbon
dioxide and sending back pure oxygen. There was
a potted plant in the classroom and one youngster
wanted to know how long the class could remain
alive if all fresh air were excluded and this plant
was the only source of pure air.

I put the question right back in his lap and sug-
gested he see a biology professor in the local uni-
versity and discuss the problem with him. Four
boys were selected to see the professor and the
meeting was arranged. During the intervening
time these boys talked, read, questioned, debated,
and dreamed about trees. They tried everything
and asked everybody for information about trees,
particularly the so-called photosynthesis process.
Their teacher said they didn’t play, and she doubted
if they had slept or had eaten much during that
time. Regular school work was disposed of as
quickly as possible, and all available time was
spent in learning all they could find about the
science of trees.

Finally the day of the meeting arrived. The boys,
hungry for knowledge, were ready with the potted
plant question and a dozen others—all intelligent
questions, some of them highly original. The ses-
sion was very interesting with these 11- and 12-
year-old boys. They probably learned more about
trees during that short but exciting period than
they would in some regular course. The local
newspaper published their picture and story, and
the boys, very happy about it, thought they had
one of the best and most profitable times of their
lives.

Following this episode many of the other Junior
Forester clubs wanted questions and problems to
solve. “Where does the green color come from in
the trees? How did evergreens become so and why
and how do they survive the winter? Where does
the oxygen come from in winter when there are
no leaves on the trees to purify the air? What
causes the leaves to fall?” These questions and
many others were assigned and reports were made
in following sessions.

By-Products

One of the most valuable by-products of this
kind of activity is the fact that it turns the child’s
mind from mischievous and delinquent acts into
channels of wholesome thinking and reasoning and
helps to develop healthy and desirable traits of
character. We feel certain that this form of recre-

73

ation has considerable effect on the future life of
the boy or the girl, and is instrumental, in some
cases, in leading to a worthwhile and successful
profession or vocation.

The- teacher-sponsor of the original forestry club
in Omaha makes this comment: “Where can a
teacher find a project which will help children to
become better citizens, teach them how to use
their leisure time to the best advantage and at the
same time instill practicability? Junior Forestry is
the answer.

“Children love growing things and want to learn
about them. We also know that they learn best by
doing. Through demonstrations, programs and
actual projects worked out on the school grounds

and at their homes, they work on their problems,
not just in theory, but in actual reality. They learn
to plant, prune, fertilize and water properly. They
also learn to stake and wrap trees, and how to
control insects and diseases. Technical words come
to life for them. Words such as cambium and
chlorophyll soon have a real meaning, and are not
just meaningless words from a reference book.

“A deep appreciation of nature, in all its bewil-
dering glory, develops as they care for the trees
they have planted.

“I have Sponsored and taught Junior Forestry
for four years, and find that this work lends itself
more toward real teaching than any science project
I have ever attempted.”

' Padua Hills - -
Theater in Action

By PHILIP L. SEMAN
Honorary Chairman, Chicago Recreation Commission

SHORT TIME AGO I had the joyous experience
A of visiting the Padua Hills Community Cen-
ter, a short distance from Los Angeles, near
Claremont and Pomona Colleges. Here, in a group
of red tiled buildings on a little mesa or tableland
in the foothills, a group of young Mexicans live
and work under the sponsorship of the Padua
Institute, a non-profit educational organization.
They are winning well-merited attention in per-
petuating the customs and traditions of their native
land through the medium of the theater, the arts,
the crafts, and the dance.

Padua Hills is a favored rendezvous for tens of
thousands of residents of the area who have been
captivated by the charm of the republic to the
south. It is also a “must see” item on the itinerary
of nearly every visitor to Southern California.

Around the Calendar

Situated in an ancient olive grove, the commu-
nity center is dominated by the Padua Hills Thea-
ter, where performances are staged the year round.
Dramas, comedies, and even melodramas repro-
duce the life and customs of the people of the
region, and introduce authentic costumes, songs
and dances. The plays are frequently in Spanish,

74

occasionally in English. Because they aim at Eng-
lish speaking audiences the action must be clearly

‘ understandable to anyone not familiar with Spanish.

Actors serve as hosts and hostesses for an in-
door or outdoor fiesta, 'which follows each perform—
ance. Our visit to Padua Hills was in the summer,
and the after-theater party was held in the patio
of the theater. It included all sorts of novel Mexi—
can games, song and dance entertainment, and un—
usual Mexican refreshments. These carnivals are
called “Jamaicas” after a soft drink served at such
festivals in Mexico. During the cooler weather, the
post-curtain fiesta is staged in the foyer and dining
room, and takes on the character of a Mexican tea,
or merlenda, with song and dance entertainment
and typical seasonal refreshments.

The Mexican players were organized in 1932.
Since that time they have presented 116 produc-
tions based upon the folk culture of Mexico and
old California. Padua Institute controls and oper—
ates the theater and dining room. Its purpose is to
give the highest type of entertainment and through
it to keep alive the romantic Spanish and Mexican
traditions of California and provide an opportunity
for an intimate and friendly understanding of our
Latin American neighbors. .

RECREATION

 

The Institute gathers and preserves the tradi-
tions of Mexico and .Spanish California. It also
gives a talented group of Mexican young people a
wonderful opportunity for training and‘self—ex—
pression. These yoimg people include some of
Mexican descent and many who were born in
Mexico. They are given intensive training in act—
ing, singing, dancing, elocution, and social usages.
The young ladies live in a dormitory in Claremont
about three miles from Padua Hills with a house
mother. The young men live in cabins on Padua
Hill property. During the past years many have
gone out to prominent positions in the theatrical,
educational and business world.

The community center arts and crafts studios
include ceraniics, handloom weaving (which was
discontinued during the war) and curios in their
program.

Life for the young people at Padua Hills closely
follows life in Mexico, and many of the holidays
observed in the republic are celebrated at Padua.
Each Christmas the players stage an annual pro—
duction of La Posadas, a quaint and colorful drama
reproducing the picturesque” Christmas customs of
old Mexico.

In the spring a play is dedicated to San Ysidro,
patron saint of Mexican farmers, and such national
holidays as El Crito de Dolores (Mexico’s Fourth
of July) and Cinco de M ayo (anniversary of the
Battle of Puebla) are observed with programs of
patriotic songs and dances.

Frequently the days of the Dons in Southern
California are revived with plays which include
the gay fiestas of the old ranchos introducing such
colorful dances as “La Cachucha” and “La Jota”
favorites of days when great herds of cattle roamed
the countryside.

Last summer we saw the Mexican Players in
C elaya Stop, a comedy of a Mexican railway sta-
tion written by the director of the theater.

The nature of the play gave an unusual oppor-
tunity to the players to show not only their ability
as actors, but what is more important from an
entertainment point of view, a chance to show their
splendid skills in music, song and native dances.
This was theater in the finest sense, for the play
was done in a perfectly natural manner. In spite

 

of the lack of the knowledge of the language, with
the aid of the synopsis of the play printed in the
program, the audience to a man enjoyed and un—
derstood the play throughout.

Development

In 1930, a group of residents of Claremont, site
of Claremont College, had acquired more than
2,000 acres in the Pomona Valley foothills, with
the idea of preserving the natural beauty of the
area.

At the time, rough cabins and nondescript struc-
tures which did not fit into the cultural atmosphere
of the college community were being erected. A
community center was planned with a theater of
Spanish California architecture as the dominating
feature of the project. The theater was designed
to provide a playhouse for the Claremont Commu—
nity Players.

From the first, the employees of the dining room A
were Mexican young people. The innate love of
singing and dancing and the artistic temperament
of these young folk led them to take a keen interest
in the stage activities. Their natural stage presence
and apparent talents in entertaining suggested the
possibility of self-expression in the theater. Their
first appearances on the stage were in song and
dance productions.

So zealously did they enter into the spirit of
play acting that the management soon saw the pos-
sibilities of preserving the traditions and customs
of early California and Mexico through the the-
ater. At the same time those responsible reasoned
that the plays would offer many deserving young

- Mexican folk the opportunity to develop their ar-

tistic talents and assume a more important position
in the cultural life of the community.

Even the vicissitudes of World War II, the
writer is told, failed to dampen the enthusiasm of
the players or management. In fact, blackouts,
gasoline rationing, curtailment of transportation
facilities, and similar deterrent factors seemed to
increase their enthusiasm. Now that the war is
over the sponsors have restated their determina—
tion to maintain Padua Hills as an important aid
to good intercultural relations between the United
States and Mexico.

Congratulations '-

TO THE VICTOR goes the award! The annual distinguished service award of the Inglewood, California,

Junior Chamber of Commerce was presented to Ray K. Goates for his outstanding recreation work.

As Inglewood’s recreation director, Mr. Goates has promoted social and athletic activities for boys and
girls, men and women. It is his organization and leadership which has made the competitive athletic

contests, the junior sports program, the annual city swimming championship meets, the table tennis tour—
naments and the social activities program so successful.

MAY 1947

75

 

Hugh McK. Landon

UGII McK. LANDON died at his home in India-
H napolis on April 2nd. He was one of the first
citizens of Indianapolis, a leader in the Commu-
nity Chest, president of the James Whitcomb Riley
Memorial Association and active in behalf of the
Riley Children’s Hospital, and chairman of the
board of the Fletcher Trust Company.

For about 35 years he served as a member of
the Board of Directors of the National Recreation
Association. All these years he was a sponsor of
the Association in securing the contributions for
its work in the city of Indianapolis. He served as
a member of special committees. While making
trips as president of the Harvard Alumni Associa-
tion he would arrange also to carry through special

projects for the Association. Mr. Landon’s mind:

was always active on practical recreation prob-
lems. On his own initiative he would make sug-
gestions about the program of work for the Asso—
ciation. He was not one to wait to be asked for
help but was ever ready to volunteer to assist in
this or that way. He had a deep personal interest
in the workers of the National Recreation As-
sociation. ‘

In the national recreation movement the kind
of service that Mr. Landon rendered was of price-
less value. He helped in thinking problems through,
in taking time to visit his friends in different
cities and talking with them about recreation prob-
lems. He tried to enlist the support of various
groups. He asked searching questions about the
various projects of the Association. He constantly
emphasized the fundamental principles which he
considered important if the best possible recreation
service for men, women and children was to be
built up in the various communities of the United
States.

76

Softball Rules

HE JOINT COMMITTEE ON SOFTBALL has an-

nounced that there will be no change in the
present rules in softball. Rules for 1946 will
govern play for the season of 1947. (See RECREA-
TION, May 1946.)

Arthur T. Noren, secretary-treasurer of the
committee, stated that softball players———-whose
numbers run into the thousands—have, through
their representatives, generally indicated approval
of the rather drastic changes which were in effect
during the past season, including shortening the
distance of the baseline from 60’ to 5 5’, elimina-
tion of the short fielder position, making softball a
nine man game comparable to baseball, and award—
ing a base on balls when a player is hit by a
pitched ball. The result of these changes has been
to reach more nearly a balance between offensive
and defensive play.

The committee’s report follows:

1947 rules are in effect the same as 1946 with
the following minor corrections:

Change “1946” to “I947” in all instances.

Under the. listing of members of Joint Rules
Committee on Softball change F. M. Coombs to

read Penn State College, State College, Pennsyl-
vania.

 

Rule 3, Section 7 to read, “A shoe shall be con-
sidered official in Softball games if it is (a) Made
with either canvas or leather uppers or similar
material, with or without soft rubber cleats; (b)
Made with uppers of leather or similar material
with hard rubber cleats; (c) Made with uppers
of leather or similar material with ordinary metal
sole and heel plates, the spikes of which shall in no
case extend more than % inch from the sole or
heel of the shoe. Track spikes are illegal and will

be barred.” (To all purposes this will mean that

there will be a uniform type of spike for both soft—
ball and baseball shoes.)

Permission to reprint the Rules for distribution
is granted on condition that the above directions
are followed, and that a royalty payment of $2.50
per thousand copies printed is made. Check should
be made payable to Arthur T. Noren, Secretary-
Treasurer, Joint Rules' Committee on Softball, 60
West Princeton Road, Bala—Cynwyd, Pa.

Much of the strength there is in the recreation
movement today would not be there but for the
kind of leadership which Mr. Landon gave these

many years.

RECREATION

 

WEAVER WINTARK SALES co.‘

Original Pioneers of America's Foremost Athletic Equipment
BOX 71 SHAMOKIN, PA.

 

 

Music in the Air

By HELEN LADD

Director of Music
Fall River. Massachusetts

” HERE’S music in the air
When the infant mom is nigh

“There’s music in the air
When the noon tide’s sultry beam

“There’s music in the air
When the twilight’s gentle sigh”

There’s music in the air, music morning, noon
and night, when the boys’ glee clubs of Fall
River, Massachusetts, are tuning up for their
spring concerts. Tall boys, short boys, thin boys,
fat boys; fourth graders, twelfth graders, even a
few G.I. veterans returned to finish their high
school education; boys whose parents are only one
or two generations removed from France, Portu-

78

gal, Italy, China, Syria, Africa; boys whose Yankee

forbears tilled the virgin soil of New England;
boys of all races and creeds are learning to work
together in harmony_toward a common goal—the
production of good music.

The original purpose in organizing our boys’
glee clubs in the Fall River public schools was to
try to arouse a special interest in singing and thus
to carry the boys over the change of voice period.
The music in the first six grades was going very
well at the time but the seventh grade saw a
decided drop and, although the eighth grade teach-
ers produced some very fine work, they had a hard
struggle with the tenors and basses. Only a very

RECREATION

 

 

F SANI-SOIL-SET is the practical answer to
dust annoyance problems. Here are a few of

a any good reasons why it will pay you to in-
ate this efficient dust-control medium now:

Y EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set 'eliminates dust

ance completely immediately after application.
ng waiting periods are necessary before the ground
a y for use. The dust allaying effect is accomplished
— action of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
wn dust particles.

plASTlNG—Because of its extremely low volatility
nsolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains

ve for long periods. One application per season
r 15 usually sufficient.

  

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company

Division Sales OHices:
Invasion 1 New York -. Philadelphia - Pittsburgh c Atlanta
New Orleans 0 Houston w louisvillo ' Toledo

W3

:,
n N , . ' ' i
  ' “we «’5

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,
easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by, hand-
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly
and uniformly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set

prevents the growth of grass on areas treated, and mini-
mizes dust annoyan'ce and expense in near-by houses,
stores, and laundries.

9

Write, wire or phone your nearest Gulf office
today and ask for a demonstration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have not yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below.

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company I R

3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet. “Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern, proven agent for controlling dust.”

Title.llIII.lill.l.0...ll|...ll~lI...IOIIIIOIOIOOIOOOCIIOOIIIIIIOIII

|
|
I
l
I Name............... 
I
l



small percentage of boys were interested in sing-
ing by the time they reached high school.

From listening to many music teachers talk at
conventions, it became evident to me that the prob-
lem of keeping boys singing during the change of
voice period was more or less general throughout
the country. After much thought it looked as
though boys’ glee clubs might be our solution to
this problem.

Plans and Projects

In December, 1942, a notice was sent to the
principals of grades four through twelve announc—
ing that boys’ glee clubs were to be organized and
that the work was to be purely voluntary on the
part of both pupils and teachers. Ten teachers from
10 different schools attended the first meeting. We
discussed the time of rehearsals and the materials
to be used and we set a date for the first concert.
About this entirely new project, there were many
different ideas of procedure. In fact, ideas were so
multifarious that we decided to let each teacher
make his own plans to suit his individual situation.
In some schools one music period a week was
given to the boys’ glee club and then once a month
three or four schools met to form one large glee
club. Some teachers wanted to rehearse before
school in the morning, some before the afternoon
session, some after school and some the last half
hour of the Friday afternoon session.

Materials were selected from our regular school
music books and some octavo music was purchased.
All of this music was carefully studied to be sure
that the songs were such that there would be no
strain on the voices. We definitely believe that
singing does not harm the changing voice provided
good judgment is used.

It was decided to have, each year, a special
feature as an incentive to the boys—a vocal or in-
strumental soloist, a judge to give constructive
criticism, or a special concert by an outside organ-
ization given for the participants in the boys’ glee
clubs. '

At that time the war was making us chevron
conscious so we asked the sewing department to
make black sleeve bands with a red stripe for each
year of membership in the club, a stripe to be
added for each year of service.

As the project developed it became obvious that
more than just musical impetus was to be gained.
We have in Fall River people of many races and
creeds, and in spite of the fact that America is
called the big melting pot, the various groups do
not always “melt.” Since it is common knowledge
that racial groups tend to segregate themselves, an

80

effort was made from the very. beginning to have
boys from several school districts sing together as
one club. At first there was a little friction among
members, but it was not long before they were all
working together to make their combined glee club
the best in the concert.

In an effort to develop this line of thought
further, we used a great many folk songs on ou
programs so that the boys could become familia
with the music of many nations. The fifth an
sixth grade groups chose one, two and three par
music while the clubs composed of boys fro
grades seven through twelve selected three an
four part music.

Progress

The first concert was held in May, 1943, witl
two elementary choruses, one intermediate chorus
the high school boys’ glee club, the high schoo
band, and a trombone soloist from the Bosto
Symphony Orchestra. The boys were seated in th
front of the ball so that they might hear the entir ;
program. The hall holds 900 people. Almost ever_
seat was taken with many teachers from non-par |
ticipating schools in the audience. The evenin
was a success from every angle.

\V hen school began the next September, it wa
gratifying to notice the improvement in the class
room work where glee club “veterans” were en I
rolled. When the glee club notice went out fo '
1944, 20 schools responded with enough materia
for two evenings of music. The director of musi
in Providence was engaged to attend the dress re- _
hearsal and give each group a constructive criti—
cism of its work.

In 1945, 20 schools divided into eight clubs with '
approximately 50 boys in each group swelled ou
members to 400. We decided again to have two
evenings of music with the high school band pro
viding instrumental music on one program and th
grammar school orchestra assisting on the SCCOI‘H.
with a baritone soloist invited as the guest artist.
At this concert many of the boys were proudl
wearing arm bands with three red stripes.

In 1946, 31 out of a possible 35 schools wer
represented in two concerts by I4 glee clubs witl
800 boys participating. One group of 65 singer
had 51 three—year boys in it, evidence that boys (1
retain their interest in singing from year to year.

The week after their public performances, th
boys were all invited to a concert given by the Fa
River Men’s Glee Club. - The members of thi
group became so interested in our project th
they invited the High School Glee Club to sin
with them at one of their rehearsals and gave then

   
 
 
  

RECREATIO

 

PORTER “0.38

COMBINATION

     
    

It’s a space saver! It’s a money-saver,too!

Yes, here’s a Playground Combination Set that has been care-
fully planned to solve the problem of limited space. Small
playgrounds can install the Porter No. 38, and still provide

a wide variety of healthful exercise and fun for the children.
Look at all the apparatus this one unit affords! Two Stand-

ard See-Saws, one Horizontal Bar, two Swings, a Pair of

. Flying Rings, one Trapeze, and one 16-ft. Porter Safety Slide

 

—plus the sturdy 10-ft. steel frame that’s galvanized inside WRITE FOR THE NEWEST
and out and held rigidly together for years and years with CATALOG OF FORTH;
Tested Malleable Iron fittings of exclusive Porter design. E N G I N E E R E D

The No. 38 Combination Set has price appeal, too. Write for
the attractively low figure, and complete specifications. Im-
mediate delivery!

THE J. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* §%L%E'T"Uis
Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

 

MAY 1947 " 81

a party afterwards. They now look to the boys’
glee clubs for recruits for their organization and
several of our last year’s graduates have recently
become members.

The concerts were so popular in the spring of
1946 that tickets entered the black market. Up to
this time we had thought that perhaps the boys’
glee clubs were helping to combat juvenile delin—
quency, but these dark dealings made us slightly
dubious. To avoid the black market situation and
allow more people to attend the concerts, we plan
to have three evenings of choral music this year
with 1,000 boys participating.

Results

Of course there is much hard work involved all
along the way, but the results mOre than justify
our efforts. The boys very obviously enjoy taking
part in the concerts even though they do not always
enjoy all the hard work of preparation. The carry-
over value of the glee clubs into classroom work is
gratifyingly noticeable, according to the statements
of classroom teachers.

The boys’ glee clubs have also had a good
effect upon our instrumental program. Unfortu-
nately we do not have instrumental instruction in

our schools so we have featured the instruments
we wish to develop. Last year we had an orchestra
of 50 string players on one program, on another a
flute and horn duet. This emphasis has helped to
create a demand for these instruments.

The popularity of the boys’ glee clubs has stimu-
lated the girls’ interest in choral music. We have
had to form two more girls’ choruses in the high
school this year to meet the demand. The boys
who started four years ago are just now beginning
to enter high school, and this year we have a big
group of serious singers.

Definitely, these boys’ glee clubs have aroused
an interest that carries our lads over the change of
voice period and keeps them singing. From a
broader viewpoint, the clubs have helped to de—
velop team work and pride in accomplishment and
to form beneficial friendships. An important de-
velopment in public relations has come about
through the better understanding which the clubs
have created and fostered between the school and
the home as well as between the school and the
citizens in general. Perhaps the greatest value is to
the individual pupil by starting him in a leisure
time activity that will give him profitable interest
and pleasure during his lifetime.

 

Attention, Children's Theatres!

DIRECTORS OF CHILDREN’S THEATRES are being invited to show off their productions in June 1947.

There will be an exhibit on children’s theatre at the American Educational Theatre Association con-
ference to be held at the University ‘of Indiana, Bloomington, June 16-20. There will be five sections of

exhibit material, i.e., photographs of productions, costume designs (not more than five from a theatre),
scene designs (not more than five from a theatre), special material such as programs, posters, or other
promotion material (not more than one panel from a theatre).

Material must be mounted on illustration board 40” x 24”, and should be sent express prepaid,
marked “For AETA Children’s Theatre Exhibit” to Miss Julie Shaw, Alumni Hall, Indiana Union,

University of Indiana, Bloomington, Indiana.

Other features of the five day Children’s Theatre conference will be talks and discussions devoted
to organizing new programs, organization problems of established groups, finances, and publicity, script

values, analyzing audience reaction, production demonstrations.

Of special interest to recreation leaders will be participation in the conference by members of
community recreation departments. Both Hazel Glaister Robertson, director, and Roy Morgan, technical
director of the Palo Alto Recreation Department’s children’s theatre will take part in the program, and
there will be reports from Richmond, Virginia, on the Aladdin Players and from Portland, Maine, on
the Trailer Theatre—both activities carried on by or in cooperation with community recreation, de-

partments.

82 - RECREATION

 

      

Aide-de-Camp

O A complete diary and workbook for camp
owners and directors. Twenty different
types of entries are provided for in this

volume. All are necessary for efficient camp

operation.

SI .00 per copy

“Camptoons”

e Campers send postcards to all their family

  

and friends. Here is something novel——
make their card writing more interesting

and amusing.

e “Camptoons” does away with the drudgery

of writing.

a “Camptoons” are sold only in complete sets
of eight designs. Each illustrating an ac-
tivity at camp. Separate series for boys and

girls.

a “Camptoons” are sold in complete sets of
eight different designs. They are attractively

printed on post card stock.

m

PRICES

500 POST CARDS $6.50
IOOO POST CARDS $9.25

N

CAMP PUBLISHING COMPANY
l0 West 23rd Street

  

Bayonne. N. J.

MAY 1947

  
      
     
   
      
   
     
  

   
      
 

  
 
   
   
      
    
   
  
 
   

 

/

f

I
THE spam" or: \

ONE WORLD K \

L/

N one shape or another, made of one material or
another, you will flnd archery tackle In use by every nation on
the face of the earth. Archery is not only the oldest known
sport. It is also the most nearly universal of sports.

The true toxOphllite (a fancy word for archery bugl can-
siders the rifle and the atom bomb new—fangled devices which
probably aren't here to stay. He will remind you that: (H
archery has put more meat on the table than all other weapons
combined; (2} archery is found in every country and among
every race and tribe; (which is mar than can be said for the
six-shooter ar the atom bomb}; l l more arrows have been
shot, even an the North American continent, than shells. (Try

walking through the woods sometime looking for shells instead
of arrowheadsJ

Archery has a place—4| strong place—in your program today.
Archery has the fundamental appeal. Archery is for all ages,
both sexes, for the healthy and lnfirm, the robust and the
recluse. Archery is a proved builder of co—ardination, muscle,
vision, perfect pasture, and steady nerves. And, best of all,
archery is true recreation.

You will find a Ben Pearson dealer near you, and you will
be astonished at the beauty and lneXpensiveness at the archery
tackle he displays. Look him up soon. And meanwhile, for help
in forming an archery club, archery class, or installing an
archery range, write Ben Pearson. We maintain an advisory
service especially for that purpose.

   
 

PINE BLUFF, ARKANSAS

Conservation Clubs

By ED ADAMS and EARL WALLACE
Division of Game and Fish
Frankfort. Kentucky

N MARCH I 3, 1945 the first Junior Conser-
O vation Club was organized at Frankfort,

Kentucky, under the supervision of the Di-
vision of Game and Fish and sponsored by the
Franklin County Sportsmen’s Club. From that
date until the present time, I33 such clubs have
been organized throughout the state. These clubs
are under the direct supervision of counselors ap—
pointed by senior game and fish clubs who take
the responsibility for sponsoring the junior clubs
in their respective counties. To help these senior
clubs with the boys, there are 87 conservation of—
ficers, nine district supervisors and two assistants.

These professional helpers are all members of
the Kentucky Division of Game and Fish which
also provides the clubs with membership cards,
membership buttons, the division magazine, H appy
Hunting Ground, and the League of Kentucky
Sportsmen’s magazine. All clubs work along to-
gether each month on the same project set by their
adult advisers.

The primary reason for this new type of ap—
proach to conservation was the realization that
wildlife in our state was rapidly diminishing.
Kentucky could no longer be called the “Happy
Hunting Ground.” After a careful study, it was
decided to place the future of Kentucky’s wildlife
in the hands of our young people. The older gen—
eration had proved that it could not be changed
very much in regard to conservation. So, in a
great belief in the youth of our state who have
inherited the love of out-of—doors from their
pioneer forefathers, we started our program. We
moved slowly at first, feeling our way, knowing
that if this program were to be a success it must
be definite and concise.

Monthly Projects

The first year the junior clubs were in opera-
tion, a 12-point program was set up to cover the
entire year’s work. It started on July I, 1945.
Each project lasted a month. During the month
of July, the boys wrote essays on a fishing trip

84

they had taken during the summer or on any phase
of fishing they desired. At that time, as there
were only nine clubs in operation, the winner in
each club was awarded a prize by the Division of
Game and Fish. In August, each club had a camp—
ing party, under the supervision of their coun-
selors. Each b0y compiled a report of his trip and
what he had learned on it.

September found the boys receiving instructions
in forest fire prevention, tree identification, and
the making of scrapbooks. They were taken into
the fields for these lessons.

During the month of October the boys learned
the proper equipment and clothing to be taken on
a hunting or camping trip. They were told what
to take with them for all emergencies and what not
to take with them—because it would be in their
way. This project was worked out by an ex-ser-
viceman who had had experience for several years,
and it was carried out at meetings by experienced
hunters and campers.

The handling of firearms was discussed in No-
vember and the boys were allowed to handle rifles
and shotguns under the strict supervision of coun-
selors. They were told what to do and what not
to do to prevent accidents in the field.

The instructions received during the two previ-
ous months were put to use in the December
meeting when the boys were taken into the field
on a hunting and camping trip. The counselors
and senior club members accompanied them, saw
that they received the proper instructions, checked
their precautions in the handling of firearms.

In January, the boys studied trapping and fur-
bearing animals. They were taught the proper
traps to use, the traps that are legal under the
Game and Fish Laws, and how to tan and treat
the hides for commercial use.

During the month of February when it was hard
for the birds and animals to find food, the boys
planted boxes of food for birds and scattered
scraps over the ground to help the wild things
survive. They were instructed in the food dif—
ferent types of wildlife live on and the various
methods of protection they could provide for the
animals.

A conservation officer was sent to each club for
the March meeting to discuss the Game and Fish
Laws and answer all questions the boys might
wish to ask. At the end of this meeting, the boys
were given a test on the laws to see just what they

had learned.
When the fishing season arrived in April, the

boys were given a demonstration on casting by a
senior sportsman. Various types of bait, plugs,

RECREATION

 

n . GRAND SIAM ' ';
‘ L"; i" 70‘?“ 

 i “ .  ., -: ,-  .~a%~ gamma? 

MLLEmcH & BnAnssv m, "40., LOUISVILLE, unnuch

 

Combined
Operations

Recreation department
and schools of PeoriaI
Illinois. pool resources

UNION OF AGENCIES concerned with the pro-
A motion of public recreation is not new to
many cities. Coordinated plans between
schools, park boards and the agency reSponsible
for the recreation program in the community are
now in effect in many cities throughout the coun-
try. What makes the Peoria plan worthy of men-
tion here is the way in which it came into being.
Generally, the schools see the problem of com-
munity recreation but fail to face the question very
seriously. A superintendent of recreation going
into a city to set up a year-round program of rec-
reation activities follows a familiar pattern. Cau-
tiously, he establishes his department as an agency

 

By ROBERT L. HORNEY

Superintendent of Recreation
Peoria, Illinois

worthy of merit and recognition on its own. After
some irresolution, the pinch of want of more ade-
quate facilities has sent many a superintendent to
plead his case before indifferent school boards and
school administrations. Too often any real attempt
toward a coordinated plan meets with slow or
meager success. Yet the public schools are the
natural center of leisure-time activities because of
their extensive facilities and their personnel re-
sources. When the schools realize their obligation
to help provide recreation services, coordinated
program may deve10p.

Peoria inaugurated a year-round community
recreation program on April I, 1946, under the
administration of the Peoria Playground and Rec-
reation Commission. In the beginning, the city
council earmarked the recreation budget for lead—
ership, supplies and equipment. The commission
was firm in its belief that no money should go into
permanent buildings or the acquisition of new
areas. This created a need to use all available

Courtesy Public Schools of Denver, Colorado

RECREATION

 

  
 
     
   
   
   
        
      
       
    

ATTENTION - PERSOEL MANAGERS

AMERICAN LENDING LIBRARY, INC.

CAN BUILD GOOD WILL IN YOUR PLANT
This Is What a Lending Library Has Done for These Progressive Companies

  

. "The Lending Library . . . does its part in creating good will between the
ATLANTA PAPER CO. (reports; managemenlt an? einplotgeesi. d1 Lib hi h h 1 l
. " ur emp oyees are great y en oy ng e en ng rary w c you ave recent y n-
E'Z  reporils‘ stalled in our plant.”

  reports: “We feel that the library is proving benencial to our employees."

MANY MORE TESTIMONIALS received by WE MAINTAIN LIBRARIES IN
the American Lending Library indicate that Banks and Hotels

our book installations are efficient builders 300k Shops

of employee good will. Here is a. worthwhile Department Stores
educational project that will cost your plant Indu§tfial 1’ 1811“

little or nothing.. depending upon the system Pubhc Institutions

you select. Let us tell you more about it. 11- 8- Government Denta-

Branch Offices Throughout the Nation
.College POII'I",

Please write to us.

     
 

 

  

American Lending
Library, Inc.

\

No use to paint a pool
if the coating won ’t stay on

To preclude any possibility of peeling, a swimming pool enamel must be resistant to water.
Being thoroughly waterproof, RAMUC is not affected by continuous submersion; and never

blisters or Bakes 03. This quality explains why a RAMUC job doesn’t need repainting until
it has worn thin—two or three seas'ons later.

Water and sun cause most pool paints to fade; a half-bleached-Iooking pool is surely no
inducement to swim. Yet the swimming pool painted with RAMUC Enamel is a credit to
the community. Pool Managers know that RAMUC is not only colorful, but is color-fast.
Mr. C. K. MacDonald, owner of the beautiful Idlewild Pool at Ligonier, Pennsylvania, is a
great booster of RAMUC; it doesn’t fade and it doesn’t peel.

Ask for the "Swimming Pool Handbook.”
No obligation. of course.

INERTOL CO., INC.

470 FRELINGHUYSENHAVE. ” l9 SOUTH PARK
NEWARK 5. N. J. SAN FRANCISCO 7. CALIF.

MAY 1947 89 .

facilities by coordinating the work of the Peoria
Playground and Recreation Commission with other
community agencies concerned with the leisure
time of the people.

There should be only a few who any longer
question the value of a. synthesis of education and
recreation—at least a theoretical synthesis. The
problem now is largely a practical one, namely,
“How can we bring about a union of the two P”
L. P. Jacks in his book, Education Through Rec-
reation, has said, “To understand the meaning of
education and recreation, we must see the two in
union and not in separation.” Fortunately for the
city of Peoria, their superintendent of schools, Dr.
Melvin G. Davis, is in accord with the ideals of
Dr. Jacks.

Early in April, at Dr. Davis’ invitation, we met
to discuss our mutual obligation to the community
in developing a program. Dr. Davis gave assur~
ance that he was ready and waiting for the recrea-
tion department to step in where the school cur-
riculum left off. He was enthusiastic and eager to
start an after school program which would lengthen
the school day by offering a wholesome recreation

 

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Oiiicial
Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

90

1t

program of intramural sports for boys and girls.
He felt that by pooling our money, leadership and
facilities, this goal could be reached.

Beginnings

Out of the first meeting grew the plan now in
operation. The program is run jointly by the
public schools and the recreation commission, with
the schools providing the facilities and equipment
and the recreation commission the leadership and
program plan. Following several conferences, a
joint committee was appointed by Dr. Davis con—
sisting of two intramural directors, the director of
public school physical education, three grade school
principals and the superintendent of recreation for
the Peoria Playground and Recreation Commis-
sion. The committee first met with all the ele-
mentary school principals to discuss what could
be done and where to start. This was a thought-
provoking meeting between two elements. One,
the minority, favored a competitive athletic pro-
gram against the majority who preferred intra—
mural recreation sports and games.

In addition, the joint committee met with Dr.
Davis, the assistant superintendent of schools, the
superintendent of buildings and grounds, and a
union representative for the school custodians to
determine the administration, control and opera—
tion of facilities.

From these meetings, the after school recreation
program conducted jointly by the schools and the
Peoria Playground and Recreation Commission
came into being at 23 elementary schools and one
junior high school. The purpose of the program
set up.by the committee is to provide a super-

vised program of intramural sports and recreation 

activities to meet the interest of boy-s and girls of
elementary school level from the fourth through
the eighth grades. The objective is to encourage
participation of boys. and girls in as many different
activities as facilities will allow for a minimum of
four afternoons per week from 3:30 to 5 and on
Saturday mornings from 9 to I I :30. The fall pro-
gram, set up to operate from September 16 through
November 22, included the following activities:
touch football, volley ball, soccer, speed ball, new—
comb, dodge ball, long ball, end ball, kick baseball,
archery; badminton, deck tennis, field hockey and
field day tournaments. From these each leader
selects a minimum of three activities for boys and
three activities for girls.

Group instruction is provided for boys and girls
in developing fundamental skills and acquiring the .
knowledge of rules for the preservation of interest
and participation. Play directors are urged to pro-

RECREATION

  
   
    
   

it every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mus
nicipal and Industrial Recreation,
MacGregor-Goidsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
mark of quality and unvarying
performance.

lllll nl physiooi “In”
omerunati 1'4..OH3‘°. u. s. A. .

 

 W¢Ww WW 1726'- 

PIcroRIAL PUBLIoIrY I
or You RECREATIONAL FAoILIrIEs

EFFECTIVE O ECONOMICAL O PROFITABLE

PICTURE POST CARDS
SUUVENIR FOLDERS

Reproduced From Your Own Photos
Write For Free Folder “R”

ARTVUE POST CARD COMPANY
225 Filth Avenue New York 10. N. Y.

 

I'M v: you sear ran 7/115 [REE 800M”?

 

JUST OFF THE PRESS—this impor—
tant booklet, chuck full of valuable
facts on getting your High School
Boxing Program underway is yours
FREE for the asking. Written by
John Walsh, it clears up numerous
misconceptions about boxing—espe—
cially valuable to newcomers in the

progra m.

NATIONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT CO.

365 No. Marquette
FOND DU LAC, WIS.

Makers of NATIONAL Gym Mots,
Boxing Rings, and kindred
equipment

MAY 1947

.1215; 23am

and “get in the swing” with

[:1 Old Square Dances of America

By TRESSIE M. DUNLAVY and NEVA L. Born

With reels, polkas, squares, circles and contras,
Young America enjoys its leisure . . . and this is the
book they like, complete with descriptions and in-
structions for calls. Price, $0.75

Handbook of Games [:1
By NEVA L. BOYD

Over 300 varied games easy to
understand and follow . . . gives
the “know-how” for sparkling
entertainment. Clothbound.
Suitable also as a Gift.

Price. $2.00

Check this list for

Playground . . . Home
School . . . Heepital

Price

E] Schoolroom Games $0.35

Elementary grades learn to play without dis-
turbing others.

E] Mother Goose Dances 2.00

Interpretive singing dances for very young
children.

[:1 Old English 8: American Games I.25

Over 40 simple singing games for children.

[:1 Folk Games 8: Gymnastic Play I.25

For kindergarten, primary and playground.

[I Folk Games of Denmark 8: Sweden I.25

Aptly expresses folk spirit and humor.

1] Folk Games of Bohemia 8: Moravia I.25

Informal gems of popular native art.

[:I Home Games .50

. Fun for 2 or more persons, any and all ages

El Hospital and Bedside Games I.00

New revised edition. . . . Effective type of
occupational therapy for all ages . . . provides
enjoyable stimulation and relaxation. Hand-
somely bound in blue cloth.

FREE DESCRIPTIVE CIRCULAR

If remittance accompanies order, we ship prepaid
New accounts please furnish customary references

H. T. FitzSimons Co., Inc.

23 EAST JACKSON BLVD., Dept. R CHICAGO 4, ILL.

 

91

First Name in Trampolining
presents

MODEL 5000-T
The Original-Advanced

TRAMPOLINE“

*Name TRAMPOLINE Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

Improved—Refined by Ten Years
DESIGN. TESTS and USE in Gyms and

Armed Forces—at Y's. Pools.
Camps and Beaches

FOLDS READILY . EASILY MOVED
Now AVAILABLE at 5209-00

Complete—£0.82 Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Write for Free Literature

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE
200A AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA

 

for

Available

Distributors

1..

.-_...__m.-a-__._J '.

n

f” rnwrsr nv nu- Iu'zp .I
HANUIAC'UIINO COMPANY O

 

 

  
  
   

ivory Snort!

Thru Leading
Athletic Goods

Wm

51'. lOIHS 3 MO.

  

mote mass games, to include all age levels and
provide equal oportunities. The program is not
designed to make a few star athletes; rather, it
aims to develop skills for as many participants as
possible.

To climax the fall season, to “add frosting to the
cake,” the 24 schools are divided into five districts,
making it possible for round-robin tournaments at
athletic fields easily accessible to each district. This
avoids a strenuous schedule of interschool games in
—too often—spurious play which becomes a busi-
ness, forgetting that recreation is play for the
pleasure of play. Games are played on Saturday
mornings and, by dividing the city into districts,
the problems of transportation and supervision are
few. The Peoria Park Board has cooperated in
providing the athletic fields where elementary
school areas are inadequate.

Looking Ahead

After the experience of actual operation, the
joint committee feels that it will be better prepared
to formulate the program for the two succeeding
seasons, the winter season from December I through
March 3: and the spring season from April I
through June IO.

What are the shortcomings of the plan? Many,
as far as program content is concerned; The Peoria
Playground and Recreation Commission would be
the first to admit the inadequacy of any program
made up wholly of physical activity. But there
seem to be two ways to measure the success of
such a program. One is through the actual activ-
ity participation, which is one barometer of success.
The second is the start of a working relationship
between two agencies vitally concerned and re-
sponsible for the leisure time of their people.

It is simple enough to work out a paper pro-
gram of diversified activities, but in actual prac-
tice, the physical activities seem to be the natural
beginning. Most children are quick to respond to
physical play. We are not unmindful that varied
recreation activities must be added to reach all
children. These will come when the budget is in—
creased and trained leaders can be found. Finding
local leaders with a genuine recreation philosophy
and enough skill in their respective fields to respond
to recreation training is one of the big factors to be
met before the program can be widened to include
dramatics, craft, music, hobby clubs, and other
activities at all of the school centers.

The adult evening community center program,
now in operation in eight school buildings under

RECREATION

 

the direct supervision of the Peoria Playground
and Recreation Commission, provides a better
rounded recreation program. The community cen-
ter schedule of activities includes crafts, active
game rooms and quiet game rooms, square dancing
and ballroom dancing instruction, women’s activ-
ity classes, men’s activity classes, teen-age clubs and
family night programs with community singing,
sound movies and dancing.

The new city-wide activities include the Peoria
Civic Orchestra, an organization designed to give
musical expression to those out of high school and
college who have no opportunity to play with a
group; the children’s little theater, open to boys
and girls from 8 to 14 years of age which meets
every Monday and Wednesday evenings; the boys’
choir whose goal is IOO voices and whose first
public program will be an Easter concert; a recre-
ation therapy program for local h03pitals; indus-
trial basketball leagues which, with a total of 50
teams registered, will play their games in the vari-
ous high school gymnasiums; and social recreation
party service plus a Party of the Month Club
Bulletin provided as part of our community-wide

, program.

Surely there is nothing different in this program °

of activities. What makes one take the trouble of
getting all this down is the amazing fact that here
was one community where the publicischool system
was ready and waiting. It is a real challenge to
future planning.

 

 

Recreation Congress Dates Announced

The Twenty-Ninth National Recreation Con-
gress will be held October 13—17, 1947- in New
York City, with headquarters at the Hotel New
Yorker, Eighth Avenue and 34th Street. For further
information, write to the Recreation Congress
Committee, National Recreation Association. '

 

AMERICAN COUNTRY
DANCE SCHOOL

Held at Valhalla Farm, Boyne City, Michigan;
August 3 to 10. For men and women: Learn
to dance and “call” the old dances.

Write the director

MISS GRACE RYAN

author Dances of Our Pioneers

CENTRAL MICHIGAN COLLEGE
Mt. Pleasant, Michigan

 

MAY 1947

To help your students move

0 smoothly o gracefully
o with poise and assurance

YOUR CARRIAGE, MllDliM!

By Janet Lane
New Second Edition

YOUR CARRIAGE, MADAM! tells how the everyday
motions of sitting, walking or stooping can be made so
that the muscles, getting the proper exercise, are kept
flat and the figure lithe and graceful.

The first editiOn was for many years widely used in
secondary schools and colleges
throughout the country, as well as
in charm schools, model schools,
and dramatic schools. Teachers will
welcome the ,new second edition
because, in addition to retaining the
clarity and simplicity of the original
edition, it has been considerably
modernized and new material has

been added.
Second Edition. May 1947. $2.50

Copies obtainable an approval

JOHN WILEY 8: SONS, INC.

440 Fourth Avenue. New York lb. N. Y.

 

CONSTRUCTIVE FUN

Keep ’ em

 
 
 
   

S iv'iDilF'lG'B

busy with

these popular
“Self-Help”

Simplified Drawing .......................... ..$1.50
Working in Leather .......................... .. 1.00
Fundamentals of Wood Working .... .. 1.00
Fundamentals of Clay Modeling ...... .. 1.00
Essentials of Creative Design .......... .. 1.00
Simplified Art Anatomy .................. .. 1.00
Figure Drawing Without a Model .... .. 1.00
The Secrets of Cartooning .............. .. 1.00
The Art of Doing Portraits .............. .. 1.00
Oil Painting ................................... .. 1.00
Water Color Painting ...................... .. 1.00
Pastel Painting ................................ .. 1.00
Landscape Painting ........................ .. 1.00
Drawing for Children ...................... .. 1.00
Arts Cr Crafts-for Children .............. .. 1.00

Practical Home Decorating .............. .. 1.00

New Titles Constantly Being Added
Send for Complete List of
Adults’ and Children’s Art Books

HOUSE 01’ LITTLE BOOKS
80 East l Ith St., New York 3. N.Y.

93

 

Let’s Go to Sea

 

By STEPHEN J. SMITH

N SNOHOMISH, WASHINGTON, the public schools
I have for many years promoted purposeful sum-

mer receation programs. Few have been more
enjoyable—or more strenuous—than the sea-going
expeditions. Results have varied with each group
participating. Weather has often interfered with
carefully planned schedules. Enough unpredicta-
bles have entered the picture to spice the entire
summer.

The sea-going jaunts began five years ago. The
Snohomish Sea Scouts made available their 40—
foot ship. It’s a good ship with adequate facilities
aboard to feed and sleep 12 people. It has a cruis-
ing range of 400 miles, and frequent dry dock
inspections guard against hazards.

Under the leadership of an instructor-skipper
and his crew of three, eight students at a time
spend a week or so aboard in a world far removed
from accustomed activities of the winter. Sea
Scouts and skipper lay out the courses and handle
the ship assisted by science students who are seek-
ing specimens and knowledge in island laboratories
off the Washington coast.

Costs

Financial budgeting “is carefully worked out.
Students pay for both food and the cost of Opera-
tion. Sea Scouts—because they take the brunt of
actual operation with dawn to dark helm and navi—
gation duty and put in hundreds of hours of dirty
and uninteresting work scraping, caulking, paint-
ing, repairing engines and the like-pay in money
only for food. Much of these food costs are re-
duced by the ship’s canning program. As much as
275 quarts of fruit, vegetables and meats may be
drawn upon for a summer’s cruises.

Students sign in May for a cruise scheduled at

94

 

.1 -. _
Photo by the author

a particular time and for a specified length. At that
time menus for the cruise are worked out, mileage
and expenses are estimated as accurately as pos-
sible. The cost to each student is figured but no
money is paid until supplies are actually loaded.
Thus, if a group can live off the country—if its
members are willing to pick berries, dig clams,
shuck oysters and put in odd hours fishing—costs
are reduced substantially. The usual cost is $2 a
day or $25 for two weeks. A student cruise purser
does the buying. The biggest single cost item, ship
repairs, is met by the Community Chest and ship’s
funds.

The Cruises

Students and Sea Scouts organize for the cruise
within an hour of port departure. The menu for
the cruise is posted, and each student knows which
meal he will prepare and what the preparation will
entail. In live years of cruising a few meals have
been late but none has been indigestible.

Each member of the group, has an interest
beyond the mere pleasure of cruising. They learn
marine zoology, study birds where birds live, navi—
gate in calm and storm, study botany on various
islands and at various altitudes. They swim and
hike, play games, sing around a camp fire, visit
strange ports, meet interesting people.

Each trip to the island laboratories features a:
competition in collecting and identifying marine:
animals and plant life. On one cruise two girls.
identified 87 marine animals. On another two
students collected and identified 65 plants.

Many events are unplanned, indeed unpredicta- 
ble. One day last summer, for example, we hadl
killed, by noon, IO hair seals* in an effort to obtain I

 

*Not to be confused with the'fur bearing seals protected by United
States law.

RECREATION I-

 

«"- 

a mature skull to add to the high school laboratory
material as verification of the close relationship of
the seal and the bear family. Eight of the animals
sank, but the other two were dragged up on a
rocky reef. It was amusing to note how readily the
girls forgot their squeamishness and became
absorbed in the anatomical review as the dissec-
tion went forward.

On another occasion we had the unexpected
privilege of spending an hour in the middle of a
school of 60 whales cutting their capers in the
Straits of Juan de Fuca. We spotted a few of the
school, ran up tide, shut off the power, and drifted
silently down upon them. Soon whales were all
around us—cows and their calves and some wary
old bulls. A guard whale stood on his tail a hun-
dred feet away and looked us over. It was a tense
moment. Four 40-footers leisurely surfaced off our
starboard beam to give breath explosively. They
submerged, heading toward us, passed directly
under our keel, and reappeared on the port beam.

An approaching diesel tug alarmed the whale
school and it submerged. Once more the sea was
ruled by the tide, the wind, the gulls. We started
our engine and headed toward Victoria where we
spent the remainder of the day in the provincial
museum of natural history.

Study hours vary with the tides, the islands
visited, the~ purposes of the visit. Sometimes we
are up at 4 AM. to benefit from a particular tidal
situation. Bird study often requires late afternoon
or evening observations when certain birds return
to their rookeries. Some days the skipper and crew
are up at dawn to run the cruiser to the next port
or island objective while the students sleep in.

MAY 1947

 

Photo by the author

 

 

    

Saul/i»
The PHUEEEDINBS .

ot the
ANNUAL CONVENTION
St. Louis. Mo.. April. I946

American Association for Health.
Physical Education and
Recreation

   

  
   
   
   
   
  
 

Condensations of division meetings, work-
shops, and general assembly addresses on
health, physical education and recreation.

Price $|.00
Order from the Association Office

I20l SIXTEENTH STREET. NW
WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

 

UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING

Summer Session Offerings

Second Annual Workshop in Recreational Leadership,
June 23-July 25, 2-8 credit hrs. Complete offering of
undergraduate and graduate courses in Health, Physi-
cal Education, Recreation. Coaching School, August
4-9. inc. Organized trips to Yellowstone, The Black
Hills, Grand Canyon, Pike’s Peak, Central City. Fish-
ing and outdoor life in the "Old West” and the
"Rockies." Fees reasonable. Housing available.

Quarter June 6-Aug. 15. “Session,” June 23-July 25.

Inquire of
Director Summer Session

“UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING
Laramie. Wyoming

J11}; J4/moit :7imo. ..

FOR PLAYGROUNDS TO OPEN!

You can't afford to be without the I947
edition of the Playground Summer Notebook.

The essential facts of playground programming
and administration are presented informally.

$1.00 for sixteen issues

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
3I5 Fourth Avenue New YorIt IO. N. Y.

95

Like It?

Do the youngsters like this kind of vacation?
Of that there can be no question. Years later
students come back to speak with glowing enthusi-
asm of a particular trip—its fun, its experiences
which have helped them to live more fully, to un-
derstand more completely the world in which they
live.

The 1947 season will see an enlargement of the
program. For a new cruiser will be ready for use
this summer. It is a wide beam 5o-footer with
double the capacity of the old ship. This season’s
program will be more efficient and much more
comfortable.

A New Major Study

at

SPRINGFIELD COLLEGE

Recreation and Camping
CHARLES F. WECKWERTH, Director

A NEW CURRICULUM,
thoroughly planned and organized to give the
best professional preparation to young men
interested in useful, satisfying careers. The
Recreation and Camping major at Springfield
College is available to train:

Discerning Leaders
Men of Action
Counselors in Buoyant Living

Send for folder to

Director of Admissions

SPRINGFIELD COLLEGE

SPRINGFIELD 9, MASS.

FOR ALL MAJOR SPORTS

This finely finished Tr0phy is available
in four popular sizes. Beautiful new
design with polished Sun-Ray finish.
No. Ht. Each
13" $14.50
16" 21.50
25A 19” 25.50
26A 22” 35.00

Engraving 7c per letter.

Your inquiry invited.
Quality individual and team prizes f? ..
and awards for every major sport  " . .
are available. Trophies with fully! 
modeled athletic figures may be par-t . 
chased for as little as $2.50. “* 

D Write Dept. R for Free Illustrated Catalog

EDWIN W. LANE Co.

32 W. RANDOLPH STREET CHICAGO I, ILL.

  

96

 

World .

at

Play

THE Metropolitan Mu—
seum of Art reports that
last year a total of
1,826,353 persons visited the Museum, an increase
of nearly 50 percent over the largest prewar figure.

An announcement by the Museum emphasizes
the rising population demands on all cultural and
educational facilities because of the constant in-

crease of leisure time.

The People Demand

WORD has just been re-
ceived from Theresa
Schmidt Brungardt that
a joint resolution was passed by the Senate and
the House in Vermont to take care of the state
recreation program until July Ist or until other
legislation is passed. The name is now the Ver-
mont Community Recreation Advisory Service,
and the Vermont Director of Recreation is respon-
sible to the Governor.

A bill with reference to the planning for recrea-
tion in Vermont is now pending before the legis-

lature.

Vermont

ON February 17, 1947,
the National Congress of
Parents and Teachers
celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of its founding.
Its membership is now four million. It has had a
long history of efficient work in serving the chil-
dren and the communities of the United States.
For the last 41: years the National Recreation
Association has had much satisfaction in working
closely year after year with this great national
body. The Association hopes that the next 50 years
for the Congress may be even more distinguished

than the last.

Golden Anniversary

SIMPLE arithmetic and a
few facts were all that
were necessary to deter-
mine the cost of a comprehensive leisure-time pro-
gram for citizens of Berkeley, California. The rec-
reation department served a total of 1,236,595

Facts and Figures

 

RECREATION

+——-_-——---..-—_1'- l.-—._—'. —I-*

people during the fiscal year 1945-46. The total
city and school recreation budget was $103,470.22.
Thus the actual per service cost was only eight
cents. But using the accepted p0pulation figures of
105,000, the per capita cost to Berkeley residents
for a recreation program was only 99 cents per
year. The cost of the park service was $99,968.44,
which made the .combined cost $203,438.66 or

$1.94 per capita.

BIRD hikes are the new-
est activity added to the
recreation program in Al—
lentown, Pennsylvania. A noted ornithologist con-
ducted live hikes—four in the spring and one in
the fall—for a group of people interested in birds.
More than 100 Allentowners met early Sunday
mornings to sight and identify their feathered
friends.

Bird’s-Eye View

NATIoNAL flags on dis-
play and colorful cere-
monies marked Pan

American Day. Governments of the 21 republics
of the Western Hemisphere elected April 14 to
commemorate their sovereignty and their volun-
tary union in one continental community of na-
tions. The slogan for the 1947 observance of Pan
American Day was “Cooperation-—Keyn0te of the
Americas.”

A United Front

JEEPS are very good in-
vestments. Ask the Park

Department of Wilmette,
Illinois, which owns one. The department has
found theirs to be very effective in grading grounds,
keeping ice rinks clean, barging through deep
snow and for maintenance work in general.

Try a Jeep

 

 

Recreation for Youth”

Purpose and ScoPe

HE PURPOSE of this report is to set forth the
Tcontribution that recreation should make to the

control and prevention of juvenile delinquency.
The report makes no pretense that recreation is a
cure-all for delinquency. It recognizes that recrea-
tion may make an important contribution to the
social treatment of delinquent juveniles and is one
of the effective instruments for the prevention of
delinquency. Recreation serves best as a preventive
force when opportunities for wholesome recreation
are provided for all youth everywhere. Principles
of action toward this end that have gained wide
acceptance are set forth in this report . . .

i"

General Principles

1. Recreation is a vital and signilicant segment
of living and is essential in a democratic society.
It is a positive force in the lives of everyone, par-
ticularly young pe0ple. '

2. Recreation is a primary responsibility of every
community and must be adequately provided to
meet the needs of all youth", regardless of race,
creed, or economic status.

3. Recreation must receive major attention in
planning for the conservation and development of
youth and in the prevention and control of juvenile
delinquency. Recreation cuts across many fields of
organization, and involves the. cultural, social,

 

'chrinted from Summaries of Recommendation: for Action by the
Panel on Recreatzon of the National Conference on Prevention
and Control of Juvenile Delinquency.

MAY 1947

physical, and moral welfare of so many pe0ple, that
basic provision for its promotion is inescapany
governmental. Governmental machinery for recre-
ation at every level—local, State, and Federal—
must be provided if recreation needs are to be met.

4. Community recreation demands the mobiliza-
tion and use of all resources, human, physical, and
fiscal; public, private and commercial. Although
the floor of basic recreation services and facilities
must be provided by government, the assistance of
non-governmental groups such as youth-serving
agencies, commercial and industrial enterprise, the
institutions, and churches is essential. Moreover,
the home, in housing developments and out, as well
as the schools and libraries, parks and camps have
an important role to play in recreation for young
people. All of these aids for youth-recreation needs
must serve and encompass the youth population
whether in urban centers or rural areas.

5. To produce maximum results, youth recrea-
tion services must be carefully planned and co-

ordinated.

6. Essential to community recreation programs
for youth are (a) broad, basic legislation; (b)
adequate funds to establish and operate programs
and services; (c) a wide range of indoor and out-
door recreation facilities and areas; and ((1) com-
petent, trained, and well-paid professional leader-
ship as well as capable trained volunteers.

7. Youth must have a large part not only in the
planning of recreation programs but also in the

97

role of leadership. Young people are entitled to
both share and lead in a democratic society.

8. Recreation has a contribution to make under
those conditions that require “social treatment” of
individuals and groups.

Specific Principles '

Recreation—A Maior Necessity and Safeguard

1. Recreation is an important part of a living
process; one of a family of social services. It is
recommended that it be presented to youth posi-
tively, with emphasis on his choice in free time
and on his dignity as an individual, rather than
as a cure-all for his delinquencies.

2. Recreation is a community responsibility. The
community must support, through taxation and
voluntary contributions, adequate facilities and
leadership to be operated by public and private
agencies.

3. Public attitude favorable to an adequate year-

round recreation program should be created and
sustained.

Recreation—A Community Responsibility

I. The community has a responsibility for plan-
Ining, financing, and administering recreation ser-
vices that provide facilities, opportunities, leader-
ship and materials. These services must touch all

neighborhoods and reach all children, youth, and
adults. '

Youth Needs

I. Youth needs more than a program of activi-
ties; it wants also responsibilities in the commu-
nity, the Nation, and the world. Young people

given the right opportunities for leadership are a
force for a democratic society.

2. The war accentuated emotional, racial, and
religious tensions among youth. Recreation pro-
grams should be planned to offset these tensions.
Youth needs family life, affection, fellowship, se-

curity, skills, and knowledge of how to work with
others.

3. Older youth need employment opportunities.

4. Youth needs qualified and understanding
adult guidance that permits youth to lead and
plan, as well as to be led. National, State, and

local planning is necessary for the training of such
adult and youth leaders.

5. Coordination between public and private
agencies is needed to close the gaps in services.
Studies should be made in problem areas and plans
evolved by National, State, and local organiza-

98

tions, as to how funds, facilities, leadership, public
interpretation, and training can be correlated.

6. Youth needs to be secure, healthy, self-reliant,
responsible, self-disciplined.

Recreation for Youth—in Public
Recreation Agencies

1. Recreation is a public responsibility. T here-
fore an appropriation must be made from tax
funds for. its facilities, leadership, and programs.

2. A public recreation system demands adequate
service to all neighborhoods, all races, all ages.
Surveys should be made periodically to test the
extent to which this coverage is occurring.

3. Youth programs must be included in the plan—
ning for all ages. To this end youth should have
representatives on planning councils to articulate
its needs.

4. Voluntary youth agencies and the public. de—
partments should coordinate their facilities, lead-
ership, equipment, and volunteer training‘to make
adequate recreation services available to all youth
in all areas.

5. By continuous interpretation, the community
should work for the provision of wholesome com-
mercial recreation.

Recreation—in Schools

1. School facilities should be operated, beyond
school hours, as community centers. Education for
leisure should also be given through the school
curriculum and otherwise in the choice of leisure-
time activities.

2. Schools should cooperate with and comple-
ment the home in planning for the leisure—time
choices and activity skills.

3. Schools should join with other agencies, park
boards, recreation commissions, social agencies,
youth-serving organizations, recreation organiza-
tions, in a coordinated approach to recreation. An
advisory community-school recreation committee
is essential.

4. State legislation is often needed to empower
school districts to spend funds to operate recrea—
tion programs.

5. The functional design of school facilities
should provide for school and community use.

6. When schools operate recreation programs,
leaders trained in recreation should be employed.
These duties should not be assigned to teachers as
an extra duty, or to teachers who may not have the
necessary qualifications.

7. Training and experience in the leadership of

RECREATION

l

recreational activities should be included in the
professional preparation of teachers.

Recreation for Youth—in Libraries

I. Books and periodicals, recordings, and other
materials are a part of public services for leisure
and should be available to all young people. Where
these materials are not easily accessible, they
should be brought to youth by bookmobile or other
means, and young people should be taken to li—
braries, museums, and other points of interest.

2. Local or regional public libraries with appro-
priate services are essential in a recreation pro—
gram. Local and State public library authorities
should study the needs of their communities.

3. Young people should be encouraged to turn
to books, libraries, and museums for information
and pleasure. They should be consulted in plan-
ning library services through, for example, youth
advisory committees. Reading rooms centering
upon youth interests should be provided.

Recreation—in Camps

Camping contributes to the health, welfare, edu-
cational, and recreational needs of all age groups

_ and is particularly helpful toward a secure happy

life for children. It is acknowledged that better
camping for more children is needed to meet the
increasing demands of the times. An ‘effort should
be made toward expanding and strengthening exist—
ing programs and the development of new facili-
ties where needed under agency, organizational,
and independent auspices.

It is recommended that——

I. Appropriate facilities for a variety of types
of camping be developed.

2. Camping facilities, public, voluntary, and
private, be fully utilized.

3. There should be more camping opportunities
available to all groups within the population.

4. The need be met for qualified leadership.

5. Community planning should be undertaken
for the full development of camping programs to
meet the diversified needs of all camps.

6. Communities should establish camping coun-
cils composed of all interested public, voluntary,
and private organizations.

7. Communities should make a survey and study
of local camping resources and needs in coopera-
tion with all public, voluntary agencies, and pri—
vate camping interests.

MAY 1947

Recreation for Youth—in Institutions

for Juvenile Delinquents

1. Recreation_must be regarded as an essential
human need in the same sense as eating, sleeping,
working, and going to school, and must, therefore,
be included with similar attention and emphasis
among the services of all institutions for juvenile
delinquents.

2. In correctional institutions recreation should
be regarded as an. essential part of normal living
and be positively deveIOpmental of individual fit—
ness, social usefulness, and citizenship; and should
rarely, if ever, be used as a device to fill time or as
a reward or punishment for individual or group
behavior.

3. Institutions for juvenile delinquents, despite
their natures and responsibilities, should minimize
routine and regimentation in their recreation pro-
grams.

4. It is a mutual responsibility for community
recreation service (public, private-—-—and even com—
mercial) and institutional recreational services to
become acquainted with each other, the problems,
needs, and resources of each, and the possibility of
cooperative services in the interest of society—and
to work out effective plans for the use of commu—
nity recreation services by the institutions.

5. Professionally trained and carefully selected
recreation (and/or group work) leaders should be
employed in all institutions for juvenile delin-
quent-s. Recreation leadership is a specialty and not
just anybody’s job. Overworked teachers should
not be burdened with the recreation responsibility-
which demands Spontaneity, freshness and enthusi—
asm, as well as special training. If it is essential to
delegate the recreation leadership to staff members
otherwise employed, assurance must be had that
those who assume the responsibility are adequate
to the job and have sufficient time allotted for it as
a part of regular duties. If volunteers are used,
their qualifications must be satisfactory, and they
should receive continuous in-service training as
well as whatever pre-service refresher training can
be provided.

6. All group work agencies in the community
should be sought for consultations, guidance and
assistance. Group work methods and principles
play a very important role in the recreation work
in correctional institutions.

7. Youth in correctional institutions should have
adequate representation on an advisory board to
determine the nature of the recreation program

99

role of leadership. Young people are entitled to
both share and lead in a democratic society.

8. Recreation has a contribution to make under
those conditions that require “social treatment” of
individuals and groups.

Specific Principles '

Recreation—A Major Necessity and Safeguard

1. Recreation is an important part of a living
process; one of a family of social services. It is
recommended that it be presented to youth posi—
tively, with emphasis on his choice in free time
and on his dignity as an individual, rather than
as a cure—all for his delinquencies.

2. Recreation is a community responsibility. The
community must support, through taxation and
voluntary contributions, adequate facilities and

leadership to be operated by public and private
agencies.

3. Public attitude favorable to an adequate year-
round recreation program should be created and
sustained.

Recreation—A Community Responsibility

I. The community has a responsibility for plan-
ning, financing, and administering recreation ser—
vices that provide facilities, opportunities, leader-
ship and materials. These services must touch all

neighborhoods and reach all children, youth, and
adults. '

Youth Needs

1. Youth needs more than a program of activi-
ties; it wants also responsibilities in the commu-
nity, the Nation, and the world. Young people

given the right opportunities for leadership are a
force for a democratic society.

2. The war accentuated emotional, racial, and
religious tensions among youth. Recreation pro—
grams should be planned to offset these tensions.
Youth needs family life, affection, fellowship, se-

curity, skills, and knowledge of how to work with
others.

3. Older youth need employment opportunities.

4. Youth needs qualified and understanding
adult guidance that permits youth to lead and
plan, as well as to be led. National, State, and
local planning is necessary for the training of such
adult and youth leaders.

5. Coordination between public and private
agencies is needed to close the gaps in services.
Studies should be made in problem areas and plans
evolved by National, State, and local organiza—

98

n

tions, as to how funds, facilities, leadership, public
interpretation, and training can be correlated.

6. Youth needs to be secure, healthy, self-reliant,
responsible, self—disciplined.

Recreation for Youth—in Public
Recreation Agencies

I. Recreation is a public responsibility. There-
fore an appropriation must be made from tax
funds for. its facilities, leadership, and programs.

2. A public recreation system demands adequate
service to all neighborhoods, all races, all ages.
Surveys should be made periodically to test the
extent to which this coverage is occurring.

3. Youth programs must be included in the plan-
ning for all ages. To this end youth should have
representatives on planning councils to articulate
its needs.

4. Voluntary youth agencies and the public de-
partments should coordinate their facilities, lead-
ership, equipment, and volunteer trainingxto make
adequate recreation services available to all youth
in all areas.

5. By continuous interpretation, the community
should work for the provision of wholesome com-
mercial recreation.

Recreation—in Schools

I. School facilities should be operated, beyond
school hours, as community centers. Education for
leisure should also be given through the school
curriculum and otherwise in the choice of leisure—
time activities.

2. Schools should cooperate with and comple-
ment the home in planning for the leisure-time
choices and activity skills.

3. Schools should join with other agencies, park
boards, recreation commissions, social agencies,
youth‘serving organizations, recreation organiza-
tions, in a coordinated approach to recreation. An
advisory community-school recreation committee
is essential.

4. State legislation is often needed to empower
school districts to spend funds to operate recrea-
tion programs.

5. The functional design of school facilities
should provide for school and community use.

6. When schools operate recreation programs,
leaders trained in recreation should be employed.
These duties should not be assigned to teachers as
an extra duty, or to teachers who may not have the
necessary qualifications.

7. Training and experience in the leadership of

RECREATION

 

recreational activities should be included in the
professional preparation of teachers.

Recreation for Youth—in Libraries

1. Books and periodicals, recordings, and other]!

materials are a part of public services for leisure
and should be available to all young people. Where
these materials are not easily accessible, they
should be brought to youth by bookmobile or other
means, and young people should be taken to li-
braries, museums, and other points of interest.

2. Local or regional public libraries with appro—
priate services are essential in a recreation pro-
gram. Local and State public library authorities
should study the needs of their communities.

3. Young people should be encouraged to turn
to books, libraries, and museums for information
and pleasure. They should be consulted in plan-
ning library services through, for example, youth
advisory committees. Reading rooms centering
upon youth interests should be provided.

I Recreation—in Camps

Camping contributes to the health, welfare, edu-
cational, and recreational needs of all age groups
and is particularly helpful toward a secure happy
life for children. It is acknowledged that better
camping for more children is needed to meet the
increasing demands of the times. An ‘effort should
be made toward expanding and strengthening exist—
ing programs and the development of new facili-
ties where needed under agency, organizational,
and independent auspices.

It is recommended that -—

I. Appropriate facilities for a variety of types
of camping be developed.

2. Camping facilities, public, voluntary, and
private, be fully utilized.

3. There should be more camping opportunities
available to all groups within the population.

4. The need be met for qualified leadership.

5. Community planning should be undertaken
for the full development of camping programs to
meet the diversified needs of all camps.

6. Communities should establish camping coun-
cils composed of all interested public, voluntary,
and private organizations.

7. Communities should make a survey and study
of local camping resources and needs in coopera-
tion with all public, voluntary agencies, and pri-
vate camping interests. o

MAY 1947

Recreation tor Youth—in Institutions

for Juvenile Delinquents

1. Recreationmust be regarded as an essential
human need in the same sense as eating, sleeping,
working, and going to school, and must, therefore,
be included with similar attention and emphasis
among the services of all institutions for juvenile
delinquents.

2. In correctional institutions recreation should
be regarded as an. essential part of normal living
and be positively developmental of individual fit-
ness, social usefulness, and citizenship; and should
rarely, if ever, be used as a device to fill time or as
a reward or punishment for individual or group
behavior.

3. Institutions for juvenile delinquents, despite
their natures and responsibilities, should minimize
routine and regimentation in their recreation pro-
grams.

4. It is a mutual responsibility for community
recreation service (public, private—and even com-
mercial) and institutional recreational services to
become acquainted with each other, the problems,
needs, and resources of each, and the possibility of
cooperative services in the interest of society—and
to work out effective plans for the use of commu-
nity recreation services by the institutions.

5. Professionally trained and carefully selected
recreation (and/or group work) leaders should be
employed in all institutions for juvenile delin-
quents. Recreation leadership is a specialty and not
just anybody’s job. Overworked teachers should
not be burdened with the recreation responsibility
which demands spontaneity, freshness and enthusi-
asm, as well as special training. If it is essential to
delegate the recreation leadership to staff members
otherwise employed, assurance must be had that
those who assume the reSponsibility are adequate
to the. job and have sufficient time allotted for it as
a part of regular duties. If volunteers are used,
their qualifications must be satisfactory, and they
should receive continuous in-service training as
well as whatever pre-service refresher training can
be provided.

6. All group work agencies in the community
should be sought for consultations, guidance and
assistance. Group work methods and principles
play a very important role in the recreation work
in correctional institutions.

7. Youth in correctional institutions should have
adequate representation on an advisory board to
determine the nature of the recreation program

99

compatible with the possibilities and purposes of
the institutions. .

Recreation tor Youth—in Housing Developments

I. Recreation in a housing development should
be so planned as to be part of the community rec-
reation program. Its residents should participate in
programs both inside and outside the development.

2. The facilities built on housing developments
should be open to the public and jointly planned
with recreational authorities. All youth must be
welcome to project youth centers.

3. Recreation facilities should be planned as an
essential part of the housing development.

4. The pooling of funds and resources by hous-
ing developers and recreational agencies must be
encouraged.

5. The primary responsibility to provide facili-
ties and services to housing residents belongs to

the entire community of which the housing de-
ve10pment is a part.

6. Housing recreation programs should not be
justified on the basis of protecting property solely.

7. Recreation programs are an important con-
tribution to tenant-management relations.

8. Tenant organization should have a part in
the planning of programs. Youth should have rep—
resentation.

9. The program of activities should be based on
community needs.

IO. Tenant committees should help in the financ-

ing, publicizing, and extension of recreation op-
portunities.

II. Management should guide and encourage
activity committees.

I2. Diversified year-round program, catering
to many interests and all ages, should be conducted
under leadership paid by local recreation agencies.
Resident volunteer leadership should be encour-
aged and used under adequate supervision.

Recreation tor Youth—in the Home

I. The family has an obligation to support com-
munity recreation programs. Families encourage,

support, and help develop public and community
recreation systems.

2. Recreation in the home and by the family
group is so vital a need that the school, the church,
and all recreation agencies share in responsibility
for its further development. To this end both rec-
reational teaching and recreational curriculum need
exploring, to develop an interpretation of leisure
as a desirable factor in our social structure and to

100

~ promote interests and skills suitable for family use
- in enriching the

Nation’s home recreational
culture.

3. Every child should participate in at least one
organized recreation group that meets regularly
year-round. This opportunity should be provided,
and the widest participation encouraged. ‘

4. Every child must have time free from family
chores and responsibilities for recreation. Families
should plan their work so as to permit and en-
courage the youngsters to participate in whole-
some recreation both in the home and community.

Recreation tor Youth—in Industry

I. There should be a program for recreation for
all industrial workers. Recreation in industry
should stress recreation for the entire family and
should place particular emphasis on recreation for
the children of parents employed in industry. The
worker whose wife and children are finding living
enjoyable because of appropriate opportunities for
investing their own leisure time is apt to be a sat-
isfied and efficient worker.

2. Recreation in industry should be a coopera-
tive enterprise between labor and management
(and the total community with its public and
private agencies). Such recreation opportunities
should be looked on as a rightful expectancy and
not as a charity or paternalistic enterprise.

3. Recreation in industry should not only extend
far beyond company teams and exhibition groups,
but should reach far beyond the sports field and
include activities in drama and music, arts and
crafts, nature lore, hobby clubs, the social field,
discussion groups, and special events.

4. The nature of recreation services in industry
should be determined by the employees.

5. Recreation in industry should provide a wide
variety of opportunities for adults of both sexes.
Parents who invest their off-the-job time with
pleasures and profit provide stimulating examples
for youth. “Families who play together are apt
to stay together.” Youth should participate and
have a voice in the planning.

6. Recreation in industrial plants should be
headed by a recreation coordinator (and whatever
additional professional assistance is necessary and
feasible). The competitive program is one element
of the total program. Coaches or directors of Special
activities should be responsible to the recreation

coordinator.

7. The athletic program of a company or a
plant concerned with company teams should be

RECREATION

.—'._.—. —____ _

the responsibility of an athletic director who is a
staff member.

8. It is desirable in large plants that a special
assistant to the recreation coordinator be provided
to give full time to youth and family opportunities
and programs.

9. It is the mutual responsibility of communities
and industrial plants to become acquainted with
each other’s needs, resources, and opportunities for
cooperation and to do everything possible to share
facilities and assure adequate service for all con-
cerned. It is industry’s responsibility to supplement
community recreation services for the workers, and
it is the community’s responsibility to complement
the industrial recreation services.

10. Municipal recreation systems might well
provide staff members with major responsibilities
for bringing about full cooperation with recreation
in industrial plants in or near the community.

11. Recreation facilities for industrial plants
should include boys’ and girls’ camps and family
picnic areas whenever possible.

Recreation for Youth—in Churches

1. Churches and agencies promoting recreation
as part of their program should take seriously the
matter of providing training opportunities for the
development of an intelligent and adequate lead—
ership. More harm than good often~ comes as the
result of poorly conceived and badly led activities.

2. Juvenile delinquency is becoming an increas-
ingly grave problem. The church, along with other
agencies, must do its part in the solution of this
problem. Adequate recreation is part of the answer.
Therefore, the church, cooperating with all of the
agencies in the community, should feel a respon—
sibility for seeing that adequate recreation oppor-
tunities are available. In such plans as are made,
the planning group, whatever it be, should be
aware that the delinquency angle is only a part of
the total problem of leisure. The whole matter of
enriching life for people who will never be listed
as delinquents is also part of the recreation lead-
er’s problem.

3. The church should cooperate in setting up
community recreation programs. No church and
no other single agency alone can do all that needs
to be done.

0

Coordination of Community Recreation

I. An effort should be made to integrate and
coordinate the physical and human resources of all
local agencies and organizations toward the end of
joint planning and action for recreation.

MAY 1947

2. Coordination of and planning for recreation
should be continuously related to comprehensive
community planning.

3. A council for coordinating recreation should
be established in each community, and if such in-

strument is in existence effort should be‘made to
strengthen it.

4. In larger communities consideration should
be given to the establishment of coordinating coun-
cils on a neighborhood basis.

5. Local coordinating councils should give seri-
ous consideration to such problems as duplication
of agency services, spheres of operation, planning
of capital improvements, etc.

6. Coordinating councils should extend them-
selves in creating favorable public opinion, negoti-
ating advantages for the work, and campaigning
for high standards of leadership, "programs, and
facilities.

7. Coordinating councils should encourage co-
operative undertakings, such as (a) training in—
stitutes, and (b) joint use of facilities, etc.

Basic Elements of Recreation Service
Planning

I. Recreation’services must be planned intelli-
gently. An inventory of all current facilities, pro-
grams, and services is required in order to deter-
mine total resources, needs, and deficiencies. Each
community should have a master, long-range plan
relating to all existing and potential areas and fa-
cilities. It is important that this plan include 'rec-
ommendations with regard to (a) functional de-
sign of individual areas and facilities, (b) schedule
of priorities for development and should also be
related to comprehensive and total planning.

Legislation

I. Every community should have broad recrea—
tion legislation, either through ordinance or char-
ter, making it possible to establish and operate
local recreation programs and services with tax
funds.

2. Each state should have a broad recreation en-
abling act to make it possible for a single com-
munity or combination of communities to provide
public recreation programs for their people within
and without their community.

*****

Finance

1. One prime measure of any community recre-
ation system is the amount of money available for
its operation. A community recreation system may
be likened to a tripod, the legs of which are com-

101

posed of (a) facilities, (b) program, (c) leader-
ship. The size and strength of these three basic
supports depend upon the amount of money that
is available for each. The larger the appropriations
the more adequate the recreation system.

2. Maximum utilization of recreation facilities
is only possible where ample funds are available
for leadership and program and where full opera-
tional and maintenance funds are provided.

3. The relationship of operational costs and
capital expenditures must be borne constantly in
mind, and recreation plans should anticipate and
provide for additional operational and maintenance
costs where additional facilities are to be added.

4. Long-range recreation planning and full co-
ordination of all community recreation forces are
essential to the financing of a recreation system.

5. Recreation systems for the Nation as a whole
are inadequately financed. Each community should
study its own needs and initiate action toward
meeting deficiencies. The first steps in such a study
will be consideration of the three “whats” of plan-

ning: What do we have? What .do we need? What
can we do about it?

Areas and Facilities

I. The community should have a plan'for the
systematic development of facilities for all public
and private services to the community and to the
family including recreation and related services.

2. In designing community buildings and plan—
ning area developments, provisions for maximum
use, and where possible, for multiple use, are of
primary importance. School buildings, certainly in
small towns, should include provisions for all com—
munity services to children and families and for
community recreational and educational activities.

3. Public and private agencies should cooperate
in coordinating the use of their.facilities and in
planning future developments.

4. Local responsibility for the provision of fa-
cilities. The recreation commission or a recreation
advisory council should reach an agreement with
officials on a long-term plan regarding the location
of facilities in all neighborhoods. This plan should
include:

(a) Policies on land acquisition and site selec-
tion.

(b) Recreation departments, councils of social
agencies, school boards, park departments.
citizens’ groups, should use the press, radio,
and the screen to interpret to the general
public the meaning and need of adequate
recreation facilities. Legal counsel, council-
men, and recreation administrators should

102

work for adequate local legislation and en-
abling state legislation for financing recrea—
tion facilities.

5. The state’s role with regard to facilities:

(a) State legislation may be permissive, allow-
ing communities of all classes to acquire,
maintain, and operate facilities ; or it may be
regulatory, such as the Illinois law setting
minimum sanitary requirements for swim-
ming pools and bathing beaches.

(b) The provision of extraordinary facilities in
the way of state parks, demonstration rec-
reation areas, demonstration farms for boys
and girls, and other organized camping op-
portunities.

(c) Urban redevelopment laws permitting cities
to clear blighted areas in slum sections of
cities, and to redevelop parts of them for
recreation facilities.

6. Federal role in recreation facilities:

(a) Conducting research in facility planning.

(1)) Studying costs of operating and maintain—
ing recreation facilities and services.

(c) Studying methods of managing recreation
facilities and services using volunteer, as
well as paid, assistance.

((1) Consultation service on state legislative
practices to help communities and counties

acquire facilities.

(e) Studies and consultative service on the de-
sign, financing, and operation of recreation
facilities and services.

(f) Study of practices with regard to fees and
charges.

Leadership

1. Leadership is the keystone of a recreation
system. It must be exercised in administration
supervision, and in direct on-the—spot situations.

2. American recreation leadership should con-
cern itself with the guidance of movies, comic
strips, etc., into channels beneficial to youth.

3. Leaders must supplement the efforts of par-
ents in skill teaching.

4. Leadership must plan and conduct a program
to channel youth energies positively.

5. Leadership in voluntary activities must try
to influence conduct.

6. Leaders must possess knowledge and under-
standing of people, know how to lead democrati-

RECREATION

.__—_.__—

 

cally, and know the community. They must have
skills in working with people.

7. Leaders should have specialized skill in one
major field; know enough of others to organize
activity.

' 8. Communities should select leaders qualified
by training and experience; should demand of them
standards of performance. They should be certified
by civil service or be under some form of merit
system. For executive and supervisory positions,
local residence should be waived as a preliminary
requirement.

9. Recreation workers should be employed year
around with salaries commensurate to training and
experience and at least equal to the best practices
in the teaching profession.

10. Recreation is. a special area that demands
professional training. All accredited institutions
(colleges and universities) training recreational
leaders should establish an interdepartmental com-
mittee to plan for the most effective utilization of
all of their resources to outline the contribution of
the various departments and courses and programs
for the preparation of such leaders, to most ef-
fectively meet the recreational needs of society.

11. Training must begin with the job analysis
and study of the level of service.

12. Volunteer leaders may be used but must be
trained and supervised. They should understand
the nature and significance of recreation, its prin-
ciples. and methods of leadership.

Governmental Relationships in Recreation——
Federal, State and Local

1. The first and paramount responsibility for
community recreation rests with the local com-
munity,

2. Supplementary technical assistance should be
available to communities, upon request, as, if, and
when it is needed.

3. State recreation services to political subdi-
visions should be of an informational, research,
coordinating, and stimulating nature.

4. Federal Government recreation services to
the States should be of an informational, research,
coordinating, and stimulating nature.

5. Local, State, Federal Governments should
cooperate closely toward the common end of im-
proving community recreation services.

MAY 1947

Statements by Liaison Committees

Statement Regarding Relationship Between

Recreation“and the Police

Recreation departments, in carrying out their
accepted responsibility, should welcome heartily the
cooperation and help of police departments. How-
ever, the Recreation Panel believes that the or-
ganization and conduct of recreation programs,
youth centers and boys’ clubs should be left to
recreation departments and voluntary agencies pri-
marily concerned with such services.

Statement on the Influence of Radio. Motion
Pictures. and Publications on Youth

1. The young people of America find greater
attraction and invest more time and money in mass
entertainment media, such as radio, motion pic-
tures, newspaper comic strips, cartoon books, and
magazines, than they do on all forms of organized
recreational activities combined. Therefore, the
tremendous influence on the thoughts and behavior
of our youth as a result of these modern methods
of expression cannot be overestimated. It is un-
doubtedly true that many producers, directors, and
publishers have earnestly attempted to use their
respective media as a beneficial factor in the guid-
ance of youth. On the other hand, it cannot be
denied that there is a strong popular belief that our
present high juvenile delinquency rate is due in no
small part to the ever—increasing emphasis on vio—
lence and horror in these entertainment media. It
has been stated that this pOpular assumption can
neither be supported nor refuted in fact because all
scientific studies .to date fail to produce valid con-
clusionsthat may be used as a basis for guiding the
various industries involved.

2. Although parents are the greatest controlling
factors in determining the leisure-time pursuits of
children, our recreation leaders have been delin-
quent to a large degree in failing to use their as-
sociation with youth to inculcate a discriminating
taste for higher types of amusement. Further. in
too few instances have recreation administrators
joined forces with local commercial amusement
operators in planning an integrated and construc—
tive community recreation program. This alliance
represents the positive approach whereby modern
entertainment media can complement rather than
be in conflict with any phase of public or commu-
nity recreation.

103

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Let's Adventure in Friendliness—For
Juniors. Let's Adventure in Friend-
Iiness—For Teen-Agers

Published by The Girls’ Friendly Society, U.S.A., 386
Fourth Avenue, New York. 35 cents each.
.HERE ARE PROGRAMS full of suggestions for activities
planned around the family, with sections on care of
children, the group, the parish, the community and the
world. It is excellent material for girls’ club use, and
will be very helpful in planning inter—racial and interna-
tional programs. The focus is on the individual girl, but
there are suggestions for leaders. Both books are at-
tractively illustrated. Recommended.

Maintenance Costs of Public
Tennis Courts

By Laurie Davidson Cox and Rhodell E. Owens. New
York State College of Forestry, Syracuse University,
Syracuse, New York. 80 cents.

THIS BOOK is a very complete study of tennis court
maintenance and operation. It covers details such as

court design, efiicient grouping, comparative costs and

qualities of various types of surfaces, basic construction
with respect to grading and drainage, night lighting fees,
maintenanCe standards, unit costs, annual use. It is worth
careful study by any recreation department planning new
tennis facilities, or analyzing its present tennis program.
Recommended.

Your Move

LEARN CHECKERS FAST, by Tommie Wiswell. David
McKay Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $1.

FORCED CHECKERS, by Anker Jensen. David McKay
Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $1.50. I
HAVE YOU ALWAYS LIKED CHECKERS and yet never had

the opportunity to learn the game correctly? Then
here are two books for you. They are excellent primers
for students and average players with some attention for
the experts, too.

Learn Checkers Post is “an invitation to proficiency”
from a former New York checkers champion, with valu-
able assistance from other checker masters. Model games
on the basic seven openings, an extensive game section,
an introduction to three-move checkers, chapters on the
standard “Golden Dozen” positions, fundamental games,
traps and shots, lartest revised rules for match and tourney
play are just a few Of the features that will interest all
who would be checker players.

Forced Checkers educates Mister Average Player and
students in the rudiments of the game. “The purpose of
this book" is to present the minimum amount of play
necessary for one to know in order to play a top-notch

104

game, without having to study 24 hours daily.” Mr.
Jensen, American correspondence champion, Offers in his
“compilation of unrestricted play” an analysis Of open—
ings and games, problems and illustrative games as played
by champions, practical endings and solutions and other
advice. For added attraction, there are a few pointers on
first position by Alfred Jordan, another world’s checker
champion.

Layout, Building DesignsI and Equip-
ment for Y.M.C.A. Camps

By National Board, Young Men’s Christian Association.
Association Press, New York. $3.00.

ALL WHO ARE CONCERNED with the planning and opera-
tion Of camps will want to see this publication of 48
pages which is designed as a guide in the development of
new camp projects and the rehabilitation of old facilities.
It contains sketches-and floor plans for many types of
structures suggested for a camp with a capacity Of 125.
Each of these plans and sketches is accompanied by a
brief statement pointing out the significant features.
Sewage disposal systems receive special consideration. Al-
though the publication is devoted largely to a considera-
tion of unit facilities and structures, the importance of
developing a master plan of the camp property is stressed
early in the publication, which contains a suggested lay-
out for a property of 45 acres.

 

 

Oliicers and Directors Of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOIIN G. WINANT, First Vice-PreSident -

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH. Englewood, N. J.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER. Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. .Y.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N.  '
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

. C. WALSH, N cw York, N. Y.

REDERIcK M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

May and June I947

REYNOLD CARLSON §uskle9gc2§ Mich. C. H. Hammond, Director of Recreation
0  -
Nature Recreation Nashville, Tenn. Henry Hart, Educational Service, State Depart-
June 2-6_ ment of Conservation
Columbia, S.C . C. West J acocks, State Commission of Forestry
June 10-20
HELEN DAUNCEy-l- Maryville, Mo. Mrs: Donna S. Eek, Chairman, Park and Recrea-
S . l R t. May 5-9 tron Commissron
0°13 ecrea "m *Peorigjélll. R. L. Horney, Superintendent of Recreation
une
*Lexington, Ky. Miss Anna S. Pherigo, Board of Park Commis-
June 9-13 sioners
*Janesville, Wis. Pat Dawson, Department of Physical Education
June 16-17 and Recreation, Janesville Public Schools
*Beloit, Wis. H. L. Jacobson, Department of Recreation, Board
June 18-20 of Education

RUTH EHLERS

Bridgeport, Conn.

P. W. Swartz, Secretary, Council of Social Agen-

S . l R t. May 5-9 cies, 211 State Street
0cm ecrea 10“ *Akron, Ohio A. E. Genter, Director of Recreation
May 12-16
Owensboro, Ky. W. F. Magee, General Secretary, Y.M.C.A.
May 19-23
*Davenport, Iowa Ted Corry, Director of Recreation
June 9-13 _
JANE FARWELL Gates Mills, Ohio Mrs. Irving Gressle
R a1 R t. May  .
in coma Ion Oglebay Institute E. N. Steckel, Oglebay Institute, Wheeling, W. Va.
May 29-June 1

ANNE LIVINGSTON

Parkersburg, W. Va.

W. D. Pearson, Director, Wood County Recreation

S - 1 R . May 5-9 Commission, 1811 St. Mary’s Avenue

061a ecreatlon York, Pa. Mrs. Margaret Andrews, Superintendent of Recre-
May 19-21 ation
*Providence, R. I. John Cronin, Recreation Department
June 2-6
*Steubenville, O. F. Y. Linton, Director, Parks and Recreation
June 9-12 Department

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

Boston, Mass.
May 19-30

State College, Pa.
June 4-6

Rockford, Illinois
June 30-July 11

 

Miss Blanche C. McGowan, Community Recreation
Service of Boston, 739 Boylston Street

A. L. Baker, Agricultural Extension Service,
Pennsylvania State College

Miss Marguerite Cothorn, Booker Washington
Center, 524 Kent Street '

*Summer playground institutes

tMiss Daunoey is the Katherine F. Barker Memorial Field Secretary on Athletics and Recrea-
tion for Women and Girls.

Staff workers of the National Recreation Association are also cooperating this summer in camp
leadership training institutes in South Carolina and Tennessee. Reynold Carlson will direct the nature
program at the South Carolina institute, which is listed above. H. G. Metcalf is to be director of the
Tennessee institute at Montgomery Bell State Park. For further information regarding this institute

write B. R. Allison at White BluE, Tennessee.

“ 0 it is doubtless written in our destiny that

we shall think together, as we shall dance
together, act our plays together and play our
instruments together. These are authentic ways
of social life, for they are lived on the level of
hne arts—on that level, in short, on which man
makes his-conscious selection of the materials of
life and out of them constructs the kind of world

which he desires.”

--H. A. Overstreet in
,. A Guide to Civilized Loanng

(-u

 

