pecans

 

  
 

August 1947

 

Vol. XLI. No. 5
Price 35 Cen’rs

     

H- RECREATION

 jughdf 17 i  '

 

Arts and Crafts for All,
by Anna Preston Shaifner, . . . . . .  . . . 241

Multiple Use (editorial),
‘ 'by Howard Braucher' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217

Recreation: ’The Public’s Responsibility
to the Public . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 219

Special Services in the Veterans
Administration, by F. R. Kerr . . . . . . . . . 221

Playground Patter, by Pearl H. Welch. . . 224
The Haven, by Keith Walker . . . . . . . . . . . 226

A Recreation Board Preserves Its

Identity, by Walter H. Hellmann . . . . . . 229

Music in the Library,
by Katherine Conger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 231

“When You and I Were Young, Maggie” 233

Fun with a Microscope,

by J°S°Ph 1" Owens °°°°°°°°°°°°° °  234 by Robert L. Horney ............... . . 256
29th National Recreation Congress . . . . . . 235“ Gardening AS Recreation,
Roadside Development in Texas, i by Philip Le Boutillier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
by Jae L- Gubbels ------------------ -- 235 World at Play ....................... .. 260 
Caution: BiCYCIeS Ahead, Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262 i.

by Walter H. Zimmerman . . . . . . . . . . . . 238

Seamen Are People, by Gwyn Campbell. 239

Bert Swenson . . . . . . . .  . .' . . . . .  . . . . . . . 243

Swinging on Down, by Bertha Holck. . . . 244

The Other Half of the Playground
Movement, by Henry S. Curtis . . . . . . . . 247

Occupation Soldiers Sound Off—On
Juvenile Delinquency, by Marie Lomas 249

St. Louis Sells Recreation,

by J. A. Turner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 251

.Wales Plays Again, by P. M. Rupert. . . . 252

Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 253

,Le'bert H. Weir ...................... .. 254

Recreation for Convalescents,

New Publications in the Leisure

Time Field . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Cover print by Gedge Harmon
Frontispiece by M onkmeyer

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association. iormerly named Playground and Recreation

Association of America. a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. N. Y.: is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-

class matter June 12. 1929. at the Post Ofiice in New York. New York. under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for

mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1. 1924.

Copyright 1947. by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. 3.1L.

VOLUME FORTY-ONB. NUMBER FIVE

«.t-

 

f 1949
Multiple Use ‘43-“ ~' ‘949

THE WORDS “multiple use” belong very much to recreation, and that right now.

Schooling is associated rightly pretty much with school and college buildings, some
private, some public, but still schools.

The work of school boards centers pretty much about what happens in a definite school

building, even though it be recognized that education in the large sense takes in all
of life.

Recreation, however, takes place in many different buildings and institutions. It belongs
first of all to the home. It belongs to the church. The schools must teach recrea-
tion skills. The parks are all recreation, are for man’s use in his free time. All
centers of labor are to a degree centers for industrial recreation. Man ought to live
while he works, and before and after. Recreation belongs very much to the mu—
nicipal recreation systems that maintain municipal recreation centers, playgrounds,
swimming pools, bathing beaches, ball fields, summer camps, that help to give
leadership to the home, the church, to all kinds of groups.

All recreation, however, cannot be bottled up in the school, in the park, in the church,
in the Amerlcan Legion Post, in the County Farm .Bureau, the Grange, or in any
other one place.

Recreation depends for its all pervaswe quality in American life upon the “multiple
use” of much property, the “multiple use” of home, church, school, forests. Every
possible effective agency must be sought to use its facilities for the recreation of
the people.

Recreation cannot wisely be left entirely to the schools, entirely to the parks. A munici-
pal recreation board must make use of school, park and other special property. A
state recreation board, wherever placed, wisely works closely with state school
authorities, state park authorities, state college of agriculture extension services.

Recreation, of course, is an outstanding separate division of life, like religion, educa—
tlon, labor—yet it is related to all other divisions. serves all other divi31ons and IS
served by them.

You do not make recreation bigger, you do not render a greater service through recrea—

tion by pulling it out of the natural relations of life and trying to pile it all up
in one place. ‘

v

A profession that loses its own life in servicehto humanity will find itself and williind
most growth.

A recreation profession that would attempt to pull recreation out of school, park.
church, club, home, and centralize recreation in one place would in the end not
only lessen 1ts own usefulness, but also lessen its own standing and prestlge.

iRecreation is too big to be bottled up in any one place.
* Recreation by its very nature must accept the “multiple use” principle and build upon it.

Recreation is a very simple force, like steam or electricity, yet it has great power within

I I it, is useful for its own sake in releasing joy and growth, and contributes heavily
to all other divisions of life.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

1 217

 

   
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

natural recreational resources which have

remained unutilized or rarely used and which
can be developed into vital areas in which “to walk
abroad and recreate yourselves.” Mountainous or
hilly areas, lakes, ponds, rivers and stretches of
woodland, to name but a few, all can be made to
fill a community need at little or no cost, depend-
ing upon the volunteers available.

The old formula of a ball field and a boys’ or
girls’ club as being the sine qua non in recreation
is being proven a fallacy by the increase of youth—
ful offenders and we must widen our horizOn and
balance the recreational diet to meet the demands
and challenge of modern youth.

Adventure in play has become a prime necessity
and I became fully conscious of the need by a let-
ter addressed to me as Coordinator of Recreation
for the City of Boston, by a 15-year-old boy who
wrote:

“It seems that in Boston the only ones that get
anything done for them are the boys that are good
in sports or the ones that get into trouble of one
kind or another. If the teen-agers try to lead a
good life their life is pretty dead and excitement
seldom enters into it.”

This letter made a profound impression upon me
and I began to explore the possibilities of supply-
ing opportunities for “excitement” or the better
word, adventure, for the youngsters. I found that
with very little money we could make infinitely
wider use of the Blue Hills nearby and the lovely
Charles River. Called Quineboquin by the Algon-
quins, which means circular, “that fairest reach. . .
the Charles” as Captain John Smith (of James:
town Colony fame) wrote of it, has been in its
quiet majesty a part of this community for cen-
turies and has seen its banks change from quaint
Indian villages to Puritan towns and thence into a
hriving metropolis.

NEARLY EVERY COMMUNITY in America has

UGUST 1947

Recreation: The. Public's Responsibility
to the Public

By ALBERT WEST

Board of Recreation
Boston. Mass.

At its basin there is a great stretch of deep
water where Recreation Commissioner Joseph Lee
taught many thousand youngsters how to sail in
boats they built themselves from hisidesign. This
program has become a significant part of Boston’s
recreation and is now operated by Community Rec-
reation Service of Boston, without the aid of pub-
lic funds, but with the cooperation of the Metro-
politan District Commission, a state supported and
vital public agency.

The Charles River is over one hundred miles in
length and much of it is in country as wild as it
used to be when the Brook Farm was on its banks

'more than IOO years ago. Writing about the river

country on April 28, 1841, shortly after his ar-
rival, Nathaniel Hawthorne said: “If the middle
of the day prove warm and pleasant, I promise
myself to take a walk—I have taken one walk and
I could not believe that there is such seclusion at
so short a distance from a great city. Many spots
seem hardly to have been visited for ages—not
since John Eliot preached to the Indians here. If
we were to travel a thousand miles we could not
escape the world more completely than we can
here.”

Hawthorne’s words fit the scene today quite as
well. The reason for this is found in the topography
of the place. The river bank is high for several
thousand yards and the valleys behind it are in—
undated during the high water in the early spring,
with the result that it has become a natural bird
and small animal sanctuary.

But with the Brook Farm only a memory, I
found that even fewer people were taking the walk
so interestingly described by Hawthorne.

Beginnings

There was no public money available but with a
small donation I hired an abandoned boat house
and bought and borrowed a couple of canoes. The

219

 

"All aboard!”

late Dr. Thomas Barbour of Harvard, who was
Director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology,
gave me some camping equipment and I looked
around for some volunteers to start a camping-
canoeing project to supply adventure to city-pent
adolescents like the one the poet Keats wrote

about:

“The imagination of a boy is health and the
mature imagination of a man is healthy; but there
is a space of life between, in which the soul is a
ferment, the character undecided, the way of life
uncertain, and the ambition thick-sighted.”

The boat house, which we named the Quinebo-
qui-n Camping Club, was within easy reach of all
Boston boys whose natural desire to go camping
was never satisfied because of their inability to
finance trips into the woods. Trips are carefully
planned and supervised up or down the river which
extends some 60 miles beyond the boat house.
Ideal camping country abounds in the river coun—
try, the best of which is the Rocky Narrows
Reservation maintained by the Trustees of Public
Reservations, another volunteer group whose func—
tion it has been to reclaim forest areas for the use
and enjoyment of the people of Massachusetts.

The setting of a long winding river with birds
new and strange to city youth is ideal, and the
spectacle of wild grapevines hanging from the top-
most branches of tall oaks on the river’s edge and
dropping into the water lends a tropical setting
which adds to the illusion of being in some place
remote and exciting with, perhaps, lurking Indians
and imaginary dangers everywhere.

The Boston Police Department cooperates by
maintaining a police patrol motor launch at the

220

boat house and by assigning two
recreation trained police officers
whose enthusiasm and help have
been invaluable in carrying on the
program. A father of one of the
boys is the volunteer handy man
about the place and he has saved
us many dollars by his ever will-
ing assistance. Our best man gave
up a paid position in a boys’ club
to come and work twice as hard
for nothing because he saw
greater possibilities in this new
approach.

I

Other Activities

In the winter months, skating

parties, snowshoeing, and ice fish-

ing are the order of the day and the fellowship of

our outdoor and indoor fireplaces is no small part

of the year-round enriching and memorable experi-

ences enjoyed by the boys. of the Quineboquin
Camping Club.

This, or better projects for youth, can be initi-
ated by private citizens, with a public zeal, and
paid for by private funds raised by a variety of
methods, as well as by public officials with public
money. There are only a few guide posts to follow
and a few pitfalls to avoid. Ralph Waldo Emerson
wrote, “Nothing great was ever achieved without
enthusiasm.” There will have to be a keen desire
to want to provide an effective antidote for the
ever increasing restlessness of youth. Thought first,
then action. “The great man is he who does not
lose his child’s heart,” was said by Confucius
nearly 2500 years ago and it still goes in working
with youth. Unless you really know and appreciate
their point of view you’ll be wasting their time
and your own. Finding out their point of view
will be the reward for your efforts on their behalf
because it will bring back to you your own “child’s
heart” in the event that you may have lost it.

Of course if you do not have a river like our
Charles, you cannot plan a camping-canoeing pro j-
ect. But, as I have suggested, every community
has some natural recreational resources which can
be developed. Perhaps you can best help by sup—
plementing the work of some already existing
group whose lack of funds is responsible for its
lack of action. What is wanted is a workable youth
project and your combined efforts may result in
getting.what is needed. Investigate, explore. in-
quire. Take nothing for granted, nor anybody’s
word for anything, if. you are going to secure the
money or effort necessary for success.

RECREATION

 

SPecial Services 

in the Veterans Administration

By F. R. KERR

F.

Assistant Administrator for Special Services '
Veterans Administration

HE PRIMARY PURPOSE in the operation of the

Special Services program in Veterans Admin-

istration is to raise the morale of patients in
the hospitals by furnishing those things which can
make their stay more pleasant and thus facilitate
their recovery.

If one man in each hospital had to do all the jobs
which are performed under the name of Special
Services he would be a recreation technician, a
theatrical entertainment director, a musician, a 1i-
brarian, an athletic coach, a minister (an amalga-
mation of Jewish, Catholic and Protestant), a
merchant, a newspaperman, a movie projectionist,
radio announcer, playground director, circus
barker, diplomat, and general factotum. .

Since no one man has been found to fill all those
jobs, in the average VA hospital it has been found
necessary to secure specialists in fields for which
the Office of Special Services is responsible: Ath-
letic, Canteen, Chaplaincy, Library; Recreation and
Entertainment Services.

For each job, careful efforts have been made to
choose men and women of the highest professional
qualifications in the recreation, religious, merchan-
dising and welfare fields.

It was recently emphasized by General Omar N.
Bradley that sick and wounded veterans have cer-
tain “human needs” to be cared for—over and
above the minimum physical needs. Special Ser-
vices assists in providing those human needs.

The aim of Special Services is two-fold: to assist
in giving the patient a will to get well, and, at the
same time, to keep his interest alive in the normal
activities of life so that he may be better prepared
to take his place in normal living when he is re—
leased from the hOSpital.

That latter point is an important one to remem-
ber, for it is fundamental in our thinking and plan-
ning that our efforts be constantly aimed at return-
ing the veteran to his community, to assist him in

taking his place in that community as a valuable
citizen. '

AUGUST' 1947

We have to recognize, also, that some of our
veteran patients” will not soon return to“ their com-
munities; they will remain for years—many of
them for their entire lives—in our hospitals. And
while patients are being released daily, other
patients are coming in to take their places.

To give proper care to the veteran patient, it
was obvious that we must look at him as an indi-
vidual, not as a number or as a “case.” True, there
are overall general needs that all patients in our
hospitals will have in common. But in addition to
these general needs, there are the particular needs
of sick men and women who for twenty-four hours
a day tend to have their thoughts centered on
themselves, their illnesses, their fears. And these 
fears, as any of us who have been ill can testify,
are magnified often times immeasurably out of all
proportion to their actual importance because we
are ill. ‘

To care for this individual~—this man or woman
-—-t.he Veterans Administration has established, in
addition to its Medical Service, such services— as
Finance, Vocational Rehabilitation and Education”
Claims, Solicitor, Insurance, Construction and
Supply, Legislation, Contact, and Special Services.

Many of these services are not limited to the
veterans in our hospitals; they are established in
the interests of all veterans. The Medical Service
and Special Services, however, have as our respon-
sibility the veterans with a disability, the men and
women who have been crippled or broken in mind
or body or spirit. .

The connection, the careful coordination between ‘
the Medical Service and Special Services, stems
from this basicresponsibility for the care of the
hospitalized veteran. Since the primary purpose of
all veteran patients’ care must be pointed toward
ultimate healing, General Bradley has directed that
our efforts in Special Services be closely coor—
dinated with the Medical Service and that nothing
we do be permitted to interfere in any way with
the accomplishment of the primary mission.

221

In our Library Service alone we have one of the
greatest tasks ever to face a librarian. The director
of this far-flung library system is at the head of an
organization servicing potentially more than 200
libraries all the way from Togus, Maine, to Ameri-
can Lake, Washington, and from Fargo, North
Dakota, to Miami Beach, Florida. The Director of
the Library Service is responsible for providing
library facilities for both patients and staff. He
must have available the latest publications in medi—
cal literature and scientific development—both
those published in this country and abroad—in the
rapidly advancing field of medicine for ready access
by our “medical service second to none.” At the
same time, he must provide a depository of reading
material for a patient group whose tastes are the
height of catholicity, running all the way from
“L’il Abner” to differential calculus.

The Athletic Service was created to plan and
carry forward programs in the field of sports.
Actually the idea of “hospital athletics” may sound
incongruous to you at first thought. Indeed, for
obvious reasons, the programs of athletics as we
know them in our high schools and colleges have,
in general, been modified for use at our hospitals.
But because the muscular and nervous systems of
patients must be kept alert and active, we are
carrying on a_well-rounded program of athletic
activities adapted to their needs, interests, physical
limitations, and levels of skill. And, although heavy
muscular activity, mass participation, and higth
competitive sports play only a small role in this
specialized athletic program, we like to think that
the term is no misnomer; we know that psycho-
logically the idea of using the term “athletics” is
good, for it is another of our endeavors to keep the
attention of the veteran patients focussed on the
normal in their lives as much as possible.

But do not for a moment think that our athletic
program is lacking in eminently skillful athletes.
As you know, paraplegic patients are those with
paralysis from the waist down. Yet, just recently
several bowling teams composed entirely of para—
plegic patients in wheelchairs, at several VA
paraplegic centers, competed in a National Ten-
pin Bowling Team Championship, conducted by
telegraph. These bowlers ask no “handicap”—in
fact the handicap they now have is all but forgotten
as they become absorbed. in the thrill of getting the
strikes and spares which may mean victory for
their team. While awards were made to the win-
ning teams and to the three highest scorers, actu-
ally all those who competed were Winners. Be—
cause, far more important than bowling-proficiency,
they have demonstrated their ability to defeat the

222

 

Francis R. Kerr

morale-destroying consciousness of handicap, and
they also have demonstrated powers of physical re-
adjustment which will go far toward helping them
meet the competition of every day life in the out-
side world!

Sports apparatus—and even the rules—are ad~
justed to suit the condition of patients. This is
termed “adapted” athletic activity. Sideboards are
put up on ping-pong tables so that patients playing
from wheelchairs will not knock the balls 'off the
table. A paraplegic patient who wanted to work
out on the parallel bar had a special harness made
to support his legs. Archery bows were whittled
down for tuberculous patients so that they do not
require so much pulling power to release the
arrow. Basketball rules were changed so that play-
ers in wheelchairs were not obliged to dribble the
ball. In softball, it is illegal to slide into bases;
that means fewer injuries. There have been no
major injuries in the whole athletic program for
hospitalized veterans. Safety is a watchword.
Minor injuries —such as a sprained ankle or
bruised finger—number approximately one in
20,000 participations. The possibility of many in—
juries is precluded, of course, at the outset when
patients must receive clearance from their doctors
prior to participation in the adapted and safe Spe—
cial Services’ athletic program.

- RECREATION

In the endeavor to give attention to our patients
as individuals, careful thought has been given to
their spiritual needs. The Chaplaincy Service has
been established in which recognition is given to

“the three major faiths, Protestant, Catholic, and
I

IIewish. A quota is maintained to insure equitable
representation for all and so that every patient may
Ifollow his religious inclination. The Chaplaincy
Service is organized to provide one full-time chap-
Iliin for approximately every 500 patients, with
art-time chaplains as needed. The major emphasis
this highly important service is placed on bed-
de ministry. In this personalized and individual-
ed service, the chaplain has the opportunity to
arn intimately the spiritual needs‘ of the patient

( id to bring him courage and the solace of the

qhurch.

l Our Canteen Service provides the patient with
t‘lOSC articles of use and convenience which, be-
(Luse of his hospitalization, he is unable to procure
otherwise. When the patient is ambulatory, he has
tile opportunity of “going to the store,” of going
himself to the canteen to make his own purchases.
’hen he is bedfast, a portable canteen, or ward
rt, is brought to his bedside on a regular sched—
1e. Careful attention is given to the choice of
ems made available in the canteens as well as [to
1e display of the merchandise in an,attractive
1anner. The emphasis, as indicated before, is on
urrounding the patients with as much “normalcy”
is possible. Because the Canteen Service is a busi-
ess organization, it is strictly controlled _by ade-
uate audits and inspections. Prices are kept low,
nd any profits that accrue revert to the Federal
reasury.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 

Recreation and Entertainment Service is broken
own into various divisions—movie, recreation,
ntertainment, and music. First-run motion pic—
1res are shown three times a week in hospital
eaters. For those patients unable to get up from
d and go to the auditoriums, projectors and
reens are brought into the wards and movies are
own on 16 mm. film.

Stage entertainment is encouraged locally in
spitals by recreation aides and other trained per—
nel. Such shows by and for the patients are
3! gmented by professional shows brought in by the
SO, the American Theater Wing, and local
c mmunity amateur and semi—professional groups.

I Many hospitals have centralized public address
15 stems, and a few have more complete three-
annel radio units, with a broadcasting studio for
spital “wardcasts.” Patient-produced radio
5 ows, including the best of the talent available in

GUST 1947

the hospital and community, present regular pro-
grams which are heard by bedfast patients, many
of whom are equipped with pillow headphones.

Interwoven with this myriad of entertainment
and also a program in itself is the music activity.
Glee clubs, choirs, bands, orchestras, quartets, and
concerts are among featured results already
obtained.

Dances, parties, and other special social events
are arranged, usually with the wholehearted assist-
ance of volunteer groups living in cities near VA
hospitals. Volunteers contribute their assistance
through committees called VA Voluntary Service
Committees, organized at local, regional, and na-
tional levels. Members of the national committee
are: American Legion and Auxiliary, American
National Red Cross, Disabled American Veterans
and Auxiliary, United Service Organizations, Inc.,
American \Vomen’s Voluntary Services, Inc.,
American Veterans of \Vorld War 11, Association
of Junior Leagues of America, Inc., B’nai B’rith
and the Women’s Supreme Council of B’nai B’rith,
Catholic \Var Veterans, Jewish War Veterans of
the United States and Auxiliary, Masonic Service
Association, Military Order of the Purple Heart,
Inc., National Society of Service Star Legion,
\Vomeu’s Overseas Service League, Marine Corps
League, and the Benevolent and Protective Order
Of Elks of the United States.

Patients produce their oWn newspapers in VA
hospitals under the sponsorship of Special Ser-
vices. Journalism is flourishing in the wards. Bed-
fast patients are furnished with portable typewrit-
ers. Each ward has its correspondent. Reading a
hospital neWSpaper is like looking into the wards,
getting a picture of what the patients are saying to
each other and what they think of their treatment
in veterans’ hospitals in this year of 1947. -

Reading these newspapers, it is Obvious that
there is a new spirit in veterans’ hospitals. It’s a
brighter spirit, and Special Services brings to
patients many of those things which help to make
hospital life agreeable.

At a recent meeting in W’ashington, Horace M.
Albright of New York City was elected chairman
of the board of directors of the American Planning
and Civic Association, and Major General Ulysses
S. Grant III of Washington was elected president
of the organization. Major General Grant is chair-
man of the National Capitol Park and Planning
Commission.

223

I' 

‘ o 0 ((5: (a. I“
." - , l,
0 \
é h ’
\
\- ’ .. g
b i <3
0

 

Playground Patter

 

By PEARL H. WELCH

Play Director
Bixby Park. Playground
Long Beach. California

II E saw A DEAD CAT in a vacant lot———a real
w live dead cat!” is a profound statement
made by one of the children on my play—
ground. It has been duly recorded in the little note-
book I keep handy for jotting down the funny, in-
teresting, clever and sometimes pathetic remarks
of the youngsters who frequent Bixby Park Play-
ground. ’

My hobby began at home where I would write
down some of the things my own two children
said, and I carried it over to the playground. It
has provided me with many chuckles and a better
understanding and appreciation of whimsical child-
hood. It’s a stimulating hobby that many .play-

ground leaders would find satisfying and worth—
while.

“. . . His Sisters and His Cousins

and His Aunts”

Relatives run around like squirrels on a tread-
mill in the minds of the children and create mis-
conceptions that would shake the family tree.
Aunts and uncles and sisters and brothers and
mothers and fathers there are, to be sure, but who’s
who and how and why are problems for explora-

tion by more experienced minds.
“All her brothers are boys.”
“My brother is 200 and my mother is 18.”

“When your mamma was a baby, then you was a
mamma, wasn’t you?”

“My daddy’ll be six.”

224

“Are you girls sisters?” “No, we’re just twins.”
“I want my son,” said a four-year-old boy when
hunting his brother.

“See that baby over there? It’s our grandson,”
said a seven-year-old boy.

‘5

Time o’Clock

Time is an unfathomable as far as most children
are concerned. The hands of the clock signify noth-
ing to them and they measure the fleeting hours in
lapses between activities or in terms they have

heard adults use.

“When will it be after-awhile ?”
“Is it five hours from a half-hour ago?”
“When is pretty soon going to come?”
“Is it time o’clock to go home?”
“Is it after half past church ?”
“V\’hen o’clock is it going to be time ?”
'Errors in grammar are frequent, as is expected,
but the replies to the correction of such errors are:

gems of naivete. One child related, “Me and
little boy played that once.” The play director cor-
rected him, “A little boy and I played that once.”'‘
“\N ho won, you?”

Another child said, “I want a puzzle,” and the

play director repeated, “May I have a puzzle,
please?” “I haven’t any.” ’

Strictly Webster!

Confusion reigns regarding the right usage 0
words. Sometimes the logic is right, but when i .
comes to figuring out nouns and verbs and adjeci
tives, the English language plays funny tricks
Mrs. Malaprop would feel ’at home among som<{

of these :

“We had a funner time.” '

“It’s all bursting down.” (A ball being deflated.)

“That’s not a dime. It’s ten cents.”

“Is it an alley cat?” “No, it’s a tom cat.”

“I want a needleha needle with a head on.”

“May I have those things to make that with ?”

“My dog’s nickname is Napoleon. His real name
is Nappie.”

“Do you want to be a ‘poemer’ when you grow up?”

“Are you unbusy ?”

“Stand down.”

“He chased her into the ladies restaurant.”
(Rest room.)

 

RECREATIO

“See my new dog? He’s a petrified
(pedigreed) dog”

“Up our apricot tree the peaches are
ripe.” _

“May I have a pin with a hole in it?
A sewing pin ?”

“He’s a thoroughbred mongrel.”

They Speak with Authority

Ever watch the children’s ex-
pression when they make solemn
and matter-of-fact statements that
l-are miles from the truth, but which
they believe to be absolutely be-
yond question? Their seriousness and
sincerity are touching and the incon—
gruity of the situation is humorous.

One little girl received a new purse
for Christmas and was asked if it was
imported. “Yes,” she replied, “it came
from Iowa.”

“Is your teacher Mrs. or Miss?”
“She’s a Mr. and Mrs. ’cause I saw her

rings-—an engagement and a wedding
ring.”

“Do you know why my hair is so soft and
flquy?” asked a five-year-old girl. “No,
why ?” “I had a manicure on it.”

“Are you a cowboy?”
“I’m a war effort.”

“That penny was made in 1926. That’s
when George Washington was made.”

“Ive got a tack in my shoe. Maybe it’ll be
a tlat shoe.”

“I beat a whole great big kid.”

“Are you a Catholic or Protestant P”
“I’m a cowboy."

Oops!

The sentence is all
there, but the arrange—
ment sometimes seems a
little strange. Perhaps it
makes good sense to them.

“Do you see that little girl
over there eating a carrot
with a sunbonnet on?”

“I went upstairs just after

they’d been watered on
stilts.”

“Have you seen the boy that

sells ice cream with the
blond hair?”

AUGUST 1947

 

 

 

A Few Plums

These are several miscellaneous
remarks made by the children, con—
cerning everything from a philo—
sophic bit about color to the status

of National Recreation Association
workers.

“Green has more shape than red.”

"Orange is a kind of lonesome color
when you look through it.”

“\Vhat do they put the rain-bows in
the sprinkler for?”

“The sunshine's turned off.”

After Bo‘bby had removed the shell from
his hardboiled egg, he remarked, “I
must wash my hands—and my egg.”

“You must have washed your face; it
looks so much cleaner.” “I rinsed it
with my tongue.”

On seeing a poster, complete with photo—
graphs, announcing classes to be led by
three experts sent out by the National
Recreation Association, a child asked,
“Are they ‘wanted’?”

The Mobile Press Register, Mobile,
Alabama, prints a children’s page which

contains reports of playground activities
written and illustrated by the children.

Also appearing on the page arestories
such as these two. The hrstiSsentitled,
“A Prize—Winning Horse”; the second
is “The Wee Little House.” Both are
by 9-year-olds. '

\Ve have a horse his name is Pat. He
has three gaites. He is gold
colored. He won first prize
in 1944, second in 1945, and

did not inter in the horse
show in 1946.

Once there was a wee Lit-
tle house. It was a little
white house it had a little
red roof and a little blue
door. It stood in a wood,
every day the wee little
house said, “I want some one
to live in me! I want some
one to live in me 1” and one
day a little girl and boy
came to live and a Little
Rabbit came to live with
them to. and that was the
end.

225

 

Courtesy Veterans A dminfstration

The Haven

By KEITH WALKER
Palo Alto. California

” 0U MEAN IT’S FREE? But lady, what’s your

Y game?”

Mental patients at the Veterans Adminis-
tration hospital near Palo Alto, California, were
astoniShed when smiling, friendly ladies in white
aprons offered them piping hot coffee and dough-
nuts after the Haven first Opened in August.

It was the first clubhouse manned by. volunteer
workers in the country to be set up at a veterans’
mental hospital,* and it has been so successful,
similar clubhouses are being started by American
Women Volunteer Services at other mental hos-
pitals all over the nation.

'Not that the patients hadn’t been given many
opportunities for recreation. Under the new pro-
gram started by General Bradley, special service
units are providing athletic programs, stage shows,
music for patients. Every week, 347 different ac-
tivities are scheduled at the Palo Alto hOSpital
alone.

But the Haven is a home for the patients, a place
where they can go to relax in an easy chair, listen
to the radio, take their friends and dance with the
nurses or the girls who come from surrounding
communities to volunteer their services.

When I first heard about the Haven, I frankly
was skeptical. Why waste time and effort on a
bunch of people who never would get any benefit

*So far as the Veterans Administration knows.

226

 

_American. When he came to the hospital a fex

from it? Working around a ment
institution was the last thing I’d eve
want to do.

But, when I got there, I found tha
both the hospital employees and th
volunteers at the Haven are intense]
interested in their work and get a 10
of satisfaction out of it. For they ar
helping someone hopeful, not hope
less. Many of these men can be cure
and when one of them reSponds to th
treatment and is 'released from th
hospital to resume his place in a nor
mal life, those who helped him do i
feel proud. And men constantly ar
being' discharged and the Haven i
playing a big part in that rehabilitation

Doctors don’t claim that the Haven by itsel
can cure a man, but they are quick to proclain
that it can play a large part. Many of the men a
the hospital were thrown into an unprotected en
vironment in the service and many of them ha
horrifying combat experiences. They withdrew
inside themselves, and now think of themselve
too much. Such outside attractions as the Have
can draw them away from themselves to the .worl
around them.

 
  
  
   
 
    
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
     
   
 
    
    
   
 
   
 
 
   
    

Paul

A good example is Paul. (That’s not his rea
name, but it will do.) Paul is a handsome, youn

months ago, he was no more than a vegetativ
plant. He just sat with his head against his chest
He wouldn’t talk. He wouldn’t even swallow. H
had to be spoon-fed. '

With treatment, Paul improved. In time he wa
allowed to go about the hospital under the care 0
another patient soon to be discharged whose 11am
was, say, John. John helped with the work at th
Haven, and he brought Paul along.

Soon Paul was helping with the dishes and witl
the cleaning. But. he absolutely refused to talk.

The nurse told him, “Come on, Paul, you ca
talk if you only want to.” Which was trueH—h
talked in his sleep and after his shock treatment
But, no go, Paul wouldn’t talk.

Then “Mom” Stern, who is the director an
personality of the HavenH—without her, it wouldn"
be what it is, but more about that later—Mom too
Paul under her wing, as she has with other patient

After the others left, Mom put her arm aroun
Paul and tried, “Come on, Paul, talk for Mom.’
He smiled, but wouldn’t talk.

RECREATIO

Mom kept after him, trying to encourage him
to take an interest in the world around him.

“Paul, I’m going to give you a sweater for your
birthday,” She baited. “Only I don’t know what
color to get. Do you want blue or yellow ?”

Paul wouldn’t talk.

“All right, if you won’t tell me, you big bum,
why don’t you write it ?” (She loves to call people
“you big bum” in an affectionate waY-)

She got a pencil and paper and set Paul in a
chair at the kitchen table. Then she put a pencil in
his hand.

“What color would you like the sweater to be,
Paul? \V hat color? Write it for Mom.”

He lifted his hand. Mom waited. But he wouldn’t
even write. I

Mom kept working with him. He improved. He
seemed to enjoy coming over. He enjoyed eating.
But he wouldn’t talk.

One day Mom took me over to Paul.

“I’ve brought a friend of mine to meet you,
Paul. Shake hands with him.” Paul dropped his
chin against his chest, that same old way. He was
stubborn. Mom kept coaxing. I put my hand out
and John lifted Paul’s hand to mine and I shook
his hand. But that was all.

Mom came into the Haven one afternoon after

AUGUST 1947

 

being away. Paul was laughing. When he saw
Mom, he turned away.

John explained to her. “We told Paul that when
you came he should jump up and throw his arms
around you and kiss you for all the things you
have done for him.”

Next evening Mom took Paul out to the front
room. She asked the girls to dance with him. They
took him by the hand and led him out to the floor.
He danced, in a slow, walking way, and seemed
to enjoy it. ‘ '

The next night he went to the girls. He didn’t
say a word, but took them to the door, one by one.

One girl suggested a cup of coffee and some
doughnuts. 'All the way up to the counter and all
the time they were eating, Paul wouldn’t let go of
the girl’s hand. I noticediit was red because he
hung on so tight.

Paul had on a pair of black shoes that Mom had
given him. They were really too small, so Mom
decided to get him another pair.

“Here, Paul, I [3011ng you a new pair of shoes.
Put them on.” Paul put them on, walked around.
Then he came back.

“How‘do they fit, Paul?”

“All right.” PAUL TALKED. It was just that sud-
den, that undramatic. And he continued to, from
then on.

 

.. . Hut-“W... NW... Am“. nun...“

Courtesy Veterans Administration

227

“Mom”

Another patient that Mom helped and who later
was discharged came back one day.

“You big bum,” Mom remarked, “I don’t ever
get to see you any more.”

“It’s your own fault,” he replied with a grin,
“You took too good care of me.”

During the war, Mrs. S. E. Stern was head of
the American Women Volunteer Services’ club-
house at Dibble General Army Hospital at Menlo
Park, California, about three miles from the Palo
Alto Veterans’ Hospital. When Dibble Hospital
closed down at the end of the war, the American
Women Volunteer Services’ clubhouse at Dibble
had to close down, too. Mrs. Stern called a meeting
to discuss what to do. The manager of the Veter—
ans’ Hospital and the Chief of Special Services
were there. ,The conversation got around to recre-
ation at the mental hospital.

Suddenly Mom got the idea that the hospital
should have a clubhouse. She spoke of her idea
and both men were very enthusiastic. Three or
four days later they called Mom and asked her to
take charge of a clubhouse at the hospital. The
hospital would erect a prefabricated-type building
in three weeks.

Mom was all packed to go to Indiana for a
month’s vacation. She said she’d think it over.
Her son had been killed flying for the Army Air
Forces during the war. Maybe that had something
to do with her desire to help young veterans. She
thought it over—and unpacked.

Three weeks later the Haven was completed.
The building consisted of a quonset but and a
prefabricated structure placed at one end of the
but to form a T. Stove, refrigerator, tables and
chairs were moved from the clubhouse at Dibble.

The clubhouse was decorated by_patients. One
painted murals, most of them scenes of the hos-
pital grounds, including a picture showing an army
of patients pushing a row of mowers across the
lawn. Another patient covered a wall with the
likeness of an appletree loaded with ripe red
fruit. The murals are pieces of art—they’re good.

Patients are forever bringing in flowers to dec—
orate the hut, and the flowers usually are carefully
picked and arranged to form a bouquet.

The Men

The men appreciate the Haven. They consider it
their own, and probably its greatest compliment is
that it is always full. And, walking in, you would
never know the men are patients in a mental
institution.

Some of the men who are most appreciative of

228

the Haven are shy. One night a man came to the
counter with a quart jar in his hand.

"‘Will you fill it up, lady? And can you spare
a piece of cake? A-a-a-another one? Oh, thank
you, lady, thank you.” He wasn’t thinking of him-
self. He walked out, taking the refreshments to a
guard somewhere out in the cold that night.

Another night a face appeared at the front door
of the Haven. Mom Stern was sitting in the re-
ceptionist’s chair and happened to look up. The
man had never been inside the Haven. He was
talking to himself.

He looked and looked and then muttered, “That’s
our Haven. What a beautiful, beautiful place. \Ve
should be proud of our Haven.”

And then there are the patients who give the
ladies a bad time.

Jim is always eating. He comes to the counter
for a cup of coffee and a doughnut. Five minutes
later he is back for more, Only he is very careful
to pick another lady to serve him.

The limit is one spoonful of sugar per cup, but
there’s always the patient who slips another spoon—
ful in when the ladies aren’t looking.

Arnold wants his coffee Boston style—cream in
the cup first. My wife didn’t understand what he
wanted the first time she waited on him. She
thought he ust wanted the cream before the sugar.

“You’ve never been to Boston or you would
have known,” the man declared, then added, “But
that’s all right.” ‘

Mom works hard at the Haven. It is her whole
life. Although she lives 15 miles from the hospital,
she arrives at IO every morning and doesn’t leave
until 10 that night, scarcely taking time out to eat.
Even on Saturdays, when the Haven is closed, she
often comes for a while in the afternoon.

She keeps 100 volunteer women and girls work—
ing together happily, and that’s some feat if you
can do it. She jokes and talks with the patients and
keeps things moving. Her personality is the per-
sonality of the Haven. .

The Haven is open to “parolees” from 2 to 4 I
every afternoon and 6 to 8:30 every evening, ex- .
cept Saturdays, when the Haven is closed all day. :

Wednesday nights the patients get an extra hour. '
And you would think those men were kids the '
way they enjoy every second of that extra hour.

So-called “closed wards” are brought by their
guards for an hour on special afternoons. The '
clubhouse is open to employees as well as patients, _:
'and they come often.

The name, “The Haven,” was chosen by a
patient in an all-patient contest. Pretty good name,
don’t you think?

RECREATION

 

A Recreation Board Preserves Its Identity

By WALTER H. HELLMANN
Superintendent of Recreation

Fairfield. Conn.

TTEMPTS T0 STREAMLINE municipal govern-
ment sometimes tend to imperil the exis-
tence of the recreation board as a separate

entity. Such was recently the case in Fairfield,
Connecticut.

F airfield is an old community as American
towns go. It was founded in 1639 and is now en-
tering its fourth century of existence. Up to a few
years ago it has found the typical New England
town meeting the most satisfactory means of con-
ducting its oflicial' business.

There is no denying that the town meeting form
of government is the democratic ideal and in small
communities does provide the means for every
citizen having 'a direct voice in the control of
local government. However, due to the rapid in-
dustrial growth of the area, Fairfield has reached
the point where the number of registered voters
far exceeds the capacity of the largest auditorium
in town. This makes it impossible to ascertain the
will of the people unless elaborate election machin-
ery is set up. Attendance at town meetings has
dwindled to a mere handful of the electorate so
that sixty to one hundred people pass on business
and budgets totaling- over $I, 500,000.

Recognizing the need for an improvement in the
method of conducting town business a group of

citizens headed by the F airfield League of Women-

Voters instigated the formation of a Charter Re-
vision Committee. This bi-partisan committee
made a thorough study of governmental needs of
the town and in due time presented a proposed
charter for discussion and later adoption. The aim
of the new charter was to consolidate or eliminate
some of the existing boards whose functions over-
lapped.

In spite of the fact that the Recreation Board
had conducted for a number of years what seemed
to be a progressive public relations program, the
Charter Committee recommended that it be elimi-
nated and its function taken over by the-Park
Board. The Recreation Board members, realizing
that the action of the Charter Committee was due
to a lack of knowledge of the differences in func-
tion of a recreation and a park department, drew

AUGUST 1947

up a list of very cogent reasons for presentation
at the public hearings on the proposed charter.

Reasons Presented

Each member of the Charter Committee was fur—
nished in advance with a copy of those reasons.
At the hearing the Recreation Board chairman
gave a clear and logical presentation of the need
for a separate recreation authority. The reasons
for a separate recreation board are as follows:

I. Difference in Function

'I.The function of the Park Board is to
acquire, develop and maintain park and rec—
reation areas. This in itself is a full—time
job when one considers the program the
Park Board has laid out in the develop-
ment of the Tunxis Hill Park (25 acres of
land recently acquired) and Jennings Beach
(28 acres of undeveloped shore front on
Long Island Sound). The development of
other areas as time goes on will necessitate
even greater responsibility.

2. The function’of the Recreation Board is to
develop activities and programs that make
use of all community recreation facilities.
This includes the use of school buildings,
which do not come under the jurisdiction
of the Park Board.

a. The type of service performed by the Park
Board employees differs greatly from that
performed by Recreation Board em-
ployees. Throughout the year the Rec-
reation Board employs, trains and super-
vises the work of some 35 to 40 different
employees, many of whom use highly
specialized techniques :' for example, the
work of a choral director is vastly dif-
ferent from that of a swimming instructor
or basketball referee.

II. Separate budgets are more likely to provide
greater financial latitude for each Board.
Where both functions are considered under
one budget, one or the other is likely to suffer
greater retrenchments than if separate bud-

229

gets were maintained. In other words, one de-
partment becomes the step-child.

III. A separate Recreation Board is more likely
to be able to campaign for increased park and
recreation facilities without having the onus
of self-interest attached to the acquisition of
land and properties for itself.

IV. The present setup of the Board which includes
representatives of the Park and School Boards
as well as citizens at large, was adopted after
recommendation by the National Recreation
Association, a recognized authority in the
field. The Board has fuctioned smoothly and
cooperatively at all times with the Park and
School Boards. The best proof of the feasi-
bility of the present arrangement is the result
of what has been accomplished.

In 1938 we had a budget of $2,500.00, four
playgrounds and one league in basketball and
baseball. In 1946-47 we have a budget of
$16,000.00, ten playgrounds, four recreation
centers in school buildings, junior, senior and
midget leagues in baseball and basketball, two
badminton clubs, an archery club, a fly-tying
club, after-school programs on fall and spring,
outdoor motion pictures, neighborhood Hal-
loween celebrations, a swimming and life sav—

ing program. We supervise and train the life-
guards at the four town beaches, issue base-
ball, softball and tennis permits, loan picnic
kits to community, civic, religious and social
groups, conduct tennis and badminton leagues
and tournaments and advise numerous indi-
viduals and groups on recreation and athletic
problems. We developed a community choral
and instrumental group also.

It is our firm conviction that this progress
could not have been made by a board whose
efforts were also devoted to other functions.

Reaction

Representatives of several civic groups with
whom the recreation department has worked sup-
ported the statements of the recreation chairman.
The Charter Committee was convinced when pre-
sented with the facts and it recommended that the
Recreation Board be left as it was originally con-
stituted.

This incident would seem to point out the fact
that the more varied a recreation program is, the
more difficult it would be to consolidate it under
another department and that while a public rela-
tions program does not reach all individuals of
the community, it does assure a good backlog of
support in time of need.

 

The Place of the National Recreation Association
in Recent Year-Round Developments

THE VERY LARGE SHARE which the National Recreation Association has had in the expansion of the
number of year-round programs since 1940 is indicated clearly by the following figures recording the
number of cities which have received service through visits by the Association’s field workers during

this period.

564 or more than 92 percent of the 613 cities reporting full-time leadership in the 1946 YEAR
BOOK received field service from the Association.

Of the 182 cities reporting full-time leadership in 1946 for the first time, 153 or more than 84

percent received field service.

Of the 97 cities that did not submit YEAR BOOK reports for 1940, 1942, or 1944 but reported
full-time leadership in 1946, all but 16 received field service.

During the period 1940-1946, 700 of the 775 cities reporting full-time leadership in one or more
of the four YEAR BOOKS received field service. More than 90 percent of the year-round cities were
therefore served in this way by the Association.

In addition to the above, a number of the cities which did not receive field visits were assisted by
the Association in finding leadership personnel. Few, if any, of the 775 cities were not served by the
Correspondence and Consultation Bureau between 1940 and 1946.

230 RECREATION

 

Music

in the
Library

By KATHERINE CONGER
Enoch Pratt Free Library
Baltimore. Maryland

WELVE YEARS AGO the Fine Arts De-
Tpartment of the Enoch Pratt Free

Library inaugurated a new service to
its patrons which has grown into one of
the most rewarding of its many activities.
In 1935, the Carnegie Corporation of New
York, which had already granted the library
money to finance a series of excellent book-
lists on art subjects, gave to the Fine Arts
Department the Carnegie College Music
Set, consisting of 800 phonograph records, 251
scores, and 129 books. This collection is carefully
selected to offer a basic, comprehensive course in
music history and appreciation and is intended pri-
marily for college use. The Pratt Library is proud
that it was the first, and for a time the only public
library to receive this collection.

The Carnegie gift books were added to the reg-
ular music collection, but the records and scores
were placed in a sound-proof music room, ad-
jacent to the Fine Arts office. After experimenting,
we adopted the present plan of permitting a patron
to reserve the music room for an hour at a time
and letting him select the records he wished to
hear from a catalog. Anyone may reserve the music
room, whether he is a card-holder or not, and he
may bring friends with him. Often groups Of Girl
Scouts, small classes of school children, or clubs
come in for a planned listening program. In such
cases, we extend the time to two hours on request.

In its first ten' years of service, 26,976 appoint—
ments were made and kept, and the number of
individual listeners is estimated at over 100,000.

Wartime Listeners

This opening of the music room to all comers
led to long waiting lists. During the war, many
servicemen who wanted to use the room were un-

AUGUST 1947

 

Cmartesy Baltimore Sunday Sun Magazine

able to make appointments because of the uncer-
tainty of their free hours. In 1944, luck and per-
suasion won us another line gift, which furniShed
at least a partial solution to the servicemen’s listen-
ing problem. One patron mentioned to a Fine Arts
assistant that he would like to offer the depart—
ment a gift in memory of his mother. When the
staff member told him about the need for further
listening facilities, he decided to give us a table
phonograph with two sets of earphones for use in
the reading room. This machine cannot be reserved
in advance; any adult patron may use it, although
servicemen and women have first call. This ser-
vice proved so popular that in August 1945 the
same reader gave us a second phonograph, with
three sets of earphones on the same conditions
of use.

By the end of 1946 these two machines had been
used by 9,725 eager listeners. Many were in the
armed forces or merchant marine of allied nations ;
and, of course, there were Americans from all over
the country. One merchant seaman who spent a
happy evening with the Brahms symphonies tele-
phoned from the pier as soon as his ship had
docked, and asked the quickest way to get to the
Central building. He had visited us two years

231

before and had been so impressed by our musical
facilities that he advertised the Pratt Library
around the world and made it his first stop on his
return trip.

Meanwhile, in 1940, the National Committee for
Music Appreciation, acting through its Baltimore
chapter, made a gift of $1,000 to establish a circulat—
ing record collection, later adding $600 for operating
expenses during the first year. The many problems
involved in working out routines were solved and
now patrons may go directly to the shelves and
select records for home enjoyment. In the begin-
ning demand so far exceeded supply that only one
album was allowed to a borrower. With the instal-
lation of a pay collection in 1943 the returns from
which are used for the purchase of more records,
our funds have so increased that we now permit
patrons to borrow as many albums as they like.

Although single records were lent at first, the
difficulties of handling and shelving proved so great
that now only albums may be borrowed. Important
single records are added to the non—circulating
music room collection. There is always a free copy
of each album lent for seven days, while the rental
copies have a borrowing fee of ten cents, plus a
charge of three cents a day frOm the time they are
taken out. This income, together with gifts of
albums, records and money is our only source of
" funds, as nothing is allocated from the library’s
book fund for the purchase of music records. The
music room collection at the end of 1946 contained
over 3,000 records, and there were about the same
number of records in the circulating collection.

Users of music records are about 70 percent
men, many of them of high ‘school and college age
and a large proportion are veterans. Our peak rec-
ord circulation was in November 1946 when we
lent over 5,000 records in one month. Symphonies
are in greatest demand, with vocal recordings, espe-
cially opera and folk songs, running a close second.

Other Records

In response to demand, we are now buying a
limited number of music albums “for children.
These have been carefully selected by the Director
of Work with Children. When the children’s room
is able to set up its own collection of records,
these will be transferred, but meanwhile they are
available to parents.

The Pratt Library’s policy is to keep all material
on a given subject in the subject department, no
matter what the form of such material may be. In
1937 the Literature and Language Department

inaugurated what was probably the first or at least
one of the first free circulating collections of poetry,
drama and language records in the country. This
collection now numbers about 600 records. French,
German and Spanish are the language courses
most in demand—always with a long waiting list—
but others in Portuguese, Italian, Russian, Chinese
and Latin and English are also popular. Among
the drama records, Shakespeare is most consist-
ently in demand. Recently a number of dramatized
narratives from classic novels have been added.
Poetry, read by the author or professional readers,
forms a large part of this collection and is very pop-
ular with teachers, poets and readers in general.

The History Department has just begun to
acquire documentary records, such as speeches of
statesmen or hiStoric radio broadcasts. Each of
these departments has a table machine with ear-
phones, gifts of patrons inspired by the memorial
phonographs in the Fine Arts Department.

These earphone models were especially designed
and built by a local firm. In addition to these, the
Fine Arts Department has acquired a stock-type
portable phonograph with built-in Speaker used
for record concerts or in connection with music
talks. During one winter season we experimented
successfully in playing two half-hours of music
each week, one from 5 :30 to 6:00 P.M., the other
from 12:30” to 1:00 P. M. This was reluctantly
-given up because of lack of sufficient‘staf'f. '

However, similar concerts have been arranged
in branch libraries, generally planned on some one
subject such as opera, symphonic music, Negro
spirituals or folk music, and have‘ been combined
with displays of books, pictures, posters and maps.
Since November 1946 twelve of the 26 branch
libraries have used the phonograph at least once.
One branch, the first to start a regular bi-monthly
program has held 11 Monday evening concerts.
Besides these 12, two branch libraries have their
own phonographs. One, an earphone machine (an—
other memorial gift), is used continuously, espe-
cially by young people; the other machine belongs
to the branch librarian and is used in giving a
weekly concert for young people.

All of these programs are played in the reading
rooms, and are completely informal. The business
of the library goes 011 as. usual and people sit and
listen as long as they wish.

Our twelve years of experience have pointed out
to us that the possibilities of expansion are almost
unlimited, with adequate staff and funds the only
stumbling block. We have found the public to be
music-hungry!

“When You and I Were Young, Maggie"

OMPLETE WITH impressive handlebar mus-
C taches, saucy black bow-ties perched on

boiled shirts, checked blazers, caps set at
rakish angles, striped sweaters, Howing knickers
and striped knee-length hose, live foursomes vied
for the honor of the best barber shop quartet in the
city-wide American ballad contest in New York
City in June.

This thirteenth annual contest was held, as have
most of the preceding ones, on the Mall in Central
Park amid stage props reminiscent of a tonsorial
establishment of bygone days. The quartets were
finalists from the preliminary contests conducted
in each of the live New York boroughs by the
Department of Parks.

Quartet singing of such popular barber shop
ballads as “Dear Old Girl,” “Mandy Lee” and
many other songs made famous by the harmoniz-
ing habitues of the old tonsorial parlors in the
nineties, was revived in 1935 when the New York
Park Department, of which John J. Downing is
Director of Recreation, included a contest for bar-
ber shop quartets in its program of recreation
activities. Twenty foursomes entered the competi-
tion that year and interest in this type of vocal
activity has increased
steadily since then. The
first national champion-
ship was held at the New
York VVorld’s Fair in
1940 under the auspices
of a nation-wide or-
ganization called “The
Society for the Preser-
vation and Encourage-
ment of Barber Shop
Quartet Singing in
America,” more famil-
iarly known by its pro-
nunciation-defying ini-
tials as SPEBSQSA!

Winners of the 1947
ballad contest were the
“Brooklyn Dodgers
Knothole Four,” re-
slilendent in the color-
ful baseball regalia of
yesteryear. Their mel—
low renditions of “Coney

AUGUST 1947

 

Island Babe” and a medley of tunes which in-
cluded “I Had a Dream” must have turned the
memories of some of the 15,000 listeners on the
Mall back to the days of vaudeville, of Weber and
Fields, the Cohan family, a singing waiter named
Izzy Baline who climbed the Tin Pan Alley road
to fame as Irving Berlin, of Anna Held and Lily
Langtry, of Pat Rooney dancing his famous jig
and Lillian Russell singing, “Kiss Me Mother,
Ere I Die.” '

The printed program for the occasion was red,
white and blue, adorned with an array of barber
poles which served as pedestals for the busts of
four mustachioed tunesters.

Featured on the 1947 program were guest quar—
tets and selections by the Police Department Band.
Not to be outdone by the artists on the stage in the
bandshell, the audience tenors, baritones, sopranos
and others demonstrated their abilities in a com-
munity singing session of “Sidewalks of New
York,” “Sweet Adeline” and other melodious old-
timers.

As colorful almost as the songs they sing and
the outfits they diSplay have been the names of
some of the competing foursomes through the
years: the Fireside
Troubadours, the Four.
Little Pork Chops, Lit-
tle Shavers, the Four
Mullalys, Hawley’s Ton-
sorial Twitterbugs, the
Harmonyms, the Gas
House Boys, the Blue
Streak Quartet, the
F latbush Hoboes and
the Troublesome Four-
some.

Rules

Only amateur quartets
are permitted to com-
pete in the American
Ballad Contest, and the
music must be of the
American ballad or bar-
ber shop variety. In-
cluded each year with
the entry blank is a list
of suggested songs such

233

as the tear-jerking “She Is More to Be Pitied
than Censured” and the rhythmic “Red Wing.”

Each quartet may sing two numbers or two
medleys or a combination of one number and one
medley. No quartet is allowed to sing more than
six minutes and instrumental accompaniment is
permitted for the starting chord only. At the final
competition, the foursomes are required to be in
costume appropriate to the “Gay Nineties.”

Scoring is on the basis of: tone, rhythm, musi—
cal technique, harmony and originality, 60 per—
cent; interpretation, expression, phrasing, 30 per—
cent; stage presentation, costume, stage presence,
10 percent. '

Elsewhere

New York City claims no monopoly on barber
shop harmonizations, for there are chapters of
SPEBSQSA in cities throughout the country. In
addition, recreation departments in some localities
report barber shop singing as one of their activi-
ties. The Recreation Department of the Chicago
Park District organized barber shop quartets last
February and the Columbia, South Carolina, Rec-
reation Department reveals that barber shop sing—
ing is popular with the Teen-Age Glee Club. In
July 1947, SPEBSQSA Chapter No. I in Detroit,

Michigan, sponsored its second annual Barber—i

shoppers’ Show Boat Cruise, a moonlight boat
ride on Lake Saint Clair which featured commu—
nity singing and dancing in addition to quartet
harmonizing. A notation at the bottom of the flyer
circulated to publicize the affair stated: “Sure!
. . . Bring her along. . . . She’ll have a swell time,
too.”

Few cities, however, can rival the grandiose
display of melody and atmosphere that issues forth
from the Central Park Mall each spring as the

Park Department goes all out for its ballad con—
test.

Howard Braucher Honored

CITATION AND MEDALLION were presented to
Howard Braucher, President of the National
Recreation Association, by the National 4-H Club
Camp in Washington, D. C., on June 18, 1947.
The citation read as follows:

“A citation to Howard Braucher, author, co-
operator, administrator. Community leader.
Author of many publications relating to rec—
reational activities for youth. Cooperated
with the Extension Service in providing rec-
reational training for 4—H Club leaders.

President of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation.”

Fun with a Microscope

By JOSEPH D. OWENS
Direc’rorI Granville R. Lee Recreation Cen’rer
PortlandI Maine

I

OBBIES are a “dime a dozen” these days, but
H the writer was confronted with a new one
recently at the Granville R. Lee Recreation Center. .
The Centertwhich is‘ Portland’s first indoor recre-
ation building, is devoted to the promotion of
family and adult recreation and education, and has
been in operation just one year.

Meeting at the Lee Center once a month is a
group of 15 adults.who are members of the Met-
calf Chapter of the Maine Society of Amateur
Microscopists. The club is named after the late
Rev. Joel H. Metcalf, a widely known Portland
microscopist. Included in the group are people
from all walks of life. There is atcandy—maker, an
attorney, a cabinet maker, a retired postal clerk;
a machinist,.a machine operator, an a'ccountant, and
there are several housewives and school teachers.

The organization has been meeting since 1945
in the homes of various members, but with the
opening of the Lee Center the group found an ideal
place where they could open their meetings to the
public, and use the building facilities for the social
part of their program after their regular business
meetings and demonstration or lecture. The cen—
ter’s ping-pong tables proved to be excellent labor-
atory tables, providing plenty of space for all the
microscopes and room enough for the hobbyists to
prepare slides and other pieces of accoutrement
necessary to the work.

The group has obtained and keeps up—to-date a
fine library with the latest dope on microscopy.
Each member of the club has his microscope, an
American-made laboratory model, equipped with
three objective lenses and ranging from 9 to 2,075
power.

During the spring and summer months, field
trips are made to lakes and ponds to gather Speci-
mens for laboratory work.

Each. club member is assigned one meeting a
year at which he or she is in charge of the pro-
gram or demonstration to be given. Topics range
from “Slides to be Made From the Antennae of
Various Insects” to lectures on entomology, min—
erology, and blood analysis.

President of the club,_ Herbert M. W. Haven,
says the group has “attained interest and inspira-
tion by the use of the microscope for recreation.”

hf‘lhhh I m‘rmx‘r

 

EVER BEFORE in the history of the public rec-
N reation movement have the developments
been more encouraging than they-are today
on the eve of the Twenty-Ninth National Recrea-
tion Congress. Just a quick glance at the summary
of community recreation as presented in the 1946
RECREATION YEAR BOOK will prove the authen-
ticity of this heartening statement.

Once again, this time from October 13-17 at the
Hotel New Yorker in New York City, the Recre-
ation Congress will perform its historic function.
Recreation leaders, professional and volunteer,
representing many agencies, from many localities,
will come together to exchange information and
experience and- prepare themselves for further
advances. For live days in group meetings, large
and small, in demonstrations, in conferences, in
workshops and in other ways, leaders will have
an opportunity to give and receive ideas. Discus-
sion of practical problems being faced in local com-
munities will be emphasized in group meetings and
general sessions will feature nationally known
speakers.

The topics for group discussion include: plan-
ning school buildings for community recreation,
church recreation, personnel problems and stand-
ards, recreation in real estate developments, recre-
ation on the college campus, state government
agencies serving recreation, problems of recreation
agencies in cities of 10,000 and under, problems of
recreation agencies in cities of 500,000 and over,
recreation in rural areas and small communities,
charges and fees for recreation, teen—age centers,
recreation for older people, programs for little
children, an adequate recreation program for girls,
special recreation programs for women, planning
and development of recreation areas.

Other topics for group discussion are: recrea-

AUGUST 1947

tion equipment problems, graduate and under—
graduate training for recreation personnel, in-ser-
vice training for recreation personnel, hospital rec-
reation—veterans and civilians, volunteers in pub—
lic recreation service, recreation that can be shared
by the family, motion pictures in recreation, public
relations for the recreation program, functions of
a recreation department, maintenance of recreation
areas, problems of local recreation board members,
clubs in the recreation program, drama in the rec—
reation program, nature in the recreation program,
arts and crafts in the recreation program.

There will be a special two-day conference for
discussion of recreation problems in industry—
Monday and Tuesday, October 13 and 14. Al-
though the topics dealing specifically with indus-
trial recreation will be concentrated in these two
days, those attending these sessions will find much
that will be helpful in the remaining days.

The American Recreation Society, professional
organization of recreation workers, will meet on
Monday, October I 3, and hold its annual business
meeting on Thursday, October 16.

The alumni of the National Recreation School
will also hold their annual meeting at the Congress.

Three afternoons—Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday—are left free for special features of inter-
est to delegates.

All meetings, exhibits and services at the Con-
gress will center at the Hotel New Yorker, sit-
uated at Eighth Avenue and 34th Street. Ample
rooming accommodations at minimum rates are as—
sured for all Congress delegates if reservations are
made in advance directly to the hotel.

Registration

Delegates are requested to notify the Congress
committee in advance where possible and to regis—
ter immediately upon arrival. Upon payment of the
registration fee of $3.00 the official badge, pro-
gram and other information about special events
will be given.

A Consultation Workshop will be set up at the
Congress designed to serve the needs of individual
delegates. If you have problems or special ques—
tions bring them to the Recreation Congress. Every
effort will be made to help you; interviews will be
aranged with persons who may help; program
specialists will be available for conference; and a
comprehensive collection of recreation material in
classified scrapbooks will be available. for your
examination.

Further information may be secured from the
Recreation Congress Committee, National Recre-

ation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.

235

Roadside Development in Texas

By JAC L. GUBBELs

Texas Highway Department
Austin, Texas

0 THE CITIZENS’ groups formed in Texas some

fourteen years ago belongs a lion’s share of the

credit for the public interest and enthusiasm
that has been generated for the advancement of
more attractive and enjoyable roadsides. The effect
of their work does not end at the right-of-way line,
nor does it end with the area that can be seen
from the highway. It is “reflected in the homes and
yards far removed from major highways and
streets.

It is through the cooperation of these groups
that the Texas Highway Department secured, free
of charge, the necessary land on which it has built
to date a total of 516 roadside parks. Here motor-

ists may interrupt a tiresome drive by resting in.

the shade of a big tree. They may eat a water-
melon or picnic lunch—perhaps even build a fire
and broil a steak. Some of the parks overlook
scenic attractions such -as mountains, beautiful
rivers or broad valleys. In most instances, they pro-
vide the best vantage points for viewing the land-

scape.

In 1933 the State Highway Commission ap-
pointed a State Chairman to organize a citizens’
group for advancement of roadside improvement
over the state. The State Chairman first appointed
25 district chairmen, located in the same vicinity
where the State Highway Department had district
headquarters. Each district chairman then selected

.a chairman for each county in the district, and by

1935 the entire state of 254 counties was well-
organized.

Projects

The projects' undertaken by this organization,
under the sponsorship of the Highway Depart-
ment, included wild flower shows to be held in
practically every community of over 5,000 popula-
tion, and often in smaller communities. The pur-
pose was two-fold: to give the citizens in the state
a greater appreciation of the native flora, and,
second, it was argued that when the personnel of
the Highway Department picked the wild flowers
on the roadsides, brought them into the community

 

Courtem Texas Hiahwav Debartment

 

hall, and helped wth the arrangement, it would
help greatly to overcome the existing prejudice
that the handling of flowers was a “woman’s job.”

The plan succeeded wonderfully. No lectures
were given, only the realistic handling did the job,
and from there on, highway maintenance crews saw
to it that flowers on the right—of—way were never
mowed before going to seed. Citizens became ob-
servant of the wild flower law Whereby no person
over seventeen years of age can pick wild flowers

in the state of. Texas wthout a permit from the.

property owner or custodian, and the movement
to conserve natural beauty gained momentum.

The next project of the citizens’ group was to
secure roadside park sites free of charge from
property owners at places selected by the personnel
of the Landscape Department. Seven hundred of
these sites were donated.

Another important activity of the citizens’ group
was to award prizes in each county for the most
orderly maintained filling station, restaurant and
private home. Impartial local citizens were ap-
pointed as judges. The project made the people in
this state conscious of trash, oil cans and old tires
lying around, conscious of unkept buildings and
grounds. This program was particularly far—reach-
ing because, in general, an improvement of all
establishments along the roadside took place.

Council Appointed

Immediately after the war the Highway Com-
mission appointed a nine-member council for road—
side development. The council was to select its
own chairman and the 25 district engineers each
appointed his own district chairman and county
chairmen in the formulation of the citizens’ or—
ganization. A pamphlet of procedure for this organ—
ization was issued and put into effect.

The Roadside Council’s duty is to promote legis-
lative matters pertaining to dumping grounds,
junkyard control, minimizing of outdoor advertis-
ing billboards, the removal of snipe signs, the col—
lection of historical data and points of interest in
the state, and to carry out the policy established on
designations and dedications of memorial high—
ways. The council serves overlapping terms, its
members being appointed for terms of two, four
and six years. As these terms expire and new
appointments are made, all terms will be for six
years.

The Council also adopted the plan of a living
memorial to the men and women who served this
nation during the war. It was a plan that had been
conceived originally by the old citizens’ organiza-

. AUGUST 1947

tion from which was developed the Citizens’ Road-
side Council.’ The living memorial is developed
through the selection of a flowering tree or shrub
for each county, promoting the idea that one or
more of the species be planted in each individual
yard in cities, villages, hamlets and individual
rural homes, to ultimately attain the end that a
certain region will be widely known for Oleander,
or roses, or crepe myrtle, or redbud, or dogwood,
or other shrubs.

This work is now conducted by the Citizens’
organization and the plan for execution is well
under way. Thus many thousands of wistaria, ole—
ander, bougainvillea, pyracantha and other varie-
ties have been planted. In many instances where
citizens were unable to purchase these plants, citi-
zens’ groups have bought carload lots for free dis-
tribution to these people who sign an agreement
that they will maintain and help grow the planted
shrub or tree. It is clearly the people’s program—-
in which everybody is to participate. The results
are very gratifying, eSpecially in the smaller cities.

The roadsides over this state suffered consid-
erably from neglect due to war-time activities and
the necessity of concentrating the reduced main—
tenance almost exclusively to that part of the road
actually under the rubber. The maintenance of
wayside parks was often neglected during this
period. At present, however, there is a renewed
effort to restore them to prewar appearance, and
the desire among the personnel of the Highway
Department is to go far beyond that which was
accomplished before the war.

The Citizens’ Roadside Council will continue its
primary objective of promoting a greater public
appreciation of beauty and recreational facilities
along the roadsides. It is an endeavor for which'it
is more properly fitted than the agency charged
with building and maintaining the highways. Work-
ing with the Council, the Texas Highway Depart-
ment will strive in the future to make the high—
way system more adequate for the essential travel
needs of motorists in Texas, and at the same time
provide the added service of convenient relief and
diversion from the monotony of driving over the
vast expanse of the Lone Star State]

Drive Safely

The Coronado, California, Recreation News
quotes the Chief of Police, June W. Jordan, as
saying “Children should be seen, not hurt.”

[Q
in
\J

t

Caution:
Bicycles
Ahead

By WALTER H.

ZIMMERMAN
Billings. Montana

ARLY one August

morning, Montana

motorists were star-i
tled by the sudden ap-
pearance of row upon row
of teen-age bicycle riders.
This strange caravan was
the first in a series of
'cross-country bicycle
trips which the Depart-
ment of Public Recrea—
tion of Billings, Montana,
inaugurated for the youth
of that city. With the help
of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, who spon-
sored the trip, the recreation department plans to
make the event an annual affair. The enormous
amount of interest already shown in the trip makes
it almost certain that the number of Billings .bi-
cycle enthusiasts will grow by leaps and bounds.

Since Montana’s terrain consists largely of
mountains and rolling hills, the length of the trip
was necessarily reduced. Therefore, the destina-
tion for the first trip was Big Timber, Montana, a
fair-sized town about 82 miles from Billings.

Fifty-four excited boys, ranging in age from 9
to I4, left Billings at 5 A.M. one Saturday morning
and arrived at Big Timber at 3 that afternoon.

By prearrangement, all meals in Big Timber,
with the exception of the Sunday barbecue, were
served to the boys by a local restaurant, the cost
being defrayed by the Billings Junior Chamber of
Commerce. '

Although the sights of a strange city caused the
[boys to be more than a little noisy, the Big Timber
residents unanimously pronounced them well-
hehaved guests.

.238

 

Courtesy Milwaukee Municipal Recreation Department

Events

Saturday evening the entire group attended the
local theater and Sunday morning after church the
boys enthusiastically participated. in the Pioneer
Day Parade, in which they gave a demonstration
of half-circle riding. Following the parade, they
had dinner at a huge open-pit barbecue. It was the I
opinion of the boys that the open-pit barbecue is
one place where plenty to eat is assured! At an
old-fashioned western rodeo in the afternoon there
was a special calf-roping event in which only the
boys from Billings participated. It was early to bed
Sunday night in order to be ready to depart at
4 A.M. Monday.

Preparation

Much more'effort and preparation had gone into I
that trip than is at first apparent. Several months
before the slated date, all interested cyclists were
given copies of the bicycle safety rules—t0 be :
studied. Several meetings were held at which the
rules were reviewed by both the chairman of the
bicycle trip and the local police. The boys were

RECREATION

then required to qualify for the trip by passing a
standard cycling test. This test is one of the most

valuable features of the trip, for it familiarizes the.

boys with community rules of safety as well as
national regulations.

After the boys had successfully passed their
cycling tests, they had to take their bicycles to a
local shop for a thorough inspection—made free of
charge by the local bicycle shOps as part of their

contribution to the trip.

Meanwhile, the recreation department officials
Iliad contacted the State Highway Patrol and the
police departments of various cities through which
the caravan would pass, thus securing their ap-
proval and cooperation for the trip. It was also
necessary to secure three large trucks. These trucks
acted as Windshields for the riders and, at the
same time, each had a specific use: one was des—
ignated as a repair truck, another as a supply
truck, and the third was to carry spare riders.
(There was a spare rider for every five bicycles.)

The State Highway Patrol acted as a pace-setter

Seamen Are People

By GWYN CAMPBELL
Program Director
United Seamen's Institute Unit
Galveston, Texas

E HAVE BEEN accustomed to regard a seaman
W not as a member of an industry only, but

as one of a generic group having certain
definite characteristics. Popularly, a sailor is be—
lieved to be unstable, intemperate, dependent. A
seaman’s home is thought to be the corner saloon,
his recreation a period of wild excess between
trips, his religion a jumble of superstitions. We are
inclined to picture him as a much tattoed, violent
person given to unreasoning acts of generosity. It
is an interesting romantic concept but only as true
of the mariner as it is of any other workers.

There are reasons why this concept should have
developed. Until comparatively recently this was a
badly paid job. Consequently it was a refuge for
the incompetent, the fugitive, the man who failed

AUGUST 1947

for the trip, traveling at approximately 12 miles
per hour. When the caravan was correctly formed,
it was in the following order : (I) a State Highway
Patrol car, which slowed all oncoming traffic; (2) a
truck carrying the spare riders ; (3) bicycle riders ;
(4) a truck carrying supplies; (5) bicycle riders;
(6) a truck carrying the repair unit; (7) a State
Highway Patrol car, which Hagged all traffic going
in our direction; and (8) at a considerable distance
to the rear, a pleasure car carrying a huge placard
which read, “Caution, Bicycle Riders Ahead.”
This formation was so designed to eliminate any
danger to the cyclists from regular highway trafhc.

The repair truck was equipped, by a local bicycle
shop, which also furnished a mechanic who took
charge of the repair unit, in the interests of the
promotion of cycling in the city of Billings. The
supply truck carried the boys’ personal property
as well as all the food necessary for the meals en
route. '

This bicycle trip proved a very successful ven-
ture for both the boys and the sponsors of the trip.

to adjust to normal society. Now it is relatively
well-paid, disciplined employment, attracting stable

” ambitious men, many of whom intend to make it

their career. To many of us who have not previ-
ously worked with this group, it has been hard to
discard old prejudices. Even after months or years
we will say that a certain action is typical of a sea-
man when we really mean that it is in keeping with
our earlier misconception.

Problems

Initiation in the field required definite adjust-
ments—adjustments, in my case, far from com-
plete. First, I had to realize that seamen are made
up of a normal cross—section of American manhood.
Second, that no matter how enthusiastic the accep—
tance of a program by younger seamen, unless the
older men took part, the job was only half done.
Third, the program had to be flexible due to the
rapid changes in membership, and fourth—the
common denominator in all fields of recreation—
our funds were necessarily restricted.

The majority of seamen are young—over 70 per
cent are under 30—proud of their homes, ambi-
tious. That the seamen is fond of his home, in
many cases frankly homesick, is shown by the
eagerness with which he shows pictures of family
and home. He wants to be accepted byithe com-

239

munity and is sensitive to community attitudes. He
doesn’t like the waterfront saloon, but is attracted
to the friendly welcome if no other place is avail-
able.

Like most war-born agencies, the United Sea-
men’s Service suffered at the beginning by the lack
of materials and adequate personnel. Program
could not be tested. It gradually developed in re—
sponse to demand. We had to draw on experience
in other fields, often fields with little similiarity to
this setting. The idea of a recreation program was
relatively new to seamen. They did not know what
to expect from USS nor did they understand that
changes in program could only come in response to
their suggestions.

In spite of all handicaps the recreation offered
was well-supported and the basic plan is still fol-
lowed. The differences, however, between war-
time and postwar operations are many. There is
an increasing understanding between seamen and
USS personnel. There is a sharp reduction in
available funds. There is decreased community in-
terest. Above and beyond everything else, there is
a process of democratization that is making our
program more healthy, more useful, than it has
ever been.

Peacetime Picture

The best example of this is the weekly hOuse
meeting held on Sunday afternoons. During the
war period our house meeting attracted 14 or 15
seamen. Now we have an average of 60 attending,
and on occasion have had over 100.

These men are not by any means all residents
in the club. They come from ships, from rooming
houses, from all parts of the town. There is no dif-
ficulty keeping order, although the elected chair-
man is besieged by requests from the floor. All
have ideas and every idea is carefully analyzed
before acceptance or dismissal.

A year ago it was suggested that we do away
with our weekly orchestra dance because of ex-
pense. The reaction then was “Why can’t you
afford it?” Recently this question was again raised
and the immediate response was “How can we
afford it?” One proposal was a canteen in the ball-
room with considerably higher prices than the
permanent canteen. Soft drinks were sold for 10
cents in the ballroom while the seamen could buy
them for only 5 cents a few yards away. Yet the
temporary canteen took nearly all business away
from the other. Men who had never attended
dances went there to help increase sales. As a
result, we have been able to continue this part of
our activity.

240

During the summer, lack of air conditioning
made inside activities impractical. Following house

'meeting proposals, we obtained the cooperation of

the City Recreation Department and had a lighted
ball diamond allotted to us several nights a week.

Often 80 men would play at some time during the
night with as many spectators.

We gloomily expected that the endiof the war
would bring a sharp decline in the number of
hostesses. This would not, as in some clubs, simply
mean fewer dance partners. Our volunteers helped
formulate and develop our program, enlisted com-
munity support and resources, and took part in all
phases of activity. Though we did have a tem-
porary falling off, interest revived. Volunteers
publish our monthly magazine doing all the typ‘
ing, mimeographing, distributing and much of the
writing. They arrange and serve during coffee

hours. They welcome strangers and draw them
into activities.

The seaman knows that we are going through a
transitional stage. He wants to be recognized, to
have his club recognized by the townspeople. He
will not be here long, but he will be followed by
another seaman with like aspirations. He con-
tributes to the commercial and social life of the
community and demands the benefits due any other
citizenf Though our port is active, there is again a
good deal of unemployment in the maritime indus-
try. The seaman does not want to set fees exclud-
ing the man down on his luck. He wants voluntary
support, giving according to ability, receiving ac-
cording to need.

It was a good club, the old war-time club. Lots
of entertainment, plenty of money, everyone in the
town interested and helping. It was a good club,
but it is gone. “Our” club is not gone. It has no
horizons, no set temporal limitations. “Our” club
is going on.

WHEN THE WEEK OF OCTOBER I 3~17 rolls
around, surely you will not be among
the missing at the National Recreation Con-
gress! Whether you’re a professional worker,
or a volunteer layman, there are topics and
features of interest to you.

Without delay, send in your hotel reserva-
tion to the Hotel New Yorker and write to
the -Congress Committee for further infor-
mation on program outlines and topics. Ad-
dresses will be found on page 235 of this
magazine.

 

RECREATIO

 

Arts and Crafts for All

By ANNA PRESTON SHAFFNER
Winston-Salem. North Carolina

0 THE AVERAGE PERSON arts and crafts for busy

pe0ple with jobs and families, with assorted

public and private responsibilities, seem at
first glance superfluous.

Thoughtful consideration, however, proves the
absurdity of this premise. Should the satisfaction
of self-expression and constructive use of leisure
time, the discovery of new aptitudes, the relaxation
and inspiration of this work be limited? Include
not only the young and the old, the indigent and
the infirm, but don’t exclude anybody!

Our program in arts and crafts not only helps
patients at the nearby T.B. sanatorium, but it also
reaches teachers, lawyers, saleswomen, nurses,
doctors, housewives, architects, machinists, farm-
ers, bankers, welfare workers, employees of local
industries, newspaper men and women and the
strangers within our gates.

Special classes have been scheduled for recrea-
tion leaders, Girl Scout leaders, camp counselors,
church, school, college and  and Y.W.C.A.
groups, both white and Negro. All sections of the
city are represented in these classes .and increasing
numbers of residents of the county and surround-
ing towns continue to drop in and come back.

The program is demonstrating a community
need—and meeting it.

Beginnings

Our arts and crafts workshop is a year and a
half old. It was started under the sponsorship of
the Junior League as a three-year demonstration
of the value of this type of work to a city and its
environs. The project is under the aegis of the
City Recreation Department which furnishes equip-
ment, supplies and practical advice. This setup
provides an opportunity to serve the city through
channels and contacts already established.

Our present workshop is located in three large
rooms of an old school building now being used
for City Recreation Department office space. Work
began on October I, 1945.

In the early fall of that year we secured the ser-
vices of a director, and after careful consideration
of program possibilities it was decided that the

AUGUST 1947

most effective way to start would be in the train—
ing of leaders who would carry the work back to
their organizations and in the intensive training of
a group of volunteers to act as workshop aides.
Our director met with school principals, teachers,
executives of Y.M., Y.W., Salvation Army, Girl
Scouts, 4-H clubs, juvenile court and churches,
both white and colored. She visited all the recrea-
tion centers, served as judge of arts and crafts
exhibits at both the white and Negro fairs, and
gave talks to civic clubs, colleges and parent-
teacher meetings. Response was gratifying. Wide
publicity was given to her plans and interest was
far beyond that anticipated.

By November, eight classes were imeeting
weekly and the workshop was beginning to.func-
tion as a center where individuals came for help
on such subjects as where to get materials, how to
letter, how to plan programs for school groups,
clubs and troops or how to choose color schemes
for the home. '

A meeting of those interested in art was called
and an art guild was formed for the purpose of
providing opportunity for creative work, holding
exhibits, study groups and so on. .

The first exhibit held by the guild was well at—
tended. Twenty-nine paintings by local artists were
hung in one room and 29 photographs by local
photographers were shOwn in the other. An exhibit
of ‘wood engravings followed. For this occasion an
outline of print making with a story of the artist’s
work and background was prepared and sent to
schools and recreation centers to create interest
and encourage the children to see and study the
prints. Since that time there has been a different
exhibit each month.

Growth

During October, the opening month, attendance
at the workshop was 199. In November this figure
rose to 906 and at the end of a year and a half the
cumulative attendance was 9,517!

In addition to holding regularly scheduled
classes, meetings, story hours and lectures, the
director and her volunteer assistants have found

241

 

time to help with the Christmas toy shop, an an-
nual project for reconditioning old toys, and to
give special assistance to the Y .W., Salvation
Army, and schools in preparing for group pro-
grams, and to hold a class in the technique of
makeup for the little theater group. f

In Spite of the Christmas rush and icy Decem-
ber streets that snarled traffic, these pioneer spirits
did not flag. The workshop stayed open and work
went on. The reports make good reading, too:

“The highlight of the program for December
was the visit of an eminent Viennese designer who
has lectured and taught in schools and universities
in the United States for the past twelve years.
During her stay she conducted one class a day in
stencil printing for three different groups, and

three special sessions, one each day, in silk screen‘

printing for one group.

“Our regular classes were discontinued until
after the first of the year. The workshop was kept
open for those who wished to work on special
projects or Christmas gifts. A printing table was
prepared and some interesting work was done as
a follow-up of the designer’s instruction. One farm
wife made a number of kitchen sets, apron, pot-
holder, and tea towels, using material from grain
sacks. Her designs were exceptionally good and
while she was working a number of people asked
her to take orders. Two teachers made material
for summer dresses.

“Three men took advantage of the instruction
for use in their work: a printer, a commercial
artist and a man from a local knitting mill. A
member of the recreation staff showed unusual

242

ability in the work. She plans the
organization of a print club.

“Taking advantage of the work-
shop’s open house program, there
were three or four people working
all the time. It was sometimes dif-
ficult to persuade them to stop for
meals and closing.”

This' was our first Christmas.

Since then classes have been added
on request and filled almost im-
mediately. Attendance not only
holds up; it grows. Many classes
have had to be split into two or
three groups for more effective in-
struction.

Halfway Mark

At this halfway mark in the
demonstration, the program has
broadened to such an extent that there is at least one
class included to interest every age, sex and color.
A partial list of activities is convincing proof of
this broad statement. Regularly scheduled classes
include: bookbinding, textile printing, pottery,
silk screen printing, water color, clay modeling,
metal work, flower arrangement, drawing and
painting, woodworking, art appreciation, airplane
modeling, design, figure painting, stencil and block
printing, sketching, storytelling, weaving, needle-
work, leather work, modern and ballroom dancing,
dramatics, photography and marionette making.
These groups are taught by local talent, in most
cases with no money involved except for the small
fee covering the cost of materials used. A costume
room and scenery dock have recently been added.
“Imported” artists are secured whenever possible
to enrich the program still further.

That covers most of the list to date, although a
new class may even be meeting this afternoon_a
class so new that it has not yet been scheduled! If
ten people express a desire to form a group which
has as yet no place on the program, an instructor
is secured, the class meets, work begins.

Unlike the old jigsaw toy and braided belt
school of crafts, none of these activities reaches a
dead end or suffers from monotony. Bookbinders -
progress from the making of the first treasured
book to the rebinding of interesting old volumes
in leather or the reclamation of children’s books
which may be backed with bright scraps from the
rag bag. Stenciling is limited only by the number
of things imagination can dream up to decorate.
Furniture making, even amateur variety, can do
wonders for playrooms and nurseries and living

RECREATION

 

porches. Weaving, pottery, block printing, sketch-

ing, the making of marionettes have no set horizons.

l'

The workroom is open all day every day for in-
dividual workers as well as for scheduled classes.
After acquiring a little skill, our new craftsmen
can work independently as often and as long as
they please. Some come every day. We may even

' make a cup of tea on the little workshop stove and

round off a day’s work by talking shop with fellow
enthusiasts. There are night sessions for those who
have no leisure in the daytime and a children’s
class on Friday afternoons after school. In sum-

mer the work is carried to the playgrounds and a

special artist is employed to make sketching as
popular as baseball. This sounds incredible, but
more remarkable things happen every day as this
experiment progresses!

Our program is tied tight to this community,
but it is flexible enough to grow with the city,
even to help it grow. Improvements are being
added to activities already established to make

2‘

them more interesting. New skills are being dis—
covered and put to use for our own and our neigh-
bor’s profit. A new attitude toward “the arts” has
come to be an integral part of our thinking. We
have learned that however awe-inspiring and in—
tricate arts and crafts (in general) may sound, an
art or. a craft learned step by step and with proper
instruction and encouragement can be a personal
satisfaction, an easy accomplishment, and a last-
ing pleasure, not for the chosen few “with talent”
but for the great masses of the unchosen and un-
inspired as well. It is a revelation, a thought to be
cherished and pondered.

Our aim is to build this program into community
life so thoroughly that each citizen will find its use
an opportunity to be his own master at least in his
leisure time; that he who has one talent will no
longer bury it either self-consciously or uncon-
sciously, but will find it and make it grow.

The end of the trail is a long way off, but we

feel that we are moving, faster than we dared hope
and in the right direction.

 

Bert Swenson

ERT SWENSON, after 29 years of directing rec-
B reation in Stockton, California, has turned
the leadership over to John Lilly, who now be-
comes City Recreation Director, while Mr. Swen-
son assumes the role of Assistant Superintendent.
“The increased recreation responsibilities in Stock-
ton,” declared Mr. Swenson, “should be in the
hands of a younger man,” and suiting his actions
to his words exchanged jobs with his youthful aide.

It was in 1918 that Bert Swenson went to Stock-
ton as head of the Playground Commission, to find
a growing community without any public recrea—
tion department and few recreation facilities. But
thanks to his vision and determination the city
became steadily more recreation-conscious, until
today it boasts many parks, swimming and wading

pools, tennis courts, baseball diamonds and a mu-
nicipal camp on a lake which serves from 800 to
1,000 persons every summer.

The genial, big (6’4", 225 pound) recreation
leader brought with him to Stockton a notable
athletic record in college football, baseball, basket—
ball and track, but neither this nor his flair for
telling Swedish stories impresses and delights the
Stockton youngsters as much as his annual exhibi-
tion at the municipal camp, which consists of push-
ing his generous frame through a 10” x 14”
aperture.

Bert Swenson’s successor, John Lilly, is a gradu-
ate of the University of California and directed
physical training at several Army posts before
taking up recreation leadership in Stockton.

 

American Way of Life

UST NOW the American way of life is being very
much emphasized in various statements. Re-
cently the Better Citizens Conference urged the
development of a manual which should be devoted
to a simple but accurate defense of the American
way of life as an adventure in democracy. It was
suggested that there be a clear exposition of the
Bill of Rights.
No statement about the American way of life
would be complete without something about the
development of community recreation centers to

AUGUST 1947

make life more attractive in all our areas.

From the earliest days there has been emphasis
in America on freedom for the individual to do the
things he most wants to do in his free time.

During. the last forty years there has been a very
special emphasis in the United States on the com-
munity developments in recreation, on providing
opportunities for all of the people to find enduring
satisfactions in their daily lives, in accordance with
their own ideas, in so far as this does not involve
interference with the lives of others.

243

 

Swinging on Down

By BERTHA HOLCK
Ausfin. Texas

0R MANY YEARS the Recreation Department of
Austin, Texas, has included a series of square
dance lessons in the yearly program of its
Athletic Club, but it was not until 1944 that these
many citizens who had mastered square dancing
had a place to get together and have an old—fash-
ioned family square dance.

On a late summer day, Mrs. Paul Baker, new
women’s supervisor of the Austin Athletic Club,
asked the leader of the Austin Recreation Depart-
ment, “What happens to all of the people when
they finish their square dance classes ?”

“Nothing,” was the answer, “unless they are in-
vited to join a private club.”

, “But isn’t there some place where these people,
as well as the club people, can gather to practice
and to enjoy their mutual knowledge of square and
folk dancing?”

This time the answer was more explicit. “The
city prepares its budget early in the year, and there
are no available funds.”

For a normal person that would have closed the
issue, but Mrs. Baker began, in her own way, to
set the stage for the family square dance that has
now become a traditional entertainment twice each
month throughout ten months of the year.

Her first obstacle was easily overcome when she
received permission from the superintendent of the
Austin Recreation Department to use the club’s
barn-like gym. Her second obstacle was'also one
that she could take in her stride—namely, a nucleus
for the first dance. For this she contacted the pri-
vate club, Lone Star, of which she was a member
and which she knew was seeking a place to dance,
and the most recent Athletic Club classes, includ-
ing the energetic and enthusiastic group of teen-
agers who had danced on the club porch through-
out the summer of 1944 to the recordings of old
schottisch, little foot and square dance tunes. The
third and fourth obstacles were more formidable.
Who was to play and where was the money to

come from to pay them? Scouting over the city of ‘

Austin, she found many fiddlers; two of them
agreed to play—just for the love of playing if
necessary. Their loyalty and generous giving of

244

their time have done much toward making the
family square dance a success—for without good
music there can be no dance. Since there was no
budget, funds for that first dance were raised by
the time-honored tradition of passing the hat.
Extra money was collected from refreshments sold
throughout the evening at the “coke bar.”

Everything seemed to be set for the first dance
by October 1944, but as the Saturday drew closer
and Mrs. Baker looked at the huge bare gym, she
was overcome with misgiving and wondered how it
would be possible to make the small nucleus of
dancers feel comfortable in the large empty Space.
Shortly before the dance she knew she had to make
the dance area smaller, and the devices she used
for this were different at each succeeding dance.
First the tables and chairs of the lobby were moved
in around the dance floor and outdoor colored
lights, left overs from some previous Christmas
program, were strung along the lines made by the
small tables and chairs. This “blanked out” the
large bleacher space and gave the dancers a feel-
ing of compactness and belonging together.

- First Night I

On the first evening the dance was opened with
“Leather Britches”—-—to get the dancers in the
jolly t'wo—step mood. This was followed spontan-
eously with “Haste_to the Wedding.” During the
evening the musicians played what they knew and
then began over again. The squares were either
very fundamental or very complicated, depending
on the caller. If a new caller was asked to the
mike, the beginners formed squares, for they knew
“Take a Peek” and “Swing Old Adam” were the
two calls that would be used. If, however, an ex-
perienced caller stepped up, some of the beginners
would step out, for this was more than they had
mastered. This situation was probably the begin-
ning of the traditional floor show as we know it
now. Mrs. Baker realized then that when the be-
ginners saw the complicated figures, they strove
to master these, too, and asked for them during
the teaching sessions which were held for half ‘an
hour before the grand march.

Some sixty-odd people took active part in this,
the first family square dance, and they formed an
almost permanent nucleus for the many succeed-
ing dances. Because the first dance was such a
success, each one present voted to have another,
and with the approval of the Austin Recreation
Department, the gym was made available the first
and third Saturdays of each month from 8:00 to
I I :00 RM.

RECREATION

 

 

Swing your partner!

Extracurricular Activities

It is impossible to give a history of the family
square dance separate and apart from the history
of the Pioneer Fiddlin’ Folk and Square Dance
Service Unit of Austin, for the two have grown
and served the people of Austin together.

At the second family night, one of the 'fiddlers
showed Mrs. Baker a letter from the Special ser-
vice officer at McCloskey General Hospital of
Temple, Texas, addressed to the Old Fiddlers’
Association of Austin, asking them to bring one
hour of pioneer music to the returned veterans
stationed there. Members of the Association
frankly admitted that they felt they could not en"
tertain for an hour and turned the letter over to
Mrs. Baker. Here was the need for a real show
and a real sponsor.

This time it was simpler to get the sponsor than
the show for wartime shortages made it impossiw
ble to furnish gas, cars, or personnel. Through the
musicians one of the most authentic and colorful
of all the Austin pioneers was contacted. He was
J. D. Dillingham, affectionately called “Uncle
Dave” by each service unit member. After much

‘ AUGUST 1947

persuasion, during which he said he was too old
(78), that he could not dance any more (he out-
jigs the entire unit, including his young brother
who is only 74), and that he had lost his caller’s
voice completely (he brings down the house with
his version of “Home, Sweet Home”), he agreed
to go along just this once to do his duty in further—
ing the war effort. Needless to say, when he was
introduced at McCloskey to a recreation hall filled
with wounded veterans as “our 78-yearvyoung
Uncle Dave” he was easily the star of the show.

After a square of pioneer dancers was secured
and music provided, Mrs. Baker again called upon
her nucleus dancers of the family night, namely,
the teenagers and the Lone Star group. They
were very enthusiastic and from them came a sug-
gestion of having a smaller square, too. Again Mrs.
Baker knew just whom she could get, for during
the summer there had been children’s folk classes
sponsored by the Austin Recreation Department
at the Athletic Club. Now she had all ages, from
8 to 78, four complete squares, the pioneers, the
married couples, the teen—agers, and the twelve
and under group, with a grand fiddle band. Thus
the troupes started one Sunday morning in their
own cars, with their rationed gas, for McCloskey
General Hospital, 65 miles away, to give their first
hour show to crippled veterans of World War II.
Little did they dream on that bright February
morning that they would be called upon by hos-
pitals and camps all over central Texas to continue
giving shows throughout the entire war.

Their biggest thrill came in May 1946 when they
were invited to the show at the National Folk
Festival in Cleveland, Ohio. There again, they had
requests from veterans’ hospitals in that area to
entertain.

On each trip, and there have been over a hun-
dred, the bus was filled with all ages, some sing-
ing gaily to the guitars and fiddles, others quietly
talking and still others settling the major issues of
the moment. Each person was giving generously
of his time and talents, each person was too old or
too young for military service, and every one was
endeavoring to bring the family unit square dance
to each hospital or recreation center. Letters of
thanks and encouragement were received and all
made the service unit feel as though they had done
something for the morale on the home front. Since
the war, calls have come from neighboring U.S.O.
and service centers to help teach and promote
American folk and square dancing among the en-
listees and officers’ groups—and again the Pioneer
Fiddlin’ Folk and Square Dance Club said “yes.”

245

Status Today

The family square dance, as we know it today,
has come a long way from the little gathering that
Saturday night three years ago, and a new era of
square dancing is in store for the citizens of Aus-
tin. It is true, some things are still the same; Mrs.
Baker still directs the dance, the pace is still set
with “Leather Britches,” and there is still a grand
march honoring any outstanding group, individual
or visitor, and there is still a floor show. However,
now the gym is almost too small to hold the danc-
ers and instead of having to hang volley ball and
badminton nets along the bleachers to blot out the
vacant space, all bleacher seats are filled with inter-
ested spectators. The dancing area has become so
crowded that round “spots” are spaced evenly
around the floor to conserve Space and time in
forming squares. Formerly the elaborate decora-
tions were designed to give a feeling of compact-
ness to the participants. Now the decorations are
simple but still in keeping with the season or
special occasion that seems to be different at each
.dance.

At present the lights shine on the three prin-
cipal walls where the Athletic Club staff artists
hang large murals. Sometimes their fancy turns to
fiddle bands, cowboys, or covered wagons; some-
times to Thanksgiving scenes, witches or pump-
kins; and sometimes to Santa riding down the
painted snow with a pack on his back. Each time
one enters the gym on Saturday night, a complete
new scene is in store.

Now the musicians are well-paid and the old
method of passing the hat has long been discarded
in favor of a nominal voluntary assessment per per-
son at the door. The coke bar still functions and
the funds help keep the family square dance a self-
supporting concern. The old public address sys—
tem, with its squeaky mike and humming sound
box, has been replaced by a modern overall pick-
up system and mike bought and used by the family
square dance group. The old gym has been re-
wired so that soft lights can be used in place of the
glaring spots that were necessary only a few
months ago. The Austin Recreation Department
still has regular classes for beginners, and new
clubs under its sponsorship are being organized
regularly; but no club would consider the first or
third Saturday as a meeting date, for that is when
they meet together with the family for an evening
of family square dancing at the AthletiC'Club.

When the state inaugural committee asked the
Recreation Department of Austin to have com-
plete charge of the first pioneer inaugural ball held

246

    
  
   
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
    

since the gay nineties during the inaugural festi
ties honoring the new governor of Texas on Ja
nary 21, 1947, these clubs and the Pioneer 8
vice Unit formed its nucleus. With four otl
balls in progress, it was at the family square dan
ball that the governor and his party remained t
longest. It took a line of highway patrolmen

push the governor into the crowded dance hall, f
dance teams and musicians had gathered from t
four corners of Texas and authorities such

Shaw and Durlacher and Greggerson had come 1
plane and car, not just for the one ball, but for .
entire week end of gay family square dances, ba
becue‘s and informal get-togethers where idea
dances and opinions were exchanged. A direct on
come of this enthusiasm and interest in the Amer
can folk and square dance—particularly the fami
square dance—ivas the organization of a Tex
dance festival to be held next winter with all citi
taking part in the first festival named as charte
members.

Austin can be proud of its Recreation Depart
ment and its workers who have combined th
family square dance and Service Unit Club into
unit that has brought the pioneer spirit and th
true American folk dance to our young people i
such a way that they are proud to be allowed t
dance alongside the pioneers, whether at the reg
ular family dance, a veteran’s hospital or at th
inaugural ball. Yes, indeed, the family square danc
is here to stay!

McClintock Appointed
Superintendent

THE NEWLY consolidated Park and Recreati01-
program in Omaha, Nebraska, is to be di
rected by Ralph McClintock of Fort Wayne, In
diana, according to an announcement by the Omah '
Park and Recreation Commission.

Mr. McClintock leaves Fort Wayne after si.
years as Secretary and Director of the Park Board
Martin M. N ading, Jr., who has been the assistan
director in Fort Wayne, will be promoted as Mr
McClintock’s successor.

As General Superintendent in Omaha, Mr. Mc
Clintock will supervise the one million and a hal
dollar facilities deveIOpment program for whicl
bonds have been voted. He will also direct the re
organization of the park and recreation departinen
and administer the program.

 

RECREATIO

  
 
 
  
   
   
   
    
   
  

There are two bowling greens which are 'also

' well—patronized but more costly, as the member-

0 H ship is $16.00 a year and the balls, which are not

h h  furnished, are expensive. The average age of the

e 1-  a players on the shuffleboard courts I should judge

to be well over 70 with some far along in the

i f     eighties. The bowlers, on the whole, seem a little

- younger. There is one court for croquet, two courts

' I for roque, a number of courts for horseshoes, a

 pavilion for such games as checkers, chess, domi-

noes and other quiet games, and a women’s pavil-

ion which is devoted largely to bridge and rummy.

‘y HENRY S. CURTIS This area is intensively used and the popularity
,' of these activities is ample proof of the need.

There are several smaller recreation areas on
E HAVE GONE on the supposition in the past much the same plan. The next largest is the one in

l

    
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

that the terms “play” and “recreation” re- Beach Park. It covers about half an acre, has over
ferred only to children and youth; but St, three thousand members and is similarly popular.
I etersburg has demonstrated beyond question that I myself Played on the Shiittieheai'd eeurts Oh this
d people are just as fond of good times as young Playground from a little atter 9 to II 01' 12: hVe
'eople, and furthermore that the old people are or six days a week throughout the fall, winter and
' thing and able t0 pay for them. St. Petersburg, spring. There was always a friendliness and good
Florida, is an old folks’ playground par excellence, ieiiOWShiP among the Players Whieh made You
Ind it owes its prosperity to' that fact. This demon- 50011 acquainted and at home-
tration has now been going'on for many years, There are also two softball clubs that are proba-
ttnd its results are beyond question. bly more talked about than any other single feature
St. Petersburg is located on a peninsula with in St. Petersburg. They are the Half Century Club,’
Tampa Bay on one side and the Gulf of Mexico on made up Of men item 50 t0 76 years Of age: and
the other. It is, in normal years, many miles below the Three‘Quai‘tei‘ century Chit): made uP 0t men
the frost line and suitable during nearly all the item 76 t0 90 Years Of age- There ate regular
winter nionths for outdoor bathing and practically matehed games ahOUt three times a week Whieh: in
every Other outdoor aetivity_ The term “play- pleasant weather, always have an attendance run—
ground” may well be applied to the city as a whole hing tat up into the hundreds- There are 36 hiem‘
Ilwith its golf courses, beaches, conferences and fes- hers 011 the Three'Quai'tei' Century Team: 50 some
tivals ; but I wish particularly to refer at this time Of the OidStetS might Play only one inning and
to the intensely developed areas at Mirror Lake might net Play more than Ohee a Week- The OideSt
iand Beach Park. member on the team is 90. He does not play often,
The Mirror Lake Playground covers about two hilt One Who is 86 Years Old is Otteh in the game-
acres. It is organized and controlled by the Mirror AS is to he eXPeeted: these OidSterS do “(it “in
Lake Association, which is a private organization _ very taSt 01' thi'OW Very well; hilt they hat and
electing its own officers and hiring its own em— eatehiieai'iy a5 WeiiaS anyone and usually use g00d
ployees. There were in February of this year 7,600 jadghieht in their PiaY- In the middle 0i eaeh
} members Wh0 paid $400 a year to belong. game they always pass the hat for a voluntary col—
The Association provides for this fee about every ieetiOh: Whieh usually runs to ahOUt a hundred
SOrt Of game suitable for Old people. Of these by dollars. This is given to the Red Cross, the city
far the most popular is Shumeboard. Mirror Lake hospital, work for crippled children, or some other
has 125 courts which are nearly always in use Plihiie eharitY-
from 9 :30 in the morning till 10 O’clock at night. Besides their ball games, the oldsters also have a
So great is the demand that there is often no court Choral eitih: and a dramatic Chih Whieh gives Plays-
free, and one must wait his turn to get a game, and The AUdUhOH Chih Pi'OVideS bird ieetures and
resign his plaee after playing three games_ The conducts bird walks, and the Garden Club gives
ame is as popular with the women as with the lectures and bird walks-
men. The Association furnishes the courts, the Very much the same sort of activities have been
cues and disks, though most prefer to purchase spreading slowly to the country clubs and resorts
their own cues. of the North. '

AUGUST 1947 247

St. Petersburg IS a city of some 80,000 people
in summer with 50,000 to 70,000 extra tourists
in the winter. These winter visitors are mostly
old people, so this cannot be regarded as a normal
population, but there are old people in every
city and its seems likely that nearly every city
in the United States of 100,000 could support at
least one such playground as the one at Mirror
Lake and that it would be good business to do it.
Old folks seem to need these activities and appreci-
ate them as much as the children. My idea is that
in all of our larger playgrounds, and all of the
playgrounds that we are to acquire hereafter, there
should be a section for the oldsters. The activities
that the old folks enjoy are such that they need not
make great inroads on the restricted playground
space.

The playground I am thinking of would be for
all ages but especially for people who have reached
the age of retirement. The number of these oldsters
is increasing every year with our increasing life
span.

School children with their classes and homework
are really very busy people and they have leisure
only after school, on week ends and during vaca-
tions, but most of these old people have all their
time on their hands and plenty of leisure for all
sorts of activities.

Of course many of them have Special interests
that keep them busy. Some have gardens, some
like to fix up things, and others have hobbies of
various kinds. The women usually fare better than
the men, inasmuch as they usually have some
housework to do and at any rate they can sew or
knit, but there are very few of this group who
could not well put in two or three hours every day
in such a community center.

The same forces that are lengthening the span of
human life are bringing our people up to the age
of retirement in better physical condition, with a
greater store of motor skills and leisure interests,
that they have acquired {in the recreation centers
or in school activities, than their fathers had. They
will be more ready to take part in all sorts of activi-
ties than their fathers were at their age.

The present age of retirement in most industries
and under Social Security is 65, but the labor
unions are asking that this age be reduced to 60,
and if we should have a great depression with
millions out of work, this lowering of the age limit
may result. What is the public going to do about
it? It cannot turn out our working population from
industry at 60 or 65 and provide no place for them
to go and nothing for them to do.

248

 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
    
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
  

If there were a small auditorium in connecti
with the old folks’ playground, it might well .
come a vital community center and civic forum
the discussion of public affairs. Many of these
people are under Social Security and may well
that they are reserve officers of the state unde
certain responsibility to render public service as .
opportunity offers. The experience of St. Pete
burg shows that they are glad to do it.

It would be an advantage to the playgrounds
have these old people there. They might well ad
the playground as their personal responsibility,
see that its equipment is repaired, lost balls a
equipment replaced, and that it does not get un
the domination of rowdies. They might well sel
from their number a reserve staff that might ‘
called upon by the director to tell stories, do ma
tricks, conduct bird or nature hikes, or show p
sonal movies, of which we found there was alwa
an ample supply in St. Petersburg. It is good,
any case, for a playground to be under observatio
and to have an informed group of voters who c
represent its interests at the polls; and matche "
games between the oldsters and the youngste
would be sure to arouse public interest.

Movie Clubs in England

J ARTHUR RANK in a recent interview spok
o with great enthusiasm of the boys’ and girl .
movie clubs in England. He believes that thes
clubs will help make confirmed customers of th
motion pictures out of the coming generation
but it is not alone for business reasons that he take
so much interest in them.

The N ew Y ark Times for June I, 1947 quote
him as saying, “At present there are about 400,
children who are members of these clubs, but W
hope to increase that number before long. On
picture out of every five we turn out especially fo
them, and we shall soon increase that proporti01
I for one believe that the public will accept bette
pictures than many that are being made. One u
the principal functions of the cinema in to im
prove the taste of the public. I see the film industr
developing into a great art, an art which will brin
happiness to many and peace to the-world. Throug
pictures the people of one country will get t
know the people of other countries and get t
understand them better. It is through understand
ing that peace will come to the world.”

RECREATIO

 

mcricmr Red Cross

. ccupa’rion Soldiers

I ound Off—

n Juvenile Delinqueh'CY

y MARIE LOMAS
merican Red Cross

0 ONE HAS THOUGHT to ask the young occu-
pation soldier what he would suggest as a
solution for juvenile delinquency, but when

he American Red Cross sponsored a “Star Your

tate” contest in the Far East recently the service—
nen jumped at the chance to sound off on what
hey thought was needed in their individual states

0 combat the problem.

   

The idea of the contest was to give the men an
pportunity to present their plans for ways and
means of improving the social and economic life in
‘heir home states. As essays, models, charts and
raphs poured into contest headquarters, the young
oldiers, many of them teen-agers themselves, made
t evident that they were taking seriously the prob—
cm of juvenile delinquency and that when they
ome home they intend to do something about it.

AUGUST 1947

Ideas were submitted on all types
of subjects, from improved har-
bors to ways of beautifying back
alleys. But near the top and sec—
ond only to the need for better
educational facilities in the num—
ber of entries came juvenile de—
linquency.

In general the occupation sol-
diers’ answer to the problem was
the same in all 81 essays devoted
to the subject—“better recreation
facilities.” But the servicemen
didn’t leave it at that. They go
down to cases.

Pfc. Willam H. Mikesch, De—
troit, Michigan, grand prize win-
ner for the Japan area, submitted
a table-size model community cen—
ter, complete with floor plans. said
Mr. Mikesch, “The rapid in-
crease in the number of multiple—
family dwellings has not only elimi-
nated the backyard—formerly the
main playground of the children—
but it also has reduced the oppor-
tunity for indoor forms. of family
recreation. My community center
is designed for wholesome indoor
and outdoor recreation activities
for the community, to promote
civic pride and enterprise and to
provide cultural interest in music,
art and literature.”

Photo by Day

His model features a large audi—
torium, ballroom, theater and
rooms for major group activities.

There is a library, sewing room, music and study
room, and last, but not least, a nursery so that the
young marrieds can come and bring the babies
that otherwise might keep the whole family at
home.

Because the recreation center experience of most
of the occupation soldiers has been in the Ameri—
can Red Cross clubs and recreation centers over—
seas, and because they have seen first-hand how
these centers have attracted the young soldiers
away from less wholesome'activities, many of the
community center plans were patterned closely
after these clubs.

The “In-Betweens”

A plan of this type recommended by the state
prize winner for New York was for a community

249

youth center where classes in photography, radio,
languages, cooking, drama, music dancing and
athletics would be given. Quiz programs and
forum discussions of current affairs were among
the programs suggested.

“Young people comprise a very large, very im-
portant and very neglected group,” this soldier
pointed out. “The results of their collective actions
are felt in every hoine and church and throughout
every community. But the absence of a collective
voice has permitted their cause to go unheeded in
many communities. Most of the teen-agers hold
promise of good citizenship. Some do not. But all,
regardless of their personal advantages, will bene-
fit from a wisely administered program of youth
activities.

“Teen-agers are diverse in their interests and
their talents. Therefore, the planned program must
be varied. There are the sports crowd, the bobby
soxers, the Saturday salesmen, the stock boys and
girls, the delivery boys, the movie ushers and
usherettes, the baby tenders, the young natural-
ists, the camera fans, the radio hams, the amateur
actors and actresses, the budding musicians, the
wide-eyed chemists, the Boy and Girl Scouts and
the fraternity and sorority crowd. All these and
many others need an outlet for their energies, their
talents and their interests.

“Judy Garland once sang a song, ‘I’m Just an
In—Between.’ The words can be applied today to
the fourteen-to-eighteen age group. It describes
perfectly the young people who are in between
complete dependence upon the home and the inde-
pendence of maturity. They go outside the home
to satisfy their social needs. Some seek diversions
individually, others in a group. Not all choose their
entertainment wisely. They need the opportunity
for recreation and a way to use their talents in a
wholesome atmosphere. The community youth
center can provide this.”

The Teen Canteen launched by citizens of
Johnstown, Pennsylvania, which has been adopted
by other Pennsylvania communities with “over a
million teen-agers in 5,000 clubs in Pennsylvania,”
was highly recommended by a soldier who felt that
this was a real stride toward solving the juvenile
delinquency problem. The Teen Canteen has danc-

ing twice a week, games and crafts on off nights
and lectures and movies intermittently.

Other Suggestions

To solve the housing problem for the recreation
centers a soldier from Ohio suggested the reha-
bilitation of deserted army camps into community

250

   
   
   
  
    
  
   
  

centers if near enough to be easily reached l

young people. Swimming pools and tennis cou
go with some of these camps.

Several soldiers suggested “open-all-year vac
tion parks” for families with average or low i
comes. In these parks families that have me
been able to afford a vacation could enjoy a ran
type hotel at rates they could afford: Included
the vacation park would be riding facilities, swii
ming pools, a pond for model boat races that
winter could be used for skating, a skeet range
adults, a hobby shop. As many activities as pos
ble should be free.

A serviceman from Connecticut presented
idea for a “Hobby House” for every small co
munity. “Many people back home have talent a
ability but never get a chance to do anything 1
cause of lack of material and no place to wor
he pointed out. “My idea is to have hobby sh
financed by the state, craft shops where peo
may make things they want for a small fee.
state could buy the machinery, which is too a
pensive for the average citizen. For a small cha
for materials Mr. Average Citizen would have
Opportunity for recreation, at the same time liv'
a richer, fuller life. Both young people and ad
could share in the craft opportunities. It w01
help to keep young people closer to their fami
until they are old enough to go out independentl

Recreation Blues

ON JUNE 2, 1947 the Baltimore Evening ..
printed this item about its recreation direct
H. S. Callowhill, director of the Baltimore
partment of Recreation, said he was feel

slightly “deflated” today.

His reason was the receipt of the follow
message from the National Recreation Associati

“May 28, Los Angeles citizens voted by a sp
did majority $12,000,000 in bond issues for pl
grounds.”

Just before the message arrived, Mr. Callow
was still feeling happy about the $1, 500,000 v
by Baltimore for playgrounds in the recent
tion.

Somebody pointed out that Los Angeles
bigger than Baltimore, but Mr. Callowhill s
“It's not that much bigger.”

RECREATI

St. Louis Sells Recreation

By J. A. TURNER

 
  
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
 
      
    

HE SMALLER industrial organizations in the im-
mediate vicinity of the various community
centers in St. Louis have been the object of
me intensive recreation promotion work during
e past few months. The campaign, which has
i. en highly successful to date and which bears the
omise of 100 per cent success, was conducted by
-, City Recreation Department in its efforts to
ach with a recreation program the maximum
mber of St. Louisans.
ll The campaign had its inception when it was
L lized that the recreation department with its
esent limitations was unable to get in contact
th each St. Louisan individually. At that time
was decided that the only way to make the city
I' a whole aware pf what the recreation depart-
nt offered was to take advantage of all existing
. ups. In a short time, every club or social or-
 ization within a five mile radius of each of the
L ’5 community centers was made acquainted with
I - program offered in those centers. Most of these
4 bs are now represented on the community cen-
' councils which hold semi-monthly meetings at
- centers and plan for the more complete use of
h - existing facilities, discuss the program offered
5: perform related functions with a view toward
-_ king the centers serve the community more
1' npletely.
I hus, with very little opposition, “Operation
of the promotion campaign was completed. The
.' 011d phase of the program bogged down. This
II . . .
- 0nd phase concerned those 1nd1v1duals not af-
5 ated with any existing groups. After a thorough
3 onnaisance, the smaller industrial organizations
.‘ hout their own recreation facilities or programs
'-_ re selected as the next objective. Teams of the
' ters’ directors and staff members visited the
I 1pany executives to secure their cooperation.
' reception these visiting groups received was
. erally very discouraging.
I he small gains that were made by these visits
re fortified with some attractive activities de-
ned to the taStes of employees during their
ch hours and after working hours. The recrea-

department marshalled its forces, held numer-

   

  
  
 
  
 
  
    
   
  

    
  
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
 

GUST 1947

’ Superin’renden’r of Recrea’rion
51'. Louis. Missouri

ous staff meetings to determine the best line to
take to overcome misunderstanding of the program
and prejudice against it. After a few more visits
information secured from employees taking part in
these activities indicated that a narrow under-
standing of recreation values was responsible for
the resistance to the program. Industrial executives
felt that it would injure production and reduce
profits. Immediately, a program of “psychological
warfare” was undertaken. Daily form lettersrand
invitations from the recreation department began
to appear in the mail boxes of the executives who
were opposed. These letters were designed to take
advantage of the worship of productive efficiency
rather than to attempt to tear it down. Good sound
business principles were extolled and praised, but
along with that praise went items regarding indus-

-try’s responsibility for employees’ welfare and the

increase in production which could be expected
from well-planned employees’ recreation activities.

One month of this intensive campaign served to
weaken the resistance of the supervisory personnel.
More and more employees, stimulated by those
already won over, began to clamor for the right of
every man to play. A few plant executives began
to show some interest in the possibilities of recre-
ation and requested suggestions for activities for
their plants. At this point a group of supervisors
of various recreation activities visited the plants.
In spite of some sporadic sniping by secretaries-
ever-loyal-to-the—boss, the delegation reached the
commander-in-chief in most instances and the sec-
ond-in-command in all others. Again the recrea-
tion delegation presented its arguments. On orders
from recreation headquarters, however, they‘left
without attempting to make any specific agree-
ments.

The educational campaign was resumed until all
but a few of the plants were asking for assistance
from the recreation department. This was exactly
what the recreation headquarters staff had been
waiting for. Noon hour programs were organized
wherein employees, and in many cases executives,
visited the centers and participated in the various
activities offered. In those cases where it was im-

251

practical for the employees to visit the center, rec-
ommendations were made for the provision of
card games, checkers, horseshoes and other activi—
ties that readily lend themselves to the available
Space at the factories.

The campaign has been nearly perfect. A very
few of the more stubborn executives are still hold-
ing out, but continued efforts are gradually wear-
ing down that resistance. Use is also being made
of those executives who were converted. They are
participating in the campaign and painting attrac-
tive pictures of more contented, more efficient
employees.

The ammunition which proved most effectiye
were the following statements:

An employer owes it to his employees to make

Wales Plays Again

Q

By P. M. RUPERT
Los AngelesI California

N ANCIENT and beautiful custom, which was
A shattered in the grind of war, has slipped into
place again. For centuries the Eisteddfod*
of Wales was one of the world’s great festivals,
bringing the colorful and entertaining bards to-
gether in a whirl of gaiety and song. But all such
happy activities were forgotten when Hitler’s
bombers roared over the English Channel, and not
until five years had passed were the merrymakings
undertaken once more.

It was the coal mining community of Ponciau in
the county of Denbigh that started the ball rolling
in August 1945 when it entertained the Na-
tional Eisteddfod of Wales. Then, in July 1946 the
rebirth of the national festival of the Welch Youth
Movement—Eisteddfod Genedlaethol Urdd Gobaith
Cymru—-—occurred in Shakespeare’s historic Cor-
wen, Meirionydd, which is situated in North Wales
on the beautiful river Dee. It was most appropriate
that Corwen should be chosen for the three-day

 

*Eisteddfod: An annual c0ngress of bards and literati of \Vales,
In Its present form a 19th century revival.

252

provision for their welfare and recreation during
the time they spend in the plant and not working.

An employee who can play and relax a few min—
utes during the working period is a more con—
tented, more efficient employee.

Any investment to provide relaxation and recrea-
tion for employees will pay dividends in increased
production.

All available facilities should [be used—from plant
facilities, however limited, to outside community
facilities, especially municipal facilities.

It is good business to use that which you pay for.
You are paying for, you have paid for, and you
will continue to pay for the use of municipal
facilities through taxation. Why not make use of
them when you can?

An interesting side light of the campaign is tl
fact that approximately 50 industrial teams ma

use of municipal facilities last year and double t
number are expected to ‘this summer.

celebration for it was here in 1929 that Yr Urd 3'
held its first National Eisteddfod.

Music, of course, held the spotlight and rang _
from folk songs to difficult compositions, both i
strumental and orchestral. Several of the you ll
clubs (many of which were composed of childr
under ten years of age) excelled in the native a
of calm. pennill’ion—the traditional style of setti
verse to an extempore counter-melody. In additio
there were various dramatic offerings, an arts a
crafts exhibition, and original verse and prose pr
sentations. Graceful dances, too, added their diver
charms.

Thus the entertainment followed the old, 0
pattern—to the gratification of the venera
\Nelshmen who were fearful their culture 'a1
language might die out or become weakened
alien influence. In fact, it was due to their effo
that there was a revival of the community clu
which, more than anything else, perpetuate t
Welsh heritage—as the oldsters very well kne
Later, the national festivals created enthusias
so a good start was made at reorganizing all t
various groups. But if added impetus was need
England’s Heir Presumptive supplied it.

 

The Princess Joins

Following in the footsteps of the King
Queen who were initiated in 1926, Princess Eli
beth became a member of the select Gorsedd
Bards when she attended the National Eistedd
of Wales on Mountain Ash, Glamorgan,
August.

RECREATI J

Dressed in the formal white robes of the bards.
she marched with the women members of the
Bardic Circles from the local school to the Gorsedd
Circle where an impressiye ceremony was held.
Thus was added one more royal bead to the
always diversified, but ever scintillating, chain of
the bards.

And “scintillating” exactly describes both the
play and the players—today and in ages"past. The
very word “bard” evolved from just such festivals
as these. First applied to Celtic poets, the name
was later used to describe poets and minstrels of
Gaul and Britain. These were nomad tribes but
the acquisition of a title made them feel they were
people of consequence, so they organized societies
which conferred rights and privileges on the mem—
bers. A

Huge festivals were then held at intervals, which
provided lively entertainment for the whole com-
pany. An interesting feature of these get-togethers
concerned the divisions into which the different
bards fell: some celebrated victories and sang
hymns of praise; others chanted the laws of the
land, and a third group gave poetic genealogies and
family histories. But the outstanding events were
the daily song contests which were umpired by the
princes and nobles of the region. In these the bards
outdid themselves!

But the gay assemblies were frowned on-in some
circles and the conventions gradually died out dur-
ing the reign of Queen Elizabeth. They were later
revived. however, and for many years were held
regularly, particularly in Wales andxl‘reland. But
the nomadic bards could no longer consider the
Eisteddfod their personal field of entertainment!

Now whenever one of the celebrations was
staged in a community, the Spirit of rivalry and
fun became so contagious that the artistic home
folks captured what they could of it—to savor later
on. Consequently, small local Eisteddfodau sprang
up throughout the land. They featured the poetry
and music of the master bards and also added
pertinent features of their own.

Development

At first these clubs staged contests with groups
no further away than.the next village, but gradu—
ally their fame and activities spread until they
eventually became identified with the great Eistedd-
fod itself.

In this same manner the individual clubs of
today follow the path to national prominence. The
hrst step is to excel in district competitions, then
in county fetes. Subsequently the winners are
given preliminary tests at the National Eisteddfod ;

AUGUST 1947

then the most outstanding individuals, teams and
choirs engage in the final contests.

It has always been a high honor to win national
recognition, and everyone works long and hard
towards that end. And now that the Eisteddfod
has once again taken its rightful place in the
universe, there will be a display of talent and skill
this summer that will undoubtedly surpass any
ever displayed at a festival. This year peace will
be celebrated in song and story, dance and drama.
The Eisteddfod of Wales, one of the world’s great-
est festivals, will be greater than ever!

Books Received

 

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Creative Crafts in Wood, by Michael C. Dank. The Man-
ual Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois. $3.00.

More Ben Hunt Whittlings, by W. Ben Hunt. The Bruce
Publishing Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $2.50.

You Can Draw Anything, by William F. Mullin. The
gohn C. Winston Company, Philadelphia-Toronto.
1.25.

GAMES

Banks’ Blindfold Checker Masterpieces, by Newell W.
Banks. David McKay Company, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. $2.50.

Pool Checkers, by Theodore P. Hines. David McKay
Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $2.00.

MISCELLANEOUS

Outdoor Book, The, by Wanda Taylor Linderman. Camp
Fire Girls, Inc. $.60.

Play Therapy, by Virginia Mae Axline. Houghton Mif—
flin Company, Boston, Massachusetts. $3.50.

Racial Factor in Y.M.C.A.’s, The, prepared by Dr. J.
Howell Atwood. Association Press, New York. $2.25.

Sing of America, collected and arranged by Tom Scott.
Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New York. $4.00.

SPORTS

Crawl Stroke Illustrated, The, by Capt. T. W. Sheflield,
Beach and Pool, New York. $2.00.

Official Golf Guide 1947, edited by Bill Richardson. A. S,
Barnes and Company, New York. $.50. '

Sports and Games, by Harold Keith. Thomas Y. Crowell
Company, New York. $2.75.

Official Basketball Guide, The, 1946-47. A. s. Barnes
and Co., New York. $.50.

Official Basketball and Officials Rating Guide for Women
and Girls, The, 1946-47. A. S. Barnes and Co., New
York. $.35.

Official Ice Hockey Guide, The, 1947. A. S. Barnes and
Co., New York. $.50.

Sailing Primer, The, by Rosemary and Steever B. Oldden.
Cornell Maritime Press, New York. $2.50.

Star Atlas and Navigation Encyclopedia, The, Iby S. S.
Rabl. Cornell Maritime Press, New York. $5.00. ’

Exploring Our National Parks and Monuments, Devereaux
Butcher. Oxford University Press, New York. $1.75.

Amateur Handcraft, F. Clarke Hughes. The Bruce Pub-
lishing Co., Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin. $2.50.

253

Lebert H. Weir

 

EBERT H. \VEIR’S work with recreation depart-
ments throughout the country has done much
to build the recreation movement. He has made
many important studies in a number of cities
throughout the country which were the beginnings
of recreation departments and on which they still
function. Through his work both here and abroad
he has come to be recognized throughout the world
as an authority on the recreational use of parks.

This recent letter from V. K. Brown to Howard
"lraucher, President of the National Recreation
Association, about Lebert VVeir’s service is among
the many expressions of appreciation received over
the years.

“You probably have heard of a bill in Springfield
proposing to abolish the independent Park District
here and turn the parks over to the City Council,
to be operated as a department of the city govern-
ment. Our organization isn’t campaigning in op-
position, but we have suggested in various places
that people give some serious thought to the ques-
tion before going too far on the theoretical princi»
ple of consolidation of municipal functions.

“I am dropping you this line to let you know '

that L. H. \Neir attended the session of the Rec-
reation Commission’s committee on such matters,
and did a splendid job of reviewing the history of
similar measures in other cities of the country. We
feel that we owe him a big debt. He directed think—
ing on the part of this committee in those first few

254

minutes after the subject was Opened up, and you
know how vitally important it is that thinking start
in the right direction, since afterward it is very
likely to continue in the same course. His counsel
brought sharply into view the two sides to the
question, and insured a thoughtful balancing of
considerations on the part of the Commission, at
least, and of other citizens who will be influenced
by the Commission. It was an awfully good day’s
work for Chicago and I thought you would be in-
terested in knowing about it.

“No doubt Weir made a report, but the other
fellow’s point of view sometimes presents interest-
ing and supplementary angles. Our General At-
torney thought well enough of Weir’s presentation
to ask the secretary'of the meeting to give him a
transcription of every note she took, not alone the
minutes of the meeting which condensed these
notes. As I said before, all of us feel that he did a
wonderful job for the city, and we think you are
entitled to know that that’s the way we feel
about it.”

The national recreation movement owes much
to Lebert Weir for his line service through the
years.

Mrs. Fred R. Easterday

MRS. FRED R. EASTERDAY of Lincoln, Nebraska,
represented the National Recreation Asso-
ciation at the Y.M.C.A.-Y.\V.C.A. conference in

Grinnell, Iowa, in June.

Mrs. Easterday has given long and generous
service in recreation to Lincoln, the state and the
entire recreation movement. She helped form the
Lincoln Recreation Council in 1922 and was ap-
pointed to the official board which was created in
192 5. She has served continuously since then. She
was responsible more than any other one person
for the organization of the Lincoln recreation pro-
gram. '

She was the state P.T.A. recreation chairman
beginning in 1924 for 15 years and she has also
served as local National Recreation Association
sponsor and attended Recreation Congresses in
Atlantic City and Pittsburgh. She promoted home
play week throughout the state of Nebraska, has
worked with the State Extension Department and
has visited many cities of Nebraska to help develop
recreation.

She has always served as a volunteer in the
Lincoln program.

RECREATION

-I-

-._|—

   

I Bier wish you were

(Riaciciin 

YOU remember him . . .

He was the lucky fellow who found a
magic lamp. It gave him everything he
wished for—from diamond-crusted palaces
to a sultan’s daughter as his bride. '

You’ve probably wished a lot of times f01
a miracle like this to happen to you. Maybe
not for out-of-this-world treasures, but for
something that will take care of the things
that are bound to come up.

Like medical expenses, or college for the
kids. Or maybe just for the nice, safe feel—
ing it gives you to have some extra money
put aside for the future.

Though no magic is involved, there is a
way to give you this security. The Payroll
Savings Plan. Or, if you’re not eligible for
the Payroll Plan but have a checking ac-
count, the new Bond-a-Month Plan.

Either way, it’s almost unbelievable how
quickly your money accumulates.

Where else can you get such a safe, gen-
erous return on your money ($4 for every
$3)? It’s so simple—so easy, you hardly miss
the money that you’re saving.

And don’t forget—at the same time, you’re
making more!

Next to a magic lamp, there’s no better
way than this to make sure your future is

secure.

Save the easy,au+oma+ic way . . .wil-h U.S.Savings’ Bonds

 

AUGUST -1 947

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation
with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

255

Recreation. for Convalescents

By ROBERT L. HORNEY

Superintendent of Recreation
Peoria. Illinois

1511 ON THE EDGE of the East Bluff overlook—
H ing the city of Peoria and the Illinois River

stands St. Francis Hospital. In the conva-
lescent ward on the eighth floor of the hospital are
a bunch of youngsters wishing and dreaming and
waiting for those days to come which will mean bike
rides, hikes, baseball and swimming again. ’Most' of
the patients are victims of last year’s polio epidemic.

Enthusiasm is high among these youngsters now
as a result of the recreation program provided by
the Peoria Playground and Recreation Board.

A few months ago, the Board, realizing the need
of relaxation and recreation for the long stay
patients, began an expanding program of activities.

The weekly program is directed by the super-
visor of arts and crafts of the Recreation Board
and offers for the most part a variety of games and
crafts. On Saturdays and Sundays Junior Red
Cross representatives from all the high schools.
under the supervision of the arts and crafts leader,
arrive at the ward for morning and afternoon ses-
sions of playing various party games with the chil-
dren and assisting with the craft work. Many of
the patients are of the same age as
the Junior Red Cross workers and
the Opportunity to play and work
with other young people their age
keeps them in contact with their
school class and acts as an impor-
tant morale booster.

Activities

Crafts, such as weaving and
paper,work, are participated in by
the children. One enterprising
youth made profitable use of the
craft program and sold approxi—
mately $70 worth of chair sets and
pot holders to visitors. Before
Easter the children made attractive
favors for the patients’ trays.

Innumerable party games, dis—
tributed on a loan basis, are played
between the patients and visitors

256

during visiting hours. New games are added to the
portable unit from time to time.

In addition to the game and craft program,
movies, typical of those shown at the community
centers, are presented every Wednesday afternoon
in the recreation room for the “up” patients by the
Housing Unit Supervisor for the Recreation
Board. Bed patients are allowed turns to attend
the movie depending on available wheel chairs and
stretchers.

On Wednesday evenings a repeat showing of the
movie is given in the annex, mainly for adult
patients. The evening attendance usually averages
60. The patients enjoy the movie program so much
that they always need reassurance that each VVed-
nesday will bring a new show.

Every Thursday morning a private movie show-
ing is held for an iron lung patient. The lung is
tilted so that the patient may watch the film dis-

Fun for the bed-ridden

 

RECREATION

.QOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0.000000000000000000000000000000000000

 no. 38

COMBINATION

   

It’s a space saver! It’s a money-savanna!

Yes, here’s a Playground Combination Set that has been care-
fully planned to solve the problem of limited space. Small
playgrounds can install the Porter No. 38, and still provide
a wide variety of healthful exercise and fun for the children.

Look at all the apparatus this one unit affords! Two Stand-
ard See-Saws, one Horizontal Bar, two Swings, a Pair of
Flying Rings, one Trapeze, and one 16-ft. Porter Safety Slide
—plus the sturdy lO-ft. steel frame that’s galvanized inside
and out and held rigidly together for years and years with
Tested Malleable Iron fittings of exclusive Porter design.
The No. 38 Combination Set has price appeal, too. Write for E N G I N E E R E D

. . . PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT
the attracuvely low figure, and complete spec1lications. Im-
mediate delivery!

 

WRITE FOR THE NEWEST
CATALOG OF PORTER

THE J. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS 0F PlAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

Reu.U.$.Pat.OfT. STRUCTURE

 

AUGUST 1947 257

played on the wall of his room, and he keeps a
schedule of the weekly movies he will see.

Another phase of the program is the record
library service, with phonograph and popular rec-
ords that may be enjoyed. in the patients’ rooms.
Popular bands playing the latest music constitute
most of the music in the library.

Stamp collecting and other hobbies are encour-
aged and“hobby-minded children are assisted by
the leaders. Storytelling to the smaller children has
also become part of the program.

The hospital chaplain is sincere in his praise of
the recreation program, says that it is a real factor
in keeping the convalescents happy and content
and in bringing them back to normal living.

As one young patient put it: “It’s sure swell that
us kids can play games up here. It makes the day
so much shorter.”

Gardening As Recreation

HE PHENOMENAL growth of interest in garden-
Ting is one of the outstanding developments of
the war. It is estimated that between 18 and 20
million victory gardens helped to assure adequate
food supplies during the war period.

Irvington, New Jersey, is one of many commu-
nities where interest in gardening has not declined
since the close of hostilities. Many residents have
broadened their interests to include both flower and
vegetable growing and permanent planting to im-
prove the attractiveness of home grounds. From a
patriotic “duty” wartime gardening has developed
into a fascinating form of recreation for many resi—
dents who found that “working in the soil" had
many satisfactions.

The fourth annual Victory Garden Fair spon—
sored by the Victory Garden Committee of the
Irvington Department of Recreation was held last
August in the Municipal Building. Both visitors
and entries exceeded previous records.

Classes were provided for individuals, families
and community gardens. As was true in previous
years the class for “standard red tomatoes” (with
.24 entries) was one of the centers of interest. In
spite of close competition by more experienced
gardeners, a 14-year—old boy won top honors.

A “horn of plenty” furnished the motif for one
community garden display. Fourteen varieties of
vegetables filled a table space 3 x 8 feet. This par-

258

ticular exhibit, judged for variety and excellence
of vegetable specimens and general appearance,
and winning the community garden competition,
received warm acclaim by State Experiment Sta-
tion judges. The donor of the award in this section
was so enthused that the final “prize” turned out
to be a chicken dinner for the twenty “residents”
of this particular community garden. Fair judges,
clubs and individuals donated other awards.

In addition to the many, classes for vegetables,
there were 20 classes for canning and four classes
for flowers grown in vegetable gardens.

Opportunity was given during the Fair for
answers to garden problems and discussion of the
various varieties of vegetables suitable for climate
and home garden conditions.

The Recreation Department organized the Fair
and did the necessary clerical work——class cards,
score sheets, entry forms. Committees from'the
Victory Garden Committee assumed responsibility
for staging, room arrangements, scoring and judg-
ing—Philip Le Boutillier, Director of Recreation,
Irvington, New Jersey.

  

'35::le THUPHIES 8:. AWARDS

FOR ALL MAJOR SPORTS

This finely finished Trophy is available
in four popular sizes. Beautiful new
design with polished Sun-Ray £nish.

No. Hf. Each
23A IS” $14.50
24A 16” 21.50
25A 19” 25.50
26A 22” 35.00

Engraving 7c per letter.
Your inquiry invited.

Quality individual and team prizes
and awards for every major sport f. ' _
are available. Trophies with fully '
modeled athletic figures may be pur- "
chased for as little as $2.50. 

Write Dept. R for Free Illustrated Catalog

EDWIN W; LANE Co.

32 W. RANDOLPH STREET CHICAGO I, ILL.

  

   
    
 
   
         
      
      
        
 
    
 
     
   
 

    
       
  
 

IIAVE YOU SENT fOR 77/15 [95! 80051;”?

 

JUST OFF THE PRESS-—this impor—
tant booklet, chuck full of valuable
facts on getting your High School
Boxing Program underway is your:
FREE for the asking. Written by
John Walsh, it clears up numerous
misconceptions about boxing—espe—
cially valuable to newcomers in the
program.

NATIONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT CO.

365 No. Marquette
FOND DU LAC, WIS.

Makers of NATIONAL Gym Mats,
Boxing Rings, and kindred
equipment

RECREATION

 

       
   
  
      

 
 

- y 
3hr); -
-_.;, 2'» - 4 ‘ -.,
. .5 - . .
Lia. t a.“ r; x-‘szw A at."
‘ "W" ‘ >4 ‘ w “3" %<\ 4:”- t I}:
5‘ v~_, . :v M M ,~< 2' a}. (J, 33‘
" ~ :3“ ~ if v ’3 w 3.x, “Mum, “9. i ,\
t a. :w x j .1 \, A»; < < vx .QL.‘ 4,. dasqw,
'1 ‘ .- 1 x M a.
‘ z a.
‘ ~. M " z "‘ r ,3,
, am; y .1 k E
9-" ~ -:~’5 '\
.m- x 2-. '\. ,.
w w .2 v A e \ Us 4*
’>w. ~
\ a. ‘ . a..-
x ‘- .

r

  waterproof < ? ~

5' we 6/2199; zed (2m Zéaéiée/Jw/é- 5%? {Adi ;

         

1| \
:i
- ‘ they wank! stitl derive? the {mast narfarmiécé Mat 3!! giaying’ candiéans +33? ; a V— 
+ " the Iang'eg 931%de tigfe’._Rém*e+m§1érJ—7 al! .Vnitclmiit 
* [talk we matherpmaf, waterpmsf, wearpraef.‘
I1 G 1". O a Q
A ' H I ' I C
IN 33""?!

AUGL

WORLD AT PLAY

AN elaborately furnished
and lighted doll’s house
with a family of storks
nesting on the roof, a carved rooster and a model
of the Taj Mahal were among the blue ribbon
winners at the first city-wide hobby show by per-
sons more than 60 years old. Held at the Russell
Sage Foundation in May, the exhibit was spon-
sored by the Welfare Council of New York City.
Men and women from thirty-live institutions for
the aged of all denominations, plus many indi—
vidual hobbyists contributed to the display of 400
articles.

Never Too Old

SIXTH graders through
junior high school boys
and girls were competi-
tors in a playground lay-

Youngsters Draw
Up Plans

out contest in Tacoma, Washington. The object'

was to draw a plan of how the Jane Clark Play-
iield should be laid out when finally developed.
Sponsored by the North End Recreation Associa-
tion of Tacoma, the plans.had to include a corner
for preschool children, an apparatus area for older
children, a hard surfaced area for games, a wading
pool and many other recreation facilities.

LAND purchased by the
German Government in
1938 for an embassy in
Washington was turned
over to the District of Columbia Commissioner in
May for use as a public playground. The site had
been seized as enemy property by the office of the
Alien Property Custodian. Permanent title will be
vested in the National Capital Park and Planning
Commission as soon as the necessary legislation
can be enacted.

Washington Play-
ground

BROOCHES, earrings and
other novelties are the
products of the shell-
craft class sponsored by the Recreation Depart-
ment of Gainesville, Florida. The class meets twice
a week and although it is comprised mostly of 10
- and 11—year-old girls, the few boys who do par-
ticipate work just as painstakingly as the feminine
members. In Gainesville, no Mother’s Day, birth-
day or Christmas is celebrated without its share of
unusual gifts made in the shellcraft class. '

Products of the Sea

260

   
  
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

A WORLD Youth Festiv
with perhaps 40,00
youth representing 60 n
tions participating is being held in Prague, Czech
Slovakia, from July 20 to August 17. The festiv
is featuring educational, cultural and sports a
tivities.

Youth Festival

INSTEAD of a form
schoolroom program, ov
220 students select
from Future Farmers 1
America chapters in Florida were taken to a sta
park to study at the forestry training camp spo
sored by the Florida Forest Service. Here inte
sive study was supplemented with sports and e
tertainment. This summer’s plans called for t\
separate camps of a week each beginning July l
with hrst year students attending the iirst we
and second year students the second week.

Education Plus
Recreation

SEATTLE Junior Pr
grams, Inc., is holding
F ifth National Play C01
petition “to encourage the writing of plays of hi
standards for performance before junior au
ences.” A non—proiit corporation, the organizati
has been sponsoring theater for junior citize
since 1939 and has also sponsored entertainme
for spastic children. Prize-winning plays will
used in these programs and awards will be p
sented to the authors of the best originals and b
adaptations from non-dramatic sources and fr
foreign plays. Manuscripts must be postinar
not later than midnight December 15, 1947 a
the results of the competition will be announ ,
March 15, 1948.

Author, Author

CORONA, California, 11
its second annual Spr'
Fiesta and Lemon Fe
val in April. A banquet, coronation dance, Fi
Parade, Lemon Pie Contest, carnival and base
game were just a few of the events scheduled
the three-day celebration. The fiesta, sponsore
the Corona Recreation Department, again 11
the La Casita Recreation Center the recipien
its efforts in the hope that an appreciable adv
might be made in the immediate usability of
center.

Fiesta

RECREAT

    
   
   
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
  
    
 

Back to School—The Seventh Annual East—
1 n Cooperative Recreation School will be held on
re campus of the State School of Agriculture,
andolph Center, Vermont, August 10 to 24 in—
lusive. The school is open to volunteer and pro-
Lessional community leaders 'who are interested in
llk dancing and singing games, dramatics, social
Iusic and song leadership, games, group organi-
tion and the other courses that are offered.

ll The Gang Was All There—A program of
w usic and drama was presented by the Pasadena,
alifornia, Board of City Directors in observance
.' the silver anniversary of its Department of Rec-
ation in April. The executive council of the de-
mrtment of recreation, the civic auditorium and
epartment of recreation staffs, and the Pasadena
.4. Department cooperated in making the event
success.

" Convention in Canada—The National Con-
ntion of the Parks and Recreation Association
' a Canada will be held September 8-11.

I Club on Trial—Boys of Kingston, New York,
I" ganized a non—sectarian Boys’ Club for the benen
of those interested in art, craft, stamp and chess
ubs and outdoor sports. The club has been set
' a as a test to prove the theory that it is possible
- r an organization such as this to be self-support-
_ _; and self-disciplined. Other clubs will be or-
'_ nized in other locations in Kingston if satis-
tory results are obtained from this initial en-
avor.

  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
     
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
     
   

The Church’s Workshop——The First Presby-
ian Church of Wilson, North Carolina, held an
_ s-crafts workshop as a part of the observance
I _ National Religious Education Week. More than
0 members of the Sunday School and Church
. rticipated in the program. The workshop stressed
 types of social recreation and handcrafts such
i cooking, sewing, woodwork, needlecraft, metal-
_- ft and feltcraft, to name only a few.

On the Dance Floor—Dallas, Texas, reports
rly 5,000 persons attending a large, indoor
are dance held on the four acre dance floor in
' Agriculture Building at the Texas State Fair
rk. The number actually taking part in the
lCCS, about 2,500, came from Oklahoma, New

xico, Arkansas, Colorado and Louisiana. The
.Ir ce was sponsored by the Dallas Park and Rec—
I tion Department. ' “

GUST 1947

Tom Mix Campaigns for Safety—Radio’s
_. Tom Mix, hero of millions of children, will teach
his young listeners lessons in safety as a part of
the National Safety Council’s campaign to prevent
back to school accidents during the month of Sep-
tember. For the second successive year, during the
week of September 22-26, the sponsors of the Tom
Mix series will substitute safety messages and
dramatized stories in place of commercials. In ad-
dition to the program, there will be a special Tom
Mix Child Safety Poster for schools, youth or-
ganizations, clubs, bulletin boards, churches and
stores. Special “Home Safety Check Lists” will
be distributed to school children throughout the
nation and this material will be available to schools
and teachers and youth organization leaders free
of charge in any quantity desired, through the
local Mutual Broadcasting System affiliated radio

. station.

St. Paul Takes Stock—“Ernest‘W. Johnson
has recently completed a self-appraisal of public
recreation in St. Paul using as his measuring rod
the Schedule of Appraisal of Community Recrea-
tion of the National Recreation Association. The
study revealed that St. Paul is particularly de-
ficient in the following: design, construction and
maintenance, 50 percent; number and location of
playgrounds, 50 percent; number of employed
leaders, 58 percent; and current expenditures, 37
percent. St. Paul scored itself 41 out of a possible
42 points for training and qualifications of its em-
ployed leadership and 14 out of a possible 15 for
its training program. Indoor facilities were rated
38 out of a possible 50 points, total outdoor acre-
age 20 out of 30, program 74 out of 100, partici-
pation 62%; and administration 87%».

Teen-Age Recreation Directors—Teen-agers
were elected directors of Jefferson County, Ken-
tucky, recreation. It was all part of the “Director
for a Day” contest sponsored by the Jefferson
County Playground and Recreation Board. Each
teen-age club of the county nominated one mem-
ber for the director’s post and then started a con-
centrated membership drive to round up as many
youngsters as possible so as to have the largest
potential voting power. The two teen-agers polling
the most votes met with the Fiscal Court, took
care of regular appointments, had a luncheon en«
gagement, and filled the routine duties required of

I the recreation director and his assistant. At the
end of the day, they were asked to recommend
“ways and means of making teen-agers in Jeffer-
son County the happiest young people possible.”

261

Magazines and Pamphlet

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current interest to the Recreation Worker t

 

MAGAZINES

Children’s Religion, July 1947
Backyard Dramatics: Its Place in the Neigh'borh
Estelle Barnes Clapp

Public ll/Ianagement, June 1947

Some Effects of Population Changes on Municr
Services, Victor Roterus

Jewish Center Program Aids, June 1947

 first Choice
Close-up of the Lounge

for
Our Grandparents, 1947

  The Research Quarterly, May 1947
Hidden Possibilities for Research in Physical E
cation and Recreation, Florence Stumpf and Fr

   
     

 m."  .I-

 
 
 
  
 

Available erick W. Cozen's
Thru Leading Camping Magazine, June 1947
. Outdoor Education for San Di 0 Schools, Est
Athletic GOOdS Bristol cg

Fun Around the Camplire, II, A. H. Wyman
Control of Insects, Duncan E. Longworth
Develop Their Creative Ideas, II, Marion Trowbrid

 / o m o f Beach and Pool, May 1947
 “Every Bather a Swimmer,” Samuel L. Friedman

Distributors

i

‘ i

a
at? "N" ’NVFSJ' NV NV! Filip ! Basic Principles of Pool Design, Construction, 0'
unuuucwuma connmv o 51'. Louis 3. IRO- ation

   
    
 

Recent Developments and Ideas in Pool Sanita
and Design, Chauncey A. Hyatt

The lilunicipality (Wisconsin), June 1947

Parks and Recreation in Smaller Communiti
Jerome Dretzka

Bulletin of Canadian Association for Health, Phys

Education and Recreation
Industrial Recreation, Stanley Rough

American Library Association Bulletin, June 1947
Projected Books

Scholastic Coach, June 1947
Buyers’ Guide and Directory 1947

First ' ' '
Name 111 Trampolian Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1947
Presents The Veterans Administration Athletic Progr

MODEL 5000-T 3- E. Phillips

Aquatic Pageant Procedures, Lillian C. Burke
The Original-Advanced Our Australian Neighbors, G. M. Gloss

T R A M P o L I N E* The Rotarian, June 1947
Seven Acres of Fun
*Name TRAMPOLINE Reg. U. S. Pot. Office
Parks and Recreation, June 1947

'mproved—Reaned by Ten Years Vancouver—Playground of the Northwest. P.

DESIGN. TESTS and USE in Gyms and Stroyan

. I
Armed Forces—6+ Y's' [300'sI A New Neighborhood Park for Montreal, He

C d B h Teuscher
amps an eac es The American City, June 1947
FOLDS READlLY O EASlLY MOVED Are More Links Necessary, Syl Pointkowski

Schenectady Plans the Town of Tomorrow. \'i

NOW AVAILABLE at 5209'00 J. P. Blaine and James G. Shaw, Jr.

Complete—£03. Cedar Rapids, Iowa The Natio”:s Schools, July 1947
Write for Free Literature Tale of Two Cities—“Cincinnati, St. Louis

N I s s E N T R A M p o L  E Recreation for Adults, Too, Robert E. Link

School Life, July 1947
200A AVENUE NW' CEDAR RAPIDS' IO_WA Recreation Programs Encouraged Through Fe

Inter-Agency Committee, \Valter L. Scott

 

262 RECREAT I

 

r-
1*

Camping Magazine, May 1947

The Role of REAL Camping, Barbara E. Joy

Fun Around the Campfire, A. H. Wyman

A Realistic Approach to Nature Study, Jane] L.
Nickelsburg

Camp RiHery, Charles J. Barclay

Develop Their Creative Ideas, Marion Trowbridge

PAMPHLETS

Wood Carving for Pleasure, Western Pine Association
and Herbert Rayner

Western Pine Association, Yeon Building, Portland,
Oregon

Summer Day Camp—Suggestions on Standards, Program,
Camp Facilities, Administration

Chicago Park District, Division of Recreation, Chi-
cago, Illinois

Playground Manual
Recreation Department, Racine, Wisconsin

Playground Leader’s [Manual
Recreation Department, Akron, Ohio

Teen Canteens—Some Special Problems, Hazel Osborn

The Woman’s Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New
York 22, N. Y.

The World of Fan Series of Records for Folk Games

Methodist Publishing House, 810 Broadway, Nash—
ville 2, Tennessee

New South, June 1947 (Special quarterly number)

Southern Regional Council Inc., 63 Auburn Avenue,
N.E., Atlanta 3, Georgia

Alaster Plan of the Municipality of the City and County
of Saint John, N. 3., Canada ”

Town Planning Commission of City and County of
Saint John. N. B.. Canada

A Tennis Program for Elementary and Secondary Schools

K. J. Deimling, Sr., Chicago Tennis Association, 231
South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Ill.

Designing the Central School Plant as a Community Center
Planning the Indoor Physical Education Facilities for
Central Schools

Planning the Music Suite for Central Schools

Planning the Outdoor Physical Education Facilities for
Central Schools -

The University of the State of New York, State

Education Department, Division of School Build-
ings and Grounds, Albany 1, New York

I Established Camp Standards for Girl Scouts
i l

Troop Camp Standards for Girl Scouts
Trip Camp Standards for Girl Scouts

Day Camp Standards for Girl Scouts

Girl Scouts National Organization, 155 East 44th
Street, New York 17, N. Y. Price 10 cents each;

40 cents per set.

When You Grow Older, by George Lawton and Maxwell
S. Stewart. Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 131

Public Affairs Committee, 22 East 38th Street, New
York 16, N. Y. 20 cents

Sports, Physical Education and Recreation Film Guide

Business Screen Magazine and the Athletic Institute,
209 S. State Street, Chicago 4, Illinois. 50 cents

AUGUST 1947

 

 

  

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy’control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
O

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outtits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

DULUTH, MINN.

4610 GRAND AVENUE

SQIlJ/OI'
The PBUEEEDINES

ot the

ANNUAL CONVENTION
St. Louis' Mo.. April. I946

American Association for Health,
Physical Education and
Recreation

Condensations of division meetings, work-
shops, and general assembly addresses on
health, physical education and recreation.

 

Price S I .00

Order from the Association Office

l20| SIXTEENTH STREET, NW
WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

 

263

  

 

INew Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Aquatic Games - Pageants - S’run’rs
Beach and P00], 425 Fourth Avenue, New York 16, N. Y.

$2.50. $2.00 in lots of six or more.

HIS BROCHURE should be of great help to recreation

departments conducting [programs of water sports. It
contains a wealth of material on water pageants, carni-
vals, stunts and games, of value not only in helping to
build up attendance at swimming pools and beaches but in
developing an interesting breadth Of water activities.

The Y.M.C.A. and Public RecreationI

Informal Ecluca’rionI and Leisure-

Time Programs

By Helen E. Davis. Published under the auspices of the
Bureau of Records, Studies and Trends, National Board
of Y.M.C.A.’s. Association Press, New York, 1946.

DR. DAVIS, in the study which she made for the National

Board of Y.iM.C.A’s, reviews the historic develop-
ment of public recreation services, comparable develop-
ments in the Y.M.C.A. movement, and the history of the
growth of community chests and councils. The study of
the local relationships of the Y.M.C.A. and public recre-
ation program's covers cities from 100,000 to 600,000 pOpu-
, lation, with personal visits to 10 representative communi-
ties. The communities selected were Of various sizes in
different sections of the country and with recreation
programs of different degrees of adequacy and effective-
ness.

Throughout the report Dr. Davis emphasizes that there
is no inherent conHict whatever between public and pri-
vate agencies in recreation work and that no evidence of
any fundamental division was discovered in any personal
observation or in any material examined in the study.
Emphasis is placed on the fact that the real issue is how
the public and private agencies, separately and together,
can meet the total needs of the community. Dr. Davis
states that the lines dividing recreation workers into what
might “be considered _separate camps follow the degree of
professional training and viewpoint rather than any pat—
tern of public vs. private agencies. '

The study was carefully reviewed by a Review Com-
mittee of the Y.M.C.A. and Chapter X of this report is
devoted to the Review Committee’s statement. The Re-
view Committee comments on the factual material cov-
ered, Dr. Davis’ analysis of it, and presents 11 principles
of relationship between the Y.M.C.A. and public recrea~
tion agencies.

This study should prove to be very helpful to leaders in
the public recreation movement as well as in the Y.M.
CA. as much of the material is applicable to other com-
parable local relationships as well as to the Y.M.C.A.

Dance Rhythm Music

By Sally Baker Hewitt. Publisher: Miss Hewitt, 332
Edward Avenue, Jackson, Michigan. $1.00.

HIS IS AN ATTRACTIvE collection of 36 pieces of dance
rhythm music by Sally Baker Hewitt, accompanist for
modern dance classes at the Jackson High School and
Jtinior College, Jackson, Michigan. Included are Rhythmic

264

\Valtz, Hop, High Skip, Slide, Response to Syncopation,
Swing with Pull, Three Beat Swing, Four Beat Swing,
\Valk, and other frequently used steps and figures.

. The Party Table

By Margaret Powers. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria,
Illinois. $3.00. .

PARTY DECORATING can be fun once you’ve learned to

“make a party of making the makings.” The Party
Table is your shortcut to decorating magic. It offers new
ideas for table coverings, centerpieces, favors and place
cards, seasonal motifs and other festive details. The Jack
Horner pie, the 1beruf'fied nut cup and the candy corsage
are among the old favorites included. Instructions in this
craft work are concrete and adaptable to your own ideas
and distinctive taste. Illustrated how-it-looks drawings,
paragraph headings and a detailed index provide easily
accessible sources to party suggestion-s.

Horizon Club Program Book

Camp Fire Girl's, Inc., 88 Lexington Avenue, New York
16, N. Y. 70 cents

AMANUAL OUTLINING a 3—year program suitable for the

high school age girl. Full of clever sketches, charm
charts, interest finders, and suggestions f0r many types of
programs including home, community, and service proj-
ects. Leaders of youth groups and supervisors of girls’
and women’s programs will find this manual very helpful.
Also valuable for girls’ club leaders, and teen-age pro-
gram committees.

 

Officers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer I

GUSTAVUS T. KIRDY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEM IS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH. Englewood, N: J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore. _

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonvrlle, Fla.
\VILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y. ,
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, \Vest Orange, 1\. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRs. CHARLES'V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hlll, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N._Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me. '

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodburg, 1\. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N.  _
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco. Calif.

GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y. I ? ’
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, I\. ‘1 .
JOHN G. W'INANT, Concord, 1\. H.

RECREATIO

 

'

 

 

DEMOCRACY WILL BE
SAVED IN OUR SCHOOLS

Make your school outstanding as an experience in

“happy, profitable working-together”

Give your students and teachers these helps

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS—Current thought of leaders
in the fields of democratic group activities.

SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES—An assembly program for
each Week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic
productions.

CLASS ORGAN IZATION S—Directions for the success-
ful guidance of school groups.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES—Suggestions for financing
student functions.

ATHLETICS—News and ideas on late developments in
intramural and interscholastic sports.

DEBATE—Both sides of the current high school debate
question. '

DEPARTMENT CLUBS—Instructions and aids in the
directing of school clubs of all types.

HOME ROOMS—Ideas and plans for educative home
room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating
loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS—Guidance in the produc-
tion of school newspaper and yearbook.

PARTIES AND BAN QUETS—Suggestions for educa-
tive and wholesome social activities.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT—Sound direction in the
development of student sense of responsibility.

MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commence-
ment, point systems, etc.

Each month “School Activities” will bring you timely material by

authorities in these fields.

Subscription price $2.50
Subscribe N 020!

School Activities

1515 LANE STREET

TOPEKA, KANSAS

For Every Child

MUSIC of wind in the forest, soft sward of the meadow,

Snow-covered hills and quiet valleys,

Sea-gulls in flight, white heron in the marshes,

Sunlight through yellow leaves, mystic beauty of flowers,
Warm sun and pure air and vigor of growing bodies,

Love of parents and family joys and sorrows,

Carefree play and simple tasks of daily life,

Treasures hidden in books, ecstacy of expanding thoughts,
Thrill of achievement and strength from undaunted failure,
Faith in the Power guiding the universe,

All were created

For every child.

Emma Octavia ,Lundberg
“Unto the Least of These”

D. Appleton-Century

