TRECEATIN

  
   
  

1 . -li§;; ' all? ,
4g . Swazinna
- -  @rvvtinga

 
 

December I947
Price 35 Cem‘s

 

Contents

Ji- .9

J . I
u o .
4
d

December 

Eight Words, by Howard Brancher. . . . 409

Christmas in the Olden Time,

by Sir Walter Sco_tt . . . . . . . . . . I. . . . . 411
John Gilbert Winant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 412
Teamwork for ‘a. Healthy World,

by Dr. Henry S. Leiper . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
Recreation and the Atomic Age,

by Dr. William F. Russell. . . . . . . . . . 421
Quiz-mas Greetings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 425
Simple Rules for Good Pictures.  . .-=. . 426

Working at Play, by Dorothy B. Taaiie. 427

“What Other Schools Don’t Have,”
by Jean and Jess Ogden . . . . . . . . .' . . 429

The 1947 Recreation Congress . . . . . . . 432

How One Newspaper Serves  .
Community . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- 436

Community Houses in Small Towns . . . . 439

   
      
   
   
   
   
   

FRONTISPIECE——
On a snowy winter’s
night, citizens of
Milwaukee,Wiscon-

sin, gather ’round
their lighted com-
munity tree to pay
homage to the
Christmas spirit.

 

 

4;

PICTURE CREDITS—-We are indebted to the Milwaukee Recrea-
tion Department for the illustration on page 410; the Madison
Square Boys Club for “skat'ing on'roof-tops” on page 414; the U. S.
Forest Service for those of skiing on page 414; Bear Mountain
State Park for that of tobogganing on page 414; Ewing GaIIOWay,
N. Y., for that on page 415; the Red Cross for the photograph by
Wallace on page 426 and for that on page 428; Tommy Weber,
N. Y., for that on page .432 and the square dancing picture on page
433; Sonny Sereduke fer the “quiet chat” photograph on page 433.

If
'5'

Industrial Recreation and Community

Relations, by Clayton L. Perreault. . . 445
In the Field . . . Arthur H. Jones. f.  . 447

American Institute Park Executives. . . . 453

Charles S. Weston . . . . . .  . . . . . ._ .  L. . 
59°45  . .

King WintersTakes‘Oyer . . . . . . . . . . .. 414
You Can Never Tell ’Til You Try. . . .. 415

Changes in the; 1948 Rules for Softball. 420

Skiing a Part of School Curriculum,
by Martha Mann . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . 424

h “A Free-For-All” Becomes a Sport,

by Lee Lindberg . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 443

.1

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437

Recreation Institutes . . . . . . . .2'. . . . . . . 449

The Postman Brings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4351

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 453

Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 45 s

 
 

M E M O -— M a k e
your Christmas
shopping easy. Add
gift-subscriptions to
RECREATION to your
list and let it help
you tell the story of
recreation to your
community.

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association. formerly named Playground and Recreatio
Association of America. a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue. New Yor
10. N. Y.: is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a it“. Entered as second
class matter June 12, 1929. at the Post Ofiice in New York. New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance fo

mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October}. 1917, authorize

d May 1. .1924.

J

'1» -

Copyright 1947. by the National Recreation Association,"incorporated
. PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTYaONE. NUMBER NINE

Recreation v

 

in December 1947

 

IN MY NOTEBOOK for the last twelve months have been the follow-

ing words which have been to me more than words:

'Truth—rightness
Understanding
Appreciation of beauty
Power to do

Comradeship
I Knowledge
0 - Health
 Wealth
 I amuse myself on the train, in the subway crowd, in thinking

over the day, the week, the month, in terms of these, in thinking of

this person or that according as one or more of these holds the center.

Most of what men strive for, care for, is found under one of
these. Food, water, clothing, shelter, of course—but these in our
country are now fairly well taken for granted, and for many almost

forgotten. Under wealth luxuries rather than necessities are thought

of today.

What matters? What is the order of importance? Man is that
kind of being which plays, loves, worships. What are the altars We

have established? What considerations after all rule our actions,

make our decisions?

In one mood comradeship, including community of feeling with
mankind as a whole and with the universe, moves up to the head of
the list; in another mood beauty; in another understanding seems

first, before knowledge or anything else.

For the year as a whole no one of the first six can stand by
itself; all stand together.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

EIGHT WORDS—Written as a Christmas message in 1928. Reprinted because of its special meaning at this time.

 

 

December

RECREATION

 

From: CHRISTMAS IN THE OLDEN TIME

Heap on more wood! The wind is chill;
But let it whistle as it will,

We’ll keep our Christmas merry still,
Each age has deem’d the new-born year
The fittest time for festal cheer.

On Christmas Eve the bells were rung;
On Christmas Eve the Mass was sung.
That only night in all the year

Saw the stoled priest the chalice rear.
The damsel donn’d her kirtle sheen,
The hall was dress’d with holly green.
Forth to the wood did merry men go
To gather in the mistletoe.

Then came the merry masquers in,

And carols roar’d with blithesome din.

If unmelodious was the song,

It was a hearty note, and strong.

But 0! what masquers, richly dight,

Can boast‘of bosoms half so light?

England was merry England when

Old Christmas brought his sports again.
’Twas Christmas broach’d the mightiest ale;
’Twas Christmas told the merriest tale;

A Christmas gambol oft could cheer

The poor man’s heart through half the year.

-—SIR WALTER SCOTT
(17 7 1-1832)

DECEMBER 1947 41 ]

 

 

ll HEREVER I MAY BE, this is forever home

Wto me.”

Those were the words of John Gilbert
VVinant in a brief farewell speech before leaving
Concord, New Hampshire, in 1941 to assume the
duties of wartime Ambassador to Great Britain.
Mr. W inant, after a notably glorious career, died
on November 3, 1947, in his much beloved home
in Concord at the age of fifty-eight.

Mr. W inant had been a member of the Board of
Directors of the National Recreation Association
since 1926, a Vice-President since 1928, and First
Vice—President since 1937. He was present at
meetings as often as his travels and his crowded
life would permit. He addressed the National
Recreation Congress gatherings on three occasions
and shared helpfully in the planning of the Asso—
ciation’s work even when his official duties kept
him away for long periods of time. His belief in
the recreation movement was profound. To him it

was a matter of primary importance not only to
the United States, but to the world.

412

JOHN '
GILBERT
WINANT

  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

In his youth he was fascinated by the study 0
history and government. He had in his heart .
natural love for the common people. He became .
crusader in their behalf. From the start, the under
lying motive of his life was to aid humanity an
to stimulate human progress. His service as .
flyer in the first World War broadened his under
standing of people. Seeing first-hand the traged
of war, he developed an intense desire to do all h
could in his lifetime for peace.

As Governor of New Hampshire, he was deepl
concerned with the recreational welfare of the peo
ple and was successful in arousing conviction amon
leaders in the state as to the importance of recrea
tion. He brought about improvements in the lim
ited ocean beach area of the state so that it migh
better serve the people. He found that most water
front properties around New Hampshire’s fres
water lakes were in private ownership. He wante
to preserve for the recreational use of the commo
people a generous part of these shores. As a re
sult, the state acquired and improved some of th
shore areas, and there are now numerous. fin
beaches distributed throughout the commonwealth
He encouraged skiing in the New Hampshir
mountains. Many miles of excellent ski trails wer
built and are used freely by New Hampshire citi
zens and by ski enthusiasts from great distances
Governor VVinant fostered a movement to brin
greater recreational opportunities, including music
to the people in rural parts of the state. Musi
festivals were held in which various racial group
sang their native songs, attired in homemade na
tional costumes. Hymn festivals of combined con
gregations were held in rural areas. He promote
traveling libraries. He improved the recreationa
welfare of children in orphanages and other insti
tutions. He encouraged New Hampshire folk t
revive the old-time arts of pottery, glass makin
and cabinet work for which their ancestors wer
famous. The common people of the state looke
upon him as a great and good friend.

Mr. VVinant’s success in social reform and hi
sound reputation for nonpartisanship, fairness an

RECREATIO

I

mpartiality resulted in his appointment as Chair-
4 n of the Social Security Board in this country
d as Director of the International Labor Oflice
F Geneva. He recognized the values in the pre-
I ar recreation programs of Italy, Germany and
I-'. ussia, but he regarded freedom as the only last-
' g foundation on which wise national recreation
" ograms can be built. In his work at Geneva,
'e did everything in his power to stimulate interest
n recreation and to encourage the adequate facing
f leisure-time problems.
As W’orld War II became imminent, with its
mplication of impending fundamental social
I ange in England, it was not surprising that our
vernment should choose as its representative in
. ondon a man of Mr. Winant’s liberal background
- nd intimate acquaintance with British lab'or lead-
rs. In February 1941, Mr. Winant was appointed
Ambassador to the Court of St. James, a post he

eld all through the period of the war and until
1946. The N ew York Times said, editorially,
“Mr. W'inant seems pretty clearly to have been

hosen as an Ambassador not only to the govern-
. ent but to the people of Great Britain.”

In December 1946, in recognition of his wartime
ervices as Ambassador, Mr. Winant received from
l e British government one of its highest honors,
H e Honorary Order of Merit. The London Times,
ommenting on his services as Ambassador, said,
I The manifest sincerity of this large, shy and
r uiet-voiced man drew together the ties of friend-
hip between the two countries. . . . It was not

Ir. Winant who turned the cooperation of the
nglish-speaking peoples into the most intimate
lliance recorded in history, but it was Mr. Winant
'ho established and sustained the background of

utual understanding in the present and the iden-,

'ty of aim for the future which made such inti-
acy possible.”
It was characteristic of Mr. Winant that with
.:11 the pressure the war put upon him, he kept the
ational recreation movement in this country close
a his heart. In 1943, in the midst of the war, he
‘ rote from London, “The time that I have spent
u England makes me feel more than ever the im—
ortance of the work being done by the National
ecreation Association. It seems to me that what
11 r national recreation movement is doing now is
sential in our war effort because it contributes
my morale and the health and well-being of the
n mmunity. I am much concerned that in the
u riod following the war the Association should be
. . strong as possible to- help with the problems of
F ing, including recreation, which must receive
.1 tention then.”

r ECEMBER 1947

I-
L

The following year, still under heavy war pres-
sure, Mr. Winant took time to send a special mes-
sage from England to the children on the play-
grounds of America, reminding them that their
happiness on the playgrounds would lighten the
load of their fathers and brothers on the battle-
fields of the world. “They will know you are liv-
ing the kind of life for which they are fighting and
that you, too, will become the kind of men and

women that will keep America a much beloved
land.”

After he had retired as Ambassador, Mr.
Winant was appointed by President Truman to
represent the United States on the EconOmic and
Social Council of the United Nations. In Decem-
ber 1946, after ten years of government service at
home and abroad and“ with much of the basic work
of the Council finished, he sent a letter to the Pres-
ident requesting that his resignation be accepted,
adding, “I would like to be free to pick up life
again as a private citizen in my own country.”
Before his resignation was announced publicly,
Mr. Winant stated that he wanted, among other
things, to give more time to the work of the Na—
tional Recreation Association.

Mr. W inant was a man of genuine greatness of
spirit. He believed in a God of the Universe and
in human rights. He possessed no gift of oratory,
but in his speaking he had an intense sincerity
which carried his audiences along with him. He
was personally shy, but he was courageous in ac-
tion. Liberal and independent in his thinking,
judicial in his attitude toward public questions, he
was an upholder of rigorous honesty in public
administration at every level of government. “The
great mass of common men the world over,” said
Mr. \Vinant soon after reaching England in 1941,
“wants a friendly, civilized world of free peoples in
which Christian virtues and moral values are not
spurned.”

Among the many public tributes to Mr. Winant
when he retired from the'ambassadorship in 1946
was one by Winston Churchill, who said, “He is
a friend of Britain, but he is more than a friend of '
Britain . . . he is a friend of justice,_freedom and
truth.” The Secretary of the Trades Union Con—
gress, on behalf of its 6,500,000 members, pre-
sented the retiring Ambassador with the Gold
Badge of the Trades Union Congress and said,
“We know you to be a straight guy.”

In the words of'The New ark Times: “Here
was a man who truly loved mankind and tried all
his life to make the lot of his fellowmen better and
happier. His effort will inspire others who tread
the same hard path.”

413

 

Whii'e slopes lure +oboggan em‘husiam‘s *

King Winter
Takes 0ver.

     

Our parks are +urned in’to wim‘er wonderlands

Some cify boys can +ake +heir ska’res +0 +he roof-bps

414 RECREATIO

 

You Can Never
Tell ’Til You Try

AVE YOU EVER tried figure skating? Have you
H ever followed the sound of ringing steel on

. ice, and stopped to admire a figure grace-
fully circling and swooping before your eyes?
Haven’t you wished, just a little, that you could
do it too? How do you know that you can’t?
Actually, you know, you don’t have to be a Sonja
Henie to do some of the simpler figures for your
own amusement. If you can skate in a straight
line, why not branch out into a few curves just for
the fun of it? You’ll find that each.curve adds to
your confidence on the ice, and that the feeling of
accomplishment is exhilerating. If you think you
are too stiff or too old and that such antics should
be left to the young, don’t let that seventy-year-
old performer out there on the'ice hear you. If
he does, your face will be red—and not from the
cold, either.

One of the nice things about figure skating is
that it is something that you can enjoy alone as
well as with others; furthermore it can be one of
the least expensive of sports. The only equip-
ment necessary is a good pair of skates. Figure
skates are a good investment because they are
especially easy to manage for either plain or,ligure
skating. They are constructed lower than other
types of skates, thus bringing the foot nearer the
ice and making the skates easy to manage. The
blades are slightly curved, with jagged points at
the toe, and are ground concave, with sharp edges.
It is these edges that make hgure skating possible.

If you are choosing a new pair, be sure the boots
fit, for the better they lit the less cumbersome your

DECEMBER 1947

 

Don't let this discourage you . . .

skates will feel and the less awkward you will be
on the ice. Wear the shoes over ordinary stock-
ings. W’oolen socks take up too much Space and
are apt to cause numbness and cold. See that the
shoe is snug around the heel and ankle, and that
it leaves just enough room for toe-wiggling. This
will assure you of adequate circulation and
warmth.

Having acquired the equipment, take yourself
to the pond in the dell, or to the nearest rink, look
for a stretch of ice where you are not apt to be
run down, and make a start. You will soon be
assured of the fact that early progress is accom-
plished quickly. Skate around a few times to get
used to the blades. Lean out on each stroke, so
that you are skating on the outside edge of your
skate. You’ll see that it curves out. The inside
edge would curve in. Now you will be ready to
learn your school figures!

Terms

A few simple terms with which you should be
familiar are:

Tracing or print—the mark left by the skate on the ice.

Retracing—the superimposing of identical tracings over
each other.

Skating foot or leg, employed foot or leg or tracing foot
or leg—the foot or leg that is on the ice.

Free or unemployed foot or leg—the foot that is off the
ice,

School fignres—standard figures which are basic to all
figure skating.

415

Free skating—any combination of skating steps and m0ves
such as dance steps, jumps. spins, etc.

Skating to center—returning to the starting point of any
figure.

lit—toward the center of a circle.

Out—toward the outside of a circle, away from the
center.

C hacking—a temporary checking of the movement of the
body against the direction of motion.

School Figures

These consist of tracings made on the ice, are
done in figure eight form, and are performed on
the outside and inside edges of your skates, both
forward and backward. They are the most im-
portant part of figure skating, and in addition to
developing sureness and poise, they give a control
of the body that the skater can achieve in no other
way. Therefore, the learning and perfecting of
school figures cannot be overemphasized. They
should be practiced every time you are on the ice.

Forward Outside 8

Start from a dead stop (for all school figures)
with but a single stroke. This is important. Hold
right arm across your chest, feet with your right
heel pointing to your left instep and held a few
inches away. You are standing at the very center
of your figure 8. Put your weight on your left
inside edge, bending the left knee well.' (Try this
standing position at home. It’s very simple.) Your
back is toward the circle you are going to start.
Push off with the left inside edge; right knee
should be well bent. The left skate leaves the ice,
and the left leg hangs behind the left heel; the left
hand is held behind.

You begin to travel in a circle to your right.
Gradually straighten the skating knee, keeping the
body erect, back straight, and the weight over the
heel of the skate. As you start, your right shoulder
and arm are leading. As you reach about halfway
of your circle, you gradually bring the free arm
and leg slowly forward and the right arm grad-
ually backward. Your arms and feet will be almost
ready to pass each other. Gradually continue the
rotation of your body so that by the time you reach
the point from which you started your left, or free,
arm, shoulder and leg will be ready to lead, right
arm down and back. You are now in position for
the second half of your figure 8.

Do not stop, but let the left foot swing slightly
behind the right and then forward as you shift the
weight of the right foot to the inside edge for the
push-off to the left outside edge. Skate the second
circle to the left and you have completed your
figure.

416

A Few Hints

1. Don’t worry too much about a complete circle at first.
Practice the take-off for a time, getting the feel of a
circle.

2. Though you may be better on one foot than on the
other, learn everything for Iboth feet. Practice hardest
with the most difficult one.

3. Try to make your circles six feet or more in diameter.
Repeat the entire figure two or three times continu-
ously, retracing as closely as possible.

4. Let your body rotate in the direction of motion. A
skater skates with his body as much as with his feet.
Avoid flourishing of arms.

5. Be sure to bend your knees, and avoid jerky move-
ments.

After you accomplish the first figure, practice it
continually; never drop it even though you go on
to other figures for you can never be too good.
You will no doubt find friends on the ice Who are
willing and anxious to teach you further figures
when you are ready. If not, there are many books
which explain the simpler, or more complicated
maneuvers. Get a copy to look over, and—good
luck to you!

 

 

"Francis Wickersham Parker, Jr.—ydu probably know him—
was in this morning, and he gave me to understand that the
swings in the Seventy-second Street playground are in bad
condition. NowI I always say that a city administration that
can't run a playground . . ."

—By permission. Copyright The New Yorker Magazine, Inc.

RECREATION

 

Dr. Henry S. Leiper

N OUR KIND OF WORLD there is more need than
I ever before for the proper development of rec-

reation facilities and services.

\Nhat I want to do now is to point out the
relationship between the things which you are
doing and what I believe to be the major strategy
in a world which is in a crisis more serious than
most of us realize. Personally, I do not think
any words that we can use can exaggerate the
seriousness of this world situation. I was in nine-
teen countries last year, and know of no country
where the people who really are aware of what is
happening feel any assurance whatever about the
immediate future. I am not a pessimist, but I do
believe in being a realist, and I
must say I think that we need
to relate the things that we do

TEAMWORK FOR A
HEALTHY WORLD *

also means wholeness; in another sense. Common
unities make communities, and a community
which has common unity is held together in a

'way which integrates its many-sided activities and

results in what we call social health.

Now, the thing which I believe most pro-
foundly, as a result of about thirty years of travel-
ing around this world and seeing many of its
nations, from the inside as well as from the out-
side, is that we today confront problems too big
for the intelligence of any of us, because there
are so many aspects of our world that are
different from any world that was ever known
before, and they have come upon us so suddenly
that they lead us to confusion.
° There are at least six revolu-
tions taking place simultaneously

most earnestly to that which
matters most, in trying to have
some kind of world in which
there can be any healthy people
or any communities in the near
future.

Now, it is an interesting thing
that many of our words, be-
cause we don’t go back into their
history, leave us without as
much enlightenment as they

might bring us if we studied .

Throughout the meetings at
the 1947 Congress emphasis
was placed upon the tremen-
dous contribution which rec-
reation can and must make to
the world of today. On these
pages is presented the address
of Dr. Henry S. Leiper, Exec-
utive Secretary for the Ameri-
can Committee for the World
Council of Churches, who in-
terpreted this contribution in
its broadest sense. Said Dr.
Leiper, “We need to relate
the things that we do most
earnestly to that which mat-
ters most.”

in the world today, and they are
all interrelated. .

The great Lecomte du Nouy;
whose book, “Human Destiny,”
I hope many of you have read,
says, “We are now in a revolu-
tion on the scale of evolution
going on in our world,” and

’ parts of it relate to the kind of

thing with which you are very
definitely concerned.
I want to try to show you, at

them from the point of view of
their origins.
| Let us think about teamwork
for world health. The word “health,” as it origi-
nated, is a word meaning wholeness, or whole.
You read in the stories of the healings in the
lNew Testament that Jesus “made him whole.”
He restored the integrity of his bodily mechanism.
F'He was made well. He was made whole.. The
I'word “health” was “whole” originally, and by
' gradual changes came to be the word which we
lnow have quite disassociated in our minds from
"‘wholeness,” excepting that technically we know
that a whole person is a person whose whole
organism is integrated and related as it should be.
It is very interesting that the word “com—-
munity,” which we use so much, is a word which

1 DECEMBER 1947

l

 

 

 

least from the point of view of
one person, what some of those
relationships are. I suppose you
have meditated on the fact that every great dis-
covery of modern science, no matter what it is,
represents the extension and development and en-
largement of some one of those engines, or organs,
of the physical body with which you are dealing
when you are dealing with recreation. Every ma-
chine in the world is simply the extension of the
power of the human hand, the human arm. Every
machine that makes man swift in his transport,
whether by land or by sea, is in some sense the
extension of the power of walking, the power of
locomotion, or the power of swimming, or what-
ever you want to think of in the way of trans-
portation. Physically, we originally were limited

417

to our four limbs and our senses.

Every development that has to do with seeing,
whether it is television or a telescope, or anything
else, is an extension of the power of the eye. The
telephone, this microphone, everything else that
has anything to do with hearing and Speech is the
extension of the power of speech and hearing. All
the great bombs and explosives are tremendous
build-ups of our power for smashing with a stick
or stone.

In other words, there is nothing man has dis-
covered that isn’t in some way related to the

extension of his physical powers, but he hasn’t .

yet discovered how to control those powers in a
way commensurate with their enormous increase
in our time. He has got just the same kind of
conscience he had before, and he has the same
tendency to self—interest, the same tendency to
blindness as to what his enlightened self-interest
does include, and he is pretty much the same sort
of a person he was when the fastest thing in the
world was a horse, and the most powerful thing in
the way of destruction was a bow and arrow.

You realize, I am sure, that now we are in a
world where people, for the first time, have been
able to generalize the power to commit suicide.
The_ power to commit suicide has always resided
in every human being, and, unfortunately, many
pe0ple have used it. That power of suicide was
always an individual matter. Now it is a racial
matter, and the race has the power, literally, to
commit suicide.

Furthermore, many other things have developed
which are putting a terrible strain on our im-
aginations. There never was any need to hold
this world together until recently, because many
parts of it didn’t even know that other parts
existed.

Some of you remember the book, “Wind, Sand
and Stars,” by the French aviator, Antoine de
Saint-Exupery. The author says, in a letter to
an American friend which was found in his kit
after he lost his life in a bombing raid, “Look,
my American friend, something new is happening
in our planet. We are bound together‘ like the
cells in the same body. Intercommunications are
instantaneous, but this body does not have a soul.”

That, in the poetic way, is a statement of the

world problem. We have a physical neighborhood .

for the first time in human history. The world is
interconnected. I was in Calcutta, for example,
when a certain price level changed in Wall Street,
and two and one-half hours later it changed there.
A thing like that we take for granted, but if you
stated to Christopher Columbus that the time

418

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

would come when the price of things in that India
for which he was looking when he bumped into
America would some day change within two-and
one-half hours of the change in prices of this
country which he had discovered, he would look
at you in great disdain.

The point is, of course, that here you have this
terribly compact neighborhood of the world in
which there is no genuine sense of common unity.
There is no sense of interdependence, interrelated-
ness. “Those damn foreigners,” you hear in one
voice, in one language or another, over and over
the world. “If it weren’t for those people, we’d
be all right now.”

What I want to point out is this: that the
thing that you are working with in the deveIOp-
ment of the community spirit is the greatest inven-
tion of man in the social area. I don’t know
whether you have ever noticed it or not, but if
you go down through history, I think you will
find it true that no city nor any nation has ever
destroyed itself completely from within. Where
there has been complete destruction of a city or a
state or‘a nation, it has come, at least in part,
from without.

Why doesn’t a community destroy {itself from
within? For the same reason that the thugs in
the City of New York don’t want to'wipe out
New York, because if they did, there wouldn’t
be any place for them to gang up. They’d have to
go to Chicago.’ In other words, self-interest of
a certain type—and everybody is endowed with it.
Jesus, Himself, said, “Thou shall love thy neigh-
bor as thine self.” If you don’t have self-love,
you have no love to use on your neighbor. In
other words, the kind of self-interest which is
justified, and which God put within every living
being, makes that“ person aware that he has a stake
in his community and that if he doesn’t look out
for that community, then something that he doesn’t
want to have happen will happen to him.

Let me give you an illustration. So many people
make the mistake of thinking a community is just
a place Where people happen to be fairly near
together. That isn’t it at all. That is just a
neighborhood in the most casual sense. Suppose
tonight every single person in the great City of
New York should be, by magic, moved to the
other side of the earth and the same number of
people from every nation in the world, Speaking
all the languages of the world and with all the
ways and customs of the world, should be brought
in their place and put in the same houses an
apartments. What would you have when the sun
comes up tomorrow morning? You wouldn’t hav

RECREATIO

any community. You wouldn’t have any common -

unities. You would have the most indescribable
chaos. No ant hill that you ever dug into would
hold a candle to what you’d have here in New
York! There would be the most incredible chaos
at every point. There wouldn’t be any order, any
traffic on the streets. The people that had always
gone to the left would go to the left, and those
who had gone to the right would go to the right.
They’d run into each other. There wouldn’t be
any policemen, any law, any courts. There
wouldn’t be any transportation, any business, any
banks, any hospitals. There wouldn’t be any rec-
reation. There wouldn’t be any opportunity for
any of these things. There would be no common
language of any kind.

In other words, all the common unities which,
despite our selfishness and our differences and our
conHicts and our frictions, nevertheless hold us
t0gether as a pretty definite community that
doesn’t even contemplate destroying itself from
within, would have disappeared. You would have
a group of people who would set about destroying
themselves pretty rapidly, because the predatory
minority would have absolutely nothing to hold
them in check, and it would be a long time before
they even had a common language in terms of
which to communicate with each other.

That may seem like a ridiculous sort of illustra—
tion, but it isn’t as ridiculous as it may sound.
That is about what we have in the world now.
We have people who don’t understand each other,
or speak the same language, or follow the same
views, or play by the same rules, all jammed into
the same playground, and, of course, there is a
devil of a row. There naturally would be.

You know perfectly well that you can’t have a
game without common rules. You can’t have co-
operation anywhere apart from common principles.

There is absolutely no way by which you can

.run traffic on a street in a city without some
- common code, because if I just drive where I like
. and you drive where you like, and nobody has
, any rules of any kind, chaos results. You not only
lose your liberty to drive, you lose your life and
probably take the life of your neighbor in the
lprocess.

I All of that is simply by way of suggesting that
l,if we are going to have any community in the
world, it is going to be on the basis of certain
lcommon unity, certain common rules. We can’t
. play a game without them. The problem is to
;'find what those basic rules are.

Actually, there are convictions, deep down in

f the minds and hearts and consciences of, people
I -
i'bDECEMBER 1947

ll

everywhere as to what is right and wrong. One ‘of
the strange things about this present world situa-
tion to me is that you take a group of Russian
people, for instance, and a group of American
people, disassociate them from their politics and
their economic ideas, and put them together in a
playground—and I have been with many of them
in Russia—and you find them getting along to-
gether famously. Why? Because there they have
set aside their theoretical differences. They both
enjoy the same type of things, music, rhythm;
they enjoy rigorous, healthy sports—and the same
goes for pretty nearly any race I have ever known.

Recreation, the thing we have as our concern
in this particular conference, is one of the most
universal things in the world, and we need to
stress universals now separately, because only
those things which are of universal significance fit
a 'world Community. Things that are purely na- ‘
tional, purely racial, things that are purely con—~
nected with some one class, some one culture, do
not fit the world community. They may have to
be fitted into it, of course, but the things that
really natively fit the world neighborhood and
make it into a community are things that are uni—
versal, and you, who are supplying recreation, are
dealing .with one of those great universals.

So many people don’t take seriously what is
happening in the world today. So many people
have to be urged and coddled into taking any
thought whatever, even for the starving millions
across the world—and having seen many of those
starving millions, I know they are not being con-
jured up by somebody’s imagination.

In India, for example, tonight, there isn’t even
one pound of food per person for the four hundred
million people'there. You and I consumed today
the equivalent of at least 3,500 calories, but they,
in India will get less than one thousand tomorrow,
if they get anything.

As I say, there are a lot of people who don’t
take any of these things seriously. There are-a
lot of people who make you pessimistic because
they don’t want to play the game, or want to
play just their own game.

But I think that we are dealing with the great
potential when we are dealing with that which
makes for health, whether in the physical organism
or the mind or conscience. We are making things
that really go deep down into the very soil of the
earth and the roots from which the great growth
of the future must come when we are dealing
with things that have to do with community, be—
cause community is the one thing that can save
this world from destroying itself. If it can achieve

419

the sense of common unity with this physical
neighborhood that is already here, then it will
have at least the same measure of protection that
a great city like New York already has. They
don’t even get scared of Brooklyn in this city!
Because, when they get all over kidding each
other and playing baseball series and so on, they
know they are part of the same major community.
Their interests are intertwined. A common unity
does link them as a whole, and the health of the

total commi‘mity, the total neighborhood of Greater _

New York, is the concern of all right-thinking
people in both boroughs, in all the boroughs.
Let me conclude with a little illustration that
came from a vice-president of your organization.
I went into the office of Ambassador Winant in
London just before the invasion. Of course, I
didn’t know it was just before the invasion, but it
happened to be. As I went in, General Eisen—
hower came out; and as I was talking with
Ambassador Winant, he said to me, “I wish you
could have heard what General Eisenhower was
telling us about the way he was going to get all

Changes inthe 1948
Rules for Softball

URING THE MEETING of the International Joint
Rules Committee on Softball, held on Sep—
tember 18, 1947 in Cleveland, Ohio, the following
important changes were made in the softball rules
for the year of 1948:

1. The limits of the playing field were defined and no
player will be permitted to go beyond the playing limits
of the field to make an out.

2. The base lines from home to first and home to third
will be 60 feet instead of 55 feet.

3. The distance from home to second base will be 84
feet 10% inches.

4. The pitcher will be permitted to wear the same color
Uniform as other members of the team.

5. The catcher will not 1be permitted to go outside the
line of the catcher’s box in order to assist the pitcher in
giving an intentional pass on balls. (The old rule required
that the catcher be immediately behind the batter at home
plate.)

The Joint Rules Committee adopted a Consti—
tution and By-Laws which require a two-thirds
majority vote of the members of the Committee
before any major change can hereafter be made in
the rules governing softball.

The International Joint Rules Committee on
Softball has now authorized the translation of the
softball rules into Greek and Spanish, and a re-

420

  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

these many different factors that are involved in
the invasion worked together into an orderly
whole.” He went on, “One of the men was so
filled with admiration as the General described
his plans, he said, ‘General, it’s marvelous the way
you are getting all these teams to work together.’
Eisenhower swung around and brought his hand
down on the desk and replied, ‘One team, sir, or
we are going to fail in this invasion.’ ”

We must try to develop that team Spirit of
wholeness in our nation, in our world. And I
don’t believe that anybody in the world, philoso-
pher, preacher, poet, or anybody else, can deal
with it in more basic ways than you do when you
help to get people over their sense of racial
difference, by cultivating within them that which
God put there, that love of play, that love of
sportsmanship, that love of cooperation, that love
of self-emulation, even in the interest of the team,
and I welcome myself to this great Association as
one of the factors, one of the many factors, in the
building of what I trust will yet be the world
community of tomorrow.

quest has been made to translate them into Danish.
Letters coming from Australia, Japan, the Philip—
pines, China, South America, and other parts of
the world indicate that softball is encircling the
globe.

 

EXTRA! . . . Election Returns

E. Baton Rouge Parish. Louisiana. “Two impor—
tant referendum authorizations were voted by over—
whelming majorities (1) $1,000,000 bond issue
(2) .6 mill tax for maintenance and operation.”

NorwoodI Ohio. “Recreation tax levy increasing
budget to $32,000 passed by 66% of total votes.”

WilliamsportI Pennsylvania. Word has been re—
ceived through the Lycoming County Community
Chest that voters, in the recent election, approved
a bond issue of two million dollars for school build-
ings which are being planned for use as community
recreation centers.

San Francisco, California. Telegram received
states: “Twelve million dollar recreation bond is-
sue overwhelming victory here. Yes—172,708, N0
-—51, 546. Proposal to merge Park and Recreation
Commissions defeated. Consider this significan
of public’s appreciation of recreation services.”

RECREATIO

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
 
   
 
   

Dr. William F. Russell

world. Hiroshima gave the coup de grace to

the idea that we might go back to an old
world, to a time of normalcy, that we had just
turned a corner.

There was a lecturer up at my College the other
day whose ideas shocked me. He was not an idle
theorist. He has had long experi-
ence with radium; he is the presi-

business is to supply uranium; he
has had intimate connection with
the production of the atom bomb
and the varied experiments in
connection with fission and atom-
splitting. His exposition of the
subject was fantastic. I shall not
quote him. I shall merely give
the impression that he made on
me; and I may say that I am not
overly impressionable by lectures.
He started with a statement
from a Russian scientist who had
stated that to speak of atomic energy in terms of
the atom bomb was the same as to talk of elec-
iicity in terms of the electric chair. He stated
at atomic energy for commercial use was an ac-
domplished fact; that one pile had been operating”
r three years under complete control; that the
pense of heat, light, and power from this source,
ready quite low, would in short time be so low
to make these costs negligible; that the sources
f such power in the U.S.A. today were far
eater than the total oil reserve of the U.S.A.
is predictions went beyond the bounds of belief.
the future, power, light and heat would be
out as cheap as water, sunlight and air; and as
result, manufactured goods would be available to

Columbia

e have heard that, in Hiroshima, all the crops
V ere wonderful this year, bigger and more fruit-
1 than ever before. Our lecturer stated that with

O
m
g
on
E3
5
3

i . .
THERE IS NO‘DOUBT that we are entering a new
|

dent of a company whose main Dr- William F- Russell,
Dean of Teachers College.

University, in
this address to the Con-
gress, interprets the age in
which we live, its growing
needs for more recreation

and explains how we can
face the future by studying
trends from the past. He
states that the atomic age
. increasingly will mean few-
er hours of work, more
and more hours of leisure.

 

1 at prices so low as to be within reach of all. “

c/go (“far
WWI/e; 

\

RECREATION AND
THE ATOMIC AGE

atomic energy, plants would grow bigger and
faster, so that a revolution in world agriculture
was in prospect. Similarly, experiments in animal
growth, both in size and speed, indicate that with
the proper application of atomic energy, animals
will grow bigger, quicker. Preliminary experi-
ments in health indicate less disease, longer life,
and habitation possible in previ-
ously unfavorable sections of the
globe. The desert can be made to
blossom like the rose, arctic
climes made habitable, and weath-
er and climate can be bent to
human control.

I do not say that I_ believe all
this. I do not vouch for the ac-_
curacy of the facts, or the deduc-
tions or the predictions. But dis-
count it 50% or 90%, and you
still must admit that we are going
into a vastly changed world.

I do not know how many of you
have read the book “I Remember
Distinctly,” the picture book of what went on in
the 1920’s and 1930’s, the changes in costume,
Lindbergh, Peaches Browning, the Hall-Mills case
and the income tax blank of 1931. If anyone at
that time had predicted where we are today, the
cost of steak, meatless days, and the like, he would
have been considered crazy. So what the future
holds, say in 1960 or 1970, is dangerous to pre-
dict. Who can say when atomic energy will have
peacetime application. Yet we know that England
and France today are suffering for want of coal,
oil and manure. With plenty of all three, there
would be no problem for next winter. You and I
know that uranium piles could supply the heat and
power. needed; we have been assured that atom
treated fertilizers and foods could vastly increase
the supplies of meat and meal and flour. Possibly
future generations will write of our times that
back in those days, in the late 1940’s and the early

421

I950’s, part of mankind was still cold in winter
and underfed. Then he had inadequate housing.
In those days, the average length of life was only
about sixty years. There was lots of illness, death
rates were extraordinarily high, and. too much
had to go to hOSpitals and medical service. Build-
ing was slow and very expensive; and many new
plastic materials were not then on the market.
People had to work as much as forty hours a week.

Whatever we may say about the atomic age to
come, we can still be sure that in the Industrial
Age in which we live or the Technological Age in
which we live, we are now turning a milestone in
history. We now live in an age to which we have
not fully adjusted. My own guess is that we have
already outrun our institutions, and whether
atomic energy had been discovered or not, we still
would have had plenty of adjusting to do.

To the excited, conditions in our time appear
as unprecedented. Laski writes of a “world revo-
lution,” “a vast upheaval challenging the basic
assumptions of'a bourgeois civilization,” a period
comparable in intensity with the Napoleonic era.
But if we think it all over, we gain perspective.
Surely we live in a period of change. Certainly
we are turning a corner of history. Man once
lived in the stage of hunting and fishing; then
after a big social wrench, in a period of agrarian
civilization. Now we are in the Technological Age.
The atom bomb may appear as a turning point;
but we have been approaching this stage since the
time of Francis Bacon. Step by step we gain
increasing control over nature. The steam engine,
the power loom, the cotton gin, the mowing ma-
chine, in our time develop into electricity and
electronics, plastics, the production line and the
atom pile. Step by step these new controls over
nature have brought changes into our social life.
Problems mount. Solutions increase in difficulty.
But the chain has not been broken. We can face
the future by studying the trends from the past.
We can analyze these developments, project them
into the future and make our plans in accord.

Now what are some of these trends, from past
to present, that we believe that we can project
into the future. One certainly has to do with the
hours of work and the hours of leisure.

The old agrarian civilization was geared to
work, work all the time, work from dawn to dark.
The old child’s proverb, “Satan finds some mis-
chief still for idle hands to do” had its application
in the life of the common man every day. He had
all he could do to gain his daily bread, and there
was little energy left for anything else. Of course,
in the old European civilization, eSpecially on the

422

  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 

continent, there were Sundays and fete-days, an
even for that period, society had developed plent
for the idle hands to do. There were religiou
ceremonies to attend, often twice on Sundays, an
in my ancestral home of Scotland, three—hou
sermons. Then there were organized village
games and dances, with difficult musical instru-
ments to learn to play, complicated rhythms to
master, intricate dance steps and formations to
learn—and these were not easy to learn—an
regular costumes to make, lace to fashion, em
broideries to sew, and shoes to make. Of course
it is not completely true that all leisure time wa
occupied in the Agrarian Age; but, surely, in gen
eral terms the principle is true, that our ancestor
had pretty well solved the problem of what leisur
time there was.

Looking at the problem from the other side, i
can plainly be seen what happened during th
Agrarian Age when people had time on thei
hands, and at the same time money in thei
pockets. Then you find the situation of the bloo
and circuses of Rome, and the deplorable condi
tions of the mining camp. Those who knew Lead
ville or Cripple Creek of old or the Klondik
or the cow towns of Texas or Wyoming afte
the round-up, saw what went on when peopl
accustomed to be busy, suddenly found time 0
their hands. That was the heyday of the saloo
and dance hall, the faro, roulette and poker tables
and other forms of organized vice. The sam
situation was found in the capitals of the souther
states, during the reconstruction period. Examin
the expense accounts and expenditures of som
of these Agrarian Age people who suddenly foun
themselves idle and rich. Such a period wa
always an initial step toward decline and fall.

As the Industrial Age matures, as people wor
fewer hours, unless ability to make wise use c
leisure increases, there is no doubt that our civil
zation is doomed.

This trend toward fewer hours of wor
characteristic of the Technological Age as co
trasted with the Agrarian, has one additional fac
that needs to be discussed: for a second
difference between the two periods has to do wi
the role of youth.

In the Agrarian Age, the children and yo
had an important role to play in the producti
life of a people. Little children had their regu
jobs to do, and helped on farms, in homes, and
small factories. Children practically paid their w
and the larger the family, generally speaking,
better off was the family. But with the devel
ment of the Technological Age, there is little I

RECREAT

children to do. Instead of paying their way, they
are, in fact, a financial liability, and have to be

maintained in idleness until they reach an age
when they can find productive work.

Furthermore, in the pattern that seems to be
developing in the United States, there is even
less place for youth with us than among other
peoples. We found on the Youth Commission that
unemployment in the 1930’s fell three times as
heavily on the age group of 16-24 as it did on
those in their 40’s. You can readily see why
this is. Child labor laws restrict the employment
opportunity of the young. Labor unions and em-
ployers have tended to restrict the opportunities
for entrance into employment. Seniority rules,
commonly adopted, give the preference to the
older worker. Minimum wage laws are becoming
universal, and these tend in the direction naturally
of giving preference to the older and more skilled
rather than to the younger and beginner. Further-
more, at present, there is a large movement toward
giving preference to the veteran, which now and
increasingly in the future, will work against the
interests of the young. With each of these
tendencies, individually, I doubt if we should
quarrel. Powerful reasons work for their con-
tinuance. Yet, added together, they explain, in
part at least, why in Americaunder our techno-
logical civilization, youths are likely to be idle, or
have fewer hours of employment than their elders.

Here is not only a problem of morals, or
humanity, or charity, but also a problem of na-
tional survival. For a huge mass of unemployed
youth, roaming around, seeking diversion, delayed
in entrance to a life work, marriage postponed,
constitutes a temptation to the political demagog'ue
and a threat to the continuation of our form of life.

' It has been said that war constitutes the greatest
threat to the perpetuation of a democratic insti-
tution. I doubt this very much. To my mind, the
gravest danger to America comes not from any
power overseas, or from any conflict of ideol-
ogies—much as I fear the present world situation.
ossibly it should not be discussed as either-or.
Iowever we probably have enemies without, we
also have dangers within; and the gravest dangers
Are precisely these two trends that I have dis-
.cussed as the most apparent effects of our new
tontrol over nature, these two trends now upon
us, which the atomic age is likely to increase—
many people with time on their hands and money
if their pockets—and youth idle, unwanted, un-
assimilated.
Let me repeat, for the sake of emphasis, my
argument to this point. Here we are obviously

§ECEMBER 1947

going into a new world. Before the discovery of
atomic energy, we saw that our institutions wer"e
out of step, that. man had failed to keep politics
and social life abreast of his discoveries. Back at
the turn of the 18th—19th centuries, the new
discoveries, the growth of factories, the piling of
poor ignorant people into cities, had brought
disease and distress, exploitation, hunger and
misery. This was the Industrial Revolution. Now
we know that this Industrial Revolution was not
completed a century ago; that it has been develop-
ing at an accelerating rate; that the rate of change
may become prodigious in the next few years;
that we are facing social changes of profound
importance. In this change, the present conflict
between Communism and private enterprise may
appear in future times to be small indeed.

Like the pilgrims on the Mayflower, we are
sailing to an unknown land. We do not know
what lies ahead. But like the pilgrims, we have to
make the best guesses possible. We have to look
into our past experience, to see what trends there
are from past to present, and by projecting them,
try to guess what'the future holds. "

I cannot believe that we shall err in making
these predictions:

(1) That with the widespread use of atomic
' energy we shall have shorter hours of work,
more frequent periods of idleness, more fre-
quent holidays, earlier retirement, and con-
sequently far greater leisure time":

(2) That with the widespread use of atomic
energy, youth will have a more difficult start
in life, later entrance into permanent occupa—
tion, greater difficulty in becoming a part of
the community.

Here we see within the framework of our
modern civilization the potential sources of its
destruction. ' _

A people with short hours of work and long
hours of leisure must know how to use its leisure
time. Great masses of youth, unadjusted, unem-
ployed, waiting for marriage and the opportunity
to work, must somehow or other be occupied and ‘
satisfied, or you have the situation which brought

Hitler and Mussolini to the fore.

The answer to all this is, of course, EDUCATION
and RECREATION.

The most natural way to meet the problem of
the unwise and harmful use of leisure is to pro-
vide something for the people to do; and it can
be assumed with confidence that as we go deeper
into the atomic age, governments on all levels will .
make public recreation a major objective. We can
predict with confidence that there will be pro-

423

ivision of great programs of recreation supported
by the public: national, state and local parks and
playgrounds, game reserves, public theaters, opera
houses, orchestras, hobby centers. Large public
services will be offered iri these areas. The
modern industrial community must have the
equivalent in modern dress of old-time agrarian
fetes and festivals.

‘ Not only must there be the physical oppor-
tunities for proper recreation, but somehow or
other the people must be brought to use them;
and this is a matter of education in school and out.
Within the schools and other institutions of edu-
cation, we can count on a far larger attention to
better preparation for the use of leisure. There
will be attention paid, to an increasing degree, to
the extra talent, skill or hobby. Certainly the
citizen of the future will be a better member of
'the community if he can play a musical instrument,
or sing in a chorus, or paint a picture, make an

 

Skiing a Part of School Curriculum

Martha Mann

ROM THE TINY firstrgrade children to the
F ,skilled high school students, skiing is half of
living in Steamboat Springs, Colorado. Any
new teacher not knowing the meanings of such
common terms as “slalom” or “skijoring” soon
realizes she (or he) has much to learn. The chil-
dren take delight in being present as each teacher
first attempts to ski.
‘ Even in the appearance of the school buildings
and grounds, the visitor is made to realize the love
the children have for skiing. Dozens of pairs of
skis and ski poles are seen stacked in the deep
snow on each side of the sidewalk entrances to the
school buildings. Inside, more are seen propped
against the walls of the entrances. Instead of get-
ting. off a street car at the corner, or placing bi-
cycles in the rack, the children in Steamboat
1Springs arrive at school on skis, never realizing
they’re doing anything out of the ordinary.

When it’s time for the eagerly awaited last pe-
riod of the school day, the children ski hurriedly
over to famous Howelsen Hill, ready for the skiing
classes. They receive competent instruction from
an SRMSA certified instructor. Students are sep—
'arated into classes according to ability, and once
a week are given the tests for which they clamor.
' Long after the sun disappears, the children
'hnally leave the lighted hill, hungry, tired, but

424

etching, model in clay or carve, design, sew, cook,
photograph and prepare pictures, work with radio,
act, write, knit, make lace, "or needlepoint, or
embroider. Leisure should be an opportunity, not
a temptation. It is during the young years that
people form the habits of a lifetime; and it will
be the wise teacher who turns his attention to
such a goal.

But there is more to the problem than mere
provision of opportunities or inclusion in the
school program: I believe that there is a vast
program of adult education and communit
leadership. We find that children need to b
guided in their play, need to be introduced t
their hobbies. So it is with adults, and uncle
government support and guidance, I look for vas
extension not only of programs of adult education
for hobby and leisure time activities, but actual
leadership of adults into the wise, healthful use
of leisure time.

 
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  

bright-eyed and smiling. Except for the fact tha
most of them have lessons to study, many 'woul
return to the hill after supper. Even so, a straggle
is often seen coming in as late as eleven o’clock

Still, they do not get enough skiing to meet thei
desires. On Saturday, off they go again to spen
the day on the hill. They take lunches with the .
Saturdays they "take turns at packing the jump
which is a part of their training; and other home
work includes practicing turns, steps and jump

Each student has dreams of being tops in h'
class or of being a member of either the gra
school or high school team. Their high scho
team rated first in the state last year.

The students have become quite ski—contest co
scious. Many have won honors in the diFfere
"age levels. They have attended ski meets in ma
other resorts in Colorado, besides those in Stea
boat Springs. Their enthusiasm for contests w
eSpecially high this past year as the National S
Jump was held in Steamboat Springs in Febr
ary, and they took every advantage of their a
portunity to see the best jumpers.

The people of Steamboat Springs are proud
the children. They know skiing is a pastime c
ducive to both mental and physical health a
vigor. They are glad it plays such a promin
part in the lives of the children.

—From S lei N ews, February 1946.

RECREAT {

 

Greetings*

1.. Which colors are used for Christmas decora-
tions in China?

2. In the Hawaiian Islands, the day is celebrated
with what kind of gift?

3. Down in rural Mexico, when is the old drama
The Pasada enacted?

4. When is the Christmas celebration held in
Scotland and Greece?

5. Swedish household servants receive what spe—
cial treatment on Christmas Eve?

6. Irish village folk drink toasts on Christmas
Eve known as “lamb’s-wool.” What’s in the
drink?

7. In Denmark, what is dropped into the rice
porridge dessert for the Xmas feast?

8. What do the Yugoslavs use for decorations
instead of holly?

9. On the day before Xmas, what act of self-
denial do the Poles observe?

I 10. ‘Nhat are hotel guests in England served on
Christmas Eve?

' 11. Why do the village folk in Czechoslovakia go
to a pool or stream on Christmas Eve?

L Paper Doily Angels—uHow would you like to
[have angels in your home this Christmas? It’s
1very simple. Buy some lace—paper doilies in three
,or four usable sizes at any five-and-ten-cent store.
|Take the top two corners of one of the doilies and
loop them back and down until the corners over-

lap. Then fasten them together with a pin or
rubber cement. Follow the same procedure for

another doin and tuck it inside the first one to.

make the lower half of the angel’s skirt. The de-
sign in the corner of the doily is fine for a wing.

IDECEMBER 1947

i
Making merry at Christmas is fun—and even more:E
fun it you try this quiz with your family and triendsi
We're going to travel around the globe to test your;
Christmas spirit. Count | for every correct answer?
lb or over' you're going to dash along with Sarita;
I I-I5I you can hang up a stocking; I0 or less. you're
a bit of a "Scrooge." but Merry Christmas anyway!‘

12. What custom is observed by French cafe pai
trons when they eat Christmas Eve suppers?
And now for some questions about Christmas

in America:

13. Which radio and screen star has come to be
associated with the reading of Dickens’ C hrist-
mas Carol?

14. The works of which famous early American
lithographers are among the most popular
modern Christmas card subjects?

15. Where is the American National Christmas
Tree located?

16. Has Christmas always been celebrated by
Americans?

17. He is better known as the originator of the
Democrat donkey, the Tammany tiger, and the
Republican elephant, but he was the hrst to

draw Santa“ Claus as a fat, fur-clad saint:
Who is he? i

18. Careful—there’s a catch to this one. Where
is Christmas Island? '

(For Answers see page 455)

 

*Reprinted from Magazine Digest, Toronto, Canada.

 

4 4- 

For Christmas

and the head can easily be found on your favorite
figure on an old Christmas card or in the maga—
zines. (A magazine head may have to be rein—
forced with stiff paper or cardboard pasted on the
back of the head.) Be sure to give your angel an
extra-long tapering neck so that her head will tuck
easily into the top of the doily skirt. For real
effectiveness line the skirt and wings with colored
paper and use your angels as favors on the dinner
table, hung together on a ribbon for a wall or door
decoration or to give your Christmas tree that
angelic look. i

3
Q

425

With an earnest request for good
photographs, RECREATION magazine
Submits the following simple rules
for the taking of eyiective pictures.

Simple Rules
for Good Pictures
D0 ‘

I. Give advance thought and planning to the 6. Photograph subjects close together but

taking of pictures. strive to have the pose a natural one. This
may take patience, but is worthwhile.

2. Realize that a good picture tells a story. 7. If you are working with a professional pho—
Choose your picture situation carefully. tographer, respect his art and skill. Con-

Show something happening. sider his suggestions carefully. You will
. I find him most cooperative.

3. Look for human interest. 8. Remember that glossy prints are most
easily reproduced in any magazine or news-

paper.

9. When submitting photographs to RECREA-
TION, type identification and a brief descrip—
tive statement on a small piece of plain

4. Be sure to select a suitable background.

5. Ask the photographer to take a close-up of

 

426

not more than three or four persons in an
action pose. This rule should hold true
when photographing a group' activity. Let
the action tell the story for the group. If
attendance figures are important, they can
be given in the caption of the picture.

DON’T

I. Have too many persons in the picture.
2. Have a group of people stand or sit in

rows .

N0. This picture would end in the. waste bhsket.

white paper. Paste this on the back of the
picture in the lower left hand corner. When
names are included, be sure that they are
complete and correct. Be sure to mention
if a credit line is necessary and include your
own name in the information given.

3. Pose subjects staring into the camera.
4. Forget that RECREATION magazine is inter—

ested in good pictures.

 

YES. This picture flashes story at a glan

RECREATI -

Life as recreation supervisor
in a large Army hospital is
exciting and satisfying . . .

WORKING AT PLAY

Dorothy B. Taaife

“Really?”
“Every day?”

“Four thousand men?”

“Movie and opera stars?”

“F orty-two shows every week?”

“Do you honestly call that job ‘work’ ?”

ALL IT WHAT YOU WILL, life as a recreation
C supervisor in a large Army hospital, even

with the war long over, means activity every
minute, every place. As I sit at my desk this
afternoon I can separate sounds—all recreational
in nature: the snap of a ping-pong ball as it hits
the table after a fast serve, the two-finger drum-
ming of a would-be pianist, the rather colorful
argument of two sergeants who are discussing the
pros and cons of the “regular Army.” My desk
is in an office from which I can see, by twisting
my head a bit, the recreation hall with its stage
and its recreational equipment. Soldier patients
on crutches, in wheelchairs, even on litters, fill
the three recreation halls of this Army hospital
every day from ten in the morning until nine at
night, “bed-check” time in an Army hospital. It
is the Red Cross recreation workers’ job to see
that the hospitalized soldiers choose to come to the
‘l‘rec hall.” It is their way of fulfilling an Army
regulation ( Ar—850-7 5) which states that “the Red
Cross shall plan and direct medically approved
individual and group recreation for bed patients
and convalescents.”

Recreation is not a new word. It is a new pro-
fessional field; an exciting area. Accordingly, a
recreation worker must understand the philosophy,
principles and practices of the field before she
embarks on a career which may find her directing
a chorus line of G.' I.’s in a routine or helping a
paralyzed man to find his own usefulness even if

DECEMBER 1947

it means lifting his arm to stop a phonograph
which she has purposely forgotten. It is a chal—
lenging field.

The “rec halls” at this general hospital abound
with all the choices that a man may make in his
normal search for leisure time activity. Choice is
important because there are four thousand men,
all different—0f every age, every race, every color,
every creed, background, nationality, temperament,
size and ability. Their common ground‘ is their.
hospitalization. Their common need is the leisure
time enjoyment which can be an aid to recovery
and normalcy.

Seven nights every week, twelve hours every
day, each man may choose. There are movies,
stage shows from New York and Philadelphia,
quiz programs from New York radio stations,
hostess parties at which the girls who are mem-
bers of a formally organized and trained corps
assist the recreation workers. There are carnivals
and Monte Carlo nights and “mock circuses” and
holiday parties. There is group recreation with its
gamut of participation which runs from the soldier
patient with a cane who will be glad to sing in the

_patient talent show to the youngster with a neu-

rosis who refuses to look up when a recreation
worker brings a magician into the ward.
Individual recreation is important, too, par—
ticularly for those who do not have the ability-—
either physical, mental or social—to participate in
a group activity. In recreation for the individual,-

42?

 

Simple recreational crafts help pass the long hours
of convalescence. Such activities have therapeutic
value in healing physical and mental afflictions.

the worker must be sensitive to the least obvious,
the most remote interest of the patient. She must
place before him a “cafeteria of ideas”—1uscious
items of activity which will be beneficial to him,
will bring him out of his lonely, unnatural state
back through convalescence to normal health.

Art materials, musical instruments, games of all
kinds are available at all times. Hobby groups are
formed, and men are encouraged to learn about
fly—tying or stamps, or how to play chess, or how
to draw up plans for the houses they hope to build.
Every possible choice is open to them, and they are
always encouraged, never forced, to choose.

It is often necessary in the case of hospital rec-
reation to “bring the mountain to Mohammed.”
The long wards of an Army hospital are very
often filled to capacity with long-term bed patients
,—men in traction, men in body casts, paraplegics
(men who have been paralyzed by an injury to the
spinal column), men who are suffering from T. B.
or cancer, or malaria, or jungle rot, or hepatitis,
or a cardiac or rheumatic fever condition. They
can, under no circumstances, “go to the mountain,”
so the choice is brought to them. It is always
startling to note, and to remember, how important
the phrase “a medically—approved recreation pro-
gram” is in relation to this and to all phases of
hOSpital recreation. Each case is different. It is
not news that “orthopedics” are gay, hopeful,
peppy and demanding. “Live” ward entertain—
ment in the way of celebrity visits, musicians,

428

o It is the recreation workers’ job to help them keep

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
   
 
  
  

dancers, chess and stamp experts, is always wel—
come. These men are stimulated by the color and
excitement and noise, which are healing. They are
getting well. They want everything from a spa-
ghetti dinner to the latest release from Hollywood.

fighting, to help keep them on the “up-beat” by
providing as much and as varied a recreation pro-
gram as is reasonable and possible; The malady,
then, changes the program. No physician would
approve of the antics and activity of an orthopedic
ward in a cardiac or “quiet” ward.

A recreation worker learns to serve arrowroot
biscuit, ginger ale and marshmallows at a birth—
day party for a hepatitis patient, for the “birthday
boy” could only look at ice cream and cake if they
were served. A rec-reation worker soon discovers
such equipment as projected books for the “Hat—
on-his-back” patient, or the value of leather tool-
ing, string belt weaving, or clay modelling for the
long-term patient. She must be sensitive to every
need, aware of every possibility which may or
may not encourage the men to normal living and
thinking.

The process is gradual. It is nothing less than
thrilling to realize that “Murphy”. of Ward 28
finally is out of traction after fifteen months in bed
and that no one ever realized he was so tall until
he first swung his legs out of bed and down into
that wheelchair. First he came to the movies in
the wheelchair, then with a ceremony he graduated
to crutches, then a cane, then a brace; and now
there he is getting into that Red Cross station
wagon, which will take him to a big league ball
game, perhaps, or to the opera or a play or on
picnic———or maybe, if he is one of the lucky ones
and so chooses, to the Army-Navy football game.
Yes, the process is gradual. It is also exciting,
satisfying and intensely compensating. This ha
been true so many times, in so many ways, watch
ing bed patients have the gayest of times at
well—planned “coming—out” party—when one pa
tient “came 'out” of his body cast for the firs
time—or marvelling at grown men rejoicing ove
an electric train or an honest—to—goodness home
made chocolate cake, or bending to listen to a be
patient'who whispers on Christmas Eve, “Mayb
there is a Santa Clausafter all.”

It is difficult to evaluate recreation service. I
is, as is easily seen, almost always intangible in i
results and rewards.- Happiness, health, the jo
of living cannot be measured by a slide rule; hi
it is so true that the giver also receives.

It has, therefore, been a wonderful experienc
working at play.

RECREATI

   

“What Other Schools Don’t Have”

JEAN and JESS OGDEN

I see what they don’t have.”

The speaker was our student guide when
we visited the Goldsboro, North Carolina, High
School. He was also head engineer of the Gold-
masquers Radio Workshop conducted by the dra-
matic arts department. What his school has that-
others don’t have is the product of student activ-
ity in that workshop. It is a radio station com-
plete with production office, control room, editing
and auditioning room and two broadcasting stu-
dios with telephone line to the local station. The
control room is equipped with a console, two turn-
tables, a studioette, and a fine musical library con-
taining over 200 albums of records.

This radio station is no plaything. It is an
honest-to-goodness working model. It is so good
that last Spring, while the local station was making
some changes in its own studios, the entire pro-
gram was temporarily transferred to the high
school studio. There is a close working relation-
ship between the commercial station and the work-
shop. The program director for the station serves
as middleman between station and school. A grad-
uate of the school, now employed by the station,
comes back to teach in the workshop two periods
a day.

Within the school, the Goldmasquers of the air
present two regular weekly programs. In “Slate
Notes” they report what is happening in the
Goldsboro schools. In “Young America” they
dramatize the everyday problems of high school
boys and girls. They also present occasional eve-
ning programs over the Tobacco Network as well
as the local station. The students, according to
the director, operate the entire station—console,
sound effects, scripts, and direction.

In fact, the studios were conceived and con-
structed by the students and' dedicated to the grad-
uates of the school who lost their lives in World
War II. They began construction in the summer

Ill. CERTAINLY DO FEEL for other schools when
I

DECEMBER 1947

High school students make and man
their own radio station through finan-
cial aid from the dramatics department.

of 1945 and completed it the following March.
The estimated cost was $800. They knew they
could easily realize this amount from their plays,
for the school has a 'long history of line dramatic
productions. It provides “Theatre” for this entire
city of I 5,000 persons. As constructing and equip—
ping the studios progressed, enthusiasm spread.
Many students who never had been interested in
dramatics became keenly interested in the radio
program. Some who had never been interested in
anything about school found a vital interest here—
so vital that they were willing to learn the neces-
sary science or mathematics or English. The rela-
tionship between what they had to do and what
they wanted to do became clear.

As enthusiasm has spread, plans have become
more elaborate. Costs have mounted; but this has
only necessitated increased activity in dramatic
productions. Proceeds have kept up with them.

“Construction” did not involve a new building
nor even an addition to the old. It did involve par-
titions, wall-paper, paint, and countless boy-and-
girl hours of good hard work. Studio A is in the
balcony of the auditorium. The old projection
room is now the control room. Removing a few
seats and salvaging bits of hallway have provided
the rest of the Space. Studio B is on the stage and
is used only for special pr0grams. The studio is
altogether professional in appearance—even to the
secretary on duty in the office.

The teacher of dramatic arts carries chief respon-
sibility for the workshop. It is a twelve-month
program. In the summer months, the city recrea-
tion department pays the salary of the director.
Nobody, however, pays him for extra time in the
twelve-hour day, seven-day-a-week schedule he
cheerfully assumes. His reward lies in seeing what
the program means to the boys and girls.

W'ithin the school, the influence of the workshop
is felt in many ways. Boys who formerly spent
their evenings in less constructive pastimes are

429

now too busy in dramatic arts work. It is no
longer “sissy” to be there. Whereas it used to be
“necessary to bribe boys to get them on the stage,
it is now a struggle to lind places for them.” This
year 160 of the total 5.00 high school students are
in dramatic arts classes. As many more were
refused admission because there was neither room
nor staff to care for them.

There is already evidence that many of them
have found a vocational interest. The “head engi-
neer” who explained the program to us already
has his engineer’s license and works four hours a
day at the local station. A girl in the workshop
is also employed at the local station as an an—
nouncer. But they both plan to go on to college.
Another former workshopper is now in art school
in New York and another has won a radio fellow—
ship at the University.

The community benefits too, from this program,
and will beneiit even more in years to come. The
workshop is educating a discriminating radio au-
dience. As these students become a vocal part of
the adult community, they are bound to demand
good programs. A recent nationwide public o‘pin-
ion survey showed that most people have no
“definite views” or “clear—cut tastes” in radio pro-
grams. The general opinion was summed up in
these words: “If you don’t like a radio program,
you can always turn it off.” These boys and girls
will not take that negative attitude. If they don’t
like it, they will do something to make it better,
for they know what they do like as well as what
they do not.

Both students and teachers in the Goldsboro
High School are enthusiastic about the possibilities
of such programs for any community in which
there is a local broadcasting station. And, as they
have pointed out, these are increasing rapidly even
in small towns. They admitted that teachers with
the vision and skills required are scarce.

“But they won’t be,” one teacher maintains,
“when these kids get through.”

 

What They Say About

Recreation . . .

“Play is one of the most essential laboratories
of freedom.”—Tncson Recreation Council.

“For children the right to play; for their elders
the chance for richer living.”-——Martinsviile, Vir-
ginia, Recreation Commission.

430

Little Theatres
Form State Body*

Delegates of 22 Communities, Meeting at

Cornell, Organize to Promote Amateur Units

EPRESENTATIVES 0F twenty-two Little Theatre
R groups meeting at Cornell University today
voted to form a state organization, to be known as
the New York State Community Theatre Con-
ference.

The purposes are: to promote a high standard
of the theatre and to develop interest in drama in
New York communities. Membership will be open
to groups or individuals.

Besides responsibilty for annual meetings, the
conference will promote new amateur theatres,
assist in organizing and give member groups op-
portunity to exchange ideas, materials and plays.
The organization also expects to hold drama fes-
tivals, according to Miss _Mary E. Duthie, associ—
ate Professor of Rural Sociology at Cornell.

Another resolution called for maintenance of a
recognized relationship with Cornell, with the
Rural Sociology and Speech and Drama Depart-
ments continuing to act as sponsors.

Walter E. Short of the Colonial Little Theatre
in Johnstown, was elected chairman of the steer-
ing committee, which will draft the plan of organi-
zation to submit to the conference next year.

Delegates discussed technical problems in stage
design and problem's in organizing Little Theatres,
play writing, membership and community rela-
tions. They saw the work of one group when “Per—
sonal Appearance” was presented by the Elmira
Little Theatre, Incorporated, before a capacity
crowd at the campus theatre.

Barrett H. Clark, critic, author and lecturer at
Columbia University, spoke before more than 300
persons on the amateur theatre, and John W.
Parker, director of the bureau of community
drama at the University of North Carolina, was
also a speaker. ,

Communities represented at the three-day meet-
ing were Johnstown, Amsterdam, Ogdensburg,
Webster, Waverly, Rochester, Watertown, El-
mira, Utica, Yonkers, Binghamton, Troy, Batavia,
White Plains, Mamaroneck, Corning, Ithaca,
Cazenovia, East Hampton, Oswego, Pleasantville
and Spencer.

 

*Reprinted from The New York Times, October 27, 1947.

RECREATION

 

i THE NEW -YORK TIMESJ
I z " "" r..- i. . . --_' ‘-

Organized recre‘
[reached an all- a
National R a '/

-I The provision ot proper-recrea-
tional facilities supported by the —_

 public and sponsored by the gov-
ernment on all levels for the suit- *

. able use of leisure time in the
present atomic age was forecast

' last night by Dr. William F. Rus-

- sell,
Columbia University.

Addressing executives and work,  "
ers in the recreational field fro  - ’

t. ' various sections of the country at a
3rd dinner held in conjunction with the

Congress in the Ho w Yorker,

the New York educ
that failure to Iroyide at. '2‘
“the' non-harmfu use of leisure
time” Will lead to conditions similar
1 to those under Hitler and Mus-

chestras and hobby centers."
Charles R. Speers, vice presi-

reiations for the Eagle Pencil
Company, emphasized the‘ impor-

eon of the Industrial Recreation

 the. congress.

Publicity tor the 29th National Congress was nationwide.

 

DECEMBER 1947

 

dean of Teachers College,‘ -

public theatres, opera, houses, or- ..

‘ dent of American Airlines, and Dr.. ,
‘ John Meade, director of industrial ,

tance of recreational programs in .
industry, in adddressing a lunch-

"1 Conference, held in conjunction ~

. Quick action on the
an Interested press relayed up-to-the-minute news to all parts of the United States.

twenty-ninth Nationallvgecreation .. , 
el e ‘  "

tau-.—

' W T0 Won TY

SEEN B CHURCH AIDE

accomplished
- that un-

 

L 'l . .2;
part of

I

431

Out of this Congress has come a ringing mes-
sage to all of us—that recreation has a tremen-
dous contribution to make in giving meaning to
life at a time when for millions life seems to
have been robbed of any purpose. Read about
some of the highlights of this stirring occasion.

THE_1947 RECREATloN CONGBESS

ROM FAR CORNERS of the country—the United
States and Canada———came people genuinely
interested in recreation. They gathered to—

gether at the Congress, professional workers and
volunteer leaders, I300 strong, to discuss prob—
lems, methods, program, and to exchange experi-
ences on ways of providing recreation service.
The atmosphere was one of eagerness and a very
earnest desire to get something done. It was a
heartening event. The mezzanine, third and fourth
floors of the Hotel New Yorker were crowded, as
friends greeted friends. Many small groups gath—
ered in knots along the corridors exchanging
greetings or plunging into discussion. Many new
faces mingled with those of the old-timers; serious
purpose seemed to mark them all.

Exhibitors arranged their gay and effective dis—
plays on the mezzanine floor immediately adjoin—
ing the Registration Desk, thus providing the en-
trance to the Congress with a gala air. Delegates
were given full opportunity to examine new recre-
ation materials, to chat with exhibitors and to be-
come acquainted with cooperating firms and agen-
cies on the way to the meetings. The excellent
movie—Playtown U. S. A.—illustrating how a
moving picture can effectively interpret a recrea-
tion program, was shown along the corridor, and
many stopped to watch.

The Consultation Workshop was a busy center
of activity, answering questions, arranging innu—
merable conferences between delegates and con—
sultants on special topics. Meetings were well-
attended and discussions participated in with a
frankness and good will which promises well for
a greater understanding of recreation as it fits into
today’s picture. All were looking for information,

ideas and suggestions to take back to their local
communities; all had come to work.

432

  
  
    
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
 

Many were pleased to take advantage of th
facilities of the Congress Press Room to send bul-
letins to their home town papers.

!

General Sessions

Throughout the addresses given at the general
sessions of the Congress, emphasis was placed on
the great need—greater than ever before- -for the
widespread and proper development of recreation
services in this era of stresses and strains.

Dr. Henry Smith Leiper, Associate General
Secretary, World Council of Churches, in his talk
Teannvorlc for a Healthy World,1 pointed up th

All meetings were well attended
many proved to be very lively

 

1 A summary of this address is given on page 417.

RECREAT

gm..--.....s,,.. - ‘ ' V a. W

or Jan Eisenhard’f. ChlEf 01c Ac’fiVl’fieS. UN. Howard Braucher. Presiden’r of Na’rional Recrea’rion Associa’rionl Dwayne
reSSed “19 American Recreaiion SOCle’fY- Or’ron. Dr. William F. Russell and William H. Davis discuss a session.

' roving photographer

.y.:.:.:. .

atehes delegates in

mal and

Informal Moments

 

T. E. Rivers, Secrel’ary of fire Congress and Wal’rer "
Mack find a corner for a quiel' chal’. Below: Delegal'e

T- M0“ 0“ H°n°IUIu greels fell°w recreal'on lurn oul’ for square dancing in ’rhe Grand Ballroo

rs from her perch on a new slyle see-saw.

part that recreation can play in the alllimportant
job of helping people to develop a sense of world
community and fellowship as a step toward the
preservation of civilization. He stated that people
playing together reach a better understanding;
that they learn to play by the same rules, follow
the same views; that you can’t have cooperation
apart from common principles.

“The world is a physical neighborhood for the
first time,” said Dr. Leiper. “There never was any
need to hold this world together until recently,
because many parts did not know the others
existed . . . Now we must develop quickly a sense
of interrelatedness and interdependence which will
turn that neighborhood into a community. We
must have a team spirit of wholeness in our na—

tion, our world.”
Walter S. Mack, Jr., President of the Pepsi-

Cola Company, spoke on Expanding Recreation
Services Today for Richer Living in 'America To—
morrow, presenting the point of view of the busi-
ness man. He emphasized the great change that
has been developing in this country during the last
ten years-———labor unions doing a good job to get
better working conditions and shorter hours for
their people, the mechanical age speeding up the
processes of everyday living such as washing, iron—
ing and so on. “What,” asked Mr. Mack, “are
these people going to do with their additional
leisure hours?” He went on to emphasize that all
of us must go out and see that recreation facilities
are available, not only for youngsters but for
grown-ups as well. “You can get the help of busi-
ness men in your Community,” he stated, “if you
will tell them what you want them to do and how
you want them to d0_it . . . We must convince the
City Fathers, the mayors, town counselors, the
business men, that what people want is communal
activities and a place where they can get together,
spend their leisure time with their neighbor and
relax.”

Dean William F. Russell of Teachers College,
Columbia University, in his talk on Recreation and
the Atomic. Age,2 brought out the point that
changes have been so rapid during the last years
that we are now living in an age to which we have
not fully adjusted, and that as the Industrial Age
matures, as people work fewer hours, unless the
ability to make wise use of leisure increases, there
is no doubt that our civilization is doomed. He
believes that, with the widespread use of atomic
energy, we shall have even shorter hours of work,
more frequent periods of idleness, more frequent

holidays and earlier retirement, and that not only -

2 A summary of this address is given on page 421.

434

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
   

must there be the physical opportunities for proper
recreation, but somehow or other people must be
brought to use them. This, he believes, is a mat-
ter of education in school and out.

Robert Moses, Chief Executive of the City and
State Park Systems of New York, gave a detailed
account of what has been accomplished in the way
of recreation in the City of New York, stating that
the city started in 1934 with the same lack of
active play facilities as is suffered by most cities.

All speakers welcomed questions from the floor.

A Full Schedule

Discussion meetings, special meetings, demon-
strations, conferences morning, noon and nigh
presented a galaxy of recreation interests and con
cerns from which it was hard to choose. All wer
Well-attended; many proved to be very lively.
Among the subjects considered, to mention onl
a few of many, were; Problems of Recreatio
Agencies in Cities of 10,000 and Under; Planning
and Development of Recreation Areas; Personnel
Standards and Problems; Special Recreation Pro-
grams for Women; Recreation in Rural Areas and
Small Communities; Recreation for Older People;
Problems of Recreation Agencies in Cities of
500,000 and Over; Church Recreation; Drama in
the Recreation Program; Recreation Equipment
Problems. Discussion meetings were summarized
at three general morning sessions.

The National Recreation School Alumni and the
American Recreation Society both held their an-
nual meetings at the Congress.

A Busman’s Holiday

Like the busman on a holiday, delegates relaxed
from recreation by enjoying recreation in the few
leisure hours provided. Ed Durlacher, Director of
Square Dances for the New York City Park De—
partment, took over in the Grand Ballroom after
the opening meeting on Monday evening. Dele-
gates shed their hats and coats and turned out wit
a will. Mr. Durlacher has helped to bring th
pleasure of square dancing to people all Over th
country, and is an expert at mixing humor witl
his lively figure-calling. Afternoon tours were ar
ranged for delegates who wanted to see Ne
York, and to see some of its‘ recreation progran
in action. One afternoon tour included stops a
Central Park, Macombs Dam Park, Claremo
Park, Crotona Park, Bronx Park and Brya
Park. .

Industrial Conference

Representatives of many types of industries, t
gether with representatives of labor organizatio
chambers of commerce, manufacturers associatio

RECREATI

E .. éaJ "

 

Ed Durlacher and his musicians conducted
a lively 'session of square dancing.

and community recreation departments held a
series of meetings, on their common problems,
during the- first two days of the Congress.

The spirit of these meetings was typical of that
of the entire Congress. The conference considered
such topics as Industrial Recreation and Commu-

nity Relations; Recreation in Large Plants; Rec--

reation for Store and Office Employees; Recrea-
tion for Transportation Employees; Activities for
W'omen and Girls; Special Activities; Manage-
ment and Union Cooperation in Employees Recre-
ation; Recreation for Supervisors and Executives.

During the round-table discussion, there emerged
a strong feeling that the term “industrial recrea-
tion,” used in referring to a recreation program in
plants and businesses, should be changed to “em-
ployee recreation.” This broader term would
be clearly inclusive of employees in offices, insur-
ance companies, stores, airlines, public utilities,
etc., and would avoid any existing confusion re-
garding the use of the term “industrial recreation”
as applied to working with employees of such com-
panies. There was also discussion relative to
industrial directors adopting certain professional
standards which would include qualifications,

training and the duties of a recreation director in
industry.

DECEMBER 1947

At the session on “Management and Union Co-
operation in Employee Recreation,” Hiram S.
Hall, Director of Personnel Administration of the
Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Company, stressed the
importance of remembering that recreation pro-
grams deal with people, that the age drive in each
individual must be recognized. He felt that work-
ers’ participation in the development of their own
programs is important and that a paternalistic
attitude on the part of the company is very bad.
He declared that the union should be a purveyor
of good tidings, and that individuals who repre-
sent the union in recreation should not be those
who are, or have been, the focal point of a wage or
other dispute. Lowell F. Johnson, Assistant to the
Director of Industrial Relations, American Home
Products Corporation, who was chairman of the
meeting, introduced three points: first, the great
need of emphasizing and giving wide publicity to
the mutuality of interest binding these two forces
in our free enterprise economy, and the great need
of finding some method of making labor harmony
more newsworthy than strife; second, that we
must give increasing emphasis to the development
of recreation in American business and industry
and through it build up a basis for cooperation,
understanding and appreciation of the other fel—
low; and third, that the plight of the small plant
or business warrants some consideration at this
time. He stated that it is not generally under-
stood that the small organization comprises the
great bulk of American industry, "and that most of
those who fall into this category cannot afford staff
services to provide the facilities for'an integrated
personnel program. He proposed that in employee
recreation, the small company follow the example
which some already have set in pooling their re-
sources to provide adequate medical services. He
asked, “Why cannot this same method be followed
in pooling resources to provide adequate recreation
facilities?”

ORDER YOUR PROCEEDINGS NOW!

Because it is impossible to summarize in RECREA-
TION all of the interesting sessions of the Congress,
the full proceedings—including addresses, sum-
maries of discussions and a‘ complete report of the
industrial sessions—{have been gathered together
and sent to the press. This storehouse of valuable
ideas and material will be available sometime in

January but, as only a limited number of c-Opies are

being printed, we advise that orders be sent at once
to the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth
Avenue, New York 10, New York. Price: $2.25.

 

435

How One Newspaper Serves Its Community

A project unique in
newspaper history.
Thousands take part in
neighborly meetings.

EOPLE LIKE TO be neighborly! This is being
proved over and over again by the N ewarl:
Evening News as thousands of New Jersey

homemakers visit its auditorium every season for
the programs planned as a part of the newspaper’s
service to the community. These programs have
been given for more than fifteen years, covering a
wide variety of interests and activities. From the
very beginning it has been stressed that the pro-
grams are planned to offer an opportunity for an
exchange of ideas. Community people themselves
participate in presentations, discussions and pro-
gram activity.

The high point of the most recent meetings oc-
curred in October of this year in the form of an
allsday Winter Recreation Institute, with national,
state and city groups participating. During the
morning the subjects, “Home Centered Recrea-
tion,” and “Neighborhood Recreation” were cov-
ered by talks and by demonstrations in which com-
munity people took part. John W. Faust, of the
National Recreation Association, who was in
charge of these sessions, was‘assisted by Siebolt
Frieswyck of the Griffith Music Foundation, and
Mildred \Vheeler, Assistant Superintendent of
Recreation in Montclair, New Jersey. At the
end of the meetings the color film, “Playtown
U.S.A.,” was shown. it

In the afternoon, “What People Want to Do”
was discussed by William T. Vanderlipp, Depart-
ment of Economic Development, State of New
Jersey; “Local Recreation Facilities” was pre—
sented by members of the.Newark Board of Edu-
cation Recreation Department, and demonstrations
of “Group Recreation Activities” were given by
other public recreation officials.

The rear of the auditorium was devoted to ex-
hibits of bulletins, programs and photographs
of recreation activities, displayed by public and
private agencies and by the National Recreation
Association. Enthusiastic visitors walked off with
enough free material to take care of their own
home recreation for some nights to come.

The present series of programs is of humble

origin. That people like to be neighborly was the '

436

   
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
  

idea that a small woman from a remote Adiron
dack community brought to the News offices whe
she came to join the staff twenty-five years ago
Mrs. Edna A. W. Teall sorely missed the friendl
contacts of village life, and believing that neighbor
liness should be encouraged, undertook to promot
it as rapidly as possible.

An important factor in her success was the fac
that at the same time, the present owner of th
newspaper, Edward W. Scudder, was dreaming 0
an auditorium which could be used for communit
activities.

Mrs. Tcall’s first effort was a recipe exchang
column in the News called “The Cookery Club.’
When the auditorium finally became a reality
women who had contributed to the column wer
invited to take part in the programs and becom
members of a Homemaking Club. The meeting
began; the idea caught on and spread. In thos
early days, the News began cooperating with th
Essex County Home Extension Service in Hom
Economics of the New Jersey College of Agricul
ture. Since that time, women from fifty or mor
towns around Newark have been attending meet
ings and classes, and there is a large number
corresponding members. This has continued an
expanded through the years, adding greatly to th
scope and variety of subjects offered. Last sea
son, members of the Art Center of the Orange
took over part of the craft project and other loc
handcrafters and artists joined them, with th
result that scores of women had the opportunity t
learn to use their skills in new and interestin
ways.

The slogan of the club since its inception h
been “Share with Your Neighbor.” One of i
most outstanding features is that all group leade
and workers are volunteers who give liberally
their time and interest, sharing things in whi
they find pleasure with others, passing along id
in the field of homemaking crafts. Its constan
changing program, adapted to current interest
needs and requests of community people, is
illustrated by the recent Winter Recreation Ins
tute, and its emphasis on recreation.

RECREATI

World at Play

’Tis the Season To Be Jolly—Christmas—
with all the trimmings—will be celebrated at the
New York Museum of Science and Industry,
Rockefeller Center, when the first Annual Toy
Show is presented there. Advancements in scien—
tific, mechanical and educational playthings will be
on display the entire month of December for
junior and his parents. In addition, the merry
man in the red suit—Santa Claus—will be at the
Museum and there’ll be souvenirs and balloons for
the young in age. If that’s not enough, there will
be a real carnival atmosphere, marionette shows
every day, a continuous showing of children’s
films, and parents will be able to relax or shop
while their youngsters are entertained by the new-
est outdoor play devices in the Museum’s super-
vised playroom.

No Dull Moments Here—There was plenty
of activity during the Annual Iowa Farm Sports
Festival this year—forty-two baseball and softball
diamonds were in use at one time! No count was
made of the number of spectators at the Festival,
but it is estimated that there were at least 15,000
people present during the two-day affair and par-
ticipants numbered more than 3500, representing
all ninety-nine counties of Iowa.  well-organized
program included archery, badminton, baitcasting,
clock golf, football passing and kicking, nail driv-
ing, woodchopping, tennis, trap shooting contests,
among other activities. A folk festival of music,
dancing and drama also proved very entertaining.

DECEMBER 1947

 

Advice to Future Santa’s — “A Creative
Christmas for Every Child” is the public education

campaign promoted this year by the Educator’s
Committee for Better Playthings. The Commit-
tee’s pre-Christmas proposals include singling out
for parents the kinds of “bread and butter play

v materials” which have lasting play value and are

multipurposed; singling out for commendation a
number of toys, books and records—and their
manufacturers—which have shown the greatest
consideration for the play needs of children; call-
ing upon parents’ associations and child study
groups to devote at least one pre-Christmas meet-
ing to this subject; and inviting representatives of

the radio, newspapers and other media of commu-
nication to join in this campaign.

Food for F reedom—Twentyemillion freedom
gardens in 1948—that is the minimum goal recom-
mended by Secretary of Agriculture Clinton P.
Anderson. In announcing the immediate drive for
home production and preservation of food during
the coming year, Secretary Anderson said, “By
helping himself to meet increasing living costs, the
home gardener will be helping his own community
to make a precious contribution to a hungry
world.” The Department of Agriculture and the
Cooperative State Extension Services will again
provide gardeners with practical how-to-do-it in-
formation, and initial plans call for a series of
regional conferences of Federal and state officials
and community garden leaders.

437

Swashbuckling Adventures Live Again—
I-Iearty adventure stories and stirring tales of
pioneers, explorers, heroes and heroines are being
presented by the Los Angeles City Recreation and
Park Department on station KLAC. Thrilling epi—
sodes in history involving john Sutter, Bret
Harte, Ambrose Bierce and other well-known
Americans are reenacted on “The American Story-
book” program every Saturday afternoon at I :15
RM. The series, inaugurated October II, will

continue to January third.
0

A Half Century of Progress—It was way
back in 1898 that the necessity for public play-
grounds and recreation was realized in the City of
San Francisco. In that year, the California Club,
a woman’s organization, established and supported
for three years the first public playground on
school property. Now, almost fifty years later, San
Francisco boasts forty-four playgrounds and cen-
ters, thirty-four schoolyards, nineteen additional
summer schoolyards, six teen-age,centers, a pho-
tography center, two swimming pools, a mountain
camp, junior museum and gardening center, nine-
teen school gymnasiums and two school recreation
centers under supervision._ In addition, the San
Francisco Recreation Department supervises rec-
reation in thirteen housing developments operated
by the San Francisco Housing Authority.

0

Get Out Those Skates and Skis— High
school students, teachers and community recrea-
tion leaders have been invited to attend the first
Winter Sports School at St. Lawrence University
in Canton, New York. A four-day program, De-
cember 20-23, will offer lectures and demonstra-
tions on skiing, hockey, winter camping, outing
club activities and community recreation work.
The Sports School is being sponsored by the Pub-
lic High School Athletic Association of New York
State with the cooperation of the State Education
Department and St. Lawrence University. The
latter’s new 300-acre Snow Bowl Ski Center in
South Colton, New York, will be the scene of the
instructional program and demonstrations.

o

Elderly People Must Play, Too—“. . . Many
an oldster has died before his time simply because
he became bored ‘killing time,’ couldn’t bear idle-
ness and found no reason to live.” So Senator
Thomas C. Desmond, chairman of the joint legis-
lative committee on problems of the aging, urges
that each community in New York State establish
recreation centers for the older folks. Several rec-
reation projects have been started in New York

438

 

City and initial steps have been taken in seventeen
up-state cities. A special advisory committee has
been appointed to assist the Senator’s group in
dealing with the recreation problems of New York
City’s elderly. The committee is to determine
whether state parks can set aside special facilities
and whether state aid for recreation centers for
youths can be supplemented by state assistance for
similar centers for the older groups.
0

Academic Plus Field Training—A four-year
curriculum in recreation leadership and adminis-
tration is in the process of preparation at the Col-
lege of Puget Sound, Tacoma, Washington. A
course in “Playground Leadership” will be offered
in the spring of 1948, a basic course in “Commu-
nity Recreation” will be presented the fall semes-
ter of 1948, and it is eXpected that graduate train-
ing in “Municipal Recreation Administration” will
also be available. Present plans envision a com-
bination of academic work plus field training in
the office of the Tacoma Recreation Commission.
A faculty committee representing the major fields
of study will administer the program, and all of the
departments of the College of Puget Sound will
contribute to the training of prOSpe‘ctive recreation
personnel.

0

Bookkeeping—An analysis of expenditures
for recreation by public and private agencies in
Lincoln, Nebraska, was made 'by the Lincoln Com—
munity Chest for 1946. The following figures are

noteworthy :
ExpenditUre Chest Agencies (13) . . . . ..$447,085.27
Expenditure Public Recreation
Department . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 27,546.00
Attendance private agencies . . . . . . . . . . . . 414,059
Attendance public program . . . . . . . . . . . . 493,556

mum Yw lam m»:

RECREATION

 

 

Community Houses

in Small Towns

ments with reference to a number of commu-
nity buildings in small communities with a
f population of under 5,000—especially their facili-
' ties, management, finances and activities.

THE following is a collection of brie}c state-

Lenox. Massachusetts—This residential commu-
nity of approximately 3,000 has a Neighborhood
House. It is an attractive building in a line setting
and its two stories include a reading room, pool
and billiard room, dance floor, four bowling alleys,
' wood sh0p and several small meeting rooms. At
the rear is an undersized gymnasium‘.

The House was built in 1925 at a cost exceed-
ing $200,000 through the gift of a public-spirited
individual. At the same time an endowment fund
was established for its maintenance and operation.
In addition, family memberships at ten dollars per
year produce some revenue, and charges are also
made for the use of some facilities. In 1946, it was
stated that income was not suflicient _to cover ade-
quately all operating expenses.

The building is under the direction‘ of a man and
his wife who use a portion as living quarters and
who conduct a limited program including ball
leagues and tournaments, bridge, craft ‘classes and
dances. A Girl Scout troop and a Red Cross group

meet in the building. During the midwinter the '

attendance averages about 400 per week, almost
entirely adults. The building is closed during the
summer.

Lyons, New York—The Lyons Community Cen—
ter was formerly the residence of Myron C. Taylor,
who presented it to this village of 3,863 in 1944
together with $15,000 to remodel it into a commu-
nity center. The building contains a small dance
floor, snack bar, game room, youth center, kitchen
and room for the Girl Scouts. The Boy Scouts
meet in the old coach house at the rear. The build-
ing also provides living quarters for the director
and his family. The grounds are deveIOped for a
number of activities.

The Community Center is administered by a
Board of Trustees of thirty-six representing local

DECEMBER 1947

organizations; they elect ten members as a Board
of Directors. A recreation director is employed at
the Center.

Activities have included square dances, parties,”
youth center and craft clubs.

Purchase. New York—This community of 1,500
has a building known as the William A. Read
Memorial House which contains an assembly hall,
library, quarters for the public health nurse, club
rooms, living quarters for the director, and a base-
ment gymnasium which is suitable for only limited
activities. It is a beautiful building and placed in
an attractive setting.

The building, which was reported to have cost
$250,000, was a gift to the community. It was
erected in about 1917. The reported expenditures
for operation and maintenance in 1946 were $1 2,65 7
of which $10,732 came from private funds, $825
from taxes and $1,100 from fees and charges.

The building is administered by a Board of Di-
rectors of seventeen members, nine of whom are
sustaining members and the others are the chair-
men of the standing committees. Memberships in

A beehive of activities for year-round
program — Dalton, Massachusetts.

 

the corporation are under several classifications
varying from a junior member contributing not
less than fifty cents a year to sustaining members
- who contribute not less than $100 a year and hon-
orary members. The building is administered by
a man and wife who serve as c'o-directors.

The program consists of athletics and leagues
in various games, craft classes, a domestic science
group and hobby clubs. Originally designed for
the use of the persons employed on the large estates
in Purchase, it has developed into a community
recreation center.

Dal‘lon, Massachuse‘Hs—Population 4,206. The
Community House in Dalton contains a gymna-
‘sium, swimming pool, club rooms, women’s par-
lor, lounge room and foyer, bowling alleys and
Camp Fire room.

The building, constructed in 1923, was a gift of
members of the Crane family. The land and build-
ing cost approximately $115,000 and supplement-
ing the building was an endowment fund of
$100,000.

The annual operating and maintenance budget
runs about $12,000 per year, of which approxi-
mately one half comes from fees and charges for
activities and facilities, $3,600 from endowment
and the balance from memberships, which are
one dollar per year, or more. All facilities are open
to the public, members and non-members alike,
and any town organization may use the club rooms
or facilities.

Title to the building is held by a Board of Trus—
tees of five recommended by the executors of the
late Senator Crane’s estate and appointed by the
County Probate Judge. The entire responsibility
for operating the building has been delegated to
the Community Recreation Association which
functions through a Board of Governors of thirty-
six members, widely representative of. community
interests.

A diversified program is conducted under the
leadership of a paid director and staff and includes
swimming classes, gym activities, club meetings,
dramatics, lectures, movies, socials, handcraft
classes, high school dances and special events.

Harbor Beach. Michigan—Population 2,186. The
Community Building in Harbor Beach contains a
gymnasium, library,. common room, Scout and
band room, theater, club room, two kitchens and
two rooms for municipal officers.

The present building was erected in 1926 at a
cost of $150,000, of which $100,000 came from
school and municipal funds, $25,000 from gifts and
$25,000 from public subscription. The building re-
placed a remodeled structure which had been given

440

the city in 1919 by the members of a family in
Harbor Beach and which has been remodeled
through funds totaling about $25,000 raised by
public subscription.

The cost of operating and maintaining the build— ‘

ing is carried by the budget of the school district
and funds are raised by school tax supplemented
by profits from the operation of the theater, fees
and rentals. There are no membership dues.

The building is managed by the Board of Edu-
cation, serving as its trustees. Part-time leader—
ship is provided for the program. The theater is
operated by a manager and the library is controlled
by a librarian under the library committee.

A typical week’s program consists of meetings
of Scout groups, basketball and meetings of vari-
ous organizations. Large community meetings and
high school plays are held in the theater.

Waverly. Pennsylvania—This community of 750
population has an attractive building with a gym-
nasium-auditorium and many small rooms used for
scout meetings, bowling alleys, library, clinic-dis-
pensary, crafts and club rooms and apartments
for the director and the janitor.

The building, including an adjoining playground,
was given to the people of Waverly by Helen
Belin in the memory of her husband. The cost
was $275,000. A trust fund was also established
to help maintain the building. The total expendi-
tures for 1946 were $13,954, of which approxi-
mately $1,000 was received from fees and charges.

The building is owned by the township and is
managed by a Board of Trustees elected at an
annual meeting by the contributors to the building
fund. Trustees represent nearly all groups using
the building and nominations are made by the
supervisors and the heirs of the donor.

The building is administered by a full-time di-
rector who has the title of secretary, with part-
time assistants. The typical activities are bowling
by various groups, high school basketball practice
and games, badminton groups, dramatics club,
model railroad club, dances, moving pictures,
parties, scout and club meetings. All facilities are
open to the public use.

Proctor. Vermonf—Population 2,500. The build-
ing known as the Sutherland Community Center
houses game rooms, reading room, gymnasium,
craft room, ladies lounge, kitchen and bowling
alleys.

Erected by the Vermont Marble Company in
1903 at a cost of $36,000, it first served as an
Industrial Y.M.C.A. but in 1919 a new policy and
name were adOpted and membership was opened
to all male company employees and residents of

RECREATION

 

I 

Proctor. Since September 1944, the scope of the
club has been enlarged to include men, women and
high school students.

The expenditures of the club in 1946 were re-
ported to be $15,000, of which $9,100 came from
private funds, $5,100 from tax funds (mostly from
the schools), and the balance from fees and charges.

The club is administered by a board and a full—
time superintendent of recreation is employed as
director with full-time and part-time assistants.

A diversified program is conducted including
handcrafts, a wide variety of games and athletics,
dances, little theater group, music activities, swim-
ming, social recreation, game room and hobby
groups, among others.

CanaioharieI New York—Population 2,577. This
town has a Community Youth Center located in
what was formerly the Masonic Hall. It is com-
modious and attractive and the facilities include a
. two-lane bowling alley, gymnasium with stage,
several lounge rooms, library and eight pool tables.
Across the street is a well-equipped playground.

The building was purchased by the Beech-Nut
Company for use as a youth center. Its total 1947
budget is approximately $10,000 raised through
the community chest but with Beech—Nut con-
tributing about $8,500 of the amount.

The building is administered by a Board of
Directors and there is also an advisory committee
which meets bi-monthly. A full-time director and
male assistant are employed at the Center.

A varied program for youth is carried on includ-
ing crafts, games and sports, danc‘es, game room
activities, motion pictures, social recreation. Un-
like the other buildings previously described, this
Center serves youth only.

The field in foreground is used as playground
in summer. ice rink in winter—Lyons. N. Y.

 

DECEMBER 1947

J

(.

Fenfon, Michigan—Population 4,000. This town
has a Community Center in highly modernistic
design with well—land5caped grounds and beautiful
appointments. Among its facilities are an audi-
torium which seats more than 5,000, dining rooms,
and small rooms for many activities.

The Center was built in 1938 at a cost of $200,-
000. The funds were furnished by the Horace H.
Rackham and Mary A. Rackham Fund which also

' provided the site. The Rackham Fund trustees,

realizing the difficulty that might be imposed upon
the community by the acquisition of such a build-
ing, established a perpetual endowment fund of
$145,000 for the upkeep and operation.

The controlling body for the Center is a Gov-
erning Board of eight members. An Executive
Committee of thirteen plans the program with the
aid of a Social Committee. A full-time director is
employed and several part-time assistants.

The Center serves a variety of uses. Many
group activities are conducted including crafts,
bridge, dramatics, book clubs 'and forums,'a1s0
symphony concerts, athletics, motion pictures and
social recreation. Unusual features include a nurs-
ery school and job service.

Spring LakeI New Jersey—The Memorial Com-
munity House in this community of 1,650 is a
richly furnished building housing the town public
library, a beautiful auditorium seating 480 people, a
reception room and ball room, a general recrea-
ation hall, kitchen and several club and meeting
rooms. It does not contain a gymnasium.

The House was dedicated in 192 3 and was made
possible by a gift to the town of the site valued at
about $40,000 and in excess of $100,000 for the
erection and equipment of the building.

The popular coke bar and a section of fhe
dance floor—Youfh CenterI CanaioharieI N. Y.

441

v ’5’ [I

[A

   

Highly modern design distinguishes
community center in Fen‘lonI Michigan.

A report for the year 1942 indicated that the
total expenditures for the year were $2,168
(largely from private funds).

The House is governed jointly by a board of
seven trustees and a Community Council of citi-
zens interested in the work. Immediate super-
vision of the House is in charge of a director who
serves largely on a volunteer basis.

Little in the way of an organized program is
carried on and the House is used primarily by
local organizations.

Putneyl Vermont—Since 1925, the Community
Center has served this community of 900 residents.
The building, which provides a gymnasium and
meeting rooms, was formerly a church property
and was purchased by. two local residents who
offered it to the town for a recreation center. The
town declined the offer because of the maintenance
expense and the property was then deeded to a
Board of Directors who have continued to sup-
port the center and operate it. A part-time di-
rector has been in charge of the building which is
operated seven or eight months per year.

Funds have been raised largely through local
subscription, supplemented by income from special
events at the center.

Among the activities are a program of sports
for boys and girls, an orchestra, play production,
instruction in sewing and cooking, dances and play
day activities. ,

Sycamore, Illinois—Population 4,702. Memorial
Community Center includes a combined auditorium
and gymnasium seating 1,000, two bowling alleys,
a memorial room used for meetings and dinners, a
swimming pool, kitchen and craft room, among
others.

The building was rebuilt and remodeled from a
former church structure in 1930 with funds secured
through gifts and subscriptions. The title for the
building rests in a Board of Trustees. The 1940

442

 

#

budget was approximately $6,000 of which some-
what more than one-half was received through
taxes and the balance through rentals and fees.
There were no memberships and most of the facili-
ties were free to all.

The management of the building rests with a

Municipal Recreation Commission of five mem-
bers, and the groups using the building have no
special share in the management.
‘ The program, as of 1940, consisted of bowling,
gym groups, camera club, garden club, craft groups,
Scouts, dramatics and dances. A part-time direc-
tor, with part-time assistants, was in charge.

Cha’rham. New York—Population 2,254. The
Morris Memorial Building contains a gymnasium,
four-lane bowling alley, club rooms, teen-age room
and kitchen. It is a well—equipped building and
was used as a U.S.O. community-conducted center
during the war.

The building was erected in 1919 through a
bequest. A small trust fund was also established
'to help maintain the building. The 1947 budget is
nearly $5,000 of which approximately $1,000 each
comes from the Morris Memorial Fund, the Board
of Education, the‘Village Board and the State
Youth Commission, with the balance from indi-
viduals and organizations and fees and charges.

The building is controlled by a Board of Trus-
tees, but the Morris Memorial Association has
been formed to help support it and to administer
the program. Until recently, no trained director
has been employed and activities have been limited.
However, the community has employed a superin-
tendent of recreation and it is contemplated that a
cooperative arrangement will be worked out be-
tween the Recreation Association and the Morris
Memorial group.

Little information is available as to the nature of
the program, but 1946 plans included such activi-
ties as dancing, basketball, bowling, holiday parties,
club meetings and game programs.

 

Don't buy until you see our free. illustrated catalog. Write Today!

WW-

s'ports equipment co.

1 FOND nu LAC, WISCONSIN h
“MOS? A «Ml HH’I'P‘ rI' ulztl‘

RECREATION

     

 

]

l

"AD Free-For-A/Ii’ '

Becomes a Sport

Lee Lindberg

ACK IN THE days when the goal posts were on
B the goal line and the flying wedge was in
vogue, St. Paul, Minnesota, like many cities
throughout the country, was confronted with the
problem of unorganized post—high school football.
It was common practice for players to form teams,
use their old high school plays, and challenge
alumni from other parts of the city. The games,
usually played on Sunday afternoons, were popu—
lar with the local sports fans and attracted sizable
crowds, eager to see their favorite high school
players once more in action.

But it wasn’t really football they watched. It
was a rare occasion when a team came out on the
field fully equipped; lack of organization often led
to dissension. The games were played on level
grassy turf in the parks, and it was seldom that a
game progressed beyond the third ‘quarter before
the contest resulted in a riot, involving and injur—
ing both players and spectators. This was sandlot
football at its crudest4-and its roughest.

. ,_-,
 ‘5.

.: ‘3"

,. .. 'c

“t.- ~
,
in”;

W
{’5

. iii- a:
L
1

Specfa'lors no longer need to
stand along the sidelines to watch.
Each team is ou’rfi’rl'ed with its

own uniform.

DECEMBER 1947

\9 r ' I
. ' , I
- A"

:1:
K.

The city of St. Paul decided that something
had to be done to stop this Sunday slaughter.
It knew that it was impossible to stamp out
amateur football altogether, both through lack of
legislation and public support. There remained
but one alternative: to take post-high school foot-
ball under its own wing and mold it into a league
under the supervision of the Department of Parks
and Playgrounds. Thus, thirty years ago, the Mu—
nicipal Football Association was created.

Today, the games are still played on Sunday
afternoons, but the sight is far different from that
of thirty years ago. With the municipal stadium,
spectators no longer need to stand along the side-
lines to watch the performances. Every team is
equipped and is outfitted with complete uniforms.

. Law and order are maintained by a special police

detail, effecting the disappearance of the former
mid—game riots. As soon as any punches are
thrown on the playing field, the offending players

      

443

immediately are ejected from the game. If a play—
er’s offense is of a more serious nature, such as
striking an official, he is banned from the league
for the remainder of the season. The Municipal
Football Association in St. Paul has restored foot—
ball to its proper place—it has become a sport
rather than a free-for-all.

The city has taken over the financial angle, too.
To procure initial expense money, the Association
enters into a contract with the City Council. The
Association presents the Council with a budget,
indicating how much money will be needed for the
organization of the season’s plans and the registra-
tion of the teams. The Association receives this
amount from the city treasury in the form of a
loan, and when this sum is made up through gate
receipts and profits on refreshments, the money is
returned to the treasury. For example, during the
current year.1947, the Association asked for $434.
After only the fourth game of the season, the
league had made enough, through gate receipts, to
repay this amount. After repaying this initial debt,
the Association sets aside a certain sum for the
payment of officials, gate attendants, parking direc—
tors, refreshment vendors, for trophies, awards,
and ambulance and police protection. The re-
mainder of the money taken in—-clear profit—is
put into the general fund of the city of St. Paul.
Therefore, the city, through its supervision, aids
the league; and the league, through its contribu—

tions to the coffers of the general fund, aids the
city.

Although the Association has made no specific
rule as to how many teams may enter the league
each year, seven or eight usually are accepted, each
representing a different section of the city. The
Association has no authority over the formation of
a team. This is left to the players. Through per—
sonal contact with each other, they agree to form
a team and enter the league. The players of each
team sign a contract and agree to remain with one
team throughout the season. A routine of this sort
eliminates any mid-season shuffiing of players.

After they have formed a team and have ob-
tained coaching, the players then find a “backer,”
that is, the head of some local business establish—
ment who will pay the entry fee and supply jerseys
in return for the advertising and publicity he re-
ceives by naming the team after his business. As
a rule, these sponsors are not difficult to find, and
once secured, are eager to cooperate in every way
with the teams representing them. One team which
appeared to be a likely prospect for the city cham-
pionship in 1947 had as many as six offers from

444

local merchants to act as its Sponsor. Once again,
as in the relationship between the players and the
city, the players help the sponsors through pub—
licity and advertising, and the sponsors help the
players through their financial backing.

The problem of injuries has been met by both
the city and the players. By virtue of funds taken
from the gate receipts, ambulance service is pro-
vided. If a player receives a serious injury, the
policeman on duty at the gate immediately calls
for the city ambulance. By this means, it is possi—
ble to transport an injured player from the stadium
to the hOSpital within fifteen minutes of the time of

' an accident. Approximately eighty—five per cent of

the players take out accident insurance which
covers the cost of injuries up to $500 with an ad-
ditional bonus for more permanent injuries. If a
player does not carry this insurance and is unable
to pay his hospital expenses, he is treated at the
City Hospital. Then his case is reviewed by the
Welfare Board, and if it finds that the player’s
financial status is such that he definitely is in no
position to pay for treatment received, the bill is
scratched from the books.

With the advent of supervision in municipal
football, the quality of competition has improved.
Teams displaying highly integrated and coordi—
nated offenses have supplanted the run-and-hope
tactics of their sandlot predecessors. Former all—
city men, ex-college players and even players who
have served on the varsity team at the University
of Minnesota are seen on the field on Sunday
afternoons. Two St. Paul teams, on consecutive
Sundays when their schedules afforded them Open
dates, played exhibition games with the Chippewa
Falls Marines, a team formerly in—and still affil—
iated with—a Wisconsin semi-professional league.
In both cases, the St. Paul teams returned victori-

ous.

Through supervision and financial guidance,
post-high school football has flourished in St. Paul.
And today it is agreed that the city has raised the
quality of its senior amateur football from the
depths of sandlot to a plane only a step below that
of the Minnesota Small—College Conference. ‘

Late News Flash . . .

Kansas City, Missouri, reports approval by
voters of a bond issue of $2,725,000, “for the con—
struction, development, improvement and equip—
ment of parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and
facilities, community centers, and the acquisition
of lands therefor.”

RECREATION

 

 
 
    
      
   
  
  
   

layton L. Perreault

worker as a citizen.

terest.

B. As a citizen his family is his prime in—
terest.

C. He is not a Jekyll and Hyde—he is the
same person.
(1) He carries part of his job home to
the family. .
(2) He carries part of his family back
to the job.

D. If he and his family are happy and the
job a satisfactory one, he is a happy
and good worker.

E. Good morale comes from both off-and—
on-the-job experiences.
(I) We can send him to work happy,
but his supervisors must see that
his job experiences are happy.

F. We are primarily interested in off-the-
job living.

(I) If we can encourage the worker to
become more interested in his com-
munity 'and its activities, he will
probably become more interested
in his fellow workers and his job.

Cr. Who is this worker we are talking
about?

 He is not a piece of machinery—
he’s you and I.

(2) He is our next door neighbor.

(3) He is the fellow with whom we go

fishing.

(4) He is the fellow with whom we
bowl.

(5) His child sits next to ours in the
classroom.

ECEMBER 1947

ndustrial Recreation
and Community Relations

I. In Industrial Recreation we deal with the

A. As a worker his job is his prime in-

Outline for basic planning, presented
at 29th National Recreation Congress,

Hotel New Yorker, October 13, 1947.

 

H. When we talk about workers, we are
talking about people, we are talking
about citizens of our community, and
we are talking about participants in our
programs.

II. A community industrial recreation program

must be
agency.

a coordinating and a cooperating

A. Existing organizations should not—and
must not—be ignored in planning the
community program.

(I)

They are _an established part of
community life.

B. Co—sponsorships provide strongest proj—

ects.
(I)
(2)
(3)

Let it be somebody else’s idea.
Give credit where due.

Unify the community (draw groups
together).

C. How deeply can our departments go
into the everyday life of the community?

(I)

(3)

When a local church is giving its
Annual Sunday School Picnic, are
you or members of your staff plan-
ning or leading the program?

When a Bicycle Safety Club or
School Boy Patrol is organized,
are you or members of your staff
assisting or leading the program?
When the Woman’s Club is plan—

'ning a vacation tour, are you or

(4)

members of your staff assisting
with reservations and publicity?
When the Girl Scouts take their
annual encampment, do _ you or
members of your staff assist the
committee on arrangements and
then take pictures of their activities
to show at home?

445

(5) When the community plans a
“Living Memorial,” do you or
members of your staff obtain plans
and act as leaders in the campaign?

(6) Does your department publish a
Community Activity publication?

D. Those are just a few of the projects that
every department should fit into—must
fit into —to become an indispensable

_ part of community life. Again, we must
be a coordinating, c00perating agency—
bnt we must go beyond this!

III. A community industrial recreation program
must create and stimulate interests and pro—

vide opportunities for participation in a fuller
community life.

A. W e don’t like what we’ve never tasted.

B. New interests cannot be developed
overnight.

(1) Assembly series to develop into
Artist Series.

(2) Fixit shop to develop into craft
clubs.

( 3) Occasional combined choirs to de-
velop into community chorus.

('4) Jam sessions to deve10p into com—
munity orchestra.

C. \Nhen interest becomes a demand, you
have established an activity—many such
activities make up community life.

D. The department has become a part of
community 1ife——but it can do more—it
can actually become a way of life in the
small industrial community.

Big industry could well follow these precepts in
its individual plant programs, but these efforts

could be most effective if _ steered by an over-all
coordinator.

   
    
    

One Man Folds It. One Minute Does It.

The 1948 Nissen All—One Trampoline (Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.)

wheels away to jiffy storage. Price Complete, F. O. B.
Factory $280.00. Write for Free Literature.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE C0.

200 A Avenue NW Cedar Rapids, Iowa

 
 

 

446

 

    

    
   
   
  
  
  
  
     

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a
good shoe.

O

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 

Now Available!

A Guide for Planning Facilities
for Athletics. Recreation. Phys-
ical and Health Education

  
  

  

A composite guide of 125 pages developed by 65
authorities in a National Facilities Conference spon-
sored by fourteen national agencies and associations.

  

For school superintendents, their boards. park and
recreation leaders, health and physical education
administrators and supervisors, architects, engineers,
and other civic and professional leaders interested
in functional planning of modern facilities.

 
  
 

     

Price $1.50 postpaid

Order from

American Association for Health.

 

Physical Education.and Recreation
l20l l6th St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

01'

The Athletic Institute
209 South State Street, Chicago 4' Illinois

   

 
   
 
 
  

RECREATIO

In the Field . . .
Arthur H. Jones

I. I! r-
—-.-—-—- —

    

ll HERE IS A tremendous interest in recreation
Tin small towns right now. In my opinion,
I small towns are the hope of the country!”
Arthur Jones was Speaking emphatically in his
capacity as a district' representative for the Na-
] tional Recreation Association; but unofficially
“Art,” as his many friends call him, would say
the same thing. He has taken a'keen personal in-
' terest in recreation ever since his school days; and
he is interested in pe0p1e. It is evident that it gives
him great pleasure to be able to be instrumental—
'as a staff member of the Association—in intro—
ducing them to a means of extending the horizons
r of their lives through recreation. PeOple, in their
', turn, respond to his genial concern and informal
Iimanner with friendliness and cooperation.
He is not a cit man at heart Livi h
y . ng as e
does in Charlotte, North Carolina, he prefers to
spend as much time as possible working in the
small towns in his territory, coming to the New
York offices of the Association only once or twice
a year. At present he covers the Carolina’s and
Virginia, although before this year, his area of
i work took in the entire Southeast, as far as Mem-
phis, and for sometime previously it had included
Florida. His chief responsibility as district repre-
sentative of the Association is to advise and help
in the establishment and development of munici-
, pal recreation programs. It is significant that there
are state recreation societies in all three of the

|DECEMBER 1947

states for which he is now responsible. He is
Chairman of the Blue Ridge Institute, Community
Chests and Councils of the Southeast and has been
on the CCC Board for ten years. His recreation
activities are not limited to the Southeast however,
and his interest in recreation for all in its broadest
sense has led him, among other things, to his posi-
tion as a member of the first Administrative Coun-
cil of the American Recreation Society.

Art Jones has been with the National Recrea—
tion Association since 1938 when he,came to that
organization as an experienced recreation worker;
for by that time his enthusiasm and pioneering
spirit already had done much to forward the recre-
ation movement. While still a student in Oberlin
College, he had worked with the YMCA as a staff
member in charge of club organization. This work
continued after he was out of school, totaling about
nine years in all. '

In 1930 he was loaned to the state staff of New
Jersey for the early days of emergency relief.
There he helped to introduce recreation at a time
when many people had little idea as to what it was
all about. They wondered what on earth he pro-
posed to do with the members of what was then
called the “pick and shovel” brigade. Along with
the performance of a basic interpretative job, he
promoted cultural groups among these men, opera
groups, orchestra groups, and so on. Skeptical on—
lookers were amazed when he started activities of
this sort with people on relief jobs.

As the war came on, he was loaned again, this
time to federal service, as staff man for the Federal
Security Agency. Assigned to Fifth Naval Dis-
trict areas, he helped communities organize for
giving recreation service to servicemen. In this
connection he worked closely not only with com-
munity organizations, but with wartime agencies.

It is said of Art Jones that he is a well-rounded
person and it is typical of him that, although
he travels a great deal, he has become a part of
community life in Charlotte. He has been instru-
mental in founding the Children’s Nature Museum
there, and is on the Board of Directors as well as
Chairman of the Program Committee.

His love of home life is demonstrated by his
pride in his three children, by his love of putter-
ing about at home, gardening, building furniture.

“Helping things grow”—whether it be recrea-
tion, gardens or children—is his motto; and obvi-
ously he has done much to put this into practice to
date! He regards as his greatest accomplishment
so far his “three healthy children.” Here is a sub-
ject which could stand expansion. If you don’t
believe it, just ask him!

447

mwfamft
W557i mlnnnns

‘

Iou can't get up, to six times normal wear out

of a ‘Softball with mirrors. But, you can if it's an
Official VOIT C112, with our special patented tough
rubber cover. Not only that, the even better than
prewar VOIT foicial C112 plays right—and most

important stays right.

NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, 1.05 ANGELES 11

 c75ng

RECREATION

 

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
1
Social Recreation

,- RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

    
   
   

‘ RANK STAPLES
* rts and Crafts

ACE WALKER
eative Recreation

1 CEMBER 1947

December, January and February

Goosecreek, Texas
December 8—12

Waco, Texa's
December 15-19

Elkhart, Indiana
January 26—30

Wichita Falls, Texas
February 2-6

Texarkana, Texas
February 9—13

Austin, Texas
February 16—20

San Antonio, Texas
February 23—27

Vermont
December 1-12

Lynn, Massachusetts
January 5-9

Wilmette, Illinois
January 12-16

Highland Park, Illinois

January 19-23

Grand Forks. North' Dakota

December 1-3

St, Joseph, Missouri
December 8-12

Thi'bodaux, Louisiana
December 15-17

Clearwater, Florida
January 5-9

Savannah, Georgia
January 26-30

Ft. Pierce, Florida
February 2-6

Gainesville, Florida
February 9-13

Miami, Florida
February 16-27

Tallahassee, Florida
January 5—16

Daytona Beach, Florida

January 19-30

Jacksonville, Florida
February 2-13

West Palm Beach, Florida

February 16-27

Peoria, Illinois
December 1-12

Battle Creek, Michigan
January 19-February 13

' Dan Stallworth, Secretary-Director, Tri-Cities Ama-

teur Athletic Federation
John Morrow, Superintendent of Recreation

John Higgins, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation
Don Greer, YMCA

Mrs. \Vayne Windle, 1122 Main Street

B. S. Sheffield, Acting Director of Recreation

Miss Lou Hamilton, Superintendent of Recreation

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recrea-
tion, State House, Montpelier

J. B. Hurst, Director, Department of Physical Edu-
cation, YMCA f
Russell A. Perry, Director of Recreation

Howard Copp, Director of Recreaton

Mrs. Frances Kannowski, Superintendent of Parks
Leland Becraft, Executive Secretary, Council of So-

cial Agencies
J. Y. Duncan, Superintendent of La Fourche Recrea-

tion Commission, La Fourche Parish

Eddie Moore, Superintendent of Recreation

H. S. Bounds, Superintendent of Recreation

Ben Bryan

Dwight Hunter, County Director of Physical Educa—

tion and Recreation
Peter Roberts, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Mary Kate Miller, Florida State University
G. F. Robinson, Superintendent of Recreation
N. L. Mallison, Superintendent of Recreation

Ben York, Superintendent of Recreation

Henry Harper, Executive Director, Carver Commu-
nity Center, 715 Spencer Street

John Wood, Director, Hamblin Community Center,
242 Hamblin Avenue

449

      
     
 

.' 3‘ ,1

46 o.
"" . I‘ .J' "
 vow»

  For elementary school

children of all ages; steel construction,
8’ 4" long, 6' 3" wide, with 10’ 6' tower.

 

  For young children;

hardwood construction, 5' 0'square, with
6’ 9' tower. Slide 16' wide by 7' 10' loug,
optional.

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.

 

450

N0 OtherClimhinE No other play device can

Structural” compare with the famous
JUNGLEGYM JUNGLEGYM for safety, for

low maintenance cost, and for
beneficial development of a child’s body
and mind. No other play device can com-
pare for popularity with children them-
selves . . . . for the JUNGLEGYM offers
unlimited opportunities for imaginative
play, and satisties the child’s basic instinct
to climb.

There are scores of other reasons why
thousands of JUNGLEGYMS are in daily
use from coast to coast! For instance, the
JUNGLEGYM accommodates more chil-
dren per square foot of ground occupied than
any other play device, and costs less per;
child accommodated than any other appa-
ratus. N o wonder leaders in education, rec-
reation, health and social work have for a
third of a century called the JUNGLEGYM

“the perfect playground device.”

WRITE FOR PORTER'S COMPLETE RECREATION EQUIPMENT CATALOG
Swings o Seesows o Slides 0 Merry Go Rounds 0 Combinations

“HLPORTER

CORPORATION

OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

RECREATION

5 s . . . . . . .

Questions on——'
Dramatics for Teen-age Youth

Question: Our Bulletin for December car-
ried a consensus of opinion by many recrea-
tion leaders that amateur dramatics do not

appeal to present-day teen-age youth, and that '

there seems to be nothing to do about it. This
has brought a challenging protest from the
Executive Secretary of a Philadelphia settle-
ment, stating that the dramatic program there
is carried on with youth as successfully as
with all other ages. He says:

“We have in operation. at the Centre two
teen-age groups—one junior dramatics unit
and a senior group. Our teen-age groups
range in age from eleven to seventeen and
already have presented two playsn—one for
the children in the Pennsylvania Hospital.”

This “other side of the picture” we would
like to show in our forthcoming Bulletin, and
we earnestly hope that you will be able to
cooperate with us in that, from whatever your
angle of experience is.

A nswer

We do not believe that the teen-age boy or girl
is naturally antagonistic or indifferent to drama.
It is an activity, however, which depends very
largely upon good leadership by someone who
understands this age group and knows what types
of plays, stunts and skits are best suited for its use.
Drama also requires, to some extent, certain types
of facilities and equipment if it is to be effective.

We believe that given adequate facilities and
leadership, teen-agers enjoy dramatics and can do
very thrilling things. We also believe that it is one
of the very best types of recreation for this age

DECEMBER 1947

  
  

level because through this medium of expression
the group can get rid of many frustrations, fears,
feelings of inadequacy, and the like.

We would like to 'mention one other point—the
lack of really interesting short plays for this age
group. Most of the play material listed as suitable
for teen-agers is dull, dry, banal and uninteresting.
A self-respecting teen—ager would certainly have
no desire to take part in it. We do wish some-
thing could be done to raise the standards of suit-
able plays for adolescents.

The Content of RECREATION

Question: I have been somewhat disappointed
in that your magazine, throughout 1947, has
carried very little of actual resource material
for social recreation. By that I mean specific
games and suggestions which the recreation
leader might use effectively in actual work.

However, the last two issues have had two
articles which have been of great help—“Art

Exhibits,” in the October issue, and “A Com-

munity Becomes Acquainted,” 1n the Novem-
ber issue. I liked this latter article because
the writer gave actual program material and
games which are very useful. I mimeographed
the game “Friendship Treasure-hunt” and
used it at one of our adult clubs. It proved to
be of the best get-acquainted mixers which I

have used.
Why not ask leaders in the field of social

recreation to send in a selection of the very
best two or three games which they use in
their work? This would give readers, over a
year’s period, a wide range of games which

have proven very successful in actual experi-
ence. What do you think of this idea? '

Editor’s Note

\Ve would greatly appreciate hearing from our
readers regarding this suggestion.

451

    

Hope and Crosby, in the movies, seldom see eye
to eye.

But there’s one thing they really do agree on
—they both think U.S. Savings Bonds make
wonderful Christmas gifts!

SAYS BOB: “They’re swell for anybody on your
list. You couldn’t pick a nicer, more sensible, more
welcome present. Even Crosby knows that.”

SAYS BING: “I hate to admit it, folks, but Hope
is right. And remember this—you can buy
Bonds at any bank or post office in the U. S. A.”

BOB AND BING (together): “This Christmas, why
not give the iinest gift of all—U.S. Savings Bonds!”

Give the. h’nesl‘gift‘of all . . .03. eAvmes BONDS

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

452 RECREATION

 

American Institute Authors in This Issue

Pa rig Executives Dr. Henry S. Leipcr—Executive Secretary of the

American Committee for the World Council of
Churches. Article on page 417.

Dr. I’Villz'am F. Russell—Dean, Teachers College,
Columbia University. Article on page 421.

Dorothy B. Triage—American Red Cross Recrea-
tion Supervisor, Tilton General Hospital, Fort
Dix, New Jersey. Article on page 427.

Jean and Jess Ogden—Adult Education, Exten-
sion Division, University of Virginia, Char-
lottesville, Virginia. Article on page 429.

Clayton L. Per'reartltéExecutive Director of the
Joanna Foundation, Goldville, South Carolina.
Article on page 445.

 

 

When Thomas Hardy was seventy-six years
old, according to Carl J. Weber in Hardy of
W essex, two forms of recreation still attracted
him. One was cycling, and the other was “old
church and dance music.”

 

Charles E. Doell

 

 

HARLES E. DOELL of Minneapolis and Paul V.
Brown of Indianapolis were recently elected
president and vice-president respectively of the
American Institute of Park Executives. The an-
nual election of officers and two directors was held
on September 24 at the San Francisco Convention.
A member of the Institute for over twenty-five
years, Charles Doell started in park work during
his school days, in 1911. Working continuously
for the Minneapolis Park Department-—except for
a period of service in the first World War—~—he
progressed from assistant engineer to assistant
superintendent and in August 1945 became su-
perintendent. During his long period of Institute
membership, Charles Doell has served the organi—
zation in several important capacities, has taken
part in numerous convention programs and has
served on Institute committees.

The new vice-president, Paul V. Brown, was
superintendent of state parks in Indiana and assis-
tant director of the Indiana Conservation Depart-
ment until “1943. He is now director of parks and
recreation at Indianapolis.

Earl F. Elliot was reelected to the office of
treasurer and George L. Chesley of New Britain,
Connecticut, and George I. Simons of Atlanta,
Georgia, were elected directors of the Institute for
the next three years. ‘

   

  

if ' «admo- ? A,
I - “5542553

   

‘ S

..
. r z.-. r .7.

    
  
   

for
Every Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

     

. 'j I" -
t:- i 'w,‘
t._

~.r]: °r'-sfs'rté

  

flit Fin/£57 IN I”! FIILD I
MANMACIUIING comm"

      

I 51'. LOUIS 3. M0.

   

DECEMBER 1947 ' 453

 

Charles S. Weston

IIARLES S. WESTON died at his home in

Scranton, Pennsylvania, on October 14,

1947, at the age of eighty-seven. For over a

half century he held and treasured the highest

respect and affection of his fellow citizens in Scran—

ton. His local leadership in civic affairs and in

banking, business and industrial circles was appre-

ciated far beyond the borders of his home city and
his native Pennsylvania.

Mr. Weston served on the Board of Directors
of the National Recreation Association from 1927
to 1932. For three years prior to that period, and
through all the years since 1932, he had been an
honorary member of the Association. He was an
ardent supporter of the Association’s work. He
believed in it so heartily that he not only gave his
personal support, but also persuaded many others
to help. For twenty-three consecutive years he Charles S. Weston gave recreation its start in
helped in the Scranton area to raise mOney for ' Scranton. Pennsylvania
the Association’s annual budget. His own gifts
were very generous, but they were multiplied
seven—fold through his appeals to others.

Friends said that his hobby was community rec-
reation, for he was the pioneer who gave recreation
its first start in Scranton and gave it a further
helping hand as needed. With his sister, Caroline
Weston Bird, he gave Weston Field to the city in
1915 in memory of their parents, and followed this
later with other gifts, including Weston Park.

Even though life for him was filled with civic
and business activity, Mr. W eston managed to find
a little time now and then for the personal recrea-
tions he enjoyed. Among these were fishing, golf-
ing, shooting and yachting. He liked watching
such events as the finals in the local marbles con-
test. He possessed a delightful sense of humor.
He was modest, shunning the spotlight of pub—
licity. Few men understood the full meaning of
the recreation movement as well as Mr. Weston.

In an editorial tribute on his eighticth birthday
in 1940, the Scranton Times said, “No man in

 

Scranton’s recent history has made a deeper im— In every new of sport a. Profes-
pression upon the community than Mr. Weston.” 
On the same occasion, when the children of Scran— 333‘::gdlmzjjh";:r:g:
ton honored him with “Weston Day” on the play— Mafercsareeoldgmith Sports
grounds, the Scranton Tribune observed that “In 3.1.3:"::aiaiogangduZLiE:

performance.

a world busy with plans for death and destruction,
in a time of grave concern and uncertainty, hun-
dreds of children in gay costumes assembled here
to sing and dance.”

, ‘   1216’. "tff";"t:-‘r'-'

I'.
I, ‘ I.
"‘.uli-\ u I. .nl' I --
u u r. - . '

CTHC!NNATI14 onlo.u. 5‘ A.

 

454 RECREATION

I Answers to "Quiz-Mas C5reetings,’l page 425

1. Yellow predominates; it is the Chinese color symbol-
izing joy, happiness, and peace.
. Gifts of leis of roses, gardenias, ginger—blossoms, etc.
3. This play, symbol-izing the wanderings of the Holy
'I: Family, is enacted for eight nights, ending with
_ Christmas Eve.
. New Year’s Eve.

n The household servants sit in state at the family-
table, and are waited on by members of the family
who humble themselves in true Christian spirit by
serving those who have served them so faithfully
during the year.

. The drink is concocted of roasted apple juice and

milk. I

. On one large almond, which portends good fortune

for the tinder in the months to come. The finder is

entitled to a gift.

’ . Oak and laurel branches.

. They fast all day.

. Hot punch.

. They break the ice and gaze into the water to see

their future reflected.

. Christmas Eve supper is more important than the

Christmas dinner. The custom is to go'from cafe to

cafe, taking one course at each, hailing friends, and

finishing up with early-morning coffee.

3. Lionel Barrymore.

4. Currier and Ives.

5. General Grant National Park, California.

. No. The Puritans thought of it as sacrilegious and

forbade its celebration for twenty-two years.

. Thomas Nast.

. There are three islands by this name. One lies in the

Pacific Ocean, one in the Indian Ocean, and one is

near Cape Breton, Canada.

 

  
  
  
  
      
 
 

Books Received

I nimal Homes, by George F. Mason. William Morrow

I and Company, New York. $2.00.

hemi, the Magician, by Ruthie Duskin. Dodd, Mead and

I Company, New York. $2.50.
inger-Painting and How I Do It, by Ruth Faison Shaw.
House of Little Books, New York. $1.00.

irl Alive!, by Frances Ullmann. The World Publish-

. ing Company, Cleveland and'New York. $2.00.

irl Scout Handbook. Girl Scouts, National Organiza-
tion, New York. $1.00.

ridiron Challenge, by Jackson Scholz. William Morrow
and Company, New York. $2.50.

ow to Interpret Social Welfare, by Helen C-o-dy Baker

and Mary Swain Routzahn. The Russell Sage Foun-

dation. $2.50.
dy and Jim, .4 Paper Doll Story Book, by Hilda Mi-

loche and Wilma Kane. Simon and Schuster, Incor-

porated, New York. $1.00.
ature Lover’s Knapsack, Th'e, edited by Edwin O.
'I' gsrgger. Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New York.
' - ~ Encyclopedia of Sports, The, by Frank G. Menke.
$5.  Barnes and Company, Incorporated, New York.
ants, by Herbert S. Zim. Harcourt, Brace and Com-
' pany, New York. $3.50.
: You Want to Help People, by Rudolph M. Witten-
'berg. Association Press, New York. $3.00.
outh After Conflict, by Goodwin Watson. Houghton
Miftlin Company, Boston, Massachusetts. $3.50.

  
  

  
 
    
     
    
    
       
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

l

1-

ECEMBER 1947

 

What id #12

PERFECT SPORT?

What sports or recreations will be most popular
five, ten years from now? We don’t know, but we
can hazard some guesses based on what existing
sports offer the participants. Aside from large-scale
promotions, we think probably the perfect sport
would rate high on all these features:

I. Universal appeal.
I 2. Broad participation base.
3. Fairly easy to learn.
4. Out-ot-doors.
5. Involving both luck and skill.

Is archery the perfect sport—destined to be the
first participation sport of the American people in,
say, the 1950’s? No one can predict with certainty.
But we do know two things:

I. Archery checks out against any list of qual-
ifications tor the perfect sport, at least in
the opinions of those educational directors
with whom we have talked so tar.

2. Archery has grown steadily in public favor.

So, if you are interested in a group sport with the
broadest possible appeal—at relatively low cost—why
not investigate archery? We’ll gladly help you plan ~
and start your program, and furnish you with bulk
supplies of instructional literature. Just write for our
free advisory service which is maintained for exactly
that purpose.

WFF'EW .1”.

INCOR

PINE BLUFF, ARKANSAS

 

455

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Playmaking With Children

By Winifred Ward. D. Appleton-Century Company, New
York. $2.50.

HERE IS THE answer to the prayer of the recreation
director who wishes to learn how to guide boys and
girls in creative dramatics-that informal kind of drama
created by the players themselves. No bag of theories
this—but a practical down-to-earth guidebook based on
years of experience in public education and children’s
drama.

The wholesome philosophy of this creative activity is
part of the story. Included also is the technique to make
the philosophy workable—concrete illustrations on how to
choose, present and dramatize a story—how to integrate
the arts through drama—and annotated lists of story
material for all age groups from kindergarten through
junior high school. Recreation leaders who work with
handicapped children will find in the chapter, “Playmak-
ing and Therapy,” excellent means of bringing new hap-
piness and security to their groups.

Directors of playgrounds, camps, teachers of religious
education, social workers, scout leaders will discover, if
they ‘"try, that children respond with great enthusiasm
to creative drama—and try it they will if once they delve
into this rich, exciting adventure in playmaking. The
author’s joy in her life’s work is sure to kindle the same
fire in the reader who believes that recreation has a (bigger
job to lill than just being a time-passer.

Here is a for-m of recreation that is creative, a form of
drama which has as its objective not the deve10pment of
the exceptional child but the development of the excep-
tional in every child.

Miss Winifred Ward, the author of Playhtaking with
Children, is at the present time assistant professor of
dramatic production, Northwestern University, super—
visor of dramatics in the elementary schools of Evanston,
Illinois, and director of the Children’s Theatre of
Evanston.—Agnes Haaga, Director, Seattle Children’s
Recreation Project.

Music Education Source Book

The Music Educator’s National Conference, Chicago,

Illinois. $3.50.

HOSE INTERESTED IN developing musical activities in

community centers will find valuable pointers in the
Music Education Source Book, which has been edited by
Hazel Nohavec Morgan. Many of the activities included
are adaptable to non-school groups, among them piano
and other instrumental instruction classes, choral groups,
creative expression, concerts for children and young peo-
ple, music libraries, radio and audio-visual ai-ds generally.
The book is based on the well deliberated opinions and
recommendations of music supervisors and teachers in the
respective departments of music education, and will have
meaning for the recreation worker even if his objectives
do not always coincide with those of the educator. In
addition he can benelit from the carefully selected bibli-
ographies and from such other sections as those on music
history and appreciation, diction and speech, competition

456

festivals, problems of the rural school, singing voice 4
the pre-school child, music in industry, functional aspe
of. music in hospitals, codes of ethics in public relatio
for private music teachers, professional musicians a
others, use of sound lilms, and recording equipment.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMEN
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT 0
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AS AMENDED B
THE ACTS OF MARCH 3, 1933, AND JULY 2, 1946,
Ilincnimirrog, published monthly at New York, N. Y., for Oct
er 1, 94 .

STATE or NEw YORK
COUNTY or NEw YORK 5‘"

Before me, a Notary Public, in and for the State and count
aforesaid, personally appeared ROSE J. SCHWARTZ, who havin
been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that she i
the Business Manager of RECREATION, and that the following i:
to the best of her knowledge and belief, a true statement of th
ownership, management (and if a daily, weekly, semiwcekly o
triweekly newspaper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publi
cation for the date shown in the above caption, required by th
act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the acts of March 3, 1933
and July 2, 1946 (section 537, Postal Laws and Regulations)
printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, man
aging editor, and business managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue
New York 10, N. Y.

EXditor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10
N. .

Managing Editor: None.

Business Manager: Rose J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, Nev
York 10, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name an:
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the name
and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent 0
more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a Corporation, th.
names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. I
owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, it
name and address, as well as those of each individual member
must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, Nev
York 10, N. Y.

F. W. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemis, Boston
Mass.; Edward C. Bench, Englewood, N. J.; Mrs. Robert Wood
Bliss, Wlashington, D. C.; Howard Braucher, New York, N. Y.
Henry L. Corbett, Portland, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, Jack
sonville, Fla.; William H. Davis, New York, N. Y.; Harry P
Davison, New York, N. Y.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.
Robert Grant, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.; Austin E. Grifhths
Seattle. Wash.; Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitchburg, Mass; Mrs
Charles V. Hickox, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. John D. Jameson
Sugar Hill, N. H.; Susan M. Lee, New York, N. Y.; Otto T
Mallery, Philadelphia, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken, Augusta Me.; Mrs
Ogden L. Mills, Woodbury, N. Y.; Paul Moore, Jr., New York
N. Y.; Mrs. Sigmund Stern, San Francisco, Calif.; Grant Tits

- worth, Noroton, Conn.; J. C. Walsh, New York, N. Y.; Frederic]

M. Warburg, New York, N. Y.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amoum
of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, sc
state.)

None (non-profit organization.) ,

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of th:
owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain 1101
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appeal
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stock
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the company
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the
person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given;
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing
afi‘iant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and con-
ditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not
appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and
securities in a capacity other than that of a bona tide owner; and
this afiiant has no reason to believe that any other person, associa.
tion, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said
stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by her.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publi-
cation sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to pai
subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date shown
above is (This information is required from daily, weekly, semi.
weekly, and triweekly newspapers only.)

Rose J. Scnwan'rz.
1 S7worn to and subscribed before me this 00 day of SeptemberI
94 .
MIRIAM S. C..DOCHTERMANN,
Notary Public, Nassau County.

Nassau County Clerk’s No. 376, Certificate Filed in New Yorl
County. Clerk’s No. 320. Register’s No. 27-D-8. My Commissio
expires March 30, 1948.

RECREATIO

y 1515 LANE STREET

 

DEMOCRACY WILL BE
SAVED IN OUR SCHOOLS

Make your school outstanding as an experience in

“happy, profitable working-together”

Give your students and teachers these helps

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS—Current thought of leaders
in the held of democratic group activities.

SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES—An assembly program for
each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic
productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS—Dinections for the success-
ful guidance of school groups.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES—Suggestions for financing
student functions.

ATHLETICS—News and ideas on late developments in
intramural and interscholastic sports.

DEBATE—Both sides of the current high school debate
question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS—Instructions and aids in the
directing of school clubs of all types.

HOME ROOMS—Ideas and plans for educative home
room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating
loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS—Guidance in the produc-
tion of school newspaper and yearbook.

PARTIES AND BAN QUETS—Suggestions for educa-
tive and Wholesome social activities.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT—Sound direction in the
development of student sense of responsibility.

MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commence-
ment, point systems, etc. “

Each month “School Activities” will bring you timely material by

authorities in these fields.

Subscription price $2.50
Subscribe Now!

School Activities

TOPEKA, KANSAS

I Heard the Bells on
Christmas Day

I heard the bells on Christmas day
Their old familiar carols play,

And wild and sweet the words repeat
Of “Peace on earth, good will to men!”
And thought how, as the day had come,
The belfries of all Christendom

Had rolled along th’ unbroken song,

Of “Peace on earth, good will to men!”
And in despair I bowed my head;
“There is no peace on earth,” I said
“For hate is strong and mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good will to men!”
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep:
“God is not dead; nor doth He sleep!
The wrong shall fail, the right prevail,
With peace on earth, good will to men!”

—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

 

