 

April 1947
Playground Issue

 

Vol. XLI. No. l ‘ " " Price 35 Cents

 

 RECREATION !

 

A Last Will, by Williston Fish . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Corinne Fonde, by Marguerite Turner. . . 24
RECREATIONwBird’s-Eye View . . . . . . 3 Fly-Tying for Recreation, by Walter S.
Nichols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 27
Playgrounds 1946 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
 a _. . - I “No Trouble at All, by Catherine F.
Winning Spirit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .‘~. :: . 8 . '. .
. Weikart  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..._..: . . . . . . . .. 34
" 'I",b R.A.B tt . . . . . .. 9 -‘.::;.:. :31. .;=
Story Of SporteSf y m on . Now Off the Press . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 40
' ............................. .. 11 ' ' 3- -'
Paradise Magazines and Pamphlets. .' . . . . . . . . . . . .. 40
t ° f ",b V.C.K 1 ...13    '
To 800 With sa ety y .. noqw es ' Paul P.'Harris .  . . . ._ ... . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  42
' gKids Fomg’éc  ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ° '1'  '  ' °   ° " 15' Frederick Noble Evans . . .  . . . . . . . . 43
"Day Camps in St- Louis BY Luff“? Smith wan at; Play  .. ....   .... .. 44
Friedli  ....... “.16 _   .  ' _ .‘
I ' 'i ' " in... . George, W. _Ehler . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47

Detroit’s Day Clamp, by im Schultheis. . . 20  . 3 _. . . .
v ‘7 " ' New PublicatiOns in the Leisure

Rec-Riesta, by Carol'Pulcifer. . . . .' (I  . . . .22 Timé'Fiel'd ........  ...........  4s

_‘

 

Birthday wishes to the National Recreation Association are in order ‘ "

n
J

this month. The Association ibiIqu {1 years did on April 12, 1947

‘h‘

‘

 

RECREATION is published Inonthly by and in the interests of the National Recreation Association. formerly named Play-
ground and Recreation Association of America, at 315 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. N. Y.: is on tile in public libraries
and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12, 1929. at the Post
Office in New York. New York,_ 'unldm‘ Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for; mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1. 1924,.

Copyright 1 94 7. by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated

PRINTED IN THE U. S.A. _
VOLUME FORTY-ONE. NUMBER ONE - . ' «.1.

 
      
   
  

A "Last. Wt}! wot. wrttten m l897 by
Willitton' Fish. It. is .- reprinted here in
tribute to the - creati/ve imagination that
raw-Jo deeply into the needs of young
people, and foreshadowed by half a cemmy
the nation-wide effort to mpplfy those need!

     
 
 
  

  

  

  

- I, J l

- //

9

//%

/ ,,
///////”

    

WAS stronger and cleverer, no doubt, than other men, and
in many broad lines of business he had grown rich, until his
wealth exceeded exaggeration. One morning, in his omce.
he directed a request to his confidential lawyer to come to '
him in the afternoon—he intended to have his will drawd.
A will is a solemn matter, even with men whose life is given I
up to business, and who are by habit mindful of the future.
After giving this direction he took up no other matter, but
sat at his desk alone and in silence.

It was a day when summer was first new. The pale leaves upon the
trees were starting forth upon the yet unbending branches. The grass
in the parks had a freshness in its green like the freshness of the blue in
the sky and of the yellow of the sun,—a freshness to make one wish
that life might renew its youth. The clear breezes from the senth wan-
toned about, and then were still, as if loath to go finally away. Half
idly, half thoughtfully, the rich man wrote upon the white paper before
him, beginning what he wrote with capital letters, such as he had not made
since, as a boy in school, he had taken pride in his skill with the pen:

 

1

paragraphs ago, those accusations are justified.
Sometimes, however, they are not justified by the
facts. As a matter of interest, therefore, we are
including here an analysis of the feature stories
that appeared in RECREATION from January 1946
through January 1947.

Arts and crafts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Camping and hiking . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Church  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Community centers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Drama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Education-recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

Gardening . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l

Hobbies . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .. 5

Inter—group activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Layout and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Leadership and training . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Memorials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

Museums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . 2

Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Nature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Philosophy of recreation . . . . . . . . . .. 7

Programs-in-action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10

Publicity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1

Reading and libraries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

Radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6

Recreation for the elderly . . . . . . . .  3

Recreation for the workers . . . . .  . 1
Recreation for the armed forces. . .. 3
Recreation in institutions . . . . . .  . . . 3

Recreation in small towns . . . . . . . . . .. 1

Rural recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Social recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Special day programs . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6

Sports, games and athletics . . . . . . . . . 12_

Youth programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

For Contributors

The more articles you send us, the better maga—
zine we can send you. It is to be hoped, therefore,
that’ the two words in bold type at the head of this
section will come to mean all of you. There are one
or two facts that we’d like all you potential con-
tributors to know because these facts will save time
and energy all around.

!Many of you have, as readers, indicated your
preference for short articles—. articles which can
be read, marked, learned, and inwardly digested in
the relatively short reading time at the disposal of
busy people. So we suggest that, wherever pos—
sible, you keep your stories within a limit of 1,500
to 1,800 words. This is not to say, however, that
if you need 2,000 or 2,100 words to speak your
piece the way it should be written the material will
not be considered.

Good action photographs are very gratefully re-
ceived. We are always on the lookout for excel-

4

lent pictures of people doing things. If pictures
are submitted, they should be glossy prints and,
like the artcles, they cannot be paid for.

Material 'should reach the editor’s desk at least
six weeks before publication date. This, of course,
is especially important to remember if you are
sending in seasonal material. Remember, too, that
we try to anticipate special occasions by at least a
month. Hallowe’en material appears in the Sep-
tember issue, suggestions for the Christmas pro-
gram in November, and so on. We cannot promise,
sight unseen, to publish everything that reaches us._
We can and do promise to send you a letter tell-
ing you why ive turn down your material—if we
have to turn it down.

Toward the Future

Some of you have been good enough to send us
suggestions about changes you would like to see
in the magazine. We are grateful indeed for all
your ideas, and we’ll welcome them any time you
want to send them along. Some we have incorpor-
ated into our editorial policy. Others we have
had, regretfully, to leave alone. In nearly every
case this let-it-be policy has been dictated by
finances—or the lack of them. The magazine’s
production costs are now greater than ever before.
It is not, therefore, currently possible to use such
attractive but very expensive features as color,
cartoons and the'like. Increased circulation, with
its corollary of increased advertising, is one answer
to more interesting issues. Until the time comes
when circulation reaches the place where it will
attract advertisers, the luxury items of publishing
must, for RECREATION, remain in a dream state.
We are working “tooth and nail” to reach this
point and we are making progress. Any of you
who are interested can help us by following the
slogan that used to hang on a hair-dresser’s wall
many years ago—long before the time of the
“Beauty Salon.” The slogan read “If you like me
tell others, if you don’t tell me.”

An editor had cause to admonish his son be-
cause of the lad’s reluctance to attend school.

“You must go every day and learn to be a great
scholar,” said the fond father, “otherwise you can
never be an editor. What would you do if your
magazine came out full of mistakes P”-

“Father,” was the reply, “I’d blame the printer.”

And the father wept with joy, because he knew
he had a successor for the editorial chair.

RECREATION

 

Playgrounds 1946

Spotlight on Energy and Imagination

 

UMMERTIME IN 1946 was playtime for hun-
S dreds of thousands of Americans. Automo-

biles were rolling again. Parks and beaches
were full of men and women and children with
nothing on their minds and a holiday gleam in
their eyes.

And playgrounds were full—full of small peo»
ple and large people, young people and middle—
aged people and old people. Staffs, war-drained
for the past few years, were back to their normal
complement of leaders; had, in some cases, in-
creased in response to the increasing demand for
community recreation. Returned servicemen and
women were finding opportunities to try out new
ideas. The reports of summer playground activi~
ties from every part of the country reflected a
new spirit of energy, a fresh eagerness to get at
the job and do it well. Playgrounds in 1946 “gave

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, M ontclair, N. J.

themselves a shake, shake, shake, and turned
themselves about.”

In the short compass of a page or two of maga-
zine print, it isn’t possible to point with our kind
of avuncular pride to all the excellencies the sum-
mer produced. What follows is a running comment
culled from many reports, a composite picture of a
summer patched together from many programs.

Themes andASpecial Occasions

There were more ideas for themes—for the
whole season and for each week in the season-—

 

APRIL 1947-.

"g

than you could shake a whole hedge of sticks at.
One community built the program around a United
Nations Summer. The seven playground weeks
were assigned to Great Britain, China, France,
Australia, South America, Russia, America. Each
country was highlighted on its proper occasion by
a quiz and national stories, games and songs woven
through the usual activities on the grounds.

Hi! Neighbor week seemed to be a pretty gen—
eral favorite for a starter. Many communities
stressed getting acquainted, and quickly, not only
with the children who would be coming over and
over to the grounds but with the neighborhoods
which each ground served. Leaders were urged to
make neighborhood visits. One playground di-
rector suggested for first week special events a Hi!
Neighbor party, a name party or an autograph
hunt. Again and again playground leaders’ man—
uals talked about family participation—-father and
son teams and games, mother and daughter activi-
ties. “The playground is for the whole neighbor—
.hood, not just for the small fry,” runs like a
ground bass beneath the summer’s play tunes.

Special events were, in general, planned with
ingenuity and imagination. Some leaders found
inspiration for program highlights in local history
and folklore or in the signs of local geological
events that were shaking the world long before the
first man came along to record history. Others

,, .
- . a 3‘ i w ,v 1' ‘ °‘ " ‘
(m “z o " '
.- +' "' -' a. - "
4.‘ _. .x y d \ t . ' .~
., _ , _ .
i i" ' i "i i '

.   w .  - aJ-ir‘ " t v ‘  ,
J- ’*°?*"‘“.%A“WMWL ‘mwmmw.m$5mmWW-w  W ' "‘    

 

\"

adapted tested playground procedures to new
moods and new uses.

One city made a survey of the special events
used on its 48 playgrounds. Rather to their own
amazement, staff members found that in one week
there were 85 different kinds of special’programs.
Included in this list were such intriguing activities
as a book hike, a bubble—blowing contest, bug and
insect races, a hodge-podge day, a pigtail style
show and freckles contest.

The moral of the sum of all the reports seems to
be that where imagination is in the driver’s seat
there is no speed limit for program movement.

All Together

Many playground executives were putting their
minds to the job of mixing neighborhood ingredi-
ents .now and again in a community—wide broth.
One city department, in its pre-season instructions
to playground leaders, suggested a list of activities
to be carried on at individual playgrounds and an-
other list of community-wide activities. Field days,
play days, and play festivals were other services
used to bring many groups together for an “all
together” occasion.

In one city children were picked up at their
nearest neighborhood playground and driven to a
central place where they took part in this varied
schedule of events:

    

C ourteM: Recreation Department, M o-ntclas'r, N. I.

RECREATION

10:10 Skip rope race (girls)
10:20 Kangaroo race ('bOys)
10:30 One-foot hopping race (girls)
10:40 50 yd. dash (boys)
10:50 50 yd. dash (girls)
11 :00 100 yd. dash (boys)
11:10 Horseshoe tournament
Tether ball tournament
11:15 Ping-pong tournament (boys and girls)
Volleyball tournament (team from each park)
11 :30 Newcomb tournament (team from each park)
Box hockey tournament (boys and girls from
each park)
11:45 Checkers (boys and girls)
Chinese checkers (boys and girls)
Croquet (boys and girls)
Washers (boys and girls)
Jacks (girls)
12:00 Lunch (children bring sack lunches, drinks fur-
‘ nished by the recreation department)
1 :00 Nature quiz
1 :15 Storytelling
1:45 Tug-o—war

When the field meet was over the children had
an hour or so of play in the wading pool before
they were returned to their re3pective parks.

Another city held its thirteenth annual recrea—
tion festival on June 7, 8, and 9. “This festival,”
says the program, “marks the opening of the sum-

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, M ontclair, N. I.

APRIL 1947

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, M ontclair, N. I.

mer playground season. It is held at this season of
the year to inform our citizens of the facilities
available in the city for occupying the time of their
children in recreational activities. It also serves to
acquaint the adult population . . . with the splendid
facilities which we have here for recreation and
sports activities for people of all ages.” During-the
three days, the city’s parks and playgrounds
paraded their promises for summer enjoyment.
The activities listed in the program included box-
ing and fly—casting and golf; baseball and softball;
badminton, archery and tennis; square dancing
and boating, by motor or sail; star gazing and
music; visiting the zoo and swimming; crafts and
games and cooking and parties and recreative

sports.

Another town chose a twilight play festival in
late August as the occasion and the time when all
playgrounds should meet to demonstrate their pro-
grams and their skills for the whole community.
The youngsters gave impressive exhibits of folk
dancing and games, relays and skits, arranged to
show how boys and girls of all ages were Spending
parts of their vacation. Another exhibit was set up
to show the craft fruits of the grounds.

Safety .

Safety was a veryereal consideration in the sea-

son. Report after report emphasizes safety rules,
stresses the absence of accidents or their small 7-

7

number. One department took for its slogan ‘fPlay'
Today and Tomorrow,” got out an attractive,
mimeographed safety bulletin for its playground-
ers. The bulletin pointed out that safety can be fun
and proceeded to show how this fact could be
demonstrated by safety clubs which would hold
regular meetings and adopt a safety project. Each
club would keep a record of all accidents on its
ground and would discuss them and analyze their
causes. The bulletin suggested games for stressing

safety and I7 safety projects among which were:

Poster and slogan contests

Puppet shows
Constructing first aid lb0xes

Scrap rbooks
' Quiz programs

In” Making up safety “nursery” rhymes
The rest of the bulletin was given over to safety
rules to be followed when using playground ap-

paratus and equipment.

Publicity
Many heads were scratched, many brains
wracked, many thinking headgears donned last
spring over the question of setting the whole town
to talking about playgrounds. Probably the most

generally used media of communication were news- ,
papers and radios. Many communities found that .

their playgrounds were basically good copy for the
city editor. And, with the war pressure off public
service radio programs, more and more play-
grounds went on the air for 15 or 30 minutes a
week. The increase in the number of playgrounds
reporting radio programs was so marked as to in-
dicate a more or less general trend toward this
combination of publicity and activity program.

Some cities worked out supplementary kinds of
publicity. The recreation section of a council of
social agencies worked out a summer schedule of
activities sponsored by youth serving agencies and
recreation groups. It included such activities as
band concerts, baseball, camping and day camping,
co-ed activities, daily vacation Bible school, iish-
ing, handcrafts, hiking, picnic areas, playgrounds,
swimming programs, training courses. A recrea-
tion department issued a bulletin titled Sugges-
tions to Parents, designed to help mothers and
dads help their children find wise and happy vaca-
tion fun. “The use of free time,” said this bulletin,
“can make or break anybody, child or adult. The
influences which determine how it will be used are
many. But the home and parents are probably the
most potent influences. To be able to guide young
people in their choices when they confront leisure,
parents need some knowledge of ways and means,
understanding of children’s interests and a lot of
imagination.” The bulletin then listed things to do
in the home, in the backyard and away from home
with the whole family. In still another town every
resident received each week a copy of the Playo-
gram, an attractive one-page bulletin which car-
ried each week’s program and one or more photo-
graphs taken on the playgrounds.

80 went a summer with games and revels and
high good times. There was more, much more, of
imagination and energy and ingenuity. This sam-
pling of some of the many reports that came into
the National Recreation Association’s offices will,
we h0pe, raise a small fire in the hearts of all rec-
reation workers everywhere—and, perhaps, sug-
gest some fresh approaches for Playgrounds, I 947.

 

Winning Spirit

THE SPIRIT THAT WINS was recently manifested by a small boy who was learning to skate with a number
of older playmates. The frequent mishaps of the little fellow awakened the pity of a tender-hearted

woman.

“Why, Sonny, you are getting all bumped up,” she said. “Come up here and watch the others

skate.”

The tears of the last downfall were still rolling down his glowing cheeks, but he looked from his
adviser to the shining steel of his feet, and answered: “I didn’t get some new skates to give up with;
I  i’e'm- to learn how with!”—The Benefitter. Safety Division, Globe Oil and Refining C 0., Wichita,

Kama...

8

RECREATION

l

N JANUARY 1946, a member of the-Columbus
Junior Chamber of Commerce, after attending
a state meeting of the Ohio State Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce, got the idea that more could be
done for the youth of Columbus. His idea was a
program in the summertime when youngsters do
not have the aid of school curriculum and school
recreation programs to fulfill their time.

Before presenting his plan to his organization,
this Jaycee member had a long talk with the head
of the City of Columbus Recreation Department
about the possibilities of using Jaycee man power
to aid the city recreation program. It was suggested
that perhaps the Jaycees might spend some time
on the playgrounds deve10ping an activity which
could extend from one visit to the next and thereby
create interest that would bring about a back-to-
the-playground-and-off—the—street migration of the
kids. It was felt that the war years had permitted
little more than a policing of the playgrounds, in-
stead of planned programs with proper recreation
leadership. This feeling was verified by the recrea-
tion executive and his wholehearted support was
given to any plan which the Junior Chamber of
Commerce might follow. He suggested the possi-
bility of following a plan inaugurated by the Na-
tional Amateur Athletic Union in their Junior
Proficiency Tests as a good guide for starting a
program.

Three days later, at a luncheon with the presi—
dent and the board members of the Junior Chamber,
a possible plan for organizing a summer youth pro-
gram was outlined and approved.

An interesting committee was set up with five
time—tested Jaycee workers, four new members and
four returning veterans. From this nucleus sprang
the success of the summer youth program.

The committee first met on March 21 and at
that time, the chairman outlined his program and
asked the committee for suggested changes that
might develop its possibilities. At this meeting, the
importance of publicity and supervision was out-
lined. The pr0per publicity men were chosen.
Supervision was charged to two returning veterans
who had had physical training experience in the
Navy. The other member was a former all Big
Ten football player at Ohio State University.

A complete planning meeting was called on
April 16 where the whole structure of the “sum-
mer youth program” was outlined and dates for
its start and completion were set. It was decided
to have an orientation meeting of workers for the
purpose of training. At this meeting, too, it was
decided that a fitting name for the program should
be decided upon, and a contest was planned among

APRIL 1947

The Story

of

Sportest

By R. A. BRATTON
Columbus. Ohio

Volunteers from the
Jaycees lend a hand
on the playgrounds

 

the Jaycee members for selection of this name. It
was decided to take over the regular Junior
Chamber May 2 luncheon as the “Kick-off Lunch-
eon” when a prize would be given for the winning
name.

Sportest Is Born

At the May 2 luncheon, Sportest was announced
as the winning name. The name was derived from
sport contest. This luncheon was attended by two
members of the recreation department, one of
whom gave a dramatic talk on the weakness of
recreation facilities and showed how a program
such as ours could greatly aid the youth of
Columbus.

At the same time, through the courtesy of the
United States Junior Chamber of Commerce a
movie, As the Twig Is Bent, was shown. The film
showed two children, one getting the proper start,
the other a bad start; one following the path the
right way and the other the way to trouble.

NeWSpaper publicity was started early in June.
It had been planned to precede the start of the
project by about two weeks, and a natural build-up
was made to the first entrance of the Junior
Chamber of Commerce on the playground.

A bright, three-colored badge was secured as
emblem of the project. It served as registration
certificate for each child who entered Sportest.

A captain’s notebook .was made for the captain
on each playground. It included a place for regis-
tering each contestant as to age, sex, and accom-
plishment. It also had instructions for administer-
ing the project.

Contestants were registered in the age groups
6 to 15. There were five groups for competition so
that every age had a fair and equal chance. The
plan was to follow six pre-selected A.A.U. events
and run one event each week on Wednesday night
when the Jaycees would be on the playground. ‘

In choosing only six events for participation
the committee in charge departed somewhat from
the A.A.U. physical fitness tests. The A.A.U. plan
calls for the completion of six events, five of which
are required while the sixth may be chosen from
among four alternates. The Sportest program
eliminated the element of choice. The six events
offered in Columbus were the five A.A.U. require-
ments—sprints, walk and run, sit-ups, pull-ups,
standing broad jump—and the baseball throw,
which was one of the four choices allowed in the
physical fitness tests.

Two other programs were set up, one a district
elimination, the other city-wide finals at the Ohio
State University stadium. On June 12, one week
before the start of the program, the Jaycees held
a picnic with the purpose of training workers.

A committee was set up with the purpose of
securing prizes, donations of money and gifts total-
ing over $300 for the city-wide finals.

Evaluation

Sportest was rather slow in catching on as it
was an extremely new and different idea in Co-
lumbus. By the time of the finals, the name had
become known and the finals were very well re-
ceived. Newspaper publicity in the three major
newspapers in the city and neighborhood papers

was very generous. Radio also cooperated to the
fullest.

The National A.A.U. furnished proficiency cer-
tificates to be given to each contestant who proved
his ability in the six events held. The standards
were not so difficult but that the greater part of
the contestants could get a certificate. The num-
ber, however, was held down to 96 by the lack of

continuous weekly participation, since a contest-
ant was required to participate every week for six
weeks. Some of .the supervisors of the playgrounds
or the Jaycee captains on the playgrounds went out
of their way to run events on other nights so that
absentees could qualify.

The finals held at Ohio State University stadium
were very well accepted by the contestants. Con-
testants were chosen from the winners on each
playground and, one week before the finals, a dis-
trict elimination—three playgrounds to a district—
was held. Then the district finalists competed in
the city-wide finals. One especially interesting
event was a relay race combining the five age
groups as a relay team.

Following the Sportest finals, the committee Was -
called together and asked about undertaking the
project in future years. The group was unanimous
in its decision to continue next year, though they
felt there should be some change of procedure.
Plans for 1947 will show changes as follows:

The eight week Sportest program is to be cut
to four weeks by combining two events per eve—
ning. The length,of the program brought about
a dwindling contestant interest and presented a
severe manpower problem due to vacations.

Publicity will be better planned and a means
for wider distribution to neighborhood papers
will be found. '

Next year’s captains’ notebooks will be given
to one person fOr preparation. This year’s note-
books served their purpose, but they were too
short.

A meeting with the recreation department
playground supervisors will be held outlining
the complete program and introducing each
supervisor to the captain assigned to his play-
ground. i

The prize commitee will start work at the
first of the project and secure a suitable trophy
for the finals.

The Ohio State Junior Chamber of Commerce
may adopt a similar project as a state-wide proj-
ect with possibilities of accepting the Columbus
ideas. There would then be local participation, city-
wide finals and a state-wide final for the young—
sters of Ohio wherever there is a Junior Chamber
of Commerce.

 

“The health of a democratic society may best be measured by the quality and quantity of the

volunteer leadership which it produces.”———Work with Y onth, December 1946.

10

RECREATION

 

Paradise

 

ARADISE is a place on a map. It can be located
exactly and given bounds in Meridian, Missis-
sippi. But this physical plot of ground, to-

gether with its buildings—designed for use rather
than proportion -— fulfills all the promise of the
dictionary definition of a less tangible paradise.
Paradise (Mississippi) is “a place of bliss, a region
of delight . . . a state of happiness” for an assorted
collection of children, goats, dogs, kittens and bugs.

Paradise is part of an adventure in mingling
work and play so that nobody knows where one
leaves off and the other begins. The adventure
belongs to “Miss Sadie”—to Miss Sadie and Em-
maline and Leonard and all the children from two
to six years old who have made it and are continu-
ing to make it. It is, in a sense and putting it
pompously, an educational experiment. Miss Sadie
believes that children should do What they like, to
be sure, but that they should also learn to like what
they have to do. She practices her preaching at
Kendallwood of which Paradise is a part.

Paradise got its start four years ago when Miss
Sadie bought—as play space for a group of chil-
dren left in her charge—a piece of land on the out-
skirts of Meridian and adjacent to the city’s High-
land Park. She thought she’d need a shelter for
cold weather and rainy days and there was an
unused building in her backyard. The problem was
how to move it. Miss Sadie was stumped—
stumped, that is, until she found Leonard and his
craftsmanship and his truck and his endless
patience.

Leonard is thick-set and slow and unlettered—a
carpenter, plumber, mover, barber, bricklayer, hog-
killer, cook, gardener. By the time he finished
moving that shelter house, he had used all his
skills (with the possible exception of hog-killing)
and he had become, with Emmaline (Miss Sadie’s
young assistant) a permanent part of the “or-

ganization.” Later Miss Sadie and Leonard made.

a bigger house for Paradise, made it from the dis-
carded doors of ancient box cars and joined it
to the shelter house by a covered passageway.

. Paradise is the place where, within reason, Miss
-Sadie’s children do as they like. A block away
stands a brick building, once a store. This is the

APRIL 1947 '

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Tallahassee, Fla.

“schoolhouse” and here activities are carefully
planned. For at the schoolhouse the youngsters
learn, along with simple skills; to like the things
they have to do.

At Paradise the buildings are heated—for con,—
venience and health insurance— by gas, for fun by
coal and wood burned in a little, pot-bellied-stove
and a wood-burning fireplace. But by far the
greatest charm of the place is its out-of—doors—
the flower beds whose outlining rocks are always
upturned, left that way by Don and Buddy, the
three-year-old bug collectors; the weed and wild-
flower bed; the branch, whose clear waters are a
magnet, come summer, for bare feet tired of the
hot sandpile; the bird’s drinking fountain; the
jungle; the nearby park to tempt young explorers.

Pets

There are a thousand and one exciting adven-
tures waiting at Paradise when the time comes to
leave the'schoolhouse. There are, for instance, the
pets. Some of the animals live in cages. But Miss
Sadie thinks a kitten on the shoulder is worth two
anythings in a cage, so most of the creatures are
free to roam around at will.

Princess, the strong, gentle Shetland pony prob-
ably leads all the rest of the pets in the affections
of the youngsters. A local blacksmith made a
small wagon for Princess and almost any day is
a good time for a ride—with at least two of the
youngest on the pony’s back if the weather is line.

.11

The cart, on rainy days, sprouts an awning and
becomes a covered wagon to take the children from
the schoolhouse to Paradise. And on highdays and
holidays Princess and the wagon are decorated
from fetlock to back gate with crepe paper and
flowers and field grasses.

Of course there’s a dog——Cicer0—-—constant com-
panion to his thirty small human friends. Some-
times there are many puppies. And there are
always kittens of assorted sizes and sexes. The
park provides ducks and geese to be watched, and
the rabbits in the cages may be taken out and
petted, but not too much. One day a mule came
to visit and spent the day to the delight of the
whole community.

Goats, from Miss Sadie’s point of view, are
almost too much trouble, but the children love
them. So, .Miss Sadie has worked out a compro-
mise. In the warm months there are always baby
goats—at least one—on hand. When they grow
to goat’s estate and their buttin’ blood awakes from
the quiet of immaturity, they go. Currently there
are two young goats, Sweet William and Billy
Boy. Each gets a bottle of milk each morning and
no telling how many bottles of water. At noon they
look and feel like balloons. The children take turns
(as they do with all activities) with the feeding
and watering. Even the littlest youngsters can {ill
up the bottle, but they do have trouble with the
nipple and this gives rise to the frequent cry, “But-
ton the nipple on, Miss Sadie.”

On one occasion Sweet William broke a leg.
Miss Sadie and the children set it and put it in a
plaster cast. Said Judy, with a noble unconcern
for adult opinion on goats, “It looks like a birth-
day cake!”

Perhaps Ronnie made the classic remark about
the animals. One day he threw his arms around
Miss Sadie in a huge hug and said, “Miss Sadie,
I loves you because you has ponies!” Then, as an
afterthought, he added, “I loves you because you
has goats, too.”

Inlinite Variety

Although the animals are an endless source of
pleasure, Paradise offers other fascinations. The
youngsters are great gardeners. They have their
own vegetable gardens and their own garden song:

Plant the seeds now just so, now just so, now just so
We’re helping God make flowers grow, flowers grow.

They play endlessly with puppetoys, an inven-
tion 0f Miss Sadie’s. Puppetoys come in families
and double (as the name implies) as puppets to

act out a story or a play in the schoolroom and
as dolls which may be freely used in the sandpile

12

or under the great oaks. Puppetoys have their
clothes painted on (or made of crepe paper and
pasted over the painted ones for variety) and so
can be easily and quickly’restored no matter how
dirty.

And there are picnics. The children help Miss
Sadie and Emmaline get the food ready and choose
the picnic place. Sometimes it’s the barbecue pits.
Sometimes it’s the Cowboy Hideout across the
road in the bushes under the oaks. When the Hide-
out is chosen, the Cowboys decorate it—with cow-
boy hats and perhaps a blue handkerchief and a
red, white and blue sweater borrowed from one of
the girls.

Hallowe’en is a very special occasion. Thirty
youngsters climb into Leonard’s truck (specially
decorated for the day) and go to town in costume
to make a parade. At other times the children take
the bus with Miss Sadie or Emmaline and ride into
the mysterious world beyond Paradise. Miss Sadie
says there’s never any trouble because all the other
passengers and the bus drivers are interested and
anxious to help.

Rules and Regulations

A visitor to Paradise once said, aghast, “All
those children and no fence around them l” There
are no fences because the youngsters don’t need
them. “We have,” says Miss Sadie, “rules and
boundary lines and sense enough to know that the
youngest members can’t be expected to keep them
and must be watched.” All the children, two-year-
olds to six-year—olds, are drilled to the saturation
point in the eight fundamental Outdoor Safety
Rule: which read:

Stay with the crowd unless you get special permis—
sion to go and play somewhere else

Always answer when called

Get in the pony cart from the ‘back or the front,
never over the wheel

Stay away from swings in use

Don’t hold or push on the sliding board

Look over the lbridge only when a grown person is

present
Stay away from the branch except in summer (But

when the branch is swollen with rain, padlocks
rather than honor are relied upon!) I

Don’t PET ANY COWS!

There have been few accidents other than
bumped noses and skinned knees, and none of
them have been serious.

Miss Sadie wonders sometimes about the proper
name for her venture. It is not a kindergarten nor
yet a playground-“nor is it, in the strictest mean-
ing of the word, a playschool. Perhaps the best
thing, Miss Sadie, is to forget the technicalities
and just keep on calling it “Paradise.”

RECREATION

 

Courtesy Plymouth Rene-Mien Department

To Shoot
With Safety, _

By VIRGIL C. KNOWLES
Director of Recreation

Plymouth, Michigan

 

HE SEARCH FOR SOMETHING new and different,

for something which will appeal to the young-

sters of the city and to the adults, is one of the
main jobs of any recreation director. He wants to
find new avenues of expression for those who at-
tend his playgrounds and recreation centers. If it
is possible, he plans to include in the program con—
structive training so that a double purpose of fun
and re-creation may be accomplished.

With such a thought in mind the program herein
discussed was developed. It is not, perhaps, new.
But we believe that the thought behind' it, the
work and preparation that went into it and the
purposes and methods of conducting the event
plus its anticipated use in the future, will make for
something new. It is dehnitely a live activity and
there is a real need for it, not only as a means of
satisfying the participants, but also from the stand-
points of safety and education. Although we did
not use lethal weapons the Recreation Department
of Plymouth, Michigan, presented on the play—
ground, as a playground activity in 1945, regular
range practice and shooting.

In thinking about the 1945 summer playground

, season the director wanted to plan a program to

APRIL 1947

-appeal to participants and spectators alike, a pro-

gram that would give both groups definite satis—
faction. During a meeting of the recreation com-
mission someone suggested an air rifle contest.
(Because Plymouth is the home of the Daisy Air
Rifle there is, perhaps, more consciousness of these
“weapons”—but no more rifles per capita—than
elsewhere.) This suggestion .fell into line with the
director’s thinking on the basic need for recreation
to satisfy a human need, so he gave it more than
passing consideration.

Program Values

From the participant’s standpoint this seemed
a genuine avenue for personal satisfaction. Later
it was also found to be a satisfaction to the parents
because of their children’s achievement. From such
a contest there would come, too, fellowship with
other boys as is the case in any group activity.

Such an activity appealed to the sense of ad—
venture, for in imagination Bill could visualize
himself in the woods after game with a real gun.
While he was actually shooting at a small target
and getting lessons in safety, he would be, in fancy,
out in the open stalking deer.

We knew that all the boys who took part couldn’t
be winners, but each one could have the desire to
win and an equal chance to satisfy that desire. In
such a contest neither size nor age were deciding
factors. Each boy would know that, with practice,
with the use of his eyes for aiming and his mind
for correcting aim he had as much chance as the
other fellow.

The boys would learn about service to their
city, about preservation of property and life. They
would learn what to shoot at. They would elimi-
nate the accident factor from shooting. '

So the project was set up.

A careful check showed that'the usual age of
air rifle purchasers was I I to 16. Therefore it was
decided to divide the shoot into two groups, boys
13 through 16 and those 12 and under. The latter
group caught the youngsters in the “Big Injun”
stage of self—assertion when the child revolts from
make—believe and longs for something real, the age
of investigation, of mischief, of skepticism—and
therefore of learning, of the critical, clear intelli-
gence demanding proofs; the age of “self-measure-
ment against others and against the world.” For
the older group the contest appealed to the spe-
cialization instinct.

Eighty-one boys—~more‘ than 12 percent of all
boys between 7 and 15 enrolled in the schools—-
entered the contest. The two youngest were seven,
the two oldest 15. The average age was 11. Parent

13

interest was high and many dads were present at
shoots.

The police department smiled on the contest for
its members had the same interest as the parents.
The main reason for this interest was safety. We
taught the boys how to shoot, what to shoot at,
and how to handle a gun. Adults knew that one of
the best ways for boys to learn good shooting prac-
tices was by group instruction and competition.
Safety and discipline were necessary for the future
well being of their children.

From some old National Rifle Association fig-
ures it was found that in 1943 2,200 people were
killed with firearms in and around their homes and
places of business. Another 2,300 were killed in
the field that year. The hgure for field accidents
reached such proportions in 1945 that it became
alarming and much emphasis was placed upon
safety by the various states of the nation in which
hunting is a major sport. Another fact from the
1943 National Rifle Association figures which im-
pressed the director was that there were no men,
women or children trained by the National Rifle
Association in the list of 4,500 deaths caused by
carelessness. In some 150,000 cases of people under
18 years of age trained by the association in 1943
there was not an accident of any kind. This em-
phasized the fact that safety is in training ;. ’in
knowledge of how to handle a weapon; in know—
ing how, where and when to shoot. We wanted to
supplement National Rifle Association training,
perhaps to start with younger boys and reach many
who were not so trained because of age or because
of parental objections to lethal weapons.

,4

Mechanics

We chose the air rifle because it has all -the ap-
pearances of a lethal weapon—it shoots hard and
fairly accurately—but is not lethal. The manner of
handling and shooting closely approximate a regu—
lar rifle. There is relatively little cost in running
off a contest with this gun. Ammunition is very
reasonable and hundreds of rounds can be fired
for a small price. Because it is accurate for a
short distance only, the necessity for a large range
area was eliminated. Nor did we need elaborate

equipment or mechanical devices. We got baled

hay*, the targets, some lime for marking—and the
boys were ready to go.

Ordlnarily prizes of any intrinsic value are not

 

'A bale of hay is.the only backstop needed. There is no danger of
gomg through_ It and at 18' a_nyone can hit it so there is no
danger of hitting anything behind it. To hit the small bull’s-eye

is.something else again as the writer knows. He ractised 10
With the boys and didn’t do so well as they! p a Hg

14

 

marily to get our safety message over. The prizes
were not announced until after registration. There-
fore, it was proven to the department’s satisfaction
that the prizes were not the main attraction.

We conducted the tournament in the following
order. Four days were set aside for registration.
Then shoots and lectures were held each morning
from 10 o’clock till noon on seven consecutive
days. On the eighth day elimination shoots were
held and 12 boys—six in class A (13-16), six in
class B (12 and under)——were chosen as finalists.
On the following day these 12 met for the final
shoot-off. They were given an hour’s practice ses-
sion, a break of approximately 15 minutes, and
then shot for first, second and third place awards.

Approximately 50 shooters were present at each
shoot. Distance for the shoot ‘was 18 feet from the
muzzle of the gun to the target. The targets were
4%” x 5” with a 15/16” bull’s-eye. Score count-
ing was five for the bull; next ring, four; next
ring, three; next, two; and the outside, one. There
was a possible perfect score of 25 for‘each target.
Three targets constituted a shoot in the match
with a possible 75. The boys shot standing, sit-
ting and prone with five rounds at each position.

. .
 '7 Jan . ~ 7

Courtesy Plymouth Recreation Department

RECREATION

The highest score made was a 64 in the quali-
fying round by a 13-year-old boy. He slipped on
the day of the finals and shot a 57. The highest
score on the day of the finals was 59 by a 13-
year—old boy. In the class B shoot the highest
score was a 57 by a 12-year-old. Second place was
won by an I 1-year-old with a score of 56. A special
prize for boys nine and under was won by a nine-
year-old with a score of 29, which was good shoot-
ing for a youngster.

The 18-foot distance is not the most accurate
range for the rifle used. The most accurate maxi-
mum distance for this gun is set at 12 feet. \Ve
used the longer range to add interest to the contest
and to allow the boys to learn to correct their
pieces for accurate shooting. .

Regular range rules applied, with firing by
rounds under the oversight of the director who
acted as instructor and range officer. We naturally
chose an area which was more or less clear and
apart. However, there were both a road and a
path behind us. Safe walking was possible on this
path at any time because the boys followed specifi-
cally the instructions of the range officer and halted
instantly at the command “cease fire.” The path,
though little used, was in the background for the
definite purpose of training the boys. We wanted
them to get used to observing in front of them, to
make sure of their target and to take the range
officer’s instructions and follow them. The di-
rector was assisted during the shoots by two play-
ground leaders. In practice the boys shot in groups
of nine on the firing line. In the elimination match
they shot six at a time, and in the finals three at a

time. Judges stood immediately behind the boys to
determine whether or not two shots came from a
gun or whether any gun had misfired.

Values

What did we accomplish? Everything we ex-
pected and more! The boys want to form a club
and keep it going the year round. We have a
group of boys who, young as they are, know how
to handle a gun. They learned not to point a gun
at anyone; never to point without expecting to
shoot; to be sure of their target; not to shoot at
song birds or live trees, bottles, street lights, win-
dows or—above all—people; to treat every gun as
if it were loaded ready to shoot; not to fire on the
line until given the order. There were no accidents.

What do we hope to do next year? Have a bigger
and better contest spread over the whole season

.with ranges on each playground and a bigger city

finals shoot. Bring in the girls. They made many
inquiries and requests this year. Bring in the fathers
to shoot .with and against the boys, though not in
competition or championships. We expect to have
regular rifle range practice in our program with
regular weapons but we are going to continue to
pre-train our youngsters with air rifles so they will
be range and weapon wise when they do start their
rifle shoots.

N 0, we do not necessarily want to raise a bunch
of shooters, but we do believe that youngsters
should be aware of the dangers of a gun and know
how to handle it to eliminate these dangers—not

only at the time of their youth, but throughout
adult life.

 

Kids Form PAC, Score Victory

BUTLER, PA., (UP)——The kids of Butler have their own political action committee, and an effective one,

tOO.

On election day, scrawled signs were found tacked to trees and fences near the polls. They read:

“Us kids can’t vote for the swimming pool. So we ask you to vote for us. (signed) The Kids of Butler.”

Butler citizens answered the plea, passing a bond issue authorizing the building of the swimming

pool—New Orleans, La., Item.

APRIL 1947

15

Day Camps in St. Louis

Diary

ll UNE 18, 1946—First day of

a day camp. Camp was

planned for I 35 campers.
We thought it might possibly grow to 160. We
actually had 201 campers. If we had had tails, we
would have been swinging from the trees. I came
home hot and tired. Was I glad to see the bath
tub! My feet hurt clear up to my hips and I won—
dered how I did ever get mixed up in this any-
way.”

“JUNE 20—Second day. Cloudy day but spirits
were high again. Two more registrations came in.
Where, oh where, should the registration deadline
be? Things seem to be going smoothly however.
If I can only keep my unit leaders happy, I’ll be

okehf’

“JUNE 27—»Fourth day. W wanted head bands
with feathers—"no feathers—so we had to make

10

By LUCILE SMITH FRIEDLI

Director. Girl Scout Day Camps
St. Louis. Missouri

arrowheads (our camp emblem).
I wonder——do all camps have so
many disappointments? Our
bright spot of the day was $8.50
collected for the cow.”

“JULY 2——-Fifth day. beautiful day! First pop
out of the box, a unit leader had an accident in her
family and will be out of camp from now on.
Practically wore a path back and forth to her
group to be sure everything went okeh—which it
did. The day ran so smoothly we just knew some-
thing would happen. It did. I lost the keys to the
supply shed. We hunted high and low and finally
pried the whole lock off the shed. While we were
putting the supplies away the keys were found.
Ten more gray hairs l”

“JULY 9—Seventh d y. C 0k out day. I awoke
at 5 :00 A.M. to hear it raining. I could just see my
staff and me sitting in the park with all those bot-

 

Courtesy St. Louis City and County Girl Scout Council

RECREATION

 

tles of milk and those muffins that had been
ordered for dessert. However, the weather straight-
ened out. Our cook out, through the cooperation
of everyone, turned out grand. We had some visi-
tors—which gave us a chance to show off.”

“JULY I I—Last day. All hustle and bustle, with
costumes and all. A very nice program put on by
the six units and a job well done by unit leaders
and all helpers. I went home happy that every-
thing Went so well and sorry it is all over. If our
day camp was a good one, it was because I had the
cooperation of everyone, including my husband
who was my unseen assistant.”

The Camps

These quotations were gleaned from the diary
of a director in one of the day camps operated in
the summer of 1946 by the Girl Scout Council of
Greater St. Louis. There were 22 other camps with
equally interesting and human stories of day by
day experiences.

There are many ways of setting up a day camp
program. The Girl Scout Day Camp Committee
plans a series of camps on sites scattered through-
out the city and county. The season starts the first
week in June and closes late in August. Most of
the camps operate two days a week for four weeks.
A few offer only six days and a few IO days. It is
possible for a girl to have four days a week of day
camping for eight weeks simply by registering with
four different camps. Last summer we totalled 200
days of camping and gave to 2,700 children a week
of camp program.

The one certain thing about day camping is its
uncertainty. Anyone who has to have things cut
and dried should not attempt this program. The
director of the diary was concerned about the num-
bers registering. Her camp was divided into two
large groups with an assistant director working
with each group. We attempt to limit the camps
to 125 campers, but like the growth of children in
a family, growth in day camping is not consistent.
Each day camp must be in operation for at least
four days to be included as a day camp and it must
include in its registration the same group of camp—
ers and staff.

In addition to registration problems, the director
is concerned with the happiness of her staff, which
is a volunteer group; a budget; community rela-
tions; publicity; records; safety and health of the
camp; and the actual activities of the program as
they relate to campers and staff. We say that pro-
gram is everything that happens to Susie from the

APRIL 1947

 

Courtesy St. Louis City and County Girl Scout Council

time she packs her lunch at home in the morning
until she returns to her doorstep in the evening.
People ask for examples of a day’s program.
How can you plan a set program for 23 different
day camps on different sites and serving different
people? Each day camp is divided into units, vary-
ing in numbers depending upon the registration,
and each unit is different from every other unit.

Last summer I “traveled” all over the world. In
one day camp, I visited Hawaii, Holland, China and
Italy. “China” had an interesting experience. The
girls found a family of flickers living upstairs.
They watched quietly while the parent birds fed
the baby birds. The girls learned games and songs.
They brought eggs to cook at one meeting.

“Holland” became interested in drawing, singing
and playing games. These girls decided to make
their own cooking utensils out of No. 10 tin cans.

Incidentally, the boys’ unit was a very busy
place. These youngsters made themselves a swing-
ing table which they put up each and every camp
day.

Equipment

Skills in campcraft are learned. As one little
girl said, “Today we put up the sink.” It was a
No. 10 tin can. You do not need a lot of equip-
ment at day camp. You do need a heap of imagina-
tion. At no cost, and certainly no effort, a world of

17

 

materials lies at your feet and over your head.
For instance, beautiful tall oak trees where one
could see many different birds, and sink holes
where tadpoles were found were a great delight to
the children.

One group,found and used for modeling a streak
of white clay in the bank of the stream. Even the
Brownies enjoyed digging it and carrying it back
to their unit for working into glorified mud pies.
The oldest girls used it to help build their pioneer-
ing village. The woods provided material for
lashed tables, pioneer cooking equipment, and
primitive looms. The little brook was a source of
material for the freshwater life and searching for
tadpoles, little frogs and anything to be caught in
a homemade net was a good excuse to wade under
tall trees, through splashes of sun, crossing rocky

places, with bird songs, blue skies and a sense of
wild wood all about.

Program

Because our neighbors no longer live just across
the street, because we also have neighbors across

18

. I   _
-I — . '-' 'I'  .n-r‘ “F .  .  - . c . "" . r
e a. ‘_,.,._)“a3,..:,,  \.  gr 7 I  '3',”  '_ - .r-_-:-1  N   - ',~. I a . 9: w... A 3:, . 

Courtesy St. Louis City and County Girl Scout Council

the ocean, we gave the children an opportunity to
get their teeth in an experience of international
friendship. We started out to buy one heifer to be
sent overseas and ended up with money for two.

_ We took the pattern of living of the pioneer ex-
ploring a new land and turned it into program for
day camps, not to explore new lands, although you
may explore the site, but to explore the great area
of human relations. Program is this business of
getting on together, of helping each other, sharing-
responsibilities, making decisions and carrying
them out, giving an opportunity to campers to try
out things, make mistakes and try again. Each
camp has a Junior Camp Council made up of girls
and the director and a staff representative. From
each camp there is a representative to a city-wide.
Junior Camp Council. These girls are an inter-

cultural group of all ages, headed by their chair-
man.

Leadership and Training

All of these fine things are enjoyed by the girls-
of this community—Scouts and non—Scouts—be-

RECREATION ‘.

cause a group of women and Senior Girl Scouts
give their enthusiastic leadership to the Girl Scout
Day Camp program. There were 400 women who
served in this capacity including the directors, the
four specialists and the members of the very active
day camp committee. Last year 22] women at-
tended our spring day camp course. Each director
meets with her staff to learn and plan meetings.
At the camp sites, units for nursery children and
boys are provided so that the mothers can serve as
staff members.

Four thousand, five hundred and forty-seven
hours of training were given in the training course.
The philosophy back of the course is that a leader
cannot have a happy experience with the campers
unless she is familiar with the skill or crafts. The
course offers a combination of theory and practice.
It includes sessions on leadership; organization;
special sessions for directors; sessions for staff

members; workshop on crafts, campcrafts, singing, ‘

dancing, art, storytelling, dramatics; sessions at
day camp sites where actual experience is given in
setting up units, building fires, cooking, nature
trails and nature projects, cleaning up camp and
closing.

The day camp adult leaders all agree that the
training we offer to the Senior Girl Scouts—older
high school girls—--is one of the highlights of the
program. The group, composed of about 150 girls
is inter-cultural. The girls are interested now in
camping, in leadership, in service. They are also
interested in this phase of recreation from the
standpoint of a vocation later on. The year’s train-
ing starts out with a week-end workshop held at
Sherwood Forest Camp, Troy, Mo. Each girl has
64 hours of theory and skill. The girls at this
workshop have an opportunity to set up the work
and carry out the plans. A group of specialists in
leadership and program skills serve as consultants
and leaders of groups. In addition, each month a
“huddle” on some topic pertaining to the day camp
program is scheduled. In this way it is possible to
acquire 20 more hours of training. In May, job

assignments are made in consultation with both
the girls and the directors. During the summer the
girls and the directors are interviewed frequently
and at the end of the season both groups evaluate
their experiences. These are future leaders getting
training and work experience which should prove
valuable to the community. Needless to say, this
program cannot take place without the support of
the Girl Scout organization and the cooperation of
community groups. Our day camp program enjoys
the full c00peration of the Commissioner of Parks
and Recreation of St. Louis and his staff of de-
partment heads, superintendents of the various
parks, and the men who work in the parks. In
training, we have the help of the park and play-
ground association, the people’s art center, the
public library, the faculty members of Washington
University and the St. Louis public schools, and
the naturalists of Rockwoods Reservation, Mis-
souri and Pere Marquette State Park, Illinois.
There are other community groups that lend sup-
port to the Girl Scout Day CMp program.

For 1947, a $2 fee is to be charged for each
camper for an eight day period. The budget we
take in our stride. A small sum of money is allo-
cated for a large venture. As yet society does not
see the value of this type of program in dollars and
cents. The cost to the community last summer was
17 cents per person. The total budget was $5,000
in round figures. For 3,000 persons, campers and
staff, that means an expenditure of about $1.66
per person. Each camper paid $1.50 for eight days.

Publicity—newspaper, neighborhood and city,
radio programs, talks to parents and church groups,
lectures at the universities—is part of the’year-
round program. In every community there is a
gold mine—lay leadership. Each adult has a gift
to give and it’s the job of the leader to help an
adult to develop his gift. Then let the leader find
for him a place in the community where the adult
may have a satisfying experience. And that is
real adventure!

 

Department of Misinformation

PARDON US while we take time out for a spot of plain and fancy blushing. Glad as we (and presum-
ably Providence, Rhode Island) would be to verify passage of the $100,000,000 bond issue for rec-
reation reported in the March issue of RECREATION, we must confess that somebody picked up a couple

of extra zeros somewhere along the line. The issue voted was $1,000,000—and since, as the saying goes,

“that ain’t hay” congratulations to’ Providence are still in order.

APRIL 1947

19

Detroit's Day Camp

ETROIT’S FIRST day camp season, sponsored

by the City of Detroit, Department of Parks

and Recreation drew to a close on August
30, 1946. It was a dream come true for a big—city
child.

The Department wanted to reach those areas
where few, if any, recreation facilities were avail-
able. So a few months before the opening of the
camp season in early July, the director got in
contact with community leaders and school prin-
cipals in the congested areas of Detroit about plans
for a day camp.

Together these leaders worked out a system
whereby the schools in these areas received a quota
of registration forms containing complete informa-
tion regarding the new program. The principal of
each school distributed these forms to teachers
who in turn selected the most financially needy
children to go to camp.

As the completed registration forms were sent
to the department of parks and recreation, a dupli-
cate card was sent to each child concerned. One
section of the card contained complete information
as to time, date and place of meeting for each camp
day. The other section was to be returned to the
department with the notation that the child would
attend camp on the days appointed. Each child
could go to camp one day a week for a period of
eight weeks—eight times in all.

Health Examination

Before the season opened on July 8, all children
were given an opportunity to take a physical ex-
amination free of charge from the city physician
provided for the day camp. In many cases, how-
ever, a family physician gave the examination, and
the report of such an examination was noted on
the registration form given each child.

Size and Age of Group

Because of limited facilities and funds only chil-
dren from 9 through 12 years of age were eligible
the first year. Facilities were available to accom-
modate a maximum of 100 boys and 100 girls for
this first season and, in spite of the polio epidemic
in August, the attendance remained well over 100
daily. If attendance fell, as it did somewhat in
August, the children were permitted to bring a
friend the following week. During the season,

20

By JIM SCHULTHEIS
Day Camp Director

Department of Parks and Recreation

2,100 Detroit children participated in the day
camp.

Transportation

Chartered coaches (50 children to each bus)
picked up the group each day at 9 A.M. from pre-
designated schools in the congested areas. Where
possible, each child brought 20 cents weekly to
help defray the cost of transportation. One day a
week the coaches stopped at one of Detroit’s larg-
est orphanages and took these youngsters to the
campsite. The trip lasted from 30 to 50 minutes,
but the children were happily singing the entire
distance under the leadership of a. department play
leader.

Campsite

The camp is located about 15 miles from the
heart of Detroit. During the war years it had been
used as an Army post. The wooden barracks and
administration buildings made an ideal shelter for
indoor activity during inclement weather. These

 

Courtesy Detroit Parks and Recreation Department

RECREATION

buildings can be utilized, too, on a year-around
project. Only about five of the dozen or so build-
ings were used the first season. One building,
facing a large cleared, grassy field became the
main administration headquarters for the campers
and supervisors. Another of equal size (most of
them are about 20’ x 80’ or 20’ x 100’) made a
splendid arts and crafts building.

Leadership

The camp was carried on by one director, four
playleaders, and ten volunteer, full-time counse-
lors. A period of instruction before the opening of
the camping season was conducted for all coun-
selors by the director, who has only the highest
praise for the men and women volunteers who de-
voted their full time and energies to making the
camp the success it has proved to be.

Program

When they arrived at the park at 9 :30 A.M., all
campers assembled around the flag pole in the
play area for the flag raising ceremony. This was
usually followed by a patriotic song. While still
assembled, the director made such announcements
as were necessary—~coming events, safety rules to
be followed and the day’s program.

After storing excess clothing and lunches, the
group split up into small groups under the leader-

ship of capable counselors and started on a lei- .

surely hike through the woods and trails of the
park. During the hike, the counselors identified
trees, brooks and shrubs for the children, pointing
out harmful poison ivy, pbison oak, berries, and
the like. The destination for the hikers was usually
one of the wading pools located about the park.
Here the children frolicked until a keen appetite
demanded a return to camp. '

Back at camp once more, the youngsters cleaned
up for lunch and each child received a cold bottle
of milk—donated by the Detroit Friendship Club
—and occasionally an ice cream bar. The children
brought their own lunches of sandwiches and
fruit. On several occasions when nature lore was
being taught, a fire was built and roasted marsh-
mallows, hot dogs and similar delicacies were
added to make up the meal for the day. The half
hour lunch period gave the counselors an oppor-
tunity to discuss together the morning’s happen-
ings and the afternoon’s plans.

Storytelling came next on the daily program
and in this activity the children developed a keen
interest. Paul Bunyan tales and folklOrc were well
received. .

The remainder of the afternoon was given over
to the campers’ choice of many activities including

APRIL. 1947

 

-:I: ..... . -

.‘\

Courtesy Detroit Parks and Recreation Department

arts and crafts (clay modeling, woodcraft, leather-
craft and 'papercraft predominating), nature craft,
music appreciation, group singing, fishing parties,
dramatics, outdoor games and sports and safety
movies. Each week the program varied so that
there was little repetition of activities.

During the eight-week period, a week at the zoo,
a week of fishing, talent-“week and a special par-
ents’ week were included.

We had three rainy days. Then the campers
went into the largest recreation room and took
part in indoor games, song'fests, movies and arts
and crafts.

Medical Care

The camp boasted a fine up—to-date hrst aid
room with complete equipment for taking care of
minor injuries by well-trained, first aid counse-
lors. A city doctor and nurse were available at all
times. Only three minor accidents occurred while
camp was held. It is felt that the safety features
inaugurated daily throughout the season were
largely responsible for this splendid record.

From the director’s viewpoint, the camp season
appeared to be tremendously successful in spite of
the small drop in attendance during the last two
weeks of August when Detroit was besieged with
a polio epidemic. The children had the time of
their lives and in many cases it was known that
some children experienced activity in the woods
for the first time.

It was a great pleasure and satisfaction to direct
the functioning of Detroit’s first day camp. In the
years to come this activity will prove itself to be
one of the finest and most popular undertakings
ever devised and carried out by the City of Detroit,
Department of Parks and Recreation.

21.

Rec - Riesta

Summer Wind-up for a Recreation District

LAYGROUND directors and
P office staff of the Hayward

Area Park, Recreation and
Parkway District in California
were determined to have a summer wind-up in the
style of the best established recreation departments.
Nothing that 'was worthwhile for the children in
other communities was going to be denied the chil-
dren in their area. True, this was a recreation
district and not a municipal department. True,
this was the very first summer program attempted.
True, the district was young, lacked experienced
personnel, and covered a widely scattered area of
rural communities, housing projects, unincorpor-
ated towns and an incorporated town. But the
children and the playground directors were deter-
mined to have a summer wind-up for the entire
recreation district — so they planned the Rec-
riesta. -

Early in the summer a committee of playground
directors met to lay the initial plans. The guiding
principles decided upon were: the Rec-riesta pro-
gram should be based on the children’s interests
and on the summer activities and it should be the
climax of the summer program for the entire area.

The final plan evolved from these principles re-
sulted in the following program of events which
was presented on Friday, August 23, 1946 at Me-
morial Park in Hayward.

10 :00 A.M.—Playground orchestra selections

10:15 A.M.—Play-—The Maid Was in the Garden
" San Lorenzo Village Playground

10:30 A.M.—Play and pageant—The Prince Who Could

N at Dance

Ashland Playground

Bunbank Playground

Markham Playground

Tennyson Playground

Castro Valley Playground

John Muir Playground

Russell City Playground

Sunset Playground

12 :00'n00N—Picnic lunch
12 :30—2 :00 aim—Concessions, exhibits, and amateur hour
(Each playground planned and ran a concession and

contributed to the arts and crafts exhibit. The day

“ camp and the. teen-age centers also contributed to
the exhibit.) .

By CAROL PULCIFER’

Supervisor. Hayward Area
Park. Recreation and Parkway District

‘2:00-3:00 Pam—Games and sports

Watermelon eating contest—100
participants

Boys peanut scramble
Girls :peanut scramble
Greased pig contest
Push ball contest

Girls shoe kicking contest
3 :00 - 4 :30 P.M.—-—Cha-mpionship softball game —— Ashland
vs. Sunset

The final result was a huge success with hun-
dreds of children participating and over 1,000
spectators.

The program is not in itself remarkable. 'It is
similar to other summer wind-ups and presents
nothing particularly original as to program. The
interesting and unusual part of the Rec-riesta was
the overcoming of the problems and obstacles
peculiar to the district situation.

From the supervisor’s point of view, the first
problem was stimulating the enthusiasm of the
leaders. Before the first meeting of directors was
called, a great many casual conferences were held
with all the playground directors. Summer wind-
ups were explained. Experienced personnel re-
sponded with understanding and enthusiasm, but
the less experienced directors—-—some of them
housewives, some of them high school seniors—
didn’t quite grasp the total picture. The super-
visor need not have worried—when the whole
event was made the responsibility of the central
committee, enthusiasm reached a high point and
original ideas were plentiful. The name, Rec-
riesta, was coined and the supervisor’s problems
became those of guidance rather than stimulation
and promotion. The directors carried these ideas
and the enthusiasm back to their own grounds and,
in turn, received a double dose of ideas and en-
thusiasm from the children—-—-but not without a
great deal of promotion and leadership.

Telling the People

Promotion and publicity were particularly dif-
ficult because of the heterogeneous nature of the
communities being served, the size of 'the district
(154 square miles), and the lack of any commu-
nity feeling for the “area.” Local events were easy

RECREATION

to promote, but area-wide events did not call forth
the same personal interest and pride.

Working on the basis that the final attendance
at the Rec-riesta would probably be proportional
to the number of actual participants in the pro-
gram, the playground directors made every effort
to enlist the children’s interest in being on the con-
cession committee, helping with plans, and being
in the pageant. The latter event was probably the
biggest single factor in making the children and
the local communities aware that they were part
of a larger area and a bigger program. One of the
directors talented in teaching folk dancing was
scheduled to visit eight playgrounds to deve10p
folk dance groups to be used in the pageant. In-
asmuch-as the director had no car, the final work-
ing out of the schedule was a masterpiece of co-
ordination in which all the cars in the department
were probably used at some place along the way.
Many playgrounds had no indoor facilities and the
folk dances were taught to the music of a portable
phonograph on a shadeless gravel play area. Cos-
tumes for the pageant were provided by the dis-

 

trict costume room, which also had its difficulties
because of the scarcity of materials.

The usual methods of publicity were used-—
posters, pictures, newspaper articles, public address
system, speeches to local groups, special invita—
tions——-but the participation and efforts of the chil-
dren themselves, in the final analysis, was the real
selling-point for the Rec-riesta.

The choice of a place to have the Rec-riesta was
fortunate. The only municipal park in the whole
area, which happened to be also the location of the
only swimming pool in the whole area, was chosen.
Unlike the average playground, this location of-
fered a fine picnic area with an ideal setting for an
outdoor theater, a playfield for the concessions and
sports events, a Boy' Scout cabin for a pageant
dressing room, and a parking area.

Organization

The organization presented no great problems
except that of the bigness of the districts. Frequent
meetings were not feasible, but a clear delineation
of responsibilities through office bulletins made

Courtesy Hayward Area Park District

'23

complete decentralization of most major opera-
tions possible and every director came through. A
final rehearsal preceded by a final meeting of the
whole department cleared up most of the problems
for both directors and children.

Transportation, we thought, presented a real
problem because some of the communities were so
isolated that some children would have to walk
two or three miles to the nearest public convey-
ance. (This situation exists because the rapid
growth of the entire area has left housing, trans-
portation, and nearly all public utilities with their
slower rate of development far behind.) An elabor-
ate scheme was worked out whereby school buses
were used to serve all areas not served by public
transportation. Although many children took ad-
vantage of this, the surprising fact was that so

many found their own means of getting to the Rec-
riesta. This gave the office staff to wonder if isola-
tion, after all, wasn’t more of a mental than a
physical problem since means of getting in to town
seemed to .be quite available when sufficient reason
for coming was stimulated in the individual.

Expense for the first Rec-riesta was not a pri-
mary concern. As an initial summer wind-up of
the district, it was not supposed to be self-support-
ing. Tickets were used, but they were free and
served as a means of publicity and control rather
than a means of financing. The only charge was
for transportation.

The Rec-riesta was proof positive that a success-
ful summer wind-up is possible for a recreation
district.

 

 

Corinne Fonde

By MARGUERITE TURNER
Houston. Texas

ORINNE FONDE, modern crusader for recrea-
C tion for all the people, resigned her post as
Assistant Director of the Parks and Recre-
ation Department of the City of Houston on July
I, 1946, after 27 years of uphill pioneering in mu-
nicipal recreation.

“A task well done,” said the voice of a grateful
people, and the pe0ple were right for Miss Fonde’s
story is the story of community recreation in
Houston. But to Corinne Fonde the task will never
be complete until every child has an opportunity
for wholesome recreation—until every adult may
re-create himself by a full expression of his leisure
time interests.

Through 24 years as superintendent, Miss
Fonde guided the growth of the Houston Recrea-
tion Department. She improvised equipment, she
drafted volunteers and she juggled a scrawny bud-
get to keep the enterprise afloat. There never was
enough of anything to meet the ever louder de-
mands from a city that doubled its population in
every decade.

24

 

Corinne Fonde

Miss Fonde came to Houston in June 1916 to
sUpervise the work of the Houston Settlement
Association of the Houston Social Service Bureau.
Her headquarters were at Rusk Settlement in a
squalid neighborhood of 23 nationalities.

RECREATION

Her early training and experience served her
well in the multiple duties she found there. She
began her career as a kindergarten teacher, first in
the public schools of her home city, Mobile, Ala-
bama, and later as an instructor in the Sophie
Newcomb College kindergarten training school in

New Orleans.

She was a disciple of Eleanor McMain of Kings-
ley House Social Settlement, New Orleans, where
she was a resident and volunteer worker for eight
years. She supplemented her work with studies
related to play in education at the Universities of
Chicago and Tennessee, and for four summer ses-
sions taught kindergarten methods and play in edu-
cation at Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge.
For one year she was assistant director of Kingsley
House summer camp on the Gulf coast. She spent
one year at Lane Cotton Mills and one at Mac-
Ginnis Cotton Mills, New Orleans, as director of
employee .welfare and recreation.

Beginnings

The activities which were carried on at the set-
tlement house under Miss F onde’s leadership
paved the way for the formation in 19I9 of the
Recreation Bureau of the Houston Foundation. In
February of that year, Miss Fonde was given sole
charge of the bureau office. The equipment was
scant. Money for operating was limited—the first
year’s budget amounting to less than $2,500. Funds
were raised through personal gifts, tag days, bene-
fit ball games and numerous such activities.

But the need for a public recreation department
was city-wide. People were eager for the many
things that could be done through recreation work,
they had confidence in Miss Fonde’s ability and
vision, and they threw their support behind the
movement wholeheartedly. Civic groups, and Par-
ent-Teacher Associations lent their help. Teachers
in the public schools gave their cooperation.

Play days and play weeks were organized by
Miss F onde, who had the ability to get other peo-
ple interested in doing things and the driving force
needed to coordinate their efforts into successful
undertakings. a

Five summer playgrounds were operated by the
infant department. One of the first projects of the
new department was to conduct an investigation of
the local dance hall situation. A report was sub-
mitted to the City Council which soon thereafter
amended its dance hall ordinance to require that
minors at public dances be accompanied by parent
or guardian.

SomehOw Miss Fonde retained her high ideal-

APRIL 1947

ism and with remarkable resiliency was able to
turn temporary defeat into successful progress.
She fought always for the principle that municipal
recreation should not be limited by age, sex, race,
creed, locality or condition, or special interest. She
believed that the entire community of people, the
free hours of all the people, and all the interests of)
the people that may be expressed during leisure is
the legitimate field of the recreation department.
Her program was always based on- the premise
that the recreation department is an integral part
of the municipal government, it belongs to all the
people and is designed for their service.

Miss F onde was director for many years of the
annual school conducted under the auspices of the
Houston Recreation Institute Associatioann 1927
she was appointed one of seven recreation super—
intendents in the nation who constituted an ad-
visory committee to study health and juvenile de-

l ‘ linquency.

She is a member of the National Recreation As—
sociation, the Society of Recreation Workers of
America, and a member and past president of the
Texas Recreation Association. She served for many
years as a member of the executive committee of
the group work section of the Houston Council of
Social Agencies.

“Recreation, properly supervised, is the natural
preventive of crime,” Miss F onde said in an early
interview. “Health, moral and physical, cannot fail
to result from the wholesome activity of a creative
recreational program.”

\

Setbacks and Progress

In 192I the Recreation Bureau was merged with
Houston’s Community Service, and the City Coun-
cil passed an ordinance creating it a full depart-
ment of the city government. Two years later the
department was made a Community Chest agency
as well. It was not until I937 that the department
relinquished Chest support and assumed its place
as a department of the city government, fully
though not adequately supported by tax funds.

Depression days brought a setback to the then
flourishing department. In 1930, it had attained its
peak financially with a budget of $42,32I.15 aug—
mented by $12,966.68 from the Community Chest.
Two years later, the depression having made itself
felt in Houston, the budget was cut to $16,000—
$10,000 from the city and $6,000 from the Chest.

Miss Fonde’s heart shed tears as she necessarily
cut the program to fit the budget. Many of her
loyal staff members, either without pay or much
reduced salaries, manned the centers and play-

25

grounds to salvage the program until the budget

could be restored.
In reviewing the work of the department on ItS

twentieth anniversary, Miss Fonde generously at-
tributed the things that had been accomplished to
the loyalty of friends. “There have been times when
the department was like a very sick child,” she
said. “There have been days when we thought all
our work was going for naught. But our friends
stood by us. They are our greatest asset. Now the
cause of public recreation in Houston is safe.”

The 27 year old traditional Tree of Light cere-
mony was given to Houstonians by Corinne Fonde,
who first introduced the idea in Rusk Settlement
and later made it an annual city-wide event. There
have been annual kite tournaments in Houston
since 1919—each one attended by this energetic
department head. Her department directed the or-
ganization of the local Central Girl Scout Council
of which a member of the Recreation Board be-
came the first Commissioner. There have been
playground tours conducted to better acquaint in-
terested citizens with the activities, and countless
numbers of visitors and department friends have
enjoyed playground tours and Special events as the
personal guests of Miss Fonde. She never spared
herself at the expense of public recreation, even
though it meant that grinding, busy days in the
ofiice were followed by equally busy evenings, and
often week—ends, on the playgrounds. Just seeing
the joyful happiness her program was giving to
others seemed to renew and strengthen Miss
Fonde’s unselfish desire to provide the highest
possible type of recreation program.

In 1943 the City of Houston adopted a new
charter which called for the consolidation of the
Park and Recreation departments. Miss F onde was
named assistant director of the enlarged depart-
ment. ,

At the time of her resignation in 1946, the recre—
ation division was operating 21 year-round white
playgrounds and centers, and six Negr‘o centers, in
addition to 12 championship tennis courts, three
swimming pools, three golf courses and four lighted
softball fields. City-wide activities of the depart-
ment in 1946 also included junior and senior com-
munity chorus groups, junior and senior civic
theater groups, and a centrally located teen-age
canteen. '

This report speaks for the progress made since
1927 when Miss Fonde and her staff launched a
campaign for the following equipment: lights for
courts in all the playgrounds in order that they may
be used at night; a civic theater and workship;
a centrally located athletic field; at least three mu-

26

nicipal swimming pools, and buildings for the year—
round operation of a number of the playgrounds.
For the most part, these objectives have been ac-
complished, the land having been acquired only
last year for the athletic field. Renovation of an
abandoned incinerator provided an attractive civic
theater on the banks of Buffalo Bayou.

Toward the Future

The loyal friends who have supported Miss
Fonde in her activities through the years are mem-
bers of the Houston Parks and Recreation Asso-
ciation, Incorporated, an organization which has
at times supplied personnel and funds to- demon-
strate recreation activities, which, when proven,
were transferred to the department budget as
rapidly as it permitted. Two years ago these
friends endorsed and pledged themselves to secure
a $25,000,000 improvement program for the Parks
and Recreation Department for the next 10-year
period. '

And the citizens of Houston in.]u1y voted a
major bond issue with $4,000,000 earmarked for
parks and recreation use. This was the second
time in three years that the people voiced their
approval at the polls of the parks and recreation
program, the first bond issue having set aside
$1,800,000 for the department’s post-war improve-
ment program.

Upon her resignation the City Parks and Rec—
reation Board adopted the following resolution:

“Inasmuch as Miss Corinne Fonde, after 27
years of devoted service as head of the Recreation
Department of the City of Houston, has felt it
necessary on account of ill health to resign :

“Now, therefore, be it resolved that it is the
sense of the Parks and Recreation Board that the
department has suffered a great and serious loss by
reason of her resignation. The members of this
board hereby wish to express not only for them-
selves but for the entire City of Houston their ap-
preciation of Miss Fonde’s untiring efforts and
inspiration and planning through many difficult
years when we needed her vision and courage.

“We hereby tender our undying gratitude to-
her for her labors and loyalty to our cause during
her long tenure and trust that the leisure she has-
at last gained will bring her the joy and happiness

which she so richly deserves because of a task well
donef’

Younger hands will carry on where she left off,
but no one will guide the destiny of public recrea-
tion in Houston with more self—less love than the '
courageous little brown—eyed “mother” of it all.

RECREATION

Fly-Tying for Recreation

COUPLE THOUSAND years ago, some fellow
fishing in the Nile River discovered that he

had better success with his crude bone fish-
hooks if he colored them red, yellow, blue, green,
with dyes, yarn, silk, or bright colored feathers.
After making this important discovery, he proba-
bly scampered home and raided his wife’s sewing
basket for bits of silk, yarn, thread, or whatnot;
pilfered the feathers off her current hat; and swiped
her manicure scissors when she wasn’t looking.
From that day to this fishermen have been doing
the same thing, and have been putting together
odd assortments of colored yarns, silks, feathers
and hooks in various shapes and designs for the
purpose of luring the wily trout, or the lowly pan
fish into the old fish—basket. As a matter of fact, a
veritable craft has sprung up, with standard pat-
terns, and standard procedures, until now there is
hardly any community, large or small, in the length
and breadth of our land which doesn’t boast of its
champion fly-tier—or organized group of fly-tiers,
for they are inordinately gregarious.

A definite vocabulary has developed with the
craft, and the uninitiated may have some little
trouble at first with the proper terminology, until
he discovers at long last that most fly—tiers are a
little “tetched” and that when speaking of colors
the fly-tier’s “red” is really a delightful dark
brown, that “dun” is a -cross between green and

gray and blue, and that “furnace” is not something '

down in the basement to keep one warm, but really
a hackle of brownish tint. Likewise, a real fiy-tier
never speaks of the feathers of a bird, but usually
confuses the amateur with such terms as hackles,
capes, skins, quills, primaries, and the like.

Forewarned !

To enter the sacrosanct fraternity of fiy-tiers one
needs but a little instruction and an inexpensive
kit of materials. It is only fair, however, to warn
the reader right now that the author assumes no
responsibility from here on in for what might hap-
pen to those taking up the craft as a hobby or for
light recreation, especially to those who actually
use the results of their labors on stream or pond or
lake! Wives have been known to up and leave
well-meaning husbands for littering up the kitchen
floor and table with bits of hair and feathers. Chil-
dren slyly tell the neighbors that Daddy has been

APRIL 1947 .

By WALTER S. NICHOLS

Direc’rorI Wisconsin Avenue Social Center
Milwaukee. Wisconsin

looking at the chickens with a speculative eye
turned to the value of the shoulder hackles there-
on. Friends do not call at our house anymore for
fear of a diatribe on the relative merits of the
Royal Coachman as against the Grizzly King fished
wet on a dark day.

Compared to other types of recreation, golf for
example, fly—tying has its merits. First, it is usually
done at home and doesn’t require the upkeep on
40 to 60 acres of land. Second, it can usually be
indulged in at a moment’s notice, down in the
basement where one can litter up the floor -to his
heart’s content. Third, it is relatively inexpensive,
with no lavish outlay of cash for tools, or other
materials. Fourth, it is an acquisitive hobby pro-
viding the rider with tangible finished products
which he can put to use himself or give away to
unsuspecting fishermen friends. Fifth, it offers an
inexhaustible field for experimentation and re-
search. And, finally, it’s like the opium habit in
that the enthusiast seeks every opportunity to pass
“the curse” on to others.

Age seems to make little difference in enthusi-
asm. The youngster of IO or 12 seems to get just
as much kick out of tying his own flies as does the
grizzled fly-fisherman. During the past summer
fly-tying classes were offered to children on 10
selected playgrounds in Milwaukee under the spon-
sorship of the Department of Recreation of the
Milwaukee Public Schools. Many of these play-
grounds were located in slum areas, where chil-
dren seldom had an opportunity to fish. Each
playground had a group of from 25 to 100 chil—
dren enrolled for a series of six lessons, one each
week, of two hours in length. Each lesson started
with a demonstration of a basic skill, and the tying
of a complete fly. At the conclusion of the series,
hundreds of youngsters had received enough train—
ing in fundamentals to enable them to tie any fly
desired. The culmination of the course was a series
of lessons on how to use the fly under actual fish—
ing conditions. .

As a winter and spring activity for the commu-
nity center it is without equal. It is a recreation

27

activity in which young and old mix on an equal
basis. Very little in the way of furniture is neces-
sary, usually just any kind of a table on which a
vise can be clamped. Class members provide all
their own tools and materials. A good light is
necessary—and if possible, droplights or desk
lamps which can be adjusted to within a foot or
two of the vise.

Fly-tying appeals to boys and girls, and to men
and women. The girls are interested from the
standpoint of the use of the finished fly for orna-
mental purposes on hat or coat lapel. Many ex-
servicemen learned to tie flies while in service,
and every life-raft was equipped with a fly-tying
kit and directions for its use. Fly-tying soon be-
came the number one recreation activity in occu-
pational therapy’programs in veterans’ hospitals,
and in keeping with the traditions of the craft, fly-
tiers throughout the country are voluntarily giving
of their time in teaching the skill to bed-ridden
veterans, particularly to the victims of tubercu-

losis.

Procedure

To recreation directors planning to inaugurate a
program of fly-tying, a word as to procedures. The
first requirement is a teacher, and usually a little
inquiry in any community will turn up a good one.
In organizing classes, it is well to begin by a dem-
onstration of fiy-tying to a group organized for
the purpose, or to any group organized for any
purpose. This approach usually is more successful
than to announce the organization of a fly-tying
class or a fly-tying club, as it gives the prospective
enrollee an idea of what it’s all about before he is
asked to commit himself to registration for a class
or club the purpose of which might be somewhat
vague to him at the moment. At the initial demon-
stration, a movie film on fly-fishing for trout usu-
ally provides the clincher. These films may be
obtained from various sources throughout the
country, some of the best coming from Field and
Stream magazine. Sometimes two or three demon-
strations are necessary in order to show a variety
of fiy patterns for trout, bass,‘or pan fish.

There is an erroneous idea prevalent that fly-
fishing is both difficult and eXpensive. Neither is
correct. The beginner can learn to fly—fish with
greater ease and with less practice than it takes to
learn bait-casting. Fly-fishing can be done with
inexpensive equipment: a cane pole, a heavy chalk
line, and some sort of winch or contraption to hold
excess line while not in use. On our playgrounds
in Milwaukee, children are taught to make com-

plete and workable fiy—fishing equipment for a

28

total outlay of 50 cents. As a matter of fact, one
can fiy-fish with good results by using a cork or
hair bodied bass bug on the end of an ordinary
light fish line attached to an ordinary cane pole.

To stimulate community-wide interest in the
sport of fly-fishing, and fly-tying, a tie-up in Mil-
waukee with a local newspaper proved exception—
ally helpful. An American Legion post sponsored
instruction in fly-tying and fly-fishing at two near—
by veterans’ hOSpitals. This Sponsorship consisted
of providing transportation to and from the veter-
ans’ hOSpitals for the instructors, purchase of nec-
essary tools and materials to put the program into
effect quickly, and a general endorsement of the
program for the' veterans. To assist in the fly-
fishing lessons, the Milwaukee Casting Club pro-
vided top-notch talent, some with national cham-
pionship ratings, to work with beginners’ classes
in the social center and on the playgrounds, and
also to instruct ambulatory patients in the veter-
ans’ hospitals. This angle of the prOgram culmi-
nated in tournaments during the summer months at
which the winners were awarded prizes donated
by the American Legion. ‘

During the winter months, fly-tying classes run
from about October I 5 to about May 15 indoors.
After May 15 all lessons, either fly-tying or fly-
casting, are outdoors. Classes are divided into
beginners and advanced groups. Every enrollee
spends six weeks in the beginners’ class before he
is admitted to the advanced group. Basic skills are
taught in the beginners’ classes, and a new class
is formed each six weeks.

As in every craft, there are certain fundamental
skills which must be mastered by the beginner
before he can become an expert. It is‘ surprising
how quickly these skills can be mastered by patient
practice. In our social center classes during the
winter months, and on our playgrounds during the
summer months, the same procedure is used in the
teaching process, which, for the benefit of the un-
initiated is outlined below:

Is’r Session: Nomenclature of fiy-tying with diSplay
of materials and tools used in the craft. Differ-
ence between a wet fly (one fished below the
surface) and a dry fly (one fished on the sur-
face) in basic construction; Hook sizes and
thread sizes. How to start a fly.

2nd Session: Demonstration tying of a common
wet fly. How and where to obtain materials and
tools.

3rd Session: Tying the streamer flies, bucktail and
feather types.

RECREATION

. .  - - ; v . Y—  . > J]. :I\ .l  f I h ‘ l 
"-?‘. i“ ..‘ ‘ '..)-I ‘ . 'I ..'h‘ Vi‘" ‘ \ r.
w . . f . v . w. . «- e .  '   *¢.-Wr .aszr..xm/nmm14%?

MEMBER

       - J. van RUBBER CORP.

msn'u" I; : .r ' F I 1600 E. 25th Street. los Angeles ll 0 180 No. Worker Drive, Chicago 6

APRIL 1947

 

4th Session: How to tie cork bodied and hair
bodied bass bugs.

5th Session: The dry fly.
6th Session: How to tie nymphs.

Materials and Tools

In gathering together a kit of materials, the fly-
tier has unlimited opportunity to exercise his in-
genuity. Much of the material used need not be
purchased but can be constructed at home from
odds and ends found around the house. Corks of
various sizes, bits of yarn, silk, floss, chenille,
thread, wax, and razor blades can be found in most

30

 

households. An awl can be made with a darning
needle stuck into a cork.

Materials and tools fall into two classifications:
those which are absolutely necessary, and those
which are nice to have but not absolutely neces-
sary. The list below is divided on this basis:

Absolutely Necessary:

Vises: Thesecan be obtained from sporting goods
dealers in prices from 50 cents to $6. The cheap
ones work just as well as the expensive ones.
The only purpose of the vise is to hold the hook
{irme while making the fly. Small bench vises
on wood-working tables are very usable.

O

RECREATION

 

    

     

      
   

.- ‘2‘-
.‘si‘l‘ H: >
 > f‘
,n
.r
f r ’ .r
v “3. int”
x -. --.
rat"
-.

,i
ran

3 *4 3

«c r 3‘

~>
i
« M’K 2:.

~. Iii-ft“ 1"! :- ‘ \Q ’
f an 9*, xi.
" H;- ‘4”,
. ,

   

' I
' ‘ xt" ,
4‘. a
1., I‘ ' -\. '
we ‘ t
-. ‘ w ‘3. ‘ ‘
.V‘ .
a~§:}g_ ~ :. H ~ 3“ t
kt§: 1. 1. I ‘1.
a» W. o ’3 ~ ~

;
:1
I“ .
-. a
f 1.
a. . __
». ~ ».
n .‘h/; '
r a.
, a. __=-.
z " ‘i‘r . .-,.__-.6, I
~_‘.- ( I: ,/~ f a? r. ‘ a.
- -. ..-t r
-..-.-. u ,4 i 'w
-. .r x - *3
:1 W 1:4- ~.<‘- -. c r?» a ‘ ' i“ -. in. -
x A ‘ x3 ‘5“? ‘ u f a
‘ ‘ ‘3- " -. ~ 4:, if
‘ win-e; ~— ‘ ,2 -.
r“ 7-:- ‘__ :. 6::
'rl .-
-. 9 -
-. +.-__ e
-.- - ._ ‘:-
-. :- h.._ , _‘ ~ ~
-.-‘ ._ ._ «.
~ .. K . f __
a." -: -:

  

,1; a.

,vur

WINTARK process of construction assures
absolute uniformity in size, shape and
weight—greater accuracy in passing,

catching, dribbling and shooting.

WINTARK finer quality guarantees longer

life and greater economy under any court
or weather condition. Demand the Ball
of the Hour—look for the “RV stamped
on every WINTARK Ball.

WINTARK POLICY WINS FOR DEALERS—Write for Catalog

WEAVER WINTARK SALES CO.

Original Pioneers of America's Foremost Athletic Equipment

BOX 71 SHAMOKIN, PA.

Hooks: A supply of hooks of various sizes rang-
ing from size 2/0 to size 20. The beginner should
obtain about a dozen each of size 2/0, 1/0, 2,
4, 6, 8 and IO. Also needed are a few long shank
hooks (about 2 x0) in each of the above sizes.
For general fly-tying purposes, the Turned
Down Eye (TDE) hooks are the best. Do not
invest over $1 in hooks to begin with. Hooks
vary in prices, but good imported or domestic
hooks can be bought for about 20 cents per dozen.

Thread: A spool or two of ordinary sewing silk,
any color, size A, or' size 00 will do to start.

l/Vax: A small piece of wax to waterproof and
preserve the silk thread.

Body Materials: Bodies of flies are usually made
of colored yarn, silk floss, chenille. Bits of these
materials can be “borrowed” from mother’s sew-
ing basket; or purchased on cards for a nickel
or so per color. The important colors are red,
yellow, green, black, white and brown.

Tinsel : A small card of plain silver tinsel and one
of gold tinsel, for body ribbing. Cost about a
nickel or dime each.

Feathers: A small quantity of hackles (small neck
and shoulder feathers) in various colors. Plym-
outh Rock hackles, sometimes called Gray, Bar—
red Rock, or Grizzly, come first. Then a small
quantity of black, one of brown, and one of red
will do for a starter.

Primary Feathers: One package of dyed (various
colors) goose quills, red, green, yellow, orange.

Paired Duck Feathers: A package of paired duck
feathers for making wings on dry flies. Natural
colors are best. If possible get both left and
right wings of mallard drake and pull feathers
as needed.

Deer Tail: Small pieces of dyed deer tails in red,
yellow, and natural brown and white. Also a
piece of gray squirrel tail and a red squirrel tail.

Scissors: Small sharp-pointed manicure scissors
are best. Round-pointed scissors will not do.
Scissors with curved blades are useful in many
Operations.

(NOTE: Some sporting goods dealers have fly-tying
kits all made up with most of the above items included
in the amounts needed. These kits sell for various prices

ranging from $2 to $5. There is enough material in each
kit to make hundreds of flies.)

Nice to Have But Not Absolutely Necessary:

Hooks: A supply of all sizes of hooks ranging
from size 2/0 (the largest) down to size 20 (the
smallest). Hump hooks in sizes 2/0, 1/0, I, 2, 3,
and 4 are also useful in making cork bodied bass
bugs.

32

H ackles: The best hackles are obtained from neck
capes from various birds, such as the game cock,
Rhode Island Red roosters, Plymouth Rock
roosters, and the like. Hundreds of flies can be
tied with the hackles in each such cape. The ad—
vantage in buying hackles in this way is that
each one obtains all sizes needed, and they keep
better. Capes sell for about $1 and up depending
on the size and quality.

Kit Box: Keep your materials orderly. Make your-
self a little box into which you can put every-
thing you need. Such boxes can  made of
scrap lumber, and need be only large enough to
hold four average size cigar boxes.

A Place to W ork: Find a spot at home, prefer-
ably down in the basement, where you can work
without getting your materials all over the house,
and where you can leave your materials so that
they will be undisturbed if you are called away.
It’s good to have a light close to your work. An
extension cord with a droplight can usually be
rigged from some nearby outlet.

Other Materials: Lacquer in various colors for
cork bodies on bass bugs. Red, yellow, and black
are enough to start. Glue for cork bodied bugs.
Peacock herl, Golden Pheasant tippets, Amherst
Pheasant tippets are useful for bodies, Spikes,
and tails. Deer body hair (quite different in
texture from deer tail hair) for hair bodied bass
bugs in natural color, and also in dyed red and
yellow. Calf tails in natural color (called impali),
and also a few pieces of dyed red, black, and
yellow. I

Pieces of body hair, and pieces of tail hair from
such animals as the badger, polar bear, skunk,
and woodchuck.

Books
All libraries have books on fly-tying and on fly-
iishing. Some of the better libraries have complete
shelves of all books published on the subject. For
the benefit of those living in small communities
where library facilities are unavailable, the fol—
lowing may be of assistance:

Modern Fly Craft . . . James Hyndman. Published by
Binforts & Mort Co., Portland, Oregon. C0pyright
1938.

How to Tie Flies . . . E. C. Gregg. Published 'by‘A. S.
Barnes Co., New York, N. Y. Copyright 1940.

Fly Patterns and Their Origins . . . Harold Smedley.
Published by the Westshore Press, Muskegon, Michi-

gan. Copyright 1944.

New Lines for Flyfishers . . . Wm. B. Sturgis. Published
!by Derrydale Press, New York, N. Y. Copyright 1936.

Far, Feathers, and Steel . . . Reuben R. Cross. Published
by Dodd, Mead & Co., New York, N. Y. Copyright
1940.

RECREATION

  

 

APRIL 1947

 

 

What sports or recreations will be
most popular five, ten years from
now? We don’t know, but we can
hazard some guesses based on what
existing sports offer the participants.
Aside from large-scale promotion, we
think probably the perfect sport
would rate high on all these features:

I. UNIVERSAL APPEAL We
acknowledge now that playing,
or engaging in any sport, is
really play-fighting. Therefore
the perfeCt sport must be deeply
rooted in fight-instinct or sur-
vival-instinct.

2. BROAD PARTICIPATION BASE
That is, not only should the
sport appeal to all people, but
all not specifically handicapped
should be able to play.

3. FAIRLY EASY TO LEARN The
.Spanish game of Jai-Alai
requires ten years' apprentice-
ship. It's a great game, but we
question its future as a popular
participation.

4. our-or-ooons Indoor sport
is all right as a substitute, but
in the last analysis an important
ingredient of any wholesome
recreation is fresh air.

5. ONE PART LUCK,r THREE PARTS
SKILL Sports are games, and we
agree that the elements of
chance and uncertainty are im-
portant. But we hold out for a
valid premium on skill in the
perfeCt sport.

Now, let's check archery againSt
that list. Archery has many excellent
features which have brought it into
the very forefront of participation
sports in recent years. But let us now
consider only those features which
refer to the five cardinal points for
the theoretically perfect sport:

“Universal appeal" is the first con-
sideration in evaluating archery.
Archery is the civilized sublimation
of the hunter instinct—strong in you,
strong in us. Once our survival
depended upon it. Today, on the
archery range, it’s just fun.

“Broad participation base” is the

largest single faCtor in the tremendous

’ WHAT IS THE PERFECT SPORT ?

increase in archery participation.
Archery is for all ages, both sexes,
athletes and invalids, "'ioiners” and
hermits. Anyone with two arms
and one eye can become a quite
respectable archer. '

"Easy—to-Ieclrn” might count against
archery if you compare it with
Chinese checkers, but compared with
other sports in which proficiency is
developed through thoughtful prac-
tice, archery ranks right at the top.
Archery will repay the serious Student,
but anyone can have fun with a bow
after twenty minutes on the range.

“Out-of-doors" is the province of
archery, espeCJally if you do nOt hap-
pen to own an auditorium.

“One part luck, three parts skill” is a
fairly accurate description of archery.
That is, if you count under "luck" all
the non-talent circumstances that will
keep a champion from shOOting his
best, or cause a neophyte to whang
two bulleyes in a row.

15 archery the perfect sport—des-
tined to be the first participation sport
of the American people in, say, the
1950’s? We don't know. But we do
know two things:

1. Archery has grown steadily.

2. Archery checks out against
any list of_ qualifications for the
perfect Sport, at least in the opin-
ions of those recreational direc-
tors with whom we have talked

so far.

So, make your own decision.‘ Per-
sonally, we're going right on selling
archery tackle. More each year, inci-
dentally, for each year of the 17 we
have been in business. Archers buying
tackle only from us, last year bought
$3,000,000 worth of equipment. That,
you know, takes quite a few archers.

 

33

No Trouble At All

CHOOL WAS SOON to be closed. The car was
8 old and there were no tires to be had. What

was one to do in the city with summer vaca—
tion and four healthy children?

We called a family council for suggestions.
Emily, who was 12, said, “Let’s run a camp at
home.” Run a camp in our own backyard—a city
lot 80’ x 116’! We had planted many trees and
bushes to make it a nice place to play. But a camp
program? . . . Well, we did that very thing. To-
gether we set up a schedule of work, handcrafts,
special interests, trips, parties, overnight camping
and cook-outs.

The family consisted of Daddy, who was not on
vacation and not always home even at dinnertime,
but was great on cook-outs, making beanhole beans
or a pie baked in the ashes; M om, who became
camp chief; Emily, who named herself Pocahontas ;
David, IO years old, Chief Wahoo; Hubert, seven
years, called Little Feather; and James, the Pa-
poose, who was only two.

Though that sounds like an Indian Camp it was
so in names only, for we did whatever seemed
interesting and did not follow a theme. Every
morning Chief set up the schedules and posted
them on the bulletin board on the back porch. No

camp is complete without work—so we did all that
was necessary.

Schedules

Our schedules varied from day to day. Each
period was marked by chimes—three long pipes of
different lengths hung to a tree limb and struck
with a croquet mallet. Rising chimes were at 7 :30
A.M. Breakfast was at 8. By 8:30 each camper
was to have made his own bed and be ready for

personal schedules. Monday schedules went as
follows:

Pocahontas Chie)c Wahoo Little Feather

8:30 Dishes Help with laundry Look after
“Pick up” Papoose
downstairs

10 :00 Piano or Hang out clothes Help 'bring out
personal clothes
interests Play in yard

11:30 Prepare Free time Free time
lunch

12:00 Lunch . Lunch ' Lunch

12:30 Dishes Dishes Begin rest period

1 :00 Rest Rest Rest

2:00 Handcraft Handcraft in Handcraft in
in backyard backyard ibackyard

34

By CATHERINE P. WEIKART
Youngstown, Ohio

Pocahontas Chief Wahoo Little Feather
4:00 Free play Free play away Free play at
from home friends’ -
6:00 Dinner Dinner Dinner

7:00 Free play
at home or
friends’

In the evening period we took special trips to
the park for baseball or games or went on a nature
hike or cook-out.

On Tuesday, Chief ironed while Pocahontas
practiced the piano. Wahoo did the breakfast
dishes. Little Feather played with Papoose and
picked up trash in the yard. At the 10 chimes
Pocahontas did her ironing while Chief mended
the clothes. ,Wahoo mowed the lawn and Little
Feather built his tree house and played in it. Lunch
at noon was followed by doing the dishes and rest
period until the 2 chimes rang for handcraft. The
schedule proceeded as on Monday for the rest of
the day.

Wednesday was a special day. Chief did up the
dishes with Feather’s help, while the others looked
after Papoose and straightened up the house. By
IO all were ready, on- alternate weeks, for a trip
to the public library. Papoose enjoyed it as did
the rest, spending his time in the Mothers’ room
looking at the picture books. He always had a
number of books to bring home, never failing to
include a train picture._ Rest period was never
hard to keep on these days, for each had his nose
in his favorite book, well satisfied to be left alone.
At the end of the season the two older children
had read I4 books and all had borrowed many
more.

Wednesday was a good day for Little Father
and his friends to do handcrafts. (The others
could not be pried from their books.) Such things
as little weather vanes or paddle boats could be
made of orange crates or small scraps of boards in
the two-hour period. Every boy and many girls
in the neighborhood made a brightly painted boat.
The rubber for the paddle wheel we cut from an
old inner tube that somehow had missed the scrap
collection.

Daddy was seldom home on Wednesday. So at
5 o’clock we would start out, each with his own
lunch, for Indian Circle in our beautiful Mill

Free play at home Free play at home

RECREATION

LOOK TO WILSON

For the Latest and the Best!

 

In Baseballs

By every form of com-
parison—materials,
workmanship and per-
formance—no finer
baseball is made today
than the Wilson
“Official” WISOCC
used by the American
Association and the
Pacific Coast Leagues
exclusively, and many
other important
leagues.

"I AR.
/ . “Nat m. 1..~ a“): 2:40

   
   

Remember this the next time you buy

[fie/em  

baseball equipment—whether it’s a
new ball, glove or mitt, or a uniform

   
 

designed for greater playing-ease and
modern styling—it’s the LAST WORD
from any angle if it’s labeled
"WILSON." Look to the leader for
the latest and best.

   
  
  
 

In Gloves

ilson designers,
edited with many

 

in Mitts

ajor developments in
u orts equipment, have
me up with another
. . the Wilson “Ball
awk”—an entirely
w design in a field-
’s glove that "snares

and holds ’em.”
1» mes in two sizes. Reg.

.3. Pat. OE.

   
  
  
  
   
   
    
 

    

 

It’s the famous “Trap;
per” model—:the‘ sen-
sation of the year in
first basemen’s mitts.
Another example of
the Wilson trademark
identified with the ‘
latest and the best. Reg;

U. S. Pat.OE.

 

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO;

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
A Wilson & Co., inc., subsidiary

IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

36

My“ RY

x 05’

[Mill ® CQAW
@EQQJJ ECTTS

LINOLEUM BLOCKS
WOOD - LEATHER

pLAercs- METAL
KEENE CEMENT

THIRD EDITION REVISED

A workbook containing patterns and directions for

hand craft projects in six different areas.

Boy Scout leaders, recreation directors conduct-
ing playgrounds and community recreation facilities;
park ofhcials; club leaders and others who direct
the activities of young people will find this material

effective because of the simplicity of the projects
suggested the construction of which calls for a

minimum of materials as well as a minimum of
supervision and direction.

TYPICAL PROJECTS

WOODWORK—foys. doorstop. shelves. bird-houses.
stools. ‘

KEENE CEMENT—Candle holders. pen holders. bool:

ends. wall plaque.

LINOLEUM BLOCK PRINTS for each month. birth-
days. Christmas.

LEATHER CRAFT—book marlr. comb case. coin purse.
key case. letter holder.

PLASTICS—letter opener. rings. pins. bracelets. boxes.
METAL CRAFTS—book ends. plaques. trays. bracelets.

Send for this

VALUABLE INSTRUCTIONAL AlD
Today

Price $ | .25 postpaid

Address D.  BLIDE, Chairman
Division of Fine and Applied Art:
State Teacher: College, Minot, North Dakota

 

Creek Park. “We” meant everyone in theineigha

borhood who cared to go. One Wednesday, 10 of
us went for our picnic. A group of office girls just
leaving the picnic spot asked if we would like some
weiners. Would we! Just try to keep a group of
young ones from wanting weiners. We accepted
the gift and added it to our baked beans, pickles
and marshmallows. My, what a feast we did have!

Thursday we got back to business. At 8:30
chimes Chief and Wahoo went upstairs to do the
cleaning. A country friend of Pocahontas came in
on Thursday to swim at a nearby pool. After the
dishes were done, the two went swimming with the
Girl Scouts. The friend stayed all day. At 10
chimes the others went each to his own interest—
swimming, piano, garden, tree house. This was
the time when Chief did a lot of “finishing up” and
“catching up” and preparing lunch, giving Poca-
hontas a rest. By the first Thursday our hand-
craft project was well under way. Four o’clock
was free play time for all.

Friday Wahoo and Pokey, as we came to call
her, exchanged work. Wahoo did the dishes. He
never liked the job, but since it was on the camp
schedule he accepted it. Pokey helped clean the
downstairs and fixed the flowers as a special con-
cession.

Mowing the lawn was too hard for Little
Feather. The porches suffered under his efforts,
but he had to have some scheduled work that he
could do. He helped a great deal by playing with
Papoose. For Papoose, we had a chicken wire
pen which was fixed around the bushes and trees
so that he didn’t realize that he was in a pen. It
was large enough to have sun and shade and the
playthings necessary for a two-year-old. He could
see right through the chicken wire, so it wasn’t
really like being fenced away. When we could, the
rest of us spent time in the yard, too, so he didn’t
feel alone.

After handcraft on Fridays the free time was
given over to games, to croquet, badminton, ping-
pong, duck-on-the-rock, quoits, singing games,
hide-and-seek—-the usual games that little folks
like to play. One Friday there were IO different
games going on at once. This was open-house
night and a campfire followed, with stories, songs
and refreshments.

Soon after camp got under way we pitched a
tent and one or another of the children could have
a friend to spend Friday night in the tent with
him. In the morning they cooked their own break-
fast over the fire. Little Feather had a friend one
night who went home about midnight so Chief had
the rare privilege of spending the rest of the night

RECREATION

1

.r'.

 

* * * In Playground Equipment
experienced buyers demand durabil-

ity, absolute safety, proven' perform-
ance, long service. It is reasonable that
only highest quality equipment will give
you these vital features.

American APPROVED
playground equipment

meets every one of your requirements.
Modern design . . . top quality materials
. . . unexcelled workmanship . . . maxi-
mum' safety . . . superior performance
. . . these are but a few of many plus-
features you receive when you install
American Approved Equipment.

WRITE TODAY

for complete, fully
illustrated catalogs. See why American
has led the way for more than 35 years!

  
 

Ii-
1-

A M E R I C A N
playground abet/ice Co.

l
ANDERSON, INDIANA  ~
:5

World’s Largest Exclusive Manufacturers of Fine Outdoor
Playground. Swimming Pool and Physical Fitness Equipment

J

It

APRIL 1947 37

 

 

PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING POOL and
Basketball Equipment. Bicycle Racks

We still have many unfilled orders, and some materials
are still very scarce. However, we are in production, and
sincerely hope that we may be able to offer practically
normal service before the end of the year.

A new catalog will be issued in April or early May.
Please write for one.

RECREATION EQUIPMENT COMPANY
I ANDERSON, INDIANA

 

 
  

Gimp. Link Belts. Leather Proiects. Glass-
Etching. Looper Clips. Woodcraft. Felt.

Molds for Plaster Casts. Shellcraft.
Shoebuttoncraft. etc.

 
     
   
     
 
 
   
     
     
 
 
  
    

Contact us for your handicraft supplies
Immediate Service

  

PIPE CLEANERS: The ideal craft material

for playgrounds, 100-12” pipe cleaners,
asst. colors. and instruction sheet

$1. per box

PLEXIGLASS REMNANTS — Good sized
pieces, all masked,

$1. per lb. 10 lbs. $9.50

  

  

Write for free catalogue

Cleveland Crafts

Cleveland 15. Ohio

WESTERN OFFICE: 528 East Lafayette
Stockton. Calif.

770-774 Carnegie Avenue

   
     
 

For All Major Sports

BEAUTIFUL
PRIZE CUP

New design with
graceful, classic
lines. Lustrous in
golden Sun-Ray .
finish. Mounted on
polished. ebony-
like base. Stands
13” high. No. 233.
each . . . . “$14.50

Write Dept. R for Free I Illustrated Catalog

N W. LANE Co.

LPH STREET CHICAGO I. ILL.

BOWLING BALL CHARM

And other quality,
individual prizes
and award a for
every major sport
are available.

 

\

in the camp “bed”—the ground! Soon Friday
night camp was in great demand. The tent was
filled up and doubled up until more nights had to
be granted for the privilege. We found that four
were too many in one pup tent!

Saturday we ran our schedule until noon. The
older ones took turns with Sunday preparations.
All work was done by noon and we were off to
Grandpa’s to work in our garden and to cook our
supper in the 01d orchard picnic grounds. Sunday
we went to church and Sunday school. Nothing ‘
else was especially scheduled for that day.

Activities

We had our bulletin board on the screened back
porch. Every morning Chief posted the individual
schedules for the day, adding little surprise items
that came up (such as invitations to birthday
parties). These surprises stepped up interest in
the schedules. Any member of camp could post
interesting items such as:

Two cardinals hatched this morning.

The bunnies were drowned in the cloudburst

yesterday.

A queen ant wandered out of the rotten stump

Little Feather is chopping up.

The staghorn beetle had a tight to the death

under the cherry tree.

Surprising isn’t it how many things can happen
in one’s own backyard?

This camp started one week after school closed
in June and continued until August 21. In our
handcraft work we made five lawn chairs of as-
sorted sizes to suit different ages. The lumber was
discarded crating from a nearby furniture store.
When they were completed, we painted the chairs
green. The one for Papoose was made of an
orange crate. Three were for friends. Five weather
vanes were placed on as many garages. We tin-
ished an unknown number of paddle boats of all
sizes and other odds and ends of woodcraft the
boys took a notion to make.

Best of all were our seven completely equipped
and costumed marionettes. (Two others were
started but not finished.) There were seven neigh-
borhood children besides our own who worked on
marionettes in our shop—the backyard. We com-—
pletely equipped a miniature stage with velvet
curtains (made from a neighbor’s castoff dress)
that pulled as any stage’s should. Two Christmas
tree strings furnished the lights. The scenery was.
hand-painted on the back of a piece of old oilcloth
which rolled on broom handles (Wahoo’s idea).
The furniture was all made from cheese boxes and
covered with the most extraordinary materials.

RECREATION

 

*0 “humming No other play device can
StmctIlWisa compare with the famous
JUNGLEGYM JUNGLEGYM for safety, for

low maintenance cost, and for
beneficial development of a child’s body
and mind. No other play device can com-
pare for popularity with children them-
selves . . . . for the JUNGLEGYM offers
unlimited opportunities for imaginative
play, and satisfies the child’s basic instinct
to climb.

 0N6 ‘

CLIMBING srnurunr. ,

REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.

' A u/
.7 ‘a‘ : -_. __ .1 ‘ 9-; -- _
,:#-¥%;A‘.¢Mis\ _. _ J . ..

Optional.

There are scores of other reasons why
thousands of JUNGLEGYMS are in daily
use from coast to coast! For instance, the
JUNGLEGYM accommodates more chil-
dren per square foot of ground occupied than
any other play device, and costs less per
child accommodated than any other appa-
ratus. No wonder leaders in education, rec-
reation, health and social work have for a
third of a century called the JUNGLEGYM

“the perfect playground device.”

WRITE FOR PORTER’S COMPLETE RECREATION EQUIPMENT CATALOG
Swings o Seesuws o Slides 0 Merry Go Rounds 0 Combinations

“HLPORTER

OTTAWA. [unions

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

 

APRIL 1947

  
   
 

CORPORATION

oumnon menu F... lemma,”

children of all ages; steel construction,
8' 4" long, 6' 3' wide, with 10' 6' tower.

chool

 

  For young children;-

hardwood construction, 5' 0' square, with
6’ 9' tower. Slide 16" wide by 7' 10' long,

39

 

University of Pittsburgh
School of Applied Social Sciences
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION

for men and women
in S ocz'zzl Work

Generic Program and Specializations in

Social Case Work .
Social Group Work

Social Inter-Group Work
Social Research
Administration

“9

' Applications for September I947
are now in order

For information on admirrz'on and fellows/alps
Apply
OFFICE OF THE DEAN

We could make such clover little things for that
stage with lace or velvet scraps from the rag bag.

For our closing night the players made hand-
bills and delivered them in our immediate neigh-
borhood. When the curtain rose (in this same
backyard) 55 adults, sitting about on the lawn,
were waiting with eagerness to see Little Red
Riding Hood. The wolf was of great interest. He
had been made from a fur neckpiece and was very
realistic. Little Feather had the job of wagging his
tail and controlling his head. A Welchman of the
neighborhood led the group in community singing
and others who were musically inclined added to
the evening with special numbers. The show was
a great success—in’interest, if not as a” finished

production. The cast served punch to complete the
evening and camp came to a close.

Many interested visitors dropped in during the
season. We didn’t keep a total attendance chart—-
too much book work for Chief—but our estimate
is that over 500 people “camped” during the sum-
mer. We had a wonderful vacation. No, the baby
didn’t suffer—he really thrived on it.

In the fall a casual acquaintance said to me,
“We didn’t have any trouble with our 10-year-old.
When school was out we bought him a bike. In

40

the mornings I packed him a lunch and we didn’t
have to bother with him until dinnertime. We

never even knew where he was.”
We did! He came to our handcraft sessions

almost daily! No, no trouble at all!

 

 

Now Off the Press

8 WE GO TO PRESS with this playground issue of
RECREATION, two new booklets have come
from the printers ready for distribution. We are
glad to be able to tell you about them, for we think
they will be of interest to playground leaders and
to all recreation workers everywhere.

Clubs in the Recreation Program (price 25
cents) charts a course for the leader who wants to
set up all kinds of clubs for all kinds of people.
There is a special section on “Clubs in the Play-
ground Program.” The whole booklet is designed
to put together in one place the answers to all the
hundreds of questions about clubs that have come
into the National Recreation Association office
over the years, and to answer them simply and
directly and effectively.

The second new publication is planned to help
you explore the increasing need for recreation
programs tailored to fit the past—middle-agers. It
is titled 11% Plus—Recreation for Older People
and is also priced at 25 cents. It suggests some
questions that must be asked'before any commu-
nity sets up a program for this important segment
of our population, points to possible'answers to
those questions, and cites examples of different
kinds of community action‘that has been taken in
meeting the problem.

We think you’ll like these booklets—like the
format worked out to give you a maximum of in-
formation in a minimum of reading time, like the
gay illustrations and the fine job of layout and
printing, like having between one set of covers a
digest of all the information that has come to the
National Recreation Association from over the
whole country.

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of ?
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Public Alanagement, January 1947

Management Policy on Employee Relations, Orin
F. Nolting

RECREATION

 

This famous H 8: B Oval and fhe personal
aufograph of a famous hif'l'er wriffen on
fhe barrel end are fhe qualiiy hall-marks
found on no ofher make of baf.

 

“It’s your assurance
of the finest”—

No use to paint a pool
if the coating won ’t stay on

To preclude any possibility of peeling, a swimming pool enamel must be resistant to water.
Being thoroughly waterproof, RAMUC is not affected by continuous submersion; and never

blisters or flakes off. This quality explains why a RAMUC job doesn’t need repainting until
it has worn thin—two or three season later.

Water and sun cause most pool paints to fade; a half-bleached-looking pool is surely no
inducement to swim. Yet the swimming pool painted with RAMUC Enamel is a credit to
the community. Pool Managers know that RAMUC is not only colorful, but is color-fast.

Mr. C. K. MacDonald, owner of the beautiful Idlewild Pool at Ligonier, Pennsylvania, is a
great booster of RAMUC; it doesn’t fade and it doesn’t peel.

Ask for fhe "Swimming Pool Handbook."
No obligaiion. of course.

lNERTOL CO., INC.

470 FRELINGHUYSEN AVE. [9 SOUTH PARK
NEWARK 5. N. J. SAN FRANCISCO 7. CALIF.

 

First Name in Trampolining
presents

MODEL 5000-T
The Original-Advanced

TRAMPOLINE*

*Name TRAMPOLINE Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

Improved—Refined by Ten Years
DESIGN. TESTS and USE in Gyms and

Armed Forces—at Y's, Pools.
Camps and Beaches

FOLDS READILY o EASILY MOVED
Now AVAILABLE at 5209-00

Complete—[0.3. Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Write for Free Literature

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE
zooA AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA

    
 

Saul/or
The PBDEEEDINBS

of the

ANNUAL CONVENTION
S‘l'. Louisl Mo., Aprill I946

American Association for HealthI
Physical Education and
Recreation

  

 
   
     
     
    
 
 

  

Condensations of division meetings, work-

shops, and general assembly addresses on
health, physical education and recreation.

 
   
   
 
   
  

Price $| .00
Order from the Armciation Office

|20l SIXTEENTH STREET. NW

l . WASHINGTON 6. D. C. ‘

42

   
 

 

 

 

Courtesy New York Herald Tribune

Paul P. Harris

Founder of Rotary International

PAUL P. HARRIS, founder of Rotary Interna-
tional, was always a good friend of the Na-
tional Recreation Association and of the whole
movement. During the first World War the Asso-
ciation did much in cooperation with Rotary In-

ternational and came to know the rare spirit of
Paul P. Harris.

Improving the Appearance of Cities, David D.
Rowlands

Architectural Record, February 1947
Riverfront Redevelopment for Cincinnati

The American City, February 1947
Plans for a CooPerative “Balanced Community”

NEA Journal, February 1947

The Schools and Juvenile Delinquency, Donald -

DuShane

Parks and Recreation, February 1947

Park Commissioners Conduct Panel on Concessions

Chicago’s Lake Front Parks and Parkways

Park Finances for Smaller Cities (Institute Conven-
tion address by George L. Chesley)

RECREATION

 

Frederick Noble Evans '

REDERICK N. EVANS’ death November 30, 1946,

brought to an end the long career of municipal
service of Sacramento, California’s, superintend-
ent of parks. After receiving his Master’s Degree
in landscape architecture Mr. Evans spent several
years in Cleveland, Ohio, designing gardens in
that area. Then for two years he gave short
courses on parks and subdivision designing at the
University of Illinois and later was assistant pro-
fessor of the Division of Landscape Architecture.
In 1920 he resigned from the University of Illinois
to become city landscape architect for Sacramento.
In this position he had charge of over 1,200 acres
of city land and designed many other parks, and
he was the first to promote Sacramento’s iiower
show on a large scale. Mr. Evans was the author
of the book Town Improvement, and he wrote
many articles on street trees and gardens. His,
hobbies included painting in oils and tending his
own garden.

 

 

Vandalism (Institute Session talk by Hermann
Karrow)
The Maintenance Mart

Camping Magazine, January. 1947

Winter Camping—A New Frontier, Fay Welch

Too Much Freedom for Camp Counselors? Henry
E. Utter

New Building Construction Materials, Julian H.
Salomon

Outline of Insurance, William V. Dworski
Camping in France, Susan F leisher

The American City, January 1947

New Satellite Town of 25,000 Planned, Philip M.
Klutznick

Distinctive Features of Insurance Company’s Individ-
ual Home Development, Van Ness Bates

Drivelopment Plans for Cincinnati’s Blighted River-
ront

Safety Education, February 1947
Chicago. Plans for Safe Neighborhoods, H. Evert
Kincaid
Parks and Recreation, January 1947

Training for Park and Landscape

(Talk |by George J. Albrecht)
The Maintenance Mart

Think, January 1947
Sportsmanship and World Peace, Thomas V. Haney

Junior League Magazine, January 1947

The Strategy of Art
All This and Transcriptions Too

PAM PH LETS

Recreation in Cambridge

Plg/Inning Board, City Hall Annex, Cambridge 39,
ass. ‘

Report of the Recreational and Cultural Resources Survey
of the State of Washington

Office of the Secretary of State, Olympia, Wash-
ington

APRIL 1947. .

Management

MI Ella? Y FIELD OFS’Pokzz .

in every field of sport in Proies
sionaI, Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
baIi and Softball, in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools, in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial RecreationI
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hair-
mari: of quality and unvarying
periormanca.

“x

 W747” yam jim- 53;:'.=.'.::a3=.=:.  
\ digit" ..   

F'Ncrnuntt to Cit-HO. u. s, A

 

PICTORIAL PUBLICITY
or Your RECREATIONAL FACILITIES

EFFECTIVE O ECONOMICAL 0 PROFITABLE

PICTURE POST CARDS,

. SOUVENIR FOLDERS

Reproduced From Your Own Photos

Write For Free Samples
ARTWE POST CARD COMPANY

225 Fifth Avenue New York 10. N. Y.

 

   

[M V: rou sear ran 71/15 IRE! 300M”?

JUST OFF THE PRESS—this Impor-
tont booklet, chuck full of voluoble

focts on getting your High School
Boxing Progrom underwoy Is yours
FREE for the asking. Written by
John Walsh, it clears up numerous
misconceptions obout boxing—espe—
cioIIy voluoble to newcomers in the
program.

NATIONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT CO.

‘365 No. Marquette
FOND DU LAC, WIS.

Makers of NATIONAL Gym Mots,
Boxing Rings, and kindred
equipment

43"

 

Print by Gedge Harman

WORLD AT PLAY

OKLAHOMA City’s Teen
Time program was three
years old last November.
Recreation, dancing, a discussion period, and a

. Getting Together

closing Candlelight Worship Service have been .

bringing teen-agers together at the First Unitarian
Church. There were only 14 young participants
when the program was first begun, but now, be-
cause of increasing popularity, Teen Time mem-
bers have been divided into a junior high group
meeting on Sunday nights and a senior high group
meeting on Saturday nights.

THE “Farmer in the
Dell,” “The King of
France,” “London
Bridge,” and “Lobby Loo” shared the spotlight
with more than 500 youngsters in a singing games
contest. The annual competition, held in St. Paul,
Minnesota, for children under 12 years of age, was
under the direction of junior leaders. One of the
primary purposes of the contest was to give the
junior leaders an opportunity to develop leader-
ship and gain confidence in their ability to direct
groups. Scoring points for the singing games were
awarded to the competing recreation centers on
the basis of their leader’s ability, the play spirit
displayed, total participation, general organization,
and the number of spectators who cheered the
local program.

Sing a Game

44

A BICYCLE built for one
is part of the recreation
and exercise prescribed
for veterans. Bicycles are being distributed among
110 Veteran Administration hospitals and homes.
Two wheelers are also being made available to
men and women veterans for rides about hospital
grounds, group trips to nearby points of interest,
and for other recreation and entertainment pur-
poses.

Free Wheeling

WINONA, Minnesota, en-
couraged its. female citi-
‘zens to be creative. A
textile painting class for women was organized at
two recreation centers. Members designed hand
towels, pillow cases, aprons, dish towels, table
cloths and napkins, handkerchiefs, dresser scarfs
and other household necessities and luxuries.

For the Ladies

WALKING devotees were
well taken care of in Lan-
caster, Pennsylvania. A
hiking club was organized which met alternately
Saturday and Sunday afternoons during the spring
and autumn months. The hikes were for grown-
ups, but children were invited to attend if accom—
panied by an adult.

On .Your Feet

RECREATION

  
  

 

ULF SANI-SOIL-SET is the practical answer to
o- r dust annoyance problems. Here are a few of

e many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
stigate this efhcient dust-control medium now:

IGHLY EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust

noyance completely immediately after application.
0 long waiting periods are necessary before the ground

ready for use. The dust allaying effect is accomplished
. the action of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
g down dust particles.

1  LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
d insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains

eCtive for long periods. One application per season
year 18 usually sufficient.

\

“F

“‘9 1“. 'IranIL‘n

 

Gulf Oil Corporation o Gulf Refining Company

Division Sales Offices:

Boston ° New York ° Philadelphia t Pittsburgh I Atlanta

New Orleans - Houston - louisville ' Toledo

v - a,
i ,c.
. an.
' V 'Anf
'h ' I. '
‘.I . n I
1 . . r
. .2 _ ‘- . ' _  u
if 1.. -' ~ . "‘ , M. ’  ‘ v ‘ '
.-. . , 3}." ‘ ‘ i. ' “i : i
n- ' _ . ,' * ' _ _.
J ""5 ~ ‘.’  - .h _ i . .
; ‘_ . . . - . . g o
o- r «=- 2 .5 a,
. _ . 42.55“
. ,, '\- 2 5:3).
_ . agar
..
' ~ “he;
-_ ~—
I% I u - :Lf'm
I“ .I "-:I. l 'o
. ..\ ,
_ . 4 .2 l ’ ' ‘-
ll?

,, x~a
o

    

 

§‘ '2
" 32:.yar‘tw‘. ‘F r

_ r '_ . . :5
. .4 ' I 1,; _E_.f. _
n r t ' .... .
539 n...-,N_; -. .. . _ . ( a .  I  .I
. ..
‘° ‘ . r , ’ Wig, .
l a? t. 3%
.n.
o.
H. I)

. . ,
.' --:
.-' I. ‘.
I w;
.: '--:3-
.,"~ "r
a"...
. ..- “‘2
.Ih ‘..f,¢’\ (“r ‘ ' I’D“ ‘

- . in. , a '
z -..- "' , .-. .h' L112... ---A_ “In. .MN'.‘ .‘ J v ‘ '-” I ' ' . . _. r .433 n- "-175.- 3 ‘ w. ' .' v n " - \- ' - .4
-- marmnrgzuuw‘ 42... *1  .53“... 1.1....” ~m“W’ :"Wém’r: " ii"; ,2. x  ewm’ WWW  M“‘W-“t-m'muwawfm -.m. w i an.

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,
easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly
and uniformly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set

prevents the growth of grass on areas treated, and mini-
mizes duSt annoyance and expense in near-by houses,
stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or. phone your nearest Gulf ofhce .
today and-ask for a demonstration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have not yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below.

—_-—————-——————"——————_—_——0

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet, “Gulf
Sani-Soil-Sct—the modern, prOVen agent for controlling dust.”

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

""""""'"""'l

CONSTRUCTIVE FUN

Keep ’em

          
 

busy with
these popular
“Self-Help”

Simplified Drawing .......................... ..$1.50
Working in Leather............................ 1.00
Fundamentals of Wood Working .... .. 1.00
Fundamentals of Clay Modeling ...... .. 1.00
Essentials of Creative Design .......... .. 1.00
Simplified Art Anatomy .................. .. 1.00
Figure Drawing Without a Model .... .. 1.00
The Secrets of Cartooning .............. .. 1.00
The Art of Doing Portraits .............. .. 1.00
Oil Painting .................................... .. 1.00
Water Color Painting ...................... .. 1.00
Pastel Painting ................................ .. 1.00
Landscape Painting ........................ .. 1.00
Drawing for Children ...................... .. 1.00
Arts Cr Crafts for Children................ 1.00
Practical Home Decorating .............. .. 1.00

New Titles Constantly Being Added
Send for Complete List of
Adults' and Children’s Art Books

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS
80 East I Ith St, New York 3, N.Y.

.a- -

First Choice
for

Every Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

1+ I-- +- - _ I \ I
“I, 
f”! F/Nfsr IN I”! F/IlD .’
MINUFACIUIINO COMPANY 0 SI. LOUIS 3, MO.

 
 
 
 
 

-

 
     

     

Folk Festival—The thirteenth annual Na-
tional Folk Festival will be held May 21, 22, 23,
24 in St. Louis. Folk songs, music and dances of
diverse cultural heritages will be feature attrac-
tions. The festival, sponsored by the Associated
Retailers of St. Louis, will be held in the Opera
House of Kiel Municipal Auditorium. Groups
wishing to participate should write to Miss Sarah
Gertrude Knott, National Folk Festival Associa-
tion, 511 Locust Street, St. Louis I, Missouri.

On Stage—The Show must go on—even after
a four year layoff. So the Berkeley Community
Players of California were reorganized. The Play-
ers lent their talents to productions of Stage Door,
The M ale Animal, and M’liss. They also put on
three one act plays Still Stands the H ouse, Way
of a W ife, and H eaven on Earth.

Our Future Fishermen—Don’t be too sur-
prised if your son and daughter become lish con-
scious. A new, non-profit corporation, Better Fish-
ing, Inc., has been organized with the initial pur-
pose of teaching youngsters how to fish. Its pro—
gram is three-fold—educational, recreational and
scientitic. Better Fishing, Inc. proposes to make
boys and girls aware of the fun in fishing and the
value of the preservation of our country’s natural
resources.

Training Institutes for Recreation Leaders—
The School of Health, Physical Education and
Recreation of Indiana University announces the
following training institutes for recreation leaders
for the spring of 1947: May 23, 24 and 25, In-
dianapolis ; June 6, 7, and 8, Calumet Extension
Center, East Chicago, Indiana; June I 3, I4, and
15, Fort Wayne, Indiana.

The institute is sponsored by the School of
Health, Physical Education and Recreation and
the Division of Adult Education and Public Ser-
vices of Indiana University with the cooperation
of local directors of municipal recreation. Corre-
spondence should be directed to Garrett G. Eppley,
Field Recreation Consultant, Indiana University,
Bloomington, Indiana.

Teen-Agers Take Over—In Richmond, Vir-
ginia, the usual recreation situation was reversed.
Teen—agers helped plan activities for their moth-
ers, fathers, and other adults at 19 evening com-
munity centers. Crafts, drama, club work and
parties were the highlights of their programs. In-
dustrial, civic, social, and religious groups partici-
pated. Young and old enjoyed square dancing

RECREATION

 

George W. Ehler

N FEBRUARY I 5, George W. Ehler died at his

home in Kew Gardens, New York, at the age

of 81. About six years ago he retired as assistant

to the Chief Scout Executive of the Boy Scouts of

America and Director of the Boy Scout Statistical
Service.

In the early days of the National Recreation As-
sociation he was closely associated with his friend
Luther Halsey Gulick, and very active in helping
with the work. He served as Secretary of the
Public Athletic League and the Children’s Play-
ground Association’ in Baltimore, and later was
professor of physical education and director of
athletics at the University of Wisconsin. He was
active in working with Dr. Clark W. Hetherington
and others on the first normal course in play,
which appeared about 38 years ago. He saw very

clearly much that was to happen in the recreation
movement in America.

 

 

with string music, shop, sewing, drama, forums
and other activities. There were I I 3 recreation
workers at the center and an attendance of 106,164.
The school board contributed the full use of school
buildings and assisted with special leadership.

National Boys and Girls Week—“Youth—
the Trustees of Posterity” will be the theme of the
27th annual observance of National Boys and
Girls Week, April 26 to May 3. Activities planned
for the celebration will emphasize education, rec-
reation, home life, health, safety and other impor-
tant factors in the growth of youth.

CompetitionHBaitcasters were challenged to
show their skill in Minneapolis at a playground
baitcasting tournament climaxing the Northwest
Sportsman’s Show. A total of 255 boys and 70
girls entered the preliminary tourneys. Casters
from Anoka, Mankato, and New Brighton as well
as from Minneapolis competed in the final round.

Facts and Figures—Westchester County,
New York, according to a recent report is going
places recreationally speaking. It has 17 year-
round public recreation programs with annual
budgets running from $5,000 to $103,000. There
are, in addition, 15 part-time or seasonal pro-

grams. A total sum of $620,000 was appropriated
1n the county for recreation in 1946.

APRIL 1947

 

UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING

Summer Session Offerings

Second Annual Worksho in Recreational Leadership,
June 23-July 25, 2-8 cre it hrs. Complete offering of
undergraduate and graduate courses in Health, Physi-
cal Education, Recreation. Coaching SChOOlLAuguSt
4-9. inc. Organized trips to Yellowstone, The Black
Hills, Grand Canyon, Pike’s Peak, Central City, Fish-
ing and outdoor life in the “Old West” and the
“Rockies.” Fees reasonable. Housing available.
Quarter June 6-Aug. 15. "Session," June 23-July 25.

Inquire of
Director . Summer Session

UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING
Laramie. Wyoming

 

, DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
ale and for amateurs who know the value

of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard omcial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and OHicial
Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

'«Ie cum avenur Iuwrn. mun.

Boxing Without Thumbs—Boxing gloves
have been revolutionized—no thumbs! MacGregor-
Goldsmith, sports equipment company of Cincin-
nati, Ohio, developed the “thumbless” glove to
prevent dislocation of thumbs and protect oppo-
nents from eye injuries resulting from thumb jabs.
Created four years ago, the “thumbless” model is
described as an internal, cone-shaped palm grip
placing the knuckles on a level line, thereby absorb-
ing the blow through the hand and consequently
reducing injuries. Foamed leather is provided for

the heel of the hand.
47

   

Your Manners Are Showing
By Betty Betz. Verses by Anne Clark. Grosset & Dun-
lap, New York. $2.00.

HERE’S GOOD ADVICE for the teen-age crowd that’s easy

to take because the author speaks teen language in
both words and pictures. Many of the problems that come
with the business of growing up are handled with clever-
ness and dexterity and without the kind of solemn adult
superiority calculated tO irritate any young thing under
21. The book is 'highly recommended for teen-age librar—
ies be they in teen centers, schools or elsewhere. Adult
leaders, incidentally, might find some hints for handling

the younger set, will certainly find an hour’s entertain-
ment in Y our Manners Are Showing.

Band and Orchestra Handbook .

Pan-American'Band Instrument Company, Elkhart, In-
diana. $1.00.

IS LITTLE BOOK has some useful information for those

interested in the larger instrumental ensembles. The
chapters on organization give special attention to the
group instruction method, and further chapters are de-
voted tO aptitude tests, proper care of instruments, seat-
ing plans, tuning charts, the marching band, conducting
and recording and broadcasting. There is an initialchapter
on music and the basic objectives of education and a
comprehensive section outlining practical fund-raising
ideas. A model constitution for a “Music Parents Club”
indicates how such a group could function as a stimulus
and a standby for a band or orchestra composed of young
peeple.

Sing in Praise

By Opal Wheeler. E. P. Dutton and Company, Inc.,
New York. $3.00.

HERE IS ANOTHER of the delightful songbooks compiled

by Opal Wheeler. Like Sing for Christmas, Sing
Mother Goose and Sing for America this volume com-
bines with the words and music of familiar songs, stories
Of the creation and illustrations in color and in black and
white.

Sing in Praise is a book of 19 hymns that are, or
should be, a.part Of every child’s musical vocabulary.
The stories and Marjorie Torrey’s pictures add interest
and pleasure for any individual singer or group Of singers.

.River of the Sun

By Rose Calom. University of New Mexico Press,
Albuquerque, New Mexico. $3.50. ’

HESE "STORIES OF THE STORIED GILA” can :be helpful to

the recreationist in many ways. The book itself is full
Of stories well worth including in any library of leisure—
time reading. Beyond that there is much lore and color,
many facts and word portraits that may well form the
background for pageants or plays, craft classes or nature
clubs. Or, on a more academic plane, the book could be
useful for any club or group which 'has for its collective

hobby the collection Of interesting facts about the United
States.

48

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field .

Group Process in Administration

By Harleigh B. Trecker. The Womans Press, New
York. $2.75.

THIS Is A BOOK not only for administrators but also for

board members and for other volunteer workers. Vari-
ous groups in each educational, religious and social
agency ought to understand what the needs are to be met,
think problems through together and work together on
plans for meeting the needs. It is important to avoid
wasting time on what is not essential and to take plenty
Of time for what is vital. The primary function of ad-
ministration, as Mr. Trecker sees it, is to provide leader-
ship of a continuously helpful kind, so that all persons
engaged in the manifold workings Of the agency may
advance the agency to ever more significant service and
accomplishment.

Fun at the Playground. Fun. in Swimming

By Bernice Frissell and Mary Friebels. MacMillan Com-
pany, New York. -

THESE BOOKS—priced $1.00 and $1.20 respectively—are

delightfully illustrated by Kate Seredy. They are
attractive and very interesting “sports reader-s” for young
children with second grade reading ability—excellent
preparation for the enjoyment of the playground and the
swimming pool. Teachers, librarians, and any leaders Of
groups Of elementary-age children will wish to add these
to their children’s libraries. The situations are simple

and natural, with realistic children as the characters.
Recommended.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUs T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRs. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Au sta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, OOdbUf¥ N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. . .
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. \VINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY

RUTH EHLERS

JANE F ARWELL

ANNE LIVINGSTON

. FRANK STAPLES

GRACE WALKER

April, May and June

Watertown, S. D.
April 21-25
*Peoria, Illinois
June 2-6
*Lexington, Ky.
June 9- 13
*Janesville, Wis.
June 16-17
*Beloit, Wis.
June 18-20
Manhattan, Kans.
April 28-May 2
*Akron, Ohio
May 12-16
*Davenport, Iowa
June 9-13
Kennebec, Me.
April 7-11
Oxford, Me.
April 14-18
Franklin, Me. "
April 21-25
Aroostook, Me.
April 28- May 2
Gates Mills, Ohio
May 19-24
Oglebay Institute
May 29-June 1
Rad ford, Va.
April 14-18

Parkersburg, W. Va.

May 5-9 .

York, Pa.

May 19-21
*Steubenville, Ohio

June 9-11
*Providence, R. I.

June 2-6

Austin, Texas

March 31-Apri111

Birmingham, Ala.
April 28-May 9

Pennsylvania State College

June 4-6
St. Paul, Minn.
April 7-25

 

George D. Jenkins, First Congregational Church
R. L. Horney, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Anna S. Pherigo, Board of Park
Commissioners

Pat Dawson, Department of Physical Education
and Recreation, Janesville Public Schools

H. L. Jacobson, Department of Recreation,
Board of Education

Leo Green, Director of Recreation

A. E. Center, Director of Recreation
Ted Corry, Director of Recreation

For information about any of Miss Farwell’s
Mame Iinstitutes get in contact with

G. E. Lord, Agricultural Extension Service,
Orono, Me.

Mrs. Irving Gressle

E. N. Steckel, Wheeling, W. Va.
Oglebay Institute, Wheeling, W. Va.
W. W. Dukes, Superintendent of Recreation

W.  Pearson, Director, Wood County Recre-
ation Commission, 1811 St. Mary’s Avenue

Miss Margaret R. Swartz, Superintendent
of Recreation

F. Y. Linton, Director, Parks and Recreation
Department

John Cronin, Recreation Department

B. S. Shcflield, Acting Director of Recreation
King Sparks, Jr., Parks and Recreation Board

A. L. Baker, Agricultural Extension Service,
State College. Pa.

Dorothy T. Grifiiths, International Institute,
Inc., 183 W. Kellogg Boulevard

*Summcr playground institutes.

In addition to the institutes listed above, the National Recreation Association is also conducting
May 12-24 a two—week training course in recreation activities for colored leaders. This institute will be
held in Washington, D. C., at the Banneker Center Servicemen’s Club. The Recreation Department of
the District of Columbia is cooperating in connection with local arrangements. The institute will be
directed by E. T. Attwcll, Field Representative of the National Recreation Association. On the staff will
be Mrs. Anne Livingston, Miss Grace Walker, Frank Staples, James Madison and Arthur Todd. The
course will include music; drama, choric verse and creative recreation; arts and crafts; social recreation;
recreative athletics; and community organization and administration. The number of registrations for
the institute is necessarily limited. Applications should be addressed to Mr. Attwell.

Staff workers of the National Recreation Association are also cooperating this summer in camp
leadership training institutes in South Carolina and Tennessee. Both institutes will be conducted June
9-20. H. G. Metcalf is to be director of the Tennessee institute at Montgomery Bell State Park. (For
further information write B. R. Allison at White Bluff.) Reynold Carlson will direct the nature program
at the South Carolina institute. (For further information write to C. West Jacocks, State Commission

of Forestry, Columbia, S. C.)

“. . . there is a major and over-all objective toward
:which we ,_ aim.= It is the preparation and adjust-
° ment of the. individual for global living, which is of
deep concern to all agencies serving youth today. In
this particular field of endeavor, I believe recreation
' holds an enviable, as well as precarious position. We
as recreation people work in the most precious ma-
terial earth or heaven affords—humanity. Through
correct interpretation, our service can transcend bar-
riers of age, race, creed and color, and even the bore-
dom of free time.

- “If we are to believe the forecasts of leaders in
education, scientihc research, the world is about to
enter (as one educator says) an era of ‘bread and
circuses.’ Our concern will not be how to survive an
atomic age, but how to live in it. We will be faced
with two problems—-—security and boredom, the latter
due to a superabundance of free time made available
through inventions of an atomic age. There will, there-
fore, be ever increasing demands upon recreation pro-
grams to teach the individual how to use this time in
ways enjoyable and profitable both to himself and his

community.”

—Ruby M. Payne, Director, CriSpus Attucks
Recreation and Community Center.

 

