. .
..
1-. n I . '
r .
I
. _ ‘ “A - . . “I
c I
l ' I
a
I I |,
I? "
.
I —
O -— _
.
_ I
‘ I
I
I
I | I
I
I I
I
II
I
I
I. ‘
I
I
ue
. I.
U

 

October 1947

 

it

Vol. XLIl No. 7 Price 35 Cem‘s

 

RECREATION

it in Octoéer I947

 

Letter from President Truman . . . . . . . .. 313

Recreational Growing Pains,

by Rebecca F. Gross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 315
Small Town Art Exhibits, ,
by Stanley Rough . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 318

29th National Recreation Congress . . . . . . 320

Community Contacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 322

Recreation, County-Wide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323

Children First, by Ivan B. O’Lane . . . . . . . 326
“Our Share of J oy,”

by William M. Smith, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
After School Program . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 330
Dads Lend a Hand,

by Matt F. Antonovich . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Recreation Travels the Airwaves . . . . . . . 332
Fiorello H. LaGuardia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334

Recreation Center Pays Dividends,
by Elmer Ingalls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335

A Home for the Admiral . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336

I

Recreation Comes to Somerville,
by C. Palmer Bateman . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 337

Box Top Broadcasters, by Cliff Kerby. . . 339
USO Reconverts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 340

Folk Dancing in the High School,
by Fred W. Franz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341

Community Square Dance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344

Teen-Age'Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346

Introducing . . . C. E. Reed . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

The County Helps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355

Keep Fit in an Ancient Manor,

by Edward J. Macdonald . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356

New Publications in the Leisure

Time Field . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360

Cover print by Gedge Harmon

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. N. Y.: is on hle in public libraries and is indexed in .the Readers' Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-
class matter June 12. 1929. at the Post Office in New York, New York, under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1. 1924.

Copyright 1947, by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-ONE, NUMBER SEVEN O"

 

Pub/fr  o r, . 

dthun”
THE WHITE HOUSE .

WASHINGTON

July 26, 1947

Dear Mr. Braucher:

It gives me great pleasure to extend hearty felicita-
tions and warmest personal greetings to the members of the
Twenty-ninth National Recreation Congress, to be held in New
York City.

‘ It is decidedly in the interest of the National welfare
that so many local recreation agencies in cities, countries and
towns, are providing the leadership and the financial backing
necessary to insure wholesome recreation facilities.

The right of children to play, to sing and to dance; the
right of youth to sport for sport's sake; the right of men and
women to use leisure in the pursuit of happiness in their own
way, are basic to our American heritage.

The National Recreation Congress can perform a construc—’
tive service in providing for the exchange of information and
experience between leaders, interpreting recreation needs to
the nation, and helping to weld together all those of good
will who are working in unity for the enrichment of life
through recreation. ‘

The role of the National Recreation Association is
therefore of the utmost importance. I share the hope that the
forthcoming Congress will again be the means for strengthening
and expanding this essential part of American life.

Very sincerely yours,

(signed) HARRY TRUMAN

Mr. Howard Braucher,
President

National Recreation Association,
515 Fourth Avenue,

New York 10, New York

EB

 

314

RECREATION

Recreational Growing Pains

THE RECREATION BUDGET for Lock Haven, a

city of 12,000 to I 3,000 inhabitants, was exactly,
$800 in 1946. It had been $800 a year for

almost as many years as the members of the Play-
ground Committee could remember. The commit—
tee, which had been originated some 35 years
earlier by the Civic Club, an organization of com-
: munity-minded women, had been drawing $500
from the city and $300 from the school district to
maintain a system of live supervised playgrounds
which were kept open for two months each sum-
mer. Everyone admitted that the results were a
bargain for the amount of money invested.

During the war, however, the question arose:
Was the investment big
enough for the results
that recreation should
produce?

Some other questions
were asked, too.

A few years earlier the
city had been given the
htitle to a site which ex—
isted as a hole in the
ground when it became
municipal property. Grad—
ually, as the depression was tilled up, citizens began
to urge faster action to develop it into the park-
playground envisioned by the donor. As soon _as
the war ended, citizens who wanted to see the
community widen its facilities for youthful recrea—
tion prodded the city and the school district and
the Playground Committee for prompt action.
They wanted more action than could be iinanced
on $800 a year.

As the fruit of their well-timed prodding, led by

a committee of the Rotary Club, Lock Haven, in'

the current year, has a recreation budget of $12,000,
a staff of 15 recreational leaders, eight supervised
play centers, a teen canteen under supervision and
a music program which has deveIOped a commu-
nity band and a beginners’ band. in addition to
providing instruction in stringed instruments for
people looking forward to organizing a community
orchestra.

The program has developed a four—team midget
baseball league of boys from 8 to 12 years of age,
whose games attract crowds so large that three
additional bleacher sections have had to be built

OCTOBER 1947

Recreation is not the exclusive property of
the big cities throughout the country. T ere
are many small towns and villages and rural
areas doing equally tine iobs of bringing rec-

reation to the people in their communities.
Presented in this issue of RECREATION are

several articles about the recreation develop-
ments in some of these smaller localities.

 

By REBECCA F. GROSS

ChairmanI City Recreation Board
Lock Haven, Pennsylvania

since the season Opened, and it also embraces four
baseball leagues for adolescents and young adults.

Under the schedule of activity inaugurated early

' in May by the Recreation Board appointed in

March, 500 children of the public and parochial
schools were taught to swim; and the municipal
beach was expanded and improved with a doubled
staff of lifeguards and much new equipment.

Concentrating on the
facilities which needed
development and aiming
to till the most glaring of
existing needs, the Rec-
reation Board enlisted the
cooperation of such bodies
as the Red Cross, the ser-
vice clubs, and individual
citizens, as well as the
city administration and
the school system, to help
iinance and carry out its aims without duplicating
existing activities and facilities.

The Recreation Board, established under a city
ordinance, is composed of live citizens, two of
whom are members of the School Board, as re—
quired by state law. The chairman is a newspaper
editor, the only woman on the board. The other
members are a banker and three business men, one
of whom is a member of City Council, the Munici-
pal Director of Parks and Public Property. An—
other is a former Council member who also held
the parks post during his term of oiiice. .

Meeting once a month, with their meetings open
to the public, this Board has worked in close co-
operation with the school authorities. Its first move
was to obtain the appointment of a high school
physical education teacher as a recreation director
for the summer season under legislation providing
state aid for community recreation. Its second
major action was to purchase the basic equipment
necessary to carry out a large share of a plan drawn
up by playground experts for development of the
erstwhile hole-in-the-ground into a central play-

. 315

field which could become the keystone of the rec-
reation program for children and adolescents.

The funds available to the Board were a $5.000
appr0priation in the city budget, earmarked for
development of the large playfield, $6,000 in state
and city school funds, earmarked for supervision,
about a thousand dollars in the treasury of the
Playground Committee and another thousand dol-
lars from various other sources, including a sum
apprOpriated by the local Red Cross chapter to pay
the salaries of two lifeguards at the bathing beach.

As the program has worked out, additional
money has been spent on it by volunteer inde-
pendent organizations, whose enthusiasm over
what is being done has led them to raise funds to
carry out pet projects which fit into the overall
scheme. For instance:

A P.T.A. group in one part of the city enlisted
the cooperation of firemen and fraternal organiza-
tions to collect a fund, which is now about $800, to
develop a new playground on a five-acre site prof-
fered to the school district for recreational use.

A pass-the—hat collection amounting to $250 was
made by parents of children using the bathing
beach to purchase a carload of sand to make an
artificial “séashore” on the rocky edge of the
river. The high water of next spring will carry
the sand away, but the people who took up the
collection this year say they will do it again, as
often as necessary. They also bought. a new diving
board, a boat for the lifeguards, beach play equip—
ment and first aid supplies.

The crowds at the Little League baseball games,
in a midget diamond equipped with an electric
scoreboard, grew so large that the voluntary col-

‘ lections ran as high as $50 a game and the League’s '

I

adult advisors paid for ad—
ditional bleachers. The
proceeds of the season are
to be used to take the
youthful players in a body
to see a big league baseball
game this fall.

The staff has included,
besides the director who
supervises the entire pro-
gram and gives his ser-
vices cooperatively to any
organization which needs
his help, the following
employees: a director of
music who has devoted his
time to group instruction
and band work with both
adults and children; an

316

adolescent leader, working only part time, who has
supervised the dancing and games program of the
teen canteen (conducted two evenings a week for
the past year in the City Hall assembly room);
two qualified lifeguards who supervise the beach
ten hours a day, seven days a week; ten play-
ground supervisors and assistants who conduct the
work of the individual play centers six hours daily,
five and a half days a week.

In addition, the program has had the voluntary-
cooperation of nearly 20 college students who are
qualified Red Cross swimming instructors, who
have conducted beginners’ classes for children in
the swimming pool of the Lock Haven State Teach-
ers College. Starting early in May they have
taught an average of two classes every two weeks,
up to the first of August when the pool was closed
for repairs. The pool was also opened an extra
hour daily for a month to allow children who had
passed the beginners’ test to practice their strokes
and do free swimming before they tried to swim
outdoors.

A young man in the physical education depart-
ment at the College earned a couple of practice
teaching credits during the summer on the play-
grounds——with supervision by a member of the
College faculty and the director of recreation.

Members of adult baseball teams and former
baseball players have given their time to the
coaching of the boys’ hardball and softball teams.

Playground basketball

 

RECREATION

I

Resume

In mid-season, a recapitulation of the activities
in progress showed that:

A total of 1,170 children registered at the play-
grounds, with an average daily attendance of 500,
not including 80 boys in the midget league.

At least 500 children had learned to swim, and
the river beach was thronged with an attendance
of adults and children, ranging up to 750 on a
hot day.

A band of 70 pieces had given. three civic con-
certs, two outdoors and one in the College audi—
torium. The band played for the Fourth of July
celebration two weeks after it was organized.
Thirty beginners learned to play band instruments
and as many other stringed instruments;

The teen canteen provides social life for young
adults who attend its parties regularly, with a
turnout ranging from 75 to I75.

Fo'ur adolescent and young men’s leagues for
softball and baseball had a participation of 500
players.

Eighty tennis players registered for cooperative
use of the Teachers College courts, while work is
done on repairing and improving three courts on
city and school-owned property.

There have been disappointments and difficul-
ties in working out the program, with one of the
principal obstacles coming from the weather. A
wet spring delayed necessary work on grading and
conditioning the playgrounds and frequent rains
have interrupted the program of activities. When
outdoor play was “rained out,” however, arrange—
ments were made for the use of the high school
gymnasium for indoor play by the older boys, who
continued there the games they enjoyed outdoors.

The shortage of lumber and other materials, as
well as manpower, made it impossible to provide
the tables, benches, shelters and other construction
which would have improved the playground pro-
grams and eXpanded the city park where play
equipment, picnic facilities and an attractive view
of a scenic panorama attract many visitors.

Plans for next year include these things as well
as one or more all-weather surface play Spaces, so
constructed that they can be used to outwit the
next rainy summer and can serve in the winter as
ice skating rinks. It is also proposed to keep
the playgrounds open with minimum supervision
throughout the autumn season for after-school use.

OCTOBER 1947

 

Jive masters

Close cooperation with the‘Physical Education
Department of the Teachers College is being de—
veloped, with the idea that the recreation program
can be used by the College to give supervised
practice teaching opportunities to its students, and
the faculty of the College can be drawn into the
recreation work as consultants and advisors. The
state’s extension program will also be used through
the winter and it is planned to continue the music
program and provide similar opportunities in
dramatics.

It is the plan of the Lock Haven Recreation
Board, with the cooperation of interested commu—
nity agencies such as the Red Cross, Y.M.C.A.,
the sports leagues, the little theater, the Teachers
College, to develop a comprehensive recreation
program tailored to fit the tastes and needs of the
community. To that end, a recreational survey will
be made this fall by the Board, using College
faculty and advanced students for interviewing.

 

 

Mental health is the ability to live with peeple '
happily, productively, and acceptably, stated Dr.
George Preston of the Maryland Board of Mental
Hygiene, Speaking at a conference recently in Bal-
timore, Md. All who work on mental troubles
agree that recreation has a very large part in the
prevention of mental diseases.

317

Small Town
Art Exhibits

By STANLEY ROUGH

Recreation Director
Aluminum Company of Canada. Limited
ArvidaI P. Q.
n UR TOWN, ARVIDA, site of the largest alumi-
O -num plant in the world, is situated in the
historic Saguenay district of the old Prov-
ince of Quebec. In this city of 9,000 there are over
100 community organizations of all kinds—relig-
ious, recreational, educational, cultural, and fra-
ternal. In 1942 a recreation center was built for the

citizens. It is operated by the Arvida Athletic As-
sociation, Incorporated.

Arvida is an up—to-date, progressive, model
town, but like most small towns it cannot support
some of the organizations associated with large
cities, an art gallery for example. Nevertheless we
have art exhibitions. They started when a local
citizen asked a simple question. The president of
the athletic association expressed regret that it was
difficult to see good paintings, as the nearest art
galleries were located at Quebec and Montreal

several hundred miles away. There seemed, too, to .

be so many things to do when one visited the bright
lights that a visit to the galleries was generally
overlooked. The scope and outlook of the athletic
association is much broader than the name implies
and the matter brought up by the president was
turned over to the arts and crafts committee. This
group investigated the possibilities of sponsoring a
series of art exhibits as a lead-up to the annual
hobby show.

They got in touch with the Provincial Museum
at Quebec City, the National Gallery of Canada at
Ottawa, Ontario, the Art Association of Montreal,
and the Canadian Handicraft Guild. The response
was prompt, and encouraging.

The Exhibits

The first exhibition was supplied by the Ca-
nadian Handicraft Guild. It consisted of samplers
made by groups of women from six of Canada’s
nine provinces, various types of European needle-

318

work, and a display of wood carving. Each sampler
showed the Provincial Coat-of—Arms, or the vari-
ous industries of the Province. Workmanship, de-
sign, and use of color were outstanding. The wood
carving section showed how to make the simple
tools required, and several exhibits illustrated the
progressive steps in the production of the com-
pleted model. Local craft groups and members of
women’s farm clubs were especially interested.

The next display came from the National Gal-
lery. Its director sent two shows: What an Art
Center Can Do for Your Comninnity, and a Silk
Screen Exhibition of Famous Canadian “Paintings.
The art center display consisted of a series of
panels with excellent pictures and a text showing
the development of art in its many forms through-
out the ages; its expression in community life;
and how the interest in drawing, painting, decorat-
ing and designing can be stimulated. The silk
screen prints were like those supplied by the
National Gallery to thousands of Army, Navy, and
Air Force barracks and ‘canteens during the war.
We felt that people would be interested in know-
ing something about the process, so the instructor
of our adult education art class made an illustrated
poster showing eight steps in the silk screen proc-
ess. Frankly, the response was more than we
anticipated. People came as far as 30 miles to see
the exhibition. In three days it_was seen by 2,000
adults and 1,500 school children. I

The National Gallery next sent along 37 water
colors by the Canadian Society of Painters, and
the response was just as enthusiastic. In connec-
tion with this exhibit four oils by Rene Richard of
Baie St. Paul, a contemporary Canadian painter,
supplied added local interest. '

These exhibitions were held in the late winter
and early spring. This seems to be the ideal time,
as people have leisure time before gardening and
summer activities begin.\Each exhibition is open
and two people are on hand to act as a reception
committee. The committee is provided with full
information on the artists, and mimeographed pro-
grams are available for those interested. No ad-
mission is charged, and the exhibits are publicized
in the local press and over the radio.

The final exhibit in 1946 was our most preten-
tious one. In October the Provincial Government
of Quebec sent us their famous exhibition entitled
A Century of Canadian Art. It consisted of 57
oils, valued at $35,000, and contained the works of
many famous artists.

The curator of the Provincial Museum came to
Arvida before the opening and personally super-
vised the hanging of the paintings and the installa-

RECREATION

 

tion of supplementary lighting. He also gave tvm
illustrated lectures, illaria Chapdelaine, and
Legends of the St. Late'rcnce. Because of the im-
portance of the exhibition we decided to operate
for IO days and to issue a printed prograiri. The
curator supplied the information on the various
artists, and enough advertising was sold to cover
printing costs. Programs were sold at 10 cents and
brought in considerable revenue. As our popula-
tion is English and French speaking, our programs
and publicity are bi-lingual. Again the response
was heartwarming. Four thousand adults and
1,500 school children visited the show. Local school
authorities sent the older children with their teach-
ers who prepared short talks to give to their
classes. Many pe0ple came back three or more
times to see the exhibit. Afterwards many could
tell the exactlocation of the pictures.

We are not gullible to believe that we have
thousands of art lovers in our community. 'W e do
know. however, that 75 percent of those who

visited our exhibits made a special effort to attend,
many coming a considerable distance. All those
who came showed interest. Those on duty reported
that no attempts were made to handle the paint-
ings and the “no smoking" regulation in force in
the hall where the exhibit was displayed was re-
spected by the visitors. '

We are fortunate in having excellent facilities
for display. But then, almost any community has
suitable facilities such as a community or school
hall. Additional lighting is a minor problem. We
use heavy paper to cover the walls to provide a
suitable background. In each case our only ex-
pense was the transportation of the exhibits and
the insurance of the paintings while in our posses-
sion. One main exhibition, with a program with
paid advertising, can cover a budget for a season.

For 1947 we are planning a display of hooked
rugs, the Canadian Artists Exhibition (oils) and
a one-man-show by a famous Canadian artist. It
can be done by writing your nearest Art Gallery.

Interested visitors at Arvida's art show

 

OCTOBER 1947

‘6;

Courtcsy Aluminum Company of Canada, Ltd.

319

HE MEN’S COLLARS were high and stiff be-
Tneath tightly buttoned suit coats, the wOmen’s

skirts were long and their “shirtwaists” deli-
cate and billowy in 1908 when the Second Annual
Congress of what was then the Playground Asso-
ciation of America convened at the American
Museum of Natural History in New York City.
Since that date 26 Congresses have been held,
with such cities as Washington, D. C., Los An-
geles, California, and Cleveland, Ohio, playing
host. The week of October 13—17 marks the return
of the National Recreation Congress to the Empire
City—this time not to the Museum but to the sky—
scraping Hotel New Yorker.

Down through the years Congresses have been
held in January, May, June, July, September and
October, wth October proving by far the most
popular. Dates for the Congress, like many other
aspects, have not been selected arbitrarily at the
whim of the Committee, but have been decided
upon according to the wishes of the delegates. In
reality, planning for the next Congress begins as
soon as the last delegates have boarded trains and
buses and headed homewards, probably with weary
feet but certainly with uplifted and renewed rec—
reation spirit.

Following the 1946 Congress held at Atlantic
City, New Jersey, a questionnaire was mailed to
all who had been in attendance. All phases of the
Congress were checked with reference to the time
for holding it, the nature of the program, the
length of the Congress, the topics to be covered
and various other aspects. Replies were received
from nearly 500 delegates from all parts of the
country and all parts of the recreation field.

As a result of this referendum October was de-
termined as the preferred time of year and live

320

days was considered the right length for the Con-
gress (this by a very large majority). The present
method of using summarizers was retained ac—
cording to the expressed sentiments and the dele—
gates_generally preferred to have a large number
of sectional meetings.

Those replying to the questionnaire also indi-
cated that they would like to have an opportunity
to see as many recreation films as possible. The
committee has arranged for motion pictures to be
shown each afternoon Monday through Thursday
from 4:15 to 5 :30 in the Panel Room of the New
Yorker. Delegates who have 16 mm. movies of
local recreation programs are urged to bring them
to the Congress so that possible arrangements
might be made for showing them.

A number of delegates also expressed‘the hope
that there would be an increased opportunity for
new workers to meet old workers. This 'will be
possible not only at the meetings, but at the square
and social dancing events in the evening and
through consultation. Ed Durlacher will lead
square dancing on Monday night, October 13 and
the annual Congress .dance will take place W ed-
nesday evening.

In addition to the checking of questions, the
Congress Committee had the benefit of a great
many very thoughtful letters making suggestions
on details and on general policies. Many delegates
in their letters expressed deep satisfaction with the ‘
spirit that prevails at the Recreation Congress and
of the unifying inHuence it has on the whole move-
ment.

Also commended by a number of delegates was
the essential nature of the Congress in being a
medium for exchanging information and experi—
ences. Many urged that this feature be kept and
no attempt be made to make the Congress a legis-
lative body for fear that some of its present bene-
fits would be lost.

“East Side, West Side”

Delegates this year will have an opportunity to
see some of the public park and recreation facili—
ties offered New Yorkers by means of a specially
arranged tour. This tour, which will be made by '
bus, will begin Wednesday afternoon, October 15,
at 2 P.M. and sightseers will return to the hotel at
6 RM. The itinerary includes a view of play-
grounds, pools, golf courses, ball fields, the Bronx
Park Zoological and Botanical Gardens, Orchard
Beach and several of the Central Park facilities.

The general speakers on the opening night of the
Congress will be Dr. Henry S. Leiper, Executive
Secretary, the American Committee for the world

RECREATION

 

l .
Council of Churches and Walter S. Mack, Jr.,

President of the Pepsi-Cola Company.

“Recreation and the Atomic Age” is the subject
to be discussed Tuesday night by Dr. William
F. Russell, Dean of Teachers College, Columbia
University.

I Robert Moses, Chief Executive of the City and
State Park Systems of New York, will speak on
“Parks and Recreation in New York” Wednesday

evening and will open the floor to questions at the
end of his talk.

The Honorable Oscar L. Chapman, Under Secre-
tary, Department of Interior, will speak Thursday
evening. The Brooklyn Dodgers Knothole Four,
winners of the I3th annual city-wide American
Ballad Contest for barber shop quartets, will also
Ibe featured. \

On Tuesday and Thursday afternoons from 4 to
5 :30 P.M., Miss Steffi Nossen of the Steffi Nossen
School of the Dance, Larchmont, N. Y., will pre-’
sent demonstrations and short lectures on modern
dance in recreation. On Tuesday afternoon from
4 :15 to 5 :30 the New York City Pai‘kDepartment
.will present a marionette and magic show. On
Tuesday and Thursday from 4:15 to 5 :30 and after
the general evening sessions there will be folk and
~square dancing.

Another important feature of the Congress is
the section devoted to exhibits. The funds derived
from the space sold to manufacturers and publish-
ers and other commercial organizations help defray
the cost of the Congress and the exhibits play a
large part in the activities by giving recreation
workers a chance to meet representatives of com-
panies with whom they may already be in contact
or with whom they may wish to transact business
at some future time. The Congress Committee

urges all delegates to take time to visit the exhibits '

rad examine the products displayed.

[CTOBER 1947

Dr. Henry Smith Leiper

 

Robert Moses

Five manufacturers displayed exhibits at the 1908
Congress. This year there are 29 exhibitors and a
booth devoted to a combined book exhibit in which
nine publishing firms are participating. The ex—
hibitors and their booth numbers are as follows:

Ackley, Bradley and Day
Sewickley, Pennsylvania - - - . - - - . - - . - - - o - - - . - .Booth 12

F. Ellwood Allen Organization, New York City. . . .Booth 8

American Handicrafts Co, Inc. -

East Orange,  J , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Booth 1
A. S. Barnes and Co., Inc. a

New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Booth 14
Association of American Playing Card

Manufacturers, New York City - . - - - - - - - - - - o .Booth 3].
The Athletic Institute, Chicago, Illinois . . . . . . . . . .Booth 13
Beach and Pool, New York City . . - o o o - - . . . . o o . . .Booth 10
Boizelle and Eisinger Corporation,

Rockville, Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Booth 30
J. E. Burke Co., Fond du Lac, Wisconsin . . . . o o . . .Booth 5
Childcraft, Quarrie Corporation, Chicago, Illinois- -Booth 7
Coca Cola Company, Atlanta, Georgia - - - - - - - - - - . .Booth 32
Copperweld Steel Company

Mt. Vernon, New York . . - - - - . - - . . - - . - . - . - - .Booth 21
Everlast Sporting Goods Manufacturing Co.

New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..’ . . . . . . . . . . .Booth 27
Game-Time, Litchfield, Michigan . - - - . . - - . . . - . . .Booth 15
Hillerich and Bradsby, Louisville, Kentucky . . . . . .Booth 28

Loren Murchison and Co. Newark, New Jersey. o - .Booth 19

MacGregor Goldsmith, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio. - - - .Booth 23
Magnus Brush and Craft Materials

New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Booth 4
Paddle Tennis Co., Inc., New York City - . - - - - - . .Booth 20
Peda Spray Co., Inc., New York City . . . . . . . . . . . .Booth 22
Pennsylvania Rubber Company

Jeannette, Pennsylvania - . - - . - - . - - . - - - - - - - --Booth 6
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N. Y. . . . .Booth 16
J. E. Porter Company, Ottawa, Illinois . - o - o - . - - . .Booth 18
Rawlings Manufacturing Company

St, Louis, Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Booth 17
Universal Handicrafts Service, Inc.

New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I . . . . . . . . .Booths 25, 26

W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation
Los Angeles, California and Chicago, Illinois. -Booth 29

Weaver-Wintark Sales Company
Shamokin, Pennsylvania - . . . . - o - - - o - o o . . o o . .Booth 9

0. S. Wilkinson Company, Washington, D. C.. - - .Booth 3

Wilson Sporting Goods Company
Chicago, Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Booth 24

321

Those participating in the combined book exhibit
include the Association Press, C. C. Birchard and
Company‘, Botanic Publishing Company, Bruce
Publishing Company, Henry Holt and Company,

McGraw Hill, Simon and Schuster, Inc., Uni—
versity of Chicago Press, and the Womans Press.

Industrial Recreation

The Industrial Recreation Conference, held in
conjunction with the National Recreation Con-
gress, is scheduled to begin Monday morning,
October I 3, and will continue through Tuesday,
although many delegates may wish to stay for some
of the remaining general Congress sessions which
will be of interest to them.

Topics for discussion include: industrial recrea—
tion and community relations, budgeting and rec—
ord keeping, activities for women and girls, special
activities, management and union cooperation,
planning recreation for supervisors and executives.

Community Contact?

OR THE BENEFIT of new directors who have
F joined our staff during the past two weeks, the
following is a review of the way community con-
tacts can best be made by each playground director :

Community contacts are highly important in the
conduct of a successful recreation program, for it
is through this medium that the playground pro-

gram becomes known throughout the entire neigh-
borhood.

Directors should contact the principals and
classroom teachers of neighborhood schools, both
public and private.

It is advisable for a director, with the permis-
sion of the principal, to go right into a classroom
and tell the children about the many activities
planned for them. This will bring results in in-
creased participation for both regular and special
events. Principals and teachers are concerned with
the recreational life of their pupils and are anxious
to cooperate with the director.

With the emphasis today upon special youth
projects, all agencies are eager to cooperate with
this department in planned activities for young peo-
ple. Describe your program in detail to Parent-
Teachers Associations, coordinating councils, ser-
vice clubs, churches and leaders of private group

322

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

In addition there will be section meetings on vari-
ous topics, and a round table discussion will be
held on Tuesday afternoon pertaining to current
problems on principles, programs, techniques, fa-
cilities, values, leadership and other Special ques-
tions. Program participants in the various indus-
trial recreation sections include representatives
from: Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corpora-
tion, General Electric Company, Macy’s, Sun Oil
Company, American Cyanamid — Calco Chemical
Division, Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company,
Ford Motor Company, Briggs Manufacturing
Company, UAW-CIO Recreation Department,
Joanna Foundation, Metropolitan Life Insurance

Company, United Air Lines, American Telephone
and Telegraph Company, Glenn L. 'Martin Coin-
pany, and the Scovill Manufacturing Company.

As usual, proceedings of the entire Congress will
be compiled and can be ordered at the Congress.

work agencies, such as the Y.W.C.A. and Y.M.
C.A., and Boy and Girl Scouts, Camp Fire, Wood-
craft Rangers, settlements, and the like.

Take every opportunity to discuss the program
offered with the parents of the children who
frequent the neighborhood playground. In fact,
parents are greatly concerned with the activity
program and with its leadership.

The program, once planned, should be carried
through. Only by consistently following the sched-
uled activities will the people of the community
have faith in our leadership.

Community contacts should be made durin
hours when activities are at a low ebb on th
playground. Often the hour from I to 2 P.M. i
good since many adult activities take place in th
morning, and the children’s activities do not begi
until later in the afternoon.

It is not good practice for a director to absen
himself too frequently from the ground. It is es
sential for directors to call the central office befor
leaving to make contacts. District directors shoul
also be notified.

 

*LosAngeles Recreation Department W‘eekly Bulletin, October 1
1946.

RECREATIO

Recreation
County-wide*

OR MANY YEARS there has been considerable
F talk concerning recreation in Wicomico

County. Now for the first time, this county is
prepared to match action against words.

Out of a sincere desire to pay tribute to its
young men and Young women who had so unself—
ishly answered their country’s call in time of need,
the people of Wicomico County chose to commemo-
rate their deeds with. a living memorial—a me-
morial that would not only pay tribute to those
who left our midst, but a memorial that would
serve also to improve immeasurably its present
generation and generations to follow, a stirring
exemplification of the ideals for which we were
fighting. Our memorial was to take the form of a
recreational facility second to none: a facility that
would answer the recreational needs and desires
of the people of Wicomico County, both young
and old.

In 1944 a Memorial Committee was organized
with a prominent local business man as its head.
The Committee’s first appeal for funds was made
a year later. What was the county’s response?
More than $1,750,000 was contributed! A re-
sponse which clearly demonstrated that the people
of Wicomico County were determined to erect a
memorial of which they could long be proud.

Last spring the first step toward the realization
of this broad program was taken by the erection
'of a stadium. Other facilities will be added from
year to year—including gymnasium, tennis courts,
swimming pool, as the price of construction ma-
erial comes down and such materials become
Evailable. ,

The question might justly be asked: Does the
erection of such facilities constitute the prime ob-
,jective of our memorial program? To this my
answer would be “no.” Because, thanks to the
oresight of the people of this county, there has
emerged the realization that such facilities alone
would not constitute a living memorial, unless an
organized supervised program of recreation was

; frojected into its inner being.

\

 

A sp_ecch_delivered by John Fern, Director of Recreation of the
1 Wicomico County Commission, at the recent Maryland Con-
‘ ference of Socral Welfare.

"OCTOBER 1947
I

With such a realization Came many long hours
of hard work, study and research. Every effort
was expended to insure the development of a well-—
founded county program of recreation. . . . As a'
result, in August 1945, 18 persons were appointed
by the W icomico County Commissioners to form
what is now known as the Wicomico County War
Memorial Recreation Commission; Members of
this Commission are selected from various sections
of the county. At the present time, Showard T.
Culver of Hebron, Maryland, a small rural com-
munity of 700 people, is serving as chairman of the
Commission. Terms of office for the first year
were one, two and three years in length. All suc-
ceeding appointments are for three years, enabling
the Commission to have a majority of experienced

members at all times.

Subcommittees

For most efficient operation, the Commission is
divided into a series of subcommittees, such as
summer playground committee, athletic committee,
music and arts committee, special activities com-
mittee, stadium committee and program growth
and development committee.

The Commission is charged with the responsi-
bility for assisting communities throughout the
county in meeting the recreational needs of their
reSpective localities. The program of the Commis-
sion does not concern itself with any special age
group, but rather it is attempting to meet the lei—
sure time problems of small children, of adolescent
boys and girls, of young men and women and of
adult men and women. It must concern itself with
all these age groups if it is to meet its responsi-
bility. In addition to age and sex groups, every
effort is being made to serve religious and racial
groups throughout the county.

As so often though, the use of leisure time is not
merely the problem of large metropolitan cities; it
is not only a problem of finding safe places for 9
children to play, or something for the factory
worker to do; it is not simply the concern of any
one locality or any one group but rather the use
of leisure time. Recreation is the concern of all
peoples of all communities, whether they be large
cities, small towns or rural districts. Such a phi-
losophy represents a great challenge—one which
our Commission hopes to meet by exerting its
efforts along the following lines:

I. To discover through research the actual rec-
reational needs and desires of the people of
the county. ‘ '

2. To assist all communities in developing a
recreation pr0gram to meet these needs.

323

3. To aid in coordinating and correlating the
efforts of all community service agencies,
churches and schools in the field of recrea-—
tion, thus eliminating the present duplication
of services and the waste of both volunteer
and professional leadership.

4. To supplement, rather than replace, existing
programs with additional recreation activities
which are needed and desired.

5. To assist as far as possible existing recrea-
tion activities in the county, strengthening
and enriching their programs.

6. To make available to all organizations, all
people, the services of the department in help-
ing to plan or initiate any type of recrea-
tional activity, whether it be a private birth-
day party in the home, a P.T.A. Easter pro-
gram, a church picnic or a city baseball
league.

Such represents the foundation upon which we
hope to develop a well-rounded county program of
recreation. It is well for an organization to adopt
for itself a standard of ideals—yet such a code is
worthless unless an honest effort is made to realize
these objectives. A

 

Courtesy Recreation C ommission, Montclai'r, N. J.

324

Accomplishments

It may prove interesting to those present to re-
port briefly on the efforts made by the Commission
during its first eight months of operation towards
realizing its aforementioned purposes.

As was stated, our first concern was in discov-
ering the types of recreation in which our people
were most interested. As a result, more than 3,000
school—age youngsters, both colored and white,
were interviewed last fall as to their leisure time
interests. Results of this survey now form the basis
for the development of our young people’s program.

Personal invitations have been sent to thousands
of boys and girls throughout the county extending
them the opportunity to participate in the many
activities that the Commission has organized as a
result of its survey. Boys and girls who,indicated
an interest in basketball, tennis, golf, archery,
swimming and other activities are being given the
opportunity on an organized basis for the first time.
A tremendous task—but one that is paying tre-
mendous dividends. .

As a further aid in formulating the county pro-
gram, a Junior Recreation Council was organized
and meetings are being held concerning Specific
teen-age activities which might be initiated by the
Commission.

Our second concern was to establish some '
medium through which we could coordinate and
correlate the efforts of existing social agencies,
churches and schools in the field of recreation.
After considerable study, an Advisory Council I
on Recreation was organized, comprised of the
professional'directors of numerous social agen- '
cies and churches. The Council meets monthly
to discuss practical ways and means of coor-
dinating their respective programs—thus assur-
ing the county of deriving the most possible
value from those agencies represented. Results
to date are most gratifying! This group, with
the cooperation of our county and state boards
of education, was instrumental in having a
week’s training institute in recreational leader-
ship conducted in Salisbury. More than 37 or-
ganizations were represented with a course en—
rollment well over 200. Our first county-wide
hobby show, sponsored by the Girl Scouts in
cooperation with the Council, was a tremendous
success. More than 100 different hobbies were
on display from people residing in 12 different
towns throughout the county. This summer, an
extensive “learn-to—swim” campaign has been
launched in cooperation with the local chapter of
the American Red Cross. '

RECREATION

Many more similar experiences of cooperative
action might well be cited if time would permit.

Our next interest lies in making a sincere effort
to supplement, rather than replace, existing pro-
grams with additional recreation opportunities
which are both needed and desired. When our
program was initiated last fall, interest ran high in
teen-age dances. It appeared to be a wonderful op-
portunity for the Commission to begin its program
with a bang. However, through the Advisory
Council, we learned that four churches were plan-
ning to conduct such a program through the week
end periods. Yes, it was a wonderful opportunity,
but we felt the need was being met, and instead of
competing with the churches in this endeavor, we
learned that teen-age boys and girls were also
interested in basketball. No need to explain further
what we did. Three church basketball leagues
were conducted, serving 12 churches and reaching
nearly 300 boys and girls.

A few more examples of such supplemental ac-
tivities might be cited, such as the operation of II
summer playgrounds this summer (previously
there were none), church music program, element-
ary school basketball league, civic club volleyball
league, tennis tournament, golf tournament, indus-
trial softball league, and so on.

Concerning what we feel as our responsibility to
assist existing community programs, we might
cite briefiy in passing several eXperiences :

I. Assisting the churches with various youth

institutes

2. Organizing and locating facilities for the civic
club volleyball and softball leagues, indus-
trial leagues, etc.

3. Conducting song fests for children’s programs
sponsored by local civic clubs

4. Assisting the County Board of Education
with its interscholastic sports programs by
providing officials for soccer, fieldball, base-
ball and similar leagues

5. Assisting the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts
with courts of honor and courts of awards,
surveys, etc.

6. With respect to our sixth objective—in mak-
ing available the services of the department
to all people of the county—there’s little
need to comment further. I’m sure you all
are aware of the services of such a depart-
ment in providing literature, picnic kits, plan-
ning parties and the like. Requests for such
services are steadily mounting.

7. Regarding our last purpose, namely, to assist
communities in developing a recreation pro-
gram of their own designed to meet their

OCTOBER 1947

local needs and desires, we could go on in-
definitely. However, I’ll take only a moment
or two to explain briefly our approach to this
problem.

It is rather difficult to operate a program of any
type in a community 20, 30 or 40 miles from a
central office, unless one has a well—established or-
ganization in that town through which to function.
As an approach to this problem, we have been
conducting a rather interesting experiment. We
have gone into two typical rural towns and or-
ganized what we call Community Recreation As-
sociations. Once again, 'these associations are
comprised of representatives from each of the local
programs.

Through this body our Commission works——
suggesting ways and means of developing a local
recreation program, facilities needed and so forth.

Results of our experiment: one community has
done a fair job; the other has done outstanding
work. In Hebron, Maryland,'a town of 750 peo-
ple, truly remarkable progress has been accom-
plished in less than eight months. The group pro-
cured the use of an old warehouse and with young
and old alike rolling up their sleeves have trans-
formed that drab storage facility into a charming
community hall. The Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, 4-H
Club, teen-agers, need worry no longer for a place
to meet. The Homemakers’ Club is no longer con-
cerned where to hold its training courses, card‘
parties or other entertainments.

The auditorium in the local school, with the C0-
0peration of the County Board of’ Education and
Recreation Commission, was fitted pr0perly so
that it can now be used as a gymnasium for bas-
ketball games, and so forth.

Two weeks ago the association conducted its
first community barn dance. Over 300 people were
in attendance.

Yes, we’re learning very definitely that recrea-
tion is‘the concern of all people, of all communi-
ties, regardless of size.

Finances
Before closing I’d like to take just a moment

' more to touch upon one other phase of our pro-

gram in which I’m sure you’re all interested——
finances.

The budget of the Commission for its first year
of operation is $15,775.95. Such revenue is de-
rived from the following sources:

Local Community Fund . . . . . . . . . . ..$10,375.95
Wicomioo County Commissioners. . .. 3,900.00
Rental of Stadium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,500.00

$15,775.95

325

Funds received from the County Commisioners
are based on $.0I on the annual county tax rate
and for this first year, amounted to $4,400.00.
Five hundred dollars were retained by the Board
in order to amortize expense already incurred by
the county in providing sewerage, etc., at Me-
morial Field.

It is only fitting, at this time, to pay tribute to
the Wicomico County Board of Commissioners
for the vital role which they have played in making
possible such a far reaching program.

The ground work, the foundation for a truly
outstanding recreational program is being formu-
lated for Wicomico County. Not a temporary

type of program, but a program that will earn
itself a permanent, necessary and vital place among
the present phases of our community life.

Through such determination, hard work, study
and initiative, similar opportunities for wholesome
recreation may'and can be extended to every com-
munity in the state—regardless of size.

Here lies a challenge which already has been too
long unanswered. A challenge to every county in
the state—yes, a challenge to the State of Mary-
land—to give every person, regardless of race,
or creed an opportunity to receive guidance and
training in the art of leisure time living.

Lest we forget—great thoughts reduced to prac—
tice become great deeds. Here lies your challenge.

 

 

Children First . . .

AST SUMMER I visited four amusement places in
L Scandinavia: Liseberg in Gothenburg, Folkets
Park in Malmo, Grona Lund in Stockholm and
Tivoli in Copenhagen. For contrast I spent an
evening at Coney Island upon my return the last
week in July.

The foreign recreation parks lacked the garish-
ness of Coney Island even though there are hot-
dog stands, merry-go-rounds, fun houses and side
shows. Swedish price and licensing controls have
much to do with the lack of the blatant, blaring com-
mercialism of the crowded, unlovely booths along
the hot Coney concrete, but I believe that the set-
tings with trees and flowers and green lawns
absorb the noises and sights which no absorption
at Coney Island allows to become discordant.
These recreation parks are parks in every sense of
the word, with beautiful, birch-lined promenade
paths, patches of tulips and other flowers, green
lawns, and, wonderfully colored by electric flood-
lighting effects, murmuring fountains and life-like
statues. There seemed always to be concerts, free
and well attended, and music in the restaurants.

Only at Grona Lund where there are fewer
trees and lawn and at Copenhagen, which has not
yet recovered from the effects of the war, does any
discordancy peek through.

But I am unfair to the Danes and their Tivoli.
I liked too well Folkets Park in Malmo with its
two dance halls, one in which the youth-shunned
Swedish waltzes, schottisches, polkas and hambos
drew full houses and the other where youth danced
the hours away to fox trot and rhumba music
played in the American jive manner. I enjoyed,
too, the ballet at its theater.

Because there was a crowd, I stopped in front of

326

a theater“ The stage rose at the bottom of a gentle
slope and a number of benches faced the stage
inside a fence. Around this fence children had
gathered and we stood up beyond them with an
open space between that grew constantly less as
more children slipped past us and forward. Then
I saw a thing that I have seen no other place in
Europe or America, an amazing thing to occur in a
country so opposed to regimentation, but a most
admirable piece of fair play.

Walking about among the children, pushing a
short child forward, pulling a tall child back of
shorter ones, two old men dressed in uniform caps
and long Split—tailed coats with shiny brass buttons
worked with the patience of Job. At what? Ar-
ranging the children according to heights so that
all might have a chance to see the show.

I remembered parades in Seattle where six-year-
olds were unable to get through the crowd of
thirty-year adults who lined the curb. I recalled
with a shudder the afternoon I visited a park in
another western city and stopped at the edge of a
crowd to see performing seals, to be distracted by
the sight of an elderly woman using a switch to
drive her six-year-old charge through the crowd.

Here, in Copenhagen, in front of the children’s

.theater, the children came first in a patient, kindly

enforcement so that the smallest and the shortest
had no taller one in front to mar his ‘view.

Both Folkets Park in Malmo and Liseberg in
Gothenburg had separate children’s theaters built
on this same principle of a stage facing an open
space. On the day I sailed there was a perform-
ance at the latter, for children especially: a show
put on for them costing only the price of the gen-
eral admission to the park which teemed with other
opportunities for juvenile recreation.

—Ivan B. O’Lcme, Seattle, Washington

RECREATION

 

manually/3.771 '

 

“Our Share of Joy"

 

By WILLIAM M. SMITH, JR.
Department of Rural Economics and Sociology
University of Arkansas
FayeHeville. Arkansas

“We never complain of care or sorrow

For always we have our share of joy . . .” '

0 SING Illinois Rural Youth, some nine thou-
S sand strong. And if you think that they do not

mean what they are singing, just take a look
at them with us for a few minutes. First organized
some I3 years ago in Effmgham County, Rural
Youth groups have spread across the state so that
at latest count they add up to'98 organizations in
86 counties. They claim to have more members
than any other older youth group sponsored by the
Agricultural Extension Service in the United
States. Each year Indiana and Illinois leaders care—
fully check the count because the Hoosiers are not
far behind.

But What are these young folks doing? And

what accounts for their growth and continued de- .

velopment—even through the war years? And who
belongs to these organizations? Suppose we answer
the last question first.

In membership requirements as in all other reg-
ulations Rural Youthersmake their own rules. So
each group or each county has its own definition
of who may or may not belong. In general those
young people may join who are out of high school,
who are unmarried, who have lived on a farm or
are interested in agriculture, and who are willing
to participate actively in the group gatherings. One
county puts it this way: “Once you’re in, you’re
in ’til you’re married.”

Although sponsored cooperatively by the Ex—
tension'Service and the Illinois Agricultural Asso-
ciation, the groups do not limit their membership
in any way to families who are affiliated with par-
ticular adult organizations. Once in a while a
group has a membership campaign, but more often
it follows a more sound procedure for getting
and keeping members. An organization begins with
a relatively small number of interested young folks
who feel the need of such a group and who are
ready to work for one. Building and carrying’ out

' OCTOBER 1947

their own program, they gradually invite friends
and acquaintances Who hear of Rural Youth and
its activities. This “grapevine” method of building I
membership tends to place an emphasis on develop—
ment of the individuals and the group rather than
on long membership rolls.

Most of the groups meet regularly once a month.
But having accepted that statement, the reader
would need to talk with only a few Rural Youthers
to discover that there are a multitude of reasons
for holding various kinds of “special meetings.”
Generally, their program may be considered under
one of three headings: study, sociability, service.
Varying proportions of these make up the major
activities at either regular or special meetings. If
you ask a member why he or she belongs to Rural
Youth you’ll probably get four answers: to have
fun; to get acquainted; to go places; to learn

something. And all four, of these add up to “our
share of joy.”

Programs

There is no state-wide or pre-cooked program
which can be followed by the individual groups
month by month. Every six months the officers
meet with a Rural Youth specialist from the Uni—
versity of Illinois and with the farm and home
adviser of their county to evaluate programs just
completed, to consider needs and interests of the
group, and to outline programs for the ensuing
months. In a county like McHenry where there
are eight Rural Youth groups this semi-annual
program planning session is a sizable gathering.

From county to county the specific programs
vary with the interests and experience of local
membership and leadership. Although they really
learn through all of their activities, Rural Youthers
label only the more less formal part of their pro—
gram “educational.” A list of topics considered in
the course of a year would fill this page.

Last January, at one of their annual state-wide
gatherings, Rural Youth Day at Farm and Home
Week, 450 members discussed “How to Choose
and Win a Mate.” From the opening talk by Dr.
Katherine Whiteside Taylor, through the small
group discussions, to the very end of the summary
panel, interest was high. Rural Youthers selected
the topic; Rural Youthers led the discussions; the
same Rural Youthers returned to their own groups
with new “thunder” for coming meetings.

Related to this subject also are the many meet-
ings devoted to discussions of personality develop-
ment. On this score Rural Youthers are quite
practical. They know that personality does not
grow out of book reading. They participate in a

327

 

Courtesy Board of Education, Detroit, Michigan

varied program which provides for all kinds of
group interaction. When they do sit down to con-
sider the question it is likely that the theme of the
meeting will be stated in such terms as: modern
manners, “things I wish others wouldn’t do,” or
dating etiquette. Skits and demonstrations are
popular methods of presenting such subjects.

A third list of topics might be made under the
heading of vocational exploration. Edgar County
with one of the inost ambitious programs in the
state last year held a series of six meetings deal-
ing with the theme, My Farm Home. Under this
heading they discussed home beautification, farm-
stead planning, new building materials, and other
interesting subjects. The topic of conversation is
often considered. Sometimes a skit is used to
present ideas about conservation. Often slides,
movies, or chalk talks are featured. In a number
of counties guest speakers representing various
occupations have appeared before the Rural Youth

group. The problem of father-son partnerships in
farming is often discussed.

A fourth list could be made of meetings de-
voted to civic responsibility. Tours through the
county court house, talks by county or state of-
hcials, training in parliamentary procedure are in-
cluded here. “Know Your County” has been the
theme for one meeting and for a series of meetings
across the state. Rural Youthers are often surs
prised to discover that history was made so near
home. During the summer bus loads of young
folks go in all directions across the Prairie State,

1

328

visiting points of historical inter—
est, looking at Chicago, taking in a
ball game or the Muny opera at
St. Louis, or just visiting another

county for a picnic or sports fes—
tival.

“Just for Fun”

Mentioning traveling brings us
to the second major category of
Rural Youth activities— sociabil-
ity. Everything that Rural Youth-
ers do seems to be fun. But'some
events are “just for fun.” Regular
meetings are invariably spiced with
group singing, mixers, relays, and
other games, and folk and modern
dancing. Of course the calls and
figures are different in Jackson
County from anywhere else in the
state. And McDonough has its own
special do-si-do. But almost every group likes to
square dance and has records for dancing. Some of
the fellows can do a good job of calling, too.

These activities are so much fun at regular meet—
ings that innumerable in-between meetings have
to be scheduled for extra good times. Roller skat-
ing or ice skating parties are popular in the winter.
So are pound or box or pie socials. Prices paid

for “the” box reach fabulous sums at these aucn

tions. During the summer moonlight hikes, picnics,
sports festivals and camps are held. Most groups
have_a banquet once a year.

One of the most significant criteria of the value
of an organization is its relation to other organiza-
tions and its contribution to the community in
which it exists. An additional measure applicable
to a youth organization is the degree to which it
helps its members make a transference from the
group life of high school to participation in the
adult community. Against both of these yardsticks
Illinois Rural Youth measures well.

“Know Your Neighbor—Serve Your Commu-
nity” has been a state-wide slogan for two years.
Groups have discovered a thousand and one ways
to make these words effective. The concept of
neighbor is wisely broadened to include people of
other lands. Reports come in every month of in-
teresting talks made by visitors or recent immi-
grants from countries around the world. Return-
ing servicemen have contributed to this expanding
concept of neighbor.

Service to the local county or community takes
place in many ways. Providing leadership in social

RECREATION

 

 

recreation is a popular one. Knox County Rural
Youth have an enviable reputation in this field.
Last winter they had a standing engagement with
one of the Galesburg schools to teach square danc-
ing. At the local Y.M.C.A. or at high school
parties their services are in demand. Many groups
'assist with Farm and Home Bureau annual meet-
ings. The. Bond County group even serves the
lunch as its part in the annual gathering. Rural
Youth members pitch in to help with such com-
munity campaigns as a Red Cross or Community
Chest drive. '

They remember orphanage children with gifts
and programs. One-act plays, originally prepared
for a Rural Youth meeting, are taken from one
organization meeting to another. In time of a
crisis, such as the tornado which swept across
northern Illinois a couple of summers ago, Rural
Youth stands ready to help. The Bureau County
group traveled by truck from farm to farm picking
up debris and helping families whose homes had
been destroyed.

One of the most significant contributions which
Rural Youthers make to community life is their
leadership in other organizations. Many are active
4—H Club and church.workers. In one county the
Farm Bureau is headed by a former Rural Youther
who handles business with skill born of practice.
In many instances former or present Rural Youth

members are on the board of directors of their_

county Farm Bureau. The Home Bureau mem-
bership rolls include many an ex—Rural Youther.
St. Clair County Rural Youthers have made good
Grange ofiicers and are active in promoting the
work of that organization when given an oppor-
tunity.

Study, sociability, service—these terms describe
phases of the Illinois Rural Youth program. But
to account for the success of this work with young
people we must look deeper than the program. To
us the following appear to be among the chief
reasons for the continued growth of these groups.

Of, By and For Youth

Rural Youth is of, by and for young people
themselves. Adults assist if and when requested.
Their part is best characterized as guidance, not
direction. Officers and committees elected or ap-
pointed by the groups plan the programs, see that
they are carried into action, and evaluate them.
This is as true in district or state activities as it is
in the county or community. Rural Youthers have
little patience with “warming over” programs sup-
plied from some office. Frequently they do request
and obtain materials or suggestions for particular

OCTOBER 1947
I

aSpects of their programs. But they are the ones
who have the ideas and therefore who do the work.
Incidentally, Rural Youth is the name which yodng
people selected to designate their organization
several years ago.

In the second place, Rural Youthers are treated
as adults, not as children. Only once in a while do
we hear of a group which has asked for privilege
without responsibility. Most often such a situation
is traceable to an adult who has not helped the
group develop leadership in gradual steps or who
has never trusted the young people to exercise any
initiative.

Training for leadership is a‘ continuous and
never—ending process. In each group committee
work and office-holding are jobs to be passed'from
one member to another. Membership rolls change
rapidly because young folks move from place to
place and they do get married. But this factor only
emphasizes the need for constant leadership
training.

District schools are held each Spring for officers
and“ local leaders. These are planned and con—
ducted by Rural Youth specialists from the Uni-
versity of Illinois and the Illinois Agricultural
Association. .Members themselves suggest what
should be emphasized in the meetings. Also on a -
district basis and providing training in group liv-
ing are several camp's. Camp Eastman on the Mis-
sissippi and Merom Institute in the Wabash valley
have for several years been the‘ sites of district
Rural Youth week end camps. Last summer an-
other was added at Shaw-waw-nas-see near Kan-
kakee.

Three state-wide events are held each year.
Besides affording the opportunity for renewing
acquaintances, they give local leaders a chance to
learn more about program methods and materials.
One is the Rural Youth section of the IAA an-
nual meeting. The second is Rural Youth Day at
Farm and Home Week at the University of Illi-
nois. The third is Rural Youth state camp at East
Bay. All of these are planned by committees
elected by Rural Youthers who attend the events.

Finally, throughout all of the Rural Youth work
runs the philosophy that growth of the individual
is more important than any program or project.
In fact, Rural Youth work in Illinois differs from,
traditional extension work in that no “projects”
are followed. From some states have appeared
lengthy check-lists whereby young people are sup-
posed to indicate their interests and from which
educational programs are derived. Such a deviCe
seldom reHects true interests of young people nor
affords a sound basis for program planning.' Many

829

times adults wish that the procedure of program
planning which Illinois Rural Youthers use could
be speeded up. But it is democratic. And when
they make the plan, theirs is the responsibility for
carrying it into action. Often those meetings last
until after midnight but real pride is evidenced
when an ofhcer can say afterwards, “It looks like
a good program we planned, doesn’t it?”

During the war Rural Youth organizations were
kept alive in many counties by the girls who were
working on farms and in ofiices and factories. Now
the prewar membership figure has been regained.
Graduates of the organization in several counties
are organizing young married couples’ groups to
continue their fellowship and to consider the many
problems relative to their new plans in their com—
munities.

During depression days of the thirties, out-of-
school youth were discussed as “problems” from
one end of the country to the other. Several states
did more than talk; they went into action. Ohio,
Indiana and Iowa were among the states which
made it possible for rural young people to build
their own organizations. Under dozens of differ—
ent names, kin-groups to Illinois Rural Youth were
organized.

Whether or not a depression or recession comes
again, members of these groups will be more ready
to face their problems, to make their own deci-

sions. Listen if you cross the Prairie State. You
may hear them singing:

“To useful living, proud and free,

We pledge our hearts, our loyalty.”

 

 

After School Program

(Conducted jointly .. by Peoria Public Schools
and . Playground and Recreation Board. 1946-

I947-)
Purpose: To provide a supervised program of
intra-mural sports and recreational activities to

meet the interests of boys and girls of the ele—
mentary school level.

Objectives: To encourage participation of boys
and girls in as many different activities as facilities
will allow for a minimum of four afternoons per
week and Saturday mornings.

Time: Week days from 3 :00 to 5:00 PZM. Sat—
urday mornings from 9:00 to II :30 A.M.

Special Note: School coaches are required to
follow above time schedule.

Program Possibilities for Fall Season (Septem-

ber I6 throughNovember 15)
Touch Football Captain Ball

Volley Ball Archery

Soccer Badminton

Speed Ball Deck Tennis
Hand Ball Field Hockey
Newcomb Box Hockey
Dodge Ball Field Day Tourney
Long Ball Relays

End Ball Rope Skipping

Kick Baseball Punch Ball

I. Intramural Program September lb Through
October l8 '

Explanation: During this period “group in-
struction” should be provided for boys and girls
in developing fundamental skills and the knowl-
edge of rules for the preservation of interest and
participation.

330

Competition should play a minor part during
the instruction period with the emphasis being
placed on enjoyment and fun for participants.

The “mass games” should include all age levels
with equal privileges and opportunities.

2. District Round Robin Tournament from October
I? Through November l5

Explanation: A definite schedule of school com—
petition will be worked out in each district to
climax the fall season.

Individual school recreation leaders should use
all boys and girls that are interested in participat-
ing in the district competition.

The time and place of scheduled games will be
worked out with the schools involved in each
district.

Procedure: Meetings will be held with school
coaches in each district. At this meeting coaches
will select a minimum of three activities for boys
and three activities for girls. Each coach shall then
promote these activities in their respective school
programs.

!

Definite “group instruction’ should be given
three afternoons per week for boys’ and at least
one afternoon per week for girls’ activities. Intra-
school games and contests are recommended if
suHicient participants are interested.

Beginning October 19th schools in each district
will be privileged to enter as many teams as have
been developed in a district round robin tourna-
ment to climax the fall season program.

RECREATION

Dads Lend a Hand

By MATT F. ANTONOVICH

Chappaqua Dads
Chappaqua. New York

UVENILE DELINQUENCY has never caused much
J trouble in Chappaqua, a quiet village 35 miles

north of New York City. But juvenile bore—
dom had come to be quite a real problem by the
fall of 1945, when I 3 young fathers in the com-
munity decided to do something about it, and or-
ganized as the Chappaqua Dads.

The boredom among teen-agers arose from the
fact that Chappaqua, which was founded in 1.730,
is still a “9 o’clock town,” even on Saturday night.
The village is not large enough to support a movie
or other commercial amusements, and not many
of the adolescents have access to cars with which
to drive to nearby larger towns.

Many were skeptical about the success which the

' Chappaqua Dads would have in capturing the chil-

dren’s interest. Other equally sincere groups had
tried to get a youth program started in the past,
but had found that doing something for young
folks was easy, but making them like it and sup-
port the program had somehow misfired.

The Dads were a nucleus from the town’s Fire
Auxiliary, which was disbanding after the war
emergency. They had found they could work well
together, and felt perhaps they could turn their
energy further toward community good by taking
a crack at the “youth problem.”

Fortified by knowledge of what hadn’t worked,
their first move was a session with the principal
of the Chappaqua public schools. He suggested

that alcommittee from the student government or- ’

ganization be consulted. If this was going to be
for the teen-agers, then let them “call the tune.”

The success of the entire program has stemmed
from that happy premise. At all functions a hand-
ful of the Dads are on hand, but stay very much
in the background—available for advice or arbi—
tration, but otherwise keeping pretty well clear of
organizing or directing or supervising.

Backbone of the program are the “open house’.’
nights held nearly every other Saturday at the high
school building. Boys and girls from the seventh

OCTOBER 1947

through the high school grades are the guests of
the Dads and are free to take part in shuffleboard,
ping-pong, basketball, volley ball, dancing and
other diversions. Most popular, however, are rol-
ler skating and movies. Regular rink skates were
purchased by the Dads after a long wait on a list
of priority purchasers. They were financed finally
by the town’s Recreation Commission, and 10 cents
an hour is charged until the cost of the skates shall
be amortized. No charge is made for the movies
as the picture rental is underwritten by the Dads.

Several Dads experienced in boxing have held
weekly classes in that sport, as boxing is not
taught in the school physical education classes.

Active teen-agers become pretty thirsty and
hungry, so refreshments consisting of soft drinks,
potato chips, crackers and cookies are served free
at each open house.

Participation Report

During the past year an average turnout of 175
young pe0ple has been maintained, a group of
commendable size in this small village. Each year,
also,,the Dads have taken the high school graduat-
ing class on a day’s outing at the beach.

One of the most successful affairs was a “Victory
Dinner” for the 1945 high school football team,
champions of its division. The American Legion
was co-sponsor. Since then the high school has
held a sports night for the athletes, their parents
and friends and will continue this feature yearly.

During the first year when the program was on
trial, the entire expense was borne by the Dads
except for a small profit from the Victory dinner.
In the second year, however, an expanded pro-
gram made it_ necessary to seek support from the
community. The Dads held a “low—pressure”
financial drive and adequate funds were quickly
raised.

The town of Mt. Kisco, adjacent to Chappaqua,
has a group of Dads who will try to duplicate what
the Chappaqua Dads have accomplished. Any com-
munity can do likewise, as long as there are
enough adults willing to lend time and counsel to
the youth of today. '

 

 

“Play is one of the most important spiritual
forces in the world. Bottle up the play life of boys
and girls, or let it be perverted to evil ends, and
we have hurt their characters beyond any .power

of preaching to undo the wrong.”—Harry Emer—
son Fosdick.

331

Recreation Travels

the Airwaves

HIS RADIO PROGRAM was presented on March

7, 1947 over Station KVVHK by the Recrea-

tion Commission in Hutchinson, Kansas, bring-
ing to the public the story of the city’s recreation
program. It is a noteworthy example of a local
public relations achievement.

Mra Nichols: Thank you, Mr. Conklin, and good
afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is a real
pleasure for us to be able to give you a few high-
lights on the future Hutchinson all-city, all-age
recreation program. First I would like to explain
briefly how this program came into existence.

In 1945 Kansas legislators passed legislation al-
lowing certain cities or school districts to operate
a system of public recreation and playgrounds,
acquire equipment and maintain land, buildings, or
other recreational facilities, employ a superintend-
ent of recreation and assistants, vote and expend
funds for the operation of such a system.

In February 1946 interested groups-in Hutch-
inson met the necessary requirements and placed a
proposed tax levy of one mill before the voters of
the city. It was accepted by a good majority and
the money, approximately $30,000 to be raised an-
nually, was placed at the disposal of the Hutch-
inson Recreation Commission for the organiza—
tion, supervision and administration of the city-
wide recreation program.

Mrs. Pallister: Mr. Nichols, you speak of the
Hutchinson Recreation Commission. Just what is
that group and what is its function?

Mr. Nichols: Thank you, Mrs. Pallister, for your
question. Briefly, the state law that makes provi-
sion for the tax levy also prbvides for an admin—
istrative group to select a superintendent of recre—
ation and his assistants, administer the budget, and
to act as a policy-making group for the city-wide
recreation program. The recreation commission in
Hutchinson was appointed by the Board of Educa-
tion. We have live members and our regular meet—
ings are held on the second Monday of every
month.

Mrs. Pallister: Who are the members of your
recreation commission, Mr. Nichols?

332

Mr. Nichols: The five members of our commis—
sion, Mrs. Pallister, are Mrs. Clyde Dillon, Mrs.
Herald Legg, Mr. Otto Zahn, Mr. J. F. Boyer—
smith and myself. Mr. Boyersmith is the chairman
and as previously stated I am the vice—chairman.
By law, Mr. Paul Lewellyn, business manager of
the Board of Education, is the ex—oflicio treasurer
of our commission and the Board of Education has
designated Mr. Lewellyn as our commission’s sec-
retary.

Mrs. Pallister: Thank you, Mr. Nichols. I have
been interested in community recreation for a num-
ber of years and I would like to know exactly what
you plan in Hutchinson in the way of an all-city,
all-age program.

Mr. Nichols: That question, I will turn over to '
Mr. Charles Kremenak, our superintendent of rec-
reation, whom the Hutchinson Recreation Com—
mission has secured to direct our program.

Mr. Kremenak, what would you say to Mrs.
Pallister’s question?

Mr. Kremenak: In a very general way, Mrs. Pal—
lister, we hope that our city-wide recreation pro-
gram when completely developed will include I6
areas. For example we plan:

1. Arts and crafts and social recreation for all ages
Supervised dancing

Recreational dramatics and music

Playground supervision

Preschool age playground programs

Recreational leadership training and ‘special
activity programs

7. Leadership for special programs

8. Party and picnic kit service

9919950

A program of public recreation must serve all.
Its program must include children of all ages,
youth in and out of school, and adults of both sexes.

Father Wilcox: Mr. Nichols, just what is the
necessity of setting up such a program? Aren’t
there enough school, church, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, Y.M.C.A. and other programs in this com-
munity to provide what the commission is plan-
ning to provide?

Mr. Nichols: Good recreation is a long term plan—
ning project. Once started it never ends. It begins
with the very small youngster and continues
through his entire life. Each organization, the
school, and church, and all private youth organi—
zations have their part in this life’s span. If all

. churches, all Scout groups, all Y.M.C.A.’s had

adequate money, time, facilities and trained per-
sonnel, they could undoubtedly care for most of the
leisure time hours of everyone. Unfortunately this

RECREATION

 

ideal is not a reality. Therefore a program for all
of the people logically Should be supported by the
people themselves, in other words, by taxation. In
this way additional funds are available for all-city,
all-age varied activity programs.

Also, if a program is specifically for one pur-
pose, for recreation, specialists may be employed
and all efforts may be directed into this one chan-
nel. Then, a public agency, administrated by pub-
lic funds for the entire public. is able to assist in
the coordination of all other existing institutions.
We hope to work with and through all of these
various agencies. If the activities or facilities of
any group are not being utilized to their utmost we
hope to be able to send groups and clubs to them
to take part in their programs. The plan to co—

ordinate the efforts of all, to eliminate-duplication '

of programs and to see that each and every group
and existing institution ‘is used to as nearly maxi-
mum capacity as possible.

Father Wilcox: How will this plan reach those
who are untouched by existing institutions? Can
you successfully compete with pool halls, penny
arcades and beer halls with regard to youth who
look for their recreation in such places today?

Mr. Nichols: Yes, but not without the coopera-
tion of parents. Present patronizers of unsuper-
vised recreation may not be “weened away” from
these places, but youngsters just coming to ado-
lescence will not seek such commercial recreation
if well-integrated programs of recreation are pro-
vided and in time become a tradition in this com-
munity. Note the growth in number of teams in
basketball, baseball, and softball in Y.M.C.A._-

church leagues.

Father Wilcox: Youth is so changeable in what it
wants. How will you attempt to meet these chang-
ing needs or are you going to give youth what you
think they need?

.Mr. Nichols: The desire for many and for varied
experiences is natural. Particularly in this age
group. We will do our best to strike a happy
medium. Frequent surveys will be conducted and
youth recreation councils will be organized to meet
at regular times with the recreation superintendent.

If at any time a group of young people desires to.

form a club or a special group, Mr. Kremenak will
be glad to meet with them, to help them organize
and to assist them in securing leadership for their
activity.

Father Wilcox: Is this program solely for youth
or will some of the oldsters who are just as hungry
for clean and reasonable recreation be included?

OCTOBER 1947

You know, a lot of us- grew up during a period'
when work was the 'greatest virtue. We have an
unfulfilled desire to play. Are we going to get a
chance in this program?

Mr. Kremc-nale: I am so happy you asked that
question, Father Wilcox. Many pe0ple have the
idea that our program is for youth alone and that
we are merely another agency bidding for the time
of the youth of our city. Our program is for every
citizen of Hutchinson. Activities for the preschool
age, for the out-of-school youth, for the young
married couples, and especially for adults. These,
programs will include family nights, neighborhood
get-togethers, and hobby clubs and other activities.
We need to know each other better than we do.
Friendships are most easily made in playing to-
gether. Much of the nervous tension in the world
today results from our thinking that play is “kid
stuff.” In our complex civilization of today play,
in its many varied forms, is a necessity for the
mental health of adults. Four necessities of a full
life are love, worship, work and play—and play is
as necessary in the proper development of the
well—rounded life as any of the four.

Father l/Vilcox: When conversation drifts around
to recreation, the question is often asked, why is it
that so many schools and churches have facilities
that are not fully utilized every night of the week?
Can your commission do anything about this? '

Mr. Nichols: In the vernacular, Father Wilcox,
what you have just mentioned is “right up our
alley.” we have set aside approximately one-half
of our budget for leadership. This leadership will
be- used to assist with programs in the churches; in
the schools, and in public and private halls. In this
way we will be able to spread the money over a
much wider area. We will be able to train volun-
teer leaders, furnish supplies, materials and a mini-
mum of equipment to utilize the exact facilities
you mentioned.

Mrs. Pallister: I’d like to inject a question here.
Leadership and training of leadership have been
mentioned as Well as the use of school and church
facilities. Father Wilcox has asked where the
churches fit into the program. I am sure all PTA
groups in the city would like to know if they will
be needed and what they might do to assist in the
program.

Mr. Kremenah: I know, Mrs. Pallister, that you
represent the thinking of all PTA groups in the
city. We will need your help as well as that of all
organized groups and clubs. We will need a large
number of volunteers to assist our paid leadership.

333

W’e will need sponsors and co—sponsors for clubs,
hobby groups and others. However, I believe that
PTA groups can be of the greatest assistance in
sponsoring our summer playground programs, the
majority of which will be held on school play-
grounds. Your recreation- committees can work
with us in setting up these programs, selecting

both paid and volunteer workers and securing
' some of the equipment necessary for an all-age
summer program of recreational activities on the
playgrounds. In many cases some of this planning
has already been done. I have met with the PTA
recreation committee of the North Side School to
plan their program and the PTA of Grandview to
assist with the program out there. Other PTA
groups in the city have made inquiry and have of-
fered their help in organizing programs in various
sections of the city.

Father Wilcox: It is the Opinion of many that
youth need work as much as play. Will there be
any such opportunities included in the program?

M r. Kremenale: We will encourage youth to assist
us in their program. We want them to serve as
leaders on the playgrounds and in other activities,
to assist in building equipment and to help in the
maintenance of buildings, and other facilities.

Father W ilcox: Won’t your program be further
competition for the churches, Boy Scouts, Y.M.
C.A., Girl Scouts and others in their demands on

the time of the youngsters? W ill they have time
to do their studies?

.Mr. Krcmenak: In answer to your first question,
Father Wilcox, definitely not. We hope to work
this program in cooperation with the churches,
Scouts, Y.M.C.A. and other organizations you
mentioned. Each of them has its function; we shall
try to serve those who are not at present being
reached by these programs. We further hope to be
able to assist the churches of the city and other
groups in their programs by furnishing leadership,
materials, and leadership training. I, too, have
heard some parents mention that their youngsters
were too busy. If we find that youth are being
adequately provided for and that their schedules
are not overcrowded, we will concentrate on ac—

tivities for other age groups during the school

334

year. Then, during the summer months when
school youth have more leisure time we will spe-
cialize in programs for them. We will not in any
way infringe upon your already existing programs.
We will assist and supplement programs for those
who are not now being reached.

Mr. Nichols: Thank you, Father Wilcox and
Mrs. Pallister, for being‘ with us today and for
bringing us some of the questions that we know
are being asked by the people of Hutchinson. The
Hutchinson Recreation Commission, Mr. Kre-
menak, superintendent of recreation and his as-
sistants are anxious to help the citizens of this city
develop the type of recreation activity program
they desire. It is not our program. It is your pro—
gram and we stand ready to help you in securing
your needs and desires.

We sincerely hope that. the activities and pro—
grams we sponsor and give assistance to will de-
velop better citizenship and will make for a fuller,
more wholesome and enjoyable life.

And remember: The community that plays to—
gether, stays together.

 

Fiorello H. LaGuardia

|882— I947

LWAYS FIORELLO H. LAGUARDIA was whole-
heartedly for parks, playgrounds, recreation.

He realized that community recreation costs money,
and he was ready to see the price paid. With great
satisfaction he saw what was accomplished in New

'York City and in New York State under the lead—

ership of Robert Moses.

At the National Recreation Congress he spoke
eloquently, giving solid backing to the work of the
National Recreation Association.

Dynamic, aggressive, challenging he threw his
whole weight behind building up more abundant

“living for the children and for all the members of

the families.

His father had been' a musician, and he himself
liked to lead an orchestra. He knew the value of
music and art in‘the life of people.

As chairman of the association of mayors of our
cities his influence carried great weight throughout
the nation. The people recognized his integrity, his
dedication to their interest, that he naturally
remained always one of them.-——H0wa.rd Brauclzer.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Center Pays Dividend;

By ELMER INGALLS

"The Bangor Daily News"
Bangor. Maine

RESQUE ISLE is a city of perhaps 10,000 resi-
dents and out of that number just two of its
juveniles have been committed to state insti—

tutions during the past year. That represents a
percentage so small as to be almost negligible.

It also represents an enviable condition well
worth explorationw—and the answer beyond a single
doubt lies in the eXpansive system of supervised
recreatiOn made available in Aroostook’s only city

for all its children.

Reverting for a moment to the city and its
10,000 population, it is rather startling to learn
from William V. Haskell, director of recreational
activities for the Presque Isle Community Asso-
ciation, that 56,237 youthful inhabitants partici—
pated in some sort of recreation during 1946. Even
more startling, and gratifying, is the fact that
20,967 who thronged the sites of supervised rec—
reation were “teen-agers.”

Briefly, the present setup of the recreational pro-
gram is this. Headquarters for all recreational
activities is the ornate building erected as a USO
center during World War II and purchased by the
city last September at a cost of $25,000.

The building, located on South Main Street
within easy walking distance from the business
section, boasts a large auditorium, a lounge and
snack bar, a stage for the presentation of amateur
theatricals, two music rooms at one end of the hall,
three offices at the other end, ample checkrooms
for public functions and a hobby room downstairs
currently in use as a darkroom for amateur pho—
tographers.

\Vhen the auditorium is in use, it is just that.
The hall has been used for banquets, dances and
meetings of a public nature. The last adult visitor
will hardly be out of the hall before a transforma-
tion occurs.

Out from their places beside the walls come
ping-pong tables, pool tables, a miniature bowling
alley, uke boxes, domino, checker and chess sets——
almost every kind of equipment one needs for

 

*Rellagintgf117by permission from The Bangor Daily News, March
, l .

OCTOBER 1947

amusement. The lounge serves, ordinarily, as a
spot where the more serious may read papers.
magazines and other literature made available to
the youths. A glance at the total attendance hgures

will give a rough idea as to whether the spot is a
popular one.

An outstanding feature of the recreation pro-
gram is Club 21. This organization is composed of
teen-agers, has already admitted 100 to member-
ship and is in the process of admitting many more.
It has its own officers, a bank balance—and more
constructive ideas than one could enumerate in a
ream of paper. Latest proposal is a mimeographed
newspaper and don’t be too surprised if it makes
its appearance shortly. These youths have a way
of getting things done.

All this talk has dealt largely with the commu-
nity recreational center—indoor recreation. Inci-
dentally, it might be as well to say at this point
that the adults make generous use of the facilities
of the place also. During one three-month period,
34 adult organizations held meetings there. On
the following month there were 21 groups of
“grown-ups” who made use of the facilities.

When the weather gets a little warmer, the
youngsters will be flocking outdoors—to the com-

Teen-age fun

’ _ r.  . ..

W N
H M”
c .-

     

   

Courtesy Bangor Daily N ews

335

munity swimming pool and playground named for
the Rev. Milton Grant, an ardent exponent of
recreation for children.

At the swimming pool, there are life guards in
attendance constantly, playground directors in
charge of the swings, slides and extensive equip—

ment available to the children. It is at this Spot '

that the Abnaki has been staging its annual Chil-
dren’s Day Observances, which draw thousands of
youngsters.

Located also at the playground is a softball dia-
mond, used during the day by the Youngsters,
after supper by a multitude of adult softball teams
playing a rigorous schedule.

During the winter months, Presque Isle’s
youths may participate in the activities at the Rec-
reation Center. They may avail themselves of fa-
cilities at Aroostook State Park, Echo Lake, or, if
the brisk outdoor air appeals, the Veterans of For-
eign Wars run a supervised skating rink on
Presque Isle stream. The Community Associa—
tion helps in the support of this project, the city
itself contributes and, most of all, the veterans
themselves pour plenty of time and money and
effort into keeping it going.

Most of this story has dealt with the youth and
their program. What of the adults? The recrea-
tional program takes in the projects sponsored by
the Presque Isle Community Association—and
they are almost too numerous to mention. Briefly,
a Little Theater group starts a series of offerings
this month; there is a photography club. A city

A Home for the Admiral. . . .

HE FOLLOWING LETTER was written' by a Na-
tional Recreation Association district field rep-
resentative to Dr. Hayes A. Richardson, Director
of Welfare, Kansas City, Missouri. The outcome
of the correspondence? Acceptance by the camp,
great rejoicing by the field representative’s neigh-

bors and happiness for the camp children and
Admiral Jackson. _

“I come bearing gifts.

“We have a burro (Rocky Mountain donkey or
jackass) named Admiral Jackson (photograph en-
closed) which I bought for my children a year ago
when we moved here. It is necessary that we dis-
pose of him because we are going away for awhile
and because we do not have a proper place to keep
him now. It occurred to me that rather than sell
him to someone, it would be a good idea to offer
him to the recreation department for the children
who go to your camp. I am sure that he would be

336

bowling league has just completed its schedule.
There is adult competition in softball.

In short, the city of Presque Isle offers its
youths and adults almost any kind of recreation
desired—so long as it’s clean and wholesome.

Fine City Spirit

Who is responsible for all these advantages?
Every taxpayer who turns in a nickel tax and
every citizen who gives even so much as a, dime to
the Community Chest. The city purchased the -
building, helps towards its support. The Presque
Isle Community Association sponsors the over-all
program, stands ready always to render assistance
to any worthwhile project, whether it be for adults
or youths. The Community Chest raises the funds
which make its operation possible. The VFW has
been cooperative in manning its rink; but, most
important of all is the attitude throughout the city
that nothing is too good for the youngsters. That
is the spirit from which comes substantial citizens.

Head of the program is William V. Haskell,
himself a Presque Isle boy, a University of Maine
man, a former teacher, athlete and veteran of the
most recent world conflict. The recreational pro-
gram is recognized by and is a part of a national
organization.

That’s the whole story—the happy tale of a city
with foresight enough to recognize the fact that
today’s kiddies are tomorrow’s substantial citi-
zens. The whole country would lose nothing by
following the Presque Isle example.

a very popular addition to your camp staff.

“The Admiral is about nine years .old. He is
gentle, likes children, has never shown any vicious
traits, and is no more stubborn that a lot of people
I know. He is easy to care for--—eats everything,
including paper sacks, tobacco—in fact, anything

..he is given. He has a strong tenor voice and could

be used to replace or supplement the bugler who
blows reveille. He would become the camp mascot,
I am sure. I have never seen more than four chil—
dren ride him at a time, but that may not be the
limit. '

“He is used to staying out all winter and would
not require any special care. Perhaps the zoo peo-
ple could look after him during the winter if
necessary. .

“A picture of you or the Mayor riding him up
to the flagpole would give the camp program some
publicity.

'“If you are interested in my proposition, I will
be glad to release Jackson any time between July
12 and July 21 as a permanent gift.”

RECREATION

 

Recreation Comes to Somerville

OMERVILLE, N. J., is a borough of approxi-

mately 12,000 population, very much recrea-

tion-minded. This was not the sentiment of
the people 25 years ago when the borough con-
sisted of less than 8,000 persons who gave no
effort and very little thought to either park lands
or recreation.

In the late twenties, Somerville was fortunate
to have a Mayor who visualized a strip of about
100 acres of wasteland, with a brook running
through its entire length, within the borough
limits, as grounds for future park lands. He
promoted a movement to acquire this land by per-
sonal donation or purchase and thus paved the
way for the park development of which the borough
is now proud.

There had been various attempts to start a pub-
lic playground on this land by different organiza-
tions, but no one became very serious until 1931
when a group of women from the Home and School
League appeared before the Borough Council and
asked that a plot of ground be cleared so that their
organization might operate a playground that "sum-
mer. The Council set aside $2,500 to meet this
request and the first play area was developed. A
group of young people known as the Somerville
Recreation Association was organized and joined
their efforts with the Home and School League,
continuing to raise funds by benefits
and private subscriptions to help
keep this play area in operation.

They did a good job. The pro-
gram grew rapidly so that within
three years they found themselves
with insufficient funds and more
land needing leveling and planting
to meet the demands of the citi-
zenry.

In 1935 the Association ap-
peared before the Borough Coun-
cil with a request that the town
make a financial contribution to its
efforts and learned to its dismay
that the municipality was not per—
mitted by law to make contribu-
tions to a private organization.
This prompted the Borough Council
to interest itself in setting up its
own Commission to carry on such

OCTOBER 1947

By C. PALMER BATEMAN

Chairman, Park and Recreation Commission
Somerville. New Jersey

work, and in March 1936 the Council and Mayor
created a Park and Recreation CommisSion con-
sisting of five members. A very modest budget of
$800 was appropriated. It was the duty of the
Commission to take over the 100 acres of borough
land, create and supervise play areas, and also
plant and develop the unsightly wasteland.

The new Commission went to work immediately,
surveying the proposition as a whole. A small
amount of necessary play equipment was pur-
chased and a director hired for July and August.
Soon it was found that still more play areas, equip—
ment and leaders would be needed. The Commis-
sion used the resources offered by the WPA and
wrote a'project to cover part of the borough park
lands for grading, planting, an athletic field and
tennis courts. The actual outlay from the local A
budget was under $1, 500.

Wasteland area . . . . .

 

 

. . . . . becomes a tennis court

When the work was completed, the unsightly
spots had been eliminated and three play areas
were in action. The Council, during this period,
increased the budget of the Commission to $7,000
for grass cutting and operating play areas. Today
there are four playgrounds along the winding
brook, four tennis courts, four baseball diamonds,
two large pools and a small one, four shuffleboard
courts, horseshoe courts, swings, see-saws, slides
and other small equipment necessary on a well—
organized playground. Over 1,000 children are
registered and a large number of adults are now
using these facilities in the evenings. There are
five full—time summer playground leaders and a
year—round director to coordinate the entire pro-
gram. The operating budget has increased until it
now tops $16,000——the money is raised by taxa-
tion the same as for other community services.

Up until 1941 little was done for recreation
except to operate the playgrounds during the sum-
mer months. The Commission recognized the need
for indoor programs for the teen—agers and adults
of the community during the winter months. No
community building was available, nor were there
funds with which to provide one. So the Commis-
sion again started from scratch on this problem.
The school buildings of the community had never
been used for outside recreation as ,it had been the
policy of the School Board to close all school
properties except for school purposes or for hire.
A series of conferences, however, resulted in the
Board permitting the Commission to use one of the
gymnasiums one night a week under its personal

338

supervision. The results were such
that the Board gradually increased
the use of the buildings to the
Commission until two gymnasiums
and classrooms are being used four
nights a week.

The question of direction by the
end of 1946 became too time-ab—
sorbing for the Commission to
handle and the time seemed right
to employ a year-round director.
The Commission, aware of the in-
crease in municipal budget by tak-
'ing this step, spent considerable
time in promoting the idea to civic
leaders and councilmen. The result
was complete approval by the
Borough Council, and the 1947
budget,included a full-time director and part-time
secretary. Somerville now has a full-time recrea-
tion program.

The recreation program has grown into an im-
portant cog in the community life. The citizenry
is enjoying community sings, block dances, special
holiday programs, bus trips to ball games, com-
munity band, town baseball team and many other
items of interest to the spectator as well as the

participant.

0

Each time the Commission makes a forward
move, new fields automatically Open and there
seems to be no end to what can be accomplished.
As far ahead as it may see now, there is consider-
able thought being given to the erection of com—
munity recreation buildings and athletic fields.
These may come a. lot sooner than anticipated!

1.

 

 

“TRADITIONALLY America has been a land of
good will.

“Its barn raisings, quilting parties, husking bees,
turned individual tasks into group recreation. The
'way of good will, trust, c00perative work with
individual freedom has built our nation.

“We are at heart do—gooders. The principles by
which we live are rooted in the cumulative experi—
ences of men through the centuries.

“The American mind has been open to select
from everywhere those principles of human be-
havior which have demonstrable social utility.”

—Algo D. Henderson in Antioch Notes,
December, 1946.

RECREATION

 

Box Top Broadcasters . . .

Gainesvi/Ie ’5 Junior Radio Gui/d

GROUP OF YOUNGSTERS eight to eighteen meet
A twice a week for rehearsal, radio training,
and broadcasting in the Gainesville Recrea-

tion Department’s Junior Radio Guild.
This eight-year-old project, which is an im-
portant part of the Recreation Department’s dra-'
matic program, got under way in January 1938

.with an initial broadcast of “Safety Musketeers”

and has been going strong every year since then
with the exception of one year’s absence during
wartime. Of the three boys in the first broadcast,
two have graduated from the Guild into profes-
sional dramatic careers.

Growing by leaps and bounds from the time of
the first broadcast, the Guild branched out into such
programs as the Red Lantern series, “The Toy
Maker of Rotterdam,” “The Never-Never Land,”
“The Nutcracker of Toyland,” “The Pied Piper
of Hamlin,” and a Dutch dialect modern version
of “Rip Van Winkle” in addition to numerous folk
stories. This year the group has produced two
thirteen—week series of radio plays based on “Lit—
tle Women” and “Alice in Wonderland” over the
local radio station in regular Sun— ‘
day afternoon broadcasts.

Some of the Guild members are
so small they have to stand on
boxes to reach the microphone
but the caliber of their work is
mature. The program’s popularity
with young and old alike is evi-
denced by the large group of
adults and children attending the
regular Sunday broadcasts, as
well as those who tune in at
home. Teachers also have a word
of praise for the Guild’s work,
saying that the Speech training
and imagination development ac-
complished in the program greatly
improve the members’ school
work.

The hrst esential mastered by
the children in preparation for
radio work is reading. Many who

OCTOBER 1947

By CLIFF KERBY, Director

Recreation Department
Gainesville, Florida

already know their ABC’s have to be re-taught to
read for radio. Enunciation is emphasized but nat-
uralness of speech is of primary importance. Radio
technique is taught early so that by the time the
children appear before live mikes, they are com-
pletely at ease. Grownups attending the shows are
often amazed at the professional way the youngsters
fade in and out before the mikes. The children also
master sound and announcing techniques in addi-
tion to character interpretation for the various
programs.

Most programs are chosen so that the younger
children and the teen-agers appear in the same pro-
ductions, but throughout the year at least one
show is given using members of each group in the
cast. Some of the members who began their Guild
work standing on boxes during the first year it was
organized are now playing leading roles in the
Guild productions. The girl who plays the title
role in the current production, “Alice in Wonder-

On the air

 

339

land,” is one of these original “box top” members
as is her brother who now announces the program.

Fifty active youngsters compose this year’s
Junior Radio Guild and every week brings a new
group of applicants who “want to try out for the
radio program.” Next year the Guild hopes to ex-

pand its activities to include two radio programs a
week and looks forward to even greater participa-
tion.

When the music fades and the announcer says,
“The Junior Radio Guild of Gainesville is on the
air,” you can bet that everybody is listening.

 

US 0 Reconverts

HE MIDDLETOWN Community Service Organi-
l zation is an outgrowth of the USO which was

established for the Middletown Air Technical
Command and local servicemen. USO activities
were reduced to a minimum following the Japanese
surrender in 1945, but a group of USO committee-
men desired to see an organization similar to the
USO functioning for the benefit of returning ser-
vicemen and the youth of Middletown, Pa. To-
wards this end an appropriation from USO funds
and the use of the building were obtained; an ac-
tivity director was secured and a program begun.
Emphasis was placed on arranging a program to
provide good recreation for the young people from
12 to 20. Open six evenings each week for recrea-
tion activities, the community building soon be-
came the center'of local activities. However, with
the interest shown by the boys and girls attending,
it was soon realized that the community needed
' more room and facilities to meet the many demands.
Here the Middletown Borough Council stepped
in and allocated during the latter part of 1945 a
sum of $2,700 for the continuance of a community
program with a non-political committee to oversee
the activities, policy and general use of finances.
The committee was soon in action and by-laws
were drawn up and approved. The Borough Coun-
cil purchased all equipment from the USO and
presented it to the Middletown Community Service
Organization, the official name of the group.

Activities. MCSO activities include a variety of
social, athletic, and educational features. Some of
these include: basketball, tumbling, volleyball, box-
ing, wrestling, indoor baseball and table tennis
during the winter; softball, volleyball, baseball and
other outdoor sports during the summer. These
are under the supervision of two paid workers.

Each Saturday morning a free movie is held for
the young children of Middletown and surround-
ing communities. Spelling contests, quizzes and
dances are held from time to time.

340

Boys from 12 to 16 play basketball one night
each week. There are usually about eight teams,
affording playing opportunities for many boys who
do not get a chance to play in the public schools.
There is also a Sunday School basketball league
made up mostly of ex-servicemen who play twice

a week under supervision.

To publicize its activities, MCSO mails out pro-
grams listing activities for the coming week, and
the local newspapers also carry the weekly sched-
ule in Monday issues. . '

Playground Activities. The MCSO was respon-
sible for the beginning of an organized outdoor
summer program in terms of park and playground
activity. Sites were selected and leaders hired.
The playground records for 1946 indicate an out-
door attendance of both participants and spectators
exceeding 23,000. The number of different activi-
ties offered totalled more than 20 and were avail-
able live days a week for a period of ten weeks.

Coordination. All MCSO activities are sched-
uled in coordination with school, athletic, social
and educational functions in order to insure at- f
tendance and support in all these activities. Satur-
day night games and dances are alternated and are
dependent on school schedules. The community ||
building is also used daily by school pupils for I
basketball practice which is carried on under the
supervision of school representatives.

  
     
  

Both volunteer and paid workers help maintain
MCSO activities. There is a paid director on duty
directing activities each weekday evening and
others assist him with some of the programs. I
Members of the school staff are active in the pro-
gram. Volunteers, besides helping with activities,
also are in charge of the snack bar. I

There is still much to be done in the way of 1-

recreation for the community, but Middletown is 

off to a flying start. +.
t

RECREATION |

 

 

 

By FRED W. FRANZ

Physical Education Instructor

Hemps’read. N. Y.. High School

noon?”
“Sure thing, Jim.”

“Save me one, will you?”

“You bet. See you later.”

This is the kind of conversation heard in the
halls of Hempstead High School on Mondays and
Wednesdays, the days the dancing clubs meet.
About 100 boys and girls choose dancing as their
outside activity, as they would bowling, riding,
swimming, or baseball.

Folk dancing and square dancing are not new to
the boys and girls of Hempstead High School. In
1942 I introduced this activity to a small group of
15 boys and 15 girls of the junior-senior class. We
made a slow, but very sure beginning. ,Our first
group was carefully picked, the program thoroughly
discussed and planned. We danced on Friday after-
noon from 3 :00 to 5:00 because this was the one
afternoon a week when I was not busy with the
boys’ intramural program.

The first several weeks were given over to square
dancing, only because we wanted to be sure that
all the members were having fun. After a few
weeks of square dancing, we learned a very simple
folk dance, then another and another. A surprising
thing happened. A request was made—and by the
boys—for more folk dancing. Our beginning. we
felt, was a success. Gradually, folk dances re-
placed the squares.

Ill—I1, BETTY! Coming folk dancing this after-

Reasons

Why have folk dancing or square dancing in a
high school? Our main reason is that we had an
instructor who knew folk dancing and square danc—
ing and felt that this type of dancing is one of the
most social activities there is to offer to a co-edu-
cational group. If Jim or Betty can come to a
square dance; have a good time doing a do—si~do
or swinging a pretty partner; can meet new and
different partners in an easy, natural way; and can

OCTOBER 1947

 

"Circle Righ’r"

be happy among all kinds of people, we think the
square dance is worth while.

In beginning groups, especially in square danc-
ing, very little skill and rhythm are needed. “If
you can walk, you can square dance,” is the fa-
miliar saying of many callers. To be an. outstand~
ing square dancer, of course, demands greater
skill, greater rhythm. When we get into our first
folk dance the same results are there. The skills
are not so easy, the rhythm is not so simple. Dif-
ferent music, different steps, different techniques

. all challenge the individual.'Soon, the awk—

wardness wears away, the steps become more

familiar, the dancers become more confident and
some new inner spirit makes itself felt. Again and
again we have proved dancing’s social values in
our groups.

Folk dancing brings together people of different
backgrounds and nationalities. For the most part,
a folk dancing group is a friendly and a happy
group. Certainly, here is a practical laboratory for
building better citizenship and happier individuals.

The war' years interefered with our long range
plans. By 1943 we had hoped to have a folk and
square dance membership of at least 150 boys and
150 girls. This hope was delayed but during the
war a small group of students kept meeting to
dance despite the instructor’s absence. They had
collected a few folk and square dance records. For
three years they kept teaching enough classmates
to keep the small group going. In January 1946
the faculty leader returned from naval service to

341

pick up again his physical education duties at
Hempstead and long range plans to build up the
folk dancing are again in the making.

Success

The folk and square dancing program is now
coming into its rightful place as a part of our reg-
ular physical education program. It is succeeding
in our high school for various reasons. First of all,
we have a principal who is greatly interested in
seeing that his students get the most out of their
school programs, be it scholastic attainment or
after-school activity. He feels that there is value
in our dance program because it helps many stu-
dents, especially freshmen, adjust socially to high
school life. That social adjustment makes itself
felt in the school citizens—the students themselves.
Through his helpful interest we now have two
days assigned to dancing. He has recognized that
this activity should be apart of our regular pro-
gram, and it is treated as such. Without this ad-
ministrative cooperation we still would be trying
to direct the program on the instructor’s off-night.
Our girls’ physical education instructors help us
line up the girls. It is a pleasure to work in a
school where the men’s and women’s departments
cooperate. It is “our” program with both depart-
ments contributing to the success of our folk danc-
ing groups. Once each year we have had Ed
Durlacher, well-known square dance caller, come
to’the high school and teach square dancing for
one week. Under his direction the girls’ and boys’
gym classes meet together in our larger gym for
square dance instruction.

‘What are the facts about our groups? We have
two separate dancing clubs—a freshman-SOpho-
more club, and a junior—senior club. Since we use
a small elementary school gym, we must limit our
membership. We tried to have 25 boys and 25
girls from each class. Practically, our meeting
place will hold no more than 20 boys and 20 girls
for a dancing total of 40 students. Sometimes we
squeeZe in a total of 50. The freshman-sophomore
group meets every Monday afternoon from 3 :15 to
5:00. The junior-senior group meets every Wed-
nesday from 3 :15 to 5 :00. The former group gets
more square dancing, while the latter group gets
more folk dancing.

Twice a month we have open house dances.
These come on the second and fourth Saturdays of
each month from 8:00 to 11:00 P.M. These Sat-
urdays are open to all high school youngsters of
our own and other high schools. Simple dances
are taught for newcomers and more difficult dances
are demonstrated by club members. The program

342

is about evenly divided between square dancing
and folk dancing. We also believe in sharing this
activity with parents, so once every two months we
have a family night dance. Rest assured, we all
have a good time and an active evening.

Skills

One of our many reasons for existing is to help
students learn dancing skills. One group has both
types of dancers—good ones and poor ones-——-with
hrst year students probably the most awkward. In
the beginning about 85 percent of our group are
poor dancers. We cannot show our critics a lot of
students highly efficient in the folk dance technique,
but we can show them students who are growing
every day through new experiences. They are
growing physically, mentally, and spiritually, be-
cause in the folk dance, with all its social values
for fellowship and good will, we do develop spirit-
ually. A folk dancer soon gets the feeling that “it’s
good to be alive!” .

We shall learn many dances during our years
with this group. If. a freshman joins our group and
will stay with folk dancing through his senior year,
he should know some 30 to 40 folk dances as well
as all the basic calls of square dancing. A list of
folk dances we do now includes Rochester Schot-
tische, Regular Schottische, Heel-Toe Polka, Nor—
wegian Polka, Road to the Isles, Cherkessia, Kal-
velis, Ace of Diamonds, Rye Waltz, Black Hawk
W altz, Sicillian Tarantella, Let Us Be Joyful, and
the Hambo (only for the best dancers). Dances
that upper-classmen will learn in the future in-
clude Karapyet, Meitschi Putz di, Laendlei‘.
Napoleon, Masquerade, Pfingsfreitag, Swiss Weg-
gis, Swedish Klap Dance, Varsouvienne, Russian
Waltz, Tancuj, Alexandrovski, and Little Man in
a Fix. The speed at which we teach these new
dances depends, of course, on. the type of students
we have in our clubs. We go as slowly as we have
to, giving individual attention to those who need
it, letting our own better dancers help those be-
ginners who learn more slowly.

Sharing the Fun

“Man does not live unto himself alone” nor does
our group exist primarily for its own ends. We
know what fun we have, and we want to share this
activity with others. Ever since our first class, our
inHuence has spread. In 1942, shortly after we
organized our first small group, there was a desire
on the part of our group to share its activity. But
again, our small space limited our plans. So the
group asked the P.T.A. for help in getting the
large high school gym open on Friday evenings.

RECREATION

    
  
  
 
 
  
  

IT FEELS RIGHT
IT PLAYS RIGHT

We at VOIT have not tried to revolutionize the athletic ball business with our
X820. Rather, our technical statT has worked to produce a basketball that
feels right, plays right and still delivers lots more service at considerably
less cost. This great basketball is truly the King of the Court. Its beauty of

appearance is topped only by its beauty of performance.

 

   

1600 E. 25TH STREET, lOS ANGELES H o 180 N. WACKER DRIVE, CHICAGO 6 l .

 
 
   

OCTOBER 1947

At those dances we played records for modern
dancing, and also worked in our folk dancing in a
small way and square dancing in a big way.

Even today, after five years, we have more boys
on the floor for square dancing than we do for
ballroom dancing. In our squares and folk dances,
we have made it “almost a rule that girls will not
dance together. Only when we “run out” of boys,
do we encourage girls to dance together. This is
not true of modern dancing. Finally, our folk dance
interest has spread to our parents and'our “groups
have been enjoying family nights periodically.
Much more should be done by leaders to interest
the community in activities where parents and
children can share each others’ company.

There is a place for adults in our folk and square
dance plans. We have large beginners’ classes
where men and women can learn basic steps and
dances. Two classes meet every Thursday evening,
as part of the adult educatiOn program. A begin-
ners’ class meets from 7:15 to 9:00 P.M. and a
group with. more folk dance experience meets from

9:00 to II :00 P.M. Adults come from many sur-
rounding villages to join in these folk dances.

On Long Island, we are trying to make Hemp-
stead a folk dance center. As a folk dance leader
I am always anxious to meet people of other na—
tionalities and learn their dances. Many nationali-
ties are represented in our own and neighboring
communities. There is no reason at all why we
should not have a common meeting ground in the
folk dance where the finest and best in all nation-
ality cultures can be brought together to make
better Americans. During the past nine years of
folk dance teaching as well as square dance ac-
tivity, I have seen a lot of adults who have found
a new and vital social activity in the folk dance.
During the next few years hundreds of others will
find the same social values through folk dancing
and square dancing. At Hempstead High School
we are glad because our young pe0ple are finding
fun and friends through our folk dance clubs. We
look to the future, and see many pleasant, active
hours of fun and enjoyment for a great number of
pe0ple through our folk dance program.

 

 

Community Square Dance. . .

UST WHAT EFFECT a big community square

dance can have even on a sophisticated vaca-
tionist’s sector of the country has been exemplified
in San Diego with the presentation of a two-week
long square dance festival conducted by James
Clossin of El Paso, Texas, and sponsored by the
City Recreation Department.

In the first place, the festival exceeded the wild-
est expectations of its sponsors, packing in such a
crowd the first night that what was originally
planned for a week-long festival had to be divided
into two groups and extended to two weeks.

The true test of the success of the square dance
festival in San Diego, however, was the number
of square dance clubs (actually formed both for
instruction and for dancing) that the Recreation
Department was able to organize successfully fol-
lowing the festival. Every section of the city was
represented immediately by a group whose inter-
est in square dancing had been directly or indi-
rectly an outgrowth of the community dance. These
clubs are meeting now and have shown a steady
gain in attendance since being formed. All that was
needed was a means of getting this latent interest

in group dancing aroused, and the festival was
the answer.

344

The square dance festival, or “seminar” as it was
referred to in the newspapers, lasted for six con-
secutive nights, with evening sessions being held
from 7:30 to 9:30 P.M. The last night, a Satur-
day, was turned over completely to dancing.

Clossin, a famous advocate of square dancing
who knows no less than a thousand calls for dances,
gave instruction slowly, progressing from a few
simple figures on the first night or two to the far
more complicated squares on the last nights. Learn-
ing the dances was achieved in such a relaxed and
pleasant manner that nobody suffered embarass—
ment and the instruction process had all the socia-
bility of square dancing itself. All that was re-
quired, in terms of physical properties for the
event, was a large hall, a loud speaker system, a
blackboard and the artistry of Clossin.

San Diegans are looking forward eagerly to an—
other dance seminar at the same time next year.
Particularly significant to the recreational pro-
gram is the fact that so many young people took
part in San Diego’s square dance festival. This
fact alone promises the growth in popularity—or
rather, since Californians are apt to forget its for-
mer universality, the renewal in popularity—uof
square dancing—Ralph Trembley, Recreation De-
partment, San Diego, California.

RECREATION

     

ilson basketball has what it takes to give your
ers the right “feel” of the ball. It meets the

ing linger grip test of actual play. For per-
balance—for sharp passes and dribbles—for

rebound it’s a Wilson!
a d that goes Whether it’s aWilson LAST-BILT

CJO. Both are big time—champions in
,” playability and ruggedness.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
(A Wilson &Co. Inc. subsidiary)

son “Official” LAST-BILT Construction—Per-
ly round. Precisely balanced. True rebound.
“dead” spots. Finest top-grain cowhide.

son “Official” CJO—Laceless. Perfect bal- _

     

e. Finest top-grain cowhide. Double-lined for
ngth and durability. Lock-stitch construction.

!
w [0101011
DAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

: COUCI'IESI . . . sHow

YOUR SQUAD THESE NEW
“OFFICIAL” MOVIES

 

Films
co-sponsored

and

General Mills

Teen-Age Clubs

NN MAXWELL SANDERS of the Viking Harbor
A Teen-Age Club in Jefferson County, Ken-
tucky, is a teen-ager who has recently written

a fourteen-page paper discussing teen-age clubs.
Presented here are a number of excerpts taken
from various chapters of her paper.

Preface

More and more people are Spending their time
in some form of recreation. I believe it to be a
coming field and for this reason have chosen rec-
reation work for my future vocation. One of the
most important and growing branches of recrea-
tion is teen-age clubs.

I, myself, am a teen-ager. I know what it is to
have a recreation club in which to “hang out.”
It is my sincere belief that many benefits can be
gained through these organizations. Therefore, I
present this paper with hopes
that those who read it may gain
a better view of teen-age clubs
from a typical “teen-ager.”

****

My points of view will differ
from others I know. I am hoping,
however, one will realize that I
am still just a “teen-ager.”

The Problem

In fairness to the hour in which
we live I think it should be stated
that the problem is ageless. Age-
less, in the sense that it has ever
been with the world. Ageless,
again, in the sense that it is for-
ever young, young with such
energy and potency that each gen-
eration is persuaded the problem
originated with them.

It may be that the problem
could be stated in one word—
pe0p1e! The ramifications, how-
ever, are so multiple and complex
that, although untold million of
words have been written" and

spoken, the solution still evades

our world.
* * * >1:

We, of our hour, are thinking
in terms of fulfilling the need by

346

 

filling full the lives of young people. It is still true
that “an idle mind is the devil’s workshOp,” so we
propose that the increasing number of leisure hours
of youth shall be filled with opportunities that are
wholesome and of p0pular appeal. We would avail
ourselves of an implement that is not new, but
which we believe has possibilities of being pre—
sented in a new light.
* >1: >l< *

It is . . . “re-creation” (making anew) that we
are seeking to accomplish. This is in line with a.
verse of Scripture, “Wherefore, be ye not con-
formed to this world, but be ye transformed by
the renewing of your minds.” Re-creation is to lay
hold of the possibilities within ourselves and ac-
complish those purposes for which they were given
us. My field of thinking and planning is, I think,
of necessity limited to youth. A paper this brief

r' ‘ ‘ n
Courtesy Parks and Recreation Dept” Houston, Texas

RECREATION

 

Wmm:agm¢;gm YOUR 

- GYMNASIUM...

 

I

 VAULTING HORSES CLIMBING ROPES CHEST WEIGHTS

; VAULTING BUCKS NIATS VOllEYBAll STANDARDS
I E SPRINGBOAROS IHAT TRUCKS CORRECTIVE APPARATUS

: HORIZONTAL BOXING RING PARALLEL BARS

: BARS PUNCHING BAG BASKETBALL

: FLYING RINGS PLATEORNIS BACKSTOPS

: TRAVELING RINGS STALL BARS IAN-SHAPED BANKS

0

YES, Porter can equip your gymnasium completely and properly with authentic
apparatus. This 79-year-old company has equipped thousands of America’s lead-

ing schools, universities and clubs.

Let Porter’s installation engineers help you plan your gym facilities, for eB'iciency
and adequacy. Prompt deliveries of standard items can be made from stock. Esti-
mates for installed equipment submitted without obligation.

I. , \II x
I WRITE FOR PORTERS BIG 1947 CATALOG AND PRICE LIST   Q V

THE .l. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

    

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

‘

could not be comprehensive enough to cover all
phases possible to re-creation of youth so it will
be virtually limited to teen-age clubs. We are to
look at and investigate these agencies in the light
of providing a solution for the age-old problem of
the misbehavior of people.

Stumbling Blocks

I indicated earlier that I knew full well the
theory of recreation as a- cure for the moral mis-
behavior of mankind was not original with our
generation. It has been tried before and I think the
fact of the results of previous efforts being as
futile as they have been, can be attributed mainly
to two factors.

The first of these factors I would suggest holds
within itself, immature thinking and inadequate
planning. Our world has simply “played” with the
thought of “playing.” . . . Until it is recognized as

~ being a real challenge to our ability, deserving and

requiring much of our time and talent, no appreci-
able progress can be made.

* =l< * *

Coupled with this deficiency is the inadequacy
of facilities provided for the work. Seldom, if ever,
have the accommodations been other than a “spare”
room, an unused loft, a basement that could be
used from time to time, or other makeshift pro-
visions. It is ridiculous to assume that such could
long compete with the neon—lighted, spacious-
Hoored, and brilliantly decorated commercial en-
terprises that lure youngsters oft-times into places
we do not want them to go.

****

The second stumbling block is not to be under-
stood as a blanket indictment of any group of peo-
ple, but, rather as factual appraisal of a situation
that does exist. It is extremely difficult to make
considerable progress against juvenile delinquency
while we are faced with as much parental delin-
quency as we are. . . . So long as parents fail to
share in filling full the lives of our children with
wholesome provisions; so long as parents privilege
themselves the right to frequent questionable
places of entertainment; so long as parents are
loose in their talk and lewd in their living, so long
shall delinquent parents sow a seed that will put
their children’s teeth on edge.

Teen-Age Clubs

A youth center in this study applies to a recrea-
tion center used at specific times, sometimes ex-
clusively—by young people with a program which

348

they helped to plan and operate themselves. These
quarters may or may not be in a separate location
and are often found in quarters used for other
purposes.

The alarming growth of delinquency, the general
restlesssness of young people, the effect of war
strain and tension, with disruption of normal I
family life; all this prodded the youth center
movement.

* * * *

Every recreation program begins with the recog-
nition of a basic human need; that is the need for I
fun and relaxation, with a satisfactory social life.
At no time is this more needed than during the
“in-between” years of adolescence. War did not
create this need, but it has intensified it, pointed '
it out, and brought it to the attention of hundreds
of American communities.

* * * *

Many good programs have originated with pub-
lic and private community agencies, with clubs,
schools, churches, local officials, newspapers and
even with radio stations. Experience shows, how-
ever, that even when adults take the lead youth
wants a voice in the program from the beginning. -
The most successful projects have had the cooper-
ation of teen-agers in both planning and operation.

Membership generally covers the fourteen to
eighteen age group with about three-fourths of the
centers also including the thirteen-year-old and
three-fourths the nineteen-year-old.

In some centers young children are admitted
for special periods. Most centers act on the theory
that mixing the older and younger groups will not
work, as the older ones drop out.

The encouraging thing about youth center mem-
bership, however, is frequently not its size, but its
make-up, which in most cases represents a true
cross-section of community or neighborhood.

****

Careful thought should be given to the danger
of excluding through high dues or admission
charges, youths who need the center. . . . Usually
an initial fee is charged and then dues of about a
nickel weekly are requested in most clubs.

Membership cards are issued and a list of mem—
bers is always kept on file.

* ac * :1:
Organization

Most youth centers should have an adult in at-
tendance Whenever they are open. There is evi-
dence to show that a center’s success or failure
rests largely upon the character of leadership. The

RECREATION

 

 

ability to achieve the delicate balance between too
much and too little supervision is a number one
requisite in the director.

The director should have qualities like tact, tol-
erance, skill at crafts and games, sense of humor
and ability to {it in with the “gang.”

:1: a: * a:

The set-up in many centers is calculated to keep
the grown—ups in the background. The most com—
mon form of government consists of a youth coun-
cil, committee or board, under the supervision of a
full-time director, with an advisory committee,
l sponsoring organization, or some similar group
lending moral and financial support in addition to
advice when requested. Where adult control is
slightly less restricted to the sidelines, it may be
exercised: (I) through a senior board of direct—
,' ors, sponsoring committee or other adult commit-
tees, to which plans are submitted for approval;
(2) through a group of adult advisors who meet
regularly with the youth committee; (3) through
school supervision or, (4) through adult control
of all finances.

* a: * a:

A supervisor is necessary in a club to see that

' things run smoothly, but officers in a club are also

essential. Without them the teen-agers, I believe, .

would feel that they aren’t really running their
club and it would promote the chance for too much
adult domination.

a: a: >I= a:

The actual operation of the youth center and the
program of activities built around it \provide a fine
opportunity for youth participation, both in plan-
ning and in service. A committee of youth should
have responsibility for the center. Most of the plan-
ning and work in the club is through committees,
which are usually organized by the president and
vice-president and sponsor. Every club will dis-
cover what committees are needed, in order to get

the best results. One committee, which I think is,

essential to every club, is the Policy Committee.
This may be known by other names, but its duty
is to set up the policy of the club and to deal with
persons who abuse the policy.

* * >I= >I=

Scope of Program

. . . The meat of the program is, of course, in its
activities, in its opportunities for doing. Some of
the signposts toward successful youth programs are:
(1) they try to cater to the interests of minorities
as well as those of the majority, and (2) they gear
activities to seasons and vacations and plan pro-
grams ahead.

In a well-run center the program has evolved

OCTOBER 1947

out of the joint planning of the members and the
director or of the adult advisors of the center.
Activities grow out of the interests of the young

people. a: * * *

It is clear from the findings already available
from cities where youth interest surveys have been
made that youth itself is interested in a broad range
of activities. It wants to dance, lounge around, play
ping-pong and table games, but, it also wants to
swim, hike, skate, play softball, tennis, badminton
and other games. It wants to sing and play musi-
cal instruments, to join dramatic groups, to make
things with its hands, to enjoy the fellowship of
clubs and service groups. And the need for the
participation of boys and girls together in these
activities should not be forgotten.

If opportunities for these activities are to be
provided, youth center’s leadership must be en-
thusiastic, imaginative, resourceful and energetic.
The youth center, however limited in its own facili—
ties, must be the central point from which the
total program can radiate and through which the
activities can be integrated with other public and
private agencies throughout the community. One
present general weakness is the failure of youth
center’s leadership to take advantage of the exist-
ing facilities. The use of these facilities and services
provides a fine opportunity to acquaint youth with
what is regularly available for them.

Possible Benefits

. . . Oft-times this is the first opportunity many
boys and girls have ever had to shoulder respon-
sibility. The best supervision will create a con-
sciousness on the part of the membership that it is
their project. It is a proud moment when teen-
agers sit around a conference table and formulate
plans for their club. Mistakes they will make and
errors of judgment will be revealed, but real lead-
ership is being developed as they extricate them- '
selves from unhealthy situations.

They teach themselves that moral principles are
an essential part of their group code of conduct.
So it will follow that by-laws and regulations con-
tain such as promote clean speech, clear thinking

and wholesome conduct.
* * an: *

Here, too, will be found a thoroughly mixed
group. Religious creeds or skin color, affluence or
obscurity of parents, make no difference over a
ping-pong table.

>I= >1: * an:
The Accomplishment

“Awake, thou that sleepest, arise, lest we per-
ish.” In conclusion, I feel that the clarion cry of

349

the Israelite is pretty much the need of our hour.
I think we have found that the problem is not very
trivial and the possible accomplishments enormous.
It does not require very definite contributions in
such matters as planning, supervising, financing,
‘and expanding. I would say that all of these ma—
terials we have at hand. W e,would think it silly
if a group of competent craftsmen sat themselves
down beside an accumulation of all essential ma-
terials and bewailed the lack of. a house. We could
only say to them that they didn’t deserve a house.
Isn’t it a parallel case when a group of people
" evaluates the need for teen—age clubs, a glance about
them reveals that we are amidst all necessary ma-
terial and yet we continue foolishly to do nothing
about it?

My contention is that our sole need is to be
awakened, first to the act of the need, secondly, to
the possibility of accomplishment and, lastly, to
the realization of the good that can be achieved.
It Is a problem of such proportion and a program
of such merit that I feel it deserves the support of
religious, educational, fraternal, civic and all other
grOUps in the effort to create unitedly what could
never be accomplished individually.

You will pardon me if my enthusiasm leads me
to write as if teen-age clubs were a “cure-all” for

       
    

 

350

This famous H & B Oval and the personal

autograph of a famous hitter written on
the barrel end are the quality hall-marks
found on no other make of bat.

"It’s your assurance
of the finest”—

every modern social ailment. It cannot be all of
that, of itself. However, it provides a healthy,
wholesome outlet for youthful enthusiasm and
privileges them the opportunity of sharing the re-
sponsibilities of adult judgments. This, unques-
tionably, will develop a quality of citizenry cal—
culated to make effective contributions to civic
welfare. Multiply the re-created characters of the
individual clubs by the thousands of centers and
you can see the potentialities are amazing.

This is then, but the last word; it is yours to
choose whether youth be hindered or helped by your
efforts. N 0 one can be unaffected though they may
be disinterested to the point of indifference. The
point is illustrated by the thinking of yesteryear—
whether or not a youngster would dance in the
company of his teen-age friends. We found out
that they would, almost without regard to par—
ental prohibition. Today we recognize in our think-
ing the choice is not whether they will dance, it is
only whether their dancing will be ballroom or
barroom. So with the challenge that comes to aid
in the recreation of youth—-you may 'share by
serving, or you may shirk by shunning—in either
event you are definitely wielding "an influence.

So——“Awake, thou that sleepest, arise, lest we
perish!” '

 

 
 

RECREATION

 

Introducing. . . C. E. Reed

 

C. E. Reed

MILING OVER the expanse of his uncluttered

desk and stroking his sparse hair, C. E. Reed,
manager of the National Recreation Association
field staff, directs the activities of approximately
30 workers on the Association’s staff, scattered
over the entire area of the United States. Under
his supervision are I 5 district representatives, four
social recreation specialists, one arts and crafts
specialist, three" staff members whose duties con-
cern programs and facilities for colored people,
three specialists working on surveys and long range
plans, one specialist in small town recreation and
one industrial representative.

Charlie Reed relates that in 1930 when he took
over direction of the field staff there were about
eight district representatives and several special-
ists as compared with the staff today which gives
service to the entire country.

During his long years with the Association, Mr.
Reed has served in various capacities in the As-
sociation’s field work, research and finance work
and in other phases of the Association’s activities.
He is a graduate of the University of Indiana and

the School of Social Service Administration, Uni-.

versity of Chicago. For three years he 'served as
Field Representative of the Community Agencies
Endorsement Committee, Chicago Association of
Commerce. He is now rounding out his 3Ist year
with the National Recreation Association, his 17th
year as manager of the field department.

During his years with the Association he has

OCTOBER 1947

made several studies which include: a study of the
administration of community recreation programs
by physical education instructors, a study made
under the direction of Lebert Weir concerning in-
dustrial recreation, a study on fees and charges,
and another concerning the possibilities of the
Junior Achievement Movement, particularly in re-
gard to the arts and crafts activities of this group.

During the first World War he served for a
while as a field organizer for War Camp Commu-
nity Service in the North Shore Chicago area, then
as W.C.C.S. organizer-director at Waukegan, Il-
linois (Great Lakes Naval Training Station). Fol-
lowing this he enlisted in the U. S. Navy.

At the close of the war he was division secretary
for the National Recreation Association field ser-
vice in the "Southeast and also conducted a series
of referendum campaigns which resulted in the
beginning of the recreation departments in such
cities as Alton, Illinois, Cedar Rapids, Iowa and
others. He also handled other field assignments
and district work before returning permanently to
headquarters.

As an extracurricular activity, although it sounds
like the typical busman’s holiday, he was the first
chairman of the American Legion Citizens’ Com-
mittee Recreation Commission which started the
local recreation program in the town where he
resides, North Plainfield, New Jersey, and was the

first chairman and member of the Recreation Com— .

mission for ten years.

Commission Appointed . . .

OVERNOR WARREN of California, on Septem-

ber 19, appointed seven members to the newly
created California Recreation Commission. Dr.
Clarence A. Dykstra, provost of the University of
California at Los Angeles, has been named chair-
man of the Commission. Others who will serve as
Commission members are: Mrs. Rollin Brown of
Hollywood, State President of the California Con-
gress of Parents and Teachers; Anderson Borth-
wick of San Diego, Chamber of Commerce mem-

ber and civic leader; Gareth W. Houk of Visalia,
Y.M.C.A. and Boy Scout leader and chairman of
the Visalia Recreation Commission; Claude H.
Adams, Merced civic leader and former district
attorney; Alvin Gruhn of Eureka, vice-president
of the California State Federation of Labor; and
Mrs. Bartlett B. Heard of Berkeley, past president
of the National Y.W.C.A. and member of the youth
division of the National Social Welfare Assembly.
A State Director of Recreation will be appointed
at a later date.

351

The County Helps . . .

BAKERSFIELD, CALIFORNIA, is the center of an
organization for recreation on a county-wide
basis. The Kern County Recreation and Cultural
Commission was set up as an agency of county
government in January 1945 with a full-time di-
rector. Its purpose is to assist townships, school
districts and incorporated communities to estab-

lish their own recreation programs, to help such

communities with budgets, program eXpansion and
physical facilities. Two towns in the county,
Bakersfield and Taft, have separate year-round
programs of their own.

The Commission was the answer to a long felt
need for the development of cultural and recrea-
tional facilities .in Kern County. It was brought
into being after several years of volunteer planning
and effort by civic-minded citizens under the aegis
of the Kern County Chamber of Commerce. Its
first undertaking was a study of needs in local
communities and in the county as a whole. To
this end the Commission set up community and
regional committees, and on the basis of informa-
tion brought in by these groups recommended
policies and procedures that were practical and
economically sound.

Under the provisions of California’s Community
Recreation Act cities, counties and school districts
in the state are authorized to pool their resources
to organize, promote and conduct such community
recreation programs as will contribute to recrea-
tional and educational objectives for the children
and adults of the state. With this authority, the
Commission drew up a planrfor the best use of
funds, facilities and personnel. The County Board
of Supervisors set up a finance plan that enabled a
community to establish a recreation program. ad-
ministered and operated locally on a fund match-
ing basis.

Such community action is entirely voluntary.
Wherever such a program is set up, however, there
must be a local public administrative authority,
authorized for incorporated areas by the city coun-
cil and legally established for unincorporated areas.
During the first year of the Commission’s exist—
ence 27 communities instituted local programs.

County-wide Activities

In addition to the local setups, there have de-
veloped activities which belong to the whole
county. Such, for instance, is the Kern Philhar-
monic Orchestra which, in its first season, played
five concerts.

352

The orchestra has a four-fold purpose. It pro-
vides its members with an opportunity to study
and play the best orchestral music. It gives students
the opportunity to continue music experiences
begun in high school and college orchestras. It
offers mature musicians the chance to play to-
gether for recreation. And it brings good music to
the listeners in the county.

The orchestra is managed by a board of direct-
ors which is county-wide in its representation. Two
of its members are appointed by the musicians
union. Musical leadership comes from a paid con-
ductor and from professional musicians who form
the musical framework of the group.

Such leadership costs money, and in order to
insure this basic necessity a foundation fund was
sought. In six weeks, without publicity or fanfare,
an efficient finance committee raised $10,000 in
$100 gifts. With this sum securing the initial
expenses, the orchestra is expected to become,
hereafter, self-supporting.

Future Plans

With the orchestra well established, the Com-
mission has now turned its thoughts to other ac-
tivities. A philharmonic chorus will be formed as
an appendage to the orchestra, and plans are going
forward for a junior artists bureau to encourage
young artists.

The Bakerslield Art Association and the Kern
County Library are cooperating with the Commis-
sion in sending art exhibits traveling all over the
county. The regional cultural activities committee
sponsored a fine arts festival in the spring of 1947.

To forward the cause of physical recreation the
regional committee for tournaments sponsored
tournaments in marbles, ping-pong and tennis
early in 1947.

This is, surely, an impressive program for an
agency which is a bare two years old. It bears
witness to what energy teamed with intelligent
planning can accomplish for recreation on a county-
wide scale.

James S. Plant

0R MANY YEARS James S. Plant was one of the

best and truest friends of the National Recrea-
tion Association. He had thought through the
philosophy of recreation and of leisure as only a
few men have. His presence at various Recreation
Congress gatherings was deeply appreciated by the
recreation workers of the country. Dr. Plant was
one of the pioneers who helped to build the foun-
dations of the National Recreation Association.

RECREATION

 

WORLD

A LANDLORD in Denver,
Colorado, not only prefers
tenants with children, he
also provides parties and games to keep junior en—
tertained. In addition to providing a haven for 18
veterans, their wives and 19 children, the land-
lord gathers the youngsters together on the second
floor stairway of his apartment house and treats
them to Mickey Mouse movies, ice cream or a
storytelling session. The building has safety ban-
nisters to keep the boys and girls on the carpeted
stairs and the only exit they can use leads to a
half-block square playground with recreation fa-
cilities.

Only for Children

Rad“) Falryland has been dramatized 0n

the radio each Sunday
afternoon for children of Los Angeles. The pro-
gram has been ar-
ranged by the Los
Angeles City Col-
lege radio depart-
ment after an ex—
tensive survey was
made of the needs

in the radio field.
“Fun with Fables,”
as the series is
called, also has the
approval of the
radio department of
the Tenth District
Parent-Teacher As-
sociation. '

Wide Scale
Project

Los ANGELEs is
still working on its
unusual $40,000,000
building project de4
signed to make the
city an outstanding
cultural center and
to serve aesthetic
and practical pur-
poses as well. The
program plans for a

OCTOBER 1947

ONE of Aesop’s Fables.

AT PLAY

30,000 seat auditorium and an opera house seating
6,000—envisioned as the future “second home" of
the Metropolitan Opera Company. The project,
conceived as a war memorial, is sponsored by the
Greater Los Angeles Plans, Inc., a non—profit
combination of business and civic leaders.

LEADERS from both the
professional and non-pro—
fessional theatre will at-
tend the Eastern Theatre
Conference to be held October 18 and 19 at the
University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware. Dele-
gates are being invited from a six state area to
discuss the problems of the stage and participate
in the discussions, demonstrations, forums and
symposiums planned for this initial regional con-
ference. The conference is sponsored by the Uni-

Conference on the
Theatre

 

Courtesy Recreation Commission, Newburgh, N. Y.

353

versity Dramatic Center and the Delaware Dra-
matic Association.

One Year Old—One of the first playgrounds
constructed by the Lions Club of David, Republic
of Panama, for its city’s children, will soon be a
year old. Erected as part of the club’s community
improvement program, the playground was the
first of four planned, one in the city itself and
three others in the suburbs. The Lions Club also
organized 'a parents’ assembly, similar to the Par-
ent-Teachers Association of the United States,
which has had some very successful and well-at-

tended meetings.

Magazine for Patients—~An In-Bed Club
Magazine was developed by the Recreation Asso-
ciation of Lancaster, Virginia. Articles, poems,
skits, drawings and biographies, contributed by a
number of bedded patients, were compiled and
mimeographed by the Girls’ Worker in the rec-
reation office and then circulated every two months
among a large group of “shut-ins.” The Girls’
Worker also made personal calls on members of
the group collecting articles and bringing news of
outside events.

Designed for Fun———-“The Spirit of Youth” is
a work of sculpture that was designed to attract
and interest New York children. Depicting two
girls- at play, the playground centerpiece was
carved by an instructor in sculpture at Columbia
University “so that kids can hang on it, touch it
and play in it.” The arms and legs of the figures
are fashioned “much like branches of a. tree, invit-
ing the youngsters to climb all over them.” The
centerpiece was planned for one of two play—
grounds which have been under construction in

East Harlem.

Picturesque Red School Houses—The little
red school house is going tohave flowers, trees and
shrubs added to its background of history and
romance. A nationwide contest to encourage clean-
up and beautification of rural school grounds is
being launched by the National Garden Institute.
The contest is being channeled through state and
county school superintendents or supervisors.
Teachers and principals are appointing commit-
tees of boys and girls to do the planting and solicit
funds and plants. The contest ends May 31, 1948,
but entry blanks must be filed not later than the
fifteenth of October. Awards will be presented to
the school groups which achieve the most im-
proved landscaping results and teachers in the win-
ning schools will receive honorary certificates.

354

Looking Back to Summer Days—Wilming-
ton, Delaware, had its share of fun and entertain-
ment during the summer months. Outdoor dances
were held in front of swimming pools and gym-
nasiums, back of schools and on the streets. Band
concerts were held in the parks, and playgrounds
conducted basketry, sewing and handcraft classes.
encouraged softball, badminton and volleyball
games, and planned special events such as hobo
days, picnic days, beach days, movies, community
sings and tournaments. Dances, concerts and ac-
tivities were sponsored by VVilmington’s local rec-
reation committees, schools, PTA’s, the park com-
mission, civic organizations and other groups.

Take Us Out to the Ball Game—A total of
300,000 boys and girls visited major league base-
ball parks for 48 big league games this summer
under the supervision of the Police Athletic League.

’ Every Saturday was youngsters’ day during the

spring school term, and during July and August
vacation months PALS were able to see the Yan-
kees, Dodgers or Giants in action almost every
weekday and Saturday afternoon.

More Fields for More Play—Development
of more than 4,600 acres of playing fieldsis the goal
of the County of London plan. The idea behind
this plan is to enable every school child to have
access to some field for games, sports and activi-
ties. For most secondary schools there are to be
large fields with classrooms in the Green Belt
where the children can spend one day each week.
Primary schools are to depend largely on encamp-
ments in parks. There are at present over 600
acres of playing fields in and outside the county,
plus the equivalent of 800 acres in London parks.
An additional 1,000 acres have already been ac-
quired in the Green Belt and another 1,400 acres
in London are expected when the plan takes effect.

 

Don't buy until you see our tree. illustrated catalog. Write Taluy!

WM

sports equipment co.

FOND DU LAC, WISCONSIN L
IlMO'T ll. tug! manna.‘

      

RECREATION

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

‘ Recently Received Containing Articles "of l
1 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Children’s Religion, September 1947
Glass Jar Gardens, Verna 'Grisier McCully

The Crippled Child, August 1947
Camp for City Kids, Mrs. Blanch Mulder

Sunset, September 1947
When the Yard Belongs to Johnny and Mary

Parks and Recreation, September 1947

Community Outdoor Theatre Planning, A. F. Lindberg
Oakes Garden Theatre, John 'Oakes
The Maintenance Mart

Shore and Beach, April 1947
Beach Preservation Laws and Programs

The American City, August. 1947
Swimming Pools as War Memorials, Wesley Bintz

Beach and Pool, August 1947

Successful Chlorination of Pool \Vater, R. N.
Perkins

The Nation’s Schools, August 1947
Secondary Schoolhouse Planning

Parents Magazine

Things 3 Child Can Make and D0, Rhoda W.
Bacmeister

Backyard Sergeant, Rosalind Bacon Hall

Youth Serves the Community, Mary Dabney

Journal of Living, September 1947
Why Not Try Music? Ruth Brindze

PAMPH LETS

Youth Figured Out, by John E. Robbins (A statistical

study of Canadian yout’h) ‘
Canadian Youth Com-mission, 245 Cooper Street,
Ottawa, Canada. $.50

United We Play

American Junior Red Cross, Southeastern Pennsy1~
vania Chapter, Philadelphia, Pa.

Chicago’s Teen Age Canteens, compiled by James \V.
' Gilman

Youth Service Committee, Rotary Club of Chicago,
156 N. Clark Street, Chicago, Ill. $.50

World Minority Problems, by James G. Leyburn

Public Affairs Committee, Inc., 22 East 38th Street,
New York 16, N. Y. $.20

Camp Leadership Training Institutes
Springfield College, Springfield,,Mass.

Introduction to Camp Leadership (Syllabus)
Springfield College, Springfield, Mass.

State Parks and Related Recreational Areas
National Park Service, Washington, D. C.

Toward Professional Standards

American Association of Group Workers, 134 East
56th Street, New York 22, N. Y. $1.50

City Plan, Idaho Falls, Idaho

S. R. DeBoer and Co., 515 E. Ilifi Avenue, Denver,
Colorado

Youth Services in Kern County
California Youth Authority, Sacramento, California

OCTOBER 1947

     
   
   
   
    
  
   

DIAMOND

SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a
good shoe.
’ 0

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outtits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

D IAMON D CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN. _

NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

(OCTOBER 13-17, 1947)
HOTEL NEW YORKER

ma:
BUUIH

FINGER PAINTING
JEWELRY
LEATHERCRAFT
METALCRAFT .
PLASTICS
STENCILING
TOOLS

WEAVING
WOOD BURNING
WOOD CARVING

ART MATERIALS
BASKETRY
BLOCK PRINTING
BOOKS
BRAIDING
CERAMICS

- CORK

o CRAFTSTRIP

o ETCHING

o FELT

Manufacturers and distributors of

quality  art and craft supplies.

Vt
Giannini/u  (ll COMPANY. INC.

45-49 50. HARRISON ST.. EAST ORANGE. NEW JERSEY

Keep Fit

In an Ancient Manor

By EDWARD J. MACDONALD

ISITORS to this medieval manor house in Eng-

land think of Mark Twain when they see ball

games on the lawns by the river and indoors
watch modern dancing in the ballroom or young
men and women in shorts assembling for meals
where Knights Templar met in chapter approxi-
mately 700 years ago.

The manor house, Bisham Abbey on the banks
of the Thames, with its twelfth century hall. has
been put to modern use as the first national recre-
ation center of the Central Council of Physical
Recreation in Britain.

Bisham Abbey, built originally in semi-monastic
style by the Knights Templar, who were founded
to protect pilgrims to the Holy Land, was partly
rebuilt in the sixteenth century as a manor house.
Its present owner has lent it to the council as a
memorial to her two nephews who would have

inherited it but who were killed in World War II.
Here young people spend their annual holidays

under the guidance of expert leaders who show,

them the finer points of boxing, rowing, gymnas-
tics, swimming, football if they are
boys, the best forms of keep-fit ex—
ercises, river sports, tennis, hockey,
netball or dancing if they are girls.
Here, too, members of youth or-
ganizations enjoy special courses
which give them an all-around
knowledge of sports and other forms
of physical recreation, and enable
them on return to instruct others.

Ends and Aims

There is nothing haphazard or
arbitrary about the courses given
at Bisham Abbey. They all form
part of a scheme for coaching that
eliminates the boredom of ordi-
nary physical training exercises and
substitutes simple rhythmic move-
ment and sports particularly valu-
able to physical training. In addi—

356

tion, courses are given for industrial welfare of-
ficers who learn what sports and exercises correct
faults due to prolonged standing at work or repeti-
tive actions required by mass production, and who
learn also the best method of lifting heavy weights
and the types of exercises that are best calculated
to increase general fitness and alertness, thus re—
ducing the danger of accidents.

The success of the first year’s work at Bisham
Abbey has encouraged the Central 'Council of
Physical Recreation to experiment in other ways.
This spring the council's national sports develop-
ment fund is being inaugurated in London to
finance similar recreation centers within easy
reach of all large centers of population, to con—
tinue experiments in industry and to promote the
exchange of information and visits with“ similar
organizations and with individuals in other coun‘
tries throughout the world.

Founded in 1935 under Royal patronage and
with a membership representative of 84 leading
British sports organizations, the central council
has worked in close cooperation with government
departments “to promote the mental and physical
well—being of the community.” Recognizing the aid
it can bring to education, the ‘Ministry of Educa-
tion awards an annual grant of about $250,000 to
the council, which received a further grant during
the war-from the Ministry of Labor to assist the
council’s work in industry.

RecreationmEducation

The educational aspect of the council’s activities
has taken on increased importance since 1944—

 

Courtesy Hereword Phillip: Ltd.

RECREATION

 

for, with the passing of the new Education Act,
many facilities can be provided under official
auspices for those who have passed the former
school-leaving age. This means that high quality
coaching, once reserved to college students and
professionals, is now available to anyone who
wishes to take advantage of it.

As a 'result, those who watch major football,
boxing or other matches have a liner appreciation
of the skill they see diSplayed. More important is
the fact that young people develop a keenness for
playing themselves.

The secret of success lies in this: that, so far
from attempting compulsion in the training of
young people, the Central Council of Physical Rec—
reation, working through 11 regional centers and
through many voluntary youth organizations in
the.c0untry, provides opportunity which brings
about demand. There is nothing of the parade—
ground about the exercises taught. Indeed there is
a positive emphasis on the advantage, say, of ball-
room dancing as an all-round form of exercise
over the "knee-bend” style of training described
in the British schoolroom as “physical jerks”
( physical training).

If the taste of the modern Briton is for moun-
taineering or camping, canoeing, boxing, wrestling,
football, cricket or netball he or she will find that
each has its place in the courses given by the cen-
tral council. Today there are 157 constituent or-
ganizations, with a membership ranging from the
national governing bodies of athletics, football and
cricket to those of table tennis and the now popular
sport of bicycle polo.

It seems likely that a sports display covering a
wide range of pastimes will be presented as an
additional attraction during the Olympic Games
in London next year.

 

 

headquarters for

GYM M

         
 
   

   
   

    

, .   1-! % t  g ;
“’2 é " Ag“  
at: s (an; lug; Ifllus ratedgatalogzzwnte'Today! "
i ' r 3‘ f' f-  2 '
‘9 . ‘ i‘ .i i 'f i: i

   

OCTOBER 1947

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
      
       
  

In every lield of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
mark of quality and unvarying
performance.

   :::":‘.::

lulu-loo Io o o
at on a-n' .5" lo! I 0‘ -

F‘NFIHHATI Is, OHIO U. i. A.

I “I

    

for
livery Sport!

Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

     
    
  
    

       

 

MANUFAC'UIING COMFAN' o 5'. IODIS 3. MO.

358

A leprechaun, according to Irish legend, is
a dwarf who keeps a pot of gold hidden
away.

If you can catch a leprechaun, your
troubles are over.

Because he keeps his gold just for ran-
som money. If you catch him, he’ll quickly
tell you where his gold is, so you’ll let him go.

The best place to look for” a leprechaun
is in the woods. They’re green, and only
about nine inches tall, so you’ll have to—

Or maybe you don’t believe in lepre-
chauns.
Maybe it would be more practical to just

keep working for your money. But you can
learn one good lesson from these little fellows.

 

A small pot of gold put to one side is a
great help when trouble catches you.

And there’s a much faster and easier way
to get your pot of gold than by catching
leprechauns.

‘ You can buy U. S. Savings Bonds through
an automatic purchase plan.

If you're employed you can sign up for
the Payroll Savings Plan. If you have a
bank account you can sign up for the Bond-
A-Month Plan.

Either way, your pot of gold just saves
itself, painlessly and automatically.

And your money increases one third every
ten years. That would make a leprechaun
turn even greener with envy.

Save the easy,aufomafio way. wifh U. S. Savings Bonds

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

 

RECREATION

 

Books Received

 

Footnotes on Nature, by John Kieran. Doubleday Doran,
Inc., Garden City, New York. $3.00

Junior-Hi Kit No. 4, edited by Clyde Allison. The VVest-
minster Press, Philadelphia, Pa. $2.50

Massage in Athletics, -by Albert J. Baumvgartner. Burgess
Publishing Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota. $2.25

.llore Fun with Puzzles, 'by Joseph Leeming. J. B. Lip-
pincott, Philadelphia, Pa. $2.50

Official Football Guide 1947. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York, N. Y. $.50 .

Problems of Child Delinquency, by Maud A. Merrill.
Houghton Miiilin Co., Boston, Mass. $3.50

Robert Schumann and Mascot Zif, by Opal Wheeler. E.
P. Dutton and 'Co., Inc., New York, N. Y. $2.75

For Rural Teachers—Creative art workshops
for rural teachers are conducted by the University
of Nebraska under a grant of $6,000 from the
Carnegie Corporation. Each workshop offers three
hours of lectures on local art resources and differ-
ent techniques and demonstration of the use of ma-
terials. In addition, there is a three hour laboratory
period in which the teacherscan practice painting,
clay modeling, finger painting, design, stenciling,
handcraft and any of the several kinds of creative
arts included in the workshop program.

“MAD OR MUDDLED”
196 pages, red silk cloth, $2.00

"Calculated to rock the chairs of educators from coast
to coast,” Boston Herald. “Mad or Muddled is worth
anybody’s time to read, consider and possibly tear their
hair in extreme perplexity,” Carl Sandburg.

THE CONTINUING BATTLE
For the Control of the Mind of Youth

168 pages, red silk cloth, $1.50

"An arresting document which parents would do Well
to read and ponder upon,” Neal O’Hara, Boston Traveler.
“Marked by Chestertonian provocativeness and Mencken-

ian vigor, by simultaneous use of rapier and bludgeon,”
A. M. Schlesinger, Harvard.

Handbook of Private Schools

. The above are the Introductions to the last two edi-
tions. The 30th edition, 1072 pages, red silk cloth, $6.00,
critically describcs Private Schools. "It gives concise and
critical information about each of the thousands of schools
it discusses,” New York Sun.

“WAR AND EDUCATION,” 512 pages, black vel—
lum, $4.00; “BETWEEN Two WARS.” The Fail—
-ure of Education 1920-1940,” 615 pages, black
morocco cloth, $5.00; “THE FUTURE OF EDUCA-
TION,” 256 pages, red silk cloth, $2.00.

Write for Circulars and Table of Contents of
these and other volumes still available, and
announcements of forthcoming books.

PORTER SARGENT

11 Beacon Street Boston 8, Mass.

OCTOBER 1947

A Cordial Invitation

is extended to all Recreation Officials to

visit our exhibit of BURKE-BUILT Play-

ground Equipment at the National Recrea—
tion Congress in New York City.

'0
THE J. E. BURKE COMPANY
Fond du Lac, Wisconsin

and AWARDS

S 42 10” Beautiful Sunray
cup on polished bake—
lite base .......... ..$ll.25

D53 F 8” Trophy, lus—
trous black plastic base
Sunray figure and en—
graving plate. Avail-
able for all major

sports ................ "$315 0

W rite for free illustrated catalogue

FRED C. ROSE CO.

706 GRAND AVE. (Dept "R") KANSAS CITY 6, MISSOURI

 

Publications Available
in the field of

RECREATION

0 Recreation —-- An Essential Community
Service. Official Recreation Platform.
4 pp. 5c.

0 Recreation for Everybody. How to plan
for community recreation, 16 pp. 15c.

0 Recreation as a Profession. No. 4 in
Vocational Guidance Series.
4 pp. 5c.

Order from the

1

American Association forHealtl'I.

Physical Education, and Recreation l

l20l lbth Street, NWI
Washington 6, D. C.

Discounts on quantity lots

 

359

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Sacred Choruses tor Women's or
Girls' Voices

Compiled and arranged by Hugh Ross. G. Schirmer Inc.,
New York, $1.50.
THE 25 NUMBERS in this collection are designed to pro-

vide a varied and substantial group of arrangements
for the use of women’s and girls’ choruses. TO meet as
general needs as possible, the scores avoid severe choral
difficulties and consequently, the voice ranges are limited.
This means that alto singers will rarely have to descend
very low nor soprano singers mount above the staff,
except in occasional climactic passages.

Represented in the collection are many types of sacred
music, with examples from medieval to modern times.
Composers included are Dvorak, Cesar Franck, Rameau,
Handel, Rossini, Schubert, Mozart, Charpentier, and a
few others. In each case melody, words and full piano
accompaniment are provided.

This Is Photography

By Thomas H. Miller and Wyatt Brummitt. Garden

City Publishing Company, Inc., New York. $2.00.
THE “MEANS” OF PHOTOGRAPHY—processes and equip-

ment for taking pictures—and the “ends” of photo—
graphy—better photographs—are complex but intriguing
subjects. Thomas H. Miller, Eastman Kodak supervisor
of employee photographic training, and‘Wyatt Brummitt,
writer and editor for the Eastman Company, have writ-
ten a book that will interest anyone who has ever made
pictures and who wants to learn more about the how’s
and why’s of photography. This book is not a condescend-
ing primer or an overwhelming collection Of technicali-
ties. It offers the fundamentals of photography in an
informal, instructive style with plenty of illustrations and
emphasis on the personal approach. You and your camera,
tricks .of the trade, enlarging, making the most of color
photography, taking and processing pictures and what to
do with them afterwards are just a preview of the very
wide range of photographic tOpics discussed.

America's Stamps

By Maud and Miska Petersham. The Macmillan Com-
pany, New York. $3.50.
AMERICA’S STAMPS is the story of one hundred years of
United States postage stamps. It is not a stamp
catalogue, but a pictorial literature of American history—
the story of our country’s struggles for survival and de-
velopment as shown by its stamp issues. Stamps on letters
carried by the pony express riders, Confederate stamps
of 1861-64, the stamp commemorating Lind'bergh’s first
nonstOp flight from New York to Paris, the air mail
stamp of 1946—they’re all included. The important
dramatic stories behind stamps, tales of why and when
they were issued and reproductions of the stamps com-
plete this beautifully illustrated recOrd.

360

Acrobatics tor All

By Erwin F. Beyer. The University of Chicago Press,
Chicago, Illinois. $3.00.

IF YOUR ARDOR FOR ACROBATICS has ever been dampened

by an uncomfortable fall or by lack-of-balance—out-of-
position results, you will welcome this opportunity to learn
acrobatics safely and correctly. Acrobatics for All pro-
vides basic, safe instructions for the attainment of gym-
nastic skill. Every stunt is accompanied ‘by step-by-step
photographs and detailed descriptions of the important
role of the “spotter”——the assistant who stands by to
prevent injury to the performers. Part I of this book
offers the reader instructions in the development of an
acrobatic repertoire of basic acrobatic movements' and of
beginning, intermediate and advanced couple movements.
Part II explains how exhibition routines can be de-
veIOped and presents the author’s assembly-line technique
of teaching whereby members of a group may all prac-
tice at the same time.

Community Wise

By Edna H. Porter. The Womans Press, 600 Lexington
Avenue, New York. 75 cents.

THIS IS A VERY HANDY loose leaf, pocket-siZe notebook

for lay and professional educational, religious and
social workers to record from time to time the infoma-
tion they gather about the community in which they work.
It is not a survey outline. It makes possible a runnin
inventory of a community and the recording of impres-
Sions of the worker as well as the bare physical facts
gathered. Sources of information are given and a small
supply of blank sheets included fOr use as needed.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT \VOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, re.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER. Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fltchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V HICKox, Michigan Clty’, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. AMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. IRBY, New York, N. Y.

SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Au sta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, oodburyi N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. _. _
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San FrancISco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH. New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. VVINANT, Concord, N. H.

RECREATI o

 

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

October. November. December

Tuscaloosa, Alabama
October 6-10

Pantex, Texas
October 27—31

Borger, Texas
November 10-14

Fort Worth, Texas
November 17-21

Clovis, New Mexico
November 24-28

Goose Creek, Texas
December 8—12

Waco, Texas
December 15—19

Evergreen, Alabama
October 6-10

Maryland
October 20—24

Maryland
November 3-7

Maryland
November 17-21

Vermont
December 1-12

Charlottesville, Va.
October 6-10

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
October 20-24

Omaha, Nebraska
October 27-31

Topeka, Kansas
November 3-4

Kansas City, Missouri
November 5-7

St. Louis, Missouri
November 10-21

J eiIerson County, Mo.
November 24-28

Grand Forks, N. D.
December 1-3

St. Joseph, Mo.
December 8-12

Mobile, Alabama
September 29-October 10

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
October 20—24

Oak Ridge, Tenn.
November 3-7

Chattanooga, Tenn.
November 10-21

Charlottesville, Va.
October 6—10

Lancaster, Pa.
October 27—31

Galesburg, Illinois
November 3-28

Peoria, Illinois
December 1-12

J. H. Hadley, Superintendent of Education

Cornelia Lee, Project Services Advisor
Housing Authority of the City of Amarillo

G. K. Vaughn, Superintendent of Recreation

R. D. Evans, Superintendent of Recreation
215 W. Vickery Boulevard

Ian D. Mactavish, Executive Director
Housing Authority of City of Clovis,

P. O. Box 589

Dan Stallworth, Secretary—Director
Tri-Cities Amateur Athletic Federation

John Morrow, Superintendent of Recreation
610% Columbus Avenue

H. G. Pate, Superintendent of Schools
Conecuh County

Miss Ethel Sammis, State Department of Education
Baltimore, Maryland

Miss Ethel Sammis
Miss Ethel Sammis

Mrs. A. O. Brun-gardt, Director of Recreation
State House, Montpelier

Mrs. Imogene M. Bunn, 800 Anderson Street

Rockwood Jenkins, Executive Director
Lincoln Center

Ralph McClintock, Superintendent, Parks and
Recreation, City Hall

C. S. Hettinger, Chairman, Recreation Committee
Council of Social Agencies, Central National Bank

Mrs. Verna Rensvold, Superintendent of Public
Recreation, Department of Welfare, City Hall

A. H. Wyman, Park and Playground Association
613 Locust Street

B. C. Porter, Director of Parks and Recreation

Mrs. Frances Kannowski, Superintendent of Parks
Board of Park Commissioners

Leland Becraft, Executive Secretary
Council of Social Agencies

R. A. Nebrig, Superintendent of Recreation

Rockwood Jenkins, Executive Director
Lincoln Center

T. R. Jarrell, Director of Recreation

Miss Ruth Hale Bird, Superintendent of Recreation

Mrs. Imogene M. Bunn, 800 Anderson Street

Mrs. Ruby Payne, Crispus Attucks Center
407-11 Howard Street

William Jackson, Director, Carver Community
Center, Depot and Berrien Streets '

Henry Harper, Executive Director
George Washington Carver Association, Inc.,
715 Spencer Street

dip- '—

  
 
 
    
      
 

“EDUCATION may produce citizens ap-

preciative of and loyal to democracy In 1-
without becoming agencies of indoctrination.
Education must equip the young to my c.
the culture as well as to pass on the culq

Education must lead to conviction a_ ' - “‘1: I‘

‘1' I

rather than inert nutralilty.”

4.5.1:.wa '_
Cl :1 m -l _

  

