 

Contents

 

October 1948

On the Playing Fields of the World
(Editorial), by Howard Braucher. . . 239

Charles Evans Hughes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290

Wildlife Conservation,
by James Ford Bell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

In the Dark of the Moon
Won’t They Spill Cider?,

by John Higgins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Solving a Halloween Problem,

by Joseph Brislin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Under the Witch’s Spell . . . . . . . . . . . 303

Flying Squadrons, by Betty Redwine. . . 304

Hobbies—There’s a Story There,
by Dorothy Martin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305

Philosophy of a Park System,
by Robert Moses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306

Jacksonville, by Nathan L. Mallison

(American Cities in Recreation Series,

Part II) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 310

Rural Recreation, by David J. DuBois. . 320

Let Radio Sell Your Program,
by Mrs. Robert T. Whitaker . . . . . . . 322

Minnie Wagner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 325

In the Field . . . John W. Faust . . . . . . . 327
An Intellectual Heritage,

by Morris Kellerman . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Looking Ahead . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

Cooperative Planning

Town Builds a Park in One Day,
by W. L. Ware . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293

Cooperative Planning, by Wade Hawkins 295
They Bowl Cut-Rate, by Rose D. Meyer. 318

Regular Features

\Vorld at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317

Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323

Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . . 324

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 333

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335

Recreation Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: Harris and Ewing,
New York, for photograph, page 290; Davis Photos, Azusa,
California, pages 293-294; Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S.
Department of Intcrior, page 299; Dennison Manufacturing

Company, Framingham, Massachusetts, pages 300-301; NYSPIX
—Commerce Department, Albany, New York, page 308; A. C.
Keily, Birmingham, Alabama, page 317; Charles Martin, Detroit
News, Michigan, pages 318-319; Fabian Bachrach, page 327.

 

 
   
     
 

ON THE COVER: A Halloween pumpkin comes to life as
youngsters prepare for an evening of witching fun and ghostly

thrills. Photograph by Ewing Galloway of New York City.

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association. formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. N. Y.; is on tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-

class matter June 12, 1929. at the Post Odice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1948. by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S.A.

VOLUME FORTY-Two, NUMBER SEVEN

PRICE 35 CENTS

«@016

 

Recreation

October 1948

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

0n #ze plazth 4W.a{#ze Wade!

\

HE FIRST WORLD WAR stunned some of us.
Unbelievable !

The Second World War found us a little more pre-
pared. VVe were acquiring the habit. But we
had not yet learned our lesson. We were not yet
willing to pay the price in surrender of a part
of national sovereignty to secure world govern-
ment.

The Third World War creeps on apace. Just around
the corner. Only a miracle can prevent it. What
can we do? What can we in the recreation
movement of the world do to prevent it? Have
We any special part to play?

On the relations between Russia and the United
States we in the recreation movement at the
moment can do little or nothing. That is clear.

But, in creating an attitude, deep and pervasive,
of brotherhood—an attitude of good will, of
good cheer, of desire to reach understanding,
of largeness of spirit, of absence of cynicism, of
good sportsmanship, of faith in the world, of
faith in the future—the vision which unites, the
vision of a world in which man finds joy;

And at the same time creating a spirit of courage,
of incisiveness, of unwillingness to be pushed
off the sidewalk by anyone coming along, of
creativeness, of invention in dealing with difli-
cult human situations without war, without
physical force, if possible;

Playgrounds, parks, recreation centers, music cen-
ters, drama centers under leadership
have a place.

The playgrounds and the recreation centers and the
parks assume that this is a livable universe,

That it canbe kept a livable universe,

That all men can live together, can work together.

And yet the playgrounds, the recreation centers as-
sume that honor is a first essential,

That it is not essential that one go on living

But it is essential that as long as one does live, one
keeps honor.

The Duke of Wellington stated that the Battle of
Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton.

0n the playing fields of the world such a degree of
willingness to seek human understanding in the

spirit of brotherhood can be built up—and such

a regard for honor—-

As to make Fourth and Fifth and Sixth World Wars

—mass human world suicide—nothing less than

unthinkable . . .

If true standards of leadership on the playing fields
be maintained.

The recreation leaders in our colleges, in our cities,

throughout the world, do play for the future of
the world.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

289

 

EW ASSOCIATIONS have had such outstanding

help from distinguished world citizens as has
the National Recreation Association. In 1908—
forty years ago—~—the Honorable Charles Evans
Hughes, then Governor of New York, later to be
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States, delivered an address on “Why We Want
Playgrounds” before the AssOciation at the Na—
tional Recreation Congress held in New York
City. This address has been reprinted many times,
has been used in the far parts of the world as well
as throughout the United States, and is repro-
duced below.

Simply, beautifully, clearly, Charles Evans
Hughes points out how fundamental and how im-
portant play is. What he said forty years ago is
just as timely and valuable today. The truly great
thinkers of the world have all agreed on the im-
portance of leisure and recreation in the develop-
ment of the human race.

In the death of Charles Evans Hughes, the rec-
reation movement lost one of its early prophets.

W’hy We Want Playgrounds

I am very glad to have the opportunity to take
part in the spread of the gospel of play. I cannot
hope to say anything which would add to your
instruction. Indeed, I have been amazed in exam—

290

CHARLES
EVANS
HUGHES

ining your program at the specialization which this
field affords. I congratulate you upon what has
been accomplished. As the fruit of your study and
research we may be sure that there will not only
be playgrounds, but progress, as well, along intel—
ligent lines.

The successful worker must have the spirit of
play in his heart, and the successful man is only
a boy with a man’s experience. He must have the
zest, the devotion, the spirit of comradeship, the
capacity for self—forgetfulness, the boy’s wholesome
outlook upon life, if he is to do a man’s work in
the world. How are we to save civilization from
being caught in its own toils? How are we to pre-
serve childhood from being too early drawn into
the contests of life? How are we, in our great
urban population, to make possible the spirit of
play, the opportunities for childish sports which
are essential to the development of normal man-
hood and womanhood? To 'the solution of. that
problem you are devoting your study with no little
measure of success already. attained. I cannot aid
you by experience or suggestion, but I bid you
Godspeed from the bottom of my heart.

We want play—simply play——for the children of
our great cities. Those who are fortunate enough
to live in the country have, in their own homes, the
playground. The orchard, the meadow, the brook,
the swimming pool, the nearby wood, constitute
the never-failing source for gratifying the appe-
tites, the normal appetites, of childhood in the
country. And with what feeling akin to despair
do we look upon the growing thousands teeming
in the congested quarters of our cities, with the
slight oppOrtunities of the roadway to take the
place of the open country!

We do not think of them in the early years
alone, but we look fOrward to the time when they

- come to play the parts of men and women in the

RECREATION

world, and we wonder what is to be the future. Is
their experience of life merely to be that of the
hard taskmaster, the struggle for bare existence?
Is the growing feeling of discontent to be accentu-
ated and increased because of this state of abnor-
mal deprivation? _

We want playgrounds for children in order that
we may conserve the health of our people. A great
deal is being done in these days to protect us
against the spread of disease. We are fighting
with intelligence and with new-found zeal the
great white plague, but the dread disease of tuber-
culosis must be successfully fought by developing
stamina, physical strength, through exercise in all
the physical activities. We must nourish that
strength in childhood. We do not want simply
hospitals and pavilions, and notices giving instruc-
tion to those who are unfamiliar with necessary
precaution. YVe want to save the health of our
children, so that we may nurture a strong, well-
favored community. That is the surest way to
stamp out disease. If we were thinking of nothing
but the preservation of health and the proper func-
tion of government in protecting against the un-
necessary exposure of the people to infection and
the inroads of disease, we would make it one of
our first objects to secure adequate playgrounds
for children in the free air, and give them oppor-
tunities of recreation not afforded by their over-
crowded abodes.

W'e want playgrounds for children to conserve
the morals of the people. There may be some who
look upon human nature as hopelessly debased
and beyond recall, as exhibiting here and there
extraordinary illustrations of spasmodic virtue—
virtue in spite of tendency. We have, alas! too
frequent illustrations of the weakness of humanity.
We are all conscious of the pull downward, but
the pull upward is far more powerful, and that is
the reason we are, in the twentieth century, under
free government with its benediction of prosperity.
We want to help that pull upward. It would be a
very wise man who could sever from environment
and association and unnecessary temptation the
tendencies to evil, and say how much they are
responsible and how much is due to innate vice.

My opinion is that the average boy is a good
boy and the average girl is a good girl. I believe
that the average man and woman would rather do
right than wrong; I have a profound confidence in
the capacity of human nature to seize that which
is good, to hold true to its ideals with a progress
that is spiral, but none the less onward, always
pressing to humanity’s goal.

’We have many unfortunate occurrences. We

OCTOBER 1948

are constantly lamenting the continuance of this
abuse or that error, but we are gathered together
in this country because of our confidence in the
good judgment, the good sense, the right intention
of the average man. If it were not for that, we
could not expect to maintain free institutions.
Now. knowing this makes for a reduction of un—
necessary temptations, it makes it more easy to
have wholesome living. It gives normal youth a
fair chance for gratifying normal appetites. It is a
safeguard of the country and of the institutions of
our government.

The best way to train a boy to do right is not
to lecture him into tears about his wrongdoing,
but to showliim the delight of an honorable and
happy boyhood. It is to give him opportunity to
prove what is in him in good works. And the
good will'always, in the main, with exceptions that
only prove the rule, prove to be the greater attrac-

' tion. Boyhood and girlhood must have a vent in

play. It is natural; it is right.

This country of ours has grown up nourished
by youth who came from the country. We have
reenforced our cities with the best blood of the
rural communities Where boyhood and girlhood
have had a chance. The mothers of the country,
the mothers of the men that have made the coun-
try, have had girlhoods and decent opportunities;
and the boys, with their love of nature and their
opportunities in the happy, careless, outdoor life,
have developed a strength that, in these strenuous
days, has enabled them to bear the burdens of
statesmanship. We cannot, as our population be-
comes congested, keep men good by force. That
is the old, mistaken, unsuccessful effort of despot-
ism—a few with the advantages keeping the many
good, obedient, docile by force. You cannot suc-
ceed on that line in a free country. Men must be
their own policemen, and the conscience of each
must be the guardian of the safety of all. Some
say we must train in our 'great cities those who
have had none of the chances which the fathers of
our country enjoyed, to know and love the right.
How are we going to do it? The schools are all
right, but there is little that you can do by explicit
teaching. Moral consciences are all right, but
there is a certain .point beyond which you cannot
expect receptivity. If a boy or girl is to take easily
to moral instruction, to listen readily to the voice
of conscience, he or she must have a wholesome
life. A few hours in the fresh air, a few hours of
self-abandon in innocent fun,,a chance to be a
normal boy or girl will do more to reenforce your
moral lessons than many, many days of mere
teaching. Thus the playground will be, without

291

any direct effort, one of the regenerating and up-
lifting forces of the community. The ordinary
man, if he has a chance to live a decent life, will
live it; and if you want good men and women in
the world, devote your efforts to a large degree in
removing those obstacles which are in the way of
decent, virtuous, wholesome life. i

We want playgrounds in order that we may aid
in the development of the sentiment of honor. I
do not know of any better way to teach the boy to
be honorable and straight than to give him a
chance to play with his'comrades. In the play-
ground he learns it without any suggestion of
rebellion against instruction and precept and
preaching. He learns it because he does not want
anybody else to cheat him, and he is “down” on
the boy who does not want to play fair. And in
the long run, because he is “down” on the boy

who does not play fair, he will establish standards ‘

of conduct which we must maintain in the commu—
nity and particularly in our great cities. If there
is one thing that we need more than another it is
the constant emphasis among our citizens on that
spirit of fair play, that willingness to give and
take, that generosity in defeat and that lack of
assertiveness in victory which we identify with
true sport, and which is learned best of all in child-
hood upon the playground.

Now, I do not know that by the work of play-
grounds we mean necessarily the development of
particular forms of athletic sports. I am not an
expert in the matter. You may have other ideas.
I confess that I do not like to see any strenuous
athletic contests except on the part of those who
are trained for such contests; then I do like to see
them. I do not think it is necessary to turn boys
who have not had training and the requisite hard—
ening into the hardest kind of sport with a strain
of anxiety and overeffort, merely to encourage
play. We also want, it seems to me, to have the
science so perfect that -no 'one will see the science.
We do not want routine and schedules and a train—
ing which smack of a playground congress. We
Want just fun for boys and girls—with an absence
of self-consciousness and an opportunity for cheer—
ful self—abandonment, with genuine interest, with
every variety of diversion that science can suggest,
but with the stimulus to the same feeling that the
happy country boy finds when he goes whistling
to nature’s playgrounds.

Now, I am glad, as I have said before, that so
much is being done in these directions, and aston-
ished at the prospect which is unfolded by your
deliberations. It is another proof of the fact that
if you get below the surface of anything—no mat-

292

teruwhat it is—you will find a field for the study
of a life—time. You have a rich field here. How it
makes one’s heart ache to go through the crowded
quarters of the city! During the last few weeks I
have been going through the upper part of the
State, the beautiful, beautiful State of New York,
of which I grow fonder every day. I have seen
the rare beauty of hill and dale, the charming
countryside and the great mountains, and the de-
lights of lake and stream; and then turn from this
to the great metropolis with its wonderful statistics
of commerce, its wealth beyond the dreams of
avarice, its great prosperous population, and, at the
same time, with a population of so many who are
denied the opportunities that we want‘ every broth-
er man to have.

We cannot make society over. If there is any—
body here who is indulging in the dream that you
can have administration that takes no account of
human nature, go on with your dream, my friend,
but it is only a dream. There will be no change in
human nature, and nothing can be done govern-
mentally in a successful way that does not take
account of the laws of progress; but, on the other
hand, we can do a great deal more than we are
doing, and there is not any reason in the world
why we should not give the youth of our great
cities a fair chance. We are going to do it, and I
am grateful for this aid in that effort which prom-
ises so much—not only for our cities, but because
of our interdependence, for the country as a whole.

Congratulations!

IT IS NOW fifty years since the American Institute
of Park Executives was founded. The National
Recreation Association leaders at this time wish
to record the satisfaction they have had in work-
ing so closely with the Institute leaders for -more
than forty of these years.

In the early days of the Association much help
was received from the rich experience of George
Parker of Hartford, and Theodore Wirth of Min-
neapolis. For many years the Association has
turned to Will Doolittle and many other park
leaders.

A number of the Association staff, such as Har-
old Lathrop and Will Hay, have come out of the
park movement. Association workers, such as
Lebert H. Weir, James B. Williams and others,
have been active in the Institute. Through the
years there has been a fine spirit of good will.

The leaders in the Association extend to the

leaders in the Institute their best wishes for the
next fifty years.

RECREATION

h

“A remarkable transformation
accomplished by teamwork”

TOWN BUILDS A PARK IN ONE DAY

W. L. Ware

i HE MORNING 0F Sunday, April 4th, 1948, a
four-acre tract of the San Gabriel riverbed at
Azusa, California, was a waste of rocks and gravel.
At sundown, that day, the same tract was Azusa
Memorial Park, a recreation playground, land-
scaped with seventy large trees, well-rolled walks,
picnic grills, pergolas, tables and modern play-
ground equipment.

This remarkable transformation was accom-
plished by the teamwork of the Rotary, Kiwanis,
Civitan, Twenty-Thirty Service Club, the Cham-
ber of Commerce, American Legion, Veterans of
Foreign Wars, National Guard, Police and Fire
Departments, and several hundred citizens, men
and women, who donned working clothes and la—
bored all day to complete their project—“Build A
Park In A Day.”

Rock, gravel, cement, lumber, heavy grading
equipment, rollers and trucks were donated by
local building material concerns and contractors
whose employees never worked harder or more
cheerfully in their lives, with no thought of hours
or pay.

Charles Shelton, chairman of the Chamber of
Commerce Civic Development Committee, was
one of the spark plugs on this job. He was ably
assisted by the presidents of all the other organiza-
tions, and committees of community leaders.

Cornelius Smith, manager of the Chamber of
Commerce, took us out to the new park to show
us what community cooperation accomplished in
his town in one day. It was a revealing sight.
Hundreds of little folks were playing in the great
sandbox and on the swings, bars and slides
throughout the park.

One of the great moments, so far as the young-
sters were concerned, was the arrival of members
of the Azusa Fire Department escorting a great

OCTOBER 1948

 

Club women set out shrubs near
pergolas; served meals to workers.

shiny fire truck which was donated to the park by
the Los Angeles Fire Department.

Running under its own power, the great truck
was installed in its new firehouse which had been
completed but a few minutes previously. The
Azusa Fire Department now sponsored “Kids’
Fire Department Number I.” The 1923 fire truck
had been retired to playground use and the boys
and girls swarmed over that machine. It is the
most popular of all the equipment in the new park.

Each service_ club took on a specific job. Civitan
built the great grill in six hours; Kiwanis built
playground “equipment and assembled the many
fine swings, bars and slides they had furnished for
the park; Rotary planted the seventy large trees;
Twenty-Thirty built the picnic and luncheon ta-
bles; Veterans of Foreign Wars and American
Legion raised the funds for and helped plant trees.
Drinking fountains were installed by the city.

Azusa merchants contributed hundreds of
pounds of meat. Bakers furnished all the bread
and rolls needed. Coca-Cola bottling works at
Pasadena sent over a truck of their beverage, free
to all who cared to pause for a cool drink.

As rapidly as the picnic tables were put up,
church and club women took over the job of feed—
ing the hungry workers, serving more than a thou-
sand fine meals during the day.

Organization and Timing

Each step in this undertaking was carefully
planned. Every club and every man knew exactly
what was to be done and when. The materials for
each job arrived on time. There was no waiting
or lost motion during the entire day. No worker
had to go home for his tools.

Officials estimate that more than $7,000 was
contributed in material and labor during this day.

293

Music and entertainment were all contributed.
Dozens of committee meetings were held to blue—
print every phase of the undertaking.

At seven in the morning the materials and heavy
equipment arrived at the site. At eight the work-
ers were all there and “Park Day” was in full
swing. Before the sun dropped over the top of the
Sierra Madre Mountains, the job was done.

Blistered, sunburned, but satisfied, the tired
Workers gathered up their tools and left several
hundred happy children enjoying the result of
their labors.

Chamber of Commerce and service club officials
say that this community effort did much -more
than to build a recreation park for the kiddies; it

 

Children love this old fire truck donated as play-
ground equipment by Los Angeles Fire Department.

. V

 

The speed record was established by Civitan Club in
building the huge barbecue. Working time—six hours.

294

i

 

brought all organizations and citizens closer to—
gether than they ever had been previously.
Leadership by the officers of these various
groups and their committees brought forth a high
degree of interest and cooperation. The citizens
of Azusa_now know that there is nothing they can-
not accomplish for their town by cooperative effort.
Nestling at the foot of the Sierra Madre Moun—
tains, Azusa, with a population of 8,500, is located
twenty—two miles east of Los Angeles in a major
citrus-growing and packing district. The little city
of fine schools, churches and homes is situated on
Highway 66 and the main line of the Santa Fe
Railroad. Its beautiful civic center buildings in-
clude a library and auditorium. '

i“ -& A
~ . at:

m

Musical entertainment kept children out of the way
while grown-ups worked to get the playground built.

 

Rotary club members of Azusa furnished and planted
seventy large trees for the “park built in a day.”

RECREATION

Comprehensive planning of a recreation de-
partment, significant as an example of effec-

Wade Hawkins

tive cooperation of community organizations—

hoth public and private—in doingr a bigger job
than any one of them could accomplish alone.

Geoperative Planning for
Education-Recreation Services

HE FOLLOWING INTERESTING and concise out—

line shows the comprehensive planning used
by Reading, Pennsylvania, in utilizing all of the
services offered by the social, civic, and municipal
agencies for a common objective—higher stand-
ards of education-recreation that will reach every
person in that community. Brief organizational
structure and the ways in which each agency con-
tributes to the total education-recreation picture
of the community are presented.

City Department of Recreation

1. An independent division of the municipal gov-
ernment. ,

2. Board of Recreation is composed of five'mem-
bers of the community, appointed by the mayor,
who select the leadership, determine policy,
and administer the program.

a. According to state law, two of the. members
appointed must be members of the school
board.

3. The department cooperates with fifty different
organizations in planning and conducting a pro-
gram of recreational activities.

4. Present budget allotment from municipal funds
is $59,114.80. Efforts are being made to have
this increased through a proposed referendum
for local taxpayers to vote for increased funds.

The Council of Social Agencies

1. Composed of sixty-one agencies, twenty-four
supported by the Community Chest, the rest
supported by public contributions and taxes.

OCTOBER 1948

2. The Council is divided into three subdivisions:
Health Division; Welfare Division; Recreation
Division.

3. Members of the Recreation Division are: Agri-
cultural Extension Association —4H Clubs;
Boy Scouts; Camp Fire Girls; Department of
Public Recreation; Girl Scout Council; Jewish
Community Center; National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People; Olivet
Boys Club; Pioneer Neighborhood Council;

Reading Public Library; Recreation Board of
Berks County; YMCA; YWCA.

4. Organization of Recreation Division
a. Executive Committee

(1) Does advance planning of the agenda
for the division.

(2) Superintendent of Recreation is a mem-
ber of this committee.

b. Youth Development Committee-wresponsible
for:

(1) Studies of juvenile delinquency.

( 2) Spot-mapping of boys’ and girls’ agen—
cies to denote what geographical areas
are unaffected by the agencies.

(3) A better understanding of each agency’s
program.

(4) A joint leadership training school for
leaders.

(5) A church survey to determine what ac-
tivities the religious groups provide for
their youth.

(6) Division of age. groups and territories
between the YWCA, Y-Teen Depart-

295

ment and the Camp Fire Girls.

(7) Publicity for activities of the member
agencies.

c. Camp Committee

(I) Acts as a clearing exchange on camp
problems among the character-building
agencies.

(2) Disseminates information procured from
other Camp Councils in reference to the
cost of camping, age groups reached,
and so forth.

(3) Camp Council committees for the pur—
pose of research are: personnel; sani-
tation; finance; equipment.

(4) Aids in surveys for local camp facilities.

(5) Christmas Toy Shop of the Council of
Social Agencies—acts as a clearing
house on the rehabilitation of discarded
toys for distribution to needy children.
Conducts one party for children.

Topics Discussed by the
Recreation Division in 1946

I. How can our recreational activities be directed
to express and strengthen the fundamental
values of our democratic nation?

2. Means by which agencies can enlarge their
budgets to combat crime, prostitution, politi-
cal unrest,‘nervous diseases, and to provide
for the time released from occupational work.

3. Enlargement of the professional and voluntary
staffs of the recreational agencies to be pre—
pared for postwar leisure time.

4. Procurement of qualified trained personnel.

5. Emphasis of home play in the development of
home workshops, flower gardens, playrooms,
and fruit and vegetable gardens.

6. Provisions being made for returned veterans.

7. More accurate methods of record-keeping of
participation activities. Attendance figures
should be used in planning summer and winter
programs.

8. Integration of character-building agencies for
more effective results.

9. \Vhat can be done to stimulate activities for
adult recreation?

IO. Advisability of hiring a public relations spe-
cialist for the pr0per presentation of publicity.

II. Study of recreational trends for the future.

12. A self-study survey of how effective programs
are and why they don’t reach certain groups
of persons. A committee of ten persons ap-
pointed to conduct this survey: five profes—
sional members, including the Superintendent
of Recreation, and five lay members.

296

I3. An institute for agencies that are conducting
a summer camp.

I4. Administrative aspects of teen-age centers.

15. Effective measures to promote state and na-
tional recreation legislation.

16. Establishment of a Youth Council. This would
be a Junior Council of Social Agencies, admin-
istration, planning, and policy formulation be—
ing done by the youth of the community.

I7. Does Reading’s future recreational planning
provide for the recreational needs of adjacent
suburban areas?

The school District

I. Policy is directed by a school board which con—
sists of five members, elected by the residents
of the community.

2. Policy of the school district is administered by
the Superintendent of Schools who is appointed
by the school board.

3. The school district functions independently
from the municipal government. .

4. It cooperates to the fullest extent with .the De-
partment of Recreation by: a.) providing free
light, heat, and janitor services for eighteen
buildings which are used for gymnasiums and
community centers; b.) allowing use of thirteen
school playgrounds without cost; c.) furnishing
salaries for three attendants at outdoor swim-
ming pool, the city paying for lifeguard serv—
ices, water, electricity, supplies, and so forth.
The Department of Recreation in turn gives
free use of municipal parks and playgrounds to
the Physical and Health Education Department
of the Public Schools for athletic purposes
under a reciprocal agreement.

The Municipal Government

The following listed departments of the munici-
pal government cooperate with the Recreation De-
partment in the following ways:

I. Park Department— Monetary appropriations
for band concerts and folk dance orchestras;
capital expenditures in construction of new
areas and facilities; maintenance of athletic
areas in public parks.

2. Water Bureau—Maintains athletic areas on
Water Bureau properties; floods rinks for win-
-ter sports on the public skating rinks.

3. Department of Public Safety—Provides lights
and lighting for all activities.

4. Bureau of Police—Provides police escorts for
parades and protection at all large recreation
activities; allocates-street areas for sledding in
the wintertime and rollerskating in the summer.

RECREATION

5. Department of Streets and Highways— Pro—
vides heavy trucks when necessary; constructs
hard surface recreation areas where necessary.

6. City Planning Commission—-—Recommends new
recreation areas; designs and plans new proj—
ects when required.

Interracial Committee

I. Interested in the problems of Negro recreation.
The Superintendent of Recreation is a member
of this committee. _

2. Interested in getting new facilities for Negro
recreation and improving existing facilities.

3. N egro-white relationships throughout city.

The Playground Federation

I. A group of thirty—four neighborhood parent

playground associations. Two representatives
from each association are delegates. Meets four
times a year to discuss the following:
a.) Methods of raising money for new play-
ground equipment, handcraft supplies, picnics
for children, transportation, and all combined
recreational events; b.) ways and means of im-
pressing upon people of the community the
large number of people actually participating in
recreation programs; c.) a handcraft play-
ground model contest; d.) methods of improv-
ing existing local playgrounds and of securing
new areas.

 

The National Park Service

I. The City Recreation Department issues bulle-
tins on the recreational features of the Mt.
Penn and Hopewell Park areas.

The Philharmonic Orchestra

I. Sponsored by the City Department of Recrea—
tion.

2. Consists of nearly one hundred members of all
ages and sexes.

3. Presents community programs without charge.

4. Plans to set up Junior organization in group.

The Council of Civic Clubs

I. Each member of the staff is a member of one

OCTOBER 1948

of the clubs and takes an active part in all their
activities. , .

. Presents programs during regularly scheduled
meetings to bring the attention of club members
to recreational activities.

[0

Greater Reading Council of Churches

I. Interdenominational in character and composi-
tion.

2. Uses the facilities and services of the Recrea-
tion Department in conducting social and ath—
letic programs.

The Reading Music Foundation

I. Privately supported.

2. ProvidesiISeveral free public band concerts on
playgrounds and in the public parks.

3. Superintendent of Recreation is a member of
the Board of Trustees and helps with their
planning.

Other Organizations which have a cooperative
arrangement with the Department of Recreation:

I. The Community Players—a dramatic group.

2. Boy Scout Council—staff members are active
in their affairs. '

3. Izaak W'alton League—conducts bait and fly—
casting tournaments and publishes guides to
fishing areas.

4. County Recreation Board—acts as advisor
when called upon.

5. Reading Times Newspaper—1c00perates and ii-
nances the annual children’s marble tourna—
ment.

6. Municipal Music and Drama Committee—acts
as a clearing house for all music and dramatic
activities in the city.

7. The Recreation Department helps with the
planning, procuring of facilties, conducting of
leagues and tournaments for the following in-
dependent organizations : I
Church Athletic Association; Reading Archery
Club; Industrial Athletic League; Industrial
Golf League; Industrial Bowling League;
Reading Chess Association; Reading Table
Tennis Association; Reading and Berks Chap-
ter of the Penna Guild of Craftsmen; Berks
County Soccer Association; Berks County Ath-
letic Officials Association; Radio Stations——
programs and publicity; Reading Eagle-Times
N ewspapers—feature stories and publicity.

“We tire of those pleasures we take, but never
of those we give.”—Jean Antoine Petit-Senn.

297

Wildlife Conservation

—A Business View * —

T IS SAFE to say that there are definite limita-

tions to the application of business manage-
ment principles to a problem as saturated with
controversy and public interest as is game and fish
conservation. On the other hand, the objectives
are clearly identical. The natural resources of
game and fish, like business, must be managed in
the interests of all the people.

Sportsmen tend to forget that hunting and fish—
ing as we know them are not vested privileges, but
rather an endowed heritage peculiar to America.
In the old world these pleasures originally were
reserved for the nobility and landed gentry, and
ownership of game centered in the crown or the
individual estate. In general this policy continues
there today. In America, thanks to the bounty of
resources and guarantees written into our basic
law, game and fish are controlled by the state in its
sovereign capacity and managed for all its citizens.

The point to be emphasized is that this common
ownership implies a Special obligation as well as
a privilege. Too often Americans shirk their indi-
vidual responsibility for maintaining our game and
fiin supply. This responsibility is best discharged
by providing money adequate to support efficient
management.

To operate a business efficiently, certain stand-
ard procedures must be followed, among them:

1. Accounting and inventory control.

2. Establishment Of production (or sales), quotas.
3. Capitalization, or procurement, Of finances.

4. Agreement on long term operating policy.

Admittedly these are only a few of the many
considerations that must enter into the manage-
ment of a business. But they are fundamental.
Let us consider, briefly, their application to the
management of a complex natural resource such
as our game and fish supply.

ACCOUNTING AND INVENTORY CONTROL. Before
game and fish can be managed, we must know
what we have. Whatever the cost of obtaining

298

James Ford Bell

this information, it must be‘secured accurately and
at timely intervals. Upon it must be based such
decisions as the dates and volume of harvest and
the countless other regulations looking to wise
usage. Our accounting must be standardized on a
pattern that will win the ready acceptance and
confidence of all citizens.

ESTABLISHMENT OF PRODUCTION QUOTAS. What
do we lack, and how much of it? This can be
determined from the inventory. Deficiencies must
be underlined and widely publicized. Action must
follow promptly to build up inventories. This
production Should be budgeted so that manage—
ment will know what it will have to work with in
the future.

CAPITALIZATION 0F FINANCES. Whatever it
costs to maintain our resources on a level to meet
all needs comes under this heading. First of all,
we must see to it that hunting and fishing license
revenues, upon which game and fish depend for
support in some states, are not diverted to other
uses. If the present fees are inadequate, we must
dig down into our pockets and produce enough
money to do the job. It may cost you twenty-five
dollars for an auto license in a given year, yet two
adult residents can fish twelve months on a fee of
one dollar and fifty cents. The expense of game
and fish is the Obligation we must assume for en—
joying it. There is no alternative.

LONG TERM OPERATING POLICY. This really
combines the first three principles. It is to our
advantage that our long range policy of manage-
ment be written for all to see, and that it be re-
vised from time to time according to the dictates
of necessity. In this way we can better “sell” the
plan and the finances needed to carry it. If all the
goals are not attained immediately, they will be

 

*This article appeared in the March-A ril issue of The Con-
servation Volunteqr, official publication 0 the Minnesota Depart-
ment of Conservation.

RECREATION

projected soon in orderly fashion.

There is no broad and smooth highway to a land
teeming with game and fish. To manage a resource
that is annually tapped by some one million Min-
nesotans and visitors is a gigantic task, particu-
larly when, as is now true, we have less than one
dollar to spend each year in management for each
hunter and fisherman who stands to benefit!

One important task of our publicity and infor—
mation should be to point up the necessity for
dedicating more money to the task before us. 'The
needs of education, particularly in the adult field,
should not be overlooked. People must be kept
informed, through constant repetition, of the pro—
gram as it unfolds. But more important, we must
meet the immediate needs of the problem, and in
full. For years, it appears, we have been “wink—
ing” at several pressing conditions, such as the
control of carp in our southern lakes, and the en—
couragement of good upland game management
practices among land owners where birds can be
raised most efficiently in the field. We must be
prepared to pay the price or stand the conse-
quences of a game and fish supply facing slow
exhaustion before ever-increasing hunting and
fishing pressure.

Our good friend Izaak Walton was endowed
with unusual vision. Three hundred years ago he
no doubt had in mind the thousands of self-
appointed “experts” on all things game and fish
when he wrote, “That which is everybody’s busi—
ness is nobody’s business.” Game and fish threat-

0

 

Female mallard, rescued by agents of Fish and Wild-
life Service from illegal trap, being handed. A rec-

ord of each banded bird is kept in Washington, D. C.

en to wither away to “nobody’s business” or to no
business at all if we fail to agree on a production
program supported by a long range plan with ade—
quate finances. The sooner this basic thinking is
accepted, the better.

Whether a sportsman is a conservationist de—
pends on his state of mind. If he decides to be one
-—and it goes without saying that every sportsman
should be——-he can carry out his desire by obeying
the laws, by encouraging compliance from others,
and by cooperating with his conservation depart-
ment at all times. These rules constitute a mini-
mum' personal conservation creed.

‘9

OCTOBER "

October is the clear strong breeze that whips about my hair;

October is the burning leaves and tangy smoke-filled air.

The maple trees all red and gold against the \sky’s deep blue

And shocks of cornstalks in the fields are part of this month, too.

The cider and the apple that I hold within my hand,

The pumpkins splashing spots of orange all about the land,

The quick descent of evening, and the harvest moon above

Combine to make October the one autumn month I love.

OCTOBER 1948

—Iean Mason.

299

 

IN THE DARK

Won’t They Spill Cider?

John Higgins

N 1946 THE Park Board of Elkhart, Indiana,
was enlarged to become the Elkhart Parks and

Recreation Board. The title implied the additional
responsibility of providing recreation for the
33,447 inhabitants of the city. The citizens of
Elkhart were eager and willing to support any
recreation program that the new superintendent
would propose. To take care of their interest, and
to inform them as to what to expect in the future,
a proposed program was drawn up, stating the
aims and objectives of the new department. Hal-
loween is always one of the important days on any
recreation calendar, so considerable space was
given to a proposed Halloween celebration for the
entire city.

In this proposal, certain fundamental rules were
kept in mind: first, that it is best to keep the boys
and girls in their own neighborhood; second, that
all boys and girls are seeking adventure on Octo-
ber 3Ist, and that they want to give expression to
this feeling; third, that if they are not given an
opportunity for self-expression, in keeping with
the season, they will revert to mischievous destruc-
tion to get a' thrill which they feel is rightfully
theirs.

To take care of the first rule which guided our
thinking, that of keeping boys and girls in their
respective neighborhoods, the superintendent of
schools was approached with the idea of using the
ten grade-school buildings for parties. In response,
the usual questions were asked: “Won’t the gym
Hoor be ruined? VVon’t cider be spilled all over
the place? VVon’t there be crowds gathered out-
side who will cause trouble?” They were all legiti—
mate questions and, thanks to past experience,
could be answered. The superintendent called a

300

meeting of all principals, before whom the entire
program was outlined.

The idea presented to this group was that each
school hold a party for the children in its own
building and for any other child or adult in its
community who wanted to attend. These parties
were not to be put on by the teachers, but were
organized and run by the Parent—Teachers Asso-
ciation. The Parks and Recreation Department
furnished cider and apples and twenty-five dollars
for each group sponsoring a party. Cider and ap-
ples were also donated by a nearby fruit grower.
Each Parent-Teachers Association was provided
with suggestions as to how to conduct such a
party. _

Just as anyone would expect, all the principals
did not agree. Many excuses were given, the most
unusual being that “Halloween is un-American,
therefore we should squelch it.” However, one of
the principals had conducted parties for years,
knew that the gym would not be ruined, knew that
everyone would be on the inside of the building
and not on the outside. As a result of his favorable
comments, most of the school principals agreed
to make the experiment.

What has been the result of this city-wide pro-
gram P—tremendous public approval resulting from
the quietest Halloween the city has ever had!

You might say all this sounds similar to an
exclusively grade school affair. That is not true.
Each child of grade school age is attended by his
or her parents. Also, a large downtown party is
held each year at the Y.M.C.A., which has all the
thrills of the other parties, plus a free dance.

The following is a copy of the party suggestions
which were sent to all of the Halloween program

RECREATION

OF THE M 00N

chairmen of the various schools.

Party Suggestions

PURPOSE: To provide the youth of Elkhart with
numerous parties that will give them an opportu-
nity to express, in enthusiastic fun, all the youthful
spirit that fills the air at this particular season of
the year; further, to reduce property damage by
making these parties so exciting that children
would rather attend than spend their time roving
the streets looking for mischief.

1. Arrange your party for individual participation
so that you'can take care of any number of
guests.

2. Create a Halloween spirit by providing as many
thrills as possible.

3. Require costuming as the price of admission.
Give prizes for most original, funniest, best
couple, best impersonation, best witch, and so

forth. Give prizes for parents as well as for
children.

4. Make sure you give the children a scare. This

can be accomplished by developing a room of
thrills.

Have them enter a dark room by crawling
through a small opening, such as a barrel or
by means of a slide. While making their way
through the room they should be required to
crawl under tables or over them, walk on old
bed springs covered with a rug, make their
way over a board which is on a small off-
‘center fulcrum, go through a passage where
there are wet rags hanging from the ceiling
which will hit them in the face. Give them
unpleasant objects to handle (liver, skinned
grapes). All of this can be accompanied with
weird unpleasant noises. (These should sug-
gest Other ideas.)

5. After the costumes have been judged, give the
party a carnival atmosphere by arranging booths

OCTOBER 1948

 

for different activities. The prizes they will re-
ceive for winning will be candy or refreshments.
It is never good to have the youngsters line up
for their refreshments.

6. Suggestions for booths:

(a) Fortune Telling—The fortune teller can have
the subject’s chair wired with electricity to give
him a slight shock.

(b) Crazy VVeight—Each contestant writes his
weight on a blackboard and then steps on
scales. If he comes within three pounds he
wins a prize. Have some way to control the
scales to make them do unusual things.

(c) Sevens—Have two large cubes numbered as
dice and throw them into a large box. If the
numbers add up to seven, a prize is given.

((1) Pin Tail to Donkey—This is an adoption of
the old parlor game, but make the donkey
large.

(e) Keg Fill—Place six nail kegs in a row. Try to
get two softballs into the kegs, out of three
throws.

(f) Colors—An archery target or facsimile can be
placed Hat on the floor. The contestant tosses
a flat, round object (piece of wood or hockey
puck) intending to make it difiicult for an ob-
ject to come to rest on it.

(g) Witch’s Broom—Let the small children have
fun trying to tack some straw on the witch’s
broom while blindfolded.

(h) Paint squares on a slanted surface and let the
contestants throw discs to see if they can land
them completely within the squares.

(i) Bean Bag—Put openings in a clown’s face and
let players throw bean bags through them.

In 1937 thirteen parties were sponsored by the
Parks and Recreation Department. It was esti—
mated that at least 7,000 people attended.

301

HAT RECREATION DIRECTOR or community

Halloween chairman has not had the feeling
that a successful Halloween party has been con-
ducted, only to have cold water dashed on his en-
thusiasm as he walks down Main Street the fol-
lowing morning and finds store-owners laboriously
taking wax and soap off their windows? After his
return, more than one individual lets the chairman
know, in no uncertain terms, that this is the last
year he will help sponsor a community Halloween
party, adding—“The youngsters don’t appreciate
it, anyway.”

The Recreation Department of Barre, Vermont,
with the help of the Lions and Rotary Clubs, are
getting around this soaping and waxing problem
by sponsoring a Halloween Window—Drawing
Contest. The store-owners offer the use of their
windows to the youngsters, either singly or in
groups, for the drawing of a Halloween picture—
or any subject, for that matter—thereby giving the
youngsters the fun of marking windows yet keep-
ing all merchants happy. Here’s how this new
plan works:

The idea of actually donating their windows,
for artistic decoration by the youngsters, was sold
to local merchants on the basis that in all prob-
ability their windows would be marked anyway.
Moreover, it was pointed out that when pedes-
trians would pause to look at the works of art,
they, of course, could not miss seeing any mer-
chandise that might be displayed in the window.
The superintendent of schools was wholly in agree—
ment with the idea; so the teachers signed up the
would-be artists, and the windows were assigned.

Rules for the contestants, as set up by the rec-
reation department, state:

I. One or more children may work on a win-
dow. A sketch must be submitted to the recreation
department, in advance, indicating the colors de-
sired; then water colors in small bottles, or Bon
Ami, must be secured.

2. Children who have signed for a window will
be excused from school so that the decorating may
be started at three o’clock and finished by five
o’clock.

3. If any wax or soap appears on a window,
that window is automatically disqualified for an
award. Likewise, if the window-sill or sidewalks

in front of the store are spotted with paint, the
window will not be judged.

4. Prizes will be awarded for the three best
windows in each of the following groups: senior,
junior and midget. A prize will be awarded to the
Scout troop, boys’ club, girls’ club or any other
young people’s organization doing a window as a

302

Solving

a Halloween Problem

Joseph Brislin

group. Schools represented by first-prize winners
will be awarded a Halloween banner. Each mer-
chant will present the contestant using his window
with a small prize.

5. Members of the Rotary, Lions Club and the
recreation staff will be on hand to assist where-
ever needed. Judging will be done between the
hours of seven-thirty and ten.

That this program has been successful is indi-
cated by the fact that the store-owners practically
beg us to use their windows; and, in fact, this
year, they have requested that the contest be run
on a Friday so that the out-of—town shoppers may
see the work on Saturday. On Halloween night
the business section is crowded with adults view-
ing the work and offering suggestions to the
judges. The local paper gives a great deal of space
to the contest, and the result has been that waxing
or soaping is cut to a minimum.

Some of the work done on various windows is
really remarkable. The youngsters enter the con-
test with a will to win, and practice on their win-
dows at home or at school for a week previous to
the contest. That the merchants are all for the
idea has been further indicated by the fact that
they award generous prizes without solicitation.

In addition to the window-drawing contest. the
Barre Recreation Department, with the assistance
of a large number of volunteers, conducts two
Halloween parties in each grade-school building
throughout the city, one at five—thirty for the first,
second and third graders and kindergarteners, and
another at seven o’clock for the fourth, fifth, and
sixth graders. The Municipal Auditorium is
thrown open to the seventh and eighth graders be—
tween the hours of six and nine o’clock for a
dance, and from nine until eleven-thirty for the
high school students. Last year’s parties and
window—drawing contest involved ninety-six per-
cent of the registered school children in the City
of Barre. Damage was at a minimum and, for the
first time, the police department did not have one
extra man on duty on Halloween. This speaks
well for carefully planned Halloween celebrations.

RECREATION

Under
The Witch’s Spell

HE NIGHT IS dark and overcast; the moon

hides behind a protecting cloud ; all is quiet and
unusually still—broken only by a sudden piercing
scream, the moaning of a ghost, the 1neowing of a
cat, the swish of a broomstick as a witch rides high.
The scene is set for a thrilling Halloween—now
it’s up to you to plan the festivities and fun. So,
to start you off, here are a few game suggestions
to help make the party an exciting one.

Spirit Handclasp-—~This is a blindfold Hal—
loween game and a good icebreaker. The party is
divided into two equal groups. One of the groups
is dressed in flowing white sheets, and each mem-
ber is given the name of some well-known departed
spiritHNapoleon, Moses, Joan of Arc, and the
like. Members of the other group are given corre—
sponding names. The spirits then gather at one
end of the room, the mortals at another. All are
blindfolded, and the signal is given for every mor-
tal to find his ghost and shake hands within a
given period. As the mortal grasps the hand of a
specter, he gives his assumed name and the spirit
either groans or replies, “Aye, mortal.” If several
of the specters are armed with ice-filled rubber
gloves which they extend in place of hands, it will
add to the hilarity. First three couples matched
correctly may be awarded prizes.

Halloween Hallucinations—Give each guest
a slip of paper with a notation written on it as
“You have a hallucination that you are an actor
or actress, an auctioneer, an oil station attendant,”
and so forth. Each guest must pantomime his hal-
lucination. Others write guesses, and the winner
is the one with the greatest number of correct
answers.

The Witch’s Cat—-As many persons as pos-
sible are seated around a sheet, each one of them
taking hold of the sheet with the right hand, leav—
ing the left hand free for passing things. The room
is then partially darkened; and someone embarks
on the tale of the witch’s cat. It seems that the
Witch of Halloween had a favorite cat and that
as long as the witch lived, her cat prospered. How—
ever, at her passing, the cat pined away and finally

OCTOBER 1948

died from grief; but certain “phases” of the cat
were preserved and will now be passed around
under the sheet. As each part is passed, the name
of it is announced. A warning is given that if any
part is dropped, the dropper will be heavily fined.
The first thing passed is the cat’s head which is
a ball of yarn with knitting needles sticking
through it for whiskers. When that has gone the
rounds, the tail is passed, a tail from a fur; next
the hide, a piece of fur; then the teeth, a set of
false teeth; the tongue, a pickle; the eye, a grape
pulp; and so on.

Bat-in-the-Belfry—One guest is selected as
the Big Bat who is given five minutes to hide in
the “Belfry” (any place he chooses). The first
little bat to find him does not reveal his hiding
place, but hides with him—whether in a closet,
under a trunk, behind a trunk, and so on. Other
little bats join them as the hiding place is dis—
covered, until all are in one place. The last to
find the Belfry must perform a penalty act decided
upon by the others.

Scavenger Hunt—Perhaps the group will
want to spend some time outside as is the wont
of many on Halloween. Make up a list of ten to
fifteen objects which are to be brought back to the
party at the endof thirty minutes, an hour, de—
pending on the length of time you want the group
to stay out. The nature of the objects should vary
with the time allotted. Here are a few sugges—
tions: six blades of grass, a needle threaded with
brown thread, a last month’s calendar, an old
newspaper, a hair from a horse’s tail, a button hook,
and a street car transfer. Guests hunt in teams of
four or six for the same objects, and although they
may hunt separately, all on one team must return
together in the time allotted. The first team to
arrive with all or most of the objects wins.

Apple Bobbing, New Style—Here is the old
apple with a little different twist. Groups of four
compete in the game. Number One pares the apple
and passes it to Number Two. He quarters it and
passes it to Number Three who cores the apple
and drops it into a pan of water. The fourth mem-
ber then retrieves the four quarters with his mouth
-—at no time using his hands for this feat. The
team finishing first deserves a prize.

I f you wish additional suggestions for Halloween
games and activities, write to the National Recrea—
tion Association; 315 Fourth Avenue, New Y orle.

303

Flying Squadrons m

 

Sponsored by the Jefferson County
Playground and Recreation Board
Louisville, _Kentucky

Betty Redwine

I IEY, MOM! HEY, POP! Get out the old jalopy
-——there’s going to be a Flying Squadron at

the church tonight!

John, Mirandy did you hear that? Don’t
bother to dress because if it’s similar to the squad
who put on that recreation program at the school
last week—and over at our Women’s Club last
month—it’s going to be another night for this
family to "turn out.”

There it is——a typical scene in any Jefferson
County home when a Flying Squadron is sched-
uled for the neighborhood. Formal attire' isn’t
necessary; in fact, it isn’t even desired. Mom can
wear her old gingham; Pop can don smoking
jacket or overalls; Junior’s face can be dunked a
time or two in waterhand the family is on its way.

These squads are famous in the fun spots of
Jefferson County. Any county group or organiza-
tion may have one by simply placing a call to the
Jefferson County Playground and Recreation
Board and saying, “This is a church (club, P.T.A.,
service club, civic club, lodge or other group), and
we want a Flying Squadron for the following
date.”

If it’s a church, a squad leader immediately
plans with the church group, and arranges to con—
duct the program; if it’s a club or other group,
there will be a different type of interest. But the
Flying Squadrons are always ready and able to
adjust their activities to fit the pattern selected by
the group to be served.

How much does this service cost these groups?
Exactly nothing. Six of these squads are ready
to fly at the job on an instant’s notice. That’s the
reason they have been dubbed the “Flying Squad-
rons.”

The personnel of the squads is made up of
highly skilled people, trained either by Anne Liv-

 

304

ingston or Ruth Ehlers of the National Recreation
Association at training institutes in Jefferson
County each spring. Squad members are paid, of
course—they’re worth their weight in gold, and
for such value received, recreation executives are
proud to say, “Those Flying Squadron people are
the ‘cream of our part time payroll crop’.”

Regarding the exact type of fun provided, here’s
the recreational menu: One set of “fliers” gives
your group an evening of square dancing inter-
mingled with novel fun ideas; another squad spe-
cializes in directing parties; while still another
places emphasis on song fests and musical mixers.
So it goes—and out come Jefferson County’s fam-
ilies for nights of fun together. By the way, Jeffer-
son County isn’t crowded; there are only about
100,000 fun-loving souls living here—so there’s
room for anyone who wants to Join us.

Now, for results. Folks in these communities
can be assured that none of their regular programs
will ever die, because a squad is always ready to
revive it and to instill new life at the first sign of»
recreational “bellyache.” This, of course, is in
addition to the squad’s regular service. At a
P.T.A. banquet at Medora School recently, three
hundred county gentlemen and their ladies en-
joyed a Flying Squadron evening; Prestonia Dad’s
Night drew more than four hundred fireside-
inclined fathers; while more than three hundred
mamas, papas, and their youthful offspring hied
themselves all the way to St. Matthews when a
game-night program was staged there.

That’s about it, folks. The next time you’re
touring, head the nose of your recreation car to-
ward Jefferson County. Here’s the call you’ll hear
ringing up and down the countryside—“Hey,
Mom! Hey, Pop! Let’s get goin’—there’s a Fly-
ing Squadron in the village tonight.”

RECREATION

Hobbies c\,

THERE’S A STORY THERE

 

DorOthy Martin

lngton down the Potomac, past Mount Ver-
non, the stately old home of George Washington,
past lesser known old homes with their tree—lined
walks leading to the river piers, and it reminded
me of the pleasant years I once had spent in a
small New England town, and of the fun of brows-
ing around its old houses.

Have you ever stopped to look at an old house?
I don’t mean just the wide clapboards, or the
stone, or the brick. I don’t mean the single big
chimney of the Cape Cod cottage or the two big
end chimneys of the old square house. I’m not
referring to the sunburst window over the door,
nor the small twelve over twelve panes of glass so
rarely found in houses today.

I mean, have you ever really looked at an old
house? Have you studied its character, visualized
its past, listened to its tales?

I remember that small New England town very
well—its post office, its two general stores, its
center school and its two churches. On the main
street there was a very prim, white square house.
It was owned by two old spinsters who would not
go upstairs because of mice; while up the hill, on
the mountain road, stood a house where a man
and his wife had lived for thirty years without
speaking.

At the far end of the town there still existed an
old house that once had rested on a disputed town
line. They say that fll‘St one town would bill the
owner for taxes, then the other town, and finally
both of them! He expressed his opinion Of such
foolishness in language unfit to print, and vowed
never- to pay a cent of taxes again. One Sunday
a wily old tax collector thought he had the man
cornered in church, but the owner slipped out the
back way before the service started. When the
boys at the store asked him about it the next day,
he said: “When I saw an agent of Satan coming
into the House of the Lord, I left.”

Through these stories old houses became my
hobby—fascinating and inexhaustible—one that
could be dropped for weeks and then resumed,
with nothing lost.

THE OTHER DAY I took a boat ride from Wash-

1

OCT OBEB 1948

It is so easy. Walk around the old sections of
your town or city with an eye open for an old
house. Look it over from every angle. Take a
picture of it. The camera doesn’t need to be the
expensive kind with four stops to adjust and filters
to confuse you. Just take as good a picture as
you know how, watching for shadows, interesting
features, and an attractive angle. Be sure to get
the roof! Maybe you are artistic and can sketch,
or perhaps you Specialize in little humorous rough
drawings. Better yet, you may dabble in water
color. The idea is to get some type of reproduction
of the house to put in a notebook.

Then start collecting material on the history of
the house. If you like to read, spend some rainy
evening with a town history or some historical
society papers. Take notes on your old house.
Find out when it was built, the occupation of the
owner, who his children were and whom they
married. Notice how the house changed hands
and why. Who put the cupola and widow’s walk
on the roof? Why was that east wing added?
Many a tale lies in those events. You’ll find the
minutes Slipping away into hours.

And on a line, fall evening, why not go “a-call—
ing” on some life-long residents of the town? Get
the little tales that were never printed, the tales
passed on by the village gossips—men gathered
around the stove of the old general store, women
at a quilting bee. One story leads to another. Mere
names become distinct personalities. That old run-
down house takes on character. You will come to
see the town in a new light; you will know your
town and love it.

So to you hikers, photographers, historians, and
to you lovers of tales, I suggest old houses. Old
houses are everywhere. Don’t pass them by.

Remember that they have a story. They have
echoed with the shouts of children’s laughter,
beamed benevolently on love, shared the joys and
sorrows of their owners. They have seen life’s
cycle repeated again and again. Generations have
come into and gone out front the protection of
those walls. Yes, an old house is a truly wonder—
ful thing. Why don’t you look at it?

305

W herein the Chairman of New

York State Council of Parks

discusses state park problems.

Philosophy of a Park System *

Robert Moses

HERE WAS A time when the word park brought
Tto mind only a formal public garden, a few
rows of trees, a little green grass and some wooden
benches. When you say state park, however, at
least in New York, your mind brings up a differ-
ent picture. You think of Jones Beach, with its
long stretches of sand and ocean surf; of Bear
Mountain, with its miles of woodland trails for
hiking, riding or skiing; of two million acres of
wild forest lakes and streams in the Adirondack
Forest Preserve; of the Allegheny State Park,
with its cabins in the wilderness; of the great glens
back of the Finger Lakes and of the mighty cata-
ract at Niagara. '

These are the patterns for the state parks of
tomorrow, all over the country. During the last
few years, many states, besides New York, have
been giving considerable thought to expansion and
improvement of state park facilities, and the years
ahead should see great forward steps. Michigan,
for instance, has a large expansion program, in-
cluding the acquisition of the 43,000—acre Porcu—
pine Mountain area of hardwood forest bordering
on Lake Superior. California plans a substantial
expenditure for ocean beaches, tidewater bays and
inlets, and other lands for recreational purposes.
Missouri’s constitution makes funds available an—
nually for maintenance and development of state
parks. So it goes.

State parks, in the modern sense of the word,
fall into three general categories:

I. Areas near large centers of population where
people can go for a day’s outing.

2. Areas within driving distance of cities and
towns where people can go for recreation and stay
overnight, if they wish.

306

3. Areas where people can go to spend a few
days, a week, or a complete vacation.

In all three categories, the purpose of a state
park is to provide fun and recreation. A state park
should be, first of all, a big area—where a lot of
people can go without elbowing each other—with
natural recreational features, whether beachfront,
woods or mountains. Water, for swimming, fish-
ing or boating, is a Number One requirement. The
development of the recreational facilities depends,
of course, on the type of area; but it should be
carried out so that people can do the things they
want to do——swimming, hiking, golf, camping, pic-
nicking, winter sports, or whatnot—with the least
possible fuss and expense when they get there.
Hence, well-planned parking areas, bathhouses,
cafeterias, and similar conveniences are needed.

_ Facilities for people to stay overnight or spend

week ends or longer vacations, where they are af—
forded, should be geared to the simple needs and
limitations of the average modern city family: a
roof, four walls, running water, provision for heat.

Too many so-called state parks of the past have
come into being because of somebody giving the
state a piece of land—some rich man’s estate, per-
haps, which had become unusable as private prop-
erty. More often than not it turns out to be a
white elephant as state park property; it is too
small, or too 'much out of the way, or lacking in
natural features for mass recreation, and ordinar-
ily no endonent of cash comes with it. There
are, of course, notable exceptions, but this is the
rule. In the long run, the greatest extravagance
is to accept a park in the wrong place, of the

 

*Address_given at National Conference on State Parks, October
1947. Reprinted from Planning and Civic Comment.

RECREATION

wrong Size, and without exceptional facilities for
public enjoyment—just because you can get the
land for nothing.

Again, some states still cling to the idea that
historical sites—a Revolutionary general’s birth-
place or the mansion where Washington slept—or
some remarkable geological disturbance or freak,
are, per se, appropriate state parks. They usually
are of little value from the recreational standpoint,
and should be completely divorced from the state
park service and maintained by educational or his-
torical agencies interested and skilled in restora-
tion and exhibition of historic relics and scientific
marvels.

Long and painful experience has taught state
park commissioners and executives that, in most
cases, the only sensible thing to do with a man-
sion that has stables and outhouses in a real state
park area is to tear it down before you are trapped
into conversions and adaptations to public use.
You can’t turn a Chippendale dining room into a
successful cafeteria or a boudoir into an oHice for
a park foreman.

The magnificent gifts of the Harriman, Morgan,
Perkins and Rockefeller families in cash, lands
and improvements to our Palisades system are
illustrations of real altruism. It is no secret that
John D. Rockefeller, Jr., spent some $12,000,000
in buying, piece by piece, most of the land on the
top of the Palisades for a parkway which will have
no equal in the East. The million dollar endow-
ment of the Cutting Arboretum, which will even-
tually be added to Heckscher State Park on Long
Island, is another example of genuine philanthro-
py, as is the famous Letchworth Park on the Gen-
esee River in upper New York.

Some of the older states, no doubt under the
leadership of patriotic antiquarians and over-
enthusiastic botanists, have deliberately gone in
for a policy of writing miscellaneous gifts of odds
and ends of old homes and landmarks and have
fortified themselves with laws, embroideries of
impressive names on their letterheads, and the
other accepted trappings of philanthropy. This is
well enough if it doesn’t go too far, but it has no
bearing at all on the establishment of an adequate
state park system for fun and recreation. When
the two ideas are confused, neither objective is
met. Historic shrines are overrun and tramped
down by numbers of pe0ple, most of whom want a
day in the open and no lessons in history, and
parks are so small and poorly planned that they
also become congested, littered and disorderly.

Another danger to be avoided is that of accept-
ing the gift of part of a large tract of desirable

OCTOBER 1948

private land in return for making all of it aCCCSSl-
ble by very expensive parkway construction. This
may simply result in providing a large state park
for a colony of small homeowners, built up with-
out regard to proper zoning restrictions by the
owner of the remaining private land or by sub-
dividers and speculators to whom he sells his hold-
ings. This is the danger inherent in the otherwise
fine plan to build Crandon Park outside of Miami,
Florida. The Dade County park authorities‘got
half an island including a fine beach, and hitched
the whole island to the mainland by means of a toll
causeway. It would have been much better to buy
or condemn the whole island, perhaps with the
help of the State of Florida.

Among The few honest opponents of state park
development and expansion are the extreme con-
servationists who, from fear of lumber, power and
other commercial interests, seek, by constitutional
and legal barriers, to lock up vast acres of state-/
owned forests against access by road and against
the simplest, most elementary improvements in the
way of shelter and primitive comforts without
which the city man and his family cannot enjoy a
cheap vacation. The average city family cannot
live in any comfort in a lean-to or hut, and a few
days of rain and cold on the bare ground make
them sick and miserable. These conservationists
are small in number, but very vocal and persua-
sive. They want to keep the forest preserve a re-
mote wilderness; but it belongs to all the people
for their reasonable enjoyment, not to a handful
of fanatics. In New York we have tried repeatedly
to submit to the voters at a popular referendum a
constitutional amendment opening up our more
than two million acres of state forest lands to mil-
lions of people by allowing cabins to be built and
service to be provided so that they can camp with
reasonable comforts. It is senseless to buy and
build more new state parks if we have fine poten-
tial parks already in the ownership of the people.

The relationship between national, state, re~
giOnal, county and municipal parks needs more
careful study—because no balance of recreation
needs is possible without a clear understanding of
the territory each unit of government should cover.
Obviously, national parks—and I don’t mean na-
tional monuments—must be few and far between.
They take in vast areas of exceptional scenery
which can be saved from exploitation only by
Uncle Sam himself. The line between the federal
and state field cannot be precisely drawn, but we
know pretty well where it is. Most states will
never have a national park or very few of them,
and there is no use sitting around and waiting for

307

 

State parks must respond to year-round demand.
Taughannock Falls, N. Y., draws visitors every season.

the federal Santa Claus to do what state initiative
should provide.

The possibilities of bi— and tri—state parks are
only beginning to be appreciated—that is, parks
on state borders which several states can develop
together by treaties approved by Congress, and
under authorities to which each state appoints an
equal number of members or has an equal voice
in their appointment. The Palisades Interstate
Park, representing New York and New Jersey,
established in 1900, and administering some 50,000
acres along the Hudson River in the two states,
beginning opposite the crowded West Side up to
West Point, and extending back into the wilder-
ness, shows what can be done along this line. The
cooperation of Connecticut, Massachusetts and
New York is required to establish a Taconic Tri-
State Park. Many other states have similar possi-
bilities.

As to regional parks, the Huron-Clinton Metro-
politan Authority, covering the large area around
Detroit, with an excellent record of accomplish-
ment and intelligent direction, now controls more
than 4,000 acres of parks and is developing plans
for 180 miles of parkways supplementing the state
and federal highway system. The Huron-Clinton
Metropolitan Authority is financed by contribu-
tions from ‘the five counties in the Detroit metro-
politan area through the imposition of an addi-
tional tax added to and collected with the general
taxes of these counties.

The line of demarcation between state, county
and municipal parks is hardest to draw. City parks
should be small and numerous to serve all neigh-
borhoods for periods of play and rest measured by

308

hours, not days. Town and county parks have
similar limitations but serve a group of villages
and neighborhoods instead of one. If a county
park is so located as to attract, entice or cater to
thousands of trippers from a great nearby city, it
will almost certainly be overrun and ruined. Only
a state park can cater to such numbers.

It is much easier to operate a state than a city
park, and a tradition or reputation for order, clean-
liness and cooperation, once established on state
land in the suburbs or country, sticks for a long
time, but has to. be revived and asserted over and
over again in the crowded city. I have been re-
sponsible for planning, building and running both
types of recreation areas, and I know the differ-
ences. Let it be understood, however, that while
city people are harder on their home parks than
on the big reservations they use as citizens of the
state, it is not altogether due to cussedness at
home, vandalism and indifference. The great dis-
tinction arises from inadequate space and over-
crowding under congested urban conditions. It is
easy enough to sneer at Coney Island and Rocka-
way and to compare them unfavorably with Jones
Beach, until you reflect that at Jones Beach one-
fifth the number of people can spread themselves
over more than ten times as much land. The curse
of city parks is congestion. There is no earthly
excuse for it in state parks.

Access is, next to the proper selection of the
site, the most important factor in state park plan-
ning—access by car, bus, boat and rail. The best
way to reach a park is by a wide landscaped park-
way without traffic lights or grade crossings, with
ornamental stone—faced bridges carrying cross-
roads over or under—a ribbon park restricted to
passenger vehicles, free from billboards, with its
bordering private property zoned for residence and
with occasional small parks and stopping places

. along the way.

Next to parkways, expressways for mixed traf-
tic will provide convenient means of getting from
the city to the suburbs. Excursion boats are a
slow but pleasant means of travel if a state park
can be reached by water. Railroads are still a
staple, dependable form of transit but usually in-
volve combinations with bus lines.

As to.air travel, along with almost all park
executives, I feel that airports do not mix with
state parks, that the noise and distraction of the
airplane, along with its danger to recreation seek-
ers, make it the least desirable, even if theoretically
the speediest, form of travel. No doubt the sea-
planes would cause less disturbance than land
planes at waterfront parks, but even these are not

RECREATION

assets. Most of the talk about air parks is sheer
buncombe. Safety, quiet, and a sky free from the
roar of planes, are the right and due of vacation-
ists whose nerves have been strained by the rapid
tempo, the jar and grind, dust and rush of daily
life in our cities, plants and offices.

This is an argument not only against planes, but
also against all mechanical amusement devices,
penny-catching gadgets and artificial stimulants in
our parks. Leave these to the commercial resorts,
to the Coney Island barkers, to the operators of
scenic railways, chute-the-chutes, barrels of love
and pinball rackets. They have no legitimate place
in state reservations, and those who can get their
fun only in cheap, noisy, phony, commercial resorts
. should go to just' such places. These pleasure re-
sorts are going to pot all over the country.

Our experience at Jones Beach and similar
parks has shown that discriminating pe0ple want
no mechanical gadgets at the seashore. They want
air, sunshine, space, water, simple games, good
architecture, order, cleanliness and the kind of
planning and administration which meets peak-
load demands without crowding, disorder, litter,
noise and appeasement of the small, vicious minor-
ities of roughnecks and vandals who are so con-
spicuous in many city parks. Incidentally, con-
siderable revenues can be collected at state parks
without exorbitant charges. Parking is one of the
best sources of income. People are inclined to
respect the things they pay for more than those
they get free.

The details of park planning are just as impor—
tant as the general layout—signs, lighting poles
and other fixtures, landscaping, the uniforms of
attendants and officials, civility and firmness in
dealing with the public, reduction of policing and
regimentation to a minimum, the little usually
considered trifles which give patrons a feeling of
pride in a place and a disposition to cooperate in
keeping it up to standard.

Climate and temperature are less and less major
factors in park usage. It is true that some sports.
such as swimming, fishing, boating and many
games, shut down in winter, but more and more
people go out into the Open in cold weather, in rain
as well as sunshine, and don’t shut themselves in
superheated houses over week ends because the
thermometer is low or the barometer drops. Switz-
erland, from the tourists’ point of view, was a
summer resort until after the turn of the twentieth
century. Then its winter glories became known
and Englishmen, depressed and dripping with fog,
began taking vacations in Swiss and Austrian
mountain snows. The same thing happened more

OCTOBER 1948

recently in New England and other American win-
ter resorts. People discovered that there were
many places as attractive in December as they
were in May. Our state parks must respond to
this year-round demand, and they must be prop-
erly equipped and manned, and ingeniously con-
trived to shift quickly from one seasonal use to
another in order to stimulate and encourage con-
tinuous, uninterrupted outdoor fun and recreation.
Similarly, it must be assumed that southern states
will attract more and more winter visitors and that
their finest stretches of waterfront, woods, and
other natural heritages should be preserved in
public ownership and not denuded, exploited and
spoiled by haphazard private developments.

Selection of park personnel is also tremendously
important. Civil service, if it controls permanent
positions, usually does not reach temporary sea-
sonal help, and politics, slipshod methods of inter-
viewing and examination by park authorities, and
lack of standards and discipline result in poor se-
lections and feeble control. This is inexcusable,
especially in view of the fact that, except during
war time, the very cream of high school and col-
lege boys and girls are available for jobs as life-
guards, attendants or cashiers, and that many of
them can count on coming back summer after
summer in vacation time to supplement their in-
come and help pay for their vacations at work
which is at once pleasant, healthful and reasonably
well paid.

Here you have our philosophy—the fruits of
twenty-five years’ experience. As the poet said,
“Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.” We
have made our mistakes, and you may profit from
them. Our state park system, however, seems to
work, because our people use it in vast numbers
and want more and more of it.

 

309

" ‘ x w . x .- -'
“hr-endmi-m WW".. 1.3;“ M" a: ’22::

 

Clusters of lights illuminate municipal
playgrounds in Jacksonville, Florida.

IVE FLAGS—French, Spanish, English, Con-

federate and the Stars and Stripes—have
greeted the breeze at Jacksonville, Florida. Gen—
eral Andrew Jackson (Old Hickory) gave the
city its name in 1822; and the first white child,
Sarah Ann Hogan, was born there in 1825.

Sports and recreational events, such as music,
dancing, boating and swimming, were enjoyed on
plantations along the St. Johns long before the
Civil War. After that war, sports events of impor-
tance began to transpire in nearby Jacksonville,
starting when Washington defeated New York 6-5
in 1888, in the first professional baseball game

played there.

A natural sequal to a series of such activities
was the establishment ,of a summer playground at
Confederate Park in 19o7—onetyear after Presi-
dent Theodore Roosevelt’s White House Confer-
ence had resulted in the formation of an organiza-
tion, now known as the National Recreation Asso-
ciation. Between 1907 and 1925, recreation was a
child of the Park Department, gaining maturity as
one of the South’s oldest departments.

The first step toward an adequate recreation
system was made in 1925 when the free—holders of
Jacksonville, empowered by a special act of the
State Legislature, created a board and voted a mill
tax for recreation by a five to one majority. This
Playground and Recreation Board, serving with-
out compensation, instigated a plan which has
placed Jacksonville among the leading cities in the
South recreationally. Much of the money ex-

310

The Story of

American Cities in Recreation . . ..

Part II

JACKSIINVILLE

Nathan L. Mallison

pended, since the start of a definite annual budget
under the mill tax levy, has been put into perma-
nent improvements which stand as monuments to
the soundness of the policy pursued.

Now, Jacksonville is one of fifteen hundred
cities in the United States which have municipal
recreation departments. These departments cater
to the leisure time interests of people, regardless
of age, sex, color or creed. The backbone of
the recreation department’s facilities is its play-
grounds. Practically every playground now exist-
ing in Jacksonville is a direct reflection of the
people’s will. Parent-teachers associations and
civic improvement leagues have, for the most part,
requested the placing of playgrounds in the vari-
ous neighborhoods. Their demands have resulted
in the location of recreation centers, by the Recrea—
tion Board, in every place where a reasonable area
was available and budget funds permitted.

Progress During Depression

By 1937, the board apparently had constructed
the maximum number of facilities possible within
the limits of its budget. Each previously acquired
area required supervision and extra maintenance,
which decreased ,the amount of funds available for
new construction. At this juncture, numerous
councilmen came forward with appropriations
from their ward funds which were used as spon-
sors’ contributions in the creation of W.P.A. con-
struction projects. Among the facilities con-
structed under this plan were the Fairfield Tennis
Courts, Victory Playground, Kooker Playground,

RECREATION

Springfield Swimming Pool and the Negro ath-
letic field at Wilder Park.

During the year 1937, again empowered by the
State Legislature, the recreation-conscious free—
holders of Jacksonville voted a half—mill increase
in the tax rate for recreation. This approbation of
the municipal recreation program, during a de—
pression period, constitutes one of the greatest
endorsements ever given a department, anywhere,

at anytime.
War Adds Impetus

Several military and naval establishments, also
a number of shipyards, were located in Jackson-
ville before World War II. The department
played an important part in the deve10pment of
recreation for servicemen and did everything from
conducting ceremonies at the launching of ships to
conducting the first War Recreation Conference.
Ultimately, four-fifths of the activities staff were
in service and the gaps were filled with high school
youngsters. '

Following the war, the 1947 session of the Leg-
islature amended the act governing the depart-
ment, staggering the terms of the board members
appointed by the mayor and empowering the
department to issue revenue certificates,
not to exceed $500,000, for the enlarge-
ment of the stadium (Gator Bowl), and
$200,000 for other improvements. At
the same time, the city fathers decided
on a 100 percent assessment of property.
As a result of these changes, more funds

rolthrtvaur ____ __ (If/If 62”“ f .. .. ......a.. .—
a; “spur/ox 0”?“ “‘“m’y.

this chart, the detailed dual relationship of a special—
ist to his city-wide program and his playground
program. For example, the athletic specialist has
leagues, tournaments, meets, officials’ associations,
and so on, which are separate from the playground
program. He also may assist the playground su-
pervisor with inter-playground athletic activities.
There is much “doubling in brass” on the staff in
order that all phases of the work may receive at-
tention. Jacksonville is a medium sized city, in the
200,000 to 250,000 population class, and cannot go
in for the specialization of cities in the half million
or more bracket. A large Negro population is
grouped in the northwestern quadrant of the city
and has, on a small scale, a duplicate setup of the
white organization within the Negro district.

Civil Service, Pensions, and Personnel

The security of'employees who do a workman-
like job, as well as their promotion, is handled
through the Civil Service Board.

Grades in the activities staff, starting at the bot-
tom are: Play Leader, Junior Playground Direc-
tor, Specialist Supervisor, Senior Playground
Director, General Supervisor (same as Assistant

Juxram/ u- lmmnox do“:
smear/r: IKIIHIY

 

. . COWEO
are available at a time when costs of su- .
Pel‘VISmnr maintenance and Constructlon
are skyrocketing. The board 18 still
appointed by the mayor and is almost -
. . . . MAINI£NANC£ t' CONII‘RflelM
autonomous in authority, domg its own
purchasing, and reporting to no political
body. Properties are allocated to the rec- cmuxmxuup mmrmcm pum-
, . . non foam” oeArrJ‘Mm rouww
reation department by the City Commis—
sion for deve10pment as recreation areas,

reallocation being made every ten years.
An executive Secretary is charged with
carrying out the board’s policies and
serves as the liaison between the board
and the department it governs.

Chart of Organization

The chart of organization, shown here,
indicates the functions as well as the
chain of responsibilities of the Adminis—
tration Staff, the Activities Division and
the Maintenance and Construction Sec-c
tion of the Jacksonville Recreation De—
partment. “

N o attempt has been made to show, in

OCTOBER 1948

DI! flit?

620mm rte-rpm:
#0 fl TINC

[MEET/C
SPICMUII'

roam” I
am: cure

OF 0662!! Tia”

=——'—_.__.__.__|———-
S‘opmmréwswr

  
  

(FIJI!!! CINE!“

50PM mw 30F“ moo
MAM fault
man: an F!
tier/1017 Spit/luff
Hum .
Kn VII/5: ggfji'gmf
rise-Mas? INC/1 as!
Wit: 10:02
or
Faraway/VD!
- or: new? alrrllcr

(NM? 0’ ORG’INIZJI’ION -I,IO

[MEMle Ma
owner/mm ave.
. . COW

CONN“???
JR”! A“

091M I
549501 t I! r

0137!“?

 

Entrance gate, typical of Jacksonville playgrounds.
These piers contain electric switches and equipment.

gnaw.
.-

       
   

9:

 

swurtzstwss;  54,. ,- r a g
v «Wighwm... w r ,

“paintwau-xvu‘n’aswtmiu

.-

Front entrance of the Springfield Swimming
Pool. The pool itself is built above ground.

312 RECREATION

RECREATION
AREAS OF

JACKSONVILLE 0*"

 

OCTOBER 1948 313

Superintendent) and Superintendent. Promotional
tests are given when subordinates possess the abil—
ity to hold a position in a higher grade for which
a vacancy exists.

-While the Probst Rating System is used by the
city at large, the department makes additional

checks of employees’ abilities for pay increase pur—
poses. This provides an incentive for the em—
ployee to advance from the minimum to the maxi—
mum in a given grade without waiting for service

raises, granted every five years.

Following a period of twenty or more years, an
employee may retire on a pension of not less than
50 percent, and not more than 60 percent of his
salary. The pension fund is maintained by a four
percent deduction from pay which the city matches,
making eight percent a year for each employee.

The three main divisions of the staff are: Ad—
ministrative, Supervisory (leadership) and Main—
tenance—Construction. Administration has four
employees; Supervision, thirty; and Maintenance—
Construction, twenty—seven. All of these are full

time, year-round personnel.
In addition, there are numerous part time sea-

sonal employees such as swimming pool attend—
ants, sports officials and a few additional play

leaders in summer.

Finances

The budget is based on two factors: I. What

I% mills on each dollar of real and personal prop—
erty will produce; 2. Revenue from facilities. The

current budget is presented herewith:

Salaries:
Administration, Clerical . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 11,340.00
Supervisory Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65,420.00
Maintenance and Construction . . . . . . . . .. 64,699.00
New Construction, Repairs, Maintenance,
and so forth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 71,000.00

Office Supplies and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000.00

Playground Apparatus, Playground Equip—
ment, Maintenance Equipment, Mowers,

and so forth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15,000.00
Contractual Services: Lights, Water, Tele—
phone and Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

6,500.00

Major Events

Annual or seasonal specials of
city—wide importance.
contests.

Dixie States Model Airplane

Meet. Motion picture shows.

Community nights.
Midget Peep Show Contest. ball, scrub softball, bound ball,

Baseball leagues, city—wide.
Annual Shrine Picnic for chil-

dren. Boys Pentathlon.
Girls O’Leary Contest.

County Tennis Championships.

Minor Events

Weekly specials of minor im—
portance or inter-playground

Maintenance and Operation of Trucks and

Operation of Automobiles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,500.00
Special Events and Contingencies . . . . . . . .. 3,000.00
$245,459.00
Revenue from Taxation . . . . . . ..$232,500.00
Revenue from Facilitie’s . . . . . . . . 12,959.00
———$245,459.00

Areas and Facilities

Thirty areas, covering I 35 acres, include the
following facilities, most of which are lighted for
night use, being used night and day 365 days of

the year.
Apparatus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92 pieces . . .71 lighted

Baseball Diamonds . . . . . . . . .. 8 . . . . . . . . . 2 lighted

Cinder Tracks . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 . . . . . . . .. 0 lighted

Community Buildings . . . . . . . . 2 . . . . . . . .. 2 lighted

Gridirons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 . . . . . . . .. 1 lighted

Har-d Surfaced Courts . . . . . . .. 21 . . . . . . . ..19 lighted

Shelters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8 . . . . . . . . . 8 lighted

Hobby Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 . . . . . . . .. 1 lighted

Horseshoe Lanes . . . . . . . . . . .. 17 . . . . . . . . .17 lighted

ShufHeboards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . . . . .19 lighted

Softball Diamonds . . . . . . . . . .. 12 . . . . . . . .. 4 lighted
(Softball diamonds used for touch football in Autumn)
Stadium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 . . . . . . . . . 1 lighted
Baseball Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 . . . . . . . . . 1 lighted
Swimming Pools . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 . . . . . . . . . 2 lighted
Tennis Courts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 . . . . . . . .. 3 lighted

Program

Space will permit only an indication of the type
of programming carried out. Each quarter, a fore-
cast is placed in the hands of employees. This
schedule is worked out by the supervisory activ-
ities staff, utilizing' the program of the last twenty
years, with the constructive comments on them
accumulated as a result of staff discussion by all
activity workers. (Sample at bottom of the page.)

This program is made out on a weekly basis in
the first two columns and a quarterly basis in the
last column. Most of it is held out—of—doors, since
the weather—except in the rainy season—encour-
ages outdoor activity. Night lighting on recrea-
tion areas is of great assistance. Some of the activ-
ity classifications are:

ATHLETICS: Baseball, softball, basketball, track,
touch football, swimming, tennis —- leagues and

Routine Activities

Seasonal or continuous phases of
the program. “Stock — in - trade”
items.

Daily playground program: mass
games, quiet games, boxing, tether

horseshoe pitching, volleyball, check-
ers, apparatus play, and so forth.

 

‘ RECREATION

tournaments for these activities.

MINOR SPORTS: Horseshoes, dodge ball, bound
ball, volleyball, paddle tennis, ping pong, shuHie-
board, boxing, badminton, cork ball, fist ball.

CRAFTWORK: Aluminum trays, weaving, plas-
tics, model airplanes, miniature autos, model boats,
crayonex. pine needle basketry, bric-a-brac, fish
nets, sewing.

SOCIAL RECREATION: Adar (adult group) Club,
Teen Towns, church parties, picnics, fun nites,
community nights, party kits, party plans, street
dances. '

MISCELLANEOUS CONTESTS: Marbles, jack—
stones, hop scotch, rope jumping, pentathlon, ath—
letic badge tests, mumble-the-peg, O’Leary, photo
exhibit.

AQUATICS: Learn-to-swim classes, Red Cross
water safety instruction, playground canoe regatta,
swim meets, aquatic carnivals.

DRAMATICS AND LINGUISTICS: Story hours,
marionette shows, skits, plays, amateur nights,
speeches to civic groups, festivals, pageants, Stage—
crafters (a player group).

MUSIC: Minstrel shows, barbershop quartets,
music festivals, community sings, choral guild,
oratorios, light opera, symphony orchestra, band
concerts, and the like.

RHYTHMICS: Square dancing, social dancing,
folk dancing, rhythm bands.

CELEBRATIONS: Marshalling parades, launching
ships, Joseph Lee Day, Fourth of July, Labor
Day, arrival of Santa Claus, New Year’s festiv—
ities at Gator Bowl football game. (This bowl
game is very closely tied to the department.)

CIVIC SERVICE: Assistance to any group plan-
ning a public party, picnic, celebration, convention,
and so forth, home playground layout service, as—
sistance with regattas, carnivals, benefit shows.

Outstanding Facilities

While the playgrounds are taken for granted
and include many like facilities, there are a few
other areas which receive considerable use and at—
tention. The Jacksonville Baseball Park is used
by the “Tars” of the South Atlantic League and
by Negro teams of outstanding ability. It, and one
other diamond, are lighted for night baseball.

The Gator Bowl, a football stadium, seats about
37,000 and is used by high schools and colleges
four months of the year. Out of season, horse
shows, thrill shows, concerts and similar activities
augment the income of this facility.

Hobbyland is an indoor workshop with a minia-
ture auto racing track, and with control line circles
for model airplanes adjacent.

OCTOBER 1948

 

Dranlatics play; their part in recreation program.
Here Theatre Art Guild, “The Inspector General.”

Noteworthy Activities

Some activities stand out because of publicity
appeal; some pack a wallop on account of the
human values involved; others have “worthwhile
value” written all over them. Maybe the Midget
Jackstone Tournament is as important to a nine-
year—old girl as the Florida Softball Championship
is to a player on the winning City League Softball
Team. -

Joseph Lee Day is easily the outstanding event
of the summer playground program. It has already
become traditional.

The Hobbyland setup, which includes the model
airplane and miniature race cars, has a number of
unique features. At one time the model airplane
club held nine United States records. The world’s
record was broken four times in one afternoon on
the miniature track. These performances are note-
worthy, but, more so, is the number of father—son
combinations in these activities.

The New Year’s Festivities at the Gator Bowl
bring bands and costumed groups from all over the
northern part of Florida. They are truly gala
occasions.

Actually, the salient events in the program are
like the teeth of a comb, equal in importance to
round out and balance a schedule of activities
appealing to large groups of the populace.

People Think Well of Department

Jacksonville’s newspapers are favorable to the
department, giving it a third of a mile (in column
inches) of publicity annually. Numerous letters of
appreciation, from groups receiving special assist-
ance, are on file. Youngsters who grew up on
playgroundsmdrop in occasionally to pay asocial
call, and to express their gratitude for taking part
in some activity staged fifteen or twenty years ago.
A few words of commendation, representative of

315

many others, show that Jacksonville’s citizenry,
both its young and old, are sold on their Recrea—
tion Department:

' “Through well-planned programs of recreation’in
the City of Jacksonville, I was able to find a satisfying
place among my fellows and to experience full enjoy-
ment in the activities.”
Mrs. E. L. George, Dean of
Girls, Stanton High School.

if! * *

“I have seen, in particular, one large area which was
painted black on our ‘delinquency map,’ bleached out
by a playground and swimming pool. This was a
graphic demonstration of what can be done along
those lines.

“Of course, I know—aside from this rather striking
demonstration—that the work of our Recreation Sys-
tem has been a consistent and potent factor, on the
positive side, in developing good citizens. I am of the
opinion that children learn about as much concerning
the things that count on the playground as they do
in the classroom.”

W. S. Criswell, Judge, Juve—
nile Court of Duval County.

* * *

“Jacksonville’s Recreation Department has been of
great assistance to us of the Navy Recruiting Service
“nononly as individuals who have taken advantage
of its many recreational facilities—but in our work of
procuring the best type of young American for the
Naval Service. Jacksonville, with its many play-
grounds, swimming pools, tennis courts and athletic
fields, has produced a type of young man who is more
mentally alert and is morally and physically the better
for the work’of its Recreation Department.

“Assistance rendered by the Recreation Department
in the planning of parades, exhibitions, displays and
other public information media has always been cheer-
fully and efficiently given.

“The Jacksonville Recreation Department—and all
other departments of its kind throughout the United
States—is helping to build a better young America.”

T. H. Williams, LCDR, USN,
Officer in Charge, Florida
Navy Recruiting District.

***

“We need not only supervised education such as is
offered in our schools and colleges, but also super-
vised recreation which is, fortunately, available to the
youth of Jacksonville through the facilities of the
Recreation Department. Here, the department has
built up a system whereby young people, regardless
of religious or idealogical ties, may come together to
compete, plan, and generally associate together in
unity.”

Aaron Leonard, Brentwood Playground
boy, now in University of Florida.

1! 1! *

“Many of our plans would still be in the paper stage
if it were not for the readily available facilities and
assistance of the Recreation Department.

“All of our contacts with the department have been
most agreeable and, on every occasion, we have found

316

the Staff members capable, courteous, and eager to
give their time and service to our projects. Especially
are we grateful for the annual Recreation Institutes
conducted by the department.”

District One Girl Scouts, Eleanor

J. Maultsby, Field Director.
at a: a:

“Had it not been for the training I received on the
playgrounds of Jacksonville, Florida, I would never
have been able to excel] in sports. I would never have
been able to go to college, nor would I have been
holding the position I am holding today. Thanks to
recreation and the able supervisors of the playground
and recreation department of Jacksonville.”

Abbie Carr Coleman, Director of Phys—

ical Education, Washington Park (Ne-

gro) High School, Lakeland, Florida.
* a: *

“Too often we take some of the finest parts of life
for granted. Although we may enjoy them, we seldom
stop to express our thanks for them.

“A few nights ago I had an evening off. I walked
down to the park near our church and got a surprise
of my life. I found approximately 100 boys and girls
playing the different games there in an orderly fash-
ion. I stood and thanked God that the boys and girls
of our community had such a clean nice place to spend
their leisure time. I even entered in a game with them.

“As I walked home, I lifted my heart up to God in
thanksgiving for the parks and playgrounds of our
city and I also wish to thank the men who are respon-
sible for them.” .

T. Newton Wise, Pastor,

Fair-field Methodist Church.
* a: a:

“It seems to be a unanimous opinion that yester-
day’s Field and Track Meet is outstanding as one of
the best—if not the very best—~ever held in the state.
This feeling is founded not alone upon the brilliant

performances of the participants, but the manner in
which it was handled.

“My explanation for the success of the enterprise is
found in the fact that we, of the School System, are
witnessing and experiencing the benefits of such close
harmony and cooperation between the department of
city government which you represent and our own en-

deavors along the line of promoting good and whole-
some recreation for our young people."

J. W. Gilbert, Principal, Robert

Lee Senior High School.
a: * *

Jacksonville’s other name is “The Gateway
City.” Its Hag shows the city seal, depicting Gen-
eral Andrew Jackson on a rampant charger, a
sprig of poinsettia, a large open gate and a scroll
bearing the name of the city. The open gate is
symbolic of the welcome awaiting visitors; the
brilliance of the flaming poinsettias indicates the
warmth of hospitality extended; and “Old Hick—
ory” is characteristic of the city’s rich and colorful
past, merging into a progressive, growing present
in a state bearing a name which is synonymous
with recreation.

RECREATION

 

Too Old to Dance—These words are taboo
in Corpus Christi, Texas. Once a week, during
the fall, winter and spring months, a large crowd
attends an “Old Time Dance” sponsored by the
recreation department. A five-piece band plays
waltzes, fox-trots and a variety of old favorites
for the “youngsters.” A few square dances are
also held at each meeting with music furnished by
the band or records. The dance is open to the"
public, but caters primarily to middle-aged and
older people. Some have passed their three-quarter
century mark, but when that orchestra strikes up
a tune, the chairs are left deserted, with practically
every couple swinging merrily around the floor.

High School Philatelists—-“Enjoy the King
of Hobbies with us,” invite members of the New—
town Stamp Club, a group organized last April at
Annex 89 of Newtown High School, Elmhurst,
Queens. Membership is open to all students pro-
vided that they belong to the General Organiza-
tion, attend eighty per cent of school activities,
pass in Scholarship and character ratings, and have
an avid interest in stamps. The philatelists meet
each week on Tuesdays from nine to nine-hfteen
am. not only to collect and swap stamps and to
enter them in exhibits, but also to study the his-
tory and background of stamps and to specialize in
this hobby. Students who take the one year course
offered by the American Philatelic Foundation,
and who pass its class tests and three-hour final
examination, are considered eligible for the Grad—
uate Certificate in Philately.

OCTOBER 1948

Wedding Bells—'Members of the Golden
Age Club in Kansas City, Missouri, attended a
traditional June wedding. The bride, aged sixty-
nine and the groom, seventy-nine, met during club
meetings and carried on their romance through its
program. The pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church, where the center is located, performed
the ceremony.

Reading on the Green—Montclair, New Jer—
sey, will have an outdoor Bookfair on the Green
in Edgemont Park during the first two weeks of
October. The latest books, with special emphasis
on those for children and young people, will be
shown by the Montclair library from noon to dusk
on Saturday and Sunday, October 2 and 3, and
again during the week-end of October 9 and IO.
Tables for the display of books will be arranged by -
subject and by age appeal, and consultants will be
on hand to assist with information.

Flowers That Bloom in the Fall—-—This year
marked the thirteenth time that the “largest gar-
den club in America” has exhibited the “largest
display of outdoor grown flowers in the country.”
The Pennsylvania Railroad Garden Club staged
its annual Fall Flower and Dahlia Show in Sep-
tember in Philadelphia’s Pennsylvania Station.
The event was divided into two divisions: one for
Garden Club members only, and the other for non-
member employees in the eastern area. Sections

were also arranged for the amateur and profes-
sional flower growers.

317

 

Mutual interest in bowling has taught Detroit boys to
look upon policemen as friends, not cops or enemies.

OWLING HAS LONG been recognized as a sport

for all ages and, beyond doubt, the increas-
ing popularity of the game during the past ten
years everywhere has been greatly stimulated by
the enthusiasm of our youth. Although they be
teen-agers, their game is adult in every reSpect.

However, not all teen-agers are able to enjoy
bowling at present prices, so a Detroit policeman,
Patrolman Norman Simmers, decided to do some-
thing about this. A devotee of the sport since early
youth, he determined that the boys in his precinct,
between the ages of fourteen and sixteen inclusive,
should not be denied this Opportunity. He there-
fore conceived, and has put into immediate prac-
tical operation, a plan that has taken hold in every
part of the city. From experience he knows that
boys have nothing in particular to do on Saturday
mornings, and that most bowling alleys are rarely
busy. So, he reasoned, why not permit the lads to
bowl at that time, at prices low enough merely to
cover alley expenses?

Patrolman Simmers talked over this idea with
the proprietor of one of the leading establishments
of his precinct. Everything soon was arranged.
Now his “boys” are bowling there Saturday morn-
ings at rates they can afford—practically half of
the usual cost for playing the game, rental of shoes,
and all the enticing tidbits offered at bowling al-
leys, including soda pop, candy, popcorn, and so
forth.

This was the beginning, in 1946, of teen-age
leagues in the McGraw district of Detroit. The
initial league had sixteen teams from different
schools and churches; while, in 1947, there were
two leagues of twenty—six teams. In addition, sev—
eral schools organized their own leagues, but their
members are privileged to join the other teams if

318

They Bowl
Cut-Rate

Rose D. Meyer

they so desire. To date fourteen more teams have
been established, and Patrolman Simmers visual—
izes a city—wide organization in the near future,
with leagues in every police precinct.

“More and more, understanding managers of
bowling alleys are expressing their willingness to
cooperate in the project,”-he explains. “I look
upon the bargain plan as an investment in the fu-
ture, and juvenile crime prevention oliicers feel the
same about it. It is as beneficial to bowling as it

is to the boys themselves.
“From the very beginning there always has been

'a fine turn-out of regulars and their many friends.

From time to time we provide instruction by ex-
perts in correct bowling technique. When I started
to bowl, boys didn’t have such advantages. At that
time we learned by the trial and error method—
the hard way. That’s why it’s such a fine thing to
have authorities talk to the boys informally nowa-
days. They thus learn to play with great finesse
and develop an interest and skill that will be car-
ried into maturity and used when they participate

in adult leagues.”
As one watches the eagerness and enthusiasm of

these teen-age bowlers it is surprising to observe
to what huge and beneficial proportions a simple
idea can deve10p. When Patrolman Simmers first
conceived his cut—rate plan he devoted his spare
moments to getting in touch with every church,
school, club and civic organization in’his precinct.
Favorable reaction was immediate and cooperation
promised; the response equally enthusiastic
among the neighborhood youngsters. Today you
will find Patrolman Simmers and several of his
fellow officers at some bowling alley in the district
every Saturday morning, interested spectators in
the play of the various teams.

RECREATION

 

Instruction by experts corrects youngsters’ technique.
This boy knows he must “mark” for his team to win.

“The idea has developed beyond my wildest
dream,” he comments. “Now I give only three
hours a week to my hobby, but every moment de-
voted to it so far has brought adequate compensa-
tion. What we’re doing in our precinct can be
duplicated anywhere throughout the nation.”

Aside from the personal gratification for high—
score achievement, there are other awards for the
many teams, which are greatly appreciated by the
boys. Last year, the first bowling alley proprietor
to agree to the reduced rate plan entertained, as
his guests, all of the boys of sixteen teams at a
Detroit Tigers’ baseball game. Labor unions do-
nate many of the trophies and T-shirts worn by
the boys. This year Patrolman Simmers planned
to hold competitive games among the winning
teams. He himself offers a team trophy and indi-
vidual trophies to the winners of the best teen—age
group in the city.

Some of his “boys” come from the better homes
of the district; some are from dead-end streets and
had been a problem for juvenile courts. However,
to him and the other officers of his station they are
just plain boys. Each man has learned from every-
day duty that no normal boy is really bad if he is
given an opportunity in a sympathetic, understand—
ing atmosphere. The names of these so-called de-
linquent members of the teams are known only to
the oflicers. To them and the other boys they are
all members of the same gang.

In this connection Mr. Simmers cites another
very satisfactory reaction to his plan. “Aside from
the wholesome enjoyment of the sport, and the
lasting friendships formed among the boys of the
various teams, there is the knowledge that our
boys do not look upon us as cops or as enemies.
They have come to regard us as their friends and
seek advice freely. Often their problem may seem

OCTOBER 1948

 

Patrolman Simmers’ cut-rate bowling plan found en-
thusiastic response; is relieving delinquency problems.

difficult. But after we have talked things over, we
soon get it solved to their entire satisfaction. In
this way they gain a new respect for the law and
at the same time their self-confidence is restored.”

So it would seem that, judged from any angle,
the bargain-rate bowling idea truly is an invest-

ment in the future.

Salute to Recreation

EACH SATURDAY, OVER a coast-to-coast radio net-
work, Red Barber’s “Clubhouse of the Air”
salutes a recreation organization and awards it a
certificate of good'citizenship and a one hundred
dollar check. Selection is made by employees of
affiliated stations of the Columbia Broadcasting
System who suggest their outstanding neighbor-
hood clubs, leagues, departments and the like, which
include sports as part of their activities and offer
youngsters the best recreational opportunities.

“Clubhouse of the Air,” inaugurated May 8,
1948, emphasizes the value of good sportsmanship
and citizenship, and attempts to call attention to the
field of youth recreation. The half-hour program
also features quiz shows for boys and girls and
prominent sports figures as guests.

319

Rural Recreation

A challenge for rural teach-
ers, this also carries a mes-
sage for recreation workers.*

David J. DuBois

W0 YEARS AGO, in March, I was discharged

from the Army. Too late to enter the winter
semester at graduate school and too weary from
three years of military existence to offer a valid
brief of objections, I quietly agreed to my wife’s
proposal that we spend the. interceding months
before the beginning of the fall term “taking it
easy” on her father’s ranch in the northeastern
part of Colorado:

City-born and raised, I uttered only a grumpy
sigh of regret at the thought of primitive plumbing
and no electricity. Military life with its slit
trenches, saddle trenches, and a variety of other
down-to-earth experiences had left me with a con-
siderable amount of pride in my ability to takeJit.

Like thousands of other apartment dwelling,
street car—riding, city adapted individuals trans-
planted to the country, I became thoroughly sold
on life in rural areas. In the five short months I
fed calves, branded steers, drove a tractor, scooped
grain, and took my baths in a wash tub, I came to
appreciate the pleasures and the hardships of farm
and rural people. Some day my wife and I will
transfer our growing'brood of youngsters to at
least five acres, and preferably five hundred, where
real personal growth and satisfaction is a greater
possibility.

When we do make that move to our ranch or
farm, I hope for our sake and the sake of hundreds
of thousands like us in Colorado and in every state
in the Union, for that matter, that the teachers in
the rural areas have done something to see that
one of the greatest unanswered needs of rural peo-
ple is more nearly met. That need is for recrea—
tion, the kind of recreation which enables people to
get together with their neighbors to have a good
time—to do those things together that give the
participants a feeling of having shared a worth-
while experience.

Recreation Needed for All
This kind of recreation is needed as badly for

the adults as for the youngsters. Members of the .

320

rural family fare much better than their brothers
in the city as far as outdoor recreation is con-
cerned. But only the very exceptional rural com-
munity so far has provided any kind of opportu-
nity for the young people, the adults, and the
families to gather on a community basis to dance,
play games, talk and visit, share hobbies and craft
activities, sing, participate in drama activities, im-
prove and share their knowledge of nature, and
participate in group athletic events.

Today, in most rural areas, recreation means
getting in the car and traveling ten to fifty miles
away to the nearest movie or dance hall, the big
rodeo or Fourth of July celebration. Because many
of the young people and the adults have never
known what it means to enjoy community gath-
erings, to meet their neighbors for evenings of folk
dances, games, parties, hobbies, and handcrafts,
drinking assumes an importance far beyond what
it does in urban areas. Liquor far too often be—
comes the substitute for the social activities which
normally bring pe0ple together in friendship.

Stop for a moment and consider the social life
of the people in your own rural community. Put
the commercial amusements, the dancing for the
sake of drinking, on the debit side. Add to the
credit side the 4-H Clubs, the work of the Exten-
sion Service, the occasional PTA meeting, a school
party or two and you have the sum total of rural
recreation in most localities today.

A recreational accountant, if there were such
a person, would balance most rural recreational
ledgers with red ink. Certainly educators -who
have talked for years of the well-rounded person-
ality, the good life, education for living, and func-
tional education must realize, and I’m sure that
most of them do, that the absence of a genuine
recreation program fitted to the needs of rural
areas constitutes a rather serious deficit in the life
of rural families.

What I’m saying here should be nothing new
to most rural teachers. You can no doubt provide
documentation for this thesis from your own per-
sonal experience. Perhaps you are acquainted with
the hndings of the National Conference on Pre-
vention and Control of Juvenile Delinquency called
by the Attorney General of the United States in
November of last year. It was estimated that sixty
per cent of the juvenile delinquents came from
rural areas. The conferees agreed that: The
youthful migrant to the city, faced with new ad-
justments to make, may not have received in his
rural life quite the training and experience needed

 

* Reprinted from The Colorado School Journal.

RECREATION

to successfully adjust to urban conditions.

That lack of training, the Conference reported,
was primarily in the natural association with
neighbors and friends in shared social experiences.
The Conference deplored the inadequate oppor-
tunities for social participation with friends, and
too much leisure with no good way of spending it
or not knowing how to do so.

Recent investigations have added to the accu-
mulated evidence that mental health in rural areas
is becoming a growing problem, that the ability
of rural youth to adapt to the armed services, to
large schools, and to urban life is less than that of
their urban brothers and sisters. There can be lit-
tle question but that the absence of planned social
recreation is one of the big reasons for these un-
fortunate developments.

I am deeply concerned in the development of
rural recreation as a citizen who accepts the re—
sponsibility that all gains and all losses of society
are shared equally by all members of that society.
As rural teachers you have an equal interest. You
are members of a rural community. You are mem-
bers of a profession whose objective is the develop-
ment of the whole individual, the reSponsible mem-
ber of society, the well-rounded individual.

As rural teachers you are in a better position
than anyone else in your community to promote
the development of rural recreation. In most cases
your school building is the only suitable location
for a recreation center. Your school board is in
many cases the only governmental body in the
community. You are frequently the only person
in the community equipped by training to organize
and administer any kind of a recreation program.

This does not mean that I am suggesting that'

you take on all the duties of a trained recreation

 

One of the 4-H activities of Florence County, South
Carolina. An outdoor roast sponsored by the Kiwanis.

OCTOBER 1948

specialist. I do not mean that in addition to teach-
ing a full day of classes you should also lead a
community drama group, teach social dancing, folk
dancing, and choral groups.

You Take the Lead

\V hat I am proposing is that you take the lead
in making your school building the center for
recreational activities in your community. School
buildings, after all, belong to all of the people, not
just the children, and not just during the school
hours. In some rural communities during the
winter months recreational activities could be car-
ried on five nights a week. Practically every com-
munity could provide folk dances, dramatics activ-
ities, teen-age dances, or handcrafts at least two
nights a week.

There is no end to the different kinds of recrea-
tion that a community could organize during the
long winter months when farm work is slack.
Movies could be obtained free or at a nominal
cost from a number of different sources. Agricul-
tural specialists could be brought in for evening
meetings to lead discussions on the latest develop—
ment in farming methods and techniques. Phono-
graph records of good music could be bought,
rented, or borrowed from a number of sources for
evenings of music enjoyment. Any community
will have pe0ple with some skills in dramatics,
handcrafts, dancing, singing, and nature study.
Most of these people would be eager to volunteer
their services as instructors and leaders.

Educate the Community

The big problem is the original one of educating
the school board, the adults and young people of
the community to the needs, the possibilities, and
the methods of conducting a recreational program.
School boards are often reluctant to appropriate
the necessary funds for electricity and coal to keep
the building open. There is the fear of property
damage and rowdiness. But the difficulties are in-
significant in comparison with ends to be achieved.

You can get valuable advice from the State
Extension Service, your County Agricultural
Agent, and the National Recreation Association.
This last organization publishes a pamphlet on
“Rural Recreation” (price 75c) which is invalu-
able. Write to them at 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, New York.

But in the last analysis, the success of a recrea-
tion program will depend upon your interest and
your ability to stimulate and organize your com-
munity. Yours is a moral obligation as a teacher
and as an effective member of your community.

321

“The polio epidemic was some-
thing unexpected in our vicinity . . .

99

Let Radio Sell Your Program

Mrs. Robert T. Whitaker

as 0 MASS ACTIVITIES for boys and girls sixteen

N years and under” was the polio cry of 1948.
This epidemic was something unexpected and
most disturbing in the vicinity of Durham, North
Carolina. The recreation department closed all
playgrounds, stopped all softball leagues, deferred
opening of the day camps, closed all swimming
pools, closed all youth centers, and began to scam—
per into old files to find ideas for home play.
Newspaper articles were published each day, a
home play bureau was set up in a recreation office.
and spot radio announcements told the children
that we would soon try a program over the air.

Radio turned out to be our best answer in this
emergency. Through this means we could have
small groups from the same neighborhood partici—
pate. The five local stations were all anxious to
broadcast our shows and help in any capacity. A
radio coordinator was hired by the department,
and each playground leader was given an oppor-
tunity to try his hand at two shows. Most all of
the leaders accepted—so we were off to a start on
a schedule involving the production of ten shows
a week. The city armory served as an auditioning
station, each group rehearsing at different times.
A format was decided upon, opening and closing
scripts written, and a theme song selected to give
all programs the same identity.

The first week of shows followed the idea of
home play. Games were taught over the air and
suggestions given for easy games to make at home.
Carryover values of playground activities were
brought to light; arts and crafts instruction was
given for simple projects; family nights were en-
couraged; storytelling revived; lists of books for

322

the various age levels were suggested; hobbies for
children were explained by individuals; and nov-
elty ideas for home parties were offered.

The second week featured dramatics. The Dur-
ham Theater Guild volunteered their services and.
plays were revised for radio presentation. Mem-
bers of the Guild coached individuals and worked
jointly with the children in productions. Local
adults also became enthusiastic and offered their
services for other plays. Radio stations helped the
directors with sound effects and made suggestions
for the scripts. In fact, everyone became radio con-
scious and the whole town was buzzing over the
five local stations. The boys and girls who actually
participated expressed their sincere thanks for an
opportunity to be on the broadcasts, and numbers
of them have asked for further radio experience.

The third week centered on talent. During this
period the teen-agers were in the spotlight. New
talent was discovered, and the radio stations made
lists of the abilities of the young people for future
reference.

The recreation department had recordings made
of the best shows. All stations put the shows on
tape whenever possible in order to give each per-
former an opportunity to hear a playback of his
own voice. This was a real treat for the young-
sters, some hearing themselves for the first time.

The only means that the department had of
knowing how many citizens the programs were
reaching was through the calls coming in to the
recreation office for other games and suggestions.
A number of these calls were answered. Citizens
requested that we continue talent and dramatic
shows this fall, so plans are being made in that
direction.

I am passing this information along to other
recreation leaders because I feel that every recrea-
tion department should sell its goods over the air.
It is excellent training for the performers, an
effective way of reaching everybody, and helpful
in establishing friendly working relationships with
the organizations in your city. Prizes are not
necessary for motivation; the fun and enjoyment
are the keys. A number of departments have done
some radio work, but they have followed a single
pattern. Now is the time to branch out and try
your hand at types of programs other than those
of “talent” shows, or of junior sports announcers.
The possibilities of radio are unlimited, and once
in the field it becomes fascinating.

Recreation should be kept constantly before the
public so that they will think and talk in terms of
recreation—certainly radio is a live means of ac-
complishing this end.

RECREATION

Recreation News

In Memoriam

The little playground in the 2400 block on
North Alder Street was rededicated on June 26th
as the Jeanne H. Barnes Memorial Playground.
The ceremony began with a parade, led by the
band of the American Woodmen Junior League,
with the Girl Scouts as color guard. The rededi—
cation was attended by Miss Margaret Barnes,
sister of Jeanne, citizens of the community, and a
large number of the boys and girls who use this
popular playground.

Dedication to a Leader

On August 17 of this year, the Colonel Ernest
G. Smith Memorial Playground and Wading Pool
was presented by Charles VVeissman to the City of
Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Colonel Smith, who
died December 27, 1945, had been one of the city’s
leading citizens; editor of the Times-Leader news-—
paper; and founder, as well as president, of the
Wyoming Valley Playground and Recreation As-
sociation.

Position with U.N.

Carl H. Milam, who served for nearly thirty
years as Executive Secretary of the American Li-
brary Association, has taken a position as direc-
tor of the United Nations Libraries. Leaders in
the National Recreation Association have worked
closely with Mr. Milam and have had an oppor-
tunity to see how much his wise, patient, states-
manlike leadership in the American Library As-
sociation has meant to the United States.

New Library Officer

John Mackenzie Cory on September first as—
sumed the office of Executive Secretary of the
American Library Association. Mr. Cory has been
Associate Librarian at the University of Califor-
nia; Director of Libraries at the University of
Alabama; Senior Library Specialist for the U. S.

OCTOBER 1948

Office of Education; and Chief of the Library Liai-
son Unit for the Office of War Information.

For a great many years the American Library
Association and the National Recreation Associa-
tion have worked in close cooperation.

Federal Surplus Property Available

Public Law Number 616, Eightieth Congress,
approved June 10, 1948, amends Section 13 of the
Surplus Property Act of 1944 “to provide for the
disposition of surplus real property to states, po-
litical subdivisions, and municipalities for use, as
public parks, recreational areas and historic monu-
ment sites.” Sites for use as parks or recreational
areas may be conveyed at fifty per cent of fair
value. ‘

The National Park Service has completed ar-
rangements with the War Assets Administration
to act as liaison agency between state park author-
ities and the War Assets Administration.

Other governmental authorities, including local
governments, should apply directly to the Regional
Office of the War Assets Administration for acqui—
sition of real property coming within the scope of
this act. After February 28, 1949, however, appli-
cations should be made to the Reconstruction Fi-
nance Corporation, as this responsibility will be
transferred to the RFC at that time.

Question of Unification

Youth Leaders Digest in its 1948 summer issue
has an article, “Shall the American Recreation So-
ciety Amalgamate with the American Institute of
Park Executives?” The editor of Youth Leaders
Digest had written to over 125 selected leaders to
secure their confidential reactions with reference
to the suggested amalgamation and also had talked
with many individuals personally. The results of
the correspondence and the conferences are re-
corded, ancl the editor has also printed quite a
number of letters pro and con.

323

Recreation

PROGRAM PLANNING

October Calendar

1. Plan a safe and sane Halloween celebration.
Why not have the schools, churches, P.T.A.’s,
mothers’ clubs, ex-servicemen’s organizations, and
even the police and firemen in your city, hold and
conduct neighborhood parties on Halloween? The
recreation department can help plan the program
of games and stunts. In small communities a town
parade or one party at a central place will be suc-
cessful. However, in larger communities, smaller
neighborhood parties will prove to be more satis-
factory. (See pages 300 to 303, in this issue of
RECREATION magazine.)

2. Begin now to plan a celebration for Chil-.

dren’s Book Week, November 14 to 20. Program
suggestions, advice on how to conduct a Book
Fair, posters, diSplay captions, selected book lists
for boys and girls, and other material available
free, or at low cost, from the Children’s Book

C ouncil, 62 W est 45th Street, New York 19, New
York.

3. Confer with the superintendent Of schools
regarding school facilities that may be available for
recreation use this winter.

4. Make preparations for artificial skating rinks
in October, before the first frost.

5. Start the organization of your basketball
leagues—sending out requests for permission tO
use the number of gymnasiums necessary for
games and practice.

6. Plan special celebrations .in observance of
United Nations Day, October 24—the third anni-
versary of the date on which the international
organization for peace was brought into being.

324

Suggestion

Box

 

TIPS ON ICE SKATING AREAS

SITE-—The rink should be level and located as
near as possible to a two-inch water supply, at
least. A three-inch fire hydrant is preferred. The
soil should be loam or clay. Do not try to flood
a sand or gravel area. Areas should be flooded
when the ground is sufficiently frozen tO retain
the water and during below-freezing weather. Do
not try to have a rink over a sewer or central
heat line because, after a while, the heat will thaw
any frost or ice in the ground above it.

CONSTRUCTION AND FLOODING—If you do not
have a natural pond, lake, sunken area, or a sur-
faced area with curbs, the easiest way tO construct
a skating rink is tO plow a deep furrow all around
the area to be flooded. Throw the plowed dirt in
a bank on the inside of the furrow. The ditch left
outside the bank will catch any seepage from the
rink. Tamp the bank, and when the ground is
sufficiently frozen, spray and freeze it thoroughly.
Flood the area lightly, about one inch Of water at
a time, until four to six inches of solid ice are
built up. If solid ice is obtained, it will remain
most of the season in spite Of thaws.

CAUTION—DO NOT FLOOD TOO SOON. If the
ground is not sufficiently frozen, the water will
seep away, leaving “shell ice” which must be dug
out before reflooding.

DO NOT PUT IN TOO MUCH WATER AT ONE TIME.

, For the first flooding do not try more than one

inch of water, even if the area is not entirely cov-
ered. Water seeks its own level, and subsequent
floodings will cover the entire area. Allow each
flooding to freeze solidly before giving it another
flooding.

Do NOT TRY TO FLOOD OVER SNOW, or soft’ “snow
ice” Will result. Snow and all ice cut by the skaters
must be removed or brushed Off before reflooding.

Do NOT TRY TO BUILD A BANK OF SNOW, ASHES
OR REFUSE. Banks Of this type will be most likely
tO wash out in a thaw.

RECREATION

Mininie Wagner

0N JULY 24, 1948, Minnie W'agner, known throughout Memphis, Tennes-
see, as “the playground lady,” died after a lifetime of service and devo-
tion to the children of her city.

Minnie Wagner became Superintendent of the Parks Recreation Depart-
ment of Memphis in 1927, but she had served on the playgrounds since 1915.
In 1947 she retired, becoming superintendent emeritus.*

Leaders from many other cities came to see her work and did not go away
disappointed. Always there was a quality of imagination, of creativeness, of
youth participating, of newness, of something different. She was a miracle-
worker on the playground because she loved the children, gave herself so
completely to them, made herself one with them.

Among the many means of providing byways for adventure, discarded
airplanes, hrmly anchored on the playgrounds, gave children an opportunity,
in imagination, to fly to distant parts of the earth.

The Illemphis Press—Scimitar wrote of her: “To the hundreds—yes, thou-
sands—of Memphis children, it always seemed that Miss Minnie had a magic
wand and a magic carpet. \Vith her wand, she could touch the most drab
playground and make it flame with color and sparkle with precious jewels, a
land of enchantment.

“Gingham dresses and blue jeans turned to silks and satins, purple velvet
and ermine, damask and cloths of gold. And away_everybody Hew on the magic
carpet to a thousand places that ordinary
mortals can never visit—the land of make-
believe and of Never-Never, of Winnie the
Pooh and the Wizard of 02.”

Miss Minnie believed with Robert Louis
Stevenson:

“Happy hearts and happy faces,
Happy play in grassy places——
That was how, in ancient ages,
Children grew to kings and sages.”

—-

 

'The Qctober 1946 issue of RECREATION carried a five Miss Minnie Wagner “i
page article on the work being done on the Memphis

 

n conference,” devising means of bring-

playgrwnds under the leadership of Minnie Wagner. ing happy adventures to children on Memphis playgrounds.

OCTOBER 1948

325

326

public service.

REMINDER

(Gamay Mafzéen Maw/re.)

THE TURN or SUMMER into fall is
Nature’s most poignant reminder of
another year gone by.

It’s a reminder that should make
you think, seriously, that you your-
self are a year closer to the autumn
of your own particular life.

What steps have you taken . . . what
plan do you have . . . for comfort and
security in those later years?

You can have a very definite plan
—one that’s automatic and sure.

If you’re on a payroll, sign up to
buy U. S. Savings Bonds on the Pay-
roll Plan, through regular deductions
from your wages or salary.

If you’re not on a payroll but have
a bank account, get in on the Bond-
A—Month Plan for buying Bonds

through regular charges to your
checking account.

Do this . . . stick to it . . . and every
fall will find you richer by even more
than you’ve set aside. For your safe,
sure investment in U. S. Savings will
pay you back—in ten years—$100
for every 375 you’ve put in.

'AUTOMATIG SAVING
IS SURE SAVING-

us. savmes BONDS

 

RECREATION

In the Field . . . '
John “7. Faust '

 

WENTY-FIVE YEARS ago last June, a tall young

man gave up the general secretaryship of
Associated Charities in Pittsburgh, and came to
New York to join the staff of the National Recre-
ation Association. This was the genial, blue-eyed
John W. Faust, who still retains his youthful
enthusiasm, and who is now such a comfortably
familiar figure among all those with whom he has
worked, both at headquarters and in the field.

It might be interesting here to note that the
two attributes common to really successful recrea-
tion workers—those attributes which seem to act
as deciding factors in drawing them into the recre-
ation field—are: a truly sincere love of peOple;
and a desire to be of service to their fellow human
beings. John Faust is no "exception, and these
factors always have influenced his decisions at the
turning points of his life.

For instance—although before leaving Pitts-
burgh he had been offered a more financially re-
munerative job with Community Chests, he pre-
ferred to eschew the more attractive salary, and
the prospect of working with funds, in favor of
the opportunity to work directly with peOple.

Actually his first step in this direction had been
made when, upon graduation from Union College
in Schenectady, New York, he matriculated as a
student at Johns HOpkins Medical School. After

OCTOBER 1948

' two years there, however, he was forced to take

an eye—furlough from his studies. Having had a
taste of social casework medicine, it was most
natural that he should offer his services to the
Associated Charities in Baltimore. It filled his re-
quirements of life—to “justify the space one occu-
pies.” In 1913, Howard Braucher of the National
Recreation Association became familiar with his
work and wrote him suggesting that, at anytime
he might be interested, there would be a place for
him in the National Recreation Association.

After Baltimore, Mr. Faust joined the staff of
social agencies in Washington, D. C. In 1916, he
became General Secretary of the Associated Char—
ities in the Oranges and Maplewood, New Jersey.
Later he was given leave from that area to serve
with the Red Cross, when that organization asked
for seven men to work out techniques for care of
soldiers’ families for Red Cross chapters in that
many states. He continued working with the Red
Cross, becoming associate manager of the Penn-
Delaware Division until it combined with the At-
lantic Division, at which time he became Assistant
Manager. When the division closed he went to
Pittsburgh as General Secretary of the Associated
Charities. While there, he organized Pittsburgh’s
first Council of Social Agencies.

His last move, from the social casework field in
Pittsburgh to the National Recreation Association,
he explains as follows: “Families kept coming
back to us who, actually, were just above the de—
pendency line. However, there was no one else
to whom they wanted to turn for advice. I felt
that instead of advising them, why not be working
with one of the organizations who were fulfilling
such non-relief needs? Why stand on shore and
salvage when one could be directing to safe chan-
nels from a lightship, out where things were hap-
pening ?” _

John Faust attended the N.R.A. School in Chi—
cago; and, along with Jimmy Rogers, was among
the first to be loaned to the Federal‘ Security
Agency to organize recreation work. He served
as eastern field representative in North Carolina
and as regional director in Pennsylvania, Dela-
ware, and New Jersey. One of his jobs as an

.N.R.A. staff member, of which he is understand-

ably proud, is his service, as recreation chairman,
from 1925 to 1946, on the board of the National
Congress of Parents and Teachers:

To hear  \V. Faust talk enthusiastically about
his work, one would never guess that, in order to
do the required traveling, he had found it neces-
sary to give up an avocational interest which had
meant a great deal to him. That interest was sing-

327

Emphatically—

Ihe "LAST WORD”
in buskeibulls

Up and down the basketball floors of ment that is preferred by the most skillful and
America the balls illustrated here are critical “big-time” stars of this great sport. Wilson
accepted as the finest of their kind. Oficial basketballs, footballs, volley balls and
They’re “All-Americans” in any soccer balls are the LAST WORD in modern
school or college, or in any profes- design, balance, playing feel and durability. The
sional league. market offers nothing finer. See your Wilson

So, when you choose Wilson LAST-BILT or dealer. Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago,

TOP-NOTCH baSketballs You Will have equip- New York and other leading cities.
{A Wilson 3! Co., lnc. subsidiary)

[Um

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 
 
      

shn'

a:
it

 
 
     
   

h

   

i

J!

'1'.

 
 
    

 
   

. ’5 t in; "" T*I“"H *“P't iii
'"‘ 3:05 . {12% wavy is a. ’t u 3'
r'D‘Nrif ‘

  

aw”.

I '5' ‘f’

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

ing. Upon his graduation from college, he also
was graduated from the Schenectady Conservatory
of Music and, while in medical school, he studied
at Peabody on a special scholarship in voice. Until
eight years ago, he did professional singing in
church and oratorio groups. His last fling in this
direction covered a period of eight years, when he

was an active member of the Orpheus Club in
Newark, New Jersey.

However, an interest even dearer to his heart
is one which has been heightened by the fact that
he is the father of four girls and two boys—today
all grown and married. (Says he, “We are now at
the dividend stage”) This is the fun that he gets
out of associating with young people—boys and
girls in the sixteen to twenty—five year age group
for “their ideals are not yet tarnished; they still
can see the Grail—and the moonlight. They renew
the spirit.” He feels that adults so often fail to
discover these young adults, to walk gently among
them, Instead, such adults—who knew Johnnie
at six, and at ten—are so busy thinking of him

as a child, that they fail to see the young adult
emerging.

About eighteen or twenty years ago, Mr. Faust
was asked by a minister to see what he could do
with the youth in his church. It is not surprising
that he was unusually successful in working with
the chief trouble-makers. He had learned from his
own parents that the most potent tool in dealing
with youth is to “love them through.” The Youth
Council, which he helped this group to form, be-
came a force for good in the church.

Through experience Mr. Faust has learned that
“if one works with them, with humility, ‘militant
affection’——-which enables one to kindly and affec-
tionately admonish—and with a belief in their
aspirations, one can get anywhere.” He_is particu-
larly proud of the fact that, although a grey-
haired Associate Superintendent of the Sunday
School, he was elected by these same young peo—
ple as advisor of their youth council for the next
eight years. Two years ago they elected him as

their representative on the Religious Education
Council.

Foremost of all, as no doubt has been gathered
from the foregoing, John W. Faust is a family
man.—a person whose lirst interest is in the home,
his own home and other pe0ple’s homes. In his
community work he has done much to help people
understand the importance of the home as the center
of living, and to help them relate this understand-
ing to the importance of community recreation.

OCTOBER 1948

Easy Musical Games
For Home and School

FOLLOW THE MUSIC

By LOTTIE ELLSWORTH Corr
and RUTH BAMPTON

YOUNG CHILDREN naturally want to “do

something” about music. The best way to en-
courage their interest is to suggest that they
“act out” the songs and tunes that appeal to
them.

Here is a new collection of easy musical games that
children will enjoy immediately and that will help
them through their first steps in music. With these
pleasurable activities, they will eagerly respond to
group-activity suggestions, reveal latent capacities,
and achieve rhythmic co-ordination through play. . . .
Oldtime childhood favorites, new rhythm and finger
games, listening material, play-party games. For the
individual child as well as for small or large groups.
. . . Illustrated in color by Martha Powell Setc$hell.

2.00

Show this to your local music
or book store or write

C. C. BIRCHARD & CO.

285 COLUMBUS AVENUE, BOSTON 16, MASS.

 

   
  

L. i ‘a: ‘_ 
_ LEFT DEEP IN THE OCEAN
f“ FOR 6 MONTHS, A von‘

BASKETBALL EMEROEO
GOOD AS MEMWHILE THE

ms PERFORM/ME 0F           _+  %“§éa%“£IIS€39’ 
SSS w/I/IEP/MS' r/A/Esr  4  ' " ' ~' ‘~ ~ .. :
Omar/O EQWPMEIVI‘ »

 
 
      
       

 
  
 

AFTER DRO?PINGI0,000  ‘ L
FEET (ALMOST Two MILES) - v »
7  , THE ONOAMAOEO VOIT FOOTBALL
. ,_ . ' STILL MET OFFICIAL STANDARDS
    FOR WEIOHT.SHA?E.san AND
PERFORMANCE.

  
    
 
 

  

   

J

AFTER 3 MONTHS IN AN OKLAHOMA
woman-TA vonr BASKETBALL WAS
FOUND IN PERFECT CONDITION ANO
PLAYED mm AGAIN BY STUDENTS.

      
   
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
  

LVQQ  IO0.000 LLS. SCHOOLS.GAM?S,
.. INDUSTRIAL LEAOuES AND

133% PLAYGROUNDS 59£0IFY VOI‘I“
*T  BALLS-20 YEARS OF ATH-
g‘u .  r» .. LETIC FIELD EXPERIENCE
RE)  HAVE mover: THEIR su-

m: PERIORITY OVER ANY OTHER

{1’ TYPE OF BALI. EVER sum.

sum LIKE A RACING- TIRE...

EVERY VOIT BALI. I5 FABRIc

LINE!) T0 WITHSTAN‘D suc-

OESSFuLLY THE MOST GROEL- 
me PUNISHMEM'. ‘2}; ;

 

1  I

we 01’ TO SIX ORDINARY
 ANY PLAYING SURFACE-

R
OIT MAKES (TRAVEL. NDLOT O
XSPHALT V WELL AS INDOO

ECONOMICAL PRAGTIOAL F0

  
 

:RE‘MEMOER.’ 90/7-

1. WEARS UP TO SIX TIMES AS 5. BACKED BY 25 YEARS OF RE-
lONG- SEARCH, TESTS AND ACTUAL USE.

2. MEETS OFFICIAL STANDARDS.
6. USED BY OVER 100,000

3' 5‘3"” PR°°F- SCHooLS, PLAYGROUNDS AND
4. WATERPROOF — WASHABLE. CAMPS.

 

 

ér-ér33 0 Ir <<<<<+<~<

NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, [OS ANGELES I I

W cfzmaa/Mé'a 

 

330 . RECREATION

lln Intellectual Heritage

Morris Kellerman

ACK IN THE days when men first began to try
B to record their thoughts on the walls of caves,
writing was such a painstaking job that reading
was not cultivated to any extent. At a later date,
the Chinese made the first wood blocks from which
printing was done. The Egyptians followed with
a system of hieroglyphics, which were cut into
stone and used architecturally and decoratively.

In the more advanced countries, monks and
priests became the writers, recorders and libra—
rians of their time. But one day in the year 1454,
in Mainz, Germany, modern printing was born
and the world’s first and most lasting best seller—
the Bible—began to roll off the presses. The
world-at-large got its chance to go to school, and
to enjoy reading, at long last.

Cradled in a democratic tradition, America took
the challenge of mass education literally. New
England pioneer communities counted public libra-
ries as necessities long before they worried about
the city water supply. The chain of missions which
were strung from the Gulf of Mexico to the Cali-
fornia coast were educational outposts in the wil-
derness—the public libraries of the prairies.

Reading soon became more than a formal school
habit: and the invention of the electric light helped
the cause along, too. But “ye goode olde American
enterprise" was not satisfied with public libraries
for only half the people, or with trying to sell
books to people who could not afford to buy them.
And so was born the commercial lending library.
Books started rolling out over the country roads.
down the main streets of America, and for three
or five cents a day you could read all you wanted.

Today, the library idea is reaching the farthest
limits of expansion. Lending libraries are being
installed in offices and industrial plants, where
large masses of workers can avail themselves of
library services without any cost to them. Recrea-
tion committees are now adding libraries to their
equipment for use in programs. iooks are being
placed in trucks and driven to playgrounds; hous—
ing projects, rural areas.

A library unit is a worthwhile educational proj-
ect, creating a tremendous amount of good-will,
and at a negligible cost. Books" offer a splendid
opportunity to bring leisure time enjoyment, in-
formation and the “intellectual heritage of the
ages” to everyone.

OCTOBER 1948

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
    
 
 
     

 

DIAMOND

SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for "amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
O

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard OFlicial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Staltes and OFiicial

Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN

sronrs Eumrmr " .

in every field of sport in Protes-

sional. SemioPro and Amateur Baser

ball and Softball, in Universities.

Colleges and High Schools, in Mu-

nicipal and industrial Recreation. ,
MaeGregor-Goldsmith Sports

Equipment is recognized as a hall-

mark of quality and unvarying

pertormancm

4‘.

 fag/oz yous“ .7226: -:-.=.-:'::.; 

,I-II.
“nun-i
C’N""NNA1I i4. OHIO. u. 3.1.

   

Every important major league baH'ing record
has been made with Louisville Slugger bats.
Be sure to look for the signature of a
champion on the bat you buy . . . and you'll

be sure to get a genuine Louisville Slugger.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO.
LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY

This popular ball resists the wear and tear of every kind“ of rough surface. 'It combines
quality with economy for top performance. 1. r. r The, patented cover formilla and processing
adds years to its life. Another “Best by Test” reason for specifying Wintark. Official in
weight, shape and size—it has beauty and balance. A-TOP PERFORMER in "play and economy.

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

WEAVER WINTARK SALES C0. p.of“£‘§§'§fiss23:5“351'H‘s’l'é53‘3s‘wmiifm.

 

333 RECREATION

New York. Price $.25 an issue; $3.00 for one year

subscription.
° Community Organization, It’s Nature and Setting.
MagaZlneS and Pamphlets American Association of Social Workers, l_30 East
Recently Received Containing Articles of 22nd Street, New York 10, New York. Price $.25.

Leadership for Horizon Club. Prepared by the Pro-

gram Department of the Camp Fire Girls, Incorpor-
ated, 16 East 48th Street, New York 17, New York.

Price $.35. . . _ .
School Adtivities Apri11948 1948 Official Softball Rules. Write to Hillerich and

B d b C , Louis 'lle, Kentuck .
An Arbor Day Program, Gretchen C. Trumpp. Bea?! {in-2; Pg‘gf’aMn-zl’y 1948 W Y
Are Your Dances Organized?, Maynard B. Henry.

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

- Considerations in Designing an Outdoor Swim—
Beach and Pool, April 1948 .
Modern Methods of Pool Sanitation, Fred A. lemg P?§liéiughVI‘\J/I.thClutr% P t H
Spongberg. inningB ekhampt a er ron rogram, ar ,
How to Use a Modern Water Analyzer for Chem- A h.t Itme l {2911 é”?- 1948
' 1 Control Tests F. R. McCrumb. re 1 cc “fa -ec°r ’ une .
P123311ng the Camp' Waterfront Program, Anne Plat/Ewing the Church Community Center, Elbert
Bronkhorst. ° Con-over-

Journal of Health and Physical Education, April 1948
Safety at the Camp Waterfront, Betty Spears.
Better Riding, A Rating Plan' for Instructors,

Harriet H. Rogers.
Sports and Physical Education in France, Georges
Belbenoit.

Parents Magazine, May 1948

Fishermen Are Made, Not Born, Carmen Stone
Allen.
Give Your Child Music, James L. Mursell.

Camping Magazine, April 1948

How Good Is Your Riding Program?, Albert I.

 

Drachman. Don't buy until you see our free. illustrated catalog. Write Today!
What Parents Expect from Camp, Bradford M. .

Bentley.
Publishing a Camp Paper, David L. R. Jeffreys. W
Setting the Campcraft Stage, Catherine T. Ham— .

mett, sports equnpment to.

Th léhe Clang élgie,fr..lElr91zeSSt Harms. 1 rouo DU LAC, WISCONSIN r
e rippe , 1311
The Trend in Camping, Thelma Patterson. “"051 2 "W (“mm 0‘ “ADERSMP

Parks and Recreation, May 1948

 

 

For Youth and Man—Park Casting Pool, John E. ‘
Ca s s teve ns .  , _
Safer Places to Play a Detroit Objective, J. J.

Considine.
The Maintenance Mart.
The Nation’s Schools, April 1948
Improvements for Leisure Time Activities Sug-
gested by Junior High School Groups, Esther
M. Andersen.

Recreation Facilities and Negro-White Relations in
Philadelphia, Bureau of Municipal Research, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania, December 1947.

The Group Living of Children, Citizens’ Committee
On Children of New York City, Incorporated, 136
East 57th Street, New York 22, New York.

Cities and Riverfront Lands, York.Willbern. Bureau
of Public Administration, University of Alabama.

Proceedings of the Second Annual Great Lakes Park
Training Institute, held at Pokagon State Park, An-
gola, Indiana, February 23 to 27, 1948. May be
obtained from Garrett G. Eppley, Chairman, De-
partment of Recreation, Indiana University, Bloom—
ington, Indiana. Price $2.00.

Sports and Recreation Facilities, Stewart G. Case and
O. T. Trenary. Extension Service, Colorado A. and
M. College, Fort Collins, Colorado. Price $.25.

Think on These Things, June Purcell Guild. Some
Black-White Problems as Seen by a Group of
Negro Southerners. Schauer Publishing Company,
Santa Barbara, California. Price $1.00.

Christmas in Latin America. Pan-American Union, Thru Lead'ng
Washington, D. C. Price $.10.

Geigd Educactign for Young fhildren, Revised Edition. -    n ,   Athlehc G°°ds

ew Yor tate Council or Early Childhood Edu- "  H 3;;  ° '

cation, Box 93, Queens College, Flushing, New    .   -   D'sh'buh’”
York. Price $.60 single copies; $.25 lots of 100 copies.

Soccer. United States Soccer Football Association.

3$2205 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York. Price I. 

15w: Invisr )5: "My: FIILD .I
MANUFACIUIING COM'ANY I 57. IOUIS 3 MO.

I

  

I  o C 0
First Chalce

for

Every Sport!

Available

 
  
      
   

Story Parade. A monthly magazine for boys and girls.
Send your order to Story Parade, Poughkeepsie,

     

OCTOBER 1948 333

thcers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

Authors in This Issue

JAMES FORD BELL—Business leader; committee

chairman, Finance and technologlcal progress, Gen— OFFICERS
eral Mills, Minneapolis, Minn. Article on page 398.
. - ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
JOSEPH BRISLINmDirector of Recreation De— HOWARD BRAUCUER’ President
partment, Barre, Vermont. Article on page 302. Mus. OGDEN L. Mints, Second Vice-President
, , SUSANM. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
DAVID J. DUBOIS—Program and Traming Ad— Ann“, M_ MASSIE, Treasum

visor, Parks and Playgrounds Department, Seattle, GUSTAV“ T- KIRBY’ Treasurer Emeritus

\Vashington. Article on page 320.

. - DIRECTORS
WADE HAWKINS—Supermtendent of Recrea—
tion, Reading, Pennsylvania. Article on page 295. 1:, w. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
JOHN HIGGINSmMenlbeI' of Board of Park F- GREGG BEMIS: Boston: Mass-
_ _ EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.
Trustees. Elkhart, Indiana. Artlcle on page 300. MERGE“, WOODS Buggwahinmnypi C.
MORRIS KELLERMAN—President of American HOWARD BRAUCHER, MW York: N. Y:-
. . . MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonvrlle, Fla.
Lendmg lerary. Artlcle on page 302. WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
NATHAN M.ALLISON-——-Director of Recreation, HARRY P - DAWSON, N ?W Yorkv N. Y
. . . ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
Jacksonv111e, Florlda. Artlcle on page 302. ROBERT GRANT, 3H1, Jericho, L_ L, N. y_
ROSE D. MEYER—Associate Editor of Outwit- AUSTIN E-GRIFFITHS: SeattlevWash-
. . . MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
fmg Handicaps. Artlcle on page  MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
ROBERT MOSES—Chairman, New York State MRS- JOHN D. Jameson, Bellport, L. 1., N. Y.
_ . SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.
Counc11 of Parks. Article on page 306. Ono T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
BETTY REDWINE—Teen-age recreation leader, Co“ 15- MILLIKEN’ Augusta. Me-
_ MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
Jefferson County, Kentucky. Artlcle on page 304. PAUL MOORE, JR" New York, N. Y. r-
RIRS. ROBERT  VVHITAKER-HDiI'eCtOI', Wom- MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif. i
, . , . . . . GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.
en 5 and Glrls Act1V1t1es, Recreation Department, J_ C_ WALSH, New York, N. Y.

Durham, North Carolina. Article on page 322. FREDERICK M-WARBURGiNeW YorkiN-Y-

.3

Do you have these two
publications on facilities?

0 A Guide for Planning Facilities tor AthleticsI
Recreation, Physical and Health Education

SQUARE
DANCE
RECORDS

A guide for school superintendents, park and rec-
reation leaders, health and physical administrators,
engineers, community leaders. Sponsored by the
National Facilities Conference. 125 pages, $1.50.

0 College Facilities ’tor Health ServiceI Health
Education. Physical Education, and Recreation

Without Calls

Otters specific help to those planning new facilities
such as gymnasia or field houses, making additions,
developing suitable recreation facilities in outdoor
areas. Sponsored by the Committee on Standards
for Facilities of the College Physical Education As-
sociation and the College Committee of the Na-
tional Facilities Conference. 133 pages, $2.00.

Order from

American Association for Health,

Physical Education, and Recreation
|20| lbth Street, NW, Washington 6, D; C.

P. S. You will also be interested in the official souvenir
of the XIV Olympiad. 196 pages in color on history
and descriptions of past and present Games. $1.10.

Write for Catalogue R-I

FOLKRAFT RECORDS

7 OLIVER STREET
Newark 2, N. J.

 

334 RECREATION

 

How Girls Grow

By Frances P. Arnold, Margaret B. Ferreira and
Doris V. Wilson. Published by the Girls’
Friendly Society, U.S.A., 386 Fourth Avenue,
New York. $.50.

HESE PAMPHLETS ARE designed to help the
leaders of girls’ clubs develop a program which
enables the girls to work over their own problems
and to arrive at a better understanding of them-
selves and the world around them. This is done
through creative dramatics, a means of expressing
one’s own thoughts and feelings through actions
and words. It is a creative experience which the
leader shares with her group. The suggestions for
these activities are simple enough to be adopted by
leaders with little or no training in dramatics, and
can do much to help vitalize their program.
H 0w Girls Grow is issued in two forms: one for
juniors from seven to fourteen years of age, and
one for teen-agers; so when ordering, specify your

age group.
Beginner’s Guide to Wild Flowers

Ethel Hinckley Hausman. G. P. Putnam’s Sons,
New York. $3.50.

AT LONG LAST, here’s a book for those of us who

don’t know botany, or botanical names, but
would like to learn the names of the flowers we
find in the woods and on the roadsides. The book
is divided into five sections, based only on the
color of the flower—white or whitish, yellow or
orange, pink or red, blue or violet, green or brown.
Just turn to the prOper section, look over the line
drawings of flower, leaves and stem—and there
you are! Mrs. Hausman not only makes it easy
to fin the iiower, but also gives a full description

OCTOBER 1948

N ew Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

' of it, its habitat, season, and its botanical name.

The illustrations, three on a page, are all clear,
and in black and white. The author suggests that
we color them as we identify a flower, and the
book is printed on paper that will accept such
coloring. The book also contains an excellent
index, with markings to indicate which flower
should be picked sparingly or not at all. It is a
“must” for everybody, young or old, who loves
flowers and would like to know them better.

Camp Site Development

By Julian Harris Salomon. Published by the Girl
Scouts of the U.S.A., New York. $4.00.

HIS BOOK MEETS the need for a practical guide

to the planning and construction of a children’s
camp. In addition to a consideration of the basic
factors in preparing camp site plans, it deals with
such essential subjects as water supply, sewage
disposal, roads, electric lines, camp buildings,
swimming pools, docks, and other aquatic facilities.
Its fifty-three, full-page, large-scale plates clearly
illustrate construction details for a wide variety of
structures and facilities. Mr. Salomon, an author-
ity on camp planning and administration, has sum-
marized in this volume, useful, practical, up-to-
date information that should be of interest and of
value to all concerned with the field of camping.

Where To Get What

Edited by Toni. Published by Penland School of
Handicrafts, Penland, North Carolina. $.2 5.

RE YOU OFTEN confused by the many catalogues
A and books on handcraft and craft supplies?
This directory, in the revised and enlarged 1948
edition, is a sage and accurate guide.

335

Recreation Training Institutes

Corrected Schedule for October and November 1948

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS

Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON

Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER

Creative Recreation

336

Dallas, Texas
October 4-8

Lawton, Oklahoma
October 11-15

Texarkana, Texas
October 18-22

Chattanooga, Tennessee
November 1-5

Oak Ridge, Tennessee
November 8-12

Wilmette, Illinois
November 15—19

St. Louis, Missouri
November 29—December 3

Maryland
October 11-15

Martinsburg, West Virginia
November 1-2

Prince Frederick, Maryland
November 8—12

La Plata, Maryland

Wichita, Kansas
October 4-8

Clovis, New Mexico

October 11-15

El Paso, Texas
October 25-29

San Antonio, Texas
November 1-5

Corpus Christi, Texas
November 8-12

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
November 15-19

Wichita Falls, Texas
November 29—December 5

Macon, Georgia
October 11-15

Atlanta, Georgia
October 18—29

Chase City, Virginia
October 4-8

Kilrmarnock, Virginia
October 11—15

Rustburg, Virginia
October 18—22

Danville, Illinois
November 8-19

Mrs. Margaret Cone, Dallas Housing Authority, 2525
Lucas Drive, Dallas,'Texas

Mrs. Edward Worthen, 1330 Ash Street, Lawton,
Oklahoma

Mrs. Alice White, Manager, East Hooks Courts,
Hooks, Texas

J. Edward Harg'raves, Director, Public Utilities,
Grounds and Buildings, Chattanooga, Tennessee

T. R. Jarrell, Director of Recreation, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee

Russell Perry, Superintendent, Recreation Board, 726
Ridge Road, Wilmette, Illinois

A. H. Wyman, Executive Director, Park and Play-
ground Association, 613 Locust Street, St. Louis

Miss Ethel E. Sammis, State Department of Educa-
tion, Lexington Building, Baltimore, Maryland

é/Irs. Charles Rehfuss, Field Director, American Red
ross

H. R. Hughes, Superintendent of Education, Calvert
County -

F. Bernard 'Gwynn, Superintendent of Education,
Charles County

Mrs. Elizabeth Flautt, 3801 Ross Parkway, Wichita,
Kansas

Ian D. Mactavish, P. O. Box 589, Clovis, New Mexico

rErnest F. Craigo, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Lou Hamilton, Director of Recreation
W. P. Witt, Superintendent of Recreation

Alvin Eggeling, Superintendent of Recreation
Mrs. Henry W. Barton, 2002 Gariield Avenue

Mrs. Juanita S. Black, Director, Social Service De-
partment, Bibb Manufacturing Company

Miss Virginia Carmichael, Director of Recreation

James Gilliam, Southern Aid Building, Third and
Clay Streets, Negro Organization Society, Richmond,
Virginia

Mrs. Esther Warden, 1310 North Gilbert Street, Dan—
ville, Illinois

I

RECREATION

i
2

3:21. %WW%&&W%&%WWWWW%%W%%WM

Wu-

Looking Ahead

"Jingle Bells" migh’r sound sl'range lo your ears in Oc’rober. bu’r +here's no’rhing slrange aboqu
planning for Chris’rmas a’r Jrhis early dale. To save a lol 01‘ rush and worry—and +o work up some
really special ideas for Yule+ide plays. par+ies. decora’rions—here is a lis+ of helpful publicarions
which may be ob’rained irom +he Na’rional Recreaiion Associa’rion. 3l5 Four’rh Ave.. New York IO.

N. Y. Please send s’ramps. check or money order. and be sure +0 give Jrhe MP or MB order number.

Chrisfmas Is Fun

Chris’rmas Fairs (MB 984)—ldeas for inexpensive

gii’rs and ac’rivi’ries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .05
Chrisimas Kaleidoscope. A (MB 95l—A dance

ies’rival {or large number of children . . . . . . . . . . .05
Chrisimas Par’ry. A (MB I420l—Games and gii’r

dis’rribu’rion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Chris’rmas Sugges’rions for Children (MB 796)—

Le’r ’rhe children in on ’rhe planning . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Dickens' Chrisimas Spirif (MB I268l—ldeas ior

parlies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Games. Games. Games +0 Make Your Chris’rmas
Merry (MB |827)—Seven games ’ro liven up
your par’ry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Ice-Breakers and Games for Chrisl‘mas (MB I435) .05
Mixers for Chrisimas Dances and Par’ries (MB

I425) . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Polar Chris’rmas Par’ry. A—A par’ry wilh an Arc’ric
iheme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l0

51‘. George PlayI The (MP sol—A rollicking farce .l0
Some Chris’rmas Quiz Sugges’rions (MB |422)-—-

Four quizzes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Ways ’ro Disiribu’re Small Chris’rmas Gif’rs (MB
|587) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Chrisfmas Is Colorful

Chris’rmas Novel’ries for Everyone—Ornamen’rs.

decora’rions. and ihe like . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10
Chrisi‘mas Tree Ornamen’rs from Egg Shells (MB
ll33) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Chris’rmas Windows (MB 586l—Use of cello-
phane. oiled paper. and so ior’rh. ’ro brigh’ren

up ’rhe windows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Cu’r’ring Chris’rmas Greens (MB l264)—Going

ai’rer greens. making wrea’rhs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
GiH's and Gadge’rs Made of Paper (MP 297)—

ldeas for gii’rs and decora’rions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l5
Joyous Noel (MB l825)—Chris’rmas decora’rions

ior ’rhe ’rables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05

Make Your Chris’rmas Colorful (MB |828)-——-
Chemicals ’ro use for adding color lo Jrhe fire-

place . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05
Sugges’rions for Novel Chrisimas Cards (MP 290) .05
Toys {Or Children (MB l896) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

You Can Make Your Chrisimas Cards (MB 607). .05

Chrisfmas Is Serious

Chris’rmas Carol Leafleis . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..per |00 .80

Chrisimas Cus’roms and Legends Around ’rhe
World (MP 255l—Told in pan’romime ‘Form... .l0

Chris’rmas Pagean’r. A (MP 378l—A pageani {or

small children. wi’rh music and dances . . . . . . .. .15
Fes’rival of Ligh’r—Narra’ror. pan’romime. carols. . . .l0
Here We Go A-Caroling (MB l897) . . . . . . . . . . . .05

Hin’rs ior Chris’rmas in Church or School (MB

I899) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Joy lo ’rhe World (MB l585i—A pageani ‘lor
church . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Seven Gii’rs. The (MP 369l—A Chris’rmas pan’ro-
mime. simple s’raging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .l0
S’rories of fhe C’l'iris’rmas Carols (MP 60) . . . . . . . . .l5
Miscellaneous

RECREATION Magazine:

November I944:*

The Hanging of ’rhe Greens
Decora’rions by +he Family

November I945: (Price $.25)
Bedecked wi’rh Bays and Rosemary
Toward a Communi’ry Chrisfmas
A Play for Chris’rmas?

Children's Chris’rmas Program
Fes’rival of Ligh’r

December I945: (Price $.25)
Chris’rmas in San Francisco. I945. by Lydia Pafze’r’r

San’ra Comes ’ro Roseland. by S. W. Hudson. Jr.
Cus’rom 01‘ Mexico

November l946:*
Chris’rmas. Holly-Crown'd

Planning Chris’rmas Parfies. by Roberi Lohan
"We Deck Up Our Houses"

November I947:*
The Run-Away Sled
Chris’rmas Carol Caravan

Oakland's Chrislmas Pageani. by Louise Jorgensen
A Town Dresses Up. by John P. Fern

Oiher Sources:
Chris’rmas Book. The—Confains a weal’rh of
ideas {or par’ries. decora’rions and o’rher

Chris’rmas aciivi’ries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
Chris’rmas Handcrafi Recipes (MB I900) . . . . .. .05
Quiz-mas Greeiings (MB I906l—A Chrisimas

quiz on an in’rerna’rional scale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05

New Year's Parlies:
Beginning of ’rhe Year Games (MB I595) . .. .05

Crown Your Twelve Mom‘hs Merrily (MP 265) .l0
"Turn Over a New Leaf Pan‘y. A" (MP I7!) .05

Wa’rch Nigh’r Pan‘y (MP 346) . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

New Lisiings:
Chris’rmas Masques. Fes’rivals and Pagean’rs wi’rh

Music (MP 406) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .l0
Chris’rmas Music (MP 2lbl—A lis’ring oi ’rhe
bes’r collec’rions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05

Chris’rmas Plays for Children (MP 404l—An
up-fo—da’re annol’a’red lis’r {or children ‘From
primary ’ro high school age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l0

Play for Chris’rmas. A (MP 405l—A new lis’r of

secular and religious plays for various age
groups including adul’rs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .l0

 

* Ou’r oi prinl’. Consull' library.

See Jrhe November. I948 issues of RECREATION magazine and Jrhe Bulle’rin Service for iur’rher

new suggesl'ions on Chris’rmas planning.

3%£WWWW£%%W$$€%%WW4€4€K%W4€WWW{€4E "—7 '7 T- 'T ~

 

‘ra’ .L'PQF ..' "

‘1

\
. I
:"t
J‘\
fl

 

 

“ ODAY’S children must absorb the truth

about this land of theirs and acquire a
jealous love for it. The process of safeguarding
outdoor resources must become automatic so
that frantic appeals and preachments will no
longer be necessary. There must come a time
when conflicts over the rights of the public to
these natural resources will 'be impossible and
when no argument can be raised in favor of
spoliation and waste.”

Jay N. Darling, in “Whose Out-

doors ?”, National Parent- Teacher.

