 

E Price 35 Cents June 1948

 

‘Contents

 

lune 1948 "f":

Abbie Harrison Condit; m

by Howard Brancheri . .1". . . . .i . . ._ i. 97 if.

° Reflections

. . . . . . . .  98

Abbie—On the Job and Off,
by Susan Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100

Helping the Wheels Go ’Round,
by Abbie Condit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102

Detroit, by John J. Considine (American  .

Cities in Recreation Serieslr . . . . . . .‘ 105': =

From City to. Country, . -
by Barbara Carrell. . . .I . . . . . .  . . . 111

Every Child, by saga eaglerJau . . . . . . 113

Blazing Training Trails in a New

Frontiers by Willard C. Sutherland. .1141” ‘

Camping Programs for Special Days, ' '

by s. Theodore weal, . . . . . . : . . . 5. 117‘

DON’T Miss—News

about the 1948 Na--
tional Recreation

Congress on page

122‘. Plans are taking

shape for a'vnluable

meeting in Omaha, _
Nebraska, the week

of September 26. All

suggestions gratefully

received.

PICTURE CREDITS—We are in-'
debted to: Gedge Harmon i'or illus- 3
tration on cover; Madison, Wiscon-
sin, Conservation Department, page
120, upper left hand corner; The
Milwaukee Journal, pages 120-121,

bottom center; Fish and Wildlife
Service, U. S. Department of the
Interior, for that of canvasbacks,
page 122; General Motors, Detroit,
Michigan, page 125.

 

 

:; Boys Can Cook, by Eldon Underwood. . 118

Nature Lures the Hobbiests. . . . . . . . . . 120

Omaha Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . 122
Batter Up! by Frank H. Geri . . . . . . . . . 123
Recreation in a Housing Project,

by R. T. McSpadden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
News in Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133

~. Junior Tennis Championships;

by K. Mark 'w‘Cowen . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . 135
Block-Parties, by Charles J. Setzer. . . . . 137

Look to Youranrc'sts.‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139

Regular Features 

World at Play. . .-,. .: ." '. . .  . . . . . . . . 125

Recreation Suggestion Box. . .. . . . . . . . . 129

BooltsReceived . . . . .  141

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . .1, . . . . . . . 141

New publications . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . 143
'Recreationilnstitutes. . . . .Inside Back Cover

 

RECREATION is published monthly-bythe National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America. a service organization supported by voluntary contributions-at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.; is on -f11e in "public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-
class matter June 12.‘ 1929, at“ the Post .Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3,-11879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917.. authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright I948. by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED 1N THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-TWO, NUMBER THREE

Recreation

 

June 1948

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

@5556 garrison Bandit

UTSTANDING WAS Abbie Condit’s contribution
O to the world in which she lived. For a period
of years she had helped, after Wellesley College
days, in children’s aid and family welfare work.
She herself was very happy, smiled easily, and it
was fitting that she should take up the work of the
National Recreation Association in the early pio-
neer days. She helped in nearly every part of the
work in the first years and then centered her time

on the RECREATION magazine, the bulletin service

 

and the books and publications of the Association.

In the recreation publication field through the
years her contribution was very great. Her common sense, her humor, her
feeling of proportion, her instant perception of the genuine and the worth-
while, her liking for people all helped. Partly because Abbie Condit liked
people so much, people everywhere liked her, liked to see her, liked to do
things for her. When individuals came to the NRA. office or to the Rec-
reation Congress, so many of them sought'out Abbie Condit and. were
disappointed if for any reason they did not see her. To many Abbie Condit
was the embodiment of the spirit of the Association. She sought nothing
for herself; she gave without stint of her knowledge and her ability; she

helped thousands, some of them in far countries throughout the world.
Abbie Condit welcomed life eagerly and had fun in living.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

97,

“When I hrst walked into the of-
flce in 1913, Abbie Condit was a
member of the very small staff of
the Playground and Recreation As-
sociation of America (now National
Recreation Association). I had spent
a summer supervising the playgrounds in Erie,

Pennsylvania. Three years later, I became a fel- -

low worker with Abbie. I was one of the five field
secretaries of the Playground and Recreation As-
sociation, and Abbie was editor of The Playground
magazine. Although we worked together, our spe-
cific tasks were different. But, as I worked in the
field making recreation surveys and pushing recre-
ation campaigns, I enjoyed a feeling of solid sup-
port from the headquarters office in New York.
I always visualized Abbie Condit as gathering in
all the vital news about the progress of this new
movement throughout the United States. I always
thought of her with that friendly but determined
smile sorting out the news and giving it to us
through the magazine and through the Special
Bulletin Service.

“The work done by Abbie Condit, and the im-
print of her spirit upon those with whom she
worked, will continue to extend a real, though un-
seen, influence upon the future advancement of
our recreation movement.”

E. DANA CAULKINS,
Superintendent of Recreation,

Wesfchester County,
White Plains, New York

“Those of us who pioneered the public recrea-
tion held on the west coast will always remember
the helpfulness and encouragement of Abbie Con-
dit. Although we were separated by thousands of
miles, Abbie Condit was fully aware of recreation
progress in the western states, and did much to
publicize and emphasize its important contribution

to western living. Her genuine spirit of friendli-

98

Some of those who knew
Abbie Condit person-
ally, here pay individual
tribute to her gener-
ous and friendly Spirit.

ness strengthened the bonds of the
recreation family.”
JOSEPHINE D. RANDALL,
Superintendent of Recreation,
San Francisco, California

“Everyone whose life touched Abbie’s gained a
greater courage, a keener joy of living, a better
understanding of what it means to live without
thought of self. Such radiance of spirit is never
lost. It is for us who were her closest friends to
try as best we can to pass it on to others.”

HELEN LORD SMITH,
Former NRA Staff Member

“It was at the time of War Camp Community
Service (World \Nar I), that I f1rst met Abbie
Condit. I was a stranger to the staff of the Na-
tional Recreation Association and a comparative
stranger to New York. Almost at once, her genial
welcome made me feel one of the family. As the
days and weeks went on, I came to appreciate her
poise and steadfast qualities. Her loyalty to the
purposes of the organization of which she was a
part, tOgether with her loyalty to her associates,
made those who were her co-workers rally to her.
She was folksy. She liked people and people liked
her. A Recreation Congress seemed not to be a
congress without Abbie.

“Rarely does one meet a more self-effacing per-
son who so generously gave credit to others for
that which really she accomplished. Moreover, her
faculty of seeing the best in those she met, and
of looking on the bright side of situations are
gifts of character which she cannot but have passed
on to those who knew her.”

EVA WIIITING WHITE,
W’omen’s Educational and Industrial
Union, Boylston, Massachusetts

“When you think of Abbie Condit, you think

RECREATION

of the word integrity. There was something com-
bined-into-a-whole about her; some soundness and
completeness. What she undertook, she did heart-
ily, with understanding and sincerity. I remember
those many years when she was the mainspring
of the Recreation Congresses. Personally, she al-
' ways stood for me as a protagonist of play. She
knew what friendship and shared interests meant,
and above all, she was acquainted with humor. It
is impossible to be narrow-minded if you possess
this quality. To realize the littleness of big things,
and the bigness of little things, to be able to see
the ludicrous in the complacent, presupposes de—
tachment. And detachment means an open and
perceptive mind. I shall miss her very much, but
I think wherever she is all goes well with her;
there would be no justice if it did not.”

JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK,

Director, Playground and Recreation
Board, oak Park, Illinois

“No matter how religious or spiritual we are,
no matter how firmly we believe that this life is
but transitory and that those like Abbie who leave
this mortal sphere pass into the Communion of
Saints, we cannot help but grieve and be lonesome
and feel the void of that which cannot be filled
by another.

“Abbie Condit was a wise counselor, a diligent
and efficient associate, and a sincere and inspiring
friend. Among the many who will miss her will
be, now and always, my unworthy self. To her
family and to you her associates, I present my
understanding and heartfelt sympathy.”

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY,

Chairman, Department of Planning,
White Plains, New York ‘

“Abbie Condit’s postscripts on my letters were
a true index of her character—jovial, vivacious,
likeable, loyal to the National Recreation Associa-
tion. She was a devoted member of the recreation
family in America. Everybody loved her.”

TOM LANTZ,
Superintendent of Public Recrea-
tion, Tacoma, Washington

“Abbie Condit was typical of many pioneer
workers who found their own life—and found it
with great joy in the recreation movement.”

 

HOWARD BRAUCHER,
President,
National Recreation Association

“I was stunned at first at the grievous news of
Abbie’s going. 'It just couldn’t be. There must

lUNE 1948

always be an Abbie. But as the days go by I find
that she really hasn’t gone. So rare a spirit, so
great and loyal a friend lives always in the hearts
of those who knew her; she is warmly present,
though the loss of her staunch presence is deep ,
and real.

“Though my period of working with Abbie Con-
dit was but a short one, it was so happy and of
untold value to me in knowing her as a person and
friend and in having her wise, patient and gener-
ous help in my work. Her deep loyalty and inter-
est in the Association is an inspiration and chal-
lenge, and her friendship through the following
years has been a comfort, joy and honor.

“My heart goes. out to you, for I know that you
will feel her going keenly, even though the real
Abbie Condit will always be near and dear. How
many, many people will always carry the memory
of Abbie close in their hearts!”

BETTY PRICE PUCKLE,
Former Assistant to Abbie Condit

Resolution

“The Board of Directors of the National Recre-
ation Association hereby record their feeling as to
the deep and permanent contribution Abbie Con-
dit made during her thirty-five years of service
to the recreation movement throughout the world.

“The recreation movement owes much to the

early pioneer professional workers, and outstand-

ing in this group was Abbie Condit. She worked
with rare efficiency and in her own life carried the
spirit of the movement.”

Passed by NRA Board of Directors
at annual meeting May 26, 1948

Abbie Condit Fund

When Abbie Condit’s happy, purposeful and
busy life was about to close, she knew it and faced
it in her characteristic way. Her wish was that
in place of flowers contributions be sent to those
causes which were close to her heart. Among her
last words was the name of the National Recrea-
tion Association to which she had gladly and gen-
erously given most of her life.

It will, therefore, be very satisfying to all who
knew Abbie Condit to be told of the plan to have
her name and her spirit perpetuated through the
establishment of an “Abbie Condit Fund.” The
income from this and other funds established in
memory of those who have helped to build the
National Recreation Association will be used to
carry on its work. Any who wish to share in this
plan may mail contributions to the Association.

99

 

s I LOOK back over the years I have known
Abbie Condit, I find it impossible either to
remember the time we first met or to realize how
comparatively few. were the years I really knew
her. I suppose actually we hrst met at a board
meeting, although her name had long been familiar
to me through my father. He spoke of her so
often with affectionate appreciation that I had
come to know her subconsciouSly as one of the
leading spirits of the playground movement—years
before I ever saw her. But the fact that her name
was thus familiar to me is in itself significant of
what she was. The strong, open, honest beauty of
her face, the warmth of her smile and the genuine
friendliness of her greeting were such that one felt
an immediate contact and rapport as if one had
always known her.

In my early days on the Board, when I was
new and strange, it was always a pleasure to see
Abbie come in with her welcoming smile. Hers
was the personality that stood out above all others,
so that one soon came to watch for the responsive
twinkle in the eye and to listen expectantly for the
ready wit which, usually held in abeyance during
board meetings, came with the suddenness of
lightning, followed by her gay laughter.

One of her classic witticisms at one of these
meetings took place during the war when a
“Buddy Box” (a small and compact receptacle
containing a diminutive set of checkers and other
games) was being passed around the table. As
the Chairman examined it, Abbie said, quick as a
flash, “Mr. Garrett’s looking for a discus”*—-—a
remark which nearly broke up the meeting and
was especially appreciated by Mr. Garrett himself.

100

Abbie on the job

~andl 0“

But, though none was more cordial to each and
every board member than she, Abbie usually kept
her best sallies on such occasions for the private
ears of her Special friends on the Board, with
whom she had built up a close relationship through
the years. Mr. J. C. Walsh was one of these, and
the badinage carried on between them before and
after the transaction of business was continued by
correspondence. How Abbie did enjoy and appre-
ciate her letters from Mr. Walsh! Emerson says
it takes two to speak the truth. So, also, does it
take two to write a letteraespecially that kind of
letter—one to compose it and one at the receiving
end to call it forth.

Mr. Walsh once told me that my father had said
to him that they two were the only Irishmen on the
Board, “And you know,” said Mr. Walsh, “it was
true, too—at least it was true of him!” I believe
Mr. Walsh might have said the same thing of
Abbie Condit. She had a warmth and a special
genius for human relations which might well have
been Celtic in origin.

I don’t know much about Abbie’s ancestry—it
being characteristic of her that she seldom, if ever,
talked of herself—but somewhere there must have
been a sea captain. One felt this kinship not only
because of a certain tough—fibred integrity but also
because of the sailor’s roll in her walk, and the
changing light in her face that one sees only on
the ocean or on a northwest day in the mountains
when cloud shadows pass across the bright sunlit
slopes. Angelo Patri once told a story of a child,
who had been unhappy at school, coming home

 

* Mr. Garrett had taken part in the discus throwing contest at
the Olympic games held in Athens.

RECREATION

By Susan M. Lee

one day full of contentment and saying to his
mother, “We have a new teacher today who smiles
with her eyes.” Nobody who knew Abbie Condit
can ever forget the light in her eyes when she
smiled. Perhaps it is this which her friends will
remember best. But nobody who knew her well
can forget, either, the shadow which passed across
her face and the dark depths of her eyes when her
ready sympathy was called forth by the troubles
of a friend, or her indignation aroused by a stupid
or mean action.

Almost from the first day I went to work at
the N. R. A., Abbie became one of my special
friends. Four days out of five at the least found
me seeking her out at her desk at the mid-after-
noon break to smoke a cigarette and exchange the
latest news—confident of her unfailing response.
No matter how snowed under with work or how
near the magazine deadline, she never seemed hur-
ried and her cheery greeting was always forth-
coming. Her desk was the rendezvous for a group
of friends, and anybody within earshot, no matter
how busy he might be, found himself irresistibly
drawn into the group by the infectious quality of
her hilarious laughter.

At other times I Hagged her as she passed my
desk to share with her the latest juicy bit, or she
stopped by with some new story of her own, or
some clipping which had entertained her. Once,
without comment, she left an article which had
come to her desk for me to read, saying she would
like my opinion on it. The article was unbeliev-
ably bad—woolly both in thought and expression
—-—and I told her as much, only to find, of course,
that she felt exactly as I did. This incident seems

JUNE 1948

to me characteristic of her whole approach—never
asserting her own opinion and never talking of her
trials as an editor, which included arduous hours
spent on the thankless task of rewriting such mate—
rial as this. Because of her innate and instinctive
modesty, she never claimed credit even for the
many creative pieces of writing which she did
herself, nor realized what a living force she had
become in the movement, through her friendly con-
tacts with people all over the country—many of
whom she‘ had never seen—who; over the years,
had come to know her and depend on her. Her
lack of egotism, in fact, was so unconscious and
complete that only now have I come to the reali—
zation that I never heard her say one word to show
that she was somebody, or to demand any recogni—
tion for what she had done either for the magazine
or for the Association. And yet there she was, a
tower 'of strength through‘all the years of growth
of the recreation movement, as steady as the sun,
and as life—giving to all her fellow workers.

She thought so little either of or about herself
and was so out—going in her way of meeting people
that I am sure there were few who realized the
shyness and the deep reserve which lay behind her
friendly ways. Nobody could run faster for cover
than Abbie at the merest suggestion that she say
a few words at a meeting—however small the
group. Her retirement after her thirty—five years‘
of service with the N. R. A. is another case in
point, because of the highly characteristic manner
in which it was carried out. Though we all knew
she meant to retire, she couldn’t quite bring her-
self to mention the date even to her best friends.
Parties, tributes, fuss of any kind were completely
tabu even as topics of conversation. All that we
got away with—and even this was completely sub
rosa—was a farewell scrapbook in which we all
shared, albeit with strict instructions from its
secret instigator to keep all entries humorous and
gay. The day she was to leave was kept so quiet
that I doubt whether many knew just when it was,
and—as though she had never left the office—her
frequent visits, since that day were on the same

_old uproarious basis, with Abbie the life of the

party and always game for an extra ice cream.

But with all .her outgoing nature, her unfailing

good humor, her generosity and her fine tolerance
of the foibles of her fellow men, which made her

beloved by all and sundry, she never lost her sense

of values and was completely without pretense
about what she liked and didn’t like. She simply
accepted what she felt could not be changed in men
or institutions. As a close friend has said of her,
though a person of high principles, she was en-

101

tirely without malice.

After a recent reunion at VVellesley she told us
that her classmates had suggested paying her way
to the next one in order to be sure of having her
around for comic relief. When all is said and’done,
one always gets back to humor where Abbie is
concerned, as she had that rarest of all qualities,
the ability to laugh at herself, which characterizes
the true humorist and which, I suspect, was the
real key to her character. Not that she ever failed,
withal, to give back as good as she took, being ever
quick on the come-back, which was made in such
a way that her victim led the laugh and returned

for more. At Recreation Congresses Abbie was
always the center of an appreciative group, and
no one was more greatly missed than she on the
rare occasions when she wasn’t present. If one
told her, on return, of the many complimentary
messages, she turned them aside with a wisecrack.
I can hear her comment now, in that rich voice
of hers, as she reads this over my shoulder, and
above all I can hear her merry laughter, “Rare”
was a favorite word of hers, which she usually
applied to people or things which amused her.
When one applies the word to Abbie herself one
is thinking of more than 'her talent as a humorist:

Helping the Wheels Go ’Round . 

An address presented at the 1937 Na-

tional Recreation Congress, in which
Miss Condit gave a revealing picture
of the growth of her own work within
the National Recreation Association.

E WHO WORK at headquarters helping to

keep the wheels going around are sometimes
a little skeptical, just among ourselves, when we
hear it said that the really significant work of the
National Recreation Association is done out in
the field, in the communities, at the training insti-
tutes. We admit all this is pretty important, but
we like to think that our activities at headquarters
are equally vital to the success of the‘recreation
movement. “What would field representatives do,”
we at headquarters whisper to each other, “if they
could not say to individuals in the cities they visit
‘write to headquarters for information’ on sur-
facing, on playground programs, on community
centers, on a thousand and one subjects?”

At headquarters our Bureau of Correspondence
and Consultation each year answers thousands of
inquiries on all of these subjects which come from
large cities and rural districts, from individuals,
from organized groups, from foreign countries.
Many of these inquiries come from small commu-
nities where there is no organized group to which
individuals can turn for help. In recent years many
of the requests for information have come from

102

Abbie Condit

individuals working in government recreation
projects who, in isolated sections, are organizing
recreation programs, frequently the first experi-
ence in organized play these communities have
had. The Association is very happy to feel that it
can serve these individuals and communities.

Last year there were 14,505 letters from 5,772
communities, exclusive of inquiries on drama and
music, which amounted to approximately 5,000,
making a grand total- of over 20,000 inquiries.
Over 600 people called at the office to discuss their
problems personally.

The inquiries placed before our Correspondence
Bureau range from “Please help us plan a party”
to “Please send us a complete recreational layout
for our community.”

Because it is such a human document, I want
to take time to read to you a letter that recently
came which illustrates one type of inquiry that the.
Bureau receives. It comes from Jasper, Alabama:

“I live in a small community with not more than
twelve girls my size or about my size. We get very lonely
for we live about nine miles out of town. The girls of
our community would like to know if we could organize

RECREATION

a Recreation Club. I have not had any experience before
on such things, but I think my cousin and I could make
out. We are willing to pay the dues and buy the badges
and certificates. We will also order the monthly maga-
zine RECREATION and many other books. Will you please
answer telling us if we can organize a club. Tell me all
the information that you can.”

In answering these diversified inquiries the lit—
erature of the Association plays an important part,
and we are very proud of the collection of books,
inexpensive practical guides, booklets and pam—
phlets which have developed over the years. We
started with a few pamphlets, most of them ad—
, dresses at early Congresses, some of them far flung

in their influence and usefulness. Many of them'

you are still using and we venture to say you are
finding them as fresh and new in their content and
as sound in their philosophy as they were when
they were written. There is Joseph Lee’s “Play
and Playgrounds,” Charles Evans Hughes’ “\Vhy
W e Want Playgrounds,” George E. Johnson’s
“\Vhy Teach a Child to Play,” and Dr. Finley's
“\Visdom of Leisure.” There are now playgrounds
which owe their existence to the interest these
pleas for the-right of children to play aroused
years ago in groups of public-spirited citizens.

It was not long before the literature of the
movement began to grow. The Year Book made
its appearance in the magazine, then known as
The Playground, and we began to record this
growth. Each year, .with very few exceptions, the
Year Book has been issued, representing a coop—
erative venture in which many hundreds of indi-
viduals and communities have had a part.

It was during the war that the bulletin services
were really inaugurated. Faced with the necessity
of sending out suggestions as rapidly as possible
to hundreds of new workers assembled under the
banner of \Var Camp Community Service, the
Association began issuing mimeographed bulletins
with rapid—fire instructions and suggestions. These
bulletins soon became known and are now in real
demand. If you are a recreation executive you
receive the bulletins with their suggestions for
games, social activities, music, drama, and other
activities free of charge. If you sometimes become
discouraged and wonder why you are a recreation
executive, comfort yourself with the thought that
by being one you are saving $2.50 a year, for all
workers other than executives pay this amount for
the service. Our subscribers to this particular bul-
letin include workers from organizations of many
types who tell us that they are finding the bulletins
helpful.

As time went on we found it useful to apply a
little specialization to our bulletins and, at the

JUNE 1948

 

present time, in addition to our so—called Recrea—
tion Bulletin Service which we have just de-
scribed, we are sending bulletins t0 the following
groups: leaders in the rural field, workers in in-
stitutions, recreation and personnel workers in
industries, park superintendents and officials,
W' PA and NY A recreation directors, officials of
recreation commissions and departments. Testi-
mony that these bulletins are proving of real serv—
ice is seen in the fact that they are so widely
duplicated and quoted in bulletins and printed
material emanating from local recreation groups,
VVPA and N Y A state and county offices. It is a
matter of great gratification to the Association
that the bulletin services are being found as helpful
as all signs indicate them to be.

It was during the war, or immediately after,
that what was probably the first booklet, Comrades
in Play, was published.- It is a far cry from that
early publication to Partners in Play, one of the
outstanding books of the Association which deals
with the same subject. But it is significant that

'(almost twenty years ago thought was being given

to the importance of joint recreation for young
men and women—a subject now recognized as
fundamental by other leaders of young people as
well as by recreation workers.

And so publications have multiplied as the
movement has grown. Pamphlets have developed
into booklets. Booklets have grown up and be-
come books, until now there are compilations of
material on all phases of recreation which we hope
are serving as practical guides to those of you
working in localities. And the end is not yet.
There is infinitely more to be done. More re-
search is needed. It is important that publications
be brought up—to—date, that more study be given
to specific subjects.

The.publications of the Association have never
been the work of national headquarters alone.
They have always been a joint, cooperative effort,
and it is only as you, working in localities, experi—
menting, making theories realities, have sent us
the results of your experiences that we have been
able to put these experiences into a form which
will make them available for the entire profession.

As an illustration of this I want to tell you of a
letter which came to my desk just a few days ago.

103

It was from a man in the Middlewest who said he
was a recreation specialist for a government proj-
ect, working in recreation centers where there was
a dearth of apparatus, games and equipment.
“Under these conditions,” he writes, “I have been
compelled to carry on and assist others to do like—
wise in numerous centers. My ingenuity has been
taxed constantly. I have been forced to utilize
what would ordinarily be classed as junk or waste
material. In many instances the only equipment
available in a center is an old dilapidated piano.
I have developed a technique in tearing down dis—
carded pianos and practically equipping a center
with a complete supply of puzzles and games. If
you would like to publish an article on the subject
of supplying your center with puzzles and games
from an old piano, I would be glad to send the
data to you.” '

One cannot but be impressed by the ingenuity
and resourcefulness shown in this letter, which
seem to have come as by-products of the depres-
sion, and with the desire to _share with others even
the small discoveries which may mean financial
saving and increased service.

This willingness to share, which has always
been characteristic of recreation workers, has made
our task as reporters and recorders a far easier
one than it otherwise would have been, and we
want to pay tribute to the generosity, the spirit of
cooperation and the helpfulness of recreation
workers everywhere responding to our calls for
help. We want, too, to express gratitude for the
patience shown when your articles do not appear
in the magazine as soon as you or we should like
to have them, or when your contributions of mate-
rial are temporarily mislaid!

We admit regretfully that we are not always
able to please everyone. The same mail which
brings us a letter saying, “I can hardly wait for
RECREATION to come each month,” may also bring

one which announces, “Your publication is about
I as bad as any one can be. How can you make it
so poor? We inclose two dollars in renewal of
our subscription. We will give you just one more
chance.” We welcome both types of comments.
\Ve wish, however, that you would be more spe-
cific in your commendation and condemnation.
Tell us, please, just why you do or do not like
certain articles, and what you feel we can do to
improve our publications, not forgetting what you
can do to help us make them better, for they are
yours quite as much as they are ours.

And, so, at Headquarters at 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York City, where you are always welcome,
machinery is constantly turning in an effort to help

104

you who are working in communities—not only
the machinery for answering. inquiries and com-
piling publications, but machinery for setting up
recreation congresses and training institutes, for
keeping workers in touch with possible openings
in the field, for sending out achievement standards,
for making studies and gathering information, for
doing the hundred and one things you and others
request us to do. And since the machinery is only
human, it is subject to human' weaknesses and
occasional failures to function perfectly. But it is
operating in your behalf and so we feel privileged
to ask your indulgence and, for the future, even
greater cooperation than you have given us in the
past.

For bOth the problems and the opportunities
which lie ahead are perhaps greater than any we
have had to meet in the past. Those of us who
went through the war period working together in
\Var Camp Community Service—and there are
here tonight a number of battle—scarred veterans
of that hectic period—perhaps felt that we could
never again live through so difficult a time; that
we could never again be called on to face so try-
ing a readjustment. But in the words of David
Cushman Coyle, “we hadn’t seen nothing yet,” for
along came the depression with its devastating
effect on the individual and on society, and with
it the inescapable responsibility to maintain the
morale of the unemployed—a task made the more
diHicult because, as we went further into the de-
pression, budgets of recreation departments were
cut more and more and trained personnel dwindled.

Some of us here have seen what recreation and
recreation leadership have meant during two great
crises—a world war and an economic depression
of vast proportions. we know what has gone into
the building of this movement now recognized as
one of the greatest forces of American life, now
come into its own with the vast new areas of lei-
sure time which a changing society, a new con-
ception of what constitutes living, is bringing
about.

In this new era, if we are to meet the challenge,
all the technical aids which can be offered through
the various channels of the National Association
will be needed. We shall need more than ever the
pooling of information. We shall need the seasoned
experience of the older workers and the enthu—
siasm and eagerness of the new. We shall need
courage, the willingness and ability to make ad-
justment, and most of all, the spirit of cooperation,
the firm abiding conviction that by working to-
gether on all fronts we shall make a lasting con-
tribution to a new order of things.

RECREATION

The Story of

American Cities in Recreation

DETROIT

An introductory article in a proposed new
series. If this proves of sujyicient inter-
est it will be. followed every few months
by similar articles from other cities.

John J. Considine

FTER THE GREAT fire of 1805 destrbyed the
City of Detroit, the foundation of a park
system was laid in the rebuilding of the city, start—
ing with three parks totalling six acres. In 1871
the city was given the power by the State Legisla—
ture to create a Board of Park Commissioners,
and a separate Boulevard Commission was organ-
ized in 1879. Ultimately the tWo were merged,
and functioned until 1940 as the Department of
Parks and Boulevards.

The first supervised playground was established
in Detroit in 1903 by a volunteer Women’s Com-
mittee which solicited funds and gifts of play
equipment. No funds were provided by the city,
but in two years, the Board of Education was
given money to open one school playground during
the vacation season and thereafter staffed a few
summer playgrounds each year. The Board of
Commerce undertook a survey in 1913 and recom-
mended that a Recreation Commission be estab-

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS a RECREATION — CITY OF DETROIT
_

PARKS D RECREATION COMMISSION

GENERAL SUPERINTENDANT

ASST. GENERAL SUPERINTENDANT

RECREATION DIV.

Ringer/oar
Peace”!
P1949419"
- P1 .9 #7544:

Pl A9 Yckaa/YDS

RIO?! 447/0” C r1951
JVMMIR CAMP

spa-cm;
moo scans

PUBLIC SERVICE

GOLF C0 UIJ‘JJ
RE I" 5' c roe/£3
CONCWIOA/J'
CAMOE SH££ 75R

CASINO
no car ans-MI

FORESTRYLHORT.

J 7' 1955 7' 770553
0 7/UTY 7' £5 5 WORK
NOR—fie Y
GRESNKOOUES
Cal/Jlkl’li 70/87
P1919}? 7/955!
Fl 0.4591.

015 V££OPM£IVT
OkD/NRNCE

4"in @905 Mt" IV 7'

STAFF 8 ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS

Peeks
pays-1:10:

0MP
IKE” CONJ'Z

M0 VIA/6'

GROUND MAINTEN'CE

55/! Y "IQ/1V7!” '6'!

P4 4 WPOUNDS

G our ca #4955:

JP‘C/kt SVEAW'
EQUIPMAE’IVT

LDGS.-HEGII.EOUIPN'T

Jar/mm: mum/V6
REPAIR/AVG
MAM!er

Pk o rte no”
#54 rws puyraq.
nun/a («Myra/m:
com-7.- £0VIPM£NT
7004s
MRI/ON/(nl £00m
197545776 Eat/IA

ACCO U NT I NG NFORMATION -PUBL. PERSONNEL ' NALYSIS-PLANrDES'N GENERAL OFFICE

IkaopA/Arrozv
(.50 6542
cm 4506::
Pacer/m
4'50 (#57 raw
OWNIMIWJ'J
000657
.3 701264900”

0,5490 7/0”
I” VCIVMICJ

JUNE 1948

INFORM}? 770”

MEWJ‘ £54 £465:
Eda/0 ' Mal/C

6' PIS (7/16

I V L LiT/IYS
351.0373

reaming-Juan
4' reams/Perla”:

7/»!5’ “€000:

PI WED“:

5.0:er

7£AWVMIG

IIkJ'OIWVA'l.
UTILIZlT/OIY 440
Java: Uta/(la

{HMO ACOU/J‘l 770”

£66. PRC/A/T/ALS
LIOND (/55
COMMVIV/TY 05%
015K PL 19M! FOR
P446?! #74ny 7/55
ZIWYDJ'CWAE Ali/V5
PHRA’ - P149 YG'R '0

BRIG/Y5

ORGANIZATION CHART
APRIL 8 , l948

Pavel/sex can.
_.sr:wocnnpyr
7YP/NG

FEM/7‘:

S wrnwa Mace:
Marc. RECMM

t Ripe-A: r:
pure/er UN! 75'

 

105

lished. The Commission was authorized by Char— In 1940 the people voted another Charter

ter Amendment voted by the people in November Amendment to merge the Department of Recrea—
1914. The budget became available July I, 1915—— tion with the Department of Parks and Boulevards
a total of $157,288.99—and a year-round recrea- which resulted in the Department of Parks and
tion program was launched. " Recreation.

CITY OF
HIGHLAND
PAIN

LEGEND
-EXISTING PRIOR To MASTER PLIN

ACQUIRED UNDER MASTER PLAN. l946-8 W 5°“ °' 'LE’
|:|PROROSED m MASTER PLAN , — ’ . "

—EXISTING BOULEVARDS AND PARKWAYS

DETROIT'S PLAN OF RECREATION AREAS

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
CITY OF DETROIT APRILI.I948

 

Summary of acreage in parks and playgrounds: six large parks, 2,946 acres; twenty-one small parks, 175 acres;
sixty-four playgrounds, 551 acres; five special facilities, 4.02 acres; 125 miscellaneous non-recreational and un-
developed sites, 854 acres. Total, 4,929 acres.

 

Recreation Division

I
SUPERINTENDENT OF RECREATION

Actiilrities Golf Courses Ordhestra Recreation
Bowling Greens and Band Camp
Plggmuqu’ glayiidds Swimming Pools Concerts - C l
ecreation . enters B athi n g B each es | . 
Athletics C oeng Recreatioit Superwsoar
Director ofl Recreation  Pumor Assisltants
I Asmstant ' 1n Oharge
Supervisor of Athletics Dir‘idor
Apsgtant Directcgrs Managers '
o eereation ( ) . Greenlkeepers
Community House Supervisors SWi‘mming Instructors

Recreation Instructors—
Playleaders—S pecialists

 

106 RECREATION

Facilities
(See chart page 106)

Summer Winter
5 Large Parks 6 Housing Project 17 Recreation Centers 4 Housing Project
35 Department Play- Centers 11 High School Centers Centers
grounds 22 School Swimming Pools, 16 Intermediate School 18 Church and Miscellane-
71 School Grounds 2 Outdoor Swimming Sites Centers ous Centers
16 Community Centers 4 Recreation Center Pools 71 Elementary School 4 Recreation Center Pools
8 Playlots 8 Miscellaneous Centers Centers 22 School Swimming Pools

Sports Facilities

a 255 Softball Diamonds 22 Football Fields 2 Track and Field Areas
56 Hardball Diamonds 21 Hand-ball Courts  2 Lawn Bowling Areas
110 Kickball Diamonds 25 ShufHeboard Courts 233 Skating Rinks
54 Horseshoe Courts 8 Soccer Fields 14 Wading Pools
10 Field Hockey Areas 183 Tennis Courts

(Six golf courses and eight toboggan slides were operated by the Public Service Division.)

KITCHEN
sors' tartar

ems“ mu ETJAMMR 4 AFT Roomza'ns'
"‘7 "90":‘9373". ‘ - Ar 300542333?
cm” mange x4e some

crumswu, 72 196"
:50 srars

:50 3547’s
.574 (SE, 4073!

  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
    

Erma/3:. Izixza’ sms' TOILET

Bors' TOILET
ARET'AKER
6‘4 MES, 355w!
— ems——
powom ROOM
on. 5r
Looms

SHOWERS AW
DRESSING STALLS

DRE S MIG ROOM

301m ROOM, 23'x35‘
GOAL , 231' 15‘

Bors’ SHOWER
aors' LOCKER ROOM

DRESSING 300M

arms" snowms
EOUIPNEI‘VT

crossr

PROPOSED COMMUNITY BUILDING

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
CITY OF DETROIT
APRIL,|946

JUNE 1948 107

\

Recreation Leadership Personnel

During the last year, the staff of I42 year-round
workers included recreation instructors, special-
ists, and supervisory staff. This number was aug-
mented by part-time workers in the following

classifications :
Summer
4 Senior Public Service
Attendants

24 Life Guards
24 Baseball Instructors

120 Male Playleaders

89 Female PIayleaders
15 Piano Accompanists
25 Swimming Instructors
2 Bathhouse Managers

Winter

70 Male Play'leaders
31 Female Playleaders
12 Piano Accompanists

12 Boxing Instructors
13 Basketball Instructors
49 Athletic Officials

The above does not include the personnel of the
Department’s Public Service Division, which oper—
ated six golf courses and eight toboggan slides;
made canoes, bicycles, pony carts and riding horses
available for rental; and offered speedboat and
ferry boat rides at Belle Isle, Detroit’s park in the
Detroit River.

Program Plans

“Give every child a place to play within bike
or walking distance of his home—the younger ones
to be saved the necessity of ever crossing thor-
oughfares.”

That is the broad program of the Mayor, the
Detroit Common Council, the Parks and Recrea-
tion Department and the City Planning Commis-
sion.

This industrial city, with a pOpulation of
1,800,000, is acquiring sites for playfields, parks
and playgrounds a short walk from all homes, and
wherever possible, large enough to provide for
field sports. Some will have sufficient acreage, in
addition, for park—life settings and passive uses.

The aim of this planning is to make it possible
for the children of workers to play in safety and
to go to and from places of play and to and from
school in safety. To this end, the Mayor and
Common Council have gone all out to provide
playgrounds within one-quarter to one-half mile
of all homes. Since Detroit’s standard neighbor—
hood units are one mile square, this means a jun-
ior playground of two to four acres in each quad-
rant plus a central playground of four to seven
acres at the elementary school if it is in or near
the center of the unit, as many of them are.

Admittedly, it is an ambitious program not only
in acquisition costs but in future maintenance and
operating costs. However, the parks and recrea—
tion heads believe it is worthwhile. If carried out
100 per cent, no child would have to cross a major

108

or secondary thoroughfare.

One hundred per cent achievement, however,lis
not possible, especially in the districts which are
built up with housing still in good condition. These
districts are the most difficult. Slum areas sched-
uled for early redevelopment and sparsely settled
districts show better progress.

Community use of school buildings probably has
been pushed further in Detroit than in many aver—
age cities. Swimming pools and recreation centers
are in the master plan and sites are being acquired
for them; but the broadening of the use of school
buildings, plus the addition of play areas not on
school sites, are foremost in the minds of city
fathers. The new schools are being especially de—
signed for recreation purposes. with budgetary ad—
justments betWeen the departments to assure
results. One elementary school now under con-
struction will have a recreation wing about as
large as the classroom section. It will contain
gymnasium, lockers, auditorium, kitchen facilities,
craft rooms and club rooms; will be used by both
departments, but will be under the jurisdiction of
the Department of Parks and Recreation which is
paying for most of the cost of that part of the
building.

The city’s program calls for adding approxi-
mately 3,500 acres of land to the 1946 acreage,
eight new large outdoor swimming pools, two
stadia, and two arenas, major recreation centers
in all the secondary schools plus a few of the Park
Department’s own and many’improvements to
existing properties. Detroit already has acquired
800 acres. All land is acquired by condemnation.
The total cost is large but there is a chance 'of
getting much of the money over a twenty-year
period because the Mayor and Common Council
of this city are recreation-minded and they have
already given substantial evidence of their support.

From the beginning, the city’s fathers were sold
on the plan and affirmed their early approval with
a substantial first-year appropriation of $2,000,000
for land acquisition and another $2,000,000 the
second year, further committing themselves to con—
tinuing support on a pay-as-you-go-basis. Now,
two years later, the program is fairly underway.
There has been, of course, some criticism of ac-
quiring land faster than it can be developed. A
courageous Detroit Board of Aldermen in 1878
paid $200,000 for the whole of Belle Isle, which
admittedly today is one of the country’s beauty
spots. At that time, they were nearly impeached
for such a “wanton” expenditure.

Suitable standards were, of course, among the
first steps to be considered in the present program.

RECREATION

It was found that seven acres per thousand, or
even six, if properly distributed, would do very
well. In a city as nearly built up as Detroit. with
no rough terrain, it does not seem practicable to
acquire the large sites necessary for major parks
which would make up the balance of the perfect
score. Detroit adopted one and one-half acres per
thousand persons for playfields, and one acre per
thousand for playgrounds; playlots in congested
areas only. The bulk of the new passive use areas
will be provided in extra large playfield parks be-
cause vacant sites larger than sixty acres are hard
to find among the I 38 square miles within the city
limits. Outside the limits there are some excellent
recreation areas which are being provided by the
state, county and regional authorities. Their pro—
grams are clicking like clockwork. Detroit officials
.do not feel that these metropolitan parks take the
place of urban major parks, but they are willing
to accept the substitute rather than the alternative,
which means the demolition of blocks upon blocks
of fairly good urban housing.

Thus, Detroit, with some help from the state in
providing the metropolitan parks within reach of
those in a position to travel to them by automobile
or bus, expects to eventually provide every boy
and girl with the ideal place for recreation.

Program Activities

Arts and Crafts: Wood carving, coping saw
cut-outs, birdhouses, kite—making, shop activities,
leather and metal tooling, pottery and ceramics,
basketry, plain sewing, knitting and crocheting,

painting, papercraft, party favors, quilt club.

Athletics and Sports: Athletic tests, badminton,
baseball, basketball, bowling—on-the—green, boxing,
football, golf, handball, horseshoes, ice skating,
kickball, shufileboard, soccer, softball, table tennis,
tennis, track and held, volleyball, water polo.

Dancing: F olk dancing, ballet, tap, square danc—
ing, character and modern dancing.

Drama: Plays, skits, pantomimes, pageants.

Music: Boys’ band, rhythm bands, choral
groups, operettas, vocal auditions.

Outing Activities: Day camps, children’s sum—
mer camp, gardening, nature activities, picnicking.

Water Sports; Swimming, diving, life saving
and water safety, water pageants, synchronized
swimming, water ballet, swimming instruction for
the handicapped, yearly “Learn-to—Swim”' cam-
paign.

Winter Sports: Coasting, ice-skating, hockey,
skiing, tobogganing, figure-skating.

Social Clubs: Teen—age .clubs and canteens, so—
cial clubs for seventeen-twenty—six‘group; social
clubs for twenty-one—thirty-five group; Detroit
Friendship Club for single men and women from
thirty—five years of age upward; Friendly Hearts
Clubs for aged people; married couples clubs.

Model Craft: C lubs: Model aircraft, model power
boats, model racing cars, model yachts.

Miscellaneous Activities: Bridge clubs, photog—
raphy clubs, chess and checker clubs, stamp col-
lectors clubs, safety clubs, discussion groups, roller
skating.

 

COMMUNITY_ PLAYGROUND WITH EXISTING SCHOOL—8pACRES

JUNE 1948

109

Special Events

Crafts: Displays of handcraft and woodcraft,
birdhouses, photography ; doll shows, hobby shows ;
model aircraft tournaments. ,

M usic and Drama: Band concerts, choral con-
certs, operettas, pageants, Spring Festival, vocal
auditions to select concert soloists.

Sports: Tournaments in badminton, bowling-
on-the-green, golf, marbles, table tennis, tennis,
volleyball; ice-Skating carnivals ; leagues building
up to city championships in all other major sports,
track and held meets.

Swimming: Water pageants, synchronized swim-
ming demonstrations, water carnivals, “Learn-to-
Swim” campaign.

Features: Municipal Christmas tree ceremonies;
celebrations for Special holidays ; “I Am An Amer-
ican” Day celebration; Children’s Pageant to cli—
max playground season; Spring Festival at cul-
mination of indoor program.

Budget

The grand total of the estimated expenditures
of the Parks and Recreation Department for the
fiscal year 1947-1948 is $6,367,668. Expenditures
for operation and maintenance represent almost
exactly one-half of this amount. Approximately
two-thirds of the capital items which total
$2,588,500 are designated for land acquisition. An
item of $600,000 for refectories and concessions
accounts for the balance of the budget.

The amount to be raised from tax funds for
the work of the Department in 1947-1948 is
$5,204,254. The balance is to be met from rev—
enue to the Department; nearly two-thirds of this
is anticipated from refectory sales.

Salaries and wages for Department personnel
represent eighty-three per cent or nearly five—
sixths of the total estimated expenditures for main-
tenance and operation in 1947-1948.

Following is a summary of the 1947-1948
budget:

PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
ADMINISTRATION AND ACCOUNTING

Salaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 226,388.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 24,800.
-——$ 251,188.
RECREATION DIVISION
Salaries and Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 689,848.

Reimbursement to Board of Edu-
cation for Use of School Buildings 125,000

Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40,790.
855,638.
BATHIIOUSES—OPERATION
Salaries and Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 53,189.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 13,710.
66,899.
110

CANOE SHELTER—OPERATION

Salaries and Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,872.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10,875.
23,747.
GOLF COURSES—OPERATION
Salaries and Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 46,088.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,355.
48,443.
RECREATION CAMP
Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26,389.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22,325.
— 48,714.
BAND CONCERTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25,000.
GENERAL MAINTENANCE
Salaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 998,079.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 89,980.
———-— 1,088,059.
BATHHOUSES, CANOE SHELTER AND
GOLF COURSES—MAINTENANCE
Salaries and Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139,531.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 19,925.
—— 159,456.
HORTICULTURE DIVISION
Salaries and Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454,728.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20,600.
475,328.
REIMBURSED TREE WORK AND LAND-

SCAPING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5,000.
PUBLIC UTILITY TREE WORK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25,000.
STREET TREE PLANTING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 18,650.
UNALLOCATED ACCOUNTS (largely for rehabili-

tation) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  87,400.

Total Parks and Recreation, Maintenance
and Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3,178,522.
REFECTORIES AND CONCESSIONS
Salaries and Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ 179,671.
Other Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 420,975.
' 600,646.
Total Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$3,779,168.
CAPITAL COSTS
Land Acquisition . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$1,750,000.
Park Development . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 300,000.
Land Acquisition and Park Devel-
opment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250,000.
Belle Isle Skating Pavilion . . . . . . . 120,000.
Others . . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 168,500.
2,588,500
Grand Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$6,367,668.
REVENUE ESTIMATED
Refectory Sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ 700,000.
'Golf Course Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 175,000.
Bathhouses, Pools, and Beaches

Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55,000.

Other Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79,100.

Bequests and Legacies . . . . . . . . . . .. 46,250.

Concessions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38,000.

Others . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70,064.
—— 1,163,414.
Net Tax Budget . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$5,204,254.

RECREATION

The interesting and hearten-
ing story of the Tribune Fresh
Air Fund and how it grew,
showing ways in which public-
spirited people of a small
community can serve others
less fortunate than themselves.

Barbara Carrel]

VERYONE HAS A different delinition for the

word “recreation.” However, recreation is
defined in the dictionary as a “pleasurable occupa-
tion”—an interpretation which embraces a larger
area than that of individual or team .activity. This
is the story of an organization which has been
“pleasurable” in the widest sense because it was
founded upon the principle of sharing.

In 1877, a young clergyman, the Reverend Wil-
lard Parsons, was transferred from an impover-
ished immigrant section of New York to Sherman,
Pennsylvania. The healthy, active country chil-
dren he met offered sharp contrast to the pale city
youngsters he had once known. Reverend Par—
sons was not a man to discard sad memories. He
suggested to his congregation that they invite
needy children from New York for a summer
holiday—hot, narrow streets and tenement shad-
ows were to be exchanged for the bounty of clean
air, grassy slopes, and the hospitality of country
homes.

The Sherman parishioners greeted this plan

JUNE 1948

 

with enthusiasm, and their response became the
model for today’s Friendly Towns. However, it
was immediately apparent that many more rural
hosts were needed to take care of thousands of
deserving, city-pent children. The kindly pastor
presented his problem to the late VVhitelaw Reid,
owner-publisher of what was then the New York
Tribune, who became so interested in the vacation
idea that he established the Tribune Fresh Air
Society.

The purpose of this Society was to provide city
children, regardless of race, creed or nationality, a
two weeks’ visit to the country. As wide news-
paper circulation brought the plan to the atten-
tion of the public, donations from individual and
corporate contributors grew rapidly. In 1906, the
Society, or, as it was later called, the Fund, was
able to establish its own summer camps, but the
original concept of a private home vacation con-
tinued to be encouraged. In 1912, the name
“Friendly Town” was given to the many local
communities which played host to New York’s less

111

fortunate youngsters, and an improved method
was evolved to stimulate interest in country towns.
Here is how the plan works today.

In the early spring, while the children are still
in school, Fund representatives travel out of New
York to country areas. It would be impossible for
one person to cover the whole territory of invita-
tions, which come from as far north as Maine,
from as far south as W est Virginia, and, of course,
from all states in-between. Therefore, each repre—
sentative is given a certain region to cover. A
representative has two chief responsibilities. The
first is to meet with Friendly Town committees
already established, to hear their comments on the
past year’s experience, to give them the latest
news of the Fund activities, and to rally more
hosts under the banners of Friendly Town. The
representative notes, acts upon, and refers, if nec—
essary, to Fund headquarters in New York the
suggestions made by local committees.

The second, and equally important, mission of a
representative ’is to .visit new locales where the
Fund’s work is unknown to country residents.
Often a talk with the local minister, a meeting with
the woman’s club, an informal speech to estab-
lished youth committees such as those of the
Rotary, the Kiwanis, the Exchange, the Elks, and

many others, evokes great response to the Friendly.

Town plan. In such cases, the representative has

very little difficulty. A local club, already well- _

organized, can easily appoint a subcommittee to

publicize Friendly Town, elicit invitations, and,

correspond with the Herald Tribune Fresh Air
Fund in New York concerning the number of
young guests invited, their arrival and departure

schedules, and so forth. Such a committee must
also point out that all journey expenses are paid
from the Fund, which is supported by donations,
but that the actual small cost of the child’s visit is
borne by the host.

Not all country towns are organized in this
manner. Personal calls by the Fund’s representa-
tive on leading citizens is another method by which
the Friendly Town plan is introduced and inter—
preted. Individual sponsors are encouraged to
form a committee. The Fund’s representative sup-
plies all necessary information, and {ills requests
for pamphlets and publicity posters. Personal let—
ters of congratulation, and offers of assistance in
planning are sent from the New York office to the
chairman responsible.

However, the real reward for the efforts of local
Friendly Town committees is the evident delight
of their small guests. A child’s gratitude is a clear
and lovely thing. It does not need to be expressed
in words. It may be seen in the tanned bodies, the
summer-pink cheeks, the mouths wide with laugh-
ter—all signs of a renewed vitality. It may be
seen, too, in his vast interest in country life. “A
barn, a real barn! So that’s what cows look like.”
“I never was on a picnic before.” “Watch me!
I’m swimming.” Enthusiasm such as this is coined
from the world’s Iinest mint based on a standard,
not of' gold, but of a more durable wealth, the
pleasure of sharing.
fr Friendly Town hospitality is not merely a sea-
sonal affair. This past year, for instance, many
young guests were invited for Christmas holidays
in the country. Fresh snow and sledding on coun-
try roads form part of an experience just as new

 

Evening hours pass happily during
a white Christmas in New England.

112

“What does a cow look like?” is a question which has been answered
for this little girl who is now feeling at home with her new friend.

RECREATION

and exciting to city youngsters as the summer
swimming hole or July picnics. The many
Friendly Town hosts, who wish to have former
guests return, can make special arrangements with'
the Fund’s office. In some cases, the child’s entire
family has been offered a vacation. A cool barn

.‘-;« «m.

 

1,55

‘ - h
-  ..._..-_-_ ,m-W an FM... 7

Hospitality is hot a seasonal affair. Fresh snow in
the country is new and exciting to city children.

has turned into a summer home for parents and,
in a gay, camping mood, city families have dis-
covered country blessings.

Actually there is far more to this program than
a country vacation. A child’s revised conception
of what life is like outside the city may turn out
to be more important than the pounds he gains.
New attitudes toward property, toward responsi-
bility for his behavior, toward others who have
different standards of living are significant.

Some- persons, who had been invited to Friendly
Towns as children, return to their holiday sites to
live and work and grow in a country community.
Occasionally, the hosts have actually adopted the
needy children sent by the Fund. These examples
of the success of the Towns are spontaneous.
Their increase is not caused by Fund encourage-
ment alone, but rather by the ties of individual
sympathies and kindliness between hosts and their
city children.

LOCAL COMMITTEES

The rural end of Tribune Fresh Air Fund
work is handled by interested groups of people
in local communities. Such groups organize as
Friendly Town committees and, among other
functions, elicit invitations from private homes
which offer a two weeks’ stay to tenement
youngsters. For further details, write The

New York Herald Tribune, New York City.

.0.

any Kiri/d *

EDNA CASLER J OLL

Every child should know a hill . . .
' And the clean joy of running down its long slope
With the wind in his hair.
He should know a tree . . .
The comfort of its cool lap of shade,
And the supple strength of its arms
Balancing him between earth and sky

So he is creature of both.

He should know some bit of singing water . . .
The strange mysteries in its depths, ~
And the long sweet grasses that border it.

Every child should know some scrap

Of uninterrupted sky, to shout against;
And have one star, dependable and bright,

For wishing on.

 

* Reprinted by special permission from the Ladies’ Home Journal. Copyright 1943, The Curtis Publishing Company.

JUNE 1948

113

Many present day leaders are

those who benefited from these early training schools

0

BlaZing Training Trails in a New Frontier.

WILLARD C. SUTHERLAND

OVER FORTY YEARS ago serious attention was
centered upon training for recreation work-
ers. At the first National Recreation Congress in
Chicago in 1907, the subject of training was dis-
cussed and, as a result, the Committee on a Nor-
mal Course in Play was formed.

After careful investigation of the work being
done throughout the country, and to meet the de-
mand for playground directors, three courses on
play were organized as follows:

I. “A Course for Grade Teachers,” designed to
train normal school students and grade teachers
to take charge of play periods, recesses and other
'outdoor activities of the school.

2. “An Institute Course in Play,” for those en-
tering playground service for only a short period
and for those already employed without previous
training.

3. “A Normal Course in Play for Professional
Directors.”

In 1909 “The Normal Course in Play” was
published by a committee of twenty-three mem-
bers, of which Dr. Clark W. Hetherington was
chairman and Dr. Henry S. Curtis, secretary. Dr.
Luther H. Gulick, Lee Hanmer, Dr. James H.
McCurdy, George E. Johnson, and other impor—
tant members of the committee are listed in the
publication. The work of the committee was car-
ried on under the auspices of the National Recrea-
tion Association, which at that time was known as
the Playground and Recreation Association of

America.
The last revision of “The Normal Course in

Play” occurred in 1925, and the “Introduction to
Community Recreation,”———the modern version—
was born. These publications have been available
through the years and have been used widely as
textbooks in the many schools, colleges and uni-
versities training recreation workers.

114

Field Service to Colleges
As chairman of the Association’s first training
committee, Dr. Hetherington was well-informed
regarding the problem. It was fortunate that a
man with his qualifications was available in 1910
and 1911 to work for the Association, visiting a
large number of normal schools and colleges to
advise faculty members on courses in play. At
one time his schedule was made out almost a year
in advance. In later years, Eugene T. Lies, of the

Association’s staff, gave similar service.

Training Institutes

In order to make more effective the recreation
service in World War I, “Local Intensive Train-
ing Institutes” were conducted, and in 1918 the
“Local Social Recreation and Games Training
Institutes” were established. Later, specialists in
music, drama, nature, and crafts were added as the
recreation movement expahded and as the demand
for training increased. At one time, four full-time
workers were kept busy conducting training for
workers among rural people. Today the Associa-
tion’s training staff is conducting institutes in more
than 150 communities during a year and is reach-
ing annually approximately 25,000 paid and volun-
teer leaders from a large number of public and
private agencies.

Community Recreation Schools

These schools were set up on a cooperative
basis, March 1920, in an effort. to build up the
recreation profession. Only essentials could, of
course, be covered in these six-week training
periods which continued into 1926. An average of
thirty-five students attended each of the twenty-
six schools.

National Recreation School
Because of the favorable response to these vari-
ous efforts to prepare leaders for recreation serv-
ice, many felt that the Association’s twenty years

RECREATION

of experience in this specialized field, with its ac-
cumulation of material on all phases of recreation,
and with its personal contact with hundreds of
local communities, should be made available for
advanced training. Consequently, the National
Recreation School for professional graduate train-
ing was established in 1926. As in the “Commu-
nity Recreation Schools” the enrollment was lim-
ited to approximately thirty-five students.

After nine years of operation the National Rec-
reation School closed in 1935—the depression was
making it increasingly difficult for the graduates
to find the kind of administrative and supervisory
positions for which they were being prepared. At
the present time, however, the Board of Directors
once again has authorized the continuance of this
training, but no date has been set for its operation.

Many present day leaders in recreation are those
who benefited by these early training schools and
were influenced by the lectures of such outstanding
men as Joseph Lee and George E. Johnson. (Mr.
Johnson conducted the Andover Play School for
three summers in 1898, 1899 and 1900. He was
Superintendent of Playgrounds in Pittsburgh for
six years. Joseph Lee paid Mr. Johnson’s salary
for five years as teacher of play and recreation on
the faculty of the Graduate School of Education,
Harvard University. Joseph Lee, himself, lectured
on play for one year at Harvard.)

Apprentice Training

As the National Professional Graduate School
was closing, plans were underway for the training
of a more limited number of workers for top ad-
ministrative positions. Apprentice fellowships
were made available immediately in 1935 and al-
though interrupted somewhat during the war, the
apprentice training is continuing today.

The candidates receive a fellowship stipend of
$100 a month and are assigned to well-organized
recreation departments for a year of rotated work
and study.

Training in Emergencies

Many things happened in 1935. The National
School closed temporarily; the apprentice training
program was established, and a new type of train-
ing institute was launched. The “new look” in
institutes was prompted by the need for more in-
tensive training in the field with the workers right
on the job. Hundreds of new workers without
much previous training or experience were serv-
ing on recreation projects made possible by the
Federal Government’s Emergency Relief Program.
These and experienced workers alike crowded into
the four-week training institutes which were spon-

lUNE 1948 '

 

A present day-training institute under the leadership
of Anne Livingston, National Recreation Association.

sored by local agencies and conducted by the
Association.

Literally, training had been mounted on wheels
and rolled out on to the firing line. These major
institutes embraced courses in music, drama, na-
ture, crafts, social recreation and games, organiza-
tion and administration and were staffed by the
Association’s most experienced specialists. From
Labor Day 1935 to late June 1936 a total of 3,823
students attended the sixteen institutes which were
held in the large cities in the East and Middlewest.

The extensive WPA recreation projects brought

into being additional training, and many state WPA

in-service training programs from 1935 to 1937
extended opportunities to hundreds of workers.

As the war clouds gathered and the country
mobilized for all-out war effort, the need for still
additional training was inevitable. All too quickly
it became necessary for such agencies as the Amer-—
ican Red Cross and the United Service Organiza-
tions, Incorporated, to induct large numbers of men
and women to man the clubs and other’recreation
services demanded by World War II. Because of
the urgency of the situation, many workers, in the
beginning, were assigned without training. Short
intensive institutes were organized as quickly as
possible, and training was conducted by these
agencies throughout the war. The American Red
Cross organized its four-week basic recreation
school in July 1943. At about the same time, the
USO set up concentrated three-week pre-service
orientation courses in New York, organized re;
gional training workshops 'and refresher courses
throughout the country, and conducted in-service
training by means of a supervisory traveling staff
and with the help of published directives and pro—-
gram materials. Also, the military organized. and
conducted training for those who were to carry on

115

the recreation activities of the Special Services
Branch of the Army and the Recreation and Wel-
fare Service of the Navy.

The need for, and value of, such training is evi-
denced by its carry-over since the war. Training
institutes, workshops, and conferences of various
descriptions have been cr0pping up right and left
in all parts of the country. Some are sponsored
by different types of state agencies giving recrea-
tion service; others by cooperative groups,
churches, or individuals just free-lancing in the

field.

Colleges and Universities

Reference has been made to the field service
given to colleges. In 1926, about twenty-two years
ago, a study of courses indicated that 100 institu-
tions were giving recreation courses. A recent
study made by the Association has brought reports
from 329 colleges and universities offering one or
more courses in recreation. Some have only a
single course on the undergraduate or graduate
level; some report minors and majors in under-
graduate training and others offer graduate work
leading to Master and Ph.D. degrees with speciali-
zation in recreation.

Several years ago, in response to requests, the
Association prepared “A Suggested Four-Year
Undergraduate Curriculum” based upon years of
study and experience and after consultation with
leaders in the fields of recreation and higher edu-
cation.

The first National Conference on the College
Training of Recreation Leaders was held at Min-
nesota University in December 1937. Subsequent
meetings have been held at North Carolina Uni-
versity in April I939 and at New York University
in January 1941.

In January 1948 a Professional Recreation
Leadership Training Conference was held at New
York University, sponsored by the American Rec-
reation Society and the American Association of
Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. At
the present time, plans are underway for a Na-
tional Conference on Undergraduate Professional
Preparation for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation. Recreation will have its own separate
session at this two—week conference which is being
sponsored by a number of national agencies and
cooperative groups. (Held at Jackson’s Mill,
West Virginia, May 16-28, 1948..)

The colleges are facing the question of training
realistically, and are giving serious consideration
to the probable demand for workers, the types of

116

positions available and the salaries being paid.

Also, they appear to be understanding the point
of view that, in a relatively new and expanding
field, training programs and methods need to be
revised frequently and must be kept flexible and
somewhat experimental in nature.

It is encouraging that many schools are attempt-
ing to provide recreation opportunities for the en-
tire student body and to acquaint all with the prob-
lem of helping people find ways of broadening their
lives through healthy and satisfying use of their
leisure time. This is important, for everyone needs
to know about the recreation movement. Busi-
ness and professional people who serve on local
boards and committees; mayors; public officials in'
local, county, state, and national governments;
leaders in state legislative bodies are in positions
to make important decisions affecting recreation.

With the recreation professors keeping in close
touch with the operators in the field, and the in- I
service training programs of local departments
increasing and improving, there is every reason to
believe that the quality of leadership will be en-
riched immeasurably in the immediate years ahead.

 

At the centennial of New York’s City College,
Sidney Herbert Wood, an English educator, asked
the question: What is an “educated man”? In
answer he proposed three “acid tests”: Can you
entertain a new idea? Can you entertain another
person? Can you entertain yourself? Wood named
only a few great men who, .in his judgment, could
pass the test, but added that there are also “a lot
of quite humble persons whom no one knows.”

 

“Do you swear to tell the whole truth. . . ?”

RECREATION

Camping Programs

for Special Days

S. Theodore Woal

E, IN CAMPING, are pledged to aid other
educational institutions in the deveIOpment

of an enlightened- citizenry—future citizens who
are alert and intelligent and who will demand the
settlement of international diSputes by peaceful
methods. Consequently, we must re—examine the
camping objectives concerned with the social ad-
justment of youngsters, and reorientate our em—
phasis in order to stress deve10pment of an ability
to live together with the peoples of all nations as
well as with the people of our own nation.

The celebration of holidays, other historical
events and personages has always been used as
one of the means of furthering the broad social
objectives of camping. Hitherto, such celebrations
have usually been confined to those of national sig-
nilicance, and the international and intercultural
ramilications of such occasions have been matters
of individual camp programming policy. In this
post war period, however, international implica-
tions can no longer be a matter of secondary im-
portance. There is a primary need for interna-
tional understanding.

The social objectives of camping, therefore,
must become international.

Types of Activities

In order to more effectively meet the new em-
phasis, experiences based on holidays should go
beyond one-day celebrations. Stories, plays, pag-
eants, camplires, clubs, musicals, discussion groups
and the other activities which we normally use are
excellent mediums for utilizing the creative ability
of campers and counsellors in developing sustained
holiday programs. These should be supplemented
by the utilization of the customs, folk music,
dances, games and experiences of other nations.
This type of activity, interwoven into various
phases of the camp program, will form the basis
for a continuous program aimed at intercultural

JUNE 1948

understanding. For example, a Pan-American
liesta utilizing the folk songs and music of our
South American neighbors, or an athletic display
based on the games of some other country, pre-
sent concretely the types of experiences that make
for a better understanding of these pe0ples.
Suggested basis for a Pan—American fiesta:

1. Flag Ceremony—Jbased on the customs of each coun-
try; done in costume and in the original tongue, if practical.

2. Morning—games and sports of various countries;
demonstrations, contests, and the like.

3. Arfternoon—arts and crafts of the nations.

4. Twilight Activities—stories of the nations.

5. Evening Activities (social hall or campiire)—folk
music, dances, playlets of the nations.

A program based on the above outline would
involve practically every department in camp. The“
types of activity suggested are not new to camp-
ing; only the emphasis is different.

Suggestions for a “Fourth of July” celebration:

1. Morning Flag Ceremony—make it a special one—-
different from other days—use the “American’s Creed”
by \Villiam Tyler; penhaps add a song, a color guard.

2. Morning Period—demonstrtaions of “Our Ameri-
can Heritage”—-such as pioneering—Indian Dances and
the Boston Tea Party, Paul Revere, and so forth.

3. Afternoon Period—music, songs, stories, plays illus—
trating the struggle for democracy here and in other

countries: France, South America, Philippines, Puerto
Rico.

4. Campfire—~ta'bleaux: Patrick Henry; Washington at

Valley Forge; Lincoln at Gettysburg; President Roose-
velt and the four freedoms; a memorial to those who lost

their lives in World Wars I and II; the United Nations
Organization.

Illustrate the need for each of us to prepare for
an active and constructive part in the strengthen-
ing and preservation of peace and democracy.

The desired outcomes. of democratic thinking—
equality of nations and peoples and the common
struggle for peaceH—must be made part of every
phase of camp life. The permanent and long time
value of the occasion may be lost if the principles
involved do not pervade the planning and organi-
zation of all camp activity. Entire camp resources
should be attuned to the primary objectives.

Source Materials

One tool which will aid counselors and campers
in the preparation of sustained activities based
on historical events is a calendar of important
days. Three excellent sources of such information
are: America-n Book of Days; Anniversaries and
Holidays; Red Letter Days. These books, in addi-
tion to a calendar of days, contain brief notes on
each day, suggestions for Observances, biographi-
cal material of books, plays, songs, and so on.

117

Other excellent materials for holiday and spe-
cial day celebrations:

A Festival of Freedom

Americans All

Children of the Americas

1 Hear America Singing

List of Pageants, M asqnes, and Festivals with Organi—
zation Directions

Pan-American Carnival

Plays and Pageants Based on Incidents in American
History, and Other Patriotic Themes

Our Neighbors in the S onth

The Four Freedoms

The Torches of Freedom

th0 Are the United States

Young Americans in Action

Youth at War Pageant

o All of the above are published by the National
Recreation Association in New York City. In ad-
dition, get a copy of The Pocket Book of America
(Book No. 182—Pocket Book, Incorporated) and

have on hand Ballad for Americans and the Lone-
some Train.

Additional :

A New Kind of Camp, T. W. Patrick, Parents Maga—
zine, May 1946.

Mary Emogene Hazeltine, American Library Associa-
tion of Chicago, 1944.

Red Letter Days, Mrs. E. H. Sech-rist—Macras, 1940.

Try the following sources for further information:
'Dhe United Nations Educational Bureau, New York.
Pan-Union Association, Washington.

Bureau of Intercultural Relations, 221 West 57th
Street, New York.

Children’s Bureau, Department of Labor, Washington.
Embassies of the Nations, Washington.

Play Schools Association, New York.
Office of Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs.

Local Public Libraries.
Library of Congress.

American Historical Association.
State Historical Associations.

O-

T HAS BEEN said that if you give a boy a board,
I a saw, hammer, nails, and a little time, he is
liable to build most anything his boyish imagina-
tion can 'conceive.

We, at Kingdom House Settlement in St. Louis,
decided to put that old maxim to test. However,
instead of carpentry tools and lumber we gave a
group of boys some flour, a measuring spoon,
shortening, a few other ingredients and let them
see what they could cook up. And it proved to us,
as well as to community people, that a cooking
class for boys between the ages of nine and thir-
teen years cannot only create a lot of interest
but a lot of fun as well. The boys learn to do
many chores in the kitchen, and the class can serve
a definite purpose towards bettering everyday
meals in the poorer homes.

At the outset, our reasons for organizing a boys’
cooking class were based on several known facts
concerning the type of meals their mothers usually
prepared for their children.

We knew that the children generally ate hastily
and ill-prepared meals; that very little thought, if
any at all, was ever given to meals as something to
help the human machine to function properly and
contribute the fuel necessary to the growing of
strong and healthy youngsters. Many parents, in
the community which we serve, do not understand
the importance" of nutritive meals nor a balanced
diet. For the same reason they do not understand
that simple cleanliness—with soap and water—is
necessary for prevention of disease and for healthy

118

Boys Can Cook!

A Settlement

growth. Their three meals a day, for a goodly
number, are taken as a matter of course; that is,
they accept the act of eating meals just as they
accept the act of putting on clothes every morning;
these things are necessary, but a matter of routine.
So long as the kids get something to eat, why does
it matter what or how it is cooked? Some parents
in our neighborhood seemingly have a complete
lack of interest in, or anxiety about, the prepara-
tion of food for a nutritious and balanced diet.

Thus, you can readily understand that the rea-
sons for organizing a class were many. But why
so much emphasis on teaching the boys to cook?

Because, we have found that a mother has a
great feeling of pride in her son. And since we
require the boy to take home a part of what he
cooks and give it to his mother, or dad, we feel
that when she sees his accomplishments she will
strive to improve his meals at home.

With the foregoing facts well in mind, we pro-
ceeded to “feel out” the boys to determine if such
a class would be accepted by them and if enough.
would be interested in joining.

RECREATION

It is significant to mention that without so much
as putting up a poster or advertising in any way,
other than to ask some'of the boys if they would
like to learn to cook, the news spread like pancake
batter on a hot griddle, and we were swamped with
requests. Many of the boys, of course, were merely
curious, while some said it was for “sissies.” Also,
many of them were over the age limit we had set
——but these boys are being kept in mind for a
future class for older boys.

Since, for obvious reasons, it was necessary
that we limit to twelve the number of boys who
could start in the initial class, we set up a few
simple rules by which to qualify them.

First: To be eligible a boy must be between
nine and thirteen years of age.

Second: There could be only one boy from any
single family in the class: i.e. if there were two
brothers between the ages of nine and thirteen, the
older of the two was accepted.

Third : A boy could not belong to more than

Eldon Underwood

Experiments

three groups, classes, or clubs, (cooking class in-
cluded) that met weekly.

Fourth : He must attend cooking class regularly.
Should he miss two classes in succession, or two
within any one month, he would be dropped and
another boy would replace him.

Fifth: He must take home whatever he had
cooked in class that day to show to his mother or
dad.

As proof that the boys, after bragging and show-
ing off their culinary art to the “non-members,”
are taking home the things they cook, one young—
ster reported that his father was going to give him
a dime each time he brought his dish home for his
father to eat. We are hoping that parent coopera-
tion and encouragement will be even more evident
by the time the class is a year old. If one parent
feels that his son is learning a good thing, perhaps
by the time we find it possible to organize other
cooking classes for boys, the majority of parents
will express the same feeling.

Our boys’ cooking class, since its origin, has had
to use the kitchen in the girls’ department because,

JUNE 1948 ~

of course, there are no cooking facilities in the
boys’ building. When the girls were first ap-
proached on the idea of using their equipment,
they voiced a mild protest. “We don’t want any
roughneck boys messing in our kitchen,” they
said. "Why, they’ll break half our dishes the first
time.” But after nearly six months not a dish has
been broken. When the boys leave at the end of
class, the kitchen is clean and tidy and everything
has been returned to its proper place. It gives us
a deep feeling of pride to see those youngsters
washing dishes, pots and pans—which is some-
thing, I’ll grant you, they don’t do at home! But
in class it’s fun and they like doing it.

If I were asked to name the one thing that has
been our greatest obstacle in organizing and con-
ducting our boys’ cooking class at Kingdom
House, I would say that it was the difficulty we
encountered in trying to find a suitable instructor.

The instructor is the rock upon which the class
is built. It was necessary for us to postpone, for
over nine months, the first session of the class
while we exhausted every known and available
source to locate a woman who was willing to
undertake such a responsibility.

The leader of such a group must have the ability
to cope with disciplinary problems; she must also
have unlimited energy, be faithful and |regular in
her attendance, have skill as a cook, a warm
friendly disposition and be a person who loves
boys. 'At Kingdom House we have been fortunate
in having just such a capable volunteer leader for
our cooking class, and any success that the class
has attained, or any objectives that it may have
reached, are owed to her untiring efforts and
skillful planning. .

Although the class has created a lot of interest
among the boys, and they are having a lot of fun
in their first attempt at cooking, and while there
have been faint signs that the parents are inter-
ested, we do not feel, by any means, that we have
made any sizable inroad into solving the major
problem——that of showing the mothers the neces-
sity of giving a little thought to the proper diet of
their children.

We do feel, however, that we are approaching
the problem from a definitely practical angle. But
many, many more cooking classes will have to be
organized over a period of several years before
the community is influenced to any degree. How-
ever, when several Jims and Johnnys run home and
say, “Mother, let’s have a green, tossed salad to-
night—we made some in cooking class,” then we’ll
know that our efforts, and our money will have
been spent for something that is well worthwhile.

119

 
  
  
  
 
 
  

Nature Lure

Although nature hobbies last all-year-round,
it is in the summer months that they really
come into their own. From nooks and cran-
nies, from classrooms, homes, businesses, the
hobbiests emerge. Grandpa picks up his cane;
grandma goes into the garden; the whole
family scatters, as individuals, groups, nature

   
 
 

  

g . r 7- --  . as? >j'  .., Wart" - - ‘ '
n  3  was»  $5, ,1,
- a - . g, -_.’-"_ - a. r,
-—  +'- x .
" "32-.

‘ 3h

6 - .
gsggae w: 5193?:
«mum “was W3

    

.. -. Ly. _ ..
 “em-w

       

I a ’h’é‘w I'WfooioQ‘   I
12:03:31? mt" -  " .. 1 ~

'Qiol h: I”, ‘
’9“ K y W _. a W ' . -
i ’ *7 “I mi 26"? ME «art’an 921*" “I‘d” 1376030,; km
31*? 98-9301... «on "W" '3” 30-" if“. we G's

  
   

v:
w
i

«at
‘b
1

.\'.¢.'
\

 
 
 

     
  
  

5,, 43w
W:
’9?

    
  

     

M? #1, x.“
l I 5'“.

any» in, we» Mox‘ home "a.

51‘», C “1“ MW . ’0"- MGM-wag 1cm
.  .. “as?- out. «.4; “my,” -
a” 1"“ 3%“); 3o». .1. 1"
’8 em 1*; 4¢¢~§ <

  
    
 
 

    

  
 
 

' - Wit“ Mrs *Q-"ot

 

Much is told from studying height of
trees. They gro‘ur tall in Wisconsin.

  

Molds for making plaster casts of fungi.
Charts are used to stimulate interest.

Earnest groups spend enjoyable afternoons taking advantage of the In the nature day camp of a r
'opportunity to study nature specimens in their native habitats . . . sters face an introduction to t

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

1e Hobbiests

clubs take to the open trail. Photographs are
taken; specimens are collected for museums,
schools, playgrounds, camps, individual col-
lections; new mysteries are discovered; and
much information is picked up through sheer
enjoyment of a healthy and rewarding outing
on a summer day. Benefits will “carry-over.”

4..., "

A visitor to the Trailside Museum enjoy:
making friends with Pete, the raccoon

   

Because of protective regulations, rarc
canvasbacks can be found in certain areas

department adventuring young- To be friends with nature,-one must be friends with snakes. How“
With varying, dubious reactions. ever, the young lady below does not seenl to agree too heartily . . E‘

 

 

Omar/m

.Dr. William H. Alexander

Recreation Congress

HAT THERE IS widespread interest in the 1948

National Recreation Congress is being dem-
onstrated daily by the thoughtful letters, memo-
randa and telephone calls coming to the Recrea-
tion Congress Committee containing suggestions
as to what should be done in Omaha this year.
These are still arriving so final plans have not yet
crystalized, but delegates will be interested in
some of the decisions already made. In addition
to staff workers of the Association, other members
of the Recreation Congress Committee for I948
are: T. H. Alexander, State Rural Youth Leader,
Lincoln; E. Dana Caulkins, Superintendent of
Recreation in Westchester County; Miss Dorothy
C. Enderis of the Milwaukee Department of Mu-
nicipal Recreation ; R. B. M cClintock, Superintend—
ent of Parks and Recreation in Omaha; Mrs.
Ruby Payne, Director of the Crispus Attucks Rec-
reation Center in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

The Recreation Congress will have its general
opening session on Sunday evening, September
26th, in the beautiful Joslyn Memorial building at
eight o’clock. Please note that this Sunday eve-
ning session is one full day earlier than usual and
will be in the nature of a joint meeting between
the Congress delegates and the community leaders
of Omaha. This will be an attempt to have the
Congress sessions brought closer to the needs of
the city in which the Congress is held and thus
have the city benefit more directly from the Con-
gress. The opening session will be addressed by
Dr. William H. Alexander, pastor of the First
Christian Church of Oklahoma City, who is well-
known as one of the nation’s most stirring relig-
ious speakers. Other unusual features are being
planned for this opening session. Congress dele-
gates are urged to arrive in Omaha not later than
Sunday so that they may take part in this first
meeting. '

Beginning on Monday morning there will be a

122

series of sessions based on the interests and needs
of different groups. Recreation executives particu-
larly should note that there will be a session for
them on Monday, September 27th. Many have
felt the need for this opportunity where executives
could face together their special administrative
problems. The meeting will be open to all, but dis-
cussion in that particular session will be limited
to the chief recreation executives of local park and
recreation agencies. A special committee of execu-
tives, now being organized, will plan this feature
of the Congress program.

Running concurrently will be sessions of the In-
dustrial Recreation Conference. These sessions for
leaders in industry and for workers in recreation
departments serving industry will begin Monday
morning at ten o’clock and run through Tuesday,
September 28th. Among those serving on the In-
dustrial Recreation Conference Advisory Commit-
tee are: Jackson Anderson, President, Industrial
Recreation Directors Association of New York;
G. E. Chew, Assistant Superintendent, Charge of
Personnel, Sun Oil Company; John E. Ernst,
Head, Department of Recreation, National Cash
Register Company; Fred A. Wilson, Coordinator
of Employee Activities, Scovill Manufacturing
Company.

In addition to these two special conferences,

regular Congress discussion meetings will-also be
scheduled for Monday.

Eddie Durlacher, whose square dance calling
was a feature of the New York Recreation Con-
gress, will be with us again in Omaha. In addition
to leading dancing at the general session, he will
offer instruction in square dance calling.

Needs of small towns and rural areas will be
emphasized; and it is hoped that plans can be de-
veloped for training courses of special interest to
rural recreation leaders. Wherever possible, work-
shops and demonstrations will be utilized this year.

A number of committees appointed by the Na-
tional Recreation Association have been working
on problems of special interest to the whole move-
ment. These committees will be asked to arrange
for meetings at the Congress. Among them are
committees on: Training and Experience of Recre-
ation Workers, Community Sports and Athletics,
and Vacation and Tourist Recreation.

It looks as if Recreation Congress exhibits once
again will break all records. Also, advance notices
of delegates planning to come indicate an excellent
attendance. With a fine spirit of cooperation being
shown on all sides, the Recreation Congress for
1948 is once again girding itself for service.

RECREATION

How to organize . . .

Batter Up!

Frank H. Geri

VERYONE WANTS TO play baseball; it’s one
game that doesn’t have to be sold.

In the spring, about a month before school
closes, we send out application blanks and letters
to all the city schools and some of the nearby dis-
tricts, telling youngsters about the baseball league.

These blanks, which have been distributed to
two groups—the Midgets from ages nine to four-
teen and the Juniors from fourteen to nineteen—
ask the following questions: age, date of birth,
school attending, grade, right or left hand batter,
right or left hand thrower, team preference, and
playing position and experience.

With this information on hand, the players are
then divided into groups of pitchers, basemen,
lielders, and the like, and are placed on teams by
coaches from the high school and junior highs.
Where transportation is a problem, we try to get
players from the same area on the same team; and
we do our best to equalize all the teams as much as
possible by balancing the number of offensive
players against the defensive as they are situated
on the field and in batting order to leave no holes.

Teams practice about two weeks and a record is
made of their batting averages. There is always a
big waiting list of late-comers who want to play,
but in about two weeks we know who will be our
regulars. The only determining factor is atten-
dance; anyone who comes regularly plays regard-
less of ability. Only two unexcused absences are
allowed—after which players are put on the end
of the waiting list and replacements are made from
those next in line. We begin with twelve players
to a team and later add up to sixteen players
rather than form new teams.

Each team has a sponsor. The Junior League
is backed by fraternal and service clubs—each club
sends a coach to practices to report on the team’s
progress. There are teams representing a con-
struction company, a creamery, beverage company,
insurance company, a tire dealer and a lumber
company and so on.

The clubs buy twelve suits for their players
which include socks, pants, shirts, caps and em-
blems, or lettering for the back of the suits. The

JUNE 1948

 

The clubs buy twelve suits for their players.

sponsor’s name is placed on the back of the suit,
playlield identification on the front. It is best to
refer to the team by the sponsor’s name for pub-
licity reasons. The clubs also buy the sliding pads.
The boys buy their own shoes and mitts. Once a
club signs a team it sponsors it each year and
provides for the laundry, repair and replacement
of suits. This costs about seventy-live dollars a
season; twelve suits cost between $125-$150. One
league manager takes care of all baseball suits.
Each is stenciled with a number and'is hung in a
special place so that there is never a mix-up.
Each player has a number which corresponds to
his suit, and has no responsibility for it other than
to hang it up when he returns from the game.
The Midgets are given the same opportunity as
other teams. N o charges are made to players for
the coaching or equipment, with the exception of
the shoes and the mitts. These teams were newly
formed this year and we made provisions for only
six teams by contacting industrial companies. The
main problem here is to maintain a variety of
sponsors and permit no duplication. We have a
waiting list of sponsors for the Midgets and ex-
pect to add from two to four teams next summer.
Our Junior American Legions team is spon—
sored by the Legion and the Ford -Motor Com-
pany, and is an all-star team selected by the coach
from the best players of the Junior League. These
youngsters play in a National League sponsored
by the same organizations. The boys are from

123

fourteen to seventeen years of age and that seven-
teenth birthday has to be after January first in
, order that they may be eligible to play.

Also, there is a Junior team which differs from
the Junior Legion team in that nineteen-year-old
players are eligible. The Juniors play their games
in the evening because so many boys work. The
games start about six o’clock, p.1n., and are fre-
quently called because of darkness; but we do try
to get at least seven innings played. Eight games
are played a week—two each day, leaving Satur—
day free for playoffs of any postponed meetings.

The Midget teams play at least twice a week
and can come for instruction before the two o’clock
games. This begins at one o’clock and about three
teams at a time can participate in drills and prac-
tices for batting, infielding, catching, and so forth.
The three team coaches help with the rules, tech-
niques and schedules.

A captain is selected for every team by the
coach. Usually he is a boy who has played with
the club before, and, of course, reSponsibility and
fair play are determining factors. Experience is
also very important because the captain is account-
able for placement when the team is organized.
The directors let him manage this completely and
only make suggestions if favoritism or neglect
seems apparent. Any coaching on the baseline is
done by a member of the team.

Substitutes are assigned to each team and a few
fill-ins are maintained who travel between teams
when needed. These are, for the most part, Mid-
gets who are late in coming and hang around
hoping for the chance to play.

Umpires are hired for the scheduled games.
These boys are usually members of the semi-pro
team in town or are graduated high school or col-
lege students of baseball repute. One director acts
as base umpire and no coaching is done by any
director at the games. An extra director is always
on hand to administer first aid, keep score and
to settle arguments. He takes notes on mistakes
and discusses them at the next practice. Usually
all three directors are present for Midget games.

A record is kept of all games played, and a
trophy is given to the t0p team and another to
the winner of the playoffs among the top four
teams. These cups are donated by local sports
firms and are diSplayed all winter with the win-
ners’ names on them.

Means of Financing

Before the All-Star games, blocks of tickets,
amounting to the total expenses, are sold to insure
costs. Business firms are contacted, but not more
than once a season. Although sponsors are not

124

requested to handle tickets, neither do they receive
complimentary admissions. In this way, every—
thing that is sold at the gate is pure profit. We
pay all transportation and food costs for the boys,
while the playfield budget pays the salaries for
the head instructor—$1.25 an hour; the assistant
directors—$.90 an hour; and the umpire—$2.00
per game. Two ball parks are used, one donated
by the city park board and the other by the high
school board. The latter also provides a caretaker
for the field.

Some interested business man, who has no affil—
iations with the playfields or teams, is chosen to be
treasurer for the League and handles and admin-
isters all the funds received. This relieves the
director of all responsibility. Usually the playfield
director and the coach are president and vice presi-
dent and the girls’ coach or the secretary for the
playfield program is the secretary for the League.

A Midget Jamboree is always held at the end of
the season. All six Midget teams play at once on
a large ball field where three games can be held at
one time. Each team plays three innings and
moves one. diamond to the right. They retain the
same opponent, and actually have a real nine-
inning game, each team having the opportunity to
play three innings before the grandstand. With
so many participants, there are a good many inter-
ested spectators. The Juniors also have a Jam-
boree at the beginning of the season. Fifty cents
admission is charged.

Proceeds from the Jamboree and the All-Star
game go into a League fund that buys bats, balls,
first base mitts, catchers’ paraphernalia and other
equipment, and pays for the food and transporta—
tion of all the stars in their home and out-of-town
games. Transportation is provided by private cars
and their gasoline is bought from the fund.

No, indeed, baseball needs no sales talk. When
you begin to chat with a would-be sponsor, he
gets that old light in his eyes, settles back in his
chair and reminisces of his baseball days. He is
soon selling the program to you.

 

Sing While You Drive*. . .

At 45 miles an hour: “Highways Are. Happy

Ways.”
At 55 miles an hour: “I’m But a Stranger Here,

Heaven Is My Home.” _
At 65 miles an hour: “Nearer My God To Thee.”

At 75 miles an hour: “When the R011 Is Called

Up Yonder I’ll Be There.”
At 85 miles an hour: “Lord, I’m Coming Home.”

 

* Reprinted from Chicago Park District Bulletin.

RECREATION

_ World “at Play

" ‘\ «. I
. ,. ‘ "
' ‘,

It’s Gigantic! It’s Colossal !——“Bigger and
better than ever,” the All-American Soap Box
Derby is with us again. The Derby will _be run
this year in 150 communities of the United States,
Alaska, Canada and the Panama Canal Zone. Each
of the towns or cities participating will send a
champion to Akron, Ohio, to compete on August
15 in the national and international finals of the
“greatest amateur racing event in the world.” The
sponsors—the Chevrolet Motor Division and the
leading American newspapers—estimate that be-
tween 30,000 and 50,000 boys between the ages of
eleven and fifteen will participate in the races.

The Soap Box Derby is strictly a coasting race
for boys who build their own racing cars. Pro-
fessionalism and assistance from parents are out-
lawed and no car may cost more than six dollars
plus the price of a commercially-built wheel-and-
axle set. The 1948 rules, fixed by the National
Derby Rules Committee, tend to open the race
more fully to boys of average mechanical ability by
eliminating fancy, super-streamlined designs, elab-
orate plastic Windshields and complicated steering
devices. As always, the rules stress safety, good
sportsmanship and democracy. Every boy has an
equal opportunity to emerge from the giant compe-
tition as the national champion, with nationally—
recognized honors and the grand prize, a four-
year college scholarship.

0

New Interests—"The Second Annual Hobby
Show for Older People will be held June 9—13 at
the American Museum of Natural History, under
the sponsorship of the Welfare Council of New
York City. There will be no fee charged to ex-

lUNE 1948

.‘5

 s

*‘wm‘grge .wv'» s. - .. .
. t J \3 . %-  -- , H . :-.-_.
 h   e. .‘r j ‘3 ’,.", ~' ‘ ‘ x .‘I

F

 

hibitors, and any person, sixty or over, living in
the metropolitan and surrounding areas, may enter
his work. Suggested items for the show include
paintings, drawings, sculpture, creative writing,
weaving, textile decoration, gardening, needlecraft,
glass blowing, woodwork, collections (buttons,
fans, spoons and the like), and whatever else the
exhibitors may wish to display. In fact, the aim
of the Hobby Show is to encourage growth of new
interests in older persons. Entry blanks are avail-
able on request from the Welfare Council of New
York City, 44 East 23rd Street, New York 10.

By Crackey!-——They had a gen—u-wine ole
time, country fair on May first in Purchase, New
York. The invite said Come Early (1:00 p.111.)
and Stay Late (1:00 a.m.) and that sure was a
good idea for there was plenty to see. Homemade
food, handwork, plants, fiowers, white-elephants,
children’s crafts and toys were exhibited and sold.
Games of skill and chance for mom, pop and junior
corn cobblers were held both indoors and out. It
was real entertainin’ and ejucational, too—food, a
pet show, airyplane and archery exhibits, fashion
show (with girls), movies, ballet class, drawing
and dancing. All proceeds were for the benefit of
the Purchase PTA and the Community House.

A Program to Watch—Renton, Washington,
is conducting an interesting recreation course for
the juniors and seniors in its high school. The
course in “Recreation Leadership Training” con-
sists of one-hour class work every day and a mini-
mum of 125 hours of field work. In the field, stu—

125

dents are encouraged to take active part in leader-
ship and to inaugurate and organize new activities.
The objects of these sessions are to give actual
training and experience in recreation under trained
leaders to develop an appreciation of the overall
field of recreation. It is the recreation depart-
ment’s hope, of course, that some of these teen-
agers will become interested in recreation work,
but the primary objective of the training is to en-
able them to take an active part in recreation when
they enter adult life, and, perhaps, to help ‘organize
programs in their communities. There are now
eight students enrolled in the course this year, and
next year, in anticipation of a great demand, the
class will be increased to twenty-five.

Here, indeed, is an experiment-T—combining the
initiative of youth and the values of recreation—
which is well-worth watching and encouraging.

Encore! Encore! — Capacity audiences ap-
plauded the two performances of “Fantasy in
Rhythm,” a three—act musical show, presented
April 17-18 by the employees of Sport Products,
Incorporated—an athletic equipment firm of Cin-
cinnati, Ohio. Personnel from every department
in the plant and from the MacGregor-Goldsmith
and MacGregor Golf divisions lent their talents to
the production. Even the costumes for the “Circus
Days,” “In Old Vienna,” and “Mardi Gras”
themes were designed, sewed and fitted under em-
ployee direction. Principals and members of the
singing and dancing choruses and all the backstage
crew gave excellent performances, but it was their
wonderful spirit of cooperation which really

starred.
o

Belated, But Sincere, Wishes—Happy birth-
day to the one-year-old! March I, 1948 marked
the first anniversary of the Council Bluffs Depart—
ment of Public Recreation. Despite being at the

SQUARE DANCERS

Learn to Dance and Call Square Dances, C. D. Foster,

Part I or Part II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sl.00
Year’s subscription to AMERICAN SQUARES, the Ameri-

can Folk Dance Magazine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$l.00
Special Offer, Part I and subscription . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$l.60
Charley Thomas: 12 Homemade Square Dances . . . . . . . .8 .50

Lloyd Shaw: Cowboy Dances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$4.00
Grace Ryan: Danccs of Our Pioneers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$3.00
Tolman & Page: The Country Dance Book . . . . . . . . . . . .83.00
Grace Fox: Folk Dancing in High Schools and Colleges. .33.00
Durward Maddocks: Swing Your Partner . . . . . . . . . . . . .$l.50
Albert Johnson: Old Time Ballroom Dances . . . . . . . . . . .5 .75
Ralph McNair: Western Square Dances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$l.00
Ann Hastings Chase: The Singing Caller . . . . . . . . . . . . .3150

We have a large stock of otherwise unavailable books and
records, with and without calls, write for our catalogue.

AMERICAN SQUARES

The American Folk Ilagasine
ill-7 DELAWARE STREET,‘WOODBURY, N. J.

 

126

toddling and toppling stage, the department has
managed to run up a number of accomplishments:
ten public playgrounds under supervision of
trained leaders and within reach of all children; a
three-day playground leaders’ institute; a series of
game nights for adults; an all-activity day and
junior olympics for boys and girls—452 young—
sters participating; on a loan basis, picnic kits con-
sisting of games materials for small groups; book—
mobile service and story hours for children on
summer playgrounds, and other important recrea-
tion contributions.
0

Swing Your Partner—.It’s do-si-do and
around we go W‘ednesday evenings for Greens-
boro, North Carolina, square dance enthusiasts.
Approximately 320 people have registered for
membership in the Square Dance Club, formally
organized at the first public square dance spon—
sored by the Greensboro Recreation Department
in january. Dances are held for club members
only but anyone else who is interested in the pro—
gram may apply for membership by obtaining .a
recommendation from a charter member, securing
approval of the supervisor at the door during a
dance, and paying membership dues at the door.

0

Family Living—In its proposed policy and
action program for 1948, the North Dakota Farm-
ers Union had this to say while discussing a plan
for improved family living: “Recreation, long
recognized as socially desirable, is now seen to be
economically necessary to maintain and develop
morale in the national health and well being . . .
We urge further development of cooperative rec-
reation, including community centers, which the
Farmers Union has pioneered, and that such recre-
tation facilities be available to people of the entire
community, under community sponsorship, but
financed, where necessary, with public funds.”

n.=--=--—---—--—--—_--=--=II=--
.._-_ -_- _I_
.. ..——I.—II—I. .I—‘I—n—I- .-

 

- a
it'll

Ill FOLK DARCE ll

 

 Send for list to:

- The Folk Dancer Magazine 

 MICHAEL HERMAN, Editor 'I'
3 P. 0. Box 201 FLUSHING, L. 1. 

 0 Records 
:-: 0 Books 
m . Music . . =-=
:-: 0 Dance Directions 
 Authentic Information Service 

 

RECREATION

A Fun in a Housing TDrOject

R. T.. McSPADDEN writes of a new recreation program and

of the enthusiastic interest sustained through a summer.

F YOU WERE a visitor at Bunavista in the Texas
Panhandle last summer, the chances are that
you were impressed by the large groups of boys
and girls busily engaged in playing tennis, basket‘
ball, softball, baseball, pitching horseshoes out—
side the community building. If your curiosity
prompted you to go inside, you would have been
further impressed at the “beehive” of activity in-
side the spacious interior.

Bunavista, located approximately three miles
west of Borger, Texas, is a housing project for
employees of the Phillips Petroleum Company.
The need for a program of supervised recreation
for the children in that area had long been recog-
nized by the company. Accordingly, the initial
step to establish such a program was put into
effect last year when 385 children of school age
showed up for the first day of activities.

It was arranged that two staff members from
the physical education department of the Buna-
vista public school—Mr. Norman Trimble and
Mrs. Lloyd Cox—take charge. Not only were
they well-qualified to handle their duties, but they
had the additional asset of knowing all of the
youngsters.

On Monday morning, June 2, 194-7, at nine
a.m., the summer recreation program was opened
at the Bunavista community building. The total
enrollment for the fifty-eight days of program was
244 boys and 222 girls. During the summer the
attendance averaged around 185 boys and girls
each day, or a total of 10,771 children for the
entire summer. As this represented thirty-three

per cent of the total playground attendance for
the entire Borger and Bunavista area, this indi-

lUNE 1948

cates that our schedule of activities must have been
attractive and challenging to our youngers.

The program was not compulsory. Two meet—
ings were held daily from nine am. to twelve noon
and from three pm. to five p.m. five days a week
from Monday to Friday inclusive. Wednesday
nights were set aside for night softball games for
all the playgrounds in the Borger-Bunavista area.
Keen rivalry and hard fought games were the fea-
tures of these weekly meets with good sportsman-
ship displayed by both the winners and losers.

Table tennis, shuffleboard, arts and crafts and
rhythm band were conducted within the confines
of our community building, while such sports as
softball, baseball, tennis, basketball, touch football,
and horseshoe pitching were planned on the vari-
ous fields and courts immediately adjacent to the
community building.’ All the above activities
proved to be highly popular with our youngsters,
with softball and baseball possibly drawing the
largest amount of interest.

\Vednesday morning each week was devoted to
swimming and swimming instruction, with the
Borger municipal pool facilities donated to the use
of our group through the courtesy of the City of
Borger. Judging from the number of girls and
boys “squeezing” into the buses every Wednesday
morning, it seemed as if every child in the com-
munity wanted to swim!

Band activity was under the direction of a mem-
ber of the Borger high school faculty—band meet-
ings being held in the Borger high school band
house on regular schedule. A rhythm band was
conducted twice weekly on Mondays and Fridays
at the community building. This event attracted

l'

127

the younger children and it was interesting to
observe their reactions———they seemed to get so
much real enjoyment out of this activity.

The personnel director of the Plains Plant re—
ported that juvenile delinquency problems at
Bunavista decreased appreciably this past summer
as compared to past vacation periods when no
organized recreation program was in effect. Natu—
rally, a dollars and cents value could not be placed
on these recreational benefits, but it is entirely
conceivable that the intangible values will be re—
flected in better citizenship and sportsmanship dis—
played by our boys and girls in the future.

It was interesting to hear some of the comments
about the recreation activities made by parents of
children who participated. One parent reported
that his boy was so tired at night that no extra
urging was needed to get him to bed! A mother
commented that her daughter was so interested in
all of the activities [offered that she could hardly
wait to eat breakfast to start a busy day. All in
all, the various comments reflected that discipline
problems were decreased by keeping the children
busy with interesting events all day. The enthu-
siasm and interest of the children, themselves,
held throughout the summer.

Bennie \Nilkerson, a full-blooded Choctaw In—
dian boy was employed to assist with the softball
program. Bennie did a fine job in seeing that the
softball games were run off with a minimum of
delay.

During the second week in August our Buna-
vista playground group competed with the various
playgrounds in Borger in Special events, swim—
ming, tennis and track events. Our group placed
second in total points in these contests in which
approximately 1,000 youngsters took part. De—
feats in the tennis finals proved the downfall of
our Bunavista group, allowing . the Weatherly
Playground in Borger to win by a bare margin of
three points! This proved to be a very exciting
week of competition for all the girls and boys' in
the Borger-Bunavista area.

Plans are being made to continue our recreation
activities next year, with a broader scope of pro—
gram. In addition to competitive sports, this will
include activities to attract children who do not
care for competitive play but who like to engage
in beadwork, wood carving and other arts and
crafts. Plans to include adult recreation are being
given careful consideration. Inasmuch as the
Bunavista program was so successful in the initial
venture, our company is now making plans to set
up similar recreational programs for other commu—
nities where we are operating. ‘

128

 

This hot argument over a game
of horseshoes was ominous but turned out amiably.

Oh no you don’t!

 

v.

Judging from attendance, it seemed that every child
in the community wanted to sivim whenever possible.

 

An enthusiastic ball player getting ready to “hit one

out of the lot.” Director Trimble in background.

RECREATION

Recreation

Bicycle Skill Tests

A series of skill tests have been used in Winona,
Minnesota—a series developed by the American
Automobile Association to increase interest in safe
and skillful bicycle riding and to provide means of
accurately measuring the skill of an individual in
handling a bicycle under a variety of conditions.

These tests were sponsored by the city recrea-
tion department to promote interest in bicycle
safety locally. Posters announcing competitions
were placed at the playgrounds. Newspapers car-
ried articles announcing the event and also its
results.

The necessary street markings were made on a
level, hard-surfaced street where traffic was
blocked off during the hours of testing. White
painted lines, four inches wide, were used for
marking. The contestants were tested in groups
of ten, and the entire group taken through the
first test before starting the next. Score cards
were mimeographed to accurately record results
for each contestant.

The skill tests included circling, balancing at
slow speed, straight line riding, weaving, riding
between stanchions and stopping on a spot.

A Flying Club

More and more people are becoming air-minded
these days and are wishing that they might enjoy
the pleasures of flying at moderate cost. An in-
formative manual on the subject—“How to Form
a Flying Club”——has recently been put out by the
Aeronca Aircraft Corporation in Middletown,
Ohio. This presents basic principles which, if fol-
lowed, should lead to low cost flying, and offers a
suggested plan and costs-breakdown for a twenty
member club, ten member club, an industrial flying
club. A proposed code of regulations is included.
Copies of the manual are available from the above
company.

Editorial Note: We should like to hear about
any flying clubs now operating successfully!

JUNE _1948

' Suggestion

Box

 

Municipal Picnic Kit

As a service to the citizens of New Britain,
Connecticut, last spring, the Recreation Commis-
sion made up a piCnic box of sports equipment, to
be available to local organizations free of charge
and upon advance reservation at the Municipal
Recreation Office. A deposit of five dollars was
requested, and refunded when the box was re-

‘ turned intact. This service proved very popular

indeed !

In planning the kit, anticipation of hard and
frequent usage led to a search for a durable con-
tainer and the final acquiring of an iron bound
army chest with strong handles and fasteners,
$2.98. The olive drab was covered with cream
Colored paint on which a dark design and letter-
ing stood out clearly. Contents of the box were:
one set of h_orseshoes (4), one pair iron stakes,
volleyball net, volleyball, badminton net, two bad-
minton rackets, three birds, two skipping ropes,
one softball bat, one softball, one deck tennis ring,
one golf club, three cotton golf balls, one paddle
tennis net, four paddle tennis rackets, three bean
bags, three paddle tennis balls, one card file on
games for children, one rule book listing and

 

A treasure-trove to local organizations . . .

129

 

AMERICAN lPPlllllllll

Playground & Swimming
Pool Equipment

4;: 7/0“ and other experienced buyers It takes longer to build AMERICAN

know the wisdom of demanding abundant re- AMERICAN Approved Equipment is constructed
serve strength, proven performance and abso— exclusively of top quality Steels, Certified Malle—
lute safety in your Playground and Swimming ables and finest, carefully seasoned Hardwoods,
Pool Equipment. You know, too, that only all of which continue to be in critically short sup-
highest quality equipment will assure you these ply. Thus, although there are many short-cuts to
vitally essential features. Perhaps that’s why quicker deliveries, American Approved Equipment
so many of you today are placing your confi- just naturally can’t be built and shipped as
dence in American Approved Equipment. Like promptly today as in normal times, if we are to
thousands of satisfied American clients, you’ve maintain American’s rigid pre-war quality stand—
found that unexcelled workmanship, greater ards. You’ll benefit in the long run, however; for
strength, rugged durability and complete safety superior American Approved Equipment will be
are but a few of the many superior features you serving you well many years after inferior, sub,-
get when you buy AMERICAN. sti‘tute-built apparatus has had to be discarded.

 

*  today for Catalogs and descriptive Literature.

Learn why it’s worth waiting a bit longer for American!

AMERICAN

PLAYGRDUND DEVICE C0.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

World’s Largest Exclusive Manufacturers of Fine Outdoor

Playground, Swimming Pool and Home Play Equipment

 

130 RECREATION

explaining twenty-two popular pastimes.

When the box was ready, a photograph and
write-up of the service were run in the local paper.
Response was immediate and resulted in the use
of this equipment by twenty different organizations
during the season.

Equipment

“20 to 2” Game—The cities of Detroit and
Dearborn are featuring this game on their city
playgrounds where the competition has been so
keen that they have established city champions
among the boys and girls of different age levels.
They recommend it for church groups, community
centers and home gatherings as well. Tourna-
ments have been set up in various YMCA’s and
boys’ clubs. “20 to 2” is a game of skill played
by two persons on a board similar to a checker
board only excitingly different. Pawns in the
game are twenty small; red ships and two White
submarines, the object of the game being to get
the red fieet safely maneuvered into the submarine
base. Further information is available from the
Dearborn Industries, Dearborn, Michigan.

Plastic Equipment—The new plastics are in-
vading almost every field, and recreation is no ex-
ception. A variation of the game of darts, for in-

 

HORTONCRAFT

leather Project Kits
TOP QUALITY at Reasonable Prices

Complete kits of specially selected

leather . . . precision-cut . . . care-
fully matched in color. Allow instruct-
ors more time for the educational
features, such as tooling and color-
ing. See them at better craft supply
houses or write for FREE

HANDBOOK direct to the

 
 

pioneer of leather project

kit...
HORTON HANDIORAF

FARMINGTON 2, C

'4 co.
N

T
O

 

 

 

JUNE 1948

stance, is Blow—Dart Archery which is played with
Tenite plastic darts, blown through a tube rather
than thrown. The plastic, though light in weight,
is tough and withstands impact without breakage.
These games are manufactured by the Fleetwood
Archery Company, 4430 East 8th Avenue, Denver
7, Colorado.

While Tenite football helmets have been used
by college teams for some time, models for juniors
are now being made by the Raleigh Company in
New Rochelle, New York. Sand Sailers, on the
other hand, small rubber-tired sailing vehicles with
sails of gay colors, are being made of Vinylite
plastic by Sand Sailers, Incorporated, New York
City, and are u'Sually available at leading depart-
ment stores.

Here’s An Idea . . .

Each year, as regularly as clockwork, a group
of thirteen recreation directors of the city of Los
Angeles, California, band together and take "advan-
tage of the group subscription rate for RECREATION
magazine. It would seem that they had found it
worthwhile. . . . In case you have forgotten, group
rates—for a number exceeding ten subscribers—
bring down individual subscriptions to $2.50 each,
instead of the usual $3.00.

   

   
        
 
  
   
    
   
   
  

MAKING FRIENDS WITH THE STARS. Zadde.

How to identify constellations and planets. Includes .
charts that may be removed from the book for use in 1
actual sky-watching ..................................................................$'I . | i

NATURE FOR ALL. Foaiherstonhaugh.

  

I is “The best one-volume survey of nature ever pub-
lished.”-—Clcment Wood ............................................... ".75:
DRAWING FOR ALL. McIntyre. I I

| Fresh method for self-instruction...-......._..............._-......50c

PHOTOGRAPHY FOR ALL. Featherstonhaugh.

“A thoroughly practical book.”—Amer_£can
Photography .............................................................. .......7$c

FOLK DANCES FOR ALL. Herman.

5: Community dances from fifteen lands. Directions,
9" piano scores, drawings, photographs, background ma-

“ terial ...-m............_..,..-..........-..,.........._........ “$1.00
BALLROOM DANCES FOR All. Parson.
Fox-trot, Waltz, Tango, Rumba, etc...“..n............__.u..75c

PARTY GAMES FOR ALL. Mason and Mitchell..

Hundreds of things-to-do that will make your parties
.JSc

 

    

hum ...“0......................................._..............................._.......

 

3.9”“,

til 

. “tum   i, p

- I  _,....,m mu RL‘L mm“ 1 1
arm onncts . -  Wilma ‘

lll

131

BY ANY STANDARDS

5W! 3M (74% 3M

1. Outwears any 3. Specially designed fabric
other ball made —20% stronger balls

2. Meets oFFlcial 4. Feels right—
standards plays right

BASKETBALLS FOOTBALLS SOCCERBALLS SOFTBALLS 1 VOLLEYBALLS

f NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, LOS ANGELES I]

 -%m’/

a/JJ/e/Zc- gM/mzl

RECREATION

 

News in Recreation

AAU Sponsors Junior Olympics

Miles A. RHODES, President of the Amateur

Athletic Union of the United States, has an-
nounced that arrangements have been completed
for the Junior Olympics in the United States to
be held under the auspices of the AAU. The
U. S. Olympic Committee, at its meeting in New
York in April, granted the AAU official sanction
Of the use of the name “Olympics” in connection
with this project. All who are interested in having
further details should write to William O’Neil,
President of Radio Station WJVV, Cleveland,

Ohio, who has been named Chairman of the AAU
Junior Olympics Committee.

New Free Service

THE A. G. SPALDING COMPANY, in Chicopee, is

inaugurating a new free service to communities
in the New England area. This provides free in-
struction in tennis to schools or recreation depart-
ments. Though limited, at present, to New Eng-
land, such service, if successful, might be extended
to all states. Its purpose is to stimulate better
tennis—there is no commercial obligation or sales
program. Those interested should contact Mr.
H. L. Davenport, A. G. Spalding Company, Chic-
Opee, Massachusetts.

Summer Institutes

THE NEW YORK School of Social Work, Co-

lumbia University, is again offering a series of
summer institutes: Series I—June 21 to July 2;
Series 11—July 12 to July 23; Series III—July
26 to August 6. For further particulars write the

School at 122 East 22nd Street, New York 10,
New York.

Seattle

HE SEATTLE SCHOOL Board, with its expan-

sion building program, is making plans and
providing for new building structures, suitable
entrances, and other facilities which will make pos—
sible after-school and evening use ‘of gymnasiums
and auditoriums for recreation purposes. There is
a close relationship between the School and Park

JUNE 1948

Board executive staffs, and the physical education
and recreation program departments.

The University of Washington, with its exten—
sive building program, is keeping in mind the need
for expansion of the Men’s Physical Education
Department, and its needed facilities.

The Park Department, with its recent public
endorsement and approval of two and one half
million dollars in bonds, in addition to the one
million dollars from the state funds, and its ac-
cumulated reserve funds, should be able to advance
program facilities considerably in the next two
years.

Senate Bill (S. 2277)

ACCORDING TO SOCIAL Legislation Information

Service, both branches of Congress have
passed Senate bill 2277 to provide for the dispo-
sition (with special priorities) of surplus real es-
tate to states, political subdivisions, and munici-
palities for use as public parks, recreational areas,
or historic monument sites.

I. In the case of park and recreational areas,
the price would be equal to fifty per cent of the
fair value of the property. _

2. In the case of historic monuments, the trans-
fer would be made without monetary considera-
tion.

Since the House adopted a number of amend-
ments to the Senate-passed bill, the measure will
not,go to the President until after agreement is
reached by both branches of Congress on these
details.

From Stockholm

MRS. STINA VVRETLAND-LARSSON, Superintend-

ent of Playgrounds, Stockholm, Sweden,
recently paid a visit to the National Recreation
Association. Mrs. Wretland-Larrson is touring
this country for the purpose of becoming better
acquainted with recreation methods and projects
in the United States. The National Recreation
Association suggested places which she might be
interested in visiting, and assured her of the hos-
pitality of any and all local recreation departments.
of their willingness to show her around and to
give her every possible help.

133

 

  
         
     
       
     
  

Famous Slugger Year Book . . .

It’s packed with facts and statistics, stories
and pictures of 1947 baseball. Minor leagues
as well as the majors, are covered in this
interesting and accurate resume of the ’47
season. Your team members will enjoy
reading it from cover-to—cover . . . and then
save it for a dependable reference book for
batting averages, home run records, world
series plays and other interesting facts from
baseball seasons of the past.

  
   
     
   
   
   
 
    
 
    
 

Softball Rule Book . . .

Contains complete 1948 softball rules, scor-
ing rules, pictures of the 1947 champs and
other interesting and valuable information.

Shows official 1947 World’s Softball Champ
elimination brackets for men and women.
Gives helpful hints on hitting; explains lay-
ing out of softball diamond, equipment, etc.
Every softballer should have one.

The makers of Louisville Slugger Bats will
send you free copies of these ever-pepular
annuals for distribution to your team mem-
bers. Simply state how many of each you re-

quire. Address: Dept. R, Hillerich & Bradsby
Co., Louisville 2, Ky.

 

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY, INC., LOUISVILLE, KY.

134 RECREATION

Recent Conference

HE NEW YORK State Recreation Conference

was held in Niagara Falls, New York, April
29 to May I, under the auspices of the National
Recreation Association - C. E. Brewer, Field Rep—
resentative, and the New York State Public Rec-
reation Society - C. E. Waite, White Plains, New
York, President.

The New York State Public Recreation Society
is a professional society with a membership of
persons employed as full-time recreation person—
nel. One hundred and nine persons were regis-
tered at the conference, with eighty-eight attending
the conference banquet, and eighty-nine the dinner
and annual meeting of the New York Society.

Meetings were conducted on a round-table basis,
the subjects for four such meetings being: Prob-
lems on Administration; on Personnel; on Main-
tenance and Construction; and on Activities and
Public Relations. A feature of the round-tables
which proved effective and rewarding was the
presentation, by the discussion leaders, of five-
minute prepared papers on some special problem
common to all. Each of these was followed by dis—
cussion from the Hoor. Another good feature of
the conference was the section meetings of cities
according to size of population as: villages under
10,000 population; cities from 10,000—25,000 pop-
ulation; cities from 25,000-70,000 pOpulation;
cities over 70,060 population.

junior Tennis Championships

K. Mark Cowen

LOWERS MAY BLOOM in the spring, but the

National Public Parks and Playgrounds

Tennis Association will do its planting this sum-
mer.

Derived from hardy stock—the National Public
Parks Tennis Championships—the young sprout
will inherit the title of First Annual Junior Na—
tional Public Parks Tennis Championships.

\Vith the sanction to stage the 22nd Annual
National Public Parks 'Tennis Championships in
Los Angeles from August 8 to I 5, the Los Angeles
Department of Recreation and Parks formulated
the idea of planting the junior tournament in the
same field and 'reaping a double harvest.

In all respects, but one, the junior tournament
will be the same as the senior event. National
titles will be at stake in men’s singles and doubles,
women’s singles and doubles and mixed doubles—
but in the junior field the men and women may
not be more than eighteen years of age.

Why nurture such a junior tournament? Why,
for that matter, stage any tournament for the
Public Parks’ players?

The advantages offered by the game of tennis
itself best serve to answer these questions. Tennis
offers one of the finest means of healthful recrea—
tion and physical fitness, and the game serves to
advance the high standards of amateurism, fair
play and sportsmanship.

Recognizing the fact that public parks and rec—
reation departments were supplying many of the
tennis facilities throughout the nation, the United
States Lawn Tennis Association in 1917 created

JUNE 1948

a division called the National Municipal Recrea-
tion Federation which, ten years later, sought and
obtained, as an affiliate of the U.S.L.T.A., auton-
omy under the name of National Public Parks and
Playground Tennis Association.

The objectives of this group, as suggested in
its, constitution, are to foster, promote and extend
public tennis programs throughout the United
States, to develop rules and policies for such pro—
grams, to bring together like organized tennis
bodies and to organize and conduct tournaments
for the furtherance of these objectives, especially
the National Public Parks Championships.

The fine contribution public tennis makes to
recreation programs, and the great impetus to local
programs provided by the end competition of a
national tournament, lend assurance that enthu—
siasm is fostered for the National Public Parks
tournament.

Because of the addition of the Junior Cham—
pionships to the National Public Parks Tourna—
ment this summer, the benefits of the whole pro-
gram will be materially increased. More players
competing in a diversified program will create
more interest. More interest in the event will
attract more players. That is why the Los An—
geles Department of Recreation and Parks is now
preparing to sweep up broken records, August 8th
to I 5th, during the 22nd Annual Senior Cham—
pionships and the First Annual Junior Champion—
ships. The success here should go a long way
toward encouraging more cities to join the Na—
tional Public Parks and Playgrounds Association.

135

 basketball

' backstops
to fit YOUR need

  

\l

Whatever your individual basketball
backstop installation problem, Porter
has the answer. You see, Porter has been
official purveyor of basketball backstop
equipment to the nation’s schools, uni-
versities and clubs for years. That’s wh
so many coaches, school superinten -
ents and others who buy and specify
backstops will readil say, "Yes, Porter
is headquarters for basletball backstops.”
And Porter’s engineering service is
yours for the asking . . . to recommend,
without charge or obligation, the eth-
cient, economical way to install basket-
ball backstops in your gymnasium or
stadium . . . But don’t wait until the last
moment—until you are ready to use the
court! Plan ahead—allow sufiicient time
for shipping and installation. Write—
now—describing your problem.

FAN-SHAPED BANKS—Porter can ship

immediately famous Porter all-steel fan-
shaped basketball banks.

  

  
   

   

Model 1215 halcm III- Model 218-8! ls suspended

Hm! I 212-2 II ll-hraced
. a stallatlIrn will: extenslnn and braced ta halcnny

type III simpla deslgn

Hndel 2218 sznz-IIII Is
braced tn halcm III' 1wall

 

A neat, rigid Porter installation, meeting a condition
that calls for extended wall bracing. Porter back-

' it
stops not only perform well, but look well. Ergiiliztzuzgtmnflbnna." -  Q '

/

 

THE 1. E. ' CORPORATION
OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

Re9.U.S-Pat.0f¥, STRUCTURE

 

136 RECREATION

BLOCK PARTIES

Charles J. Setzer

ESPITE A WEALTH of recreation agencies, fa-
D cilities, and programs in a city, I believe that
there is a definite community need for the block
party. This sort of party provides an opportunity
for the residents of a city block to become ac-
quainted. It is a sad, but frequently true, com-
mentary on city life that one seldom gets to know
the family across the street or even the family
next door.

The great variety of interests that claim one’s
attention in a large metropolis, the crowded con-
ditions, and the fast tempo of living, all contribute
to the existence of a situation wherein one’s next
door neighbor is often likely to remain a stranger.
The joy of good fellowship, of being able to greet
each one of your neighbors as you pass him on the
street, and of developing lasting friendships with
those' who live nearby, are things that the average
city dweller seldom experiences.

The block party is an activity that is not only an
enjoyable form of neighborhood recreation, but
one which also provides a vehicle for realization
of one of the aims of the recreation movement—
family recreation. The whole family, from the
youngest to the oldest, takes part in a block party.
I believe that some members of a family group
only begin to really know each other when they

 

Don't buy until you see our free, illustrated catalog. Write Today!

WW

sports equipment co.

1 FOND DU LAC, WISCONSIN k
Atmos: A um “may or ltADERSmP

JUNE 1948

learn to play together or undertake a joint project.

The preparations for the party—of the block
itself, the house decorations, the pennants and
banners, and the frequently original lighting
schemes—provide a truly creative experience for
participants. I have seen children and adults spend
a whole day together, decorating the front of their
home or stringing pennants from one telephone
pole to another. It reminds me of the quilting
bees or the husking bees that played such a big
role in the social life of the vigorous Colonial
period of our early history. To work together,
both sexes and all ages, in a cooperative and crea—
tive venture is one of the most satisfying experi-
ences possible. '1- ~

We have just held our second annual block
party in Richmond Hill, New York City. The
first such party, held last year as a “welcome
home” affair for the servicemen of the block, was
such a success that the neighbors decided to have
another party this year. From all indications it
promises to become an annual fete.

The financing of the party was simple enough;
each house contributed two dollars to the general
fund which was turned over to a block committee.
The fund, sixty dollars in all, was used to pur-
chase the decorations, to provide candy and ice—
cream for the youngsters, and to rent a public
address system for the occasion.

The first event of the evening was a kiddie
parade; the youngsters were dressed in old clothes
that were much too big for them. At its conclu-
sion, about dusk, the lighting system was turned
on in all its Christmas-like glory. Popular dance
music records, played over the rented public ad-
dress system, started the dancing that lasted for
the remainder of the evening. Each family served
their own refreshments on a table in front of their
home or in the backyard, and then welcomed
neighbors or went on to visit others on the block.

I conversed on friendly terms with an elderly
gentleman whom I had never met before, and
found that we shared a common interest in psy-
chology. I saw people dancing together who had
never even spoken to each other previously. Hid-
den talent was revealed when several individuals
decided to supplement the “canned” music with a
few songs of their own, and a demonstration of
Irish folk dances proved to be one of the high—
lights of the evening.

As simple as was the organization, financing and
planning for this block party, it provided an ex-
perience for many that will be the basis for more
hours of good fellowship and happy community
living in the years to come.

137

138

_ _____ ..
-:~.'.~T==-::.:-:.:::- was;

—‘w—

MR. MICAWBER’S financial advice to
young David Copperfield is justly
famous.

Translated into United States currency,
it runs something like this:

“Annual income, two thousand dollars;
annual expenditure, nineteen hundred
and ninety-nine dollars; result, happi-
ness. Annual income, two thousand dol-
lars; annual expenditure, two thousand
and one dollars; result, misery.”

But Mr. Micawber was only half-right!

Simply_not spending more than you make
isn’t enough. Every family must have a
cushion of savings to fall back on. . .and
to provide for their future security.

U. S. Savings Bonds offer one of the best
ways imaginable to build savings.

..--_q

 

Two convenient, automatic plans make
the systematic purchase of Savings Bonds
both sure and trouble-free:

I. If you work for wages or salary, join
Payroll Savings—the only installment-buy-

ing plan.

2. If you’re in business, or a farmer, or
in a profession, and the Payroll Savings
Plan is not available to you, then sign up
at your bank for the Bond-A-Month Plan.

Each helps you build a nest egg of abso-
lutely safe, 100% government-backed U. S.
Savings Bonds. And these bonds make more
money for you while you save. For after
only ten years, they pay you back $400
for every $300 you put in them.

Join the Plan you’re eligible for today!
As Mr. Micawber would say: “Result,

security! ’ ’

AUTOMATIC SAVING IS SURE SAVING "U.S. SAVINGS BONDS

 

 

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the
Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

SECURITY

W

RECREATION

Look to Your Forests!

“SMOKEY, THE Fire Preventin’ Bear” has been
called upon once again to carry an urgent
message to all of us. This year the chief protag-
onist of the Forest Fire Prevention Campaign ap-
pears in a prayerful mood, begging forest visitors
to exercise special caution in helping to prevent

fire in the woods.
In spite of the fact that forest, woods and range

tires are on the decrease—172,000 last year as
compared with an average of 210,000 per year be-
fore the war—'they are still a major national prob-
lem. In 1947 the trees of saw-timber size burned
were enough to build 86,000 five-room homes ; the
pole-size trees enough to provide a twelve-month
s'Upply of newsprint (approximately three and
one—quarter million tons) for every newspaper in
the United States. Recreation has also been af-
fected, for often in the past it has been necessary
to cut off the use of national forests and parks for
hikes, picnics, camping and other summer fun
because of fires and dry spells.

In connection with the opening of the sixth an-
nual nationwide Forest Fire Prevention .Cam-
paign, Secretary of Agriculture Clinton P. Ander-
son stated that the importance of forest fire pre-
vention “could not be overemphasized in our day
when the dependence of mankind on ample and
productive natural resources is reiiected in every
page of current history. The record shows that
nations rise as their natural resources are devel-
oped and wane if these are exhausted through un-
wise and wasteful use. . . . Certainly each one of
us can be sure that he does not contribute to start-
ing forest fires through a lighted match dropped
in the woods, a neglected campfire or other in-
excusable carelessness.”

TENNIS NETS

ALL SPORT NETS

The reliable headquarters
for ALL NETS is

W. A. AUGUR, Inc.
New York 7, N. Y.

35 Fulton Street

lUNE 1948

 

   

New! PERPETUAL CALENDAR

_.-v Beautiful Sun-Ray
- Golfing figure
on fluted walnut
base. Size 5%”
high. Suitable en-
graving space on
easily operated
perpetual calen-
dar. Can be fur-
nished with any
athletic figure.
No. (32144 Each,
 M  $5.00 (no tax)

Write for our General C talog of Athletic Medals 6. Trophies

' EDWIN W. LANE CO. Dept-R

32 W. RANDOLPH ST.. CHICAGO 1. ILLINOIS

       
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
 

       

 

     
     

    

The Problem of Leisure

"The use of leisure is a highly individualistic
problem. It cannot be solved by anything but in-
dependent thought and fair-minded investigation
of its possibilities. It is an all-important problem,
for upon its happy solution depends the quality of
life necessary for the development of a personality
capable of serving, cooperating with and contrib-
uting to humanity, which is the fruit of living
wisely.”——Austin Fox Riggs.

 

 

'In every field of sport in Profes-
sional, Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recueation.
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall'-
rnarln of quality and unvarying
performance.

IEIIII r. ln nan... K.“
0‘" I lamp-ah! aqua-Ine-
III-"Ind II “I lion-

cl nun-cl .I'

(INCENNAII I4, OHIO. u. s. A

 

139

 .45; |

ANOTHER
WILSON “HONOR

In recognition of its high standing in American
sports, Wilson Athletic Equipment has been desig-
nated by the United States Olympic Committee as the

OFFICIAL EQUIPMENT

for the U. 8. teams participating in the

OLYMPIC GAMES
at'London, England, 1948

A


This appointment is further confirmation of your
good judgment when you choose sports equipment
‘bearing the name Wilson. Specify Wilson and know
you are getting the finest.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.

-' Chicago, New York and other leading cities
(A WILSON a co.. mc. SUBSIDIARY)

THE LAST WORD IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

140

 

RECREATION

Books Received

 

Bat Boy of the Giants, by Garth Garreau. The VVest—
minster Press, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $2.00.

Birds of Prey, by Leon Augustus Hausman. Rutgers
University Press, New Brunswick, New Jersey.

$3.75.

Camping and the Future, by Ramona Backus, Harvie
J. Boorman, and Hedley S. Dimock. Assoc1ation

Press, New York. $1.50.

Complete Party Book, The, by Alexander Van Rens—

selaer. Sheridan House, Publishers, New York.

$3.50.
Decade of Group Work, The, edited by Charles E.
Hendry. Association Press, New York. $2.50.

Fix It, Please, by Lucy Sprague Mitchell. Simon and
Schuster, Incorporated, New York. $.25.

Isles of Rhythm, by Earl Leaf. A. S. Barnes and
Company, Incorporated, New York. $5.00.

Jackie Robinson, My Own Story. Greenberg, Pub-
lisher, New York. Paper edition $1.00; cloth $2.00.

Mountain Tamer, by Arthur D. Stapp. William Mor—
row and Company, Incorporated, New York.

$2.50.

Noises and Mr. Flibberty-Jib, by Gertrude Crampton.
Simon and Schuster, Incorporated, New York.

$.25.

Oflicial Lacrosse Guide, 1948. A. S. Barnes and Com—
pany, Incorporated, New York. $.50.

OHicial Track and Field Guide, 1948. A. S. Barnes
and Company, Incorporated, New York. $.50.

Authors in This Issue

SUSAN LEE—Third Vice President and Secre-
tary of the Board, National Recreation Associa-
tion. Article on page 100.

JOHN J. CONSIDINEMGeneral Superintendent
of Recreation, Detroit, Michigan. Page 105.

BARBARA CARRELL—VVriter for the N etc York
Herald Tribune. Article on page III.

W'ILLARD C. SUTHERLAND—Recreation Person-
nel Service, National Recreation Association.

’Article on page 114.

S. THEODORE W OALmActive in camping circles,
Mr. W'oal is author of constructive articles on
camping such as that on page 117.

ELDON UNDERWOOD #- Recreation Division,
Boys’ Department, Kingdom House Settlement,
St. Louis, Missouri. Article on page 118.

FRANK H. GERImDirector, Bellingham Play—
Eelds, Bellingham, Washington. Page 123.

R. T. MCSPADDEN———Phillip3 Petroleum Com-
pany, Borger, Texas. Article on page 127.

K. MARK C0\VAN~——-—President, National Public
Parks "and Playgrounds Tennis Association, as
reported in an interview by Bion Abbott, L03
Angeles Times Sports Editor. Page I35.

* -

A lively, responsive ball develops skillful players —adds to the thrills of the game; r r r The con-
struction of WEAVER Softball and Playball assures lively—responsive action. r r rThe WEAVER
Softball has a long fabric kapok center, is double yar'n wound, with tough cover realistic in
appearance and processed to give soft. velvety feel. r r vThe WEAVER Playball is the only
scholastic playball made, which is perfectly round. It contains 65% crude rubber with patented
fool-.proof valve. Both "BEST by TEST" reasons for specifying WEAVER.

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

AMERICA'S FOREMOST ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

WEAVER WINTARK SALES co.    '

JUNE 1948

 

141

      

/ r9
.«k/Ey y
-" HE FOLK DANCE LIBRARY
' by ANNE SCHLEY DUGGAN, Director
' and
JEANETTE SCHLOTTMANN, ABBIE RUTLEDGE
Department of Health,

Physical Education and Recreation
Texas State College for Women

/  

         
 

   

Ficve Beautiful Volumes of Exciting Folk Dance Literature!

N 0 other folk dance books have captured so skillfully the joyous spirit and stirring
‘ movement of the folk dance—nor set down in such clear, easy style the steps and

music that go with each dance.

The following discussion of THE FOLK DANCE LIBRARY will show you how
indispensable these new books will be to YOU! THE TEACHING OF FOLK DANCE

sets the tempo——and the remaining four volumes develop its theme into a complete
unit of essential and illustrative material.

 

In THE TEACHING OF FOLK DANCE you will find: the cultural, social, neuromuscular values stated in the form of
general objectives with respect to knowledges to be acquired, skills to be mastered, attitudes and appreciations to be developed

——creative values approach to teaching—units encompassing folk dances of a specific country, a race or a period of civilization
-—charts with knowledge and skill objectives—objective examinations—a sample rating scale—individual and group grading

systems—procedures for the production of folk festivals and folk dance parties.
Each of the remaining four volumes follows a similar pattern: an excellent treatment of the geographical, historical, and

sociological background of the seven regions—a survey of charac- ORDER FORM
teristic folk dances, folk costumes and folk festivals—an explana- . . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

tion of dance terms, counting, music, diagrams, positions, and , A S B _
formations. In these four volumes eighty-three folk dances are 1 ' ' ARNES AM) COMPANY, DEPT' E
presented in detail with specific directions, clear analysis of steps, ‘ 67 West 44th Street, New York 13a N- Y-

diagrams of the floor and step patterns, and piano accompaniment : Send me THE FOLK D ANCE LIBRARY at the me.
for each dance. i publication price of $12.00 (volumes not sold sepa-

THE FOLK DANCE LIBRARY may be purchased at a spe- ‘ TatelYl-
. cial pre-publication price of $12.00. Clip the coupon and mail at
once. Take advantage of this 20% disconnt. Good only until

I enclose 3 ................................  , :

Please bill me ............................ ..

‘A

October 1. : - '
_ I Name ..................................................................................... .. '

8%»"x11" Cloth Illustrated The Set $15.00 Publication October « l
’ « Address._ ................................................................................ .. .

A. S. BARNES AND COMPANY : City .......................................................... ..State ................... 

67 West 44th Street Ngw York 18, N. Y. This offer good until October 1. .

142 RECREATION

 

Administration of the Modern Camp

Hedley S. Dimock. Association Press, New York.

$4.00.
IACCORDING TO Louis H. Blumenthal, “Camping

only recently has become conscious of the vital
role administration can play in the development
of a socially productive camp community, and only
lately has it become aware of administration as a
distinctive camp discipline, with an underlying
philosophy, guiding principles, and technical proc-
esses of its own. In addition, there has been grow-
ing recognition of the fact that camp administra-
tion is inseparably woven into the very fabric of
camp life—into camp aims, programs, and func—
:ioning of staff and campers.”

Hedley S. Dimock has gathered together up-to—
:he-minute material written. by authorities in this
mportant field and presented it in a book of wide
icope and practical topics to be published this
month. As Carol Gulick Hulbert says in her fore-
frord: “The American Camping Association has
aken an active and interested part in the develop—
ment of good standards for camping . . . To put
hese standards into effect, hundreds of camps
must be educated to the necessity of good admin-
stration as well as of good program and good
eadership. Such a book as this is a step along our
hosen path . . .”

A few of the long list of subjects covered are:
r“he Functions and Principles of Camp, by Louis
I. Blumenthal; Organization of the Camp, by
Iarvie J. Boorman ; Staf}t Qualifications and Or-
anieation, by E. DeAlton Partridge; Community
lspects of Camp Planning, by Roy Sorenson;
lrganieation and Administration of Camp Pro—
mm, by Harvie  Boorman. '

Hobbies

RECREATION PEOPLE SHOULD perhaps be familiar
with the Harper Hobby Series in which each

.INE 1948

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

'*—~

book is a complete, step-by—step, illustrated treat—
ment of its subject. Titles: Complete Introduction
to Photography; Creating Jewelry—for Fun and
Profit; Freehand Drawing Self—Taught; Handi-
crafts as a Hobby; Hiking, Camping and 1M oun-
taineering; Hobbies for Everybody; Modern Magic
.Mannal; Painting as a Hobby; Photography as a
Hobby; Pottery; Sketching as a Hobby; l/Vood-
Carving as a Hobby; Woodworking as a H obby..
For catalogue: Harper and Brothers, 49 East 3 3rd
Street, New York 16.

Tall Baseball Stories

As told by Wee Willie Little to Jiggs Amarant.
Association Press, New York. $1.50.

IF YOU LIKE tall stories——-—whether they concern

the fish that got away or Paul Bunyan——-y0u
will certainly chalk up a home run for this collec-
tion of twenty fantastic, whimsical “whoppers” of
America's national sport. You don’t have to be an
ardent baseball rooter to chuckle over the closest
game on record—none sixteenth to nothing; the
cross-eyed umpire who reversed the base running;
how the Foote twins—~Lefty and Righty—mixed
up themselves and everybody else; and other
amazing anecdotes. Each story is a “live-base hit.”

Outdoors with the Camera

Paul Grabbe, in collaboration with Joseph E.
Sherman. Revised edition. Harper and Broth-
ers, New York. $3.00.

CAMERA FANS SHOULD be delighted with this
book of valuable suggestions which records,
play by play, the process of learning to take good

pictures and the solving of everyday camera prob-

lems. Common experiences in picture taking are
illustrated with “right and wrong” snapshots and
brief explanatory captions. Charts and. diagrams

are designed for quick reference.

143

Young People’s Corner

Rue Plays the Game

Josephine Blackstock. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New
York. $2.50.
“EARN TO BE a play director? Pay out good
money to learn recreation in college? Stuff
and nonsense!” This was the opinion of eighteen-
year-old Rue’s Aunt Laura. But Rue persevered
and the reader goes off with her to a modern,
lively college where she passes through the phases
of training necessary for the fascinating career she
has chosen. A warm, real-life story for girls and
their mothers, by one who has done outstanding
work in the recreation held.

The Golden Books

FOUR NEW TITLES have been added to Simon &

Schuster’s colorful and attractively illustrated
Golden Book Series for younger children. 1% ar-
garet Wise Brown’s Wonderful Story Book, $1.50,
is made up of amusing stories, and poems, mostly
about animals, such as “Said a Fish to a Fish,”
“The Tickly Spider,” “The Shy Little Horse,”
and so on. The Golden Book of Poetry, $1.50, is
a truly outstanding collection of 100 favorites of
childhood. Fix It Please, by Lucy Sprague Mitch-
ell, and Noises and Mr. Flibberty-Jib, by Gertrude
Crampton are two new little Golden Books, color-
fully illustrated, at twenty-five cents each.

 

 

thcers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third ViceePresident and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAU CIIER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRs. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E .MILLIKEN, Augusta Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, J R., New York, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New YOrk, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

144

    

  

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER,

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from Special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a
good shoe.

     
   
     
    

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

    
       
       
         
  
   
 
 

 

 

    

First Chain
for

£very Sport"

Available
Thru Leading;-
Athletic Good:
Distributors

l
l
t

  

' M! I

5» Hr: tnvtsr I” raw #1510 ‘ l

{foallg‘p‘af
it"—  MANU'ACIUIIHG COMPANY I 51'. {OBIS 3

  

RECREATIOB: 

  

Recreation Training Institutes

June and July

Pullman, Washington

HELEN DAUNCEY
June 21-July 2

Social Recreation

Lexington, Kentucky

TH EHLERS
RU June 7-11

Social Recreation

Dr. Helen G. Smith, The State College of
Washington

Miss Anna Pherigo, Executive Director, Board
of Park Directors

Westchester County, New York E. Dana Caulkins, Superintendent of Recreation,

June 21-25

Chester, Pennsylvania
June 28-July 2

County Building, White Plains, New York

R. M. Schultz, Recreation Director

Shepherdstown, West Virginia Oliver Ikenberry, President, Shepherd College

July 6-9

Peoria, Illinois

ANNE LIVINGSTON
June 7-11

Social Recreation

Lansing, Michigan
June 17-18

Pittstield, Massachusetts
June 21-25

i New Britain, Connecticut
‘ June 28-30

Steubenville, Ohio

i FRANK STAPLES
June 7-11

Arts and Crafts

Hammond, Indiana
' June 14-18

Amsterdam, New York
1 ‘ June 21-23

I Glens Falls, New York
June25

Rome, New York
June 28-July 9

Baltimore, Maryland
July 19-23

ALICE VAN LANDINGHAM Watertown, New York
Social Recreation June 23'25

Rochester, New York
June 28-July 2

GRACE WALKER r Birmingham, Alabama
n Creative Recreation June 1448
" Canton, Massachusetts
July 5-9

Frank Bowker, Acting Director of Recreation
Herbert Kipke, Recreation Director, Board of
Park Commissioners

Mrs. Corinne Conte, Supervisor of Girls, Park
Comm15310n

Joseph Hergstrom, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion

Frank Y. Linton, Superintendent of Recreation
R. Wayne Cunningham, Superintendent of Rec-
reation

Alex H. Isabel, Supervisor of Recreation
D. L. Reardon, Superintendent of Recreation
William Keating, Director of Recreation

Thomas G. Ferguson, Supervisor of Health and
Physical Education, State Department of Edu-
cation

Miss Elinor Duggan, Assistant Superintendent
of Recreation

0. W. Kuolt, Council of Social Agencies, 70
North Water Street

N. C. Ward, Manager, Smithfield Court, 150-8th
Avenue, North

Miss Josephine Crawford, 808 West Street

“ HE - healing fragrance of the

woods; the beauties of lake and

of coastline; the open air; the clean

blue skies—these belong to all people,

and the. right to enjoy them is the her-
itage of every child.”

From Camping for Crippled Children.

 

