scams

     
 
     
 

Easter Dawns Over
a Modern World

March I948
Price 35 Cenfs

C o nrwtme n ts r

I .

March 1948,

What First, by Howard Brancher . . . . . . 553
As Spring Returns, -: I.

by Muriel W. Edgerton. . . .‘ . . . .  . . . 555 .

Summer Camping Values,

by Bernard J. 0351...... .    . . . ., 556

' -  T wolWay'rStreet, by Robert Hutchings 559':

Storytelling, by Virginia Musselman. . . 561

Joint Conference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564

You Meet Such Interesting Facts . . . . . . 565

Gustavus Town Kirby Honored . . . . . . . 567

The Egg and You . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569

Young Folks Make History . . . . . . . . . . . 571

They’re Nuts! by Nathan L. Mallison . . . 572

Recreation Forces Urged to Aid Citizens
Food Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: Ency-
clopaedia Britannica Press for the illustration on
page 554; Mickey Stroecker, Detroit News, for boy
making bed photo, page 557; Gainesville, Florida,
Recreation Department, 568; U.S.D.A. Extension
Service, 571; Akron Beacon Journal, 575; Ameri-
can Red Cross, Southeastern Pennsylvania Chapter,

for upper left corner, 576; Wide World Photos,
Inc. for girls rope skipping, 576; Staber W. Reese,
Wisconsin Conservation Department for bear and
birds, 576-77; Federal Works Agency, Washington,
D. C. for two boys rocking, 577; Chicago Board of
Education for boys rollerskating, 577.

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreati
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at-315 Fourth Avenue, New Y
10. N. Y.; is on nle in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as seco
class matter June 12, 1929, at the Post Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1. 1924.

Copyright 1948. by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORi‘YdONE. NUMBER TWELVE

~ RecreationaA Basic Human Need (Rec-

'Neiil'*Recreation'-Congress. -.-.- .  .  . . 5

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 5
.Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
New Publications . j . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

  
  
 
     
     
    
  
    
    
  
  
  
  

Woman of the Year. . e . . . . . . . .  . . . . 57
Spring Is Just Around the Corner. . . . . 57

reation Commission Report, National
Conference onlsocial Welfare Needs) 57

Elmer G. Vordenberg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 u‘

 
 
 

State Recreation News .Notes . . . . . . . . . 5
More Play Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Index to Volume XLI, RECREATION
Magazine . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 ‘

Regular Features
World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . . 5

Recreation Training Institutes . . . . . . . . 5

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

I
I

‘7 r.

The Postman Brings (This feature will

be resumed in April.)

Recreation ma

 

March 1948

Wh a t “The most important task confronting the United
States Atomic Energy Commission is to keep the
country’s best scientific and managerial brains at

FSt work on atomic development.” .
David E. Lilienthal.

HE GREAT TASK of the National Recreation Associa-
Ttion is no different. Recreation—leisure time—
abundant living activities and programs have one of the.
greatest contributions to make to this generation. :

The contribution can affect practically every other 3 «
field—religion, industry, labor, education, health, local
and world government.

Strength, joy, growth for mankind depend immeasur-
ably on the kind of brains and quality of leadership
provided by the community for leisure.

With scientific'knowledge of things, with our power
with atomic energy, with jet propulsion, we neglect at
our peril that which is at the center of man’s own inner
nature.

Man himself wants to grow, to be important, to be
strong, to be joyous, when he is free just to be himself.

Billions for more knowledge of things, for science—
yes. But millions also for cooperative societies and
foundations of the type of the National Recreation
Association, that work on the problem of the strength
and happiness of the man himself, who to us, is after
all, central to all this world. '

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

553

 

 

554 RECREATION

As Spring Returns

Across the frozen fields warm breezes blow;
The sleeping woods lift green arms to the sky,
And sugar-maple sap begins to flow.

, A thousand streams rush swollen down the hills;
The swallows and the robins northward fly

With promises of spring and daHodils.

In happy homes the children run to see

The bright-hued eggs left by a rabbit’s hand
In blithe‘defiance of biology.

And over all the world their elders pray
For peace and brotherhood in every land,

Their hope renewed afresh this Easter Day.
Muriel W. Edgerton

MARCH 1948 555

 

i

Summer Camping Ualues

Digest of a talk given at the Organizational

Camping Panel, at the New York State Confer-
ence of Social Work in Buffalo, November 1947.

Q

My TOUR 0F duty in the Army prompted the
camping committee to suggest a mention of

any instances wherein summer camping experi—
ence came to the surface during my Army life
and proved of value. While I did not consciously
look for such details or engage in any survey that
would permit some statistics, there are certain ob—
servations which I can pass along for you to decide
their value.

My Opinion is that unquestionably those exposed
to summer camping found such background de—
cidedly of value. Observing the scene at a recep-
tion center, it would appear that few draftees or
enlistees had been to summer camps or had ab—
sorbed any of the important teachings such camps
furnish. ‘ Men wander about aimlessly, except
where definite orders have been given for a partic—
ular job to be -done. Often new soldiers seem
anxious for an order to be given so that they can
rush to obey—not from fear of authority but
rather from a desire to be doing something. Men
seek the intimacy of one other person rather than
the group in order to discuss their problems, their
fears and, yes, their loneliness; for not knowing
how to mingle with a group, they are very much
alone in the midst of many. Policing camp ground,
making beds, KP duty, fmd the men in need of
assistance on how to proceed. In the evening the
lights and noise of the recreation hall attract them,
and they wander in to stand and watch the activ-
ities. At times some seem to be waiting to be
asked to join or participate. Often they are too
bashful to perform in front of strangers and, con—

sequently, refuse to enter these activities even
when asked.

The conclusion to be drawn from this picture
is, I am sure, obvious to all: “There is no substi—

’ The new soldier, who has
had a few summers at camp as a boy, possesses a

tute for experience.’

556

Bernard J. O’Shea

great advantage. Large groups of strangers in
close association hold no fears for this former
camper; that situation he met in the first few days
of summer camp. Sleeping in a tent or dormitory—
like building is familiar—he knows how a bed
should be made, where to put his clothing, how to
make his existence in small confines pleasant and
comfortable. The mess—kit is not an enigma but
rather something he desires and needs if he is to
eat properly at the open field kitchen. The recrea—
tion hall draws him not as an observer but as an
eager participant. In fact, the chap with summer
camping experience shortly finds himself to be
somewhat of an unofficial leader in teaching others
how to do the many little things that are part of
any camping routine. Camping, which is living
together for twenty—four hours a day, seven days
a week, is a unique group work activity, and there
is no substitute that can produce similar important
results or values. No books can teach its lessons;
no Army regulation or manual can effectively
order it.

In stressing the values of summer camping, it
seems appropriate at this time to mention briefly
the possibility of a universal military training
program in this country. There is no doubt that
summer camps can make a contribution in assist—
ing future trainees to adjust themselves adequately
to the type of life they may be required to undergo
at an early age. I am not suggesting or advocating
any specific program at this time. Certainly I
would not contemplate operating a summer camp
along military lines. In fact, it is my opinion that
summer camps! should consistently avoid rigid
military procedures whenever possible. But since
the adjustment values are so important for every—
one, particularly for those who may in later years
engage in training activities at military camps,
camp directors should be conscious of such possi—
bilities when planning a camp program.

RECREATION -

To confirm this adjustment value to be gained
from summer camping, I would like to relate what
has been told to me by doctors at two neuro—
psychiatric institutions under the Veterans Admin-
istration. It was the belief of those doctors that
one of the basic causes of neuro-psychosis among
their patients was their inability to adjust ade—
quately to the radical change to military life. Had
rapid adjustment been accomplished, it seemed
conceivable to these psychiatrists that future expe-
riences might not have taken the toll they did.
Now I trust you will not leap to the conclusion
that I advocate summer camping as a preventative
or antidote for neuro-psychosis. However, if ad—
equate adjustment is such an important factor to
the existence of the new soldier, I am sure you

will agree that summer camping experience could '

- be a very positive aid to those who may later be
compelled to undergo‘ military training.
Touching further on this medical aspect, an

analysis of the physical examinations given to newly
inducted men clearly showed that an astounding
number were not in satisfactory physical condition.
I am not referring to rejections for physical dis-
abilities but rather to'tests and medical reports
which established that many of the newly inducted
soldiers were unable to cope physically with early
vigorous training programs. There is no doubt
that school systems and, to some extent, summer
camps can contribute much to the improvement of
the physical condition of our youth. In fact, you
may recall that, in planning your summer camp
programs, additional emphasis was recommended
on the more vigorous exercises aimed at raising
the physical standards of your campers. Knowing

 

Camping, which is living together twenty-four hours
a day, is a unique group experience. No substitute,
nor book, can produce similar results or values.

MARCH 1948

camp directors, 1 am certain you cpoperated with
this suggestion. I-onvever, I have recently:noticed
signs indicating a forgetfulness of some signal im-
perfections that war conditions uncovered. My
reference to a physical conditioning program for
summer camps is, therefore, in the nature of a re-
minder to camp directors not to join the ranks of
those who have become negligent.

The many steps taken by the Army (duplicated,
I am sure, in the Navy and Marine Corps) in the
recreational field indicate the tremendous value
discovered in recreation by the military authorities.
At the outset, the Army organized a recreational
division, the Special Services Division, which had
charge of purchasing recreation equipment, dis-
seminating material, information, supervision and
advice on programs and the operating of a recrea-
tional school for oflicers and enlisted men. (Re-
cently there has been a rumor from a reliable
source that the Special Services Division may
secure corps status, i.e., as an organization it
will be on the same plane as Quartermaster Corps,
Signal Corps, Medical Corps, etc.) Overseas, the
Army established rest area camps and found them
most effective. Then there were forty Special Ser-
vices Companies" complete with portable recrea-
tional equipment and trained recreational flicers
and enlisted men to service isolated units with
recreational programs. Here in this country, in
addition to excellent recreational programs in
Army camps, Redistribution Centers were estab-
lished strategically in different parts of the coun-
try where soldiers, who had spent considerable
time overseas, were permitted to stay and relax.
These stations were literally vacation playgrounds
or resorts offering practically every recreational

 

The camper learns baffling details of how a bed'
should he made, where to put his clothing, how to
make existence comfortable in tent or dormitory.

557

opportunity. These programs permitted addi-
tional millions. to be exposed to leisure time activ—
ities, which fact resulted in a far greater percentage
of our population becoming accustomed to, and
eager for, all forms of recreation.

And where can one find a more desirable form
of recreational group activity than in summer
camping? It is something that all camp directors
should bear in mind in planning and operating
their programs. You will be dealing with a people
more aware of recreation, familiar with its group
work values and the proper standards that should
prevail.

These experiences of so many men and women
in the armed forces have increased tremendously
the search for, and participation in, leisure time
activities. Once exposed to the pleasures of recre-
ation, they develop a thirst for further experiences
of this type that seems to be insatiable. Recrea-
tion has truly grown up, and future planning must
be undertaken with that fact clearly understood.

I have been asked if there was any one particu-
lar factor or experience in my military life that
would aid me in planning and operatingafuture
summer camp programs. Oddly, the outstanding
factor was one that was most apparent to me by
reason of its omission. It was the absence of any

moral or spiritual philosophy in everyday Army
' life. The military leaders and planners will say
there was no time for the diffusion of any such
philosophy—a war was being fought. True, but
living together twenty-four hours a day, seven
days a week, for months that stretched into years,
required something more than just the techniques
of fighting. Just as it was essential to supply the

individual soldier with all the material things re-
quired for complete existence, so also was it nec-
essary to provide him with a'spiritual and moral
leadership. The Chaplains Corps were not enough;
it was impossible for chaplains to reach more than
a small percentage of the men within a post. A
moral or spiritual philosophy should permeate the
Officers Corps so they could pass along basic
moral principles to the enlisted ranks during the
daily routine. A soldier should not have to seek
it; it should be there at all times for him to absorb,
either consciously or unconsciously. As time went
on, this omission became more and more obvious
as a real deficiency; and I have resolved in future
planning of summer camp programs to emphasize,
to a greater degree, basic moral codes rather than
such things as summer vacations just for sports
for sport’s sake or physical improvement. They
are undeniably worthwhile-objectives, but their
value is greatly enhanced when motivated by a
philosophy aimed at reaching the very character
of the camper.

I bid you directors of summer camps to give
some careful consideration to this thought, if you
have not already done so. I am not asking for
a particular spiritual philosophy but rather that
the basic principles of a moral code pervade your
leadership; that you stress to your campers a
reason for their existence other than that which
is materialistic or recreational ; that you specifically.
recognize your position during the summer months
as a foster parent and assume all the obligations
that role implies. Your camp will be a much finer
place, your campers potentially better citizens,
and you yourselves will gain in stature.

 

National Negro Health Week

 

Lunchtime is important for little tots. ‘A balanced
healthful meal should be served regularly every day.

558

Face and hands should be carefully
washed before eating, using own towel.

RECREATION

      

| Robert Hutchings

N DOZENS, AND even hundreds, of United States
I cities, radio pe0p1e and recreation people are
' old and good friends; some of them have been
I working together almost since the days of crystal
sets and headphones. But in other communities
there is no particular c00peration between radio
and recreation even today, and in these places——
according to at least one distinguished radio expert

-; ———neither radio station nor recreation department
is quite doing its full job.

The spokesman for the radio industry thus in-
terested in recreation is Mrs.- Dorothy Lewis, Con-
ductor of Listener Activity of the National Asso—
ciation of Broadcasters, and Vice-President of the
Association of Women Broadcasters. The former
is the organization which last year proposed the
now hotly-debated radio code of ethics. It has
taken leadership in setting up local radio councils,
and not long ago established, as United States
radio policy, that local stations everywhere in 1948
must, in their own interest, devote more study to

1 problems of community service and community
leadership.

During the course of every year, Mrs. Lewis
speaks to hundreds of program directors and sta-
[ tion owners and encourages among them a greater
| interest in, and greater knowledge about, such
local movements as recreation. She thinks, how-

ever, that such interest on the part of radio people
:1 can perform only half the job; that there must be
'. also a corresponding increase in recreation’s

knowledge and interest in radio.

There are three general fields which radio and

I recreation can explore together. The first is how

II, MARCH 1948

.1

 

 

 

Cooperation Between
Radio and Recreation

the radio station can best, within its program pat-
terns, broadcast news about the recreation depart-
ment; its function here is communication and in—
terpretation—just as one of the functions of the
newspaper is communication and interpretation.
The second area is how the radio station can uti-
lize the special skills and talent of a recreation
department to bring its listeners better programs.
And the third is how the recreation department
can obtain leadership and help from radio and
radio people, in the department’s' job of bringing
the public better recreation.

When Mrs. Lewis talks to leaders in her indus—
try, she rehearses for them the plaints about radio
she hears from people outside the business: plaints
about program content, about news dissemination,
about commercials, about the use and misuse of
music, about children’s programs and about nearly
everything else connected with a $196,000,000
business (1946) which has grown up in less than
twenty-five years. When she talks with people
outside the business, she is equally well-prepared
——upon these occasions with the comments and
points of view she hears from radio people about
just such movements as recreation.

Perhaps the greatest problem faced by the har-
ried radio director today, for example, is that of
trying to make his friends and neighbors realize
how many people actually do listen to the radio.
Quoting statistics, he has found, seldom helps——
he can point out over and over again that radio
listeners outnumber telephone users, bathtub own-
ers, automobile users, Republicans and Democrats
combined, and practically every other division of

559

the human race in America which can be classified.
But despite these figures, the chess lover will still
insist that there is an “audience” for chess news;
the president of a service club will declare fer-
vidly that “hundreds” of housebound Rotarians
want to 'hear his Thursday noon luncheon speaker;
while the local recreation director may suggest, in
his turn, an hour’s visit to a handcraft workshop.

There is, of course, an audience for each of
these things, as there is an audience for every
other kind of special interest. By the nature of
radio, however, the program director is barred
from using the recreation man’s great technique of
departmentalizing his activities. He cannot have
one microphone for quiet people who like music,
another for preschool youngsters, a third for
boisterous teen-agers and a fourth for older pe0ple,
and have all four microphones going at once. He
must appeal to one group at a time, he must see to
it that the group potentially is large enough to
justify the appeal, and finally that his finished pro—
gram does not drive the uninterested out of their
living rooms, screaming.

Mrs. Lewis emphasizes this point by saying
that there is no “inside page” for a good radio
station. One cannot, as one New York neWSpaper
does, give chess players a column or so of cozy
chatter about the game—chatter, which on one

day this winter, actually began with this sentence:
“The conclusion was 20, PXP, NXQ; 21, PAN

plus K-NI; 22, R—R8 plus, KxR; now ‘David’
quietly stoops to pick up the stone for the sling
shot with the extremely ‘quiet’ move of 23, P-B7.”

Nor can one, for that. matter, devote an hour’s
broadcast time to the whine of a band saw and the
clatter of a hammer from some handcraft work—
shop in the recreation department.

Yet recreation and radio can get together; the
heart of a good recreation program is pe0ple—
people of all ages, people of all interests, people
enjoying themselves and becoming happier and
better members of their community. This can be
the basis for excellent radio and already is the
basis for much of it. Given a radio station inter-
ested in its community (as good radio stations
must be) and a recreation department ready to
accept help as well as give it, add a little talent
and a little thought, and everyone will be the better
off—the public, most of all.

The first step in radio, which recreation people
should take according to Mrs. Lewis, is to meet
their radio station personnel, preferably through
one of the fifty radio councils now organized in as
many towns and cities. These are associations
composed of local organizations, civic, religious,

560

educational, and radio stations which, among othe
functions, allocate raw radio time to local group
for important projects.

Missionary work among these councils, 0
among individual stations if no council is in exis
tence, can show the radio business what the recrea
tidn department is accomplishing and why it need
help and support. It may also lead to the develop
ment of a program.- Of all the people in one’
community, radio people themselves are the one
best qualified to evaluate program ideas; they ar
also the ones, Mrs. Lewis COI‘ll‘ldCS, who mos
probably are eagerly looking for good ideas. Radi
people, furthermore, should be invited to serve 01
recreation committees.

Although a survey is now in progress, there ar
few central registries for good programs whicl
local recreation departments and radio stations can
adopt ready—made fOr their own use. Lists of good
local programs, however, can be assembled with
the cooperation of a radio station manager. Exist-
ing programs often can be effectively used by the
recreation department. Without specific case his-
tories to go on, Mrs. Lewis is chary even of sug-
gesting radio program ideas, but she imparts no
particular trade secret in saying that music and
children, separately or together, have never yet
failed to attract a radio audience when properly
presented. And if one can add local interest and
local color, she feels, the recipe grows better. It is
important to become familiar with radio techniques 1
—spot announcements, quizzes, drama and so on.

In the meantime, as radio station and recreation
department work Out individual programs or pro— '
gram series together, the latter should continue its
regular fiow of news to the radio news desk. Any
event of general interest sponsored by the depart- '
ment, any department campaign and all news an-I
nouncements should go to the radio station as they ~
now go to the newspapers in most communities;'
in this respect, the radio station is a member of the
local press, with the same functions. This fact was
pointed up with some force last year in the I
Hutchins’ “Freedom of the Press” report.

In the process of developing sound relations-
between the radio station and the recreation de- I
partment, the third area cited above by Mrs. Lewis -
will become apparent—the contribution which-
radio can make to recreation through leadership in '
its community, through its special talents and
through its technical knowledge. Cooperation be—
tween recreation and radio cannot be a one—way
street; the cultural impact of one upon the other
is very great and the advantages of teamwork be—
tween them are too pressing.

   
 
  
   
   
 
 
   

RECREATION

 

 

'- doors of the imagination must be opened . . . Chief Whirl-

Thunder tells Indian stories to an enihralled audience.

Let the children tell stories themselves. Above, proud
winners of a storytelling contest on the playground.

. Storytelling

Let storytelling become a part of every activity

ANY BOOKS HAVE been written on Storytell-
M ing, but in most of them it has been treated
as though the telling of tales were a specific art
and an activity complete in itself. So it can be, but
it need not be so limited in its scope.

When we say “so—and—so is such an interesting
person,” we often mean that he or she has the
ability to dramatize daily happenings, employ dia-
logue, reach a climax, unfold to us in a vivid and
descriptive manner events and situations which we
might not have been aware of, or noticed as inter-
esting or unusual. That person is a storyteller.

In like manner, if we have any feeling for the
past, and any background of knowledge or infor—
mation, a fossil shell imbedded in a rock, an Indian
arrowhead, a doorway, a quaint street, a strain of
music, all tell a story. We ate misers at heart if
we hear these stories and do not pass them on to
our friends and to our groups.

We do not have to be assigned to storytelling.
The whole world is a vast mosaic of tales. If we
drive past an apple orchard, the story of Johnny
Appleseed comes to us, and in its train, the whole
saga of American pioneer days. That orchard be-

MARCH 1948

Virginia Musselman

comes not only a beautiful sight, but a symbol.
We are selfish if we do not pass on that symbol
to others. Too many of us hoard these symbols
and cherish them close to our hearts. They are
not ours alone—they belong to everyone; and must
be shared in order to attain their full meaning.

So in every job we do we are surrounded by
stories—sad ones, funny ones, queer. ones, inspir-
ing ones. We must learn to find and to recognize
them-—-and we must pass them on. How poor we
should be if our grandparents, our parents, our
teachers and our friends had not passed on to us
their stories of fact or fiction. How much richer
we should be if we had heard more of these stories.
and had recognized their importance. They repre—
sent our continuity with the past.

Our plea is that storytelling be not relegated to
an hour a day on the playground, around a camp
fire or in a clubroom, but become part of every
activity that we conduct. It 'should be the bright
pattern running through the warp of every skill
taught, every activity promoted. Skilled fingers
and active bodies are not enough. As everyone
knows, the doors of the imagination must be

561

opened if the heart is to be enriched.

It is a very simple and easy task to teach a child
to square knot a belt. How much more important
that belt becomes if, in addition to that skill, he
has also had his imagination fed with the stories of
early Phoenician days when Tyrian purple was
more valuable than gold and became the symbol
of kings: of early shipping days when rope-making
was an art; of visions of all the faraway places
from which our materials come to us.

In teaching drawing, will not the story of Da
V inci and his dreams, the hardships of Van Gogh,
the adventures of Gauguin in the South Seas, the
travels of Rockwell Kent, all be as valuable as
perspective, color harmony and balance?

Do not, then, set storytelling apart as a special
art, using it only at definite intervals. To let it
pervade our every activity will mean more work,
more time, and more imagination on our part, but
the gathering of knowledge is much more impor-
tant than the gathering of facts, and results in
much more permanent satisfactions.

Perhaps our fear of storytelling is the result of
our thinking of it in too elaborate terms. There
are times for the usual type of storytelling, but we
lose a great opportunity if we leave storytelling to
specific times, places, and leaders. Homer told his
tales to servants and to kings; most of our knowl-
edge of the Middle Ages comes to us from the
tales of the traveling troubadours. All of our
legends and tales are handed down through the
ages first by word of mouth—by bards, poets, and
the simple people, telling tales to their children and
grandchildren as they worked and played. We are
part of this long chain, carrying from one genera-
tion to the next the stories that have made life
interesting and important. We are all tellers of
tales, and we must make them as vivid and articu-
' late as possible, because they are our link with the
past and the future.

Any Age Is Story Age . . .

The Age of Rhymes and Rhythms (3-6 year olds)

Children from three to six years old need to feel
secure in the world around them. The loss of this
security may do great damage, reflected later in
such traits as fear of the dark, of animals, of
storms; shyness, timidity, nervousness, and sensi-
tiveness. To tell a young child a story full of hor-
ror because it is amusing to see his face contort,
his hands clench and his eyes widen, or to tell a
sad story in order to see his eyes fill with tears is
criminal. All too often parents and leaders com-

562

mit this crime because it is flattering to see such

quick response, and becausethey do not realize the I

damage they may be doing.

The young child is interested in familiar things
——-things he sees and hears and knows in his daily
life. He is a complete realist. He is too young for
make-believe. His whole being is filled with the
need for absorbing all the wonders at hand. He is
interested in his father and mother, the children
he knows, his home, his street, his dog and cat,
and any other animals or things in his environ—

ment. In telling him stories, know this environ- '

ment. A city child may be more familiar with a
fire engine than with a cow.

Speech is relatively new to a child, and he loves
the sound of words. This age chuckles over rhymes
and jingles, and they are very real to him. It is
interesting that almost all of us remember our
Mother Goose long after we’ve forgotten hundreds
of other stories. The jingle, plus the familiar char-
acters, becomes so real to us that it stays with us.

Remember that a child’s span of interest is short.
Do not let your stories take too long. Let the child
participate in them by breaking them often with
“and what do you suppose she saw?” sort of ques—
tions. This not only holds the interest, but gives
the story surprise and suspense.

Let the children play-act the stories, but in their
own way, with no artificial props or sets. Use them
as a basis for rhythms, like running, stretching,
bending, and jumping. Let them carry-over into
their active play. Let them climb the jungle-gym
“like Benny the Squirrel,” and jump over their
blocks “like the cow jumped over the moon.”

Let the children tell you. stories—what they saw,
what they did, what they said. It will encourage
them in developing an understanding of their en-
vironment. It will give them poise, and make
speech more interesting to them.

Tell your stories in a quiet voice, but do not let
your voice become monotonous. Let your whole
attitude be one of good nature and humor. Avoid
overstimulation in all forms. Any type of public
performance tends to overstimulate this age group.
If, for any reason, a demonstration becomes nec-

essary, let their activities be group activities, not;
individual performances, and let them be childlike:

in content—not parodies of adult activities. Too

often such shows are given more to please thel
parents than to be beneficial to the children. Chil-I
dren are not “little men” or “little ladies.” Theyl
are not small-sized editions of adults, and shouldl
not be treated as such. Respect them for them-ll
selves. Avoid such travesties as mock weddings.

RECREATION

The Age of the Fairy Tale

Children above the preschool age have learned
to distinguish between the real and the unreal, and
can place fairies, goblins, dragons, giants, and

I gnomes in their proper perspective—as delightful
- fancies of the imagination. If they have become

: adjusted to their environment and feel secure in

the world around them, they will no longer be dis-

turbed by outlandish adventures and strange

portunity to introduce the chil-

forms. They have reached the age of the fairy tale.

There have been a great many discussions re-
garding fairy stories, and contentions that they
have no place in the mind of the modern child in
that they do nothing toward preparing him for
everyday, adult life. If we follow this theory, we
shall have to eliminate most of the arts—music,
sculpture, drama, painting,. and much of our
literature, since most of us do not use these ac-
Itivities in conducting our everyday, economic life.

We believe, however, that
.fairy tales are part of our cul-
tural inheritance, and that chil—
dren should be allowed to hear,
read and enjoy them. They are
{logical lead-ups to the heroic
l

 

and the romantic in legend, song
and story. Shall we throw out
the Wagnerian operas, the King
Arthur stories, the Iliad and the
Odyssey because they deal with
supernatural beings — giants,
dragons, gods, magicians, and
so on P. What would our litera-
ture do without the Cinderella
theme P

This period also offers the op—

dren to the folk tales of other

 

this is a vast field often neglected by storytellers.

Do not neglect good literature. We tend to un—
derestimate children, feeding them the boys’ and
girls’ series books, when they can understand and
love many of the real classics. The child characters
of Dickens—Little Nell (Old Curiosity Shop),
Tiny Tim (Christmas Carol), and David Copper-
field; Maggie Tulliver cutting her hair, Maggie
running away to join the gypsies, Tom and the
ferrets——-all from The Mill on the Floss by George
Eliot; The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, and Rip Van
Winkle of lVashington Irving’s Sketchbook; Hia—
watha, Paul Revere’s Ride, The Courtship of Miles
Standish, from Longfellow’s poems—all of these
are not beyond the childrens’ ability to know and
love. It is in this period that a love of good litera-
ture may be begun—a cultural force with deep
implications for the rest of their lives.

The Age of Heroes' of Romance. and .of Reality

These characteristics are
grouped together because in most
groups they run parallel with
each other. The differences can '
be overcome by the presentation,
rather than the material itself.
In other words, for the younger
ages in this group, the story it-
self may be the important thing.
For the older groups, it will be
the concept: of the story. For
example, the story of Siegfried
may be presented as a fairy
story, as a heroic adventure
story, a story of romance, or it
may be interpreted from a more
intellectual point of view as a
symbolic story of good versus
evil, right versus wrong. This

! The young

Once upon a time . .
child loves the sound of words.

countries, to the customs of
. other children in other lands,and

to stories of their own country. It is an excellent

matter of presentation is a most
important factor to a storyteller,
and should be given great care and thought. It is

means of establishing interest and understanding.

Here, too, is where an appreciation of music
r o o o
and art may be engendered, usmg stor1es With
| muSIc, or in music, such as—Peter and the Wolf,

by Serge Prokofyev and Adventures in a Peram-
Imlator by Carpenter.

" The pictures of Corot, Millet, Rembrandt, Van
Dyck, Velasquez offer wide opportunities for arous-
l ng interest and appreciation of art through story-
i ‘ elling. Use prints of them as adjuncts to the stories.

Here, too, can begin an interest in science and
he romance of everyday life,——the answers to the
I ‘why?” of the earlier period. Oddly enough,

| ARCH 1948

the type of presentation, not the content, that
should be fitted to the needs of any given group.

Hero worship is not confined to any specific age
group. The preschool age looks up to its parents,
its play leaders, and to other children, usually a
little older. “Crushes” can be found in the next
age group, idolization of baseball players, band
leaders, movie stars and so on. The need to at-
tach one’s emotions to a single object has no age
limit. The proper selection and interpretation of
the heroic—through storytelling—can assist in
supplying an outlet for this characteristic. Give
your group King Arthur, Beowulf, Siegfried, Joan

Q

563

of Arc, Robin Hood, the Greek heroes, our Ameri-
can leaders, and the great names in travel, astron-
omy, medicine and the other sciences—Marco
Polo, Columbus, Cabot, Galileo, Pasteur, Curie,
Reed, and other great heroes, living and dead.

Do not neglect the immediate environment.
There is no town, or city, or section of land that
has no interesting stories connected with it—
whether of early settlement, or industrial growth,
or of its citizenry. Look into the local history, and
give your groups a knowledge of, and pride in,
their birthplace. This, incidentally, can often be of
great use in dramatics or pageantry as natural
outgrowths of the stories.

For romance and glamour, and when feeling is
near the surface, give poetry freely. Do not con-
fine yourself to reading it—let the group read
stirring portions; let them read it. in chorus.
Poetry was meant to be spoken, not read silently.
The Psalms were shouted from hill to hill; the
Travels of Ulysses were chanted in the great halls
of ancient Greece. Poetry is auditory, not visual.
Give them moderns as well as classics. Let them
chant Vachel Lindsay’s The Congo, and The Cal-

lyope, and see what excitement they can arouse.
Give them Carl Sandberg, Robert Frost, Walt
Whitman, Alfred Noyes, Rudyard Kipling. Let
them chuckle over The Forty Singing Seamen and
shiver over The Highwaymen.

Introduce them to naturalists and give them
plenty of stories of bird and animal life. Love of
nature is one of the characteristics of the romantic
period—stories of the stars, of forests, of plant
life, of water, of insects. Thoreau, Burroughs, and
Audubon should become real to them.

Stories of the great musicians and artists belong
to this period, and should be combined with exam-
ples of their music and art, supplemented by spe-
cial trips to concerts, museums or galleries.

These groups need and can absorb all the men-
tal stimulation we can give them. What they learn
and feel here will be reflected in all of their future
thought and used as standards for their future
work and play. Let us give them the best that we
can find. Show them the beauty and wonder of
the world around them, and we will help them
find their place in the sun.

 

NDER THE SPONSORSHIP of the Federal Inter-
Agency Committee on Recreation, twenty
Federal and non-governmental agencies met in
Washington, on December third, for an exchange
of ideas and for advice and suggestions as to the
best methods for cooperating to further the devel-
opment of the recreation program. This first meet-
ing of a planned series of meetings was called
primarily to discuss that phase of recreation con-
cerned with the preservation of American beaches,
wilderness areas and native landscapes. Similar
meetings in the future will be held to discuss other
topics and problems relating to recreation. A
larger number of organizations will be invited to
attend. Among those represented in December
were the American Recreation Society, the Ameri-
can Institute of Park Executives and the National
Recreation Association.

Although the conference was directed to the
discussion of the conservation problems facing
the recreation movement, it was informal, and
numerous questions were raised for consider-
ation. It was brought out that private organiza-

I

564.

Joint Conference

tions could best cooperate with the Federal agen-
cies when kept informed not only of the general
objectives of the Committee and its member agen-
cies, but also of specific projects where the organi-
zations could be of help.

Among the needs brought out were those for the
preparation and distribution by the Committee of
information as to what state governments are
doing to bring about cooperation among state gov-
ernment departments active in the recreation field
along the lines of the work of the Committee in the
Federal area; the preparation and distribution of
definitive statements of the activities services, and
facilities for which each of the agencies on the
Committee is responsible; and the release of all
publicity and information possible by the Commit-
tee to private groups. The private groups were
generous in their offers to cooperate by working
through their membership to help preserve and in-
crease the natural recreation resources of th
country, and to disseminate through their publica-
tions, bulletins and otherwise, full informatio
about the activities and plans of the Committee

RECREATIO

 

You Meet Such

Interesting Facts

A summing-up of significant research projects undertaken

 

by the National Recreation Association. during the year 1947

ESEARCH HAS ALWAYS been a most important
R phase of the work of the National Recreation
Association which has recognized the gathering,
analysis and publication of information on various
problems related to recreation as essential to effec-
tive work in the recreation field. Most of its sig-
nificant research projects have grown out of ex-
pressed needs for information and/or guidance in
various areas of work; and many have been car-
ried on with the assistance and cooperation of
committees composed of recreation executives and
other qualified individuals.

Among interesting studies completed or carried
on in 1947 are the following: ‘

Recreation Year Book. Preparation involved an
analysis of questionnaire reports submitted by
I 790 agencies in 1530 municipalities and covering
recreation services and facilities in 1743 communi—
ties. It necessitated correspondence with the cities
submitting reports, a careful analysis of the infor-
mation reported and a tabulation of summary data
from the United States and Canada. The Year
Book recording community recreation facilities.

personnel, services and expenditures for 1946 was-

published in the June 1947 issue of RECREATION.

County Recreation. In view of the growing in-
terest in the development of recreation programs
on a county or regional basis, a rather comprehen-
sive study was made of what county authorities
and agencies are doing in the way of providing
park and recreation services, facilities and pro-
grams. This involved not only considerable cor-
respondence with county authorities but also held
visits.

introduction to Community Recreation. Work
.was largely completed on the revision of this vol-
ume which was originally issued in 1940 and which

MARCH 1948

is now in its ninth printing. This work involved
correspondence with a large number of cities, and
an analysis of literature and reports of develop-
ments in the recreation field in the last few years.

Community Recreation Buildings. In order to an-
swer more effectively inquiries on community rec-
reation buildings and to assist in the preparation
of floor plans for such buildings, considerable
study was given to literature on a Variety of com—
munity recreation buildings of many types, and
visits were made to a number of such buildings.

College and University Courses. A brief ques-
tionnaire was sent to colleges and universities in-
quiring as to the types of courses they are offering
in the field of recreation. The 508 replies have
been analyzed and plans are being made to secure
more detailed information from the seventy-eight
institutions reporting majors in recreation.

Fees and Charges. Because of the current wide-
spread interest in this subject, a sampling study,
involving visits. to a number of cities and ques-
tionnaires submitted to a considerable number of
recreation authorities, was undertaken. A sum-
mary of the results was distributed at the meeting
on fees and charges at the National Recreation
Congress.

Salaries and Education of Recreation Executives.
Replies to the questionnaire sent out late in 1946
were summarized and widely distributed, bringing
up-to-date information on salaries of recreation
executives and their educational preparation.

Community Sports Programs. Work was largely
completed on the preparation for a comprehensive
manual dealing with community sports programs,
their organization and administration.

Standards for Municipal Recreation Areas. To
replace an earlier publication which is no longer

565

available, and to meet the need for up—to-date in-
formation for the guidance of authorities in the
preparation of long range area plans, literature
relative to standards for recreation areas was ana—
lyzed. A statement setting forth up-to—date recom—
mendations for various types of recreation areas
was prepared and will soon be available.

Recreation Services of Federal Agencies. After
a study of the materials issued by various federal
agencies furnishing recreation services, and consul-
tation with representatives of these agencies, a
comprehensive statement was prepared and pub-
lished in a special issue of RECREATION.

Services of State Governments to Communities.
Information as to the nature and scope of the ser—
vices rendered by the various states to local com-
munities in developing recreation facilities and in
organizing programs was assembled and a sum—
mary of the findings published in RECREATION.

Clubs in the Recreation Program. Material as-
sembled in a special study carried on in 1946
was reviewed and issued in a publication entitled
“Clubs in the Recreation Program.” This con—
tains suggestions for club organization, adminis—
tration, programs and methods whereby recreation
departments can foster them.

Recreation for Older People. A booklet entitled
“11% Plus—Recreation for Older People” is
the result of a comprehensive study of programs
for this age group.

Athletic Badge Tests. A start was made in the
revision of the Athletic Badge Tests which have
remained unchanged for many years. A consider-
able number of authorities were requested to send
comments and suggestions with reference to the
tests.

Park and Recreation Trends. An article dealing
with park and recreation trends in 1946 was pre—
pared for the Municipal Year Book and a begin-
ning was made in assembling similar data for an
article to appear in the 1947 issue.

Where Place Recreation? Considerable time was
devoted to a continuing study of the effectiveness
of different forms of local recreation organization.

Recreation Needs and Resources. An attempt to
appraise the adequacy of ekisting recreation re-
sources and programs and to estimate what needs
to be done to serve adequately the recreation needs
of individuals and communities.

Recreation Buildings in Small Towns. A brief
study was made of existing recreation buildings in
small communities with special reference to the
relationship of recreation and democracy, and a

566

O

comprehensive statement was prepared for public—
ity use in connection with the Freedom Train.

National Recreation Congress. Suggestions sent
by a large number of individuals as to desirable
topics to discuss_at the Recreation Congress were
analyzed and incorporated in a set of suggested
questions prepared for the guidance of the chair-
men and panel members at the forty discussion
meetings at the Congress.

Methods of Appointing Recreation Executives.
An analysis of the authority responsible for 'the
selection of the recreation executive in a large
number of American cities.

Colliers Encyclopedia. Articles dealing with rec—
reation and playgrounds were written to appear

, in the new edition of this encyclopedia.

Cooperative Projects. Among such projects, un-
dertaken during the year, were: one in which as:
sistance and advice were given to a number of
graduate students in colleges and universities in
the selection and development of studies in the
field of recreation designed as doctor’s or master’s
theses, and one in which suggestions were made on
the editing of sections of the Proceedings of the
National Conference on Facilities for Athletics,
Health, Physical Education and Recreation spon—
sored by _the Athletic Institute.

Continuous Research and Analysis. Magazines,
reports, bulletins, booklets and other printed mate—
rial reaching the Association in vast amounts were
analyzed carefully to determine their possible value
and use to the recreation movement. Out of this
study, material was made available for use in
RECREATION, in the various bulletin services, in
the 1947 Summer Playground Notebook and in
the' special publications and information service.
Bibliographies on _various phases of recreation
were revised and reissued after a considerable
amount of research.

Projects for 1948

In addition to the current and continuous anal—
ysis of incoming material and the special projects
that arise from time to time as the result of un-
anticipated needs, the following major projects are
scheduled for 1948: Community Sports Programs;
Introduction to Community Recreation; Commu—
nity Recreation Buildings; Recreation Courses in
Colleges and Universities; Athletic Badge Tests;
Park and Recreation Trends; Recreation Needs
and Resources; Salaries; Recreation Leadership
Standards; State Recreation Legislation relating
to (a) Enabling Acts, (b) State Services; Plan-
ning and Financing Recreation Areas and Facil—
ities in Cities over 500,000. '

RECREATION

 

Gustavus Town Kirby

Honored

N JANUARY 22nd, Gustavus Town Kirby was
0 given a testimonial dinner at the Waldorf—
Astoria Hotel in New York City. The dinner was
sponsored by a group of twenty-eight organiza-
tions with which Mr. Kirby has been Officially
identified, under the leadership of the Boys’ Ath-
letic League which he has served for many years
as honorary president. Planned for his birthday,
the affair took on the color and warmth of a birth-
day party. Two hundred friends enjoyed the fes-
tivities but no one more than the honored guest,
who took special joy in blowing out the seventy-
four candles on his birthday cake.

Dr. William E. Stevenson, President of Oberlin
College, served as toastmaster. Seventeen warm
and sincere tributes were paid Mr. Kirby by those
at the speakers’ table—including representatives
of many of the sponsoring groups.

A statement on the printed program said, in
part: “Few indeed have competed longer or in
more sports than has Mr. Kirby. He has followed
the maxim that it is better to compete and lose
than merely to stand on the sidelines and cheer.
In school and at Columbia' he ran the four-forty
and half mile, played football _and baseball and
captained the fencing team that won the intercol—
legiate championship. He has sailed boats to vic—
tories, ridden his horses over the jumps in many
a show and followed the hounds in his own West-
chester County, at Camden, South Carolina and
in England and Italy. Always has he been promi-
nent in the administrative field. Probably by rea—
son of his own sports participation he, more than
most, has brought to his many administrative
positions that knowledge of the rules of competi-
tion, of sport for sport’s sake, that makes for fair-
ness, positiveness and success.”

Mr. Kirby was presented with the Boys’ Expo-
sition Gold Medal. Quoting from the citation ac-
companying this award: “For your unselfish ser-
vice in furthering the best interests of boys, as
evidenced by your leadership in promoting the

MARCH 1948

 

Olympic Games and thereby setting a high exam—
ple for all boys~ to the best in sportsmanship.”
The citation also mentioned, among other connec-
tions, Mr. Kirby’s long service as treasurer of
the National Recreation Association.

Representing the National Recreation Associa-
tion, as one of the sponsoring organizations at the
speakers’ table, Otto T. Mallery of the Associa—
tion’s board said that Mr. Kirby, as treasurer, had
handled many millions of dollars for the Associa—
tion. “Money goes further and accomplishes more
in the National Recreation Association,” said Mr.
Mallery, “than in any other organization with
which I am familiar. Mr. Kirby, as a quarter—mile
runner, might have run away with the cash but
preferred to do his running unencumbered! As a
member of the Board of Directors for many years,
he participated in pioneering decisions. There were
years in which playgrounds were few and far be-
tween and the public understanding of their need
was meager. The original movement for the wiser
use of leisure time by adults was at first ridiculed,
and years were required before the right use of
leisure was generally recognized as an important
national asset. In this movement, and in many
important decisions of the board, Mr. Kirby par-
ticipated. He was always full of ideas, all of them
enthusiastically presented. His enthusiasm and
unceasing helpfulness through the years made him
many friends, none of whom were lost. That is
why so many friends are here tonight to celebrate
his birthday and to honor him.”

567

What can they be searching for?

 

RECREATION

The Egg and You

 

ONG LIVE SIR Bunny and the whole festive tra-

dition of Easter—new bonnets, gay linery to

be paraded on the Avenue; the Easter eggs so

dressed up that no self—respecting hen would ever

own them; soft, cuddly yellow chicks; the flowers

that bloom in the spring. Easter just seems to
bring out the artistry in all of us.

One of the most pleasant rituals of the holiday
is the disguising of the common egg. This custom
had its origin thousands of years ago—it is older
than the Christian religion itself. The oldest writ-
ten records trace the “Easter” egg back to some
5,000 years before Christ when the ancient Par—
sees exchanged colored eggs at their New Year’s
festivals held in the early spring to celebrate the
beginning of the new year. As Easter came at the
same time, the practice was adopted by the Chris-
tians and continued in popular favor until the
colored egg today is symbolic of Easter.

Since it takes all kinds of eggs to make an
Easter basket, you’d better gather them together
and we’ll go to work right away.

First, to turn a hen’s egg into a “bunny” egg,
you may do one of two things. Either prick a tiny
hole in each end of the egg with a large needle
and blow out the inside or boil it for fifteen min-
utes. Eggs must be white and smooth; brown eggs
or rough eggs will not take either color or wax. If
you are designing your eggs for temporary use
only, and would like to use them in a salad, use
the boil method by all means. If yours is to be a
keepsake egg, blow it and it is good indefinitely.

Some people prefer to add two tablespoons of
salt to the boiling water to prevent the eggs from
cracking.

Second, for eggs colored to perfection, use the
harmless pure food dyes on the market during the

MARCH 1948

Easter season. Directions will be on the package.
Last, and one of the most important steps, is the
actual designing of those eggs. Of course, a basket
of eggs decorated in a rainbow of colors will be
very attractive, but if you want that “special”
look, here are a few suggestions* you may follow
——and do give the youngsters a chance, too.

Easter Greeting—Stick a bunny seal from
a package of assorted Easter seals (you will find
some at your local stationers) right in the center
of a heavenly blue egg. The Easter greeting can
be cut from another seal in the same package and
pasted under the bunny. To make a lily arch for
your bunny to walk under, cut individual lilies
from a lily cluster seal, and arrange in an arch.

Initialled Egg—Color this egg with orange
egg dye. When dry, paste a strip of white lacy
ribbon around it and decorate with little yellow
rosettes and tiny green leaves. Make rosettes by
rolling a two inch wide strip of yellow crepe paper
up on itself to a thickness of a quarter of an inch.
Then slice roll into quarter of an inch wide slices.
Press thumb down on slices to make rosettes.
Paste twisted crepe paper (made by pulling a one
half inch wide strip of crepe paper through a
twister, giving an added twist as you pull) to
form desired initial on front of egg.

Make It Personal—Cover an egg with deli—
cate pink crepe paper by winding it with a one
half inch wide strip of crepe paper cut across the
fold—just as you would wind a bandage, pasting it
to hold. Trim with turquoise crepe paper cut in
one half inch wide strips and braided by pasting
ends of two strips together and folding one strip
over the other. Paste braid to egg. Write name
by pasting turquoise crepe paper twist in place as
you did for initialled egg.

569

Another way of putting
names (or designs) on eggs is
to write or draw the pattern on
the egg shell with a piece of
beeswax. Then leave the eggs
in vinegar for two or three
hours. The vinegar eats away
the part of the shell which is
not protected by the wax, and
will leave an engraved or
raised design on the egg.

 

Illusion—This one certainly looks good
enough to eat! A heavenly blue egg (wrapped in
azure blue crepe paper) and “frosted” with white
crepe paper twist, pasted in loOps.

Easter Bunny House—Dye an egg bright
green and paste a roof of shining red mat stock
cut in a two inch square, folded across middle, to
top 'of egg. Cut chimney in shape of an arrow—
one and a half inches long. Paste to roof. Set egg
on a base made from a strip of lightweight card-
board four and a half inches long and three quar—
ters of an inch wide; slit one half inch up at one
end and one half inch down on the other—then
lock together. Paste a piece of white lacy’ ribbon
around base. Paste a rounded strip of red (can be
cut from a notarial seal) for door and stick a
bunny seal in doorway.

Some of your other artistic work will require a
“collar” or neck ring for your Easter egg, but this
is a simple task to conquer.

The Egg’s Resting Place—Make a cardboard
“collar” standard to keep the face in an upright
position. Cardboard the weight of that used in
manila folders is the most practical. Cut a circle-—
with a diameter of three inches—out of cardboard.
In the center of it, draw a concentric circle with a
diameter of One and one half inches. Cut in from
‘ the outer edge, in a straight line, to the edge of
the smaller circle and cut it out. Fold the edges
of the “collar” over one another until the egg will
stand upright when inserted in the circular hole at
the top of the standard. Staple the edges together,
and decorate the standards as you desire.

If you prefer, you can makea neck ring for
your gay-fashioned egg by cutting a piece of draw—
ing paper four inches wide and two inches high.
It is then folded over so that it becomes only one
inch high. Next it is pasted end to end to form a
ring. The pointed end of the egg is then set into
the neck ring.

Humpty Dumpty—The “wall” on which
Humpty sits is a piece of mailing tube one inch
wide, covered with red crepe paper and marked

570

off into bricks with white pencil. A four inch long
piece of pipe cleaner, bent in the middle and pasted
inside mailing tube, serves as legs, with bits of
black passe partout stuck on ends for shoes.
Humpty Dumpty’s head is an egg, of course. His
features are cut from colored seals; lashes and
brows are drawn with black pencil. His belt is a
strip of black passe partout with a gold signal dot
for a buckle. His hat is a blue notarial seal with
pie-shaped pieces cut out all around. Stick it at a
jaunty angle to his head. And so you’ll have put
Humpty Dumpty together again—a feat that all
the king’s horses and all the king’s men couldn’t
duplicate.

Easter Nosegaysm—Dye an egg brilliant red
and paste tiny nosegays here and there over it.
The flowers are made by cutting little ovals of
various colors of crepe paper and twisting a full
twist in the middle. Paste four of these twisted
petals in different colors to-
gether in center of tiny circles
cut from lace paper doilies.
These are pasted here and
there to the egg.

Personality Eggs —— It’s
fun to paint egg faces. Paint
the features on a hard-boiled
egg with ordinary water col-
ors. Cheeks may be pink or
red; hair black, brown or yel-
low; eyes blue or black with
dark lashes. Lips, naturally, will be red. Con—
struction paper hats, paper eyelashes or eyebrows,
yarn or paper hair, perky bbws or bow ties will
add life to your Easter egg people.

With an extra dab of originality, you can add
a touch of costume and magically turn your egg
“faces” into recognizable individuals. For instance:

Uncle Sam—After drawing the outlines of
his face (if in doubt, just look in your history
book, at a cartoon or in any magazine or news-
paper—he’s a very popular fellow) with pen or
ink, paste on white cotton, about one inch long, to
represent hair—from one temple around the back
and then to the other temple. Paste a small tri- .
angular piece of cotton on his chin for the beard.
Add a star-spangled hat and collar, using the neck
ring or standard as the base of the collar.

There you have your Easter eggs all ready for
your holiday parties, feasts, games and egg hunts.
You’ll probably think of many more decorating
variations as you go along—s0 happy inspiration
and Happy Easter. '

 

 

'SomeIOf this information has been used by permission 0:
the Dennison Manufacturing Company.

RECREATION

 

 

Young Folks
Make History

A Story of the Happy Hoboes and Sad Sacks of Indianapolis, Indiana

NE COLD FRIDAY evening in the latter part of

January 1945, six teen-aged boys met in a
small room at Crossroads, rehabilitation center of
the Marion County Society for the Crippled. All
were handicapped, several of 'them wheel chair
cases.

The idea was to form a recreation. club for
handicapped teen—agers. Officers were elected, and
a name chosen—“The Happy Hoboes.”

Despite many criticisms and protests from the
fair sex, the Happy Hoboes continued a strictly'
male group for over a year. But in March of ’46,
a party was given and girls invited “just for the
novelty of the thing.” It was only then that the
Hoboes came to the conclusion that having girls
around was not so bad after all. By popular vote
it was decided to accept them as members.

Naturally the girls were not so keen about being

called hoboes so, with a subtle bit of sarcasm, they-

selected their own name, “The Sad Sacks.” Every-
one was happy. And in 1946 a girl was elected
president of what was now the Happy Hoboes and
Sad Sacks.

Expanding steadily, the group has long since
outgrown the room in which it was first organized.

The club now meets in Crossroads Auditorium,‘

under the supervision of its good friends and coun-
selors of the American Women’s Voluntary Ser-
vices. These meetings mean so much—and are,
for many a hobo and sack, the only social life
they have.
' Aside from conducting the business of the or-
ganization, the meetings are social affairs. Some-
times movies are shown; occasionally interesting
guests are invited for talks and demonstrations.
Always there are games, music and the fun of vis-
iting with each other. .
At a recent meeting the hall was a beehive of

MARCH 1948

activity. The treasurer was using an adding ma-
chine to figure up his “outstanding accounts.”

These amounted to $16.40 and he was “threaten—

ing” to crack down on people who failed to keep
their dues paid. There was laughter, singing, and
plenty of ice cold soft drinks and generous wedges
of home-made cake for everybody. Children in
wheel chairs were playing ping pong. All were
having fun in a big way and crutches, canes, braces
and wheel chairs were not permitted to interfere.

When weather permits, the members enjoy
wienie' roasts and other outdoor activities. Many
attend the summer camp and six-week day camp
conducted each year by the Marion County Soci—
ety for the Crippled. At last year’s summer camp,
the croquet tournament was won by a boy in a
wheel chair—the club’s vice president.

The club has its own officers, by-laws, member-
ship cards and the necessary entertainment and
transportation committees. In this organization,
the transportation committee is tremendously im-
portant as some of the members must be trans-
ported in the Crossroads station wagon, a gift of
the A.W.V.S. The committee does a bang-up job
with a map of the City of Indianapolis and col-
ored markers designating the various addresses of
the wheel chair cases. When necessary, the com-
mittee can get “tough.” If the family has a car—
no transportation is supplied for junior.

The Happy Hobo and Sad Sack Chorus meets
for practice on alternate Friday nights. The chorus
has acquired quite a reputation for its rendition
of Stephan Foster melodies. In fact, a number of
requests for out-of-town appearances have had to
be turned down.

Yes, these' young folks make “history” just by
being members of this unique organization of
handicapped children.

571

[I Mm. |w'.  )

The Isaac Walton’s and the
Nimrods evidentally top the list . . .

OF COURSE THEY’RE nuts. And thank God they
are, because they are the sanest people in a

mad world. Politely, and in a vernacular free from
slang, we are referring to those hobby-riding
equestrians whose avid pursuit of happiness some-
times exposes them to the ridicule of their prosaic
neighbors.

“A hobby is something you go nuts about to
keep from going crazy” is the way one observer
dehnes a pastime so engrossing that it annihilates
the passage of time. In recreation work, we are
exposed to these beloved screwballs in such a way

that’their foibles become virtues and their idio-C

syncrasies turn to towers of strength.

Let’s focus our detection apparatus on a few
different species of the “nut family.” The Isaac
\Valton’s and Nimrods evidently top the list. The
former group involves people who classify them-
selves as anything from “fishermen,” who catch a
mess of fish and eat them, to “scientific anglers”
who regard themselves as artists in the handling
of a frail fly rod.

Menke, in the Encyclopedia of Sports* esti-
mates there are around 12,000,000 folks who fish
in the country, and cites the fact that 8,280,232
bought hshing licenses in a given fiscal year. As
spenders, these rod Wielders dispense an estimated
ONE BILLION TWO HUNDRED MILLION dollars every
twelve months on their hobby. The firearms group,
which includes both hunters and marksmen, is
second in the group of free spenders. With about
10,000,000 in the combined group, they make an
estimated annual outlay of $650,000,000 in the
pursuit of happiness via the hobby route.

 

*Nrrtv Encyclopedia of Sports, Frank G. Menke, A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York.

572

They’re Nuts!

.Nathan L. Mallison

These unassuming ladies and gentlemen who
hunt and fish seldom get eight column leads in
the newspapers except in Florida, 'where we rate
the catching of a giant blue marlin as equal to a
home run in baseball. In the quiet pursuit of their
pastimes, they spend a sum that far exceeds the
cost of horse racing, football, baseball, dog racing,
auto racing, hockey and polo. Mr. Menke is again

’the authority.

Not all people interested in sports or athletics
are hobbiests. Most fishermen are. They seldom
figure the cost, which is one mark of a real devotee.
They rise at strange hours, drive to a favorite
spot in the bleak, early hours, get wet and hungry,
and—according to one cynic—“come home smell-
ing of strong drink and the truth is not in them.”

Golfers are usually rabid enough to be listed as
“nuts.” From three to six million of them are in
the excavation business on the nation’s fairways,
depending on the year. Some play the game for
twenty-five years and then find it was too difficult
for them in the first place. For those who don’t
believe they’re “nuts,” let’s consider the facts.
This game is played on 200 aci'es of selected cow
pasture with pedigreed grass costing a dollar a
blade. Hills, lakes, sand traps, trees and other
obstructions to navigation are thrown in to make
the game more exasperating (and profane). Also
involved are eighteen holes or tin cups sunk in
superdooper grass which grows in patches called
“greens.” It sells for five dollars a blade. \Vell,
sir, the object of this game is to propel a small
whitepellet around the course in the fewest strokes
and the largest number of words. This is done
with three hundred dollars worth of curious look-
ing implements. Some people know the purpose

RECREATION

 

o

of these implements. They are the exceptions.
Four liars, who can’t add beyond eighty-seven,
usually play this game together, take a shower “en
quartet” and sing “Sweet Adeline” the same way
before calling it a day.

Now you would think that ardent hobby riders
(nuts to us) would have a wholesome respect for
the spirit actuating their contemporaries in another
hobby. Unfortunately, they do not, as evidenced
by the following story.

A foursome of golfers were sloshing down the
fairway at Ponte Vedra in what we Floridians call
a cloudburst. (Californians call it a heavy dew.)
Rivulets ran down their anatomies into their shoes.
In nearby Pablo Creek, three equally drenched
fishermen sat in an anchored rowboat. As one of
them spied the golfers, he remarked to his com-
panions, “Look at those durn fool golfers over
there playing in all this rain l”

We have considered some of the cocoanut-sized
members of the genus “nuts.” Now, let us regard
some of the filberts and hazel nuts in the family.
The model plane and miniature auto builders seem
to qualify as nuts of the smaller variety financially,
but, as de luxe products of the first order from a
standpoint of interest in their hobbies, they can’t be
beat. I have watched eyes go back and forth at a
tennis match, but for a self-administered chiroprac-
tic adjustment to the cervical vertebrae, try follow-
ing a miniature auto on a thirty-five. foot line or its
.aerial counterpart, the control-line model plane,
which invades another dimension. These little con-
traptions have a one-lung motor that‘will fit in the
palm of the hand but when it “revs” up, the sound
is like ten hives of agitated bees. Irate citizens
(fishermen, no doubt) have protested the racket
on every playground in the city. In desperation,
we finally established a “hobbyland” near the in-
cinerator. To date, the operators of the incinerator
have filed no protest. A few weeks ago, I took in
one of our invitation miniature auto meets. Minia-
ture auto builders had come from
as far as Illinois and New Jersey
because they heard ’we had a fast
track. They were right. The world’s
record was broken four times that
afternoon by miniature prototypes,
a foot long and powered by motors
with less than a cubic inch piston
displacement. In greeting the out-
of—towners, I found one who was a
commissioner of a large city, relax-
ing from the strain of politics.

Control-line model airplane fiy-
ing is the newest addition to the

MARCH 1948

 

There are many other nuts
on the hobby tree who are
managing to keep rational
in an unsteady world . . .

model fiying hobby. Some model fiyers now fly to
distant model meets in their own passenger-carry-
ing planes. One of the men, at a recent meet of I
ours, was the designer of the Thomas-Morse,
America’s first pursuit plane in W.W.I. His son
was in the same contest. The control-line flyer is
as skilled as a real fiyer. He can do aerobatics with
this plane, and two of them sometimes stage a “dog -
fight” with planes missing each other by inches.
The other devotees of model aeronautics are just
as “nutty.” Imagine spending fifty hours and fifty
dollars on a plane and then having it disappear into
the first fat cumulus cloud that comes along!

Another group of maniacs who deserve a high
place in the nuts’ hall of fame is the army of col-
lectors. Names of “what they collect could fill a
large volume. Flags, old arms, coins, stamps, cigar
bands, pictures of famous boats, old books, antique
furniture—these are just a few items. One of the
finest and oddest in the galaxy of collector’s items
is the hobby of a local citizen. When someone
shows him an unexpected courtesy, he notes the
incident and the name of the person on a card and
files it away. He has several thousand entries and
he finds the world a good one for those who look
for better things.

There are many other nuts on the hobby' tree
who are keeping rational in an unsteady world.
For twenty-eight months I rubbed shoulders with
some of them who were stationed on minute
islands in the Pacific. They made things with their
hands. Salvaged shell cases became everything
from ash trays to church candlesticks. We even
had a Solomon Islands Art Show. Seabees made
many a war club which they turned over to native
Melanesians. The natives then paddled around the
harbor in their primitive dugouts, selling the clubs
to gullible sailors of the merchant marine. Maybe
the craftsmen slowed up the war effort by making
shell necklaces. Even if they did, they were
smart, because they came home under their sea
bags and not in straight jackets.

The writer of this article? He’s
a nut, too! He goes on long canoe
cruises weekends, getting started
when some folks are returning
from night clubs. He also takes
hundreds of pictures on these trips.
Some pe0ple might think such a
hobbiest is crazy. One of them
once indicated that two o’clock in
the morning was rather early to
start on a canoe trip. We argued
that it was no more peculiar than
going for a horseback ride at the

573

same time. Our critic wanted to know who was
crazy enough to do that and we told him, “Paul
Revere.”

In our Recreation Department in Jacksonville,
we have found that a nut doesn’t live just for him-
self. He may be critical of others’ hobbies, but he
is willing to share his own. His enthusiasm is
catching, so he makes a t0p-flight volunteer, and
we really use him in his chosen field. As a matter

of fact, we maintain a “nut list” and when a self-
starting, highpowered “no dollar a year man” is
needed, a little research will turn up the right man.
No professional can radiate such enthusiasm; his
work pays dividends in happiness, while saving
wear and tear on the director’s storehouse of
energy.

“An idle mind is the devil’s workshop”; a thriv-
ing hobby shop is its purpose!

* «6%.

Recreation Forces Urged to

Aid Citizens Food Committee

'1‘ A SPECIAL meeting of some 100 national,
A recreation, education, civic, social and patri-
otic organizations called by Charles Luckman,
Chairman of the Citizens Food Committee, the
basic facts of the food situation in Europe were

 

574

presented, and an urgent request made for cooper-
ation in this emergency.

Careful consideration of the facts presented by
Mr. Luckman and representatives of the Depart-
ment of State, Commerce and Agriculture and vis-
itors returning from Eur0pe convinced us that
wholehearted c00peration with the food saving
program is a patriotic duty. '

As a cooperating organization, the National
Recreation Association urges all local recreation
agencies to take such action as will help in secur-
ing a quick understanding and acceptance by the
public of the President’s emergency food saving
program. Your local food committee can provide
suggestions of ways you can help.

Saving wheat and meat now not only will help
save lives in Europe, it may save the peace.

Recreation forces of the nation ever ready to
respond to calls for help again have a chance to
put their strength behind a program of tremendous
importance to the country and to the world.

Now is the time, for instance, to start planning
gardens. That such planning should tie-in with
food conservation is obvious. Why not use this
season of the year as a springboard for a lively
campaign in your community? ..

For posters, suggestions for help in carrying out

- the program in your community, Peace Plate reci-

pes, and other pertinent material, write Citizens
Food Committee, Executive Office of the Presi-
dent, VVashington 25, D. C.

RECREATION

Personalities in the

Recreation News . . .

9’ Woman of the Year 9’

ORTHE FIRST time in a full century of operation, the Board of Educa—
Ftion of Akron, Ohio, has selected a woman as president. This honor
and responsibility have been given to Mrs. Anne T. Case, who has a
long standing record of unselfish interest and activity in Akron’s civic
and educational matters.

Trained in social work, Mrs. Case has been an active volunteer in
many civic groups. She is an honorary member of the Akron Social
Workers Club. In 1938, she was named Akron’s “Woman of the Year”
in a Sunday forum conducted by the Akron Beacon Journal. She is an
ex-president of a number of local organizations, including the Young
Women’s Christian Association, the Council of Home and School
Leagues, and the Akron and Summit County Federation of Women’s
Clubs. She has been a member of the Akron Recreation Commission
since it was established. At the twenty-second '
r Annual District Conference of the recreation exec-

utives of Michigan, Ohio, and West Virginia,
l which was held in Akron in April 1946, Mrs. Case
I received from the mayor of the city a ten-year
' service award in recognition of her continuous ser-

vice on the recreation commission.

Responding to a letter from Howard Braucher,
congratulating her upon her selection as president
of the Board of Education, Mrs. Case recently
wrote: “As I read your gracious letter expressing
good wishes for Akron and for me, ‘memories
come crowding in for recreation.’ Whatever vol-
unteer service I have been privileged to give has
been rewarded a thousand-fold, for I have had the
opportunity to see-———iirsthand—the happiness of
boys and girls, interesting and wholesome channels
for the energies and enthusiasm of teen-agers, and
for adults, relaxation from the tensions and pres-
sures of modern life. It is really inspiring to me
that the busy President of the National Recreation
Association finds time to be interested in our com-
ings and goings in faraway Akron. Please accept
my grateful appreciation.”

 

MARCH 1948 575

 

" t:  a.* Ow 

' .4“:  -

Bruin strays from his cave' to sniff the sunshine.

Spring is Just

Around the Corner

Baseball bats are dusted 011' and brought into action.

T IS IN the sun, the soft air, the jaunty step, the
A play of children. Everyone spends longer hours
out-of-doors. It is time for recreation departments

to turn to the consideration of plans for parks and
playgrounds, outdoor programs. Camping days are
in the offing, and there is much to be done. Watch
for the next issue of RECREATION—the Playground
Issue—April 1948, for spring program suggestions.

Soon old-timers will move their chess to the parks.

 

Outdoor play periods for tots increase in frequency.

It would not be Spring without boys and their kites.

J n  " . m1..‘.-.-a‘.‘vi-:hii1;‘i-
\
‘

dewalks ring to the lively sound of roller skates.

i
I op Scotch tournaments are the order of the day.

 

ECRE.\TION II.\D A prominent place in the Na—
R tional Conference on Social \Velfare Needs
held in W ashington, January 26 and 27, under the
sponsorship of the National Social Welfare As-
sembly. The Assembly is a national council for
cooperative planning in the social welfare field. Its
membership is composed of delegates from some
forty governmental and voluntary agencies and be-
tween five and six members at large chosen from
among the civic leaders of American communities.

The Conference received, and approved, reports
from seven commissions: recreation, education,
health, housing, social security, special services for
children, and youth and citizen participation.
Among those who participated in the drafting of
the report of the Commission on Recreation under
the chairmanship of Dr. Ben Miller, Executive
Secretary, American Association for Health, Phys-
ical Education and Recreation, were:

Bernice Bridges, Director, Youth Division, Na-
tional Social Welfare Assembly, Inc. ; Charles
Brightbill, Recreation Services, Veterans Admin-
istration;  Dana Caulkins, Superintendent of
Recreation, VVestchester County Recreation Com-
mission; Milo Christiansen, Superintendent of
Public Recreation, Washington, D. C.; George
Dickie, Executive Secretary, Federal Inter-Agency
Committee on Recreation; John McDowell, Na-
tional Federation of Settlements; Thomas Rivers,
National Recreation Association; Ott Romney,
Chairman, Recreation Policies Committee, Uni-
versity of West Virginia; Helen Rowe, Camp
Fire Girls. '

The report of the Conference on Social Welfare
Needs states:

Recreation is a basic human need. It is that part
of every person’s life which is concerned with the
pleasant and constructive use of leisure time.

Recreation contributes to the satisfaction of
fundamental human appetite such as the hungers
for self-expression, creativity, belonging to a group
and being wanted, recognition, 'competition, self-
protection, health and adventure. It includes those
things which the individual chooses to do in his
time out of school, or off the job, for the satisfac-
tion found in the doing.

In an era of machines and high specialization,
when leisure time is increasing with a startling
rapidity, recreation becomes important as a means
of satisfying the hunger for living a full life free
from monotony. As an end in itself, it is supple-
mented by important social dividends. It has
proved its value in building positive physical and
mental health; in maintaining and restoring emo-
tional balance; in protecting children from injury

578

Recreation—A

and death caused by playing in unsafe places; and
in helping to prevent juvenile delinquency.
Recreation activities also afford a unique oppor-
tunity for promoting appreciation of other people
and understanding among diverse racial and cul-
tural groups; and for education for democratic

-living and international cooperation.

Scope and Content of Recreation

To meet the needs of people through recreation,
it is necessary to provide a wide variety of activ-
ities differing according to the interests and expe-
rience of individuals, the resources available and
the community setting.

Recreation services and facilities should be pro-
vided for children, adolescents, youths, adults and
the aged of all geographic areas, for both sexes,
and for all cultural and racial groups.

Well-developed community recreation services

provide the following opportunities:

1. Provision for self-directed opportunities

Places for individuals to go and equipment to
use, such as libraries, museums, picnic areas,
movies, golf courses, tennis courts, fishing, hunt-
ing, hiking and camping.

Programs to encourage family participation,
such as hobbies, music, games in the home and
facilities for the use of family groups outside the

home.

2. Provision for organized activities and hobbies,
under leadership

Opportunities are needed for participation in a
wide variety of activities which, by their nature,
must be organized, administered and guided, and
which may require equipment. Illustrations are
team games, music, arts and crafts, dances, nature
study, swimming and camping.

Individuals need opportunities for group life.
Experience in group association is one of the ways
in which youth and young adults acquire social
objectives and habits, learn to accept responsibil-
ities, and to exercise leadership. In groups, adults
achieve the satisfactions which accompany the pur-

RECREATION

 

Basic Human Need

suit of common interests, purposes, values and
social action. Group association, however, requires
leadership which is concerned with developing a
process within the group by which decisions come
about as a result of: knowledge and a sharing and
integration of ideas. Group life provides for the
development of individuals and for desirable inter-
group relations. Program activities engaged in by
organized groups are considered instrumental to
the achievement of the objectives for the social
development of individuals and groups.

For certain individuals who are maladjusted,
association in small groups can be directed so as
to serve a more precise and positive social pur-
pose, namely, socialization and guidance.

Considerable recreation is initiated and carried
on by individuals and families. However, in view
of the universal need and the variety of interests
and activities, recreation is a concern of many
sponsoring agencies including governmental, vol-

untary, private and commercial, which provide

diversified opportunities.

Unmet Needs

FACILITIES—Adequate land and water space for
neighborhood recreational use should be acquired
and protected in the early stages of community
planning. There should be full use of schools and
other community buildings for recreation.

PERSONNEL—There are not, at present, recrea-
tional leaders adequate in number and professional
preparation. Needed are: a) wider applications of
high standards of personal qualifications, profes-
sional education, and experience; b) adequate sal-
aries in line with those paid in education, govern-
ment, and other related fields; c) greater social
and economic security including provisions for re-
tirement and other sound personnel practices; (1)
qualitative and quantitative standards for profes-
sional leadership education.

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION FOR RECREATION—
Correlation of tax—supported, voluntary, and com—
mercial programs is needed to plan for use to the
fullest possible extent; to correlate existing ser-

MARCH 1948

vices and to create new services for unmet needs;
to develop the means of support and control the
standards of recreational agencies and establish-
ments so as to assure the highest quality of service
from each; to develop opportunities outside the
immediate locale including national and interna—
tional recreational experiences.

UNDERSERVED GROUPS—Included are thousands
of small communities and rural areas; minority
groups, such as Negroes and certain nationality
groups; neighborhoods which have less service
than others in the same city; girls and women who
are generally less well-provided for than boys and
men; Special groups such as the aged, the hospi-
talized, and the physically and mentally handi-
capped.

PUBLIC SUPPORT—To provide adequate recrea-
tional opportunities to meet the needs of all our

people, a great deal more financial support is
essential.

Principles and Recommendations

The Commission on Recreation offers the fol-
lowing principles and recommendations for the
consideration of communities and organizations
vitally concerned with the welfare of citizens. It is
recommended that the community should provide:

I. Definite provision for individuals to engage
voluntarily in a wide variety of activities;

2. Equal opportunities for services and facilities
in all geographical areas, for both sexes, all ages,
and all cultural and racial groups;

3. Opportunities for participation throughout
the entire year, and for all periods when substan-
tial groups of the population have free time;

4. Reasonable balance between indoor and out-
door activities and between participation and pas-
sive enjoyment;

5. Definite provisions for group life and suffi-
cient individualization in the conduct of group ac-
tivities to ensure the educational values inherent
in such group association;

6. A recreation coordinating and planning body
related to planning for education, welfare and
other services;

7. Adequate public and private finances to meet
the needs of its citizens for recreation;

8. A carefully organized program of public rela-
tions to interpret the work of the agencies;

9. A definite program of study and research to

keep abreast of the needs and changing conditions
in the community;

10. As a part of city planning, adequate land
and water should be designated to meet present
and future recreational needs;

F

579

II. Maximum opportunities for the use of all
schools and other community resources.

Agencies and organizations should have a care—
fully formulated philosophy of work, made specific
in statements of objectives and goals. The person-
nel of the agencies should include competent, pro-
fessionally educated, and well paid leadership as
well as capable, trained volunteers.

Summary

Recreation is a basic human need and is a volun-
tary activity enjoyed during leisure time. The
strain of modern living and increased leisure con-
tribute to this need. Recreation is important as a
I means of self-expression and of maintenance of
physical and mental health and emotional stability;
and in providing opportunities for social relation—

ships and group experiences lacking in the daily 0

life of most people.

It is a concern of local, state and Federal gov-
ernment agencies, semi-public agencies supported
by voluntary contributions, private clubs and or-
ganizations and commercial agencies. All must
have continued and expanded support if our recre-
ation needs are to be fully met.

Outstanding major lacks in present services:

I. Adequate recreational Spaces and facilities
are not available in all communities, often because
of failure to acquire or set aside such space
through community planning.

2. Professional personnel, adequate in number
and training, are not now available to meet com—
munity needs.

3. Coordination of recreation services is often
not carefully organized and administered.

4. Many community programs lack desired bal-
ance and quality.

5. Girls and women, minority, low income, rural

  
 
       
     

One Man Folds It. One Minute Does It.

The I948 Nissen All—One Trampoline (Reg. U. 5. Pat.

Off.) wheels away to jiffy storage. Write for Free Litera—
ture and Prices on All Trampoline Models.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE CO.
200 A Avenue NW

  
 

Cedar Rapids, Iowa

 

U]

and aged groups are sadly underserved or un—
equally served in many parts of the country.

6. Inadequate financial provision is almost uni-
versal.

7. Increased services are needed for those in
hospitals and institutions.

PRINCIPLES AND RECOMMENDATIONS—Commu-
nities must meet the recreation needs summarized
above. Among other things they should:

I. Provide a wide variety of activities.

2. Provide equal services and facilities to all
geographical areas, for both sexes, for all age
groups and for the different cultural and racial

groups.

3. Conduct activities and operate facilities
throughout the entire year and for the different
periods of free time.

4. Maintain a reasonable balance between in—
door and outdoor activities and between participa-

'tion and passive enjoyment.

5. Make definite provision for group life and for
sufficient individualization of group activities to in-
sure their potential educational value.

6. Provide adequate public and private finances.

7. Have recreation planning bodies related to
the planning for education, welfare and other com-
munity services.

8. Include recreation in all city planning and
use all resources such as schools for recreation.

Recreation agencies, public and voluntary,
should have carefully formulated philosophies of
work, made specific in statements of aims, objec-
tives and goals; use competent, trained and well
paid professional leadership and capable, trained
volunteers; develop public support through care—
fully organized programs of public relations; and
establish definite programs of study and research
to keep abreast of changing needs and conditions.

  

Don’t buy until you see our free. illustrated catalog. Write Today!

FOND DU LAC, WISCONSIN h
MMOSI A um LINV'JRI or Llpn|;tu .-

       

RECREATION

World at 'Play

 

Aim for Better Health—“A Practical Health-

Program for Myself and My Family: Learn What
We Ought to Know—Health Education. Do
What We Ought to Do—Healthful Living.” is this
year’s objective of NATIONAL NEGRO HEALTH
WEEK. The thirty-fourth observance, held April
4-‘1 I, directs attention and interest to the need for
practical application of health information and
healthful habits to the individual and the family in
the home and community. A preliminary Health
Week Bulletin is available to assist community
organizations in the planning of activities for a
successful program. For further information on the
official Health Week publications, day-by-day pro-
gram schedules, the poster contest and other fea-
tures, write National Negro Health Week Com-
mittee, Federal Security Agency, Public Health
Service, Washington 25, D. C. Bibliographies of
resources for health materials available, free of
charge, from National Recreation Association.

Cementing Good Relations—On April 14, the
Pan American Union will be fifty-eight years old.
I This year’s birthday slogan is: “The Americas
Must Serve Mankind.” In conjunction with this
theme, a special committee at the Pan American
Union again has prepared program material that
l is at once informative and entertaining. The re-
sults of its labors are ready for free distribution
in English, Spanish or Portuguese, but a limited

supply deems it necessary that it be sent only to
‘ teachers or adult groups. Material can be obtained
from the Pan American Union, Department of
“'Information, Washington 6, D. C., and the choice

-MARCH 1948

includes a poster emphasizing the slogan, a booklet
on “The Inter-American System,” and program
suggestions for observing the anniversary.

0

Training for Immediate Use — Interesting
recreation leadership training institutes will be '
undertaken by the State College of .Washington at
Pullman and the University of Florida at Gaines-
ville this spring and summer. The University of
Florida’s General Extension Division, under Dean
B. C. Riley, has worked out a schedule of fourteen
three-day institutes in as many Florida commu-
nities to help professional and lay recreation lead-
ers with leadership techniques and program prob-
lems. Mrs. Anne Livingston of the National Rec-
reation Association will conduct the institutes and
Ralph Van Fleet, the Association’s district repre—
sentative, will organize them. The series began at
Pensacola on March 4 and will end at Miami on
April 2I. For further information, send a letter
to Dean Riley.

The State College of Washington is endeavoring
to provide a special early summer training pro-
gram compressed within the six weeks of June
14-July 23. Six separate and distinct one-week
units or courses are to be given during that period,
and students will be able to obtain one hour credit
for each of the six courses. Miss Helen Dauncey
of the National Recreation Association will con-
duct courses in social recreation and playground
activities during the weeks of June 21 and 28.
Other courses will include square and couple danc-
ing, arts and crafts, camping, recreational sports.
For information, write to Dr. Helen S. Smith,
Director of Recreation Institute.

58]

IGHT feel, correct rebound, and triple

wear cannot be produced by ordinary
machinery. So VOIT engineers developed
new machines and techniques. For 25 years
VOIT'S rigid standards and manufacturing
methods have set the pace for the industry.
Every VOIT label assures that extra measure
of excellence to be expected in America‘s
Finest Athletic Equipment.

FROM BALE TO BALL...
VOIT DOES IT ALL!

J{-{’{ {.54 {$444.4 4" {1514.11—
NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, LOS ANGELES 11

/7’g/M’zdv/d 
m/M/ei/fc 

RECREATION

 

Recreation

Helpful hints and bits of information on
this and that. Ways of doing things that
have been proved through experience.

Rambling Theatre

The Oak Ridge Rambling Theatre of Oak Ridge,
Tennessee, (a summer project), was mounted on
a one and one-half ton truck, consisting of the
truck bed, two sides and a tail gate. A piano was
anchored to the floor at the back of the cab, and
furniture and other props needed were borrowed
from the playground where the show was being
presented.

Upon reaching the playground, the sides on the
truck were brought down, thus making a stage
seventeen feet by eleven feet. During -the three
weeks that the theatre was in operation, four dif-
ferent variety shows and two plays were presented
to playground audiences numbering more than
I500 children and adults. Youngsters participated
in the variety shows which featured tap dancers,
skits, comedy acts, and instrument solos.

Unique Apparatus

Jackson Park, Temple, Texas, uses an old army
plane as playground apparatus. The plane has
been made safe for boys and girls to play on by
dismantling it of all of its working parts. Made
of durable material, it should last a long time.
See below:

‘1!!-

.
r w
.’ .
: v "S. ”‘I"‘ i
j - f -
z“:ka ' '
I
l
,

l], “a. M
.4“,
‘1

a j '

l

A spur to the imagination, children fly many miles
on this exceedingly popular piece of equipment.

MARCH 1948

     

Box

 

More About Flag Football

Alhambra, California, has had many requests for
further information regarding Flag Football, fol-
lowing the write-up in the Suggestion Box, No-
vember 1947 RECREATION. Mr. John G. Bucknum,
of Alhambra, therefore passes on the following to
those who may wish to use the game but who have
not written for rules:

Instead of one red flag carried by each player,
we use two white flags, one placed under the play-
ers’ belt on each hip. This gives the defense a fair
opportunity to reach the ball carrier’s flag from
any angle. We find it also ‘removes, to a great
extent, the temptation for the ball carrier to “run
over” the defensive man. Since all of our games
were played at night under lights, the color of the
flags makes quite a difference. We found that
white blends less with the players’ clothing and
gives the defense a better break. No flying blocks

""‘are permitted, thus leading to a screen type of

blocking which removes much of the danger of
injury.

DeSpite the fact that we had two leagues (twelve
teams) playing complete rounds, there were no
tie games, though many scores were 7-6, I 3-12,
and so on. Almost without exception, the games
were evenly contested—with few teams being held
scoreless and with the margin of victory seldom

more than one touchdown. We plan to enlarge
our Flag Football program next fall.

Gee
Next, Recreation Congress '

The 30th National Recreation Congress will
take place at Omaha, Nebraska, September 26 to
October I, 1948. Set aside that date on your cal-
endar NOW. Plan your budget. More informa-
tion will be forthcoming soon.

583

Now Available!

A Guide for Planning Facilities
for Athletics. Recreation. Phys-
ical and Health Education

    
   

     
  

. ‘ \ .- ,- ,
_ . " . i
'\ ’ .
a. h N J": i'l- o.‘ I Ii. 7
vi ..  I _ __ .:_ 1|.
- .' -- .5 a! ' ' '
'\ -'\ _ w . l - ,r
.- 3) \ ~c - : '
a ' " .
~19 5 -. (I _
\-
t a: . ' \ 330‘ - . x
.  5‘
v'. q.
~ » .-'
i.
n w I _ a. " ’
I n'
as i '
I ‘ a. : .
 a:- ' . .
..._ .
a.

  
 

A composite guide of 125 pages developed by 65
authorities in a National Facilities Conference spon-

L1£§3§ ""
: sored by fourteen national agencies and associations.

t ,
- I:-
.L ..-_,4. w-

_ y .. '7 For school superintendents, their boards, park and
-- -  i o 0 recreation leaders, health and physical “education
. t u  A“  '3’ 60:9 administrators and supervisors. architects, engineers.

and other civic and professional leaders interested
for in functional planning of modern facilities.
’ Price $l.§0 postpaid
(Every Sport. Order ham
AvailabIe American Association for Health.
? _ Thru Leading Physical Education.and Recreation
j  Athletic Goods l20l lbth s+.. N.W.. Washington a. D. c.
\ Distributors 01'

The Athletic Institute

W W?  209 South State Streetl Chicago 4. Illinois

1'”: £1.”le IN r”: FIIID I
unnuucwnmc COH'ANY o 8!. IOUIS 3. no.

     

 

1947 American 1947 National
H IL L E R I c H 8. B R A o s B Y c 0. League Batting League Ewing

584 RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EI-ILERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

MARCH 1948

March and April

Houston, Texas A. R. Moser, Superintendent of Recreation

March 15-19

Portland, Oregon
Mardh 29-31; April 5, 6

Eugene, Oregon
April 7-9; 12, 13

Yakima, Washington
April 19-23

Tacoma, Washington
April 27, 28; May 4-6

York, Pennsylvania

Miss Dorothea Lensch, Director of Recreation
Don January, Director of Recreation
Howard Schaub, Director of Physical Education,

Board of Education
Mrs. H. S. Whitman, Council of Social Agencies

Miss Mary Howard, Superintendent of Recreation

March 8-10

Pennsylvania State College Fred Coombs, State College

March 11-13

Richmond, Virginia Harold K. Jack, Supervisor of Health and Physical

March 15-19 Education, Safety and Recreation, State Board of
Education

Pennsylvania W. R. Gordon, in charge of Rural Sociology Exten-

March 22-26

J eHerson County, Kentucky
March 29-April 9 °

sion, Pennsylvania State College, State College

Charles Vettiner, Director, County Playgrounds and
Recreation, Armory Building, Sixth & Walnut Street,
Louisville

Chauncey Barbour, Recreation Department, Fair
Grounds.

Memphis, Tennessee
April 19-23

Chipley, Florida
March 8-10
Tallahassee, Florida
March 11-13

Live Oaks, Florida
March 15-17
Jacksonville, Florida
March 18-20
Lakeland, Florida
March 22-24
Orlando, Florida
March 25-27
Gainesville, Florida
March 29-31

Tampa, Florida
April 5-7

Punta Gorda, Florida
April 8-10

Fort Pierce, Florida
April 12-14

West Palm Beach, Florida
April 15—17 ,
Miami, Florida
April 19-21

Albany, New York
March 15-19

Miami, Florida

l

Dean B. C. Riley, University of Florida, Gainesville

Miss Kathryn Carmichael, Council of Social Agencies,
90 State Street

Pete Roberts, Superintendent of Recreation, Miami

April 5-16

Miami Beach, Florida B. B. Wheeler, Superintendent of Public Recreation,
April 5-16 Miami Beach

Pittslield, Massachusetts Mrs. Corinne Conte, Supervisor of Girls, 52 School
April 26-May 7 Street

Blackstone, Virginia '

March 8-12 .

Rust‘burg, Virginia Lorenzo C. White, Hampton Institute, Hampton, Vir-
March 15-19 ginia

Gloucester, Virginia

March 22-26 ‘

New Haven, Connecticut Norman Watts, Director, Dixwell Community House,
April 5-16 98 Dixwell Avenue

585

 

VACATION IN THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST
and learn while you play

INSTITUTE IN
RECREATION SKILLS
AND LEADERSHH’

FOR MEN AND WOMEN

OUTSTANDING AUTHORITIES such as Her'b Gregger-
son, El Paso, Texas; Helen M. Dauncey, National
Recreation Association; Lester Griswold, Colorado
Springs, Colorado; H. B. Hunsaker, Utah State
Agricultural College; and Roger Larson, The State
College of Washington—"will offer instruction in
the following courses:

Square Dancing, Social Recreation,
Playground Activities, Arts and Crafts,

Camping, Recreational Sports

Six one-week courses. You may enroll for one or as
many as you like. A new course each week in order
named above, first course beginning June 14th.

G-I Rights Eligible Courses With or Without Credit
Classes will be limited

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS, WRITE
DR. HELEN G. SMITH, Director of Recreation Institute

THE STATE COLLEGE OF WASHINGTON

Pullman, Washington

 

WANTED

 

Graduate. registered occupational
therapists and trained recreation
workers tOr assignments in Illinois
state psychiatric hospitals. schools
for mental defectives. children's
and correctional institutions. Civil
service positions. good salaries. op-
portunity for advancement. excel-_
lent retirement and insurance plan.
maintenance available.

Write:

Division of Personnel Service

Department of Public'Welfare
State Armory

Springfield. Illinois

580

 

Elmer G. Vordenherg

LMER G. VORDENBERG, seventy-one, died Jan-
E uary 22, 1948, in Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Vor—
denberg will be remembered by his many friends
as a hard, conscientious worker in behalf of public
recreation for all. His fourteen years of service ‘
with the National Recreation Association began
during World War I. He established a reputation .
for doing outstanding work in providing recrea-
tion for servicemen.

On the great occasion.of the visit of the United
States naval fleet to New York in 1930, Mr. Vor-
denberg was selected by the Mayor’s Committee
of New York to work out much of the detail in
connection with the program designed to meet the
needs of the men in their free time. One of his
prized possessions was a letter written during the
fleet’s visit by the Chief of the Bureau of Naviga-
tion, commenting on the program.

The letter said, in part: “The program is so
comprehensive and so compact that it is particu-
larly satisfactory. There is a strong feeling in the
fleet that never before has a program so varied
and generous, and yet so well-balanced, been ar-
ranged on’ the occasion of the fieet’s visit. To map
and to carry through so successfully such a pro-
gram is a task of great magnitude, requiring much
perseverance and no end of work. Your name
has been given me as that of one individual who
initiated the program and whose hard work was
largely responsible for its emphatic success. I
wish, therefore, to send you this expression of the
appreciation of the Bureau of Navigation for the
splendid program prepared by the Mayor’s Com-
mittee of the City of New York, and in particular,
for your own plans and work in behalf of the offi- I
cers and men of the United States fleet.”

In recent years, 'Mr. Vordenberg gave much of
his time to recreation matters in, and near, his
home city of Cincinnati.

Attention Craft Instructors

Try our simple leather crafts proiects. espe-
cially intended for vocational training schools.
occupational therapy departments'of hospi-

tals. recreation centers. summer camps. Boy
Scouts. Girl Scouts and Y.M.C.A._camps.
Drop us a card requesting our latest booklet.

AUBURN LEATHER PRODUCTS

25 PAUL STREET AUBURN. N. Y.

RECREATION

State Recreation News Notes

9

ABULLETIN HAS BEEN issued by the Federal
Inter—Agency Committee on Recreation which
summarizes information on cooperation of state
recreation agencies in twenty-one states. Based on
letters from governors, state officials and other
sources, the bulletin reports that State Inter-
Agency Committees on Recreation have been
formed in Arkansas, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan,
Missouri, Tennessee and Texas. The bulletin
gives names and addresses of officers of these
committees and names and addresses of officers
and officials of California, North Carolina and
Vermont Recreation Commissions and Boards,
and of the Indiana and l\"linnesota Advisory Recre-
ation Committees. There are also brief reports of
cooperative activities among state agencies in Ala-
bama, Colorado, Maryland, Montana, Nevada,
New Jersey, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Copies of this bulletin can be obtained from George

' Attract more bathers-bring them back more
giteré—iytitl; a pool that is glaglsd clean and sparkling. You
an o 1 I you paint wit UC (pronounced RAE"-
MOCK). RAMUC is -a special long-lasting, waterproof
enamel that gives a gleaming, tile-like finish‘ to concrete
surfaces. RAMUC will not peel. powder, blister or flake
off. It 5 easy to clean and holds its color under: the strong-
est sun. No need to relinish your pool every season, either-
——'bccause RAMUC stays fresh and bright for years!

Keep water clean, tool

You can also eliminate algae in your pool with Inertol’s
fast-acting new product: EXALGAE. EXALGAE makes
unsughtly growth disappear instantly and prevents its
further development. Absolutely colorless; it will not. stain
pool finish or harm bathers’ skin or eyes.

Make your pool cleaner AND more profitable with
economical RAMUC and EXALGAE. For full informa-
tion on pool maintenance, write for Inertol’s “Swimming
Pool Handbook.” Ramuc—Exalgae, Reg. U. 8. Pat. Oil.

INER'I'OI. CO... INC.

470 Frel'mghuysen Avenue I9 South Park
Newark 5, N. J. San Francisco 7. Calif.

MARCH 1948

E. Dickie, Executive Secretary of the Committee,
Interior Building, Washington .35, D. C.
* * *

According to tabulations just completed by the
Fish and \Vildlife Service for the year ending June
30, 1947, the number of hunting licenses sold in
the various states totaled 12,066,”63, producing a
gross revenue of $28, 5 58,447. These are the high-
est totals which have ever been recorded. Michi—
gan was the only state to have more than a million
resident hunters. Colorado headed the list of states
attracting non-resident hunters with 116,147.
Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Michigan, New
York, Washington, California and Colorado each
received over a million dollars in revenue. In total
number of licenses sold, Michigan continued to
head the list. Other leaders were Pennsylvania,
New York, Ohio, Minnesota, Colorado, VVashing—
ton and Wisconsin.

In every field oi sport in Protes-
sional, Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
bal and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MeeGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognised as a hall.
mark of quality- and unvarying
performance.

I 4|.
led-eels! II II: rlsu 'Oe-t
nl III .ul 'II'. -1 I In-

  .7216. :::':';:.-.';:.:'..~'.' ‘ 

CINCINNATI l4. OHIO. II. S. A

It

 

587

   

wurronrrn

 

588

Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

climbing structure

There are scores of reasons why thou-
sands of jUNGLEGYMS are in daily
use from coast to coast. Leading
authorities point again and again to
JUNGLEGYM’S safety record of one
hundred million child-play-hours
without a single serious accident . . .
no-maintenance record, because there
are no moving parts, nothing to wear

out . . . popularity record, because
JUNGLEGYM affords endless oppor-

tunities for imaginative play and“

beneficial exercise. Yes, it’s true! “No
playground is complete without a

JUNGLEGYM.”

no other playground device can compare . ..

no other climbing structure is a JUNGLEGYM!

IMMEDIATE DELIVERY

OTTAWA.

CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

 

Have you a playground to equip? To
bring up-to-date? Porter’s 1948
streamlined line offers the basic units
you need . . . with three big advan-
tages (1) Immediate Delivery,
(2) Highest Quality, (3) Lowest
Prices.

Write for illustrated bulletin on Porter's
T948 streamlined line that will save you
money . . . time!

Exclusive makers of the world-famous IUNGLEGYM climbing structure

RECREATION

Authors in This Issue . . .

MURIEL W. EDGERTON—tLibrary and research
service, National Recreation Association. Poem

on page 555.

D I A  N D r BERNARD J. O'SHEA —- Executive Secretary,

5 U P E R R I N c E R Board of Directors, Catholic Youth Organization,

New York. Article on page 556.

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals

ROBERT HUTCHINGs-m—Of' the advertising firm
of J. Walter Thompson, New York, Mr. Hutch-

and for amateurs who know the value of a ings—always interested in promoting recreation
gOOd Sh“?- . interests—was director of publicity and public re-
Diamond Pnching Horseshoe Cum,“ latlons at the 29th. Recreatlon Congress, on a
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes volunteer ba31s. Artlcle on page 559.
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes .
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes \IIRGINIA MUSSELMAN~—Consultat10n and.Cor-
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes ' ' '.
Diamond 5mm and omcial respondence Bureau, Natlonal Recreatlon Assoc1
Horseshoe Courts atlon. Article on page 

D I A  o N D c A L K NATHAN L. MALLIsoN—Superintendent of Rec-
"0  A  reation, Jacksonville, Florida. Article on page 572.

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

7* YOUR cow J3”. Pearson;
N  ‘ newly revised Catalogue No. 21 for 1948 is packed

with illustrations and specifications of the finest tackle
and the greatest variety of archery equipment and acces-
sories ever to be listed between two covers. ,Ask for it
at your local Ben Pearson Dealer. Or, if you don’t know
the name of the Ben Pearson dealer in your community,
fill in the coupon below and your free copy will be
mailed to you. See your Ben Pearson dealer regularly I,
for your archery requirements. GET YOUR BEN
PEARSON CATALOGUE TODAY. ~

earnestness = =»-—
INCRORPORATED

PINE BLUFF, ARKANSAS

vvvvvvvvvvUUUUUUUVUUUUVUUUUUUUV—vv

BEN PEARSON, INC.
Pine Bluff, Arkansas

Please send me your new 1948 catalogue, No. 21.
My favorite local sporting goods dealer is

------“---m.---‘.‘

(write in name of your dealer)
MY NAME__.______.___.«______._.__.
ADDRESS...___________-
CITY__________._________STATE_._._____

“‘-‘-“--“‘-““--“““-“--nA“

MARCH 1948- . 589

 

vvvvv-v-wwwvvvv'vvv

There’s one IOU-proof way to guard your door
against this fellow’s visit.

There’s wolf poison in every U. S. Savings
Bond you buy. There’s sweet security, too—
for your home, your family and yourself.

U. S. Savings Bonds are 100% guaranteed
by Uncle Sam. They pay you $4 for every $3
you put in, after 10 years.

Think of this profitable saving in terms of
future comforts and luxuries. Think of the ad-
vantages it will mean for your children as they

grow up.
Think. THINK. THINK.

Then start saving right away—today! Start
saving automatically this sure, convenient way.
If you work for wages or salary, enroll in the
Payroll Savings Plan — the only installment
buying plan.

If you’re not eligible for this plan—if you’re
in business but not on a payroll—ask your
bank about the equally practical Bond-A-
Month Plan.

REMEMBER—U. S. Savings Bonds are
poison to wolves!

[(3%

 

Automafio saving is sure saving— U. 3. Savings Bonds.

Contributed by this magazine in co-operafion
wifh fhe Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

500 RECREATION

   

Books Received

American Way in Community Life, The, :by Samuel Stein-
berg and Daniel C. Knowlton. l). C. Heath and
Company, Boston, Massachusetts. $1.92.

. . . And Promenade All . . ., 'by Helen and Larry Eisen-
herg. Published by the authors, 2403 Branch Street,
Nashville, Tennessee. $.50.

Basketball Illustrated, by Howard A. Hobson. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $1.50.

Camping Can Be Fun, by Robert W. \Veaver and An-
thony F. Merrill. Harper and Brothers, New York.

$3.00.

Conscience on Stage, ‘by Harold Ehrensperger. Ahingdon-
$Celia-Shiny, New York and Nashville, Tennessee.
2. .
(food Times in the Rural Church, by Edward L. Schling-
man. The Christian Education Press, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. $1.25.

Rae Plays the Game, Iby Josephine Blackstock. G. P.
Putnam’s Sons, New York. $2.50.

Sing W ell—Speak Well, by J. Albert F racht and Emmett
Robinson. Remsen Press Division, Brooklyn, New
York. $3.75. '

Town and Country Games, by Robert North. Thomas Y.
Crowell Company, New York. $2.50.

Treasury of Religious Plays, selected by Thelma Brown.
Association Press, New York. $3.00.

Trip Camp Book, The. Girl Scouts, National Organiza-
tion, New York. $.75.

Weekly Reader Parade, The. Simon and Schuster, Inc.,
New York. $1.50.

W W13

RECREATION

THROUGH .3

OMPETITION

A Handbook for Coordinating

Community Sports Programs
ERNEST L. DAMKROGER

This book will find its place in the recreational movement
at America. Practical and usable, it can be adapted to
a program far a large city as readily as to a small village.

 

WW9

n

The recfeatianal program outlined here is based on a
definite philosophy of recreation: that every man and boy
in the community, unless suffering fram some real physi—
cal handicap, should be a participant in various forms of
competitive sports; that this competition should be based
on the idea of giving everyone the appartunity of express—
ing himself in campetitian against thase of equal physical
development and skills.

"Since a large portion of the activities on the playgrounds
of our country are competitive in nature, this book fur-
nishes a practical plan for developing a worthwhile pro-
gram suitable to the needs of any community in America.
'I heartily recommend it to all workers in the held of rec-
reation."—Charles W. Davis, Director of Recreation, City
of Berkeley, California.

“I heartily endorse RECREATION THROUGH COMPETITION as
a guide in setting up an adequate community sports pro-
gram, an American pattern, suitable for today's needs.
The book should be on the shelf of every recreation leader
in America.”-—-—Commander Glenn W. Harme-

son. Navy Recreation Officer, now football 2 so
coach at Wabash College. 5‘ '

WWWMMWMMW
(if WWWWWMMWW

X
k
b.
b.
%

We jssocialion [9
347 Madison Avenue New York l7. N. Y.

This pOpular ball resists the wear and tear of every kind of rough surface. It combines
quality with economy for t0p performance. r r r The patented cover formula and processing
adds years to its life. Another “Best by Test” reason for specifying Wintark. Official in
weight, shape and size—it has beauty and balance. A TOP PERFORMER in play and economy.

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

/

AMERICA'S FOREMOST ATHLETlC EQUlPMENT

   c0. P.O. BOX 71-SOUTH FIFTH STREET-SHAMOKIN, PA.

MARCH 1948

 

591

 

 ....,.;.. AMERICAN mum

Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

' / . /
 421 “ti/0716’ WW 5074

I!

AMERICAN’S REPUTATION for Building the

Finest Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment
has its disadvantages these days. More customers than
ever are placing their confidence in American, while .
top grade materials remain extremely difficult to obtain.

To keep faith with our customers, however, we cannot

compromise 011 materials or construction; for, we regard 1
equipment durability and the safety of your children as l

our prime responsibility.

AR‘IERICAN APPROVED Playground and Swim- l
ming Pool Equipment is built to our rigid pre-war
standards of quality, yet sells for only 17% more than

our low, nationally advertised 1941 prices. This means
slower shipments, of course, for which we are genuinely
sorry; but, you will like us much better five or ten or
twenty years from now, when inferior, substitute-built
apparatus has had to be scrapped and your honestly-

built American Equipment still pays you dividends on

your wise investment.

‘k x’ * WRITE TODAY, please, for Catalogs and descrip-
tive Literature. See why AMERICAN has led the field for more
than thirty-seven years, why American Approved Equipment

outperforms all others.

     

g AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE (30., ANDERSON, INDIANA

World’s Largest Exclusive Blanufacturers of Fine Outdoor
Playground, Swimming Pool and Home Play Equipment

    
 

 
 
  

592 RECREATION

 

More
Play Facilities

 FOLLOWING EDITORIAL appeared in the
December I7, 1947 issue of the Akron Beacon
Journal :

Food for Spirit

This is an advertisement for an advertisement.
We urge every parent to read the life insurance
company’s ad on page twenty-live of Monday’s
Beacon Journal.

It tells the story of a delinquent boy and parents
who failed to include him in their financial budget.
They made prOvision for his food and clothing,
and his education. But they neglected to provide
for his free time. They “couldn’t afford” to spend
anything for his hobbies or his games.

“Set aside money for these,” the advertisement
urges, “as you would money for your children’s

food—in fact, they are food for the heart and
spirit.”

Juvenile delinquents aren’t made on street cor—
ners and dives. They’re made in homes, where

parents “can’t afford” to spend money or time to
build their children’s character.

We urge every parent to read this ad. Then

honestly answer this question: “Am I doing
enough for MY children?”

An honest answer and an honest effort will do
much to check juvenile delinquency.

Preliminary nation—wide surveys for the year
1947 indicate that because of the increase in the
high cost of living, the average family spent less
money on recreation. Crime among youth is re—
ported to be on the increase. These facts present
a challenge to all youth serving agencies to in-
crease the scope of their programs for constructive
recreation opportunities for the fun, health and
safety of boys and girls. More recreation facilities
should be made available to supplement over-
crowded playgrounds.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Are you a delinquent parent?
A delinquent community? Let’s take stock of
ourselves!

MARCH 1948

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles of 1

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Parks and Recreation, November 1947
Florida’s State Parks, Lewis G. Scoggin
Modern Trends in Legislation and Administration,
George Hjelte
A Promotion Plan for Parks, Mrs. Max B. Kannow-

ski
Maintenance Mart—New Plan for Permanent Park
Signs

NEA Journal, November 1947

Producing Plays with Teen Agers, Nancy O’Neill
The Pollution Pendulum, E. Laurence Palmer

National Parent-Teacher, November 1947
The Way of a Child with Books, James Gray

Behavior and Attitude Guidance in Boys’ Clubs, Boys’

Clubs of America, 381 Fourth Avenue, New York 16.
New York.

Survey Manual, Clifford M. Carey and LBSIie  Tomp-
kins, Young Men’s Christian Association, Association
Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.
Price $1.50

Board and Committee Service in the Y.M.C.A., Leslie 

Tompkins, Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue,
New YOrk 17, N. Y. Price $1.00

Recreation for All, A Handbook for Leaders in Commu-

nity and County-\Vide Recreation, Division of Recrea-
tion, Department of Conservation, New State Office
Building, Frankfort, Kentucky. September 1947

Public Management, November 1947

Highlights of the City Managers’ Conference
Some New State Laws Affecting Cities, John C.
Crowley

Safety Education, December 1947
Safety in the Gymnasium

Journal of Health and Physical Education, November 1947
Folk Dancing in the High School, Fred W. Franz
The Vulnerable Age, C. L. Lowman
Ice Skating in a Physical Education Curriculum,

Nancy E. Houston

Parents’ Magazine, December 1947

Open the School Door on Saturday, Harriet Eager
Davis

American City, November 1947
Play’s the Thin-g Again, Ronald D. Crater

Bulletin of the American Library Association, November
1947

The Preschool Story Hour, Ethel C. Karrick

Youth Leaders’ Digest, December 1947
Of Questionable Value. Editorial

Camping Magazine, December 1947
A Bid for Major Camping, Calvin Rutstrum
Blueprint for Better Building, Bradford G. Sears
“La Theme du Camp,” Esther Edwards

Sailing Can Be Safe, Reid Besserer

National Parent-Teacher, December 1947
The Magic Called Music, Augustus D. Zanzig

Health and Physical Education, December 1947
Beyond the Wheelchair,'LeonOre B. Cox
New Horizons in Health, Physical Education and
Recreation, Joseph B. Wolfe, M.D.
How We Do It

Beach and Pool, November 1947

A Review of Swimming Pool Regulations
Organizing and Producing an Aquatic Pageant, Lil-

_ Iian A. C. Burke
Parks and Recreation, December 1947
Maintenance Mart

593

 

Problems of Child Delinquency

Maud A. Merrill. Houghton Mifflin Company,
Boston, Massachusetts. $3.50. '

DR; MERRILL, PROFESSOR Of Psychology at Stan-

ford University, has written a careful and
helpful analysis of the delinquent child. She offers
no panacea for the prevention or cure of delin-
quency, but attempts to enumerate and evaluate
the various factors which must be considered. She
emphasizes the important part the characteristics
Of the individual child play in its delinquent ac-
tions. Recreation and play are considered, and
stress laid on the value of play as an important
cOmpensatory function for some Of the thwarted
motives of children, particularly in the younger
years, and its value in releasing tensions that arise
in conflict situations. Dr. Merrill’s original con-
tributions are based on a five year study of cases
which passed through a county juvenile court, a
five year follow-up of these cases, and a control
group of the same number. In spite Of all the dis—
heartening experiences in dealing with delin-
quency, Dr. Merrill is optimistic in her summary.
“We can say, at least, in defense of children who
have been delinquent that, either because Of our
treatment or in spite of it, eighty-two percent in
our group have been found to be fair or better
than fair in their adjustment five years later.”
Although the material in this book is not sensa-
tional, it is well-balanced and should be helpful to
all who are working with children, the non-delin-
quent as well as the delinquent.

Folk Dances for All

Michael Herman. Barnes and Noble, New York.
$1.00.

N EXCELLENT COLLECTION of community dances
from fifteen different countries, with illustra-
tions, music, background notes and full directions,
this little book has been put out as one of the

594

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

Every Day Handbook Series. The dances are col-
orful and gay, require no special skills, and are
offered for community participation rather than
for presentation to audiences. The use Of folk
dances of other countries can bring contributions
Of good fellowship, goodwill and the richness of
cultural heritage to both the participant and the
community.

Marinas

Supplement, 1947. Charles A. Chaney. National
Association of Engine and Boat Manufacturers,

Incorporated, 420 Lexington Avenue, New
York 17, New York.

THIS VERY USEFUL manual is a supplement to an

engineering handbook published in 1939 and
prepared by the same author. It brings up—to—date
developments in all phases of the design, construc-
tion and maintenance of waterfront facilities. The
chapter headings indicate the wide scope of the
book. They are: Preliminary Studies, Materials,
Bulkhead \Nalls, Piers and Walks, Floating
Equipment, Boat Handling Equipment, Break-
waters, Buildings, Utilities and Accessories, Man-
agement and Financial. Copies of this supplement
are available, without cost, to civilian and govern-
ment engineers, Federal, state, county and munici-
pal ofhcers, and clubs and private groups inter-
ested in marina constructions.

Adventures in Scrap Crafts

Michael C. Dark. Greenberg: Publisher, New
York. $4.00. '

CREATING SOMETHING WORTHWHILE out of
practically nothing is an exciting art. This
three hundred seventy-five page book, with illus-
trations and helpful charts, is a “find” indeed! It
delves into every phase Of scrap craft, including
types of materials and where to'get them, tools
and techniques of working with various materials,
and explicit, step—by-step directions for each
Of these inexpensive projects.

RECREATION

Group Experience

' and Democratic Values

Grace L. Coyle. The Woman’s Press, New York.
$13-75-

“MUCH OF THE quality of any civilization Ob-

viously expresses itself in the way it uses
its leisure time and its human resources.” Thus
writes Dr. Coyle, who is professor Of group work
in the School of Applied Social Sciences Of West-
ern Reserve University—and past president of
the National Conference of Social Work and Of
the American Association of Social Workers. In
her chapter on recreation, she says, “The Oppor-
tunity for friendship, for the stimulating interplay
Of congenial spirits, for the creative expression of
powers, for the personal security and expansion
Of ego that arise out Of belonging tO a group—it
is these and similar elements which make the
group worker give pre-eminence t0 the aspect of
human relations in the provision Of recreation.”
The book is divided into three parts: 1) Leader-
ship in Voluntary Associations; 2) Group \Vork
in Recreation—Education Agencies; 3) Social

ork and Social Action.

Equipment

NEw AND COMPLETE manual ——Floodlighting
Plans for Sports and Recreations—which has
een put out by the Illuminating Laboratory Of
eneral Electric Company in Schenectady, pre-
ents up-tO-date lighting plans for: model commu-
ity recreation centers; archery ranges; badminton
ourts; ball fields and $0 on. Write above address.

A

Officers and Directors Of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

' ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President .

- MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

I SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer
GUSTAvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTOR'S

| F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

1 ROBERT.GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRs. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H. '
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E .MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

l J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

,-

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RCH 1948

$9000 A YEAR?

 

INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK

NAM

ADDRES S

CITY

WANT-TO EARN

  

Would you like to be your own
boss . . . with professional
standing in your community?
Then you’ll be interested in
the Opportunities offered by a
career in life insurance selling
for The Mutual Life. Many" Of
our representatives earn $4,000
to $9,000 a year, and more!

We invite you to send for
our Aptitude Test, which pre-
determines your chances for
success in this field. After tak-
ing the test, you’ll hear from
our manager in or near your
community. If you can qualify,
we Offer a 3-year on-the-job
training course, with a special
income plan to help you be-
come established. After that,
the Mutual Lifetime Plan pro-
vides an Opportunity for earn-
ings limited only by your own
efforts . . . plus a liberal retire-
ment income at 65. Mail the
coupon today!

'I'HE MUTUAL lIFE

34 Nassau Street Alexander E. Patterson
New York 5. N.Y. President
FIRST IN AMERICA

PLEASE SEND APTITUDE TEST

 

 

Now Available I

Congress Proceedings

$2.25

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

 

595

