K
Henry Pfeiiiér Li hr ; Ty

MmoMurray Calla».
Jacksonville, 111m ._

 
 
 
   

‘ALl

Contents

 

August 1948

America Has a Song, (Editorial)

by Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193

Recreation Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195

Good Sailingl, by Rosemary and

Steever Oldden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196
Sea Magic, by Muriel W. Edgerton . . . . . 198
Families at Play, by John S. Nagy . . . . . . 199

Standards for Municipal Recreation

Areas, Part II, by George D. Butler. . 208
Tentative Outline—30th National

Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2I4
Arizona Gold, by Cedric Austin . . . . . . . 215
Uptown, Downtown, Crosstown,

by Harriet Batt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218
Food With That Picnic Flavor,

by Clark L. Fredrikson . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Father of Philadelphia Recreation

(Otto T. Mallery) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 223
Recreation in the News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
Junior Red Cross Helps Build Home

Unity, by Samuel Everett . . . . . . . . . . 225
Day Camping in Michigan,

by E. V. Blohm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 229
A Music Center—and How It Grew,

by C. A. Emmons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233
A Dance Federation Is Formed,

by Walter Grothe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 234

Rumpus Ranges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 236
Emergency! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 237

Creative Activities
The Arts Take Over . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 201

Hobbies

Made-to-Order Quizzes, by Irene Scott 203
Collectanea, by Anita Mohwinkel. . . . 205

Along the Handcraft Trail,
by Bill Sharpe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206

Theatre Make-Up, by J. P. Milhous. . . . 232

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 228

Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . . . 231

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 239

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: Massie—Missouri Re-
sources Division for the photograph, page 194; Recreation
Department, Cleveland, Ohio, pages 199, 200; Hemmer—
Raleigh, North Carolina, State News Bureau, pages 206, 207;
Department of Public Recreation, Reading, Pennsylvania, for
center picture, page 208; Chicago Park District, pages 220,
229; Tufts College, Mcdford, I‘Iassachusetts, page 221; New
York City Department of Parks, page 235.

ON THE COVER: Cooling as lemonade on a blistering August
day is our sailboat, photographed by Ewing Galloway, of New
York City.

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.; is on tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-

class matter June 12, 1928, at the Post Office in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1948, by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-TWO. NUMBER FIVE PRICE 35 CENTS

 

Recreation

August 1948

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

America Has a Song

HE UNITEIS STATES needs a definite, central,
Tchallenging idea if it is to help the world in this
crisis. As Raymond F osdick has pointed out, Amer-
ican dollars are not enough.

The United States has made a definite world con-
tribution in the community-life centers—which have
been known as recreation centers.

Men and women in Russia have to a certain
extent rallied to the Soviet Government because they
have been persuaded that there was a positive, con-
structive idea of helping the pe0ple.

Bread alone is not enough. People want happi-
ness. The United States has in its fundamental
charter the basic idea of seeking happiness for all
its people—“life, liberty and the pursuit of happi-
ness.”

The people in American cities in their referen-
dums for forty years have been voting millions of
their own tax funds for neighborhood recreation
centers where music, drama, art, sport, athletics
should reign—not under imposition from without
but coming up from the people themselves.

What is more truly characteristic of America and
the American people than this deep desire that hap-
piness in America should be shared by all, that all
the peoplepof all ages should truly live all the time?

These centers of living and of culture have cost
billions of dollars of the people’s own money and
have come out of the people’s own desires and own
efforts and own votes.

These centers of culture and strength and joy
have not come in the United States as in Germany

and Italy from the desire of the central government
military leaders to build men and women strong for
war fighters. They have come because the people
here have said to themselves: we do not want to
wait until another world for happiness, to wait until
another world to live fully; we want to live while we
work right here in this world, here and now, and
we can provide life centers for ourselves.

Ought there not to be a book to be shared with
the people of other countries, a book about the
song of America—showing children at play on their
playgrounds, showing the wading pools, the swim-
ming pools, the baseball fields, the ice skating ponds,
the parks, the yacht basins, the nature trails, the
music centers, the drama centers, the people ex-
pressing themselves in the various art centers, show-
ing the joy neighbors have in working together in
the neighborhood recreation centers in giving serv-
ice to all the people of the neighborhood, the way
in which neighbors seek and find comradeship in
play and service together?

No other country could show more in pictures
in a book of this type than the United States—a
whole people on their own, working out their own
strength and joy in daily living.

America has a song of happy, strong daily living
to share with all the people of the world. Thus far
we have let the people of the world think of us as
seeking the almighty dollar. We have not shown
them clearly what we the American people have
done to build daily living and joy for us all.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

193

AMERICA HAS A SONG TO SHARE

 

RECREATION

_ OMM/Lw/Lié

LETTERS TO AND FROM THE EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT

TO RECREATION :

“May I particularly commend you on the recent
article which gave a cross section summary of the
salary levels of recreation leadership across the
country. Also, may I say you meet a very moot
need in the training of leadership for recreation
by supplying the new series of articles entitled
The Story of American Cities in Recreation. This
is an excellent idea.”

CHARLES F. W ECKWORTH, Director of
Recreation and Camping, Springfield
College, Springfield, Massachusetts

“Please accept my congratulations for the human
interest stories in the March and April issues of
RECREATION. . . . The personal history stories
on recreation leaders were very good and are in-
spiring to the new workers in the recreation pro-
fession . . .”

A. E. GENTER, Superintendent
of Recreation, Akron, Ohio

“May I congratulate you upon the proposed
new series entitled The Story of American Cities
in Recreation. This has a lot of possibilities and
will be invaluable to other members of the pro—
fession.

“. . . There is only one thing that would improve
this series. Perhaps it should be another series
within itself . . . by having a few people, who are
participants in these programs, write a brief state-
ment of what their part of the program means
to them. Perhaps you can run another series or a
separate article side by side with the factual article.

“This material will be invaluable in our recre—
ation major courses.”

H. G. DANFORD, Director of Physi-
cal Edncation, Florida State U niver-
sity, Tallahassee, Florida

AUGUST 1948

TO OUR READERS AND CONTRIBUTORS:

Encouraged by your interest and helpful com-
ments, we should like to bring several of the maga-
zine projects to your attention as being largely
dependent upon your continuing cooperation.

SOCIAL RECREATION. We would appreciate
your sending us a selection of two or three of
the very best games or stunts which you use in
social recreation. (See The Postman Brings,
RECREATION, December 1947. We have had no
response to this suggestion.)

RECREATION SUGGESTION BOX. This depart-
ment was suggested by NRA District Representa-
tives as an “exchange” page. “Helpful hints” seem
to be at a premium. Shall we continue this page?

SPECIFIC PHOTOGRAPHS. W'e particularly need
good pictures of: square dancing, recreation with
elderly groups, creative activities, winter sports.

In addition, we are stressing an appeal for any
photographs in clear, contrasting blacks and
whites, which might be possibilities for use on
the new cover of the magazine. Such photographs
should have a light area in the upper left hand
corner to accommodate title; they need not include
human figures but should have good composition.
They can be seasonal, scenic, action, or merely
decorative.

SPECIFIC WRITTEN MATERIALS. We are look-
ing for good articles, including how-to-do infor-
mation, on: new and practical crafts projects;
drama in the recreation program; work with
women and girls; program with elderly groups;
individual hobbies and recreation interests; art in
recreation—painting, sculptoring, creative writing
projects, original poetry.

For suggestions on submitting material .for
publication, see the Recreation Suggestion Box, on
page 231 of this issue.

195

 

HY DO MEN go sailing? Why do men,

women, and children, too, leave home on
Sundays, week-ends, or vacations, preferring the
apparent lack of comfort aboard their boats to the
modern conveniences of their homes? Why do
they love their boats and give them the status of
an individual? Why do they take pleasure in put-
tering their spare hours away to condition their
boats for a comparatively short sailing season?
\Vhy do they dream always of the perfect boat?
Why are there no retired sailors as there are re-
tired football players, baseball players, and retired
players in other sports?

There is no one answer to all the why’s, but per-
haps if we linger a bit on _the joys, the satisfac-
tions, and the pleasures of sailing, you’ll know why
people want to go sailing, why you want to go
sailing too.

Sailing is a sport in that it is an active diversion
from our everyday, civilized living. However, it
is not a sport in the same sense that football, base—
ball, golf, and other activities are sports. These
games are symbolic of man’s tight for survival.
Sailing is not symbolic, but reality itself. Rules
are made by the boat, the elements, and the skip-
per’s judgment. Each time that you go sailing,
you are on your own with the water, the weather,
and the wind. All of your instincts for knowing,
combating, or using these elements are called to
the fore and revitalized.

It isn’t a vicarious thrill to be confronted by a
squall blowing you offshore in a small boat or
onshore in a large boat. It is very real, and when,
by virtue of your ability, knowledge, courage, and
endurance, you extricate yourself ably and well,
this is a joy and a satisfaction, and no award by
anyone could possibly make you prouder than
you already are.

We are a civilized people and we are very proud

196

Good Sailing! *

Rosemary and Steever Oldden

of our civilization. We are proud of our bathtubs,
automobiles, radios, washing machines, automatic
refrigerators, telephones, and all the comforts of
civilization, and yet, at the same time, we know
that we are being robbed of many instincts by our
dependence upon these comforts. Sailing gives us
back this part of ourselves which is lost in civ—
ilized living. This is the satisfaction of relating
directly to the earth, the water, and the universe
around us.

In our unceasing efforts to dominate nature and
create an environment controlled by push buttons,
we lose sight of the fact that we are building up
terrihc tensions within ourselves. Satisfaction of
individual independence and achievement is hard
to come by in this modern age of interdependence.
Sailing gives us independence primarily because,
once away from land, we are for the time an inde-
pendent mobile unit. There are no repair shops or
technical experts at sea. You are your own repair
shop, weather forecaster, aerodynamic expert,
navigator, and everything else that might possibly
be required.

Self-reliance is a satisfaction and joy in itself
and has no need for any acclamation. One knows
well those few times when the chips were really
down and a man proved his ability to live with
the elements without the assistance of any of the
modern gadgets of civilization. It is acclamation
enough to prove one’s fundamental independence.

There is satisfaction in the exercising of our
pioneering instincts, and sailing a small boat offers
exploration and adventure. The stretch of water
off your bow will lead you to who—knows-what
new places, not marked off by neat Department of
Highway signs. Perhaps just around the next
point of land there are stretches of beach and

 

*Reprin’red from The Sailing Primer by ROsemary and Steever
Oldden. Copyright, 1946, by Cornell Maritime Press, New York.

RECREATION

coves where no promoter has yet built a road with
a juke box at the end. With a small boat, you
can put up your sails and go searching for these
rare spots.

There is pleasure in escaping the mad week—end
confusion of automobiles, and you’ll find a small
boat much safer than our highways. If there is
a popular beach or other attraction on the far side
of your bay or lake, it is a much more enjoyable
journey if you can put up your sails and be on
your way in peace and quietude rather than endure
the harrowing experience of week—end traffic.

How few of us who live in cities and towns,
surrounded at night by the glare of street lights
and neon signs, have really felt the steady, eternal
drift of stars across the night sky. We know the
moon as an object of emotion, celebrated by lovers
and song writers, and yet it is constantly pulling
upon the waters of the earth, causing daily tides
of tremendous power. Listen to the flow of the
tide past your boat when you are anchored some
quiet night in a secluded cove and you will have
a new respect for the moon. Learn a bit about
navigation, how the stars function as signposts for
the navigator, and these heavenly bodies will have
a new significance.

There is joy ‘in week-end sailing—that short
time in which we must clear our minds and rest
our bodies in order to function on our job for
another week. When you are thoroughly tired of
shouting above the noise of typewriters, motors,
radios, and traffic, put up your sails and voyage
to some quiet anchorage. Sleep in your boat.
You’ll have a new conception of sleep when your
boat is your gently rocking and murmuring cradle.
Shattered nerves will be restored, you’ll be rested
and relaxed and, with a feeling of well-being, the
new week can be started.

AUGUST 1948

There’s joy in the satisfaction of our competitive
instincts—the pitting of our skill and knowledge
against the skill and knowledge of others. In small
class boat racing, the ability, knowledge, and cour-
age of the skipper win the races. Visualize twenty
small boats maneuvering in a limited area in a
good breeze——crews tense, eyes on stopwatches,
waiting for the starting gun. There it 'goes l———And
out of chaos comes pattern as the fleet goes off
together for the first mark and the boats start to
string out. The leader now ’may not be the leader
later. The slightest error in judgment will be
immediately exploited. There are keen skippers
and fast boats closing up on that initial lead. Per-
haps that venturesome boat seeking a more favor-
able wind inshore will get it and leave the fleet
far behind. Small boat racing offers excitement,
suspense, fascination, action and thrills enough for
everybody.

Sailing gives us the joy of comradeship. A
sailing companion who thinks, feels, and reacts to
your boat with all the instincts of a good sailor
makes a good crew and increases the pleasures of
sailing. You’ll learn to cooperate and work as a
team. You’ll learn respect for each other’s abilities
and knowledge. You’ll acquire an understanding
of ,each other’s temperament and moods. Mutual
confidence in emergencies makes a unit of skipper,
crew and boat.

There’s joy in the feeling that you and your boat
are working together. For example, you are sail-
ing in company with a boat similar to yours,
evenly matched, and pacing. That is, you were
pacing until you sensed that your‘ boat was trying
to tell you that she could do better. You noticed
a shiver or a flat spot in one of your sails and
made a minor adjustment, and now you are pulling
ahead of the other boat. When you arrive at your
destination, the other skipper will lose no time in
asking, “How did you run away from me like
that P”—And you’ll answer modestly that you
made a minor adjustment to a stay or sail, but
you’ll feel like shouting because you really know
that it was you and your boat working together
and clicking as one, and that it was your doing
the right thing at the right time that made this
possible.

There are other oys and pleasures—that feeling
of buoyancy when the sails first start drawing, the
wind takes hold, the boat moves softly across the
water, and you hear only the whisper of the bow
wave. There’s joy in your ability to harness and
use the wind to prOpel your boat—the same wind
that, having taken you where you wished, goes on
unchanged across the sea and earth.

197

There’s pleasure and joy in caring for your boat
because the work that you do and the money you
spend are repaid tenfold by the added appearance
and performance of your boat. In the first warm
days of spring you’ll find yourself armed with
scrapers, sandpaper, paint, varnish, and brushes,
and together with other boat owners, you’ll start
conditioning your boat for another season’s sailing.
It is a strange truth that the very same man who
can’t be persuaded to varnish a what—not or paint
a porch at home, and must hire a painter for this
work, will sand, scrape, varnish, and paint his
boat with great joy, and do an expert job. You’ll
see women out there, too. Perhaps they need a
maid at home, but they can sand and varnish a
Spar or paint a galley with real enthusiasm.

During the winter when your boat is stored
and the storms are raging, there’s joy in reading
about boats and the experiences of other sailors.
You’ll find satisfaction in study and in the exten-
sion of your knowledge. Learn to tie a few more
knots or make a better splice. Learn to mend sails
by practicing on a scrap of canvas. Delve into
the International Code Flag signals and learn the
meaning of the various flags that you see aloft on
larger vessels. Learn navigation by joining a class
or by studying at home. Chart a cruise for next
summer’s vacation and plan _all the details of it.
Redesign your rigging for better sailing efficiency,
or start designing and planning your dream boat.

There are no retired sailors because there are
no limitations in sailing as to age, sex, or strength.
You can go sailing before you 'start walking and
you can keep on sailing as long as you are able

to climb aboard. A woman can sail as well as a
man, and a child can sometimes sail better than
either. Too, we have known some very able skip—
pers, physically handicapped in one way or an-
other, who could outsail their stronger friends and
hold their own in any group.

Sailing a small boat tends to develop a well-
coordinated and balanced person—something we
all strive to achieve in one way or another. If a
sailboat can give you this better self, that’s reason
enough to go sailing and reason enough to start
now!

A Boat ’ for Beginners

When you have the urge to go sailing—and
that is the unnamed longing or a much-verbalized
desire—you’ll find it’s easy to own a boat and
learn to sail. Of course, there are a couple of
requirements. You must have water on which to
sail—an ocean, a bay, a canal, a lake, a reservoir,
a river, or even a pond will do—and you must
find a boat that you can financially afford. The
best boat for beginners is the small boat, because
of its sensitivity and because of its economy. A
small boat that will sail can be obtained within
the range of $50 to approximately $750 and pos—
sibly less, dependent upon your ingenuity and
geographic location. With $10, a mast and lee—
boards can be rigged to a rowboat; a class boat
will cost from $150 to $750, and used boats can
be obtained for almost any price.

Because of its sailing efficiency, comfort, popu-
larity, ease of handling afioat and ashore, and its
ability to maneuver in shallow waters, we recom—
mend a fifteen-foot sloop for beginners.

Sal Magic

There’s magic in my tiny craft when I put out to sea;
No ear but mine can hear the voice that sets my course for me.

For back from Neptune’s dim green halls, with salt upon their lips,
Come all the storied heroes who have sailed the sea in ships.

I stand beside Ulysses as he hears- the Sirens sing;

I fill the hold with Inca gold to bribe a Spanish king;

With Kidd I‘ve raided treasure ships-we Hew the skull and bones;
I’ve whipped the British navy with the help of John Paul Jones.

There’s always magic in the wind when I put out to sea;
The wind that brings a ghostly voice to set my course for me.

198

MURIEL W. EDGERTON

RECREATION

 

use competition. Mother and son are keen archery rivals.

Families enjoy opportunity of sharing new, creative activities.

Families at Play

John S. Nagy

OCIOLOGISTS TELL US that the American family
S is breaking up. While wedding bells are peel-
ing out in record volume, our divorce courts are
also handling an all-time record traffic. Popular
magazines carry articles filled with lost week-ends,
lost emotional values and children lost in the
storms of domestic discord.

Whether the danger is real, or of a piece with
the morbid fears of an earlier generation which
survived the onset of the jazz age, is a question
that, no doubt, will engage our social historians
far into the future. K

But whether the alarms are warranted or not,
there is no question of the difficulties faced in try-
ing to preserve the best of the values of old-time
family life. The shortage of homes, the high cost
of living, the multiplicity of tensions in today’s city
living, the wartime gains in freedom for women,
and the atomic bomb’s heritage of fear all add to
the pressures that make for instability. Nor do
many city families have a basement recreation
room in which to let off steam. Many even lack
back or front yards.

Under these conditions, it is unfortunate that
even the hours of leisure and play too often prove
just another wedge to drive families apart. Father
goes off to the golf links or the ball game, the chil-
dren to their separate ways in search of play-

AUGUST 1948

A new Cleveland program to
help families find an opportu-
nity to play and learn together

ground pleasure or other recreation. And mother?
If she isn’t too tired to do anything but flop on the
davenport and turn the knob on the radio, the
chances are that she goes in still another direction.

Is it possible to change the pattern? Is it even
desirable, or desired?

We who are concerned with providing the kind
of public recreation in Cleveland that Clevelanders
themselves want and will support have been think-
ing it over; and we finally decided that the situa—
tion warranted some experimenting, at least.

Our recreation programs tend to fall into pat-
terns that separate age and sex groups. Therefore,
the question we set out to answer was this: Would
families play and learn together if given the oppor-
tunity and encouragement? We approached it
from several directions, in some cases by subtly
encouraging family groups to participate in our
regularly scheduled activities, among them arts
and crafts and dancing; in others by setting up
special programs for families, or reserving an af-
ternoon or an evening each week at a pool or rec-
reation center for family activities. 'A girl who was
learning to model clay would be urged to bring her
father or her mother or a brother to class; or a
boy who had taken up woodworking was made to
feel that his father and his mother would be wel—
comed if they joined him in his hobby.

199

 

Husbands and wives join rifle instruction group.

Then we began, cautiously, and with some
doubts, to set up family night programs at our
recreation centers. A period in the gymnasium
would be reserved for family groups. There they
could play volleyball, shoot baskets, work out at
calisthenics. A city pool would be set aside once
a week so that father, mother and the children
could dunk themselves, practice a new swimming
stroke or play simple water games.

We moved slowly, trying out the idea in one
center, then another. We weren’t sure how it
would take. We still aren’t sure what the results
prove or what their permanent value may be. But
the response to the programs has been such that
we feel confident that we are on the right track in
making such family fun available in neighborhoods.
We haven’t had to withdraw a family program be-
cause of lack of registration, as we thought might
happen in some instances. We have had to limit
the size of groups at some centers because, with
our facilities and staff, we couldn’t handle all those

who wanted to take part.

A mother who was a good swimmer brought
not only her two children but also her husband to
learn how to navigate in the water. Parents work
side by side with their sons and daughters in

A whole family enjoying a swim in the city pool.

ceramics classes and join hands for ballet. They
play in the gym together and they come to us for
aid in planning picnics. They learn new skills and
hobbies together. We have even had a small girl
bring her mother to a class to learn sewing.

Cleveland’s four‘Boystowns have carried out the
same idea by encouraging boys to bring their
fathers for a night of play. Men compete against‘
their sons in table tennis or in shooting baskets;
sometimes the boys put on a boxing show or other
entertainment for the parents.

One of our Boystown directors told of a boy
who said he didn’t have a father.

“W ell, then, bring your grandfather,” the direc—
tor told him. Another was told to bring his mother
if his father couldn’t come.

The results encourage us to plan for expansion
of this type of recreation programming next fall,
when winter indoor activities resume. We are
helping family and neighborhood groups to learn,
all over again, how to recreate together and enjoy
fuller lives. This is certainly a worthwhile goal
for public recreation. If, in the process, we help
to ease some tensions, perhaps save some families
from being washed out of existence, that is in the
nature of extra dividends to society.

 

Recipe for Preserving Children

Take one large, grassy held, one half dozen children, two or three small dogs, a pinch of brook and

pebbles. Mix the children and the dogs well together and put them in the field with flowers. Spread

over all a deep blue sky, and bake in the hot sun. When brown, remove and set away to cool in a bathtub.

200

RECREATION

The story of the “Arts
of Kansas” Festival is
a success story . . .

The Arts Take 0ver

HENEVER A SUCCESSFUL arts and crafts pro-
Wgram grows in any community, one of its
inevitable and positive results is a concentrated
feeling of community pride and achievement. A
specific community-wide project in arts and crafts,
therefore—with its opportunities for individual as
well aS group participation—tends, more than
many such projects, to pull the community to-
gether. By its creative nature, it stimulates a
satisfaction which is common to the highest and
the humblest of its participants and sponsors.
People work together easily and enthusiastically
and, as the project takes shape, cooperation be—
comes a natural by—product of aiming toward a
common goal.

This sort of a Situation is emphatically illus-
trated by the excellent planning and carrying out
of the cooperative and highly successful “Arts of
Kansas” Exhibition and Festival. This grew from
a county project to state-wide proportions, and
was presented in February of this year.

The idea for the project originated in the office
of Dr. Novotny, Superintendent of the Lawrence
Public Schools, last June when a few representa-
tive citizens were invited to discuss the possibili-
ties of such a celebration. At that first meeting,
the response to the idea was so enthusiastic that
plans were made for an organization to develop
it further.

With each meeting of the group, or of indi-
viduals interested in the original idea, possibilities
seemed boundless and additional features were
suggested. The groundwork was laid during the
summer months and, with the return to the fall
school routine, the committees began their work
in earnest. Original plans, which called for an
exhibition and accompanying program costing per-
haps $500 to $1,000 and appealing to Douglas
County and its immediate neighbors, were devel-
oped into a full scale, state-wide Arts of Kansas

AUGUST 1948

celebration which would attract people from the
entire state and beyond.

As a first step, preliminary plans outlining the
character of the celebration, and giving some idea
of its scope, were drawn up by the Exhibit Com-
mittee and mimeographed for the officials of the
Community Chest. Later, copies were distributed
to all committee personnel. They stated, in part:

“The anticipated gains to Lawrence are many and
varied. Never before has an attempt been made to pre-
sent the outstanding arts and crafts contributions made
by Kansas; this is another worthwhile opportunity to
demonstrate the educational and cultural leadership of
Lawrence. Other cities, having heard rumors of our cur-
rent project, are frankly envious that they didn’t think
of it before we did, and that they lack the essential
volunteer services of trained committee personnel which
Lawrence 'has in such abundance. The educational and
cultural aspects of Arts and Crafts of Kansas are appar-
ent. Already our school children are studying anout the
exhibitors and their work, and our adult population is
learning interesting and hitherto unknown facts about
Kansas in the field of drama, painting, silver smithing,
pottery making, literature, and the like. Aside from the
publicity which will be given Lawrence, in itself an asset,
the material gains will be appreciable. During the days
of the exhibit, hundreds of people from the surrounding
areas and from all parts of the state of Kansas will be
attracted to the city. The festival is a dividend-paying
investment.”

Festival committees worked independently, each
developing its own specific assignment. In order
to keep everyone informed of progress, mimeo-
graphed “reports” were periodically mailed to all
committee personnel.

When a definite program had been decided
upon, via community cooperation, a “general
story” Sheet (see following page) was prepared.
More than 1,000 copies were distributed during
December alone. Five thousand six hundred
copies were sent out to schools, women’s clubs,

201

and so on. Although used less as the separate
sheets on the program, exhibition and catalog
became available, it was useful as an enclosure in
letters and other mailings.

Story Of
Festival of Kansas Arts and Crafts

The Festival of Kansas Arts and Crafts, to be held in
the Community Building in Lawrence February 18, 19,
20, 21 and 22, 1948, will be one Of the finest educational
projects ever held in Kansas. People from all .parts Of
the state are planning to attend, and the morning hours
have been reserved for school children from Douglas and
adjoining counties. Neighborhood groups or teachers
who are bringing their pupils by bus should arrange
with the Festival Committee, Lawrence Chamber of Com-
merce, the date and time of arrival in order tO avoid
overcrowded exhibition space. '

Representative work of Kansas artists and craftsmen
who have achieved wide recognition will be exhibited.
Eleven classifications will be included: architecture; book
manuscripts and books; crafts and design; music manu-
scripts; ceramics; illustrations and cartoons; metal work
and jewelry; photography; paintings; prints; and sculp-
ture. Crafts will include wood carving, book binding,
and weaving. The ceramics display will include some Of
the finest pottery designed and made by Kansans. One
Of the most famous exhibitors in the division Of metal
work and jewelry will be Margaret ‘Craver, a Kansan
who is now one Of the most famed silversmiths in the
nation. Curry’s original painting of John Brown, from
which the murals in the capitol building in Topeka were
made, will highlight the exhibition of paintings and
prints. Never before have Kansas people had an Oppor-
tunity to see so many of the notable contributions made
tO the art of the nation by citizens of their own state.

The Festival’s program features will include: an
address by Governor Frank Carlson, honorary chairman,
Wednesday evening; an Indian pageant depicting early
Kansas history, directed by Mrs. Margaret Speelman Of
Haskell Institute, Thursday evening; a musical program
from Kansas colleges, Friday evening at the Community
Building, and Will Gibson’s prize-winning play at Fraser
Theater, KU; “Sunny,” a children’s Operetta, written
by Edna Becker and Rebecca Dunn and directed by Mrs.
Deal Six, Saturday afternoon and evening at LMHS
auditorium; and a concert Sunday evening in Hoch
Auditorium, KU, by the University Symphony Orchestra
and A Cappella Choir. An admission fee of one dollar
will be charged for the Gibson play Friday and Saturday
evenings; other entertainment features are free. Schools
are urged to indicate tO the Festival Committee, Chamber
of Commerce, whether they plan to attend the afternoon
or evening performance Of the children’s Operetta; it is
hoped that the afternoon performance can take care Of
those coming the greatest distance.

A catalog of 112 pages printed on enamel paper, with
at least fifty cuts Of prominent Kansas artists and of
work shown in the exhibition, will be off the press early
in February. More than 250 names Of eminent Kansans
will be listed, with biographical data on the more impor-
tant figures; the information is invaluable, and has been
collected and edited by the Festival’s Catalog Committee.
Since the supply Of the catalogs is limited, advance

202

orders are being taken. With its striking two—color cover,
individual copies of the catalog will sell for fifty cents,
plus ten cents postage if ordered by mail from the Festi—
val lCommittee, Lawrence Chamber Of Commerce.

Governor Carlson, in his foreword to the catalog,
explains the purpose of the Festival and emphasizes the
importance Of the cultural contributions made by Kansans
to the nation.

PLAN TO ATTEND THE FESTIVAL OF ARTS AND CRAFTS.
MAKE SURE YOUR HOME 0R SCHOOL LIBRARY RECEIVES A
COPY OF THE CATALOG BY ORDERING IMMEDIATELY.

Full program schedules were run off on legal
size paper to save postage in mailing, and sent
out far and wide, enclosed in formal invitations,
and with separate exhibition and catalog sheets.
These latter, in turn, were specially prepared and
distributed in every possible way. Five stencils
were worn out on the sheet giving information
regarding the catalog, and during the last four
weeks, mimeographed order blanks were clipped
to it. No letter or other communication went out
without the catalog sheet. On or after January
15th, all outgoing mail from festival committees
carried one of the catalog order blanks as an
enclosure. Requests for the two-page mimeo-
graphed exhibition sheet were received until the
opening day of the shOw. These were sent to
newspapers throughout the state, high schools,
women’s study clubs of all kinds, and to lists
furnished by sponsors.

Small printed folders also were made up, quot-
ing the mayor’s message from the catalog and
carrying a general announcement Of the festival.
Stickers announcing the event were used on the
envelopes of all correspondence; all sorts of
preliminary releases were drafted and sent to
newspapers. Further mimeographed materials
distributed included: hundreds of invitations
to the festival, and programs for the operetta,
“Sunny,” sent out by KFKU’S Radio Council;
lists of exhibitors under the headings—Painting,
Prints, Crafts and Design, Illustrations and Car—
toons, Architects, Ceramics, Metal Work and

%S% 3“

Jewelry, Music Manuscripts, Sculpture, Photogra-
phy. Information on “The Cry of Players,” Will
Gibson’s play, was not available for mimeograph-
ing until mid-January. Four hundred copies were

RECREATION

then mailed out with the catalog sheet, order
blank, and the one-page general story. State spon-
sors, high schools, and women’s clubs headed the
list of recipients. Special carbons were enclosed
with the material when sent to papers in the
home towns of the players in the cast.

Schedules of the demonstrations of arts and
crafts techniques of work were prepared and were
kept in the recreation office during the festival
for purposes of distribution to visitors. These
demonstrations proved to be one of the most popu—
lar features of the entire affair. The budget alloca—
tion for them was $100.

KU’s University Extension, with Marjorie
Whitney—head of Department of Design—as
director, held the annual high school art confer-
ence in February in order to afford students from
the state an opportunity to share in the festival.
This is one more evidence of the state-wide co—
operation stimulated by this exciting venture
into the realm of creative arts. Participants and
spectators alike were enriched not only through
their enjoyment of, and exposure to, a creative,
cultural activity, but through the experience of
working together on a common project.

The thoroughness of organization is illustrated
by the fact that, following the final executive
committee meeting, individual letters of gratitude,
in the form of a report, were mailed March 9th
to the artists and craftsmen giving demonstra—
tions, to officials of state sponsoring organizations,
to all committee personnel, to a list of people who
had given consistent help, and to scores of people

who had sent congratulations to the various
chairmen. Also, a personal letter went to Governor
Carlson and to the presidents of the Kansas col—
leges who were represented on the program.
The letters said, in part: “The Festival’s com—
mittee personnel, numbering seventy—two citizens
from the business district, Haskell Institute, Uni-
versity of Kansas, women’s clubs, city schools,
the city library, the AAUW and PTA—every
source of leadership used—worked tirelessly for
many months without compensation. But their
unselfish efforts could not have achieved the goal

without your cooperation and help. May I express
the gratitude of the Festival’s executive committee
to all of you who contributed directly through
committee affiliation or indirectly through friendly
and helpful suggestions and support.

“It is with pride and gratitude that we report
that a balance of $500.07 was returned to the
Community Chest, and that potential receipts from _
the sale of catalogues during the next few months
will add to that amount at stated periods. The
balance was made possible by the fact that our
committee chairmen planned wisely and worked,
many times beyond reasonable hours, without
material compensation and at great personal sacri-

ifice. All of them deserve the high praise theyare re-

ceiving for effective and unselfish leadership. Few
communities in the United States could equal our
fine record for volunteer workbytrainedpersonnel.”

Kansas, may we add our congratulations to all

Hobbies

Made-to-Order Quizzes

Irene Scott

IENDS WERE ALWAYS calling up and saying,
F“Irene, I’m having a party and I’d like some—
thing a little different in the entertainment line.
I thought maybe you’d know some games I could
be able to use.”

After asking who, whether children, women or
mixed groups; what the occasion might be, birth-
day party or bible class; when, afternoon or eve—
ning; where, rumpus room, lawn or apartment,

AUGUST 1948

I was usually able to give a few helpful hints. But
sooner or later, and too frequently sooner, I’d
hear a heavy sigh and then: “But, I haven’t time
to prepare a quiz like that,” or “It sounds good
but I’m not very ‘arty,’ you know,” and “Where
would I get the pictures? Harvey just carted
the last batch of magazines down to the Scouts.”

A solution dawned. I would prepare games and
have them handy next time my friends were stuck

203

with the entertainment committee.

I already had a scrapbook bulging with clippings
from magazines, a drawer full of party pamphlets,
and a corner of my library stocked with enter,-
tainment books. I began to thumb feverishly
through these sources and check the ones that
would be adaptable for my brain-child. With a
list of all the possibilities in mental tow, I turned
to materials.

An inventory revealed some oaktag, left from
my teaching days. (Those flashcards you had in
the primary grades were made of oaktag.) The
creamy-colored, slick—surfaced paper is tougher,
more flexible, longer wearing, thinner, more at-
tractive and much nicer to handle than cardboard.
It can be purchased or ordered from any book-
store carrying stationery supplies; it is inexpensive
and comes in several card sizes. An alphabet sten—
ciling set also is helpful, but either black crayon,
ink or letters cut from black paper could pinch-
hit. I prefer paste to glue, but that’s up to you.
A saunter through the flve—and-ten, and I was
off to the races. (Incidentally, it is almost as easy
to make up two or more sets of one game at the
same sitting.)

Find The Flowers—In a farm paper I found a
picture of a cow, and in a fashion magazine, a
picture of a girl’s petticoat—slip. I cut the two out,
pasted them on an oaktag card, and had the pic-
torial inspiration for the word cowslip. For fox-
glove, the teaser was, of course, a picture of
Reynard and one glove. Several small pictures
of flocks of poultry or sheep will suffice for phlox.
A car plus a picture or miniature map of the
United States will give carnation. While the fol-
lowing list of suggested words will tax your
imagination and ingenuity, it can readily be
assembled:

I. Ladyslipper 10. Four O’Clock

2. Iris 11. Hawthorne

3. Bluehill 12. Snapdragon

4. Bluebonnet I3. Larkspur

5. Sunflower I4. Hollyhock

6. Tulip I 5. Mayflower

7. Bachelor Button 16. Indian Paint-Brush
8. Snowball I7. Cockscomb

9. Dogwood 18. Bleeding Heart

If you wish to make the cards in your set more
“finished” and attractive, trace around the maga-
zine or catalog pictures, making patterns. Cut
designs from colored construction paper, and
mount on oaktag, giving a poster effect. Prepare
small sheets of paper, numbered (using a type-
writer if possible) for answers to the quizzes. For

204

one of my zoo quizzes I cut the score cards in
animal shapes. Strive for cleverness; it pays.

Pencils were a hostess problem which was
solved by buying thin unpainted ones with no
erasers, cutting them in two, and painting appro-
priate colors—for example, red, white and blue for
the July parties, and pink and blue for stork show-
ers. Dennison seals make dandy decorations, too.
I covered (pasted) one set with cloth pieces from
the scrap bag for a quilting bee.

Another game, which is always popular, espe—
cially with garden clubs, is original. A few seeds
of assorted varieties are obtained from the local
seed store (gratis, as it’s good advertising) and
mounted with cellophane tape on small cards.
When the cabbage, tomato, beet, carrot and the
rest are in place they are numbered with a large
number under each seed specimen. The contest
can be complicated by requiring the identification
of both pumpkin and squash, cucumber and canta-
loupe, and so on.

Games with an educational angle go over better,
and your greatest demand will be from youth
groups and women’s organizations. So make your
quizzes with that thought in mind.

‘ I’ve built up a game library to rent, complete
with score cards and pencils. I suggest suitable
prizes, and will conduct the games myself if the
hostess desires. Charges are two dollars an hour,
with all equipment furnished, or twenty-five cents
a quiz when the hostess doesn’t need my services.
The score cards are a total loss, and the wear and
tear on the quiz itself depends upon the group
using it. Give the youngsters, such as 4-H, Camp-
fire and Scouts, the older sets. The pencils must
be checked back, along with the games. Most
guests want to keep them, so I charge the hostess
five to ten cents per pencil, depending upon how
decorated it may have been.

If you try a similar project, use a little tact in
circulating the rentals. For instance, see that a
group of boys have the set before the girls use
the same game. Girl's won’t mind having the same
test the boys had, but not vice versa.

While my market was dumped in my lap, ready
as a ripe apple, if I were to move to another com-
munity and haVe to establish new outlets, I would
try personally getting in touch with club leaders
and presidents, church and school heads. It would
help to offer to conduct a game, free, for each
interested group, too. Store window displays or a
library exhibit should pay dividends. An unusual
ad in the local paper should lead to sales. It’s up
to you to make your locality, be it rural or urban,
game-conscious.

RECREATION

Don’t let the numerous conventional card clubs
dampen your ardor. One reason why cards are so
popular is the ease with which they can be used
as entertainment. You’ll find groups grasping for
games that are more diverting, when the “ground
work’s” been done.

Just a word as to conducting a game. “Size up”
the participants and if the contest seems a bit over
their heads, divide them into teams of three or
four. “Two heads are better than one” and they’ll
have.lots more fun, which is a prime requisite, and
never forget it. Another thing, there will nearly
always be at least one ingenious person in the
group who will come up with an answer which is
correct but isn’t on the answer sheet. Give full
credit, by all means.

There’s the phone. Bet it’s Susie, wanting
something brand new and different for the lodge
group tonight. Well, I’ve, got it!

Collectanea

Anita Mohwinkel

My purse has not always been able to keep up
with my collector’s spirit. My dolls and antique
buttons have appeared in shows, little ones to be
sure. ,On either side of my modest exhibitions
there often appeared a honey of a piece that I
longed to have, to increase the value of my collec-
tion. Until finally, consumed by this thirst for
expensive additions to a still mediocre assemblage,
I decided to pack away my collector’s items for
a prospective, more opulent great-grandchild.

Still, an acquisitive nature cannot be changed.
While adding to my scrapbooks one day I realized
that for over twenty years I had saved notes on
home nursing, articles on bazaars, recipes and
handcraft projects, all carefully catalogued. These
had amused me as a child, accumulated during
adolescence, arrived with the furniture in my
bride’s apartment, became known to the younger
generation as soon as their fingers coordinated,
eased the boredom and misery of illness, suggested
money-making ideas for the church. What better
collection anywhere?

Here was one hobby where the size of the purse
had little to do with the value of the compilation,
for its merit lay in the use that could be made of
it. I decided to get a soapbox and start on a cru—

AUGUST 1948

sade for bigger and better scrapbooks!

This is the most rewarding of all hobbies. Its
cost is low. Its upkeep is interesting, and can
benefit others. It is creative and is not the prideful
accumulating of another’s physical treasures but
the grateful acknowledgment of human brain chil-
dren, the recirculation of thought and information.

Equipment need be only the kitchen table, a bag
of wallpaper paste, scissors and a stack of dis-
carded magazines. Of course you can go into any
hobby elaborately but, if you do not want the
expense of purchasing scrapbooks, there is a sim-
ply constructed filing cabinet somewhere in your
house, I- ‘am sure. A cardboard carton from the
grocery store used with shirt cardboards for sub-
ject division will do nicely.

There is no age limit to this absorbing pastime.
A young child will spend pleasant constructive
hours cutting and pasting any colorful picture into
his own book. A dish of vegetable soup beside a
bottle of perfume does not seem incongruous to
him. The child of seven is old enough to specialize.
Just try your boy on a railroad theme or your girl
on a ballet dancer series. When a child is over
ten he is able to do much finer work. Then he can
know the joy of giving his book to some hospital
at Easter, Christmas—or Just Because. Institu-
tions graciously welcome such donations.

Pushing up the age scale we find the teen—ager ;
girls like articles that tell how to make a pin-curl,
apply make-up, and the like. Boys enjoy having
their airplane plans, workshops or camera projects
all in one place.

The housewife who throws a good recipe in a
kitchen drawer and later frantically searches for it
as'hubby merrily informs her of “company for
dinner” would appreciate the scrapbook habit.

Men who accumulate tons of magazines for the
sake of one cherished page in each, grin tolerantly
at the little woman who passes the suggestion
along with an alphabetized filing box.

The shut-in has the big advantage. He has
more time thanihis fellow “scrappers” and can
become an authority on any subject printable. He

" is the one most able .to ask, “Want a scrap?” when

someone wishes he knew how to delouse a dog or
organize a church social. He can devise his own
filing system so that no sooner has Jimmy, next
door, telephoned to ask, “Have you anything on
handcrafts for Boy Scout Cubs P” than the precious
information is in hand, just waiting for the door-
bell to ring.

Between A and Z there are many questions we’d
all like answered. Become informed and informer,

through your own Collectanea.

205

‘ -.-:::5;:--, .(_,;.':g-':- “WA- ;m < ~ , m.,,.,,-,,,,-...:M  .. - -

“QB. Stephen, who operates Pisgah Forest Pottery,
inherited his craft; makes exquisite decorated vases.

 

‘

to spinning. School is held the year around and,
in the summer, the place is crowded with people
from all over the world who come to learn or to
brush up on craftsmanship.

The Appalachian trail winds past many a’hum—
ble cottage industry, such as that of Joe Ducket’s,
of Watauga County, who carves ox-drawn covered
wagons from wood; and the cabin of Grandma
Donaldson, who makes appliqued “cow blankets”
near Murphy. At the Hilton Pottery, near Marion,
E. A. Hilton still tries, despite ill-health, to carry
on a craft he has followed for fifty-seven years.
His father was a potter in nearby Catawba County,
and the first Hilton products had no cash value,
since there were no tourists then, but were traded
to the stores for provender. 'Mrs. Hilton makes
costume dolls retailing for around ten dollars, and
has more business than she can ever handle.

The first potter in this country possibly was
Jola Weaver, who operated around 175 years ago,
and a few of his pieces may still be found in
mountain homes. 'After him came a deluge of men
who inherited the craft, one of them being W. B.
Stephen, creator of the interesting Pisgah Forest
Pottery. His exquisite jugs and other sets are
often adorned by a cameo-like relief which he lays

Along the Handcraft Trail

Bill Sharpe

THE HANDCRAFT TRAIL of the southern Appala-
chians in North Carolina this year will draw
more thousands of visitors than ever before, judg—
ing from reports from such centers as Penland,
Brasstown, Asheville. They will come usually as
tourists, for the handwork of the mountain people
has become almost as much a “tourister attrac-
tion” as the mountains themselves, but many will
come as students of the art, or as treasure seekers.

Within 100 miles of Asheville, it is estimated
that over 6,000 persons make all or a substantial
part of their living by fashioning things with their
handsw—everything from *hooked rugs to expensive
silverware. And the old arts not only are not
dying out, as was feared some years ago, but are
increasing mightily, spreading into the lowlands,
winning converts from visitors, and actually im-
porting modern products.

One of the highlights of the trail is Penland
School, where hundreds of outlanders each year
come to learn some fifty crafts—from gem-cutting

206

on, free-hand, with a brush, layer upon layer.
Far down in the Piedmont is the Jugtown Pot-
tery of Mrs. Jacques Busby, carried on by descend-
ants of the first potters ever to come to this coun-
try, and nearby is Cole’s Pottery.

There are many more. You should not miss the
Cherokee potters, who have never known the
wheel nor glazing. Mrs. Maude Welch is the
high priestess of the art and her pieces are
most valued. They are made by rolling the clay
out into serpentine strips, and building the jugs
and vases up strip by strip, the while smoothing
with her fingers. Finished and ornamented, she
tosses the pieces into living coals, a firing process
which gives her products an attractive multi-
burned appearance.

A well-known Cherokee craftsman is Goingback
Chiltoski, who does fine woodwork and sells it
handsomely, too. There are many other Cherokee
Woodcarvers (in the tribe, only women may do
pottery and basketry; only men the woodwork),

RECREATION

Basketry of Cherokees is one of their most
notable crafts. Only women may do this work.

including Dan Myers who does oxen, pipes and
other pieces.

Most notable of the woodcarvers who specialize
in animal figures are at the John C. Campbell
School at Brasstown. Several score craftsmen turn
out the whittlings here, on a part-time basis, and
the products are widely known and sold. John
Hall’s “mad mule” is in constant demand.

Twenty native weavers are doing fine towels
and other fabrics in their own homes for Mrs.
Lewis Norton, of Norton, North Carolina. More
tourists, however, see the handweaving at Bilt-
more Industries in Asheville, where quality home-
spun cloth is made. Mrs. D. W. Cook and Mrs.
Lucille Montez of Boone are noted for French
knot bedspreads. There are hundreds of hooked
rug makers throughout the hills.

Furniture making is less popular, but Edward
Dupuey of Black Mountain is recognized as a
leader in this craft. Likewise Stuart Nye, near
Oteen, who has found his exquisite silver pins,
rings, bracelets and other jewelry growing in pop—
ularity faster than he can produce them. Iron-
work is the specialty of the two Boone brothers—
Dan’l at Burnsville, and Laurence, near Asheville.

Several home-made novelties are made by
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Richmond of Asheville
who carve wooden birds (they once made them
from soap); Mrs. Bessie Blauvelt, of Asheville,

who makes plaques and other things from weeds,
seeds, pods, and odds and ends; and E. F. Buck-

AUGUST 1948

     
    

 

John Hall, of Brasstown, one of
numerous whittlers, in action. Small
animal figures have wide demand.

ner, an eighty-year-old.craftsman of Weaverville,
who is liable to turn up with anything, including
a monstrous giraffe made from wood and wire.
Willie Smith, of Asheville, is a favorite of many
handcraft collectors. He makes humorous little
dolls, using his neighbors as models. Willie has
no feet, so most of his dolls are endowed with
feet that are most conspicuous. Roby Buchanan
at Hawk, far off the beaten path, cuts and mounts
native gems for people all over the world.

The follower of the handcraft trail will not see
it all, but many shops and craftsmen welcome
visitors and their admiration. The Southern High—
landers Handcraft Guild maintains a sales room
in Asheville and carries a good line of crafts.
Another good shop is the Spinning Wheel, on the
Asheville—Hendersonville road; and Watauga In-
dustries, at Boone, not only teaches crafts but also
maintains good displays. There is a good shop at
Fontana Village, and the Brasstown group has
both a sales outlet and a pioneer museum, to which
visitors are welcome. There are many more ob-
scure workers, unknown to souvenir shoppers, but
who fashion everything from hand—riven shingles
to split-bottom chairs “which will never wear out.”

The adventurous handcraft fan (and his legion
is growing) will find many delights in the hills. of
the Blue Ridges and Smokies. His best start is to
consult the centers mentioned in this story; but
there is a good chance that he will uncover won—
derful things of which even they know nothing.

207

Standards for Municipal Recreation Areas

 

The neighborhood park is intended to provide a place
for quiet passive recreation for persons of all ages.

 

Parts of the large recreation park should be wooded
with trails for walkers, shelters at strategic spots.

 f ' a...
.  r ‘ ., ‘ - I, “r t I

,I a)
f.

d’

' l, 3" w W ._ . “(A .f1§:»pr  I. -. .- z |
 . 4. a a. 91.51%, “Wig; i D
$ ;.  y " .

A playfield should offer various facilities which will
take more space than is available on the playground.

208

 

A study of the standards pro-

posed by national agencies, local
and professional planners.

Part II

George D. Butler

Elementary School Sites

HE SCHOOL PLAYGROUND has been listed in a

few reports as a standard type of recreation
area, designed primarily to serve the play needs
of the children enrolled in the elementary school.
For many years leading authorities in the field of
education have recommended that no elementary
school—except one or two room rural schools—
should be built on a site of less than five acres.
State education departments have urged the acqui-
sition of large school sites, as in West Virginia,
where the minimum recommended area is two
acres for a building of one or two rooms, with an
additional acre for each additional class room up
to ten rooms. At its 1946 annual meeting, the
National Council on School House Construction
approved the following: “For elementary schools
it is suggested that there be provided a minimum
site of five acres plus' an additional acre for each
one hundred pupils of ultimate enrollment. Thus
an elementary school of 200 pupils would have a
site of seven acres.” In all cases, school site stand-
ards are based on the supposition that a large part
of the site be developed for a playground, and,
increasingly, that it be developed for community
recreation use. _

Areas of the size recommended by school au—
thorities cannot be justifiedif designed exclusively
for use during school hours. It is neither econom-
ical nor practicable to provide in each neighbor-
hood both a standard elementary school play-
ground and another playground designed to serve
neighborhood needs. For this reason, a single play-
ground, preferably located at or near the school

RECREATION

site, but developed to meet the needs of the entire
neighborhood population, is required in each
neighborhood, and provision of such an area is
recommended by most authorities. School site
standards call for properties that are ample in size,
if properly developed, to serve both "school and
neighborhood needs. Delegates to a National F a—
cilities Conference held in 1946 proposed, as the
basic neighborhood unit in the city’s recreation
system, the “neighborhood park-school” of ap-
proximately ten acres, combining the essential
features of the neighborhood playground, the
neighborhood park and the elementary school site.
(See Detroit diagram of playground with existing
school, June 1948 RECREATION, page 109.)

Junior Playgrounds

In certain densely built—up neighborhoods, where _

land prices'are high, it is impracticable, under
present conditions, to acquire an adequate neigh-
borhood playground, and smaller properties must
sometimes serve. Because it is not possible to in-
stall on these properties the standard facilities pro-
vided on the neighborhood playground, the use of
these areas is generally limited to younger chil-
dren. In Detroit, for example, junior playgrounds
from two to four acres are suggested in certain
neighborhoods, to serve children from six to ten
years of age. The National Facilities Conference
suggested that two or three acres be acquired for
this type of area. The junior playground should
not be considered as a standard unit of the munici-
pal recreation system, but rather as a modification
of the neighborhood playground.

The Playfield

The playfield—sometimes designated as the dis—
trict playfield—is the type of area that provides a
variety of facilities primarily for the 'use of young
people and adults, although a section is usually
developed as a playground for the children of the
surrounding neighborhood. It makes possible val-
uable and popular forms of recreation that require
more space than is available on the playground.
The playfield is a multi-purpose area providing
facilities and activities for all ages and it serves as
a recreation center for several neighborhoods. A
, portion of the playfield is sometimes developed as
an athletic field for highly organized sports such
as baseball, football and track.

Size. Ten to twelve acres are suggested as a
minimum size for a playfield and twenty to thirty
acres as the desirable size. The National Park
Service proposes fifteen to thirty acres; Cleveland
and Cincinnati, ten to thirty acres and Detroit,

AUGUST 1948

from thirty to sixty acres. Where a larger prop-
erty is obtainable, its deve10pment as a playfield-
park, with a section of the property serving as a
neighborhood park, is desirable. The National
Facilities Conference suggested that the “park
playfield” have from twenty-five to forty acres.

Most authorities recommend that one acre of
playfield space should be provided for each 800
of the total population of the city. Of the authori-
ties studied only Cincinnati, Ohio, and Cambridge,
Massachusetts, suggest an acre for each 1,000 of
the population.*

Location. The playfield normally serves four or
five neighborhoods and it should be as central as
possible to the neighborhoods or community it is
intended to serve. In general it is advantageous to
locate the playfield at or adjoining the junior or
senior high school site in order that it may be
available for both school and community use.

There is general agreement that a property of
the playfield type should be provided for not more
than each 20,000 population. The National Rec-
reation Association suggests that for a population
of 20,000 two playfields are preferable to one.
Cleveland and Cincinnati suggest a playfield for
each 15,000 to 25,000 people. ‘

Most authorities, among them the National Park
Service, the Federal Security Agency, the Na-
tional Recreation Association, and planning agen-
cies in Cleveland, Kansas City and other cities
recommend that a playfield should be provided
within from one-half mile to one mile of every
home, the desirable distance depending upon popu-
lation density and ease of access in the community.
The National Resources Planning Board believes
there should be a playfield within a half-mile of
all citizens. Cambridge, a densely built-up city,
suggests one-half to three-quarters of a mile as a
desirable service radius; Dallas, one mile; Cincin-
nati, one mile—with one and one-half miles in low
density areas; and Detroit, up to a maximum of
one and one—half miles. (In every case, as is true
for the playground, the radius indicated should
represent walking distance rather than a radius
marked on the city map.)

Features. The playfield should provide most of

the following features:
Separate sports fields for men and for wornenwfor
such games as baseball, football, field hockey, soccer,

softball.
Courts for tennis, bocci, horseshoes, shuffle'board,

roque, paddle tennis and other games.
Lawn areas for such activities as croquet, archery,
clock golf.

 

*T-Tis standard was proposed in_l937 by the National Recrea-
tion Association, but was later revrsed.

209

Outdoor swimming pool.

Outdoor theater or Iband shell.

A few fireplaces, tables and benches for small group
or family picnics.

Recreation building.

Children’s playground.

Running track and spaces for field events.

Center for day camping.

Landscape park area.

Area for parking automobiles.

Many of the features in the playtield should be
lighted for evening use.

 

Secondary School Sites

Since many playtields are developed on or near
junior and senior high school sites, standards rec-
ommended for such properties are of interest.
School authorities have long urged that at least
ten acres be provided for each junior high school
site and up to twenty acres for each high school
site. The National Council on School House Con—
struction in 1946 approved the provision of a
minimum site of ten acres for secondary schools,
plus an additional acre for each 100 pupils of
ultimate enrollment. Thus a high school of 500
pupils should have a site of fifteen acres. Since, in
proper planning, 'much of the high school 'site
would be available for recreation use, it is clear
that the school standards do not differ widely from
those recommended for municipally owned and
operated playtields.

At the National Facilities Conference the “com—
munity park-school” was suggested as a standard
unit. It is essentially a combination of the play-
field, neighborhood park, and high school site.
Space requirements for a community park-school
to include a junior high school were indicated as
twenty-live acres; a senior high school, forty acres.
A portion of the latter site would be developed as
an athletic field for interscholastic sports.

The Neighborhood Park

The neighborhood park is a relatively small area
primarily intended to provide an attractive neigh-
borhood setting and a place for quiet passive rec—

210

reation for people of all ages living in the neigh-
borhood. As previously indicated, a neighborhood
park is sometimes combined with a playground
or playheld, in which cases the area is known as
a neighborhood park-playground or playtield—park.
Where properly located space is available, there
are advantages in combining these types of areas.

Size. Because of the nature of the neighbor-
hood park, its space requirements are less suscep-a
tible to standards than in the case of the play—'
ground and playheld. Where suitable land is
readily available, especially if it is not adapted to
other community uses, much more space may be
acquired to advantage than is needed to meet
minimum requirements; some properties with the
characteristics of a neighborhood park approach
100 acres in size. One and one-half to two acres
is the minimum recommended by the American
Public Health Association’s Committee, the Na-
tional Recreation Association and Chicago and
Cincinnati planners. Four to seven acres are sug-
gested in Cleveland and Kansas City, although in
the latter city two to four acres are considered
adequate if the park is developed adjoining an area
used for active recreation; five acres up to fifty

'acres, by the regional planning authorities in

Cleveland and Milwaukee. From ten to twenty
acres are recommended in Dallas, although acqui-
sition of properties up to fifty or 100 acres is rec-
ommended where conditions justify.

Few authorities have estimated the overall
neighborhood park acreage requirements of a city,
although in Cambridge, Kansas City, Cleveland,
Cincinnati and Milwaukee one acre for each 1,000
people has been suggested. This is somewhat less
than the amount recommended for playgrounds
and for playhelds in most cities. The—American
Public Health Association’s Committee proposes,
with good reason, that more neighborhood park
space be provided in neighborhoods with a mul-
tiple-family development than in those with one-
or two-family dwellings. Its recommendations
vary from two acres per 1,000 persons in the
former type of neighborhood with 1,000 popula-
tion, to seven-tenths of an acre per 1,000 persons
in a neighborhood of one— or two-family dwellings
with 5,000 population.

Location. The neighborhood park should be lo-
cated as near as possible to the center of the
neighborhood it is intended to serve. In general, a
park should be provided for the same population
group that needs a playground, although in resi-
dential single—family neighborhoods, with large
home sites, a park may not be needed.

The accepted radius of the neighborhood park

RECREATION

is variously indicated from one-quarter mile to
one mile, but seldom more than one-half mile.

Features. Neighborhood parks usually consist
of an area with open lawn, shrubbery, trees, walks
and benches and one or more features such as a
pool, bandstand, fountain, sun dial, sandbox or
other play apparatus for small children, and tables
and benches for quiet games. One or two plan-
ners have‘suggested that the children’s play appa-
ratus, courts and fields for games and other facil-
ities for active recreation be installed in the neigh-
borhood park. Such a proposal is subject to ques—
tion unless a section can be set aside and developed
as a playground, in which case the property as-
sumes the characteristics of a combined neighbor-
hood park and playground.

Large Recreation Park

This area affords the city dweller an opportunity
to get away from the noise and rush of city traf-
fic and enjoy contact with broad expanses of nat-
ural scenery, but its primary purpose is to provide
azpleasant environment in which he can engage in
a variety of recreation activities. It is designed and
developed for the enjoyment and diversified use of
large numbers of people.

Size. Most authorities recommend 100 acres as
a minimum for this type of park, although the
American Public Health Association’s Committee
mentions fifty acres as a minimum, and the Federal
Security Agency indicates that a park of less than
100 acres may be adequate in a small community.

      
 
 
 

f.
‘ .

/
/

 
 
 
 
 
 

     

L.
I

/

4

~ //

"/'.
I
MI I”

It is seldom possible to secure the desired effect in
an area of less than 100 acres, and it is not often
possible to acquire suitable areas of more than 300
acres within the city limits, although several cities
have such parks that exceed 1,000 acres. Three to
four acres per 1,000 population are suggested by
the American Public Health Association.
Location. Each small city should have a park of
this type and there should be one in every major
section of a large city. Several authorities indi-
cate that such a park is needed for each 40,000
population. The location depends upon the avail—

AUGUST 1948

ability of land that is suitable in size, topography
and other natural features. The American Public
Health Association suggests that a park of this
type should be within walking distance or accessi-
ble by means of public transportation to the entire
community. The National Park Service indicates
that there should be a park within one to three
miles of every citizen. The National Facilities
Conference suggests that a park of this type be
within a maximum radius of two miles of every
residential neighborhood.

Features. Parts of the area should be in vari-
ous types of woodland, Open lawn, meadow and
stream valley, wherever possible. Facilities for
boating, swimming, picnicking, winter sports, hik-
ing and field sports are desirable. A zoological
garden, bird sanctuary, botanical garden and na-
ture museum are often desirable features. A se-
cluded section may be set aside for a day camp.
Roads are needed to provide access to centers of
greatest use but should be kept at a minimum.
Paths for walkers should be numerous, and com—
fort stations and shelters should be located where
people congregate in large numbers.

Reservation

The reservation is an extensive area of diver-
sified scenery kept primarily in its natural state.
Its purpose is to preserve the scenic features of
the area for the enjoyment of the people and to
provide a setting for limited forms of recreation.
Many cities do not own a reservation but rely
upon state or county authorities to provide prop-
erties of this type. Regional park systems are
composed, in part, of reservations.

Size. One thousand acres or more are usually
needed for the reservation. If smaller, it is likely
to receive too intensive use, which spoils the na-
tive conditions of the area.

Location. This type of property is usually lo-
cated near or outside the city limits. Seldom can
a suitable site be found within the city. Ready ac-
cess by automobile or by public transportation is
essential to satisfactory use.

Features. A minimum development appropriate
to the area is generally desirable. Overnight or
long term camps, picnic centers and facilities for
water sports and winter sports may be provided.
Play equipment and sports fields are rarely de—
veloped except in relation to camping and picnic
centers. Large sections of the reservation are
accessible only by hiking or bridle trails. A nature
trail or museum, bird sanctuary, game preserve or
center for nature study is a common feature.
Buildings are needed at centers for winter sports,

211

camping, picnicking, swimming and boating; shel-
ters are sometimes provided along trails or at
lookout points, and parking areas are essential.

The Parkway

This is essentially an elongated park with a road
extending throughout its length. It is usually
located along a ridge or stream valley. The park-
way often serves to connect large units in a park

system or to provide a pleasant and easy means of —.

travel between the city and the outlying region. It
is rarely found except in the park system of a
large city or metropolitan area. Because of' its
nature, standards cannot readily be suggested for
its size or location. The parkway is usually sev-
eral hundred feet in width and portions of it are
often developed for various recreational uses.

Special Recreation Areas

Areas which provide facilities for a Specific form
of recreation include a golf course, campsite, bath-
ing beach, swimming pool and athletic field or
stadium. Often these facilities are provided in
types of pr0perties previously described, but spe-
cial sites are commonly acquired for them.

The Golf C ourse. Fifty acres or more are needed
for a nine-hole course and one hundred acres or
more for an eighteen-hole course. Land with un-
even topography and some woodland is most suit-
able. Golf courses are usually built on prOperties
near or outside the city limits because of the
difficulty of acquiring suitable sites near built-up
neighborhoods. Because the game requires con-
siderable time, ease of access is less important than
with many other types of areas. A club house is
needed and tennis courts, a bowling green, and
other game courts are sometimes provided nearby.
The course is often used for winter sports.

The Bathing Beach. The bathing beach area
usually consists of a tract adjoining a lake, river
or ocean. Its location is therefore determined by
the availability of water area. Its size is likewise
dependent upon local factors, although a water
frontage of several hundred feet is desirable. A
bathhouse and parking area are needed and play-
ground apparatus, game courts and picnic and re-
freshment facilities are generally installed.

The Swimming Pool. Occasionally a separate
area is acquired for the swimming pool. A space
as small as one acre will serve for a neighborhood
pool, but several acres are needed for a large pool
which will attract people from a considerable radi-
us and at which ample parking Space must be
provided. A bathhouse is needed, and a sand beach

212

and courts for games and play activities are fre-
quently built at the pool.

Athletic Field or Stadium. This specialized type
of center is intended primarily for highly organ-
ized games and Sports designed to attract a large
number of spectators. Five acres are the absolute
minimum size on which a field can be develOped,
but ten acres are preferable. Twenty acres or
more are needed at a field or stadium seating large
numbers of spectators, because an extensive park-
ing area is required. This type of center is often
established on a high school site or as part of a
playfield development. ,

The athletic field or stadium usually provides a
quarter—mile running track, a football or soccer
field, baseball diamond and facilities for field
events. Unless locker, shower and toilet rooms
are provided for participants under the stadium or i
in a nearby school building, a special field house
is required. Toilet facilities for the public are also
essential. The entire area is enclosed by a wall or
fence at most athletic fields.

The Municipal Camp. Most municipal camps
are established in large parks or reservations or
on land leased from county, state or federal au-
thorities. Some cities, however, have acquired spe-
cial camp properties—in a few cases, many miles
from the city. The minimum desirable site is
twenty acres; some camps occupy several hundred
acres. The site should be in a comparatively se-
cluded area, partially wooded, and should contain
a body of water suitable for swimming or have
ready access to one. Sleeping cabins, dining room,
recreation hall, nature museum, service buildings,
boathouse and infirmary are among the many types
of buildings provided at the municipal camp.

The day camp, which has become very popular»
in recent years, requires only a few acres although
it is desirable that the campers have easy access to
a larger property. A shelter building is the only
structure needed in a day camp but a craft shop
and nature museum are useful features.

Conclusion

Cities vary in the recreation interests of their
people and in climate, scenic resources, population
distribution and economic and social factors. Spe-
cific recreation space standards, therefore, that
will apply with equal effectiveness in all cities,
cannot be prescribed. Experience has demon-
strated, however, that a well-balanced neighbor—
hood recreation program requires fairly well-
defined areas and facilities, located in relation to
the homes of the people. Other outdoor activities
are possible only when various areas of proper size

RECREATION

and development are made available. The preced-
ing statement should serve as a guide in appraising
a city’s recreation areas and in determining the
properties which are required to serve unmet
needs. Occasionally compromises are necessary
but they should be recognized as such and not be
accepted as representing a normal pattern.

The striking increase in public demand for rec—
reation during the past two decades has made nec-
essary an appreciable upward revision of Space
standards. If the trend continues, present-day pro-
posals will seem just as out-of-date a few years
hence as the standards suggested early in the cen-
tury are inadequate for present needs.

The procedure for planning and developing a
system of municipal recreation areas is not con-
sidered in this statement. It is axiomatic, however,
that the planning of such a system necessitates a
knowledge of recreation standards and close coop—
eration with the planning authorities of the city or
region. Equally important are the creation of ade-
quate machinery within the local government for
the operation and maintenance of the recreation
areas and facilities, and the employment of a
trained, competent leadership staff. The acquisi-
tion and development of areas for recreation are
not ends in themselves; they are rather essential
steps toward the provision of satisfying recreation
opportunities for the people of a city.

 

A Brief Bibliography

The publications consulted in the preparation of
the preceding statement are listed below. Although
the list is not comprehensive, it is representative

of material on standards issued during the past
decade.

I. By Federal Agencies and National Organi-
zations:

American Institute of Park Executives. Proceedings
of the Forty—Second Annual Convention. 1941. Contains
the report of the Institute’s Committee on City‘Planning.

American Public Health Association, Planning the
Neighborhood. 1948. Public Administration Service. A
report of the Subcommittee on Environmental Standards
of the Committee on the Hygiene of Housing.

American Society of Planning OHicials. Planning 1943
-—Proceedings of the Annual Meeting. 1943. Contains a
preliminary report of the Society’s Committee on Park
and Recreation Standards.

Federal Security Agency. Planning for Recreation
Areas and Facilities in Small Towns and Cities. 1945.

National Conference on Facilities. Guide for Planning

AUGUST 1948

Facilities for Athletics, Recreation, Physical and Health
Education. The Athletic Institute. 1947.

National Council on Schoolhouse Construction. Guide
for Planning School Plants. A tentative report of the
Council’s Central Standards Committee.

National Park Service:

Recreational Use of Land in the United States. Issued
by the National Resources Board in 1938.

A Study of the Park and Recreation Problem of the
United States. 1941.

National Recreation Association:

Recreation Areas—Their Design and Equipment. 1947.

Standards for Neighborhood Recreation Areas and
Facilities. 1942.

National Resources Committee. Urban Planning and
Land Policies. 1939. Supplementary 'Report of the Ur-
banism Committee.

National Resources Planning Board. National Re-

sources Development Report for 1942. Contains a report
of the Board’s Land Committee.

II. By State and Local Agencies and Individ—
uals:

Cambridge (Massachusetts) Planning Board. Plan-
ning in Cambridge. 1946.

Chicago Plan Commission: '

“Chicago Plans.” New Pencil Points. March, 1943.

Woodlazmi. A Study in Community Conservation.
1946.

Chicago Regional Planning Association. Municipal
Parks and Playgrounds in Illinois, issued by the Illinois

| State Planning Commission. August, 1938.

Cincinnati City Planning Commission. Recreation: An

'Analysis of Its Administration and Program of Activities,

and Facilities Required. 1947.

Cleveland City Planning Commission. Places for Play-
ing in Cleveland (Standards for Public Recreation
Areas). 1945.

Cleveland, Regional Association of. Neighborhood
Conservation, A Handbook for Citizen Groups. 1943.

Dallas City Plan Commission. A Master Plan for
Dallas, Texas, (a system of parks and schools) by
Harland Bartholomew and Associates and Hare and
Hare. 1944.

Detroit City Plan Commission. Proposed System of
Recreation Facilities. 1946.

Kansas City (Missouri) ‘City Planning Commission.
Recreation Facilities—Standards, Deficiencies, Recom—
mendations. 1947.-

Lohmann, Karl B. Planning Opportunities for Towns
in Illinois. 1944.

Los Angeles Playground and Recreation Commission.
Recreation—A Post-lVar Plan for Los Angeles. 1946.

Milwaukee County Regional Planning Department.
Recreation and the Preliminary Report on the Master
Plan. 1946. (typewritten)

New Jersey State Planning Board. Where Shall We
Play? 1938.

Philadelphia Tri-State District, Regional Planning
Federation of the. Nature’s Plan for Parks and Park-
ways—Recreational Lands. 1932.

Rhode Island State Planning Board. Recreation in
Rhode Island. 1936.

Tacoma, Washington, Mayor’s Research Committee on
Urban Problems. Tacoma—The City We Build. 1944.

West Virginia Department of Education. Standards
for Schoolhouse Construction. 1945.

213

0030.. 020582000. 0.0.5000 00.. 00.2.0. 20.36 >00 =5.

      

b

2.000... 52023..
.EEmo... cox—.203. r560
no...>..u< 0.5.02 055ml: 5:09.03.
2:20 20.50 5:09.00: 30.0.... 3.950.... c0..oo._uo¢ 3.500
0.3
20.3mm 5.0200... 1.0%“

                            

an“... .M_.._.m_.._._.._u...._m  an”... “a... a .53
. c:
.53me 00.0000 “:0”. 5:23 .0. on... $0. .0022. “2... 02.09.00 9:50.. 055... m 09.3“ 9.0..
025000 2.20 .25 m...< “mamuuuz numuuah 7.0020.“ 30.2 3.03 .25 2.0.00.3"... mn..~_...:.0<.uc:0> > < a W m D = .—.
haemqquh SENRV 002.0203. .233... 0552...
«8030.... 5:09.03. uE... mmDOKQ 20.30020
:00Q0N 30350:...

20.33 05.0sz

«untouc— .o.uom. a...

 

.8200... 7.0.26 003 .30... 0837:5200... 9:52... .2; 02.20.50 5:00..qu 3.55.800 =oEm..

0.9.0.055 05.020...
«.00.. £88.3m

8.239.. 305 £93 3.03 .2; 59:30”.

0863 ho..,0

                        

 

0&2 . 20 80 Son 0 .50 0.. . .I . .
0 n :08 0.3% m _ 200500.. n. Womoobow om<.m3..... ooo.oom [Wwwbo—  
um .— u 0 . 0030200”. 0.03 recon chimwwwoou “Hanna 30.03 . 2%..03. 0.3....  1189mm
. 9:000 . . . 5.3200 320 . :0 «to 3.5.85.0 .
. 20.mmmm 3.20 .2;  0£050 .0 .50... canton—w :08h...$(.um0 0.0.0 .m. 5:09.00” c..w_o.h.on._uuwo “Ham”...   z a 
uémZmQ 333.0% 5330‘ . 02< 5:00.63. 100;.00;m.02 "Eu—not... sinus—.0“ .1“.—
0330 a.§.h.w..==_o> “.520 205385

20.3.... .(«me0

.8200... .3025 00m. .30... 00.01.120.00... 3.50.... .23 02.20.50 somoohuox .23....
.5309... 302$ com. .30... o_.o=o._._0u..l.ouco._o.c00 5:00.53. 12.3.05...
«E950... 5:09.03. 30:00

 

                                     

a .3 co. 2:520 5.3200 is... a .3 55.2.0020.— .
Eugen—go = w "u—oommmchccEminm— O. 0*.hxc00r2nmv _ .0 _no.ucom< 0.3m  
20.3mm 02.0203. 16%“ __. 3.239.. 0.05 0020200“ 3.50.. .23 comma—S 820...: .25 nton £58800
. . «.0 E0 .60 0 2:0 O.— 050. COED c. a... .0 ‘0. 09.00

4§w200 2.2.5 so“. n. Jana“... 202......» 9.25% 2:. _ 0.2.... 5.2.2 z > 4 0 m u D h
. =3 2.0 MWth .05 at... 0.5.0 2.0.3.0: 0.30.... 0.00.. 00.0.0 .3. c0233.... .00.. .000..._0n....m.oz 0.... 055.0...
N m 0. .0 V 959.0 20.0.5020 030.3. 035...... . 2:3;

20.33 .53sz mmDO¢0 20.30020

 

—Eo._m0.£ .30on com. .20.... osozllEEmoi 2.50.... .23 3:20.000 cox—.203. £23.00
.8930... .302...” com. .30... 3.82:0". 60:20.30 5:022.“ 30.31:...

0820
.232 >0... 0.2.2 «E030... 5.32.03. emu—.00

R .._.,.._mm

 
 

5:09.00“ 3.50.. .000 :0.+000>

                        

00.70203. .300... c0200..qu 2.80“. mcwadnnnu. z
2933 5220 an... 2 2 h 5.220 .
Aémzmw £20 2. :2 . 239.0 2033020 .mwommmwrnwomw“was; > < 0 O 3.

30.20% 9.320...
«0.239.. .10.. 05 5:09.03. .80.. .0 33.390 .020 .5. 8:20.500

 

E3502 .
023.. .<

 
 

€53.50... 30.00m 00m .20.... 3.2.0.5”.
.co..3.com._0 1.5.30.2... 2300 :022303.
30.03 c0233; 50.302.

own—mum
>4 0 Z 3 m

   
   

20.3mm
0229.0
aémzmw

        

 
 

8.2 1...... $5.2... 8:23 3.2312 3.: . 8.: 2.2 .22...

 

mg. .Omém mmmEmEmm <¥m<mmmz .<I<_)_O ...m._.OI 3325.20”. 

035200 zo_._.<u~_um:_ ._<zo_._.<z fon 3.30.0

RECREATION

214

A Desert Playground
Breathes the Romance
of the Southwest

ARIZONA G01]!

Cedric Austin

ENEVIEVE C. PARCHER well described South
Mountain Park when she wrote: “The r0-
mance of historic adventurers’ footprints, the thrill
of exploring majestic and fantastic geologic mazes,
the challenge of unreadable prehistoric Indian
writing, the bouyant lift of a day in the sunshine
under the blue Arizona sky, the peace of solitude
when you crave to be alone with nature, the joy
of a frolic with your friends away from the atmos-
phere of city streets, the smell of a campfire on the
evening breeze; all these South Mountain Park
can give you.

“Spanish explorers and Yankee prospectors
searched for hidden gold in Arizona mountains
and canyons; the gold of her sunshine is Arizona’s
real wealth. Only seven miles from the heart of
her greatest city, Phoenix, is the largest municipal
desert and mountain playground in the country,
South Mountain Park, where gold is free to all
who seek it. Just drive seven miles through groves
of sun-ripening citrus trees, directly into the park.”

For many years after Phoenix began to grow
into a modern city, riders, hikers, and nature
lovers took it for granted that there would always
be plenty of recreational acreage in the valley. As
more and more land was put under cultivation,
farsighted citizens convinced the City Commission
that they should purchase all of South Mountain
——-14,000 acres—for a public park. It was then
public domain,

An article in a Chamber of Commerce publica-
tion stated in April, 1924: “For some time the
City Planning Commission has been carefully
considering the needs of Phoenix for the future, as
well as for the present; and for the past eighteen
months they have had in mind a mountain south
of the city as a playground for the people of
Phoenix, but could not get concerted action.

“Six weeks ago Mr. James Dobbins was made

AUGUST 1948

chairman of a committee on this particular project
and in just, six weeks he has ‘turned the trick.’
The playground is assured.

“Our City Commission, cooperating, has again
knocked a home-run and our City Planning Com-
mission has demonstrated its usefulness and far-
sightedness. This is what Daniel Webster defines
as progress.”

In 1937 the entire area was turned over to the
Park Board for a little over $18,000. The acquisi-
tion of the land is a long story—letters, telegrams,
many fat files bulging with papers crisp with age.
It took more than twelve years finally to complete
the entire transaction. A payment of $18,142.47
was made to the Land Office October 6, 1924, for
approximately 14,000 acres under the Act of Con-
gress June 7, 1924. Later———~March 3, 192 5—
151.13 acres were added. The act was amended
February 8, 1927, disallowing mining claims. The
land acquired was as follows:

Patent from government to city:

September, 1927 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..9,215.70 acres

October, 1927 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 151.13 ”

September, 1930 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..3,329.06 ”

September, 1931 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 382.65 ”

March, 1935 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 355.82 ”

Leased from State Land Department, July 1, 1930, and

purchased for $1,941.66, February 20, 1936. . .640.00 acres
38 year contract; 38 equal payments

5% per annum on deferred payments.
Gift, December, 1932 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 102.50 acres
Gift, March, 1934 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 640.00 ”

Tota-l acreage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14,816.86 acres
During the late thirties, extensive development

took place with the help of both CCC projects and
prisoner labor. Springs were developed, water and
electric wiring were piped underground to picnic
areas; trails were developed, roads constructed
and permanent buildings erected. War time re-
strictions on labor and material cut down road

215

repair and general park maintenance, but exten-
sive postwar plans are ready and waiting for
proper financing.

The South Mountain Park of today covers many”

points of interest. Among one of the most scenic
trips is the one to Dobbins Lookout, five miles
by car from the park entrance, elevation 2,330

feet. From the rugged stone structure at the -

Lookout, windows disclose a panorama of vivid
contrast and color in four directions, 14,000 square
miles of view. Southward through Telegraph Pass
one can see where the first telegraph line into
Phoenix came across the mountain. There are
rest rooms located at Dobbins Lookout; the area,
however, is restricted as to picnicking. '

If you are a brisk hiker, you may choose the
trail on up to the Suppoa. The top, marked with
a flagpole, is 2,700 feet. On the other hand, De
N iza Rock lies in the eastern part of the moun-
tains. After passing through Guadalupe, a Yaqui
Indian village, your route is off the pavement,
leading through a loop trail.

Fray Marcos De Niza was a Franciscan friar
who made an arduous missionary ourney through
the southwest in the early 16th century. He re-
peatedly heard tales of fabulous cities to the nOrth,
filled with gold and jewels.

Returning to Mexico, he so fired the imagination
of the Spanish viceroy Mendoza that he outfitted
an expedition to find the “Seven Cities of Cibola.”
Coronado, in a suit of golden armor, led the party
of 300 horsemen and a thousand Indians, accom-
panied by De Niza. After months of travel De
Niza was so discredited that he returned in dis-
grace; Coronado searched for years and never
found the fabled cities.

The carved inscription, translated by F. Capis-
tan, a Franciscan father, reads, “Coronado, where
he passed from Mexico to Aycos in the year of
Our Lord, I 539.” Aycos, according to historian I.
I. McClintock, is probably Acoma. The lettering
is allegedly sixteenth century ecclesiastical Span-
ish. Its historical value lies in the fact that, if
authentic, it indicates part of the route taken by
Coronado.

To really enjoy the park, one should see it in
true Western style—from the back of a horse. A
good string of capable, sure-footed, well-cared-for
saddle stock and equipment are available at all
hours. One of the most interesting day or over-
night trips is to Hidden Valley. You ride through
a prehistoric picture gallery, Hieroglyphic Canyon,
its walls covered with petroglyphs, or rock pic-
tures. Next is the lovely natural phenomenon,
“Arrowhead Monument”—-and don’t miss Twin

216

Sisters Peaks as you drop through a natural rock
tunnel into Hidden Valley. Here you can hike to
Phantom Hitching Rail, inaccessible on horseback.

Now you are ready to wind through picturesque
Pima Canyon before returning by way of Buena
Vista point.

These are but a few of a variety of intriguing
trips. Some thirty miles of well—marked hiking
trails network the most attractive points of the
park.

This was at one time Indian territory. Indian
remains in the park indicate that the mountain
was a favorite hunting ground for many genera-
tions, but that probably it was only a temporary
home during the hunting season. Evidence that
it was also used as a sacred area by the ancient
Hohokam was disclosed by the discovery of
numerous shrines surrounded by ritual objects.

Giant cliffs of weathered granite carved by wind
and water into thousands of fascinating shapes
delight the imagination of artists, hikers, and ex-
plorers. The park’s most interesting geological
wonder is the “Chinese Wall,” a natural dike made
of black lava stretching like the Great Wall of
China over the top of the mountain due east and
west.

Almost all varieties of Arizona cacti can be
found at various altitudes and exposures. Bot-
anists have identified more than 300 specimens of
plant life of various kinds. The public is asked
not to pick the flowers or damage trees, shrubs,
and cacti.

N o hunting or trapping is allowed and firearms
are not permitted. Even predatory animals and
birds are protected by law. Areas have been set
aside as game refuges and wilderness areas where
no roads will ever be built.

There are three planned picnic areas with tables,
benches, drinking fountains, electric lights, park-
ing facilities, garbage disposal units, rest rooms
and fireplaces. These areas are Piedras Grandes,
Las Ramadas, and Las Lomitas. The last two are
planned for large parties, Las Ramadas having
eight tables, each seating twenty-five people, while
Las Lomitas has twelve tables the same size. An
open air dance platform or skating rink is avail-
able for parties by reservation. Piedras Grandes
is fitted up as a special playground with swings
and other apparatus. All ramadas are lighted; and
recently we have lighted thirty small individual
tables distributed around the Piedras.

Some outlying picnic areas are partially devel-
oped, having stone structures, tables, and fire
grates, but as they are not provided with water,
lights, or refuse disposal, are somewhat restricted

RECREATION

 

Records0of past year show over 3,000 cars per week
entering park; in Spring, over 2,500 cars per Sunday.

 

There are planned picnic areas with parking facilities,
shelters, tables, fireplaces, electric lights and water.

for picnic use at present.

The Administration Area, located at the park
entrance, includes custodian’s quarters and office,
Rock House concession, concessionnaires’ quar-
ters, helpers’ quarters, stable concession, bunk
house and two landscaped parking areas.

The Hideout area, just off the beaten path to
Piedras Grandes lower area, is an adobe structure
with small living quarters, an adobe wall enclosure,
outside dance floor and large outside fire grates
for frying steaks. Until recently the forty car
capacity landscaped parking lot has been let on
concession.

Other park facilities include twenty-six miles
of automobile roads, forty miles of saddle trails,
185 hand-carved directional signs, 11,905 feet of
underground electric cable, 2,000 feet of under-
ground telephone cable, 60,000 gallon water stor—
age tanks and 16,000 feet of water line.

Recent developments having a definite bearing
on the operation of South Mountain Park include
such matters as: the use of the 01d CCC barracks
and camp, during the war, by the U. S. Engineers

AUGUST 1948

 

 

Here one finds the buoyant lift of mountain air, the
peace of solitude, the smell of an evening campfire.

. . ‘ . _ r '.
. ' x ..
-.--—-»-“':. ":1  .-‘-.*.-..c-
” '  °‘:::_ .

Western square dance group enjoying “Valley of the
Sun” on mountain platform beneath Arizona skies.

and the housing of the Army Headquarters Com-
pany; the renovation of the CCC barracks, trans-
forming them into an emergency veteran’s housing
unit making available apartments for sixty—five
families; the housing of city prisoners in the Hide-
out area, an emergency which has now been elimi-
nated; the use of prison labor repairing roads and
picnic facilities ;' the drilling of a new well two and
one-half miles north of the park at a lower eleva—
tion to supply needed domestic water; the increase
in operation staff from one custodian to four
employees—a manager, custodian, night gate and
patrol man, and one day man for handling prisoner
labor, repair and cleanup; the charges and fees;
and the installation of an entrance control gate.
At present there is no charge for day use of
facilities—except when reservations are made in
advance, a twenty-five cent table fee is assessed.
After five p.m. a gate man. controls the entrance
where a twenty-five cent per car charge is made
with no fee for reservations or lights. The car
charge is experimental and considerable elasticity
is allowed to take care of large parties and picnics.

217

Discussion has arisen over this feature of charges
and fees; therefore, very accurate records are
being kept, which, after a six months’ period will
give some indication as to the advisability of such
a program.

Records of the past year show that an average

of over 3,000 cars per week enter the park. During
the Spring of the year, the traffic counter has
recorded over 2,500 cars on a Sunday.

Yes, South Mountain Park is popular; it has
possibilities beyond our dreams. Someday it will
be Arizona’s greatest playground.

Uptown, llowntown, Crosstown

Churches

are in

neighborhoods
where people live . . .

Harriet Batt

CHURCH RECREATION FACILITIES, while private
in nature and support, are essentially city—
wide. Recognizing this, community recreation au—
thorities should feel a definite responsibility to do
everything within their power to see that these facili-
ties which, in most cases, have not been used to ca-
pacity, are utilized to as great an extent as possible.

Lincoln, Nebraska, is a city of churches—~up-
town, downtown, crosstown. Authorities declare
that there are 110 churches in this city of 100,000
people. Lincoln’s churches are recognizing their
responsibility to their youth and are making a con—
scientious effort to supplement religious instruc-
tion with wholesome, invigorating, and attractive
leisure time activities.

Church recreation facilities represent a large
block of the available resources of every commu-
nity. Some of the larger churches are well—
equipped and staffed to carry on a rounded pro—
gram in their church. buildings. These require
' little assistance from an organized department.
Leadership is requested more frequently by the
smaller church whose capable volunteers under-
stand the needs of their youth and are interested in
helping them to grow by planning interesting, well-
rounded programs.

Church groups have been using city recreation
facilities, to some extent, since the department
was first organized in 1925, but a special program,
called Church Recreation Service, was set up in
the fall of 1946. A letter was sent to each minister

218

inviting his church to participate in the program.
A return card was _enclosed on which he was
asked to list the volunteer leaders from his church
who should receive future information regarding
the service. The response was excellent, and the
first bulletin came off the mimeograph in October.
Printed games. are easily read, but much more
likely to be used if people participate in them.
So a “take-part-in—it-yourself" group was formed,
the name “Recreos” attached, and a formal
Church Recreation Service became an official part
of the recreation department.

On the third Thursday of each month, the
Recreos gather at the ’Municipal Recreation Build—
ing to take part in those games listed in the bulle-
tin which would take more than a quick reading to
teach effectively—musical mixers and trick games
in particular. A “sharing of ideas” period, a light
lunch planned by one of the church groups, a good-
night mixer, followed by a Friendship Circle round
out an evening of good fellowship. At Christmas.
“time a brief worship service was included to dem—
onstrate the transition of moods. Participating
members are invited to bring members of their
groups if they choose. For special functions, as
many as fifty-five have attended, although the
average group is about twenty—five in number.
Some members have used their training by becom—
ing summer playground directors.

Bulletins are published the first Saturday of
each month on special church recreation stationery.

RECREATION}

Each one usually contains an illustrated seasonal
party plan, a collection of a certain type of game
(e.g., “Games for Small Spaces”) and a page of
leadership aids. In the fall, tips on leadership
were concerned with planning an effective year’s
program in terms of the needs of groups plus
available facilities and personnel. Questionnaires
filled out at the initial Recreos meeting in October
guided the selection of subject matter for the
remainder of the bulletins, which included leading
party singing, musical mixers, action games, and
the like. The present mailing list includes sixty-
nine persons representing thirty-three churches.
As new people come into the office for special
church party help, they are added to the list and
also invited to come to the Recreos meetings.

The Inter-Church Athletic Council has con-
ducted a very extensive and well-organized ath-
letic program for boys, using YMCA facilities, for
over twenty-five years. Similar activities for girls
were not carried on until the summer of 1947
when the city recreation department set up an
inter-church volleyball league with six teams par-
ticipating. A winter league brought out six more
teams and this summer, a church softball league is
on the agenda. At the end of each season, a trophy
is awarded to the winning team and a plaque to
the runner-up. One of the larger local churches
permitted the use of its gymnasium without
charge for practice periods for any of the groups.
Girls from. twelve to sixteen years of age seem to
be the most interested in the athletic program.

Still in the experimental stages are the youth
centers which have been organized where the com-
munity feels a need and where the church facilities
are adequate. In the fall, when an announcement
of the Church Recreation Service was sent to every
pastor, the churches were invited to set up centers.
The department volunteered to pay a leader to
supervise the program which would be expected to
include any young person in the neighborhood
regardless of church affiliation. The church was
to set up its own advisory committee. Three have
responded, two in suburban areas. Another large
church is planning a regular “family fun night”
once a month for next winter.

The Community Service Department of one
church has set up a program to include entire
family groups. First, second, and third graders
meet in a Sunday school room one afternoon each
week for games and a story hour, a church mother
supervising. The same afternoon, a college-boy-
director conducts organized play in the gymnasium
for the fourth, fifth, and sixth grade youngsters.
He also supervises gymnasium activities for

AUGUST 1948

junior and senior high students one evening per
week—volleyball, basketball, shufHeboard, table
tennis, table hockey, and so forth. Once a month
a full-length children’s movie is shown. Occa-
sional special parties for families are held, such
as those on Hallowe’en. The center opens in late
October and continues through early March.

There are a number of outlying communities
which must depend on supposedly regular bus
service for downtown recreation. Two churches
solved this problem by opening centers, one on
Thursday nights, and one on Saturdays. Both had
paid directors. One group was interested in social
games, hayrides, and such general group activities.
The other, the Saturday night group, wanted to
learn to dance. So a Community House was
opened to them and a “teacher” paid by this de-
partment. One of the members supplied a phono-
graph and records. The snack bar committee sold
pop and various mothers supplied other refresh-
ments. A young couple who sponsored the Sun-
day night league group agreed to oversee this
group also. Special parties were planned and all
young people who lived in this rather remote area
were invited.

Experience showed that a program for this en-
thusiastic group of late junior high and early
senior high students needs to be rounded to keep
both boys and girls interested. Therefore, plans
are already underway for the coming year, calling
for a balanced program of athletic and social activi-
ties, with less emphasis on dancing for this group
of fifty, because the community house also boasts a
gymnasium.

Folk dancing is becoming increasingly popular
for church groups. Upon request, the local Coun-

 

Teen-age jivesters of Dedham, Massachusetts, are also
hep to the lively fun in old-fashioned folk dancing.

219

cil of Folk and Square Dancing sends out callers
who are also instructors. Every age group seems
to find the activity enjoyable, although the mar-
ried couples’ groups appear to be the most inter-
ested. Musical mixers and games are very popular
with all groups from junior high on up. The de-
partment.‘ is frequently called upon to supply lead-
ership for this type of activity since the average
leader is not sufficiently trained.

This department receives many calls to assist
with the planning of special parties and programs
such as carnivals, picnics and banquets. When
youth rallies, sponsored by various churches,
occur, staff members are sometimes requested to
conduct the recreation periods. There have even
been calls to conduct a regular Sunday night recre-
ation period for one church’s junior high students
and for a supervisor to go out and conduct Bible

Food With That

Picnic Flavor

  

and cookery. There are countless recipe
books in which one can find appetizing dishes suit—
able for the outdoor menu, but here are a few
simple tested suggestions suitable for all types of
outdoor cooking equipment and fires which are
certain to make a “hit” at any picnic.*

‘ 7 OLUMES HAVE BEEN written on outdoor foods

Sandwiches

Picnic sandwiches should not always be the ham
sandwich variety. You Will be surprised to dis-
cover what excitement some new concoction will
cause and one shouldn’t forget that most pe0ple
like to share in the preparation of their eats. Place
on the table the raw materials—breads of different
kinds; jars filled with a variety of good things——
jams and jellies, peanut butter, meat spreads,
cheese, relishes, mayonnaise; sliced meats, toma-
toes, lettuce, and the like—and let the picknickers
make their own sandwiches. If sandwiches con-
taining moist fillings and salad combinations are
prepared beforehand, make them as short a time

220

School recreation for a ten-week period. It would
be impossible to supply trained persons for all the
church groups in the city. Therefore, it is recom—
mended that each church select its own leaders and
that those leaders take advantage of the Church
Recreation Service. However, for especially large
gatherings or a once—a-year social function, staff

.members do conduct the recreation activities.

All regular equipment and facilities are available
to church groups. This includes mimeographed
materials of all types, picnic loan service, social rec-
reation consultation service, and an ample library.

Churches are in neighborhoods where people
live. They are in a most strategic position to pro-
vide a vital recreation program and, under capable
leadership, can attract and hold young people.
Lincoln has taken several steps in this direction
and hopes to be walking more rapidly soon!

ale

Clark L. F'redrikson

before serving as possible. A number of sand-
wiches and sandwich fillings are suggested below.
To the fillings add seasoning to taste.

Cheese Bobs: Securely wrap a piece of cheese—-
about an inch square—min a piece of bacon. Pierce
with a stick and broil over hot coals. Have a but-
tered roll all ready to drop the “cheese bob” into

it when the bacon is done.

H oney Cinnamon Toast: This can be prepared
at home and carried. in a small jar. Mix warm
honey and creamed butter together with two parts
honey to one part butter. Add a generous
sprinkling of cinnamon and beat well. Spread

thinly on toasted bread.

Sandwich Fillings

One cup of cooked chicken or veal, one cup
of celery and four tablespoons of mayonnaise.
Chop chicken and celery very fine.

*Reprinted from The Picm'c Book, by Clark L. Fredrikson.
For more excellent suggestions for picnic fun and planning, .be
sure to obtain a copy 0 this book from the Nationa Recreation

Associaiion, price $1.25.

RECREATION

Pound chopped chicken or veal, parsley, and

cooked yolk of egg to a paste. Season with celery
salt and a few drops of onion juice. Moisten with
mayonnaise or Hollandaise sauce.

One cup of peanut butter and one—half cup of
grated raw carrots.

Tuna fish and chopped celery mixed with may—
onnaise. Season with lemon juice and salt.

Cream cheese with jelly, or chopped olives, nuts,
watercress, cucumbers or chives. To soften cream
cheese, add cream or salad dressing. Season to
taste.

Minced ham mixed with chopped pickles and
pimentos and blended with mayonnaise.

Peanut butter and grape jelly.

Chopped tongue, pickle relish, and mayonnaise.
Cream cheese with strips of date, ginger, can-
.died fruit, green pepper or pimento.

 

Deviled ham, minced Olives, and mayonnaise. ashestand :1 fewthot coals. Allow to cook for thirty
mmu es, a eas .
nutiream cheese, shredded carrots, and chopped Clam Bake: This is a case of hole-i?_then
Honey and freshly ground peanuts. ground COOkmg' A layer Of wet S.ea‘f"e"'d ls put
down on the hot stones, the clams laid 111 these and
Baking more wet seaweed placed on top. The hole is
Little Pzg Potatoes With a cor1ng knife, re— seaIEd. Up with wet burlap and hot Sand- Half
move from one end the centers of medium sized hour 15 rEqumd to COOk the.daims' When they
Irish or sweet potatoes, just enough to make room gigiiinout 0f the hOIC’ dip m mated butter
for small sausages. After the opening has been D /, gjg' 't - M k b' ' d h f
stuffed with sausages, close it with a piece of the 091.0“? “cm 5' l a e lscuit 911g ,0 pre'
potato core” Scrape hot coals aside, lay the potato pared BISQUE flour and shape by hand 1n th1n layer
in the hot earth or sand and cover with same. over \ lenna sausages in. small fiankfurters' Toast
pile coals on top. The potatoes may be wrapped slogly over tire, allowmg ten minutes to bake.
in wet leaves, wet brown paper, or mud. If em range Puglets. .Slice off the top of the orange
cased in mud, place in direct contact with the and eat the 1n51de w1th a.spoon,leav1ngth.e orange
coals. Allow forty-five to sixty minutes for baking. Shell WhOIC' c.00kha smp Of bacon (untll nearly
Bacon, Cheese 01. raw egg also makes a tasty one) on a stick eld over the coals. Place the
stuffng for Irish potatoes. If an egg is used it is bacon 1n the bottom of the orange shell, break the
well to keep the potato upright in the coals or seal Egg Into It' Fa.Sten on t0p.0f the orange With two
it carefully with clay before putting it in the tire. small green tWIgF and Set m the €021.15 to COOk' Ii]
Brown sugar, raisins, and marshmallows may be about seven or e1g t mmutes you w111 have a dell-
used in sweet potatoes in place of sausages. Clous egg ready. to eat If y 0.1 1 do HOt care for the
Pig Apples: Prepare the same way as the origige flag/Yor’ jlng th: cup lefh wax aper'k f
potatoes. Remove the apple core without having It gas: forn'b (fit ear? 0t cor; m buc et 0
a hole all the way through. Stuff with raisins and 53 W3 er or a Cu en mmu 6.5- 3.11% cars OVCT
brown sugar, marshmallows or sausage. Allow coals and allow to COOk Show ihirty mmUtes' C9111
from thirty to forty-five minutes for baking, de- can big tesmg’ t0_ ascertam If it IS done’ by taStmg
pending upon the coals. a gram. (1\ote. Before soaking corn, search for
Fish 0 la paper Sack: Secure small fish about worms, but do not remove shucks.)
one-half pound each or fish steaks, well-cleaned Stewing
and scaled. Salt and pepper fish and spread with Campgrs’ Gouzash;
butter. Wrap well in wax paper and place in dry 1A cup butter 1/2 cup water
paper sack, twisting top to retain flavor. Place dry 1 lb. hamburger steak 14 cup tapioca
sack into two wet sacks that have been placed on 1? teaSpoonS salt 1 gr?“ pepper’ Chf’pped
camp fire which has been allowed to burn down Sigisspzzgng 21):): :natoes ; SEIZOEFSEZPEZieSC
to ashes and a few hot coals. Cover bags with hot

(vegetables may be added)

AUGUST 1948 221

Melt butter in kettle or pot over the direct
flame. Add meat, salt and pepper, and brown
slightly. Add tomatoes, minute tapioca, green
pepper, onion and water. Place over fire and
cook thirty minutes, stirring frequently. Just be-
fore serving add cheese. Serve on toast. . (Ten

portions.)

Corn Chowder :

1 can tomato soup

1 small can evaporated milk
3 cups water

1 teaspoon salt

4 slices bacon
2 medium sized onions
3 medium sized potatoes

1 can corn

Cut bacon into small bits and cook slightly, add
onion also cut into small bits. When slightly
brown, add water, salt and sliced potatoes. When
potatoes are tender, add corn and tomato soup.
Permit to boil a few minutes, then add the milk

and cook a few minutes more. (Will serve three
or four.)

H nnters’ Stew :

V2 1b. diced bacon 6 diced carrots
2 medium sized onions, 4 large potatoes, diced
sliced Any other vegetables you

Water, but not too like
much (stew, not soup) Salt and pepper

Fry bacon crisp, add onions and cook until
transparent. Pour in cold water (enough to cover
vegetables) and heat to boiling. Add carrots and
cook about ten minutes before adding potatoes.
Season and continue cooking for thirty or forty
minutes. (Four portions.)

Broiling

Dog-With-a-Stick—in-His-Month: If you must
have the ubiquitous “hot dog,” and the children
often demand it, dress it up this way. Use well-
fed “dogs,” the pudgy kind, and slit them a little
way down on the stomach side. Into this slit
insert a thin wedge of American cheese or dill
pickle. Wind a strip of bacon around the dog and
fasten with a toothpick. Broil over hot coals.
When the cheese is melted and the frankfurters
sufficiently cooked, blanketthem safely in heated
rolls and eat at once.

Hamburger and Onion Patties: Press uncooked
ground steak into thin patties. On half of them
place two tablespoons of chopped onion and one
teaspoon meat sauce; put a second thin patty on
top and press edges together. Broil quickly on
flat plate of grill or in hot frying pan. Serve in
hot toasted buttered buns. For each person allow
one-half pound ground steak.

Kabobs: Cut bacon and steak into small pieces
about one and one-half inches square. Slice onions
in quarters from the stem part down. Place on a

222

sharpened and peeled stick of wood three-quarters
of an inch thick or less alternating the bacon, steak
and onion slices, but leaving a little space between
each piece. Broil over hot coals until well done.
Place between slices of buttered bread or between
the halves of a roll. Other vegetables may be
added.

Desserts

Mock Angel Food Cake: Trim the crusts off
day-old white bread and cut into slices three-
quarters of an inch thick. Cut into strips three-
quarters of an inch wide and about two inches
long. Dip bread strips into sweetened condensed
milk and roll in dry shredded cocoanut. Pierce
with stick and toast over coals, as you would
marshmallows.

Chocolate Popcorn: Boil together one and one-
half cups granulated sugar, one and one-half tea-
spoons butter, one square unsweetened chocolate
and three tablespoons water. When mixture spins
a long thread, pour it, while hot, over three quarts
of freshly popped corn. Stir until all the kernels
are coated.

Apples: Char the end of a sharpened green
stick; then plunge it into cold water. Spike an
apple on this stick, and roast until the apple skin
peels off easily. Roll the apple in brown sugar.
Mold it over the coals and turn.slowly 'until the
sugar candies.

Candied Apples: Two pounds of granulated
sugar, added to one-half pint of dark Karo and
one-quarter pound butter, will glaze about twenty
apples. Cook in deep kettle, stirring until it spins
a thread when dr0pped from spoon. Remove from
lire. Spike an apple on a sharpened stick, dip into
the syrup, turn in air until cool.

Beverages

Coffee: Measure cold water into the pot, allow-
ing one level tablespoon of coffee to each cup, plus
one for the pot. Pour coffee into the pot slowly,
so that it will form a “blanket” on the surface of
the water. Add a dash of salt. Do not stir. As
the beverage starts to boil, the “blanket” will
break. Boil about one minute. To settle: pour a
cupful of coffee, then pour it back into the pot.
Now ready to serve!

Hot Cocoa: A recipe for eight people. Two
tall cans of evaporated milk, twelve heaping tea-
spoons of cocoa, twelve level teaspoons of sugar,
a pinch of salt and ten cups of water, and boil.
Then add the milk and bring to a boil. You can
make this with fresh milk, too, but who wants to
carry three quarts?

RECREATION

Personalities in the
Recreation News . . .

Father of
Philadelphia
Recreation

N JULY 7 OF THIS YEAR, Otto T. Mallery re—
0 signed as President of the Philadelphia Rec—
reation Association after a period of more than
forty years of unselfish devotion to the Association
and to the furtherance of the recreation movement
in Philadelphia.

In 1908, two years after he had planned and
financed a survey of playgrounds in Chicago—the
results of which were greatly responsible for the
creation of the recreation movement in Philadel-
phia—he became Assistant Secretary of the Phila-
delphia Playgrounds Association which, at that
time, was one year old. Throughout the years that
followed he not only contributed his personal serv-
ices to the Association, but often assisted finan—
cially in its growth. It was in this same year that
he became President of the Philadelphia Recreation
Commission, the first great stride toward making
recreation a municipal responsibility.

From 1910 to 1925 he served as Treasurer of
the Playgrounds Association and, as chairman of
many committees, spearheaded new steps in recre-
ation. In 1925 he became its President and,
through his tireless endeavors, the heritage of play
was extended in that city. His immediate recom-
mendation of surveys resulted in an increase of
recreation facilities, and he was greatly responsible
for the creation of the Bureau of Recreation.
Through his influence, the Bureau successfully
weathered many difficult periods of growth.

The year of 1927 began a period of originating
new services and a general expansion of the Play-
. grounds Association, and focused public attention
on forward steps in public recreation. Succeeding
years marked the broadening of program and
services to include, among many innovations, arts
and crafts; appreciation of art, drama and music—
with leadership of music on the city playgrounds;
costumed wandering story tellers; the first “tot-

AUGUST 1948

 

lot” playgrounds, indoor playhouses, safe«coasting
hills, use of city squares as playgrounds, learn-to—
swim campaigns, city-wide music festivals, insti-
tutes to train recreation leaders.

Expansion, of which the above is a sample, con-
tinued through Otto T: Mallery’s long service, and
each year further plans enabled more local citizens
to play more, play better, and to choose from a
wider range of creative and cultural activities.
Advances in the 1940’s, aside from war emergency
programs, included the playlot movement inaugu-
rated in c00peration with Federal and Municipal
Government Agencies; development of youth
councils; recreation for older people; conference
of local recreation agencies on “Recreation, a
Community Responsibility.”

In 1946, the name of the Association was
changed to “Philadelphia Recreation Association,”
the charter being amended and functions changed
from that of an operational agency to that of a rec—
reational-promotional agency “to further the ex-
pansion and improvement of public recreation” and
“to manage, direct, and/or operate any recreation
projects for the benefit of the public.”

And so, with an outstanding record of achieve-
ment and the knowledge of a job well done, Otto
T. Mallery retires from his position as President
of the Philadelphia Association. However, as a
member of the Board of Directors of the National
Recreation Association—a position which he has
held since 1912—he will continue to be a force in
the development of the recreation movement.

223

Recreation in the News

Recreation Valuable to Mental Health

The American Psychiatric Association has
established a committee on leisure time activity,
believing that the mental health aspects of this
facet of human life are extremely important. Dr.
Edward Greenwood, of the Menninger Foundation
in T0peka, Kansas, has accepted the chairmanship
of this committee. Both Dr. Greenwood and Dr.
William C. Menninger will be among the guest
speakers at the 30th National Recreation Con—
gress, September 26—30.

Dr. Menninger, who headed the Army’s psychi-
atric services during World War II, was elected
President of the American Psychiatric Association
last May. About three years ago, he had stimu—
lated the Association to appoint a committee on
recreation. In the article, Play As You Co, which
appeared in the February 1948 issue of RECREA-
TION magazine, Dr. Menninger said, “Play is an
activity which we choose freely—without necessity
or outward pressure. We do it solely for the satis—
faction we get out of it, and not for any monetary
value. We are free to drop it altogether or shift
to a different kind of activity whenever we wish.”

New Hostels Executive

Ben W. Miller recently has been appointed Ex-
ecutive Vice President of American Youth
Hostels. In his newly created position, he
will be the chief executive officer of the
organization and will be responsible to the
Board of Directors for all phases of its opera—
tion and activities. At present, Mr. Miller is
the Executive Secretary of the American
Association for Health, Physical Education
and Recreation, but he will assume his new
duties early in September.

In announcing the new appointment, John
D. Rockefeller, 3rd, president of the Hostels,
stated that in 1947 20,000 young people took
advantage of the constructive recreational
opportunities of the Youth Hostels program
in the United States to travel on foot, on
bicycles or otherwise “under their own steam”
and to stop overnight in the friendly environment
of the 200 Hostels. Plans have been completed

224

for the opening of a number of new Hostels this
summer under the sponsorship of local councils.

For Years of Service

George H jelte, general manager of the Depart—
ment of Recreation and Parks in Los Angeles,
California, has been awarded the honorary degree
of Master of Humanics, in absentia. This was offi—
cially announced at the June commencement exer—
cises of Springfield College, Springfield, Massa—
chusetts. Mr. Hjelte will be informally honored in
person upon his arrival in the East, in the early
fall, for the Park Executives Conference to be
held in Boston.

Texas Forester Appointed

S. L. Frost of Bryan, Texas, has been appointed
Executive Director of the American Forestry As—
sociation, succeeding Ovid Butler. A leader in for—
estry education in the South for the past decade,
Mr. Frost, who, at thirty-eight, is the youngest
executive officer in the Forestry Association’s his—
tory, had been acting director of the Texas Forest
Service. Prior to this, he headed its educational
work, serving at the same time as editor of Texas
Forest N ews, as secretary of the Texas Forestry
Association and, in 1947, as chairman of Southern
State Forestry Educational Directors Association.

 

Ruth Ehlers, NRA social recreation leader, shows so-
cial workers Barbara JaSper, Dorothy Jones, Jack. P.
Houlihan, Ruth McKinney the art of party decorating.

RECREATION

Junior Red Cross
Helps Build Home Unity

Choose a partner
who is dwerent . . .

Samuel Everett

“Now ALL TOGETHER for a Better Community,
a Better America, a Better World!” This
is the guiding theme in summer playground and
camp activities of Junior Red Cross in the Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania, area.* The playground
programs are carried out through the cooperation
of the Philadelphia Board of Education, summer
playground directors, and directors of local camps.
It is peculiarly appropriate that the Junior Red
Cross should work for home unity and better un—
derstanding of human relationships throughout the
world. The American Red Cross is an interna—
tional organization. It is dedicated to the aid of
people who are in need throughout the world, re—
gardless of race, religion, or socio—economic status.
Moreover, the American Red Cross is an organi—
zation of all the people. It is supported by all the
people and works for the welfare of all pe0ple.
The following pledge states the purpose of the
Junior Red Cross Playground and Camp Pro—
gram, and sets the tone for the junior program.

I will remember that the American people are a people
of many races, religions and nationalities.

I will respect the right of my schoolmates and neigh—
bors to enjoy the freedoms I enjoy rwithout regard to
race, creed, or nationality background.

 

*Program described in the bulletin, United We Play, South-
eastern Pennsylvania Chapter, 511 North Broad Street, Philadel-
phia 23, Pennsylvania. Free copies are available.

AUGUST 1948

I will constantly search for true facts so that I myself
will not believe or spread rumors against any group of
peOple.

I will work for unity and peace in my community by
opposing racial and religious prejudice wherever I meet it.

The Junior Red Cross, which is the Red Cross
in the schools, works for “service for others” and
for “better human relations throughout the world.”
This theme has, in the Philadelphia area, been
definitely pointed toward deve10ping better under—
standing among children of different racial, relig-
ious and socio—economic backgrounds.

Summer playground programs offer opportuni-
ties for living and learning practical democratic
group relationships. The following practical prin—
ciples, or guides, are uppermost in the minds of
those leaders who participate in the Junior Red
Cross program:

Every attempt should be made to have participants
understand and practice democratic values such as free—
dom of speech, cooperative thinking and discussion, and
respect for the individual person regardless of race or
religion.

All groups from all sections of the community should
be encouraged to utilize the summer playground facilities.
Individuals and groups who tend to isolate themselves
should be especially encouraged to cooperate.

Each activity should be an expression of the unity of
all the children. Group composition should ‘be constantly
scanned from this standpoint.

Selection of student leaders should reflect the racial
composition of the group.

Wherever activities entail opposing teams, these teams
should be mixed. One racial group should not play
against a different racial group.

Name—calling should ibe the subject of special attention.
Immediate discussion of the situation should take place
with the group involved. Discussions in assemblies, grow—
ing out of name-calling incidents, could contribute much
to an understanding of the problem.

Wherever possible children’s participation in planning
programs and activities should ‘be encouraged. A student
planning committee should be formed.

Adult Participation

Democratic living is important not only to chil—
dren; to be really effective in the larger commu—
nity it must be practiced by adults to a much
greater degree than in the past. Directors using
the Junior Red Cross unity program have sought
to develop activities which involve as much adult
community participation as possible.

A number of mothers of children of different
national groups came regularly to Philadelphia
playgrounds to instruct girls in sewing. Under
such neighborhood leadership hundreds of comfort
articles were made for children in local hospitals
and other welfare organizations. In these Junior

225

Red Cross production groups, service to others,
regardless of race, religion or socio—economic dif-
fererices, became more than a verbalization. Chil-
dren were actually engaged in activities which
build good will in the local community. Good will
and understanding were also built within the group
itself, for the girls participating were Negro and
white, Jews and Gentiles, Italian, German, Irish,
and of other nationalities.

The way in which an adult—child planning com-
mittee can operate successfully is well-illustrated
by what happened in connection with one of the
playgrounds. A Negro minister, several mothers,
the director of the playground, and a number of
children of various racial backgrounds planned a
culminating program at the end of the summer.
At the initial meeting of this group random ideas
were presented. Several children first wanted to
decide “how to seat people,” “who shall be ushers”
and “how long shall we give to each event.” At
subsequent meetings, however, they began to think
about the features of their summer program which
were distinctive enough to be included in a final
exercise. For example, the boys wished to put on
a tumbling act. It was decided that mats could
be put down in the center aisle, as well as on the
stage. Thus the problems of the mechanics began
to be thought of in relation to what the group
wanted to do, rather than the reverse, as had at
first been true. Here was a job to be done which
brought all together into a satisfying relationship.
In this process differences tended to be forgotten.

Ministers of various denominations and races
came to speak at playground assemblies and to talk
with the children in smaller groups. Soldiers on
leave naturally gravitated to the playgrounds
where they were made welcome. Children were
delighted to talk with their local neighborhood
heroes. Respect and good will were thus spread
both among adults and children. -

Following the community intercultural partici—
pation, stressed by Junior Red Cross, one play-
ground regularly scheduled evening programs of
outdoor social dancing and movies. These at-
tracted boys and girls who were older than the six
to thirteen age group participating during the day.
It was found that, on numerous occasions, as many
as one-third of the group coming to see the movies,
furnished by Civilian Defense and the local War
Loan Office, were adults. This playground thus
became a real socializing and unifying force in a
Polish, Italian, Irish, Negro neighborhood.

The Junior Program

Original games, songs and singing games which

226

stressed democratic values were used in the junior
playground program. A number of these origi-
nated in the schools of Philadelphia where they
weretried out before their use in the summer. The
following illustrate the nature of these suggested
play activities:

Six Pins—A game first used by Fellowship
House, Philadelphia.- Thirteen to fifteen-year-old
boys drew hgures representing prejudice, ignor-
ance, rumor, race hatred, religious hatred, fear, on
heavy wall-board, glued blocks on the back, set
them up fifteen feet from the goal line, and tried
to knock them down with a “brotherhood ball.”
On one playground four sets of “pins” were made
and used until they were completely worn out.

Good Neighbors—Children form ring, one in

center, and sing :

Neighbor, neighlbor, ’cross the way i
What can I do for you today?

The child in the center answers by naming any

service he can think of, sung to the same tune.
Viz: You can wash the dishes for me
That will help me grea—at—ly!
or

You can mind the [baby or go to
the store, and the like.

The child in the center bows to a little girl or curt-
sies to a boy whose turn it becomes.

 

It Pays to Be Dijjerent—The group makes a
circle and chooses a player to be “It.” To the tune
of Reuben, Reuben, they sing the following verses

to him:
 .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. (insert child’s name)
I’ve been thinking
What a dull world this would the.
If the children who live in it
All looked just like you and me!
Choose a partner who looks different,
If you’re small, choose someone big,
If your hair’s yellow, find a dark head,
And together, dance a jig.

“It” stands outside the circle.- He describes a

second player’s hair, clothes, appearance. As soon
as the second player recognizes his own descrip-
tion, he begins to run outside the circle. “It” tries
to catch him before he can return to his own place
in the circle. If he is not caught, he is “It.” If
caught, both pIayers link arms, and skip around

RECREATION

I
I

‘ AUGUST 1948

the circle of the tune of the first verse, stop—-
ping back of person they agree to select as “It.”

As can be readily seen, the democratic emphasis
went far beyond immediate neighborhoods and the
people who live in them. National and world
unity were stressed throughout. This was done
in many different ways.

The observant and enterprising director of the
North Light Boys’ Club Summer Playground no—
ticed the lack of understanding children showed in
assembly programs in respecting the Pledge of
Allegiance. It was apparent that the children were
reciting mere sounds. In some cases they were
running words together, such as “pledgeallegiance”
not realizing that there were two words involved.
Certainly many had no conception of the meaning.

During the balance of the summer playground
session the children, with the leader, spent part of
each assembly period in questioning, analyzing
and substituting new words upon which they
agreed and which made sense to them. Below is
the Pledge in the original and in the translation.

I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

I promise loyalty to the fiag which flies over all the states
of our country.

AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STAN-D8, ONE NATION INDIVISIBLE

and to the government of free people 'for which it stands,
one group of people—of many races and religions, yet
undividable.

WITH LIBERTY AND JU'STICE FOR ALL.
with fairness to all and freedom to work, talk and pray
for every one of us.

Supplementary Activities

The Junior Red Cross of the Southeastern
Pennsylvania Chapter made available to cooperat—
ing playgrounds a number of 16 mm. sound films,
which showed the ways of living in various sec—
tions of the United States and the life of the chil-
dren and the peoples of other countries of the
world. In the first, or American unity group, were
such films as The Cattleman, The Corn Farmer,
A Heritage We Guard, The Story of Dr. Carver,
and The River. Films which showed the life of

people in other lands included M exico Builds a’

Democracy, People of Canada, Peoples of Western
China, Russian Folk Dances and World of Plenty.
During the summer there were 150 showings of
such films to 3,748 children. The films were par-
ticularly effective when the children were‘reading,
discussing and engaging in art activities which
involved the ways of living in various sections of
the United States and in foreign countries.
Different ideals and ways of living were sym-
pathetically explored in other ways. Children read

'\

and discussed stories of peoples of other lands
which had appeared in recent issues of the Junior
Red Cross News. They made flags of the United
Nations from both paper and cloth. They drew
and colored the costumes of children of various
races. Scrapbooks were made on the United Na—
tions as well as the national groups which are help-
ing to build America.

The Junior Red Cross distributed a materials’
kit to the directors of all cooperating playgrounds
and camps. Creative‘adult leaders made fine use
of these materials. One able teacher dramatized a
story Who Built the Bridge,* which was in a col—
lection of st01ies made available to her by Junior
Headquarters. The dramatization took the form
of a stick puppet show, the puppets representing
the United Nations. As the foregoing playground
and summer camp program indicates, the Junior
Red Cross is attempting to develop the democratic
attitudes and habits in children which are neces—
sary in building a better community, a better
America, and a better world. This is perhaps as
significant an undertaking as one can find in the
world today. It is an undertaking in which all
educational youth agencies must cooperate. The
initial success of this Junior Red Cross program
demonstrates that children and adults alike re—
spond to a significant challenge.

It is hoped that this program, as developed in
the Philadelphia area, may be helpful to others
who are engaged in the significant task of guiding
the young people of today.

 

*Council Against Intolerance in America, Americans All, 17
East 42 Street, New York 17, page 18.

 

Moments of fun for all at a Jersey City playground.

227

 

Swimming for Seattle youngsters—a Red Feather Service.

Flying AmbassadorsmFive hundred Ameri—
can youths are helping to promote international
good will this summer in the largest youth air
travel program ever undertaken. Under the
sponsorship of Youth Argosy Incorporated of
Northneld, Massachusetts, seventeen to twenty-
five-year-old boys and girls have been flying,
via Transocean Airlines, to Geneva, Shannon,
Brussels, Paris and other European cities.
Flights have been carrying approximately for—
ty-six passengers each and have been on a
three-a-week basis from June 20 into July, with
return schedules approximately sixty days
later. The youths, traveling in groups of ten in
Europe, are under supervised leadership. Some
are visiting the continent to studyflanguages or
to attend summer schools at universities in
Oslo, Leyden and Fontainebleau. Members of
the American Youth Hostels are bicycling
through European towns, While others of the
air argosy are aiding in restoring youth hostels
destroyed by war.

0

The Importance of Being Supervised—It
seems that the number of broken windows in
schools are showing a slight but steady increase
each year. The Board of Education of New York
City spent $100,000 to replace I 76,000 broken
panes of glass in the city’s public schools during
the last academic year. Harold D. Hynds, super—
intendent of the Bureau of Plant Operation and
Maintenance, stated that the principal reason for
the breakage was the increased use of play areas
situated adjacent to school buildings. He pointed

228

out that many of these playgrounds are unpaved
and that ball games and other vigorous athletic
activities often dislodge small stones which are
kicked against the windows. Mr. Hynds observed
that in cases where vandalism was the cause of
window breakage such mischief was not centered
in underprivileged areas but prevailed wherever
the playgrounds were not paved. “It should also
be realized,” he continued, “that there has been a
great increase year after, year in the use of school
yards for after—school play. We feel that the an—
swer to the amount of glass breakage is in provi-
sion for increased supervision of play areas.”

Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt also recently remarked
that it is recreation under proper supervision
which keeps young people out of trouble. The
importance of recreation in the lives of young peo-
ple was stressed in an address at a dinner given in
her honor by the National Association of Girls
Clubs and Mixed Clubs in London, England. “We
often tend to emphasize problems of the home,
education, religious training and also proper nour-
ishment,” Mrs. Roosevelt said, “but the impor—
tance of recreation in the lives of young pe0ple
cannot be overlooked.”

o

Softball Program—The Veterans of Foreign
Wars, with the approval of the Amateur Softball
Association of the. United States, is sponsoring
and administering a nation-wide softball tourna-
ment for boys between nine and seventeen years
of age. For further details, write to the Veterans,
Athletic and Recreation Association, Broadway at
34th Street, Kansas City 2, Missouri.

RECREATION

Day Camping in Michigan“

E. V. Blohm

AY CAMPING 0N Michigan State Park lands

made an impressive beginning during the
summer of I947. Sponsoring organizations and
agencies have become aware of opportunities and
possibilities and have already taken advantage of
them. As another summer approaches, those with
one season’s experience are developing plans and
programs. Others are visualizing similar programs
of their own.

Adaptability of Day Camping

The Muskegon Recreation Department spon—
sored an eight weeks’ program at the Muskegon
State Park, nine miles from the city, in which
slightly more than 700 children participated. Bud-
get difficulties in this project were met by the
vigorous support of the CIO and AFL.

The public schools of Van Buren county (ten
city schools and a number of rural schools) pro-
vided new learning experiences for 924 fifth and
_ sixth grade pupils last spring at the Van Buren
State Park, with another program in the fall.
School buses were used for transportation and
some of the children were transported as far as
forty miles, round trip. The youngsters studied
science, geography, birds, animals, and trees, as
well as art, in a natural outdoor laboratory.

The Board of Education, Essexville, sponsored
a program at the Bay City State Park during the
month of August. Boys and girls, thirty-live at a
time, alternated on trips to the park during week
days. Although Bay City State Park is not espe—
cially large (I79 acres), a record attendance of
1,282,163 park patrons is listed for the 1947 sea-
son. Transportation distance was about twenty
miles, round trip.

AUGUST 1948

 

Girl Scouts at Ludington and Roseville, who
could not find accommodations at established
camps, used Ludington State Park and the Dodge
Number 8 State Park of the Rochester—Utica
Recreation Area. Almost 200 girls, therefore,
enjoyed the advantages and pleasures of camp life
-—-which otherwise they might have been denied—
through day camping.

The Department of Recreation, Pontiac, organ—
ized a four weeks’ day camp at the Highland State
Recreation Area and, because of energetic interest
and support from local service clubs and industry,
eighty—six girls, from seven to thirteen years of
age, were transported thirty miles, five days a
week. At Cadillac and at Gladwin, city recreation
programs involved the use of the Mitchell and
Gladwin State Parks for the entire summer. The
programs included swimming, handcraft, and typi-
cal playground games.

Day Camping Is Deiined

Briefly, day camping is a situation providing
outdoor living- and learning experiences in the en—
vironment of a regular camp. Activities and pro-
grams follow usual group-camp patterns, the chief
difference being that day campers do not stay over—
night at the camp site. They come to the location
each day to resume camp life and stay for one
meal, usually lunch. They return to their homes
to sleep and for morning and evening'nieals.

Day camping is distinguished from outings and
picnics, excursions, hikes and other day activities,
by the fact that its program has a continuity of
purpose extending over a longer period of time.

 

*Reprinted by permission of .Michigan Conservation Magazine.

229

Day Programs Can Convert into Day
Camping Programs

Once a location is established and children are
on hand to participate, it seems to become a more
or less simple matter gradually to practice day
campng principles.

Of greater importance is the high prevalent in-
terest in day camping shared by groups partici—
pating with the Michigan Departments of Conser-
vation and Public Instruction: For some time the
Department of Public Instruction and the Con—
servation Department have joined in an enterprise
to develop and provide outdoor recreation oppor-
tunities. The Department of Public Instruction
is working with teacher training colleges in devel—
oping more adequate pre-service and in—service
training programs for day camping so that trained
leadership will become available.

The Conservation Department’s system of state
parks, located in practically every section of the
state, helps to solve the problem of locating day
camp sites. Other problems imposed by day camp-
ing includes finances, staff personnel, and leader-
ship for program planning and program conduc-
tion. In many instances, a suitable camp location
and the transportation to it require much consid—
eration. Private property owners are often under—
standing, but, generally, do not wish to lend their
property for the use of groups of youngsters.
Publicly-owned lands, particularly state parks, be-
cause most of them are equipped with necessary
sanitary accommodations, can and do provide ex-
cellent day camp sites. It is significant that most
park use by the public at large occurs on week-ends.
Day campers generally prefer week days, which,
fortunately for them, are the days the average park
patron must devote to making a living. The com-
petition for space is, therefore, negligible.

Methods of Financing

City recreation department directors have agreed
that day camping and other outdoor activities pos-
sess high program values. As they are experienced
in group leadership and general recreation pro-
grams, they can easily, therefore, expand their pro-
grams and take the very important first step with-
out difficulty. To assist them and other interested
groups, a number of workshops and extensions are
planned by the two state departments which will
bring together educators, recreation persons, social
agency groups and lay groups.

Obviously there are ways to meet problems of
unance which, in part, also involve the problems
of competent personnel and transportation. Trans-
portation and some financial assistance were pro—

230

vided to some day camp groups during the 1947
summer by willing volunteers—enlisted and so-
licited from various social, civic and service clubs.
By statute, wherever a board of education admin—
isters a recreation program during the school year
or during the summer, school busses may be used
to transport children. In some instances, fraternal,
labor, and other groups subscribe generously to
support a program which they know involves the
health and worthy use of the leisure time of the
youngsters of their communities.

Day camping programs can begin modestly and

grow with experience. Campers and leaders can

learn together. Experience is a good teacher and
it is a positive way of learning.

It is true that everyone is not familiar with
programs involving nature and outdoor activities
but the fact cannot be denied that the more familiar
programs can be adapted to day camping. In real—
ity, day camping is a simple medium by which
youngsters make contact, often for the first time
in their lives, with the pleasures to be found in
the great outdoors. They develop an understand-
ing and a friendliness toward it because of the
close natural associations.

Day Camping Is Inexpensive

During 1947, slightly more than three thousand
boys and girls participated in day camping in
Michigan State Parks. It is expected that partici-
pation in 1948 will greatly exceed this figure. The
general popularity of day camping and acceptance
of the fact that it is good for school—age youngsters
point toward this.

By comparison, it is a most inexpensive form
of recreation and education, providing opportunity
for unique uses of the things we have on hand.
There is no limit to the utilization of what is pro—
vided in a natural playfield of woods, streams,
wild life, and the earth itself. Duplication of play-
ground sports, games, and equipment is, therefore,
not necessary or desirable. There are 130,000
acres of state park lands which can be placed at
the disposal of organizations that are interested in
day camping.

No one yet has discovered a satisfactory sub-
stitute for the outdoors where fresh air and sun—
shine are abundant, where sharing with others is
learned, and where the road to discovery and ad-
venture is never closed. In the wake of the care—
less waste of so many of our natural resources—
forests, soils, wildlife, minerals and clean waters—
and in the face of current acute social problems,
particularly as they involve youngsters, perhaps
day camping will find its place as a contributing
equalizing agent.

RECREATION

Recreation

Aqua-Square Dancing

Hopping. and skipping about on warm, humid
days doesn’t bother the square dance enthusiasts of
Tyler, Texas. Down that way, they do their d0-
si-do’ing in a pool of cool water. This bright idea
was born last year when there was a need for en-
tertainment between the two halves of the annual
city school summer meet. The local square dance
group volunteered their talents and the result was
both novel and entertaining. Costumes for the
performance were carefully planned. The girls
wore gingham blouses over their bathing suits and
smoked corn-cob pipes which had been tilled with
dry ice and, when wet, gave forth steam that re-
sembled smoke. The men wore bathing trunks,
colored shirts and bright oil cloth bandanas around
their necks. When the spotlight was turned on,
there they were———a11 in position and ready to go,
with band and caller tuning-up on the banks. It
was a picture of good old-fashioned barn dancing
with a very modern twist.

Attention, Square Dancers!

Need new music? Have you a caller in- your
community? Anyone to lead square dances? All
these are included on the new twelve-inch square

dance records just put out in three“ albums by Ed
Durlacher—ace caller.

You may have seen Ed Durlacher at the New
York World’s Fair, or at the Pepsi-Cola dances
in New York City parks, where as many as 600
sets took part. Or you may have heard him on
his National Broadcasting Company program, Or
on television shows, or in his MGM movie shorts.
He has been interviewed by Fred Allen, Lowell
Thomas, Jinx F alkenburg, Adelaide Hawley; has
been written up by Look, Glamour, the American
Magazine, the Saturday Evening Post, to mention
just a few. And the good news for those of you
who will be at the National Recreation Congress,

AUGUST 1948

Suggestion

Box

 

is that Ed will be there, too—giving instruction in
the line art of square dance calling, and in the
dances themselves.

A “different” and very good feature of the Dur—
lacher records is the oral walk—through instruc-
tions on each, followed by music with Eddie calling
the dance. Each call is clearly distinct. Eddie’s
band, The Top Hands, will take your feet right
off the door with: “Susanna,” “Honolulu Baby,”
“Duck for the Oyster,” “Texas Star,” and others;
all you need for a good hoe-down. You can skip
hiring a caller—which reminds us . . .

Why not try out the records and learn the calls
from Eddie? They can then be applied to any
music with the same beat. Square dance calling is
important, and good callers are needed in so many
local communities. The very existence of a square
dance program may depend on it. (There is good
money in it, too.) You’d be surprised how it
“brings out” shy pe0ple, and how many have
.learned to do it! It is one sure way of being popu-
lar at a party.

“Honor Your Partner,” Albums Nos. I, II and III,
Square Dance Associates, 102 North Columbus Avenue,
Freeport, Long Island. $10.00 each,

A Few Guide-posts

For those submitting manuscripts for possible
publication in RECREATION magazine:

1. Please send in original typed copy, not a carbon.

I

2. Be sure that typing is double-spaced [between the lines;
that manuscript has wide margins; that author’s name
and identification appear on first page. In addition,
state the approximate number of words in the article,
on an upper corner of the first page.

3. Please include photographs (glossy prints) whenever
possible. Try to have each picture tell a story. Avoid
using paper clips on photographs, as they leave marks.
See article, Simple Rules for Good Pictures, in the
December 1947 issue of RECREATION, or send for a
reprint. Also see “To Our Readers and Contributors,”
page 195, this issue.

231

34 eatre Waite-up *

J. P. Milhous

EMEMBER THE LAD in the school play whose
disgusted mother had to point him out to his
obtuse father: “Why, he’s the second carrot from
the end!” Well, making every allowance for the
dumbness of the male parents, perhaps it was the
make-up which was most at fault.

Stage lights, whatever their number and candle-
power, distort. That is the chief reason for making
up. And the chief object is naturalness. If your
audience goes away unaware that the actors have
been made up, you have done'a rare job.

Simple make-up, in principle, is simply making
up for the fact that we are accustomed to viewing
faces lighted from above; whereas, on stage, foot
flood and other lights distort. Therefore, the one
unalterable rule is: experiment.

Rehearse your make-up as you do your play-—
on stage, with lights, costumes, and scenery as the
audience will view it. Under these conditions, any
make-up which is noticeable is bad.

Perhaps the most frequent errors amateurs ex-
hibit are:

1. Too much rouge and lipstick, or these unblended.

2. Base: too dark, too bright, or too much.

3. Too much eye shadow and mascara.

4. Too little or too infrequent powdering, especially of
lines and shadows. Certainly it is better to use too
little than too much of anything.

Because skins offer amazing variety in absorp-
tion, and the like, it is rare that one finds the exact
base color best suited to the individual without
blending, either in the palm of the hand or directly
on the skin. You can put a streak of each color
on cheeks, forehead, chin, and nose, and rub them
together on the face, taking care to make up the
ears, _behind the ears (on men) and the neck as
far as it is visible. Tube make-up, being soft, is
more difficult to work in such a way. Many manu-
facturers of make-up advertise a kit with an as-
sortment of base colors. We have found it more
economical to buy the basic colors that we know
we will use, since some of those included in the
kit are rarely used and are therefore wasted.

On male characters the obvious use of rouge

 

U “.Reprintedf f‘nnm_ Virginia Drama News, Extension Division of
mversxty o irgmia.

232

and lipstick will ruin your illusion in addition to
making your lads extremely unhappy. Therefore.
it is well to use as little as possible and still avoid
corpse-like appearances. We have found it advis—
able to avoid outlining the lips of male characters
with lipstick, because it gives them a made-up look.
We find that moist rouge, put in the center of the
lips and worked out to the corners of the mouth,
does the trick. Girls usually know how to put on
their lipstick and rouge, although they occasionally
'feel that they must wear some Strange and exotic
shade because they are in a play.

As for eyes, dark lines on the upper and lower
lids as close to the lashes as possible are neces-
sary to keep the eyes from “getting lost.” How-
ever, unless eye Shadow is used very sparingly and
very skillfully, even the ingenue is apt to look like
the result of a misspent life. Lashes heavily beaded
with mascara are not good. Usually the eyebrows
need a touch of pencil unless they are very heavy
and dark, and even then frequently need to be
lengthened with the pencil.

Lines in the face should be applied lightly at
first and should follow the natural lines. Of course,
when very young people are being made up for
elderly characters, it becomes necessary to put lines
where you think tempom and mores will place
them. Lining for character parts must be done by
experimenting on each individual. The color liner
used depends on the, persons, the lights, and the
stage. Eyebrow pencil,‘however, is not recom-
mended as a liner. To gray or whiten the hair we
have found paste or liquid white shoe polish very
practical. It does not shake out nor have to be
re-applied frequently and can,be combed into the
hair so that it looks very natural. (It will also
bring protests from your subject after the first
times he tries to get it out. Be firm!)

In summary, the best advice, if you have felt
that you needed to read an article like this, is to
forget all or nearly all you have read, seize upon
the more defenseless of your victims, and smear
them to taste. Nobody ever yet learned much of
anything from a book, and rather less about make-
up. Besides, it all comes out in the wash!

RECREATION

A MUSIC CENTER and How It Grew

C. A. Emmons

T 18 NO longer necessary for high school stu~
dents to tuck their musical instruments away

on a shelf upon leaving school in Bloomfield, New
Jersey. In their town there now exist musical
groups into which they can carry their talents.

It was in 1932 that Bloomfield’s local public
recreation program had begun to grow up, the de—
partment having been formally organized in 1928.
The summer and after-school playgrounds, base—
ball and basketball leagues, gym classes, and one
boys’ club had all been flourishing—but the har-
monica band enjoyed only indifferent success. We
sort of wished aloud that we might find a local
man who could undertake to conduct an orchestra.
In 1931, our wish was granted: Mr. Walter Kur-
kewicz offered to form and lead a symphonic or-
chestra, and we were on our way. A sum suffi—
cient to cover the cost of such a venture was in-
cluded in the proposed budget for 1932 and ap-
proved by the Board of Recreation. Commissioners
and the Town Council.

Early that year, an invitation was broadcast, to
anyone and all who could play an instrument, to
join Bloomfield’s newly-formed Symphony Or-
chestra. About fifty people attended the initial
rehearsal, and about thirty more came during the
next several weeks. It took a vivid stretch of

imagination to see that group ready to give a for- '

mal concert sometime in May, but “Kurk” felt
assured that the orchestra would be prepared.
The personnel represented many different job
categories, with an age range from seventeen to
seventy.

On May 26, 1932 the Bloomfield Symphony Or-
chestra made its debut before an audience of eleven
hundred music lovers. The orchestra made an-
other appearance in the late fall of that year, and
this time collection baskets were passed to help
defray the cost of our musical programs. The fifth
concert was broadcast over station WOR, as was
the concert given a year later. By this time, the
size of the orchestra had doubled. October 19,
1947 marked its sixty-third performance.

The success of the Bloomfield Symphony Or-
chestra led to the contemplation of a civic mixed

AUGUST 1948

chorus and our 1934 budget included an amount
sufficient to cover this addition. The evening of
January 2, 1934 was stormy, but forty enthusiastic
charter members of' the new Bloomfield Civic
Chorus appeared. “Kurk” said he could direct
the chorus too, and although instrumental music
was his forte, he himself took lessons in harmony
and from the start did wonders with this group of
voices, very few of which were trained. The chorus
was introduced at the May 1934 concert of the
orchestra and in 1935, numbering more than a
hundred voices, won the New Jersey Division
Cup at the Music Festival at the Polo Grounds in
New York. In December 1947, the Bloomfield
Civic Chorus made its forty-fifth appearance
before an audience of 1,600, singing Handel’s
“Messiah.”

During 1936 a number of people, deep in nos-
talgia, voiced a preference for an all-male chorus,
so into the 1937 budget went sufficient funds for
this third group, the Bloomfield Civic Glee Club.
“Kurk” again took over, and by May the group
was ready to appear with the orchestra at its anni—
versary concert. This ensemble, numbering forty
male voices, made several informal appearances
before parent-teacher groups, lodge meetings, and
at the county penitentiary—in addition to its for-
mal concerts.

The Bloomfield Federation of Music was born
in 1941. This became a successful effort to share
our plans and problems with interested townspeo-
ple, both within and outside of the three musical
groups.

During the early years there was some appre-
hension as to the permanency of the music pro-
gram—in neighboring communities, orchestras
and choral groups had been short-lived—but
Bloomfield’s still operates strongly. Ten indoor
concerts and six outdoor concerts were given in
1947. Audiences of the indoor concerts at the
High School or Junior High School auditoriums
averaged one thousand, and several thousand at-
tended each of the outdoor concerts.

The Federation is composed of hundreds of
members who pay a dollar per year for a partici—

233

pating or associate membership, and five dollars
and up for a sustaining membership. The recrea—
tion department pays the salary of “Kurk” and
school rental costs; the Federation assumes all
other costs, and has been able to finance all new
plans for the expanded music program. Thus,
through the department, the town’s annual sub-
sidy amounts to approximately $3,000, and the
Federation’s share is almost all of that. Basket
collections at the indoor concerts total approxi-
mately $1,200 yearly, and these funds are chan-
neled through the Federation. The combined music
libraries are valued at thousands of dollars. The
local press and the Newark press are generous
with space. Young artists appear as guest soloists,
and there is always a waiting list.

With the formation of the Federation it would
now be possible to form a municipal band and to
award scholarships to deserving students. Subse-
quently both took place. We even organized the
Bloomfield Mandolin Orchestra. Uniforms for
the band were purchased in an interesting man-
ner. The town’s July 4th fireworks diSplay had
for some years been financed by way of an admis-
sion charge for the 6,500 seats of the concrete
stand in the stadium; some 10,000 bleacher seats
were free. Upon the occasion of the 1947 display,

A Chinese artist

returns from Europe . . .

at the suggestion of the Mayor, there was a
twenty-live cents charge for all seats. This sur-
plus, amounting to $1,200, paid three-quarters of
the uniform bill; the Federation paid the balance. .
This year’s surplus will buy another dozen uni-
forms plus new gowns for the Civic Chorus.

In May of last year, the Federation provided
the auspices for the Festival of Song presented by
the New Jersey Federation of Music Clubs. This
was an undertaking of no mean proportions, but
the Federation was equipped to do the job and
do it well.

Our formula for success? There isn’t any. Our

‘ several hundred participants maintain a very high

interest and the leadership is able and enthusiastic.
Many people attend all of the concerts; others
prefer to hear the classics or lighter music. Our
groups are amateur, but not amateurish. Zeal on
the part of the members of the Executive Council
of the Bloomfield Federation of Music and a more
than passing interest on the part of the members
of the Board of Recreation Commissioners, and
of the Mayor and Town Council, are other im-
portant factors. BloOmfield has indeed become a
music center. Perhaps there is a formula after all,
for here it is music “of the people, by the people,
and for the people”—democracy in action.

A Dance Federation ls Formed

Walter Grothe

CHINESE ARTIST of San Francisco—Mr.

Soong Chang—took a trip through Europe
in 1937, and was intrigued with the folk dances
that he saw there. He brought a few of them back
to California and showed them to some of his
friends. That was the beginning of folk dance
activities in this state. From this nucleus of
friends, the first group—uChang’s International
Folk Dancers—was founded. By 1942 twelve
groups had sprung into existence in the San Fran-
cisco Bay Region and, on the occasion of a grape
and wine festival at Lodi, California, a small coun-
try town in the grape district, Mr. Henry Glass
invited these groups to form a federation. This

234

idea was enthusiastically accepted, and in 'that
year the Folk Dance Federation of California came
into being. It was organized for the purpose of
encouraging the enjoyment of folk dancing and its
related arts, to promote a spirit of friendship and
tolerance, to provide for and conduct monthly fes-
tivals, and to encourage research in authentic
dance forms.

From 1942 to the present day, the folk dance
movement has grown from the original twelve
groups and a total membership of about four hun-
dred dancers tomore than one hundred twenty
groups and more than ten thousand members.

Because of the existence of a unified federation,

' RECREATION

the folk dance movement has spread over the en-
tire state and today there is hardly a community
which does not have a folk dance group. Each
member group is a unit in itself, with officers and
a treasury, teaching and a dance program, but all
are joined in the state federation and all participate
in the monthly festivals. Two festivals are held
each month, one in the northern and one in the
southern part of the state, and are scheduled at
different locations each time with one or more of
the member groups acting as host. A thousand or
more dancers attend these festivals regularly and
five to ten thousand spectators are not unusual.

In addition, the federation sponsors many other
activities, such as a yearly state-wide festival, spe-
cial performances, demonstrations, exhibitions, and
leadership institutes. It is officially recognized by
all schools, universities, cities and the state, and
there is hardly a civic affair in which it is not asked
to participate. Its general repertoire consists of
about one hundred fifty dances of all nations, with
definite authentic patterns established by the Fed-
eration’s Research Committee.

The Research Committee meets regularly, goes
thoroughly into the background of each dance be-
fore it is taught and publishes its findings and
detailed dance descriptions in book form, under
the title “Folk Dances from Near and Far.” This
book is used as a basis for teaching in each group
so that all will have the same background and,
therefore, be able to dance together at the festivals.
The federation also publishes a monthly magazine
“Let’s Dance,” which assists dancers with their
problems, informs them of all planned activities
and carries articles of interest.

Membership in the federation is open to all
groups, regardless of color, creed or political affili-
ation, as long as the group is not primarily organ-
ized for commercial or nonrecreation purposes. It
is one of the strongest policies of the federation to
ban any form of commercialism in the folk dance
movement. Most groups are sponsored by a school,
university, city recreation department, YMCA,
YWCA or community social clubs. There are
practically no ethnological groups in California and
the members of the folk dance groups are people
from all walks of life, wealthy and poor, children,
teen-agers, the middle aged, and people with white
hair. All have one common interest: folk dancing.

In an age where the balance of recreation de-
mands other outlets besides that of casual onlooker
at a football or basketball game or other nonpar-
ticipating recreation, the Folk Dance Federation
offers a noncommercial type of recreation that pro-
vides not only recreation but wide experience in

AUGUST 1948

 

“Frydal Polska”

practising the democratic concept within our state-
wide and local organizations. It offers pe0ple and
families a way of enjoying themselves thoroughly,
and it has given thousands of people a different
and more wholesome outlook on life.

The development of leaders for school groups,
girls’ groups, such as the Camp Fire Girls and
the Girl Scouts, for night schools, church groups,
has taken place under the trained leadership with-
in the federation. This development owes the suc-
cess of its heightened activities to the folk dance
movement. Generally speaking, the Folk Dance
Federation is one of the most important sources
for providing and training new leaders to carry on
the concomitant values of folk dancing with these
various groups.

The scope of the activities of the federation is
constantly increasing. The demand is so great
that monthly festivals are no longer sufficient. The
largest auditoriums in the state are not large
enough to hold the number of dancers who want
to attend the affairs. It has, therefore, been neces-
sary to arrange for regional festivals to take place
between the regular monthly gatherings. When-
ever the weather permits, festivals are held out-
of—doors, in parks, on college campuses, and so on.
Quite recently, enthusiasm has Spread to the teen—
age group, and the latest development is the hold-
ing of festivals for teen-agers only.

One of the outstanding and stimulating factors
of the festivals is the wearing of costumes. While
at first dancers came in ‘ordinary clothes, today
one hardly sees a dancer who does not wear a cos-
tume of some nationality. Often these costumes
are imported from the country of origin, but most
of them are made by the dancers themselves from
authentic patterns.

'Folk dancing is now recognized all over the
United States as highly desirable recreation and
cultural activity, and thanks to the federation,
California occupies a leading position in the na-
tional folk dance movement.

235

Rump [lb 020. age/a

Director of our national parks, Newton B. Drury, has served notice that unless vandalism is brought under
control, “the valuable and irreplaceable properties of the people in the national parks will undergo steady
deterioration and the areas will gradually lose their greatness and their beauty.” The trouble is attributed,

in part, to too few rangers on the job, inadequate service facilities, and an array of destructive individuals.

66 UMPUS RANGES” have been set aside in

R twenty-eight Michigan state parks to cope
with the vandalism problem. Youngsters who
have always wanted to remake the local park land-
scape can now do so under the guidance of “over-
seers” who will see that the tunnel and bridge-
building is done safely and that the tree chopping
and bonfires are confined to the proper areas.

Champion of the plan to lift ordinary confining
restrictions at these special ranges, or “project
areas” as they are known officially, is Arthur C.
Elmer, Chief of the Michigan Conservation De-
partment’s Parks and Recreation Division. He
believes that youngsters should have an “outlet for
their bursting energy” and that we should “help
them develop certain simple, but essential, outdoor
skills. In the main part of the parks, children are
subject to all sorts of ‘don’ts’ designed to protect
areas against damage and unauthorized use. But
by providing places where children under supervi-
sion may follow their natural inclination to have
wholesome fun in the woods, we are also providing
them with an opportunity to do something worth-
while and constructive.”

Boys and girls are advised to join together in
groups to decide what their “project” is to be—a
totem pole, cave, or what-not. They get a permit
for this and are turned loose in an unrestricted,
but supervised, area to create according to their
fancy. At Sleeper State Park, where the idea was
tried for the first time last year, a council ring with
stone fireplace and hewn log seats was built by
groups of Huron County school children. It was
a very good job and certainly a fine example of
constructive activity.

Other worthwhile projects on which the young-
sters may work, if they wish, are: building foot

236

bridges, stoning trail steps, making lean-to shelters
and constructing outdoor fireplaces. Some of the
young folks, as part of their own project, are going
to set up logs on which visitors to the park may
carve their initials. Carving logs have proved so
popular, and so valuable in diverting jackknives
from living trees and signs, that they are to be
established in all Michigan parks.

The summer group camp season, which is now
in full swing, is bringing several of the areas into
operation—although more activity is anticipated
on week-ends during the school year. But winter
or summer, boys and girls of Michigan will be able
to dig and chop, carve and whittle, learn to build
a fire, cook on it—and put it out l—so that, by
experience, they will better be able to appreciate
the out-of-doors.

 

 

If s 2

' l rules

\:,3_‘ I
\ka/O

 

Hillerich and Bradsby have released their 1948
editions containing information on the last
World Series and All-Star records, and illustrated
with pictures of major and minor league cham-
pions. The two books may be obtained from
Sporting goods dealers throughout the country.

RECREATION

Emergency!

E HAVE JUST HEARD that the playgrounds
in three North Carolina cities have been

closed because of a polio epidemic. The summer
program there has had to be radically revised, and
the recreation department will carry on its. work
through the local radio, press, and every other
possible means of reaching the families.

Could you completely revise your summer plans
if necessary? Have you adequate material from
which you could prepare. radio programs, news-
paper columns, or a bulletin service?

Have you a file of specialists who could help
with script writing, radio production, dramatic
and musical radio programs, storytelling programs,
home play suggestions?

Could you swing your active sports program
into a city-wide program for adults? Reach adults
you’ve never reached before?

Could you organize a “better backyard” contest?

Could you organize a Visiting Recreation Serv-
ice—send the leader to the children at home?

Could you work out a home bulletin service,
and a method for its free distribution?

Could you design and prepare a large exhibit
to be placed in a local bank or department store,
showing use of home-made equipment, home-
made toys, backyard and sidewalk games, and
other activities for home—bound or convalescent
youngsters?

Could you put on a training institute for par-
ents on the subject of home play?

Be Prepared! Build up your library and your
information file.

Get books and bulletins from the National Rec-
reation Association. If you wish to reprint, feel
free to do so—but please give us a credit line.

Look up the following articles in RECREATION:

February, 1944—Your Local Radio, a Salesman
for Recreation

December, 1944—Going on the Air?
March, 1945—Patterns for Publicity in Radio

August, 1945—Design for Promoting a Listen-
ing Audience

May, 1946——Recreation, Decatur, and Radio

March, 1948—A Two—way Street (Cooperation
Between Radio and Recreation)

If you do not subscribe to our regular bi—
monthly Bulletin Service, write us for the new,

specially prepared free bulletin of Emergency
Suggestions, order number MB 1945.

AUGUST 1948

NOW READY FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY

W

“Honor Your Partner”

recorded by

ED DURLACHER and
THE TOP HANDS

A NEW series of SQUARE DANCE
RECORDS pressed on the NEW
BROADCAST UNBREAKABLE VINY-
LITE for higher fidelity. For easy learn-
ing. each dance is preceded by ORAL
WALK-THROUGH INSTRUCTIONS.

with ten seconds of silence to square
all sets on the floor. followed by the
square dance with music and calls.

THREE I2 inch records in each album
at $|0.00 per album.

ALBUM #l—Susanna. Heads and
Sides. Honolulu Baby. Do-Si-Do and
Swing. Around the Outside and Swing.
Two Head Ladies Cross Over.

ALBUM #Z—Yankee Doodle. Sweet
Alice Waltz OuadriIIe. Duck for the
Oyster. Ladies Chain. Darling Nellie
Gray. Push Her Away. «

ALBUM #3—Loch Lomond. Ladies
Grand Chain Waltz OuadriIIe. Texas
Star. Left Hand Lady Pass Under. My
Little Girl. The Basket.

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES
|02 No. Columbus Ave.. Freeport. N. Y.

Please enter my order for the following albums
at $|0.00 each plus shipping charges collect:

No.. . . .AIbum No. | No.. . . .AIbum No. 2
No.. . . .AIbum No. 3
Enclosed find. . . .Check . . . .Money Order
. . . .Certified Purchase Order

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

“WE’LI. SEE YOU AT THE 30th CONGRESS”

 

237

Your
Community Chest

 

\. OA-
:0
m
.—
I‘. *‘Q
:6“

    
  
 
   
  
    
   
      
    
 
 
   
  

Fall brings golden leaves and apple cider and
RED FEATHERS. A million Americans are devoting

DIAMOND

their time and energy this autumn to help make a

success of their local Community Chest campaign. 5 u P E R R I N c E R
RED FEATHERS decorate the lapels of workers and Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
givers, line the streets and windows of your town forged from SPeelal carbon Steel, heat-

and ours from the Atlantic to the Pacific. treated to prevent chipping or breakirig' A
’ beautiful shoe deSIgned for profeSSIOnalS

Earn your RED FEATHER by plqumg your Share and for amateurs who know the value of a
for the RED FEATHER SERVICES In your nearest good shoe_

Community Chest. Give . . . give ENOUGH! 0

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outtits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

 

 

Officers and DireCtorS Of the - Diamond Standard Official Shoes
. . . . Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
National Recreauon Assoc1at1on Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President D  M o N D c A L K
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board H o R s E s H o E c o M P A N Y

ADRIAN M' MASS‘E' Treasurer . ' 4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT Woons BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUM MER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

I‘IARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITstRTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. 7ARBURG, New York, N. Y.

OFFICERS

 

" First Choice
for

£ very Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods

 

Don’t buy until you see our free. illustrated catalog. Write Today!

W. Z Distributors

sports equipment co. _ _ é o f
‘ POND DU LAC' WISCONSIN 5 Mr: r/Artsr I” nu- Iu'u: .1
 ‘    liAD[R5hl9 I MANUFACIUIING COM'INY o 51. LOUIS 3, MO.

238 RECREATION

          
   

       

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Parks and Recreation, March 1948

Planning and Design Today, Garrett Eckbo.

The Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois—Part II, John Barstow Morrill.

Municipal Operation of Built-Up Ice Rinks, Her-
bert Kipke and Carl Fenner.

Municipal Swimming Pools, C. P. L. Nicholls.

The Maintenance Mart.

The Foil, February 1948
Young Adults Need Recreation, Too, B. Louis

Mathern.
Organization of a Riding Program.

Youth Leaders Digest, March 1948
Are Girls ChildrenP, Harriette Aull, Catholic
Youth W ork.

Junior League Magazine, April 1948
Is Bees Bugs?, Russell Peterson.

School Life, March 1948
State Laws Permitting Wider Use of School
Property, Ward W. Keesecker.

American City, March 1948
Bromine for Swimming Pools?

Catholic Charities Review, March 1948
A Community Center Operated by Sisters.

Scholastic Coach, March 1948
Water Basketball, Giles F. Liegerot.

Journal of Health and Physical Education, March 1948
A Winter Sports School, George H. Krablin.

Authors in This Issue

ROSEMARY AND STEEVER OLDDEN—Live on sail-
boat in California; prime interest—cruising; des-
tination—unimportant. Article on page 196.

JOHN S. NAGY—Commissioner of Recreation in
Cleveland, Ohio. Article on page 199.

BILL SHARPEw-Manager, News Bureau, De-
partment of Conservation and Development, Ra-
leigh, North Carolina. Article on page 206.

CEDRIC AUSTIN—~Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation, Phoenix, Arizona. Article on page
215.

HARRIET BATT—«Assistant to Superintendent of
Recreation Board, Lincoln, Nebraska. Article on
page 218.

SAMUEL EVERETT -—- Director, Southeastern
Pennsylvania Junior Red Cross. Article on page
220.

E. V. BLOHM—Parks and Recreation Division,
Michigan. Article on page 229.

J. P. MILHOUS—Drama Department, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute. Article on page 232.

C. A. EMMONstuperintendent of Recreation
in Bloomfield, New Jersey. Article on page 233.

VVALTER GROTI—IE—President of Folk Dance
Federation of California. Article on page 234.

(A

 

“Camp Site Development"

By Julian Harris Salomon

Here is a complete and concise guide to the
planning and building ot a modern camp.

CAMP SITE DEVELOPMENT is packed
with usetul. practical data on all phases ot
the camp building problem. Though de-
signed to meet the particular needs of Girl

 
 

Scout camping. the plans and the principles of camp design are easily adaptable to the needs 0t all
organizations or individuals interested in building new camps or rebuilding old ones.

Beginning with directions tor the making at site plans and long-term development. the chapters
cover the subjects ot water supply. sewage disposal. roads. electric lines. administrative buildings.
dining halls. kitchens. campers' living quarters. winter cabins. beaches. lakes. swimming pools. docks
and other aquatic tacilities—tully illustrated by 53 tull-page. large-scale plates. Here are guides tor
the development ot the simplest tent camp or tor the permanent camp in which there are a variety

ot structures.

CAMP SITE DEVELOPMENT is a complete guide to the planning and building at a modern

camp that children will enioy. it is the most complete and up-to-date guide to camp building that
IS available today tor architects. engineers. builders. and tor Scout executives. camp directors. and

camping committee members.

Catalog No. 20-526. $4

GIRL SCOUTS of the U. S. A. — National Equipment- Service

245 Mission Street
San Francisco 5. Calit.

I55 East 44th Street
New York l7. N. Y.

I307 Washington Avenue
St. Louis 3. Mo.

 

AUGUST 1948

239

 

Extending Education Through Camping

Report of the School Camp Experiment, author-
ized by the Board of Education, City of New
York. Published by Life Camps, Incorporated,
369 Lexington Avenue, New York.

ms REPORT DESCRIBES a controlled experiment
T in which two teachers, trained at National
Camp the previous summer, accompanied a fifth
and seventh grade class to Life Camp for a three—
week period. It includes the detailed objectives of
education, and the place of camp experiences and
activities in the school curriculum. This section,
plus the section on the appraisal of the experiment,
will be of great interest to school officials who feel
that more study and information are needed before
camping can be accepted wholeheartedly as part
of a school program.

Recreation and camp leaders will be very much
interested in the section on camp set-up, schedules,
activities and programs. It is written from the
viewpoint of the youngsters, the counselors, and
several official visitors.

Craft Workit

By Shirley Silbert. New York University Book
Store, New York. $3.00.

EIGHT SEPARATE three-way folders, giving the
step—by-step procedures for fingerpainting,
spatter printing, stenciling, metal foil, papercraft,
clay work, puppetry and leathercraft are included
in this craft kit, which has its own manila envelope.
Each folder has interesting photographs and well-
organized material describing tools, material used,
progressive steps, and finished articles.

This kit is excellent for the beginner in crafts,
the student teacher, or the inexperienced leader,
and can be used by experienced crafts directors to

240

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

illustrate techniques. It is, however, elementary in
character, designed primarily to introduce crafts,

give sufficient techniques to arouse interest, and
teach simple skills.

HOT WEATHER SUGGESTIONS

Schuss Cuties and Spill Billies, by Barsis. Ste-
phen Daye Press, Brattleboro, Vermont. $3.00.

PUT THIS BOOK on your birthday or Christmas
list to give to any of your ski enthusiasts! Es-
sentially it is a collection of over forty ski cartoons
showing the frailties and foibles of skiers of both
sexes. The titles: Scary Mary, Mac on his Back,
Bess a Mess”, Frankie n0 Hankie, give a general
idea. They’re fun!

The book is designed so that each cartoon can
be removed; and a line of them framed, would
make a very clever decoration for a den, sports
lodge, or country cabin. Mr. Barsis suggests that
the book might also be used as a scrapbook or
photograph album. No matter how you use it, how-
ever, the cartoons will give you many a chuckle!

Games to Play on Skis, by Fritz Heinrich. Ste-
phen Daye Press, Brattleboro, Vermont. $.50.

THE GAMES IN this thirty-seven page pamphlet
are translated from'the German by Dinsmore
Adams, and illustrated in thirty-three diagrams.
They will be of interest to all recreation leaders
who promote a winter sports program. The pam-
phlet includes four sections: Bloodthirsty Games
for Beginners; Games for Hilly Country; Games
of Skill; and Exercises of Skill. The last section
would be helpful for planning ice carnivals or spe-
cial ski programs. It gives directions for bear-
dancing, ski-waltzing, rocking-chair runs, and
other unusual examples of skill.

RECREATION

The Hanson family of “I Remember Mama”
faced the future with confidence—a confidence
all due to Mama. “If anything goes wrong,”
said Mama, “there’s always my Bank Account
to pull us through.”

Things worked out fine for the Hansons. And
they never realized that Mama’s Bank Account
was Mama’s own myth.

But the average family can’t be fooled with
a myth. The average family needs reaI savings,

 

real security protecting them.

That's why so many families have begun
to save the automatic, worryless way—with

U. S. Savings Bonds that pay back four dollars
for every three in just ten years.

And to make it simpler still, your govern—
ment offers you two fine plans for their pur—
chase: (1) The Payroll Savings Plan at your
firm. (2) For those not on a payroll, the Bond—
A-Month Plan at your bank.

AUTOMATIO SAVING l5 SURE SAVING“ U.S. SAVINGS BONDS

 

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the m
Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

SECURITY

W

-.
cfHL l'a'

A leader is best

When people barely know that he exists,

Not so good when people obey and acclaim him.
Worse when they despise him.

Fail to honor people,

They fail to honor you,

But of a good leader, who talks little,
When his work is done, his aim fulfilled,
They will all say, “We did this ourselves.”

Lao-tse.

