 

1‘ |l.‘.-‘ (-r‘k',ll". I-.I"‘.i|‘.

M 'H.‘ [Vin (“my \ Mair-«Mb
I : vv;ll.. .

July 1948

 

Price 35 Cents

 

Contents

 

July 1948

Faith Is Also Needed, _ . _ _
by Raymond B. Fosdick (Editorial). 145 creatwe Aethtles

“Writing Is Fun” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152
An Apology for Idlers, 9 _
Robert Louis Stevenson . . . . . . . . . . . 147 The Play 5 the Thmg’
by Robert L. Dishon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166
You Can Keep Your Garden,
by Kay Thorne O u u . O O u . O . O O O O u . u .  A Fable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Report from Jackson’s Mill . . . . . . . . . . 158 What Place Arts and Crafts in Camp?
by Ann Mueller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167
Joseph Lee and “Play” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159 __   .
Craft- Materials in Nature,
Standards for MuniCiPal Recreation  by Eva 'L. Butler. .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 172

Areas, by George D. Butler . . . . . . . . 160 it: _  y --

Building the 1948 Congress . . . . . . . . . . 175 ‘7- ' . Regular. Features

A Visitor from Britain— World at Play . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . 179

Sir Noel Curtis-Bennett . . . . . . . . . . . 176 Recreation.suggestion Boxes...- . . . . . . . o . 185

People in Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 177 Magazinesrand Pampmet3_  . . . _ . _ . 139

Children Building Tomorrow . . . . . . . . . 178 Books Received . . . . . . .' . -.  . . . . 190

Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182 .:_Au_tlior3 'in This-155.11%: ‘3'- - - e - .-   - 190

In the Field . . . Grace Walker . . . . . .. 183-3"? Ne“; Publica‘iQP'e '- - - -   -. - - j  -- 191
To Those Who Care for America. . J. 187 I, Recreation Institutes. . .-~. .Inslde Back Cover

,‘V.

. .
'. ' . - - . .-- .-
. r f -. , _,.

      

 

  

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indébtéd‘ to: Gedge Harmon
for illustration on cover", Pach Brothers, New York, for
that on page'.;145; Loren H. Milliin'an, ‘editor, Farm Home
and Garden, Portland, Oregon, for that on page 151; A. S.
Barnes and fs'C'omp'any, New York, for those' o'f‘pBen Hogan,
pages 153-155; .Wilson Sporting Goods Coriipiiiiya Chicago,
Illinois, {oi-"that on page 157; Chicago Park' District for
- pilotographs of the negklace and nut iignréa on page 169;
Universal 5.11.561 of Handicrafts for that of handcraft tools,
. page 169‘; John Gass, Scarsdale, New York, for that on
page 176'3.’ American Recreation Society for that of Dr.
' Meyer, page 177; Chicago Park District for that on page 185.

Sports
Golf Clubs, by Ben Hogan. . ‘ . . . . . . . . . ' 153

Service in Tennis, by Helen Hull Jacobs 3156
Croquet and Mr. Cordell Hull. . . ..  . .3’ 2174. "'
The Modern Robin Hood . . . . . . . t. '1' . . 180

‘5 .
. I. - - ,3 .' _' ‘ ‘5.
s r ‘a , ‘ H: - _ \_ r
.o -

 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

 

.-

RECREATION is published monthly-tby'ihe National Recreatibii A'ssociatibn, formerly named Playground and'Recreation
Association of America, a service organisation supported voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.: is on file in public libraries ahd ‘is indexed iii-the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered aszsecond-
class matter June 12, 1928, at the Post, OHice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3. 1917, authorized May 1. 1924.

Copyright 1948. by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. 8.1K.

VOLUME FORTY-TWO. NUMBER FOUR @- "5

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 g5 G?[50 Weeded *BY RAYMOND B. FOSDICK

 

Recreation

July 1948

 

During the First World War Raymond B. F osdich: was chairman of both the War Department and the Navy Depart-
ment Commissions on Training Camp Activities, under which War Camp Community Service was carried on by the
National Recreation Association. He has been active in his support of the National Recreation Association for
more than thirty years, serving for a time on the Board of Directors. He is one of the pioneers who helped to
build the national recreation movement in the United States. Many, throughout the world, believe that this move-
ment has a very considerable part to play in helping to build the national and international faith that is needed.

OPE AND FAITH and the belief in the individ-
H ual in all his magnificence and misery are the
final criteria of worth.

What has broken down is man’s confidence in
himself and in his fellow-man. What has been lost
in large sections of the world is the relationship of
trust and those age-old values that came from Sinai
and the Areopagus of honor and truth and tolerance
and justice.

The sickness of the human soul cannot be relieved
by a diet of guns and machinery. “God knows we
need food and coal to survive,” said a European
delegate to Lake Success, “but unless America can
take the lead in providing a vital faith, in giving us
a song that mankind can sing, all her exports will
merely postpone the day of reckoning and the world
will die anyway.”

The past is littered with the wreckage of nations
and empires which tried to meet the crises of their
times by physical means alone. Unless we can rise
to greatness and lift our answers to a moral plane,
our fate will be the fate not only of the nations
that preceded us in history but of all species,
whether birds or brontosaurs, which specialized in
methods of violence or defensive armor.

But America has a song to sing that is not based
on an economic creed or dogma and that has
nothing to do with a catch-word like “free enter-
prise . . .” We, too, believed in a better future—a
better future for all men—and we believed in the
necessity and power of change to accomplish it.
There were no frightened conservators of the status
quo in the army of General Washington.

This is the tradition of America, and we must not

let the song die on our lips. The foundations of this
country were based on moral principles . . . Our
faith once captured the imagination of the world;
it can capture it again.

America is preoccupied with the task of raising
the material standards of living. In this ambition
we have been incomparably successful; our produc-
tive and consuming capacity is greater than that of
any other country in the world.

But the result is that our principal standards are
standards of quantity: we have more of everything
than anybody else—automobiles, refrigerators, ra-
dios, railroads. Consequently, our ideal is begin-
ning to be not so much a world peopled by wise and
happy men as it is a world in which “every family
has its automobile and every pot its chicken.” We
have too easily made the assumption that other
values would automatically follow our material well-
being, that out of our assembly lines and gadgets
the good life would spontaneously be born.

We cannot escape the obligation, in this scientific
age, to comprehend science; but in the supreme
question which faces our generation, physics and
chemistry and engineering have no answers for us.
. . . The dynamic tensions of our society can be
relieved only by moral and social wisdom, and that
kind of wisdom cannot be precipitated in a test tube
nor can it be won by the brilliant processes of nu-
clear physics . . . Its greatness, however, if achieved,
will consist in its search for an enlightened human-
ism and for rational and ethical values that will rise
above our time. . .

 

*From article in New York Times, June 6, 1948. Mr. Fosdick,
president of the Rockefeller Foundation, retired June 30, 1948.

145

 

FOREST OF FONTAINEBLEAU, Jean-Baptist-e-Camille Corot. Painted 1830-18
National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. (Chester Dale Collection—Low

‘

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

“BOSWELL: We grow weary when idle.

“JOHNSON: That is, sir, becanse others
being busy, we want company; but if we
were idle, there would be no growing
weary; we should all then entertain one

another.”

UST NOW, WHEN everyone is bound, under
J pain of a decree in absence convicting them of
Iése-reSpectability, to enter on some lucrative pro-
fession, and labour therein with something not far
short of enthusiasm, a cry from the opposite
party who are content when they have enough, and
like to look on and enjoy in the meanwhile, sa-
vours a little of bravado and gasconade. And yet
this should not be. Idleness so called, which does
not consist in doing nothing, but in doing a great
dealn not recognised in the dogmatic formularies of
the ruling class, has as good a right to state its
position as industry itself. It is admitted that the
presence of people who refuse to enter the great
handicap race for siXpenny pieces, is at once an
insult and a disenchantment for those who do. A
fine fellow (as we see so many) takes his deter-
mination, votes for the sixpences, and in the em-
phatic Americanism, “goes for” them. And while
such an one is ploughing distressfully up the road,
it is not hard to understand his resentment, when
he perceives cool persons in the meadows by the
wayside, lying with a handkerchief over their ears
and a glass at their elbow. Alexander is touched
in a very delicate place by the disregard of Diog—
enes. Where was the glory of having taken Rome
for these tumultous barbarians, who poured into
the Senate house, and found the Fathers sitting
silent and unmoved by their success? It is a sore
thing to have laboured long and scaled the ardu—
ous hilltops, and when all is done, find humanity
indifferent to your achievement. Hence physicists
condemn the unphysical; financiers have only a

 

*From “Travels and Essays.” Charles Scribner’s Sons, New
York. Reprinted by permission.

JULY 1948

superficial toleration for those who know little of
stocks ; literary persons deSpise the unlettered; and
pe0ple of all pursuits combine to diSparage those
who have none. '. '

But though this is one difficulty of the subject,
it is not the greatest. You could not be put in
prison for speaking against industry, but you can
be sent to Coventry for speaking like a fool. The
greatest difficulty with most subjects is to do them
well; therefore, please to remember this is an
apology. It is certain that much may be judiciously
argued in favour of diligence; only there is some—
thing to be said against it, and that is what, on
the present occasion, I have to say. To state one
argument is not necessarily to be deaf to all
others. . . .

It is surely beyond a doubt that people should
be a good deal idle in youth. For though here and
there a Lord Macaulay may escape from school
honours with all his wits about him, most boys
pay so dear for their medals that they never after-
wards have a shot in their locker, and begin the
world bankrupt. And the same holds true during
all the time a lad is educating himself, or suffering
others to educate him. It must have been a very
foolish old gentleman who addressed Johnson at
Oxford in these words: “Young man, ply your
book diligently now, and acquire a stock of knowl-
edge; for when years come upon you, you will find
that poring upon books will be but an irksome
task.” The old gentleman seems to have been un-
aware that many other things besides reading grow
irksome, and not a few become impossible, by the
time a man has to use spectacles and cannot walk
without a stick. Books are good enough in their

147

own way, but they are a mighty bloodless substi—
tute for life. It seems a pity to sit, like the Lady
of Shalott, peering into a mirror, with your back
turned on all the bustle and glamour of reality.
And if a man reads very hard, as the old anecdote
reminds us, he will have little time for thought.

If you look back on your own education, I am
sure it will not be the full, vivid, instructive hours
of truantry that you regret; you would rather
cancel some lack-lustre periods between sleep and
waking in the class. For my own part, I have
attended a good many lectures in my time. I still
remember that Emphyteusis is not a disease, nor
Stillicide a crime. But though I would not will-
ingly part with such scraps of science, I do not
set the same store by them as by certain other
odds and ends that I came by in the open street
while I was playing truant. This is not the mo-
ment to dilate on that mighty place of education,
which was the favourite school of Dickens and of
Balzac, and turns out yearly many inglorious
masters in the science of the ASpects of Life. Suf-
fice it is to say this: if a lad does not learn in the
streets, it is because he has no faculty of learning.
Nor is the truant always in the streets, for if he
prefers, he may go out by the gardened suburbs
into the country. He may pitch on some tuft of
lilacs over a burn, and smoke innumerable pipes
to the tune of the water on the stones. A bird will
sing in the thicket. And there he may fall into a
vein of kindly thought, and see things in a new
perspective. Why, if this be not education, what
is? We may conceive Mr. Worldly Wiseman
accosting such an one, and the conversation that
should thereupon ensue:

“How now, young fellow, what dost thou here P”

“Truly, sir, I take mine ease.”

“Is not this the hour of the class? And should’st
thou not be plying thy book with diligence, to the
end thou mayest obtain knowledge?”

“Nay, but thus also I follow after learning, by
your leave.”

“Learning, quotha! After what fashion, I pray
thee? Is it mathematics?”

“No, to be sure.”

“Is it metaphysics?”

“Nor that.”

“Is it some language?”

“Nay, it is no language.”

“Is it a trade?”

“Nor a trade neither.”

“Why, then, what is’t P”

“Indeed, sir, as a time. may soon come for me to
go upon pilgrimage, I am desirous to note what is
commonly done by persons in my case, and where

148

are the ugliest sloughs and'thickets on the road;
as also, what manner of staff is of the best service.
Moreover, I lie here, by this water, to learn by
root-of—heart a lesson which my master teaches me
to call peace, or contentment.”

Hereupon Mr. Worldly Wiseman was much
commoved with passion, and shaking his cane with
a very threatful countenance, broke forth upon
this wise: “Learning, quotha!” said he; “I would
have all such rogues scourged by the Hangman!” I

Now this, of Mr. \Niseman’s, is the common _
Opinion. A fact is not called a fact, but a piece of
gossip, if it does not fall into one of your scho-
lastic categories. An inquiry must be in some ac-
knowledged direction, with a name to go by; or else
you are not inquiring at all, only lounging; and
the workhouse is too good for you. It is sup-
posed that all knowledge is at the bottom of a
well, or the far end of a telescope. Sainte-Beuve,
as he grew older, came to regard all experience as
a single great book, in which to study for a few
years ere we go hence; and it seemed all one to
him whether you should read in Chapter XX.,
which is the differential calculus, or in Chapter
XXXIX., which is hearing the \band play in the
gardens. As a matter of fact, an intelligent person,
looking out of his eyes and hearkening in his ears,
with a smile on his face all the time, will get more
true education than many another in a life of
heroic vigils. There is certainly some chill and
arid knowledge to be found upon the summits of
formal and laborious science; but it is all round
about you, and for the trouble of looking, that you
will acquire the warm and palpitating facts of life.
While others are filling their memory with a lum-
ber of words, one—half of which they will forget
before the week be out, your truant may learn
some really useful art: to play the fiddle, to know
a good cigar,'or to speak with ease and opportu-
nity to all varieties of men. Many who have “plied
their book diligently,” and know all about some
one branch or another of accepted lore, come out
of the study with an ancient and owl-like de-
meanour, and prove dry, stockish, and dyspeptic
in all the better and brighter parts of life. Many
make a large fortune, who remain underbred and

W-

>
all...

  
 

RECREATION

pathetically stupid to the last. And meantime
there goes the idler, who began life along with
them-—by your leave, a different picture. He has
had time to take care of his health and his spirits;
he has been a great deal in the open air, which is
the most salutary of all things for both body and
- mind; and if he has never read the great Book in
very recondite places, he has dipped into it and
skimmed it over to excellent purpose. Might not
the student afford some Hebrew roots, and the
business man some of his half—crowns, for a share
of the idler’s knowledge of life at large, and Art
of Living? Nay, and the idler has another and
more important quality than these. I mean his
wisdom. He who has much looked on at the
- childish satisfaction of other peOple in their hob-
bies, will regard his own with only a very ironical
. indulgence. He will not be heard among the dog-
matists. He will have a great and cool allowance
' for all sorts of people and opinions. If he finds no
‘ out—of—the-way truths, he will identify himself with
no very burning falsehood. His way takes him
. along a by-road, not much frequented, but very
even and pleasant, which is called Commonplace
f Lane, and leads to the Belvedere of Commonsense.
Thence he shall command an agreeable, if no very
‘ noble prospect; and while others behold the East
and West, the Devil and the Sunrise, he will be
‘ contentedly aware of a sort of morning hour upon
- all sublunary things, with an army of shadows
running Speedin and in many different directions
into the great daylight of eternity. The shadows
and the generations, the shrill doctors and the
plangent wars, go by into ultimate silence and
- emptiness; but underneath all this, a man may see,
out of the Belvedere windows, much green and
.peaceful landscape; many firelit parlours; good
pe0ple laughing, drinking, and making love as they
did before the Flood or the French Revolution;
and the old shepherd telling his tale under the
hawthorn.

Extreme brztsyness, whether at school or college,
kirk or market, is a symptom of deficient vitality;
and a faculty for idleness implies a catholic appe-
tite and a strong sense of personal identity. There
is a sort of dead—alive, hackneyed people about,
who are scarcely conscious of living except in the
exercise of some conventional occupation. Bring
these fellows into the country, or set them aboard
Ship, and you will see how they pine for their desk
or their study. They have no curiosity; they can-
not give' themselves over to random provocations;
they do not take pleasure in the exercise of their
faculties for its own sake; and unless necessity
lays about them with a stick, they will even stand

lULY 1948

still. It is no good speaking to such folk: they
cannot be idle, their nature is not generous enough;
and they pass those hoursxin a sort of coma, which
are not dedicated to furious moiling in the gold-
mill. When they do not require to go to the office,
when they are not hungry and have no mind to
drink, the Whole breathing world is a blank to
them. If they have to wait an hour or so for a
train, they fall into a stupid trance with their-
eyes open. To see them, you would suppose there
was nothing to look at and no one to speak with;
you would imagine they were paralysed or alien-
ated; and yet very possibly they are hard workers
in their own way, and have good eyesight for a
flaw in a deed or a turn of the market. They have
been to school and college, but all the time they
were thinking of their own affairs. As if a man’s
soul were not too small to begin with, they have
dterarfed and narrowed theirs by a life of all work
and no play; until here they are at‘forty, with a
listless attention, a mind vacant of all material
of amusement, and not one thought to rub against
another, while they wait for the train. Before he
was breeched, he might have clambered on the
boxes; when he was twenty, he would have stared
at the girls; but now the pipe is smoked out, the
snuffbox empty, and my gentleman sits bolt up-
right upon a bench, with lamentable eyes. This
does not appeal to me as being success in life.

But it is not only the person himself who suffers
from his busy habits, but his wife and children,
his friends and relations, and down to the very
peOple he sits with in a railway carriage or an
omnibus. Perpetual devotion to what a man calls
his business, is only to be sustained by perpetual
neglect of many other things. And it is not by
any means certain that a man’s business is the
most important thing he has to do. To an impar—
tial estimate it will seem clear that many of the
wisest, most virtuous, and most beneficient parts
that are to be played upon the theatre of life are
filled by gratuitous performers, and pass, among
the world at large, as phases of idleness. For in
that theatre, not only the walking gentlemen, sing-
ing chambermaids, and diligent fiddlers in the
orchestra, but those who look on and clap their
hands from the benches, do really play a part and
fulfil important offices towards the general result.
You are no doubt very dependent on the care of
your lawyer and stockbroker, of the guards and
signalmen who convey you rapidly from place to
place, and the policemen who walk the streets for
your protection; but is there not a thought of
gratitude in your heart for certain other bene-
factors who set you smiling when they fall in your

149

way, or season your dinner with good company?
. . . Hazlitt mentions that he was more sensible
of obligation to N orthcote, who had never done
him anything he could call a service, than to his
whole circle of ostentatious friends; for he thought
a good companion emphatically the greatest bene-
factor. I know there are people in the world who
cannot feel grateful unless the favour has been
done them at the cost of pain and difficulty. But
this is a churlish disposition. A man may send you
six sheets of letter-paper covered with the most
entertaining gossip, or you may pass half an hour
pleasantly, perhaps profitably, over an article of
his; do you think the service would be greater if
he had made the manuscript in his heart’s blood
like a compact with the devil? . . . Pleasures are
more beneficial than duties because, like the quality
of mercy, they are not strained, and they'are twice
blest. . . . There is no duty we so much underrate
as the duty of being happy. By being happy, we
sow anonymous benefits upon the world, which
remain unknown even to ourselves, or when they
are disclosed, surprise nobody so much as the
benefactor. The other day, a ragged, barefoot boy
ran down the street after a marble, with so jolly
an air that he set every one he passed into a good
humour; one of these persons, who had been de-
livered from more than usually black thoughts,
stopped the little fellow and gave him some money
with this remark: “You see what sometimes comes
of looking pleased.” If he had looked pleased be-
fore, he had now to look both pleased and mysti-
fied. For my part, I justify this encouragement of
smiling rather than tearful children; I do not wish
to pay for tears anywhere but upon the stage; but
I am prepared to deal largely in the opposite com-
modity. A happy man or woman is a better thing
to iind than a five-pound note. He or she is a
radiating focus of goodwill; and their entrance
into a room is as though another can'dle had been
lighted. We need not care whether they could
prove the forty-seventh proposition; they do a bet-
ter thing than that—they practically demonstrate
the great theorem of the liveableness of life. Con-
sequently, if a person cannot be happy without
remaining idle, idle he should remain. It is a revo-
lutionary precept; but thanks to hunger and the
workhouse, one not easily to be abused; and with-
in practical limits, it is one of the most incontesta-
ble truths. . . . Look at one of your industrious
fellows for a moment, I beseech you. He sows
hunger and reaps indigestion; he puts a vast deal
of activity out to interest, and receives a large
measure of nervous derangement in return. Either
he absents himself entirely from all fellowship . . .

150

or he comes among people swiftly and bitterly, in
a contraction of his whole nervous system, to dis-
charge some temper before he returns to work. I
do not care how much or how well he works, this
fellow is an evil feature in other people’s lives.
They would be happier if he were dead. . . .

And what, in God’s name, is all this pother
about? For what cause do they embitter their own
and other people’s lives? That a man should pub-
lish three or thirty articles a year, that he should
finish or not finish his great allegorical picture, are
questions of little interest to the world. The ranks
of life are full; and although a thousand fall, there
are always some to go into the breach. When they
told Joan of Arc she should be at home minding
women’s work, she answered there were plenty to
spin and wash. And so, even with your own rare
gifts! When nature is “so careless of the single
life,” why should we coddle ourselves into the
fancy that our own is of exceptional importance?
Suppose Shakespeare had been knocked on the
head some dark night in Sir Thomas Lucy’s pre-
serves; the world would have wagged on better or
worse, the pitcher gone to the well, the scythe to
the corn, and the student to his book; and no one
been any the wiser of the loss. . . . This is a
sobering reflection for the proudest of our earthly
vanities. . . . Alas and alas! you may take it how
you will, but the services of no single individual
are indispensable. Atlas was just a gentleman with
a protracted nightmare! And yet you see mer-’
chants who go and labour themselves into a great
fortune and thence into the bankruptcy court;
scribblers who keep scribbling at little articles until
their temper is a cross to all who come about them.
. . . and fine young men who work themselves into
a decline, and are driven off in a hearse with white
plumes upon it. . . . The ends for which they give
away their priceless youth, for all they know may
be chimerical or hurtful; the glory and riches they
expect may never come, .or may find them indif-
ferent; and they and the world they inhabit are so
inconsiderable that the mind freezes at the thought.

THE EDUCATED PERSON

Exposes himself to many forms of leisure time
growth.

Has fun in living.

Finds satisfaction in beauty, music, drama, arts,
nature.

Has joy in comradeship.

Knows how to make and hold friends.

Is skillful in working and playing with others.

Recognizes service in the community as satisfying.

—Headings adapted from pamphlet'Education Through
Purposes, Board of Education, Denver Public Schools

RECREATION

You Can Keep

Your Garden '

w One-Day-a-Week Will Do It N

Kay Thorne

UR GARDEN WAS originally planned for a full-
0 time putterer, a hired man who came twice
a week, and an occasional third helper. It was
always in the pink of perfection. Then came the
dark days of the war, when the whole burden fell
on the one person left. What with necessary war-

time activities, the few hours of daylight which '

remained in the evenings for chores were com-
pletely swallowed up.

In the meantime the flower garden grew like
Topsy, who could not have looked worse. Holi-
days were used to do a little cleaning up; Decora—
tion Day, the Fourth of July and Labor Day——
what days they were—from eight o’clock in the
morning until dark!

But, finally, I launched a concentrated plan for
efficient running of the garden. A complete study
was made of what could and could not be done.

The first thing that had to be decided was just
how much time would be set aside for this pur-
pose. Saturdays were not free; so Sunday was
fixed as gardening day, and the schedule is still
being strictly followed. Nothing takes me away
from gardening on Sunday. The only thing that
is not done on that day is the cutting of the front
lawn. I still have that inhibition of not wanting
to be seen cutting the front lawn on Sunday. It is
usually done Saturday night between seven o’clock
and dark. If it rains Saturday night and the grass
is growing fast, then, and only then, is it cut on
Sunday or left for the next Saturday night.

The undertaking to revive active gardening in
the summer of 1944 was largely spent in clearing
out overgrown shrubs, weeds, old climbing rose
vines and so on. Each Sunday one particular
thing was chosen for concentration. It was a great
temptation to dilly dally but I closed my eyes to

lULY 1948

 

originally, we had a full-time put-
terer. Now one person works alone.

the other things and did that one job thoroughly.
And it looked pretty good, too, when I looked at
the heap of rubbish to be burned; but usually, by
that time, I had already started thinking about
the schedule for next Sunday, picking out the
most glaring needs.

A regular routine was followed carefully. If
there was time left over after the day’s project
was finished, one of the many other things was
undertaken, always keeping in mind that whatever
it was had to be carried all through the garden
and finished completely. Charts were drawn up
and divided into work periods, allowing an effi—
cient time limit for each task. If you have never
set such a schedule and followed it, you have
missed an enlightening experience. I found that
the pace set at first was too fast so I cut it down
to such speed as would at least leave me with a
little breath at the end of the day.

It takes that kind of planning to do a one-day-
a-week garden job single handed.

Needless to say that during the first summer
only the surface was scratched but one could see
that there was improvement. I must confess that,
in spite of the fact that there was a garden aplenty,
I succumbed to a few roses and perennials. What
real gardener would not? Inspired by the war, I
also attempted a vegetable garden. It was pathetic:
a few green beans, lettuce and carrots—but those
——delicious.

The summer of 1945 saw more hard work with
the schedule a little more vigorous than the pre-
ceding year. This was the year that I gave up
sprinkling and decided that since the farmer grew
his crops only with the help of the rain, and the
nurseries grew shrubs, evergreens and so forth
without watering, I could, too. There was a great

151

deal of fear and trepidation in the undertaking.
All garden advice said “Sprinkle, water, don’t let
things dry out.” But in the spring I started out
without it. The rain came and things grew; then
the rain stopped but, for a while, things still grew.
I almost felt as‘the farmer does about the rain,
and kept my fingers crossed. Then when I be—
gan to despair and almost was on the point of weak-
ening, the rain came. I began to notice the amount
of dew which fell at night and welcomed an over—
cast day. All these things helped. During a long
dry spell I did not cut the front lawn for three
weeks and I left the clippings on. I even got so
that I could appreciate the feelings of early man
who sacrificed to the god of rain during droughts.
It was quite an experience. But it worked. The
lawn came through—green—Land still a lawn; the
perennials and roses survived except in a few in-
stances. I knew for a certainty then that it would
work. That was the satisfaction; and with this
knowledge I had more time for the garden itself.
v I had some tomatoes which I picked in October
and at Christmas time. I had started them from
seed on the Fourth of July, kept them in the ice
room and, when I wanted any to eat, brought them
into the warm kitchen for a few days.-

I canned all the fruit in the yard—cherries,
apples and pears-wand had all I could eat. In fact,
I started having applesauce as soon as the apples,
about the size of golf balls, started to drop.

Last year I planned a little better. More farm—
ing methods were put in and I found that they
worked just as well, if not a little better, than some
of our old methods of gardening. It is quite diffi-
cult to swing over to farming methods after years
of working the other way. The whole approach is
different and things are done at specific times or
not at all. I found that the farming method gave
a much healthier and more satisfactory result, that
the continual fertilizing of plants had tended to
weaken rather than strengthen them; so, like the
farmer, I did the fertilizing when the seeds were
planted and that was the end. I found that earlier
and less frequent spraying made the plants more
resistant. This was all experimental on my part
and I watched the results with fear and trembling;
but, on the whole, it was very satisfactory. I found
that nature will do most of the work if left alone.

'3y 1946 I really was operating on an almost
complete farm basis. I adopted an attitude toward
annuals and the vegetables of “sink or swim, I
have planted you.” I had swiss chard—really
enough to crow about. I pulled the carrots after
the first frost and while they were tiny, they were
delicious. I had more green beans, and the usual

152

fruit. Everything was cleaned up spick and span
in the fall; in fact, the garden, for the first time,
looked as though it had been scrubbed.

I decided to use no more commercial fertilizer
but to depend 'on humus from rotted leaves, weeds
and grass trimmings, cow manure or sheep manure
and cover crops turned under. So to start out
right I dug to the depth of the spading fork and
put lime in the vegetable garden, dug under sod
in other parts of the garden and decided to put
in a complete farming procedure for this year.

After three years of hard work I have brought
the garden back to its old beauty. It looks like a
new place with the old shrubs either cut out en-
tirely or cut back so that they do not overshadow
everything else.

Incidentally, I am turning to berry bushes in-
stead of fruit trees since berries can be canned
and jellied just as well as tree fruit and there is
just as much variety as in the larger fruit. Bushes
take up much less room also.

I can hear somebody saying: “\Nell, what do
you do with holidays?” On holidays I loaf; I
never do on a holiday anything I have mapped
out for the Sunday following. There are not too
many holidays during the summer anyway, and I
enjoy those to the full.

All of which adds up to this: you can have a
garden, and a big one at that, with just one day’s
work but you have got to want to have tit." It is
hard work but lots of fun ; it is healthy; it is a real
accomplishment and well worthwhile.

“Writing Is Fun"

HE CHICAGO COMMITTEE for the Hospitalized
Veterans Writing Project is offering special
prizes for hospitalized veterans to introduce a
hobby that can occupy minds as well as hands and
win funds as well as*fun. This second annual
national contest, sponsored by free lancers and
editors, has the cooperation of the Chief of Recre—
ation, Special Services, Veterans Administration,
H. H. Holman, who is mailing the news to 150
hospitals, branch and regional offices. Veterans in
other hospitals, librarians or Red Cross workers
may receive complete .rules by sending stamped,
self-addressed envelopes to the above at 919 North
Michigan Avenue, Chicago. Contests are open now.
In the hope of continued interest in writing as

a hobby, each contestant will receive personal criti-
cism, while those with special talent will be re—
ferred to market sources for free lance connections.
\Vriters’ group's near Veterans Administration
HoSpitals are urged to carry on similar programs.

RECREATION

Golf Clubs

Ben Hogan

LL GOLFERS ARE alike in one respect. They are
A always on the lookout for new clubs. That is
why the average golfer never goes into a golf shop
without feeling and testing almost every club he
can put his hands on, even if he has no fault to
find with the clubs he is using.

He just wants to be prepared for the day when
his favorite clubs wear out or break. He won’t
feel so bad when that happens if he has the replace-
ments in his locker.

In selecting clubs I always look for those which
suit my swing. I’ve spent too long developing that
swing to make any radical changes in it merely to
fit a new club.

Maybe you’ll get the idea of how important it
is to get clubs which “feel” right if I recite a few
of my own experiences looking for replacements.
While playing in the Pro-Amateur Tournament,
which preceded the 1947 Phoenix, Arizona, Open,
I broke my favorite driver. I had used it con—
stantly since 1937 and, during that time, I won
more than my share of prize money with it. Al-
though I am now using another driver I wouldn’t
say that as yet I have found a club which has
replaced the old one in my affections.

The only comparison I can make of the differ-
ence between golf clubs is to say that playing with
a new club is something like breaking in a new
pair of shoes. However, I have found it a lot
easier to find a new pair of shoes that I like than
I have to find a new driver.

Long before I broke that driver I was looking
for one that felt as good to me. I knew that it
wasn’t going to last forever because of the hard
and constant use I give my clubs; but I wasn’t
lucky enough to find a replacement.

Any time I discuss clubs I am always asked,
“How much does your driver weigh?” and “How
long is it ?” That is because most golfing fans are
interested in learning how to drive for distance.

 

*Reprinted from Power Golf, by Ben Hogan. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. Copyright 1948.

IULY 1948

Their Selection and Use*

And, for some reason, they think that the secret of
how tournament golfers get such tremendous dis-
tances off the 'tée"must be wrapped up in their
drivers.

Making any set rule on the length or weight of
the driver for you to use, without fitting it to your
individual needs, would be an error. The old golf
instructional theory used to be that a short man
should use a short club and a tall man should use
a long club, but students of the game have come
to realize that the reverse is nearer to the correct
theory. For instance,- Bobby Cruickshank, who is
only slightly more than five feet in height and is
always referred to as “The Wee Scot,” used a
driver with a 44-inch shaft. -.

Manufacturers, however, have standardized the
length and weight of clubs. The standard length

A golfer of consistent ability shares his secrets.

-- ‘-.-'.'-.<:-:«' ' '

$1- I

 

153

of the driver is 43 inches. The weight of my wood
clubs is I4 ounces, but 13%; to 13% ounces seem
to be a good weight for the average player.

In selecting your driver it would be foolish for
you to pick a club with a lot of whip if you have
a short fast backswing because you would" have
trouble controlling it. If you are older, and have
a full slow swing, use a club with enough flex in
the shaft so that you can feel the clubhead.

The weight of the clubhead should also be in
relation to the flex of the shaft. If you have a stiff,
heavy shaft your club has to have more weight in
the clubhead in order for you to get the “feel” of
the clubhead during the swing. The lighter “and
more flexible the shaft, the less weight needed in
the clubhead.

In selecting and using your wood clubs it would
be well to remember that sometimes a player can
change clubheads without getting into difficulty
but, generally speaking, he is asking for trouble
when he changes the shafts. The reason is that the

flex and the weight of all shafts are different and
I they have a direct effect on the swing.

In regard to the clubhead and its function, most
golf fans don’t realize that during the course of
the ideal golf swing the clubhead is ahead of the
shaft as you approach the ball. Until moving pic-
tures showed exactly what was taking place, most
people imagined that the clubhead was behind the
shaft.

If there is any difference in the flex of the shaft
from what you are accustomed to, no matter how
slight, it can. throw off your swing. Most hitters
prefer stiff shafts to whippy ones. The fast swing-
ers are not always the long hitters. Give a lot of
consideration to the relationship of the flex of the
shaft to your swing before you select wood clubs.

While iron clubs are turned out on precision
machinery it is not always easy to find an iron
that “feels” right. During the 1946 National Open
Championship at the Canterbury Country Club in
Cleveland, Ohio, for instance, my nine iron was
lost. I’ve never been able to find a nine iron since
which “feels” as good to me as my old one.

Putting is probably the least standardized phase
of the game of golf and golfers are just as individ-
ual in the selection of their putters as they are in
their styles of putting. More weird looking putters
are sold at the average golf shop than any other
type of club. Since putting is such an individual
art, nobody has been able to prove that you can
improve your efficiency by standardizing the in-
strument used.

As for my own preference in putters, I am al-
ways on the lookout for one that sets straight

154

away. They’re not as easy to find as you might
imagine. In fact, I haven’t seen more than five
putters in my life that, when examined closely,
weren’t hooked.

Lest you begin to suspect that I am a bit 'of an
old woman about my clubs let me say that club
“feel” was even important to Bobby Jones. Upon
his retirement the clubs that Jones had used in
winning his many championships were tested sci-
entifically for center of gravity, moments of inertia,
and the like. Bobby’s clubs, which were hickory
shafted and which he laboriously acquired one by
one over the years, were actually a perfect match
with the exception of his mashie niblick, which
would be known as the eight iron today.

“I always had trouble with that club,” was
Jones’ comment when informed of the result of the
laboratory tests.

Now that you have some idea of what to look
for in selecting your clubs, let’s give some consid-
eration to what club to use when faced with a
shot. Naturally, this is governed to some extent
by individual ability, but there are certain things
which I can tell you here which will be of help.

Your club selection for a shot should be gov—
erned by the amount of loft required in the flight
of the ball and the distance it is to travel. The
more loft to the clubface the easier it is to hit a
straight ball.

The amount of confidence you have in your
ability to play a particular club should be given
some consideration when you are selecting a club
to make a shot which appears to be difficult. You
can substitute a club you favor for the correct club
to be used on a particular shot only if your favorite
is quite similar to the correct club in the loft of
its clubface.

\Vhen addressing the ball make sure that the
clubhead is resting with its entire bottom surface
on the ground. Also check to make sure that the
bottom edge of the clubface is at right angles to
the intended line of flight. In order to play any
shot correctly, the lie of the clubhead must be en-
tirely on the ground and yet permit you to take up
a comfortable position as you stand up to the ball.
If it doesn’t, your whole swing will be off or the
clubface may be twisted out of its proper striking
position at the moment of contact.

In selecting any club to make a shot it is well
to have an idea of its relation to the distance con-
fronting you. Of course, no matter whether you
are using woods or irons, no two players will nec-
essarily use precisely the same club for precisely
the same distance.

That’s because there is a matter of personal ad-

RECREATION

justment which comes into play. The particular
range of any club should be adapted to suit the
strength of the player. Then, again, some players
have a tendency to loft the ball more easily than
others. In which case they will use a longer iron
to get the same distance as the player who doesn’t!

get as much loft.

From: Regular Maximmn M inimum
Driver . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 265 _ 300 235

Brassie . . . . . . . .  . . . . 250 270 220

Three Wood . . . . . . . .. 235 250 210

Four Wood . . . . . . . . .. 220 230 200

One Iron . . . . . . . . . . .. 195 220 185

Two Iron . . . . . . . . . . .. 185 210 175

Three Iron . . . . . . . . . .. 175 200 165

Four Iron . . . . . . . . . .. 165 190 155

Five Iron . . . . . . . . . . .. 155 180 145

Six Iron . . . . . . .  . .. 145 170 135

Seven Iron . . . . . . . . . .. 135 160 125

Eight Iron .‘.. . . . . . . .. 125 150 115

Nine Iron . . . . . . . . . . .. 115 140 105

Wedge Pitch . . . . . . . . . 50 in 105 in to green

Wedge Sand . . . . . . . .. 25 40 in to green

The preceding table is my graded list of dis-
tances for the various clubs. You will have to find
your own distances, of course, but I have graded
my clubs according to regular, maximum, and
minimum distances to give you some idea of the
ratio between clubs. .

Naturally, weather conditions will alter all max-
imums and minimums. These gradings are based
on ideal weather conditions, but heavier air will
make it more difficult for you to get distance. On
a heavy day subtract approximately ten yards from
each club. '

Another factor to be considered is the condition
of the fairways. Hard fairways will give the ball
more roll. Soft fairways will stop it from rolling.

If there is one club in the bag neglected by
novices and duffers, it is the sand wedge. In fact,
most novices don’t carry a sand wedge at all.

That ignorance of the value of a sand wedge
probably isn’t as strange as it seems to be. Dai
Rees and Charley Ward, the two English pro-
fessionals who played in our tournaments during
the winter of 1946—1947, marveled at the way
American professionals have mastered the use of
the sand wedge. They said that if they hadn’t
learned anything else during their tour, the trip
was worthwhile just because of what they learned
about using this club.

“Most English players don’t even use the sand
wedge,” said Rees when I talked about it with
him. “They don’t know its value.”

Too bad they don’t, however, because a sand
wedge, if one will take the trouble to learn how
to use it, can be the most useful club in the kit.

JULY 1948

q
59

x
A
t
x
xx
.
.,
A t
a.
.l'f
5.5 2.
:t
.ZI '
tux. 9
'. W
:_.,:- s. . ‘
 "-'~5
5' am. u,
M: t .'
g  - .3! ~'__
, .
9- '~‘ -. ..
n. t . .
it ~ ‘
e! -'-.
. xv.- A 'U
a: r...
~_.'--.
' . o ’.-'
0 .5,
x w.
\\‘<.- a. x

 

In power golf, the speed and momentum
of the club carry player to a full finish.

Even when a duffer does buy a sand wedge he
usually buys the wrong kind. He should select a
sand wedge with a wide fiange on the sole of the
club. This flange on the underside of the clubhead
prevents the blade from digging‘into the ground
too deeply.

When you set the club down on a flat surface
the flange should’be at an angle so that the back
of the flange will hold the leading edge of the face
of the club up off the surface approximately one
quarter of an inch.

Most golfers don’t realize that use of the sand
wedge is not restricted to sand traps or bunkers.
It is ideal, for instance, to use on pitch shots.

In using the sand wedge to make a pitch shot all
you have to do is to hit a little back of the ball.
This club is fine for pitch shots because the blade
has plenty of loft and the fiange prevents the club
blade from digging into the ground. When this
shot is gauged correctly and hit properly, the ball
should Hy right up and give you the correct loft for
a pitch shot to the green.

Experiment with this club a little to find what
your maximum distance with it is. After you have
determined your maximum you can go ahead and
start using it for all pitch shots from your maxi-
mum distance right on in to the green.

Furthermore, it is an ideal club to use when
you want the ball to stop suddenly after it lands.
In order to get the most efficient use out of this
club, however, you must spend a little time prac-

155

ticing with it. But it’s worth it as proficiency with
the sand wedge will pay dividends.

\Vhile the United States Golf Association re-
stricts the number of clubs to fourteen, 'most pro-
fessionals use sixteen in all tournaments except
USGA sponsored events and the Masters’ Tour-
nament, which is also a fourteen club affair. When
I compete in a tournament in which the number
of clubs is restricted, I make my selection on the
basis of the clubs which will be the most useful to
me during that particular tournament.

For instance, during the 1947 JMasters’ Tourna-

ment at Augusta, Georgia, I left my double duty
niblick in my locker. But before the tournament
I spent a good deal of time practicing chipping
with my sand wedge in order to make up for the
absence of that particular club from my bag.

In conclusion, let me say that you’ll strengthen
your game considerably if you become more fa-
miliar with all of the clubs in your bag. No
matter what situation confronts you during the
course of a round you will at least know what
club to use, if you know what each club is for, and
how it should be played.

. Service in Tennis”

It is demoralizing to the
opponent to know that
he is facing a regularly
powerful service . . .

ECAUSE THE SERVICE is your means of putting
B the ball in play; because by its strength or
its weakness you either begin a point with the
upper hand or on the defensive, it is one of the
most important strokes in the game. You want to
develop a service that gives you the most power
with the least effort. The best service is that
which you can make with consistent moderate
speed and pace throughout a match, yet one which
can pound out an ace occasionally, or at least make
considerable trouble for the receiver. I remember
a match I played against Mrs. Holcroft Watson,
the English W ightman Cup player, in 1928. She
was a steady, hard—hitter off the ground and I was
getting very tired from my long backcourt ex-
changes with her. Finally it came to my serve and
5-4 in the final set. I felt that I couldn’t survive
another long rallying game with her so I decided
to put everything I had into my serve. I served
three aces for forty-love and had saved myself
enough energy by then to win the following point
after a long exchange. Had I tried to serve this
fast throughout the match, in all probability I
should not have been able to summon the strength
at the end to serve those aces.

It is demoralizing to the opponent to know that

156

HELEN HULL JACOBS

he is facing a regularly powerful service. Realiz—
ing how difficult it is to break that service, he will
expend any amount of energy to hold his own.
There is the additional Worry for him that the
server will go to the net, when he chooses, behind
a fast delivery, forcing him to make a passing shot
or an effective lob, and this, alone, puts him under
a strain. But if you always hit your service as hard
as possible, you not only take an unnecessary risk
and expend too much energy; you permit your
opponent the opportunity to get.used to it. The
value of Tilden’s “cannonball” service was that it
generally followed a series of moderately paced
serves. Or, sometimes, he would hit a high-bounc—
ing service and follow it by a “cannonball.” If
you watched Donald Budge serve throughout a
match, you would be surprised to realize how sel-
dom he hits for an ace. When he badly needs a
point, yes, or when his opponent is moving up on
his service. You would realize the same thing in
watching Alice Marble serve. She is far more
effective when she serves her moderately paced
service than when she tries for an ace, for the per-
centage of ins on her hard first service is small,

 

*Reprintcd from Tennis, b Helen Hull Jacobs. Copyright,
1941, by‘A. S. Barnes and ompany, Incorporated, New York.

RECREATION

,and during a long match her flat serve seems to
take a good deal of energy. She can be devastating
when she chooses the psychological moment for
her “cannonball.”

Let us study the mechanics of the service. For
this stroke, I use the Continental grip which gives
greater flexibility to the wrist; and it is the action
of the wrist, as well as the arm, that detern-zines
whether the serve will be hit flat, or with over-
spin, or with side-spin. I take up a position on the
baseline with my left foot two or three inches be—
hind the line and at approximately a forty-five
degree angle to the net. I place my right foot
about a pace behind the left with my heels on a
line. My right foot is almost parallel to-the net,
perhaps turned in just a trifle. I am standing with
my body sideways to the net and my shoulders
turned in the direction I am going to serve. As I
prepare to serve, I hold the balls and the racket
just in front of my waist on the left side. Now, the
important thing is to throw the ball up to such
a height that I will be able to hit' it with a fully
extended left arm and in such a position, slightly
in front of my left foot, that I can throw my weight
into the stroke. It is absolutely essential to master
the art of throwing the ball up straight. For a long
time I thought I threw the ball up straight until
it was pointed out to me that I threw it well behind
my left shoulder. Obviously, from this point, I
could not get my body into the serve and my
stroke lost power accordingly.

As you throw the ball up, you do two things:
one, your right arm dr0ps in the beginning of the
swing until it is fully extended behind your right
leg; two, your body-weight shifts back to the right
foot, your left knee bending to accommodate this
shift. The racket does not pause in this downward
movement, but continues from there in a semi—
circular motion to a position behind the head. At
this point the body has turned well sideways as

well as bent backwards to accommodate the motion'

_ of the arm. The forearm is horizontal with the

ground. Again, without a break in the rhythm, the
forward motion commences and your body begins
its turn back toward the left. You raise yourself
on your left toe to reach the maximum height at
the moment of impact, for what you actually want
to do is to hit down on theiball, rather than to hit
out at it. Just as you hit the ball, the racket head
inclines forward, your body—weight bends forward,
and your right foot, having been raised from the
ground by the forward and sideward bending of
your body, swings forward to a position almost
opposite your left foot. After impact, the follow-
through begins, bringing the arm and racket down

lULY 1948

across the body. Your weight then falls upon the
right foot which has come to rest slightly in front
of your left foot.

Now let us go back over the various stages of
this stroke. You want to gather as much momen-
tum as possible for the moment of impact between
ball and racket, which is the reason for dropping
the arm to the fully extended position before begin—
ning the upward swing. The principle involved in
the transfer of weight from the left to the right
foot as the stroke is begun is exactly the same as
in the forehand and backhand drives. Y on cannot
throw your weight into a shot unless it is previ-
ously resting on the back foot. In addition to this,
the playing arm naturally draws the body around
with it, and as the arm swings back of the head, it
would be awkward indeed not to bend backwards
to relieve the strain of the position. At the mo-
ment when the arm begins to swing the racket
forward, the body, again naturally, must move
forward with it, but it moves forward almost solely
from the hips up, the position of the .trunk being
approximately at' a sixty degree angle to the
ground as regards its sideward inclination.

The forward inclination of the racket head
brings the ball into court, and can be regulated'
according to whether your serves are going in or
out. If they are going out, you probably need to
incline the racket °head more; if they are going
into the net, you probably ought to incline it
forward less. But there is another factor that
affects the accuracy of the service and this is the
toss of the ball. If you throw it too high, you
are going to hit it either at the very top of the

Bobby Riggs turns his body sideways as well as back-
wards; shifts weight to right foot, bending left knee.

 

157

strings or on the wood. In any case, it is not going
to be affected by the inclination of the head and
will probably go out. If you throw it too low, you
will probably hit too much on t0p of the ball and
it will go into the net. Practice the throw until
you can toss the ball to a point where your fully
extended arm enables you to meet the ball in the
center of the racket face as the trunk is inclining
forward. This applies to the flat service which has
the greatest possible speed and pace.

There are, as well, the tOp-Spin or American
twist, and the sliced services. The same footwork,
body-balance and shifting of the weight which
apply to the flat service apply to the other two
services. The only difference is that the racket face
meets the ball at a different angle, and, to facilitate
this change of angle, the ball is thrown up to a
different position.

I. The top—spin service is made by throwing the
ball up to the same height as for the flat service,
but more to the left, approximately above the left
shoulder. As the racket swings up to meet the ball,
the upper edge of the frame is tilted slightly for-
ward. The strings strike the ball just below its
center and move sharply across and up the back
surface. This action of theracket causes the ball
to spin rapidly forward on an imaginary diagonal
axis, the result being that when the ball hits the
court it takes a high hop to the receiver’s left. It
is chiefly the wrist which whips the racket face up
and across the ball in this way, although the arm,
too, plays its part. The follow-through ends with
the racket face well above and to the right of the
point of contact. This service is particularly useful
in forcing the receiver back on the baseline, and in
obliging him to make a defensive return. Even if
the receiver moves in to take the high—bouncing
service on the rise, he cannot make a very aggres—
sive return because of the exaggerated overspin
affecting the ball’s bounce. This serve, placed to
the receiver’s backhand, is a good shot behind
which to come to the net, for, even taken on the
rise, it forces the player out of court,when served
into the left court, and into an extremely awkward
position in mid—court when served into the right
court. It is a very effective and reliable second
service to deve10p, offering a striking and discon—
certing change from the first flat service.

2. The'sliced service is made by throwing the
ball slightly lower than for the flat serve and more
to the right so that the racket face can move down
and across the outside surface of the ball. This
service, after striking the ground, bounds low and
sharply out to the receiver’s right, and the ten-
dency of the ball is to slide off the receiver’s racket

158

unless he is patient enough to wait before hitting
until the spin of the ball is less pronounced. A
slice, for this reason, is one shot that cannot be
hit on the rise, being consequently a useful shot
behind which to approach the net. It is a shot that
involves so much risk if the receiver attempts a
return down the line, that the crosscourt return
can be safely anticipated. It is more valuable when
served into the right than the left court. From
the left court, the receiver, drawn by the bounce
of the ball to mid-court can more easily return the
ball to either side. The sliced service is an advis—
able variation of the deliveries to learn. Any
change of pace and depth and spin which will
enable you to keep your opponent guessing will
help you to start Your service games with the
upper hand.

Remember that it is just as important to watch
the ball on the service as on the groundstrokes,
and that rhythm plays just as great a part iii suc—
cessful serving as in driving. Bear two things con-
stantly in mind when practicing the serve: do
not break the motion of arm and racket by poms—
ing at either downswing or bachswing; and throw
ball up high enough so that when you hit it at the
top of its bounce (not when it is going up or com-
ing down!) your arm. is fully extended. By con-
centrating on these two things you will avoid a
cramped serving action and you will hit the ball
where you can put most power into it.

 

Report From Jackson's Mill

DURING THE National Conference of Under-
graduate Professional Preparation for Health
Education, Physical Education and Recreation,
held at Jackson’s Mill, West Virginia, May 16:28,
attention was focused on the two major purposes
of the conference. These were: I) to develop
recommended programs of professional prepara-
tion for teachers and leaders in health education,
physical education and recreation; 2) to develop
suggested standards to serve as guides for institu-
tions engaged in the professional preparation of
personnel in the three fields, relating to staff, cur-
ricula, facilities, resource materials, selection of
students, introduction of students into professional
responsibilities and placement.

The conference was sponsored by a number of
professional organizations and agencies, including
the National Recreation Association, and financed
by the Athletic Institute. Plans were under super-
vision of a Steering Committee of representatives
from the various interested organizations.

RECREATION

99

“To forget would be to lose . . .

 

OSEPH' LEE’s CONTRIBUTION to our age has" been dis—
J. cussed often and is familiar to everyone. However, Joseph Lee Day—July 30, 1943
as the years go by, it also will be well to hold to the mem-
ory of his warm, play-loving personality; for to forget it would be to lose the rare, personal part of that
contribution which sets a salutary example for us all. ,Much of Joseph Lee’s service to his fellows consisted
of sharing with them his own abundant zest for living.

A cousin, Mary Lee, Wrote of him: “Those of us who knew him as an older relative, or as the father
of our friends, had a very special feeling about Joseph Lee. we knew he was a distinguished citizen—the
aura of greatness always hung about him—but to us his public achievement did not matter. What matte‘red
was that here was a Grown-Up who nevertheless loved to come out with us and do things, and who did
things with a vim and an enthusiasm that carried us all along. To us he was an Opener of Gates.

“I can see him in a small clearing in the Adirondack forest—-~a smooth, green place—surrounded by
a group of children, his own and others, dancing The Farmer in the Dell or Roman Soldiers, coats off and
pigtails flying. When others would have tired, it was his enthusiasm that kept on thinking of one tune
after another, till the feet of even the shy ones were happily thumping the soft, cow-munched turf . . ._

“Or I see him, in the early winter, skating joyously on the first black ice on Hammond’s Pond, and
later in the winter on the river. Some bright, clear February morning one would be called up by one
of his children, told that ‘Pa’ had decided to go river-skating, and would you c0me, and if you had
something to do, would you please give it up and come anyway, because river-skating was important and
you couldn’t do it every day in the year—and you gave it up and you came . . .

“I see him arrive at a winter house-party in New Hampshire, and right after supper disappear out
the door into the darkness, to be discovered an hour later by his lazy youngers ardently coasting, all by
himself in the dim moonlight, steering his sled after the manner of his boyhood by jerking the runners and
plowing the toes of his best Boston boots into the icy roadway. I can hear him telling, with the enthusiasm
of a boy ten—he was then over sixty—how he had missed the water-box at the corner by just one inch
the last time . . . '

“He was an artist of great enthusiasm and no little skill. He could paint pictures in words, and he
was always trying to paint pictures with real paints . . . I can hear him asking that lunch be put off for
an hour because he was just going out sketching and he was sure he could not get the color of that grey
stump in just one hour, and yet he could not bear to miss lunching with the crowd.”T

Joseph Lee always thought of conversation as a very important form of recreation. It was so easy
for him to talk about Alice in Wonderland, about Jane Austen and about all of the books that were dear

to him . . . So much of his power in conversation came from his reading, which he had so thoroughly
digested that it had become a part of himself and was almost forgotten . . .

Reading aloud had a very important place in the Lee household . . . There were dramatizations in
the parlor in the Boston home and out-of-doors at Cohasset in summer . . . One could not help feeling

the richness of play life which Joseph Lee and Mrs. Lee opened up to their children . . .

*Based on material in the December 1937 issue of RECREATION. 'l'From a letter originally published in the Boston Evening Transcript.

JULY 1948 . 159

The intelligent planning of this large junior high
school playground facilitates diversified multiple use.

Expensive, badly placed apparatus limits the useful-
ness of this inadequately planned school playground.

 

 

[1E IMPORTANCE OF acquiring and developing
Tproperly located areas Of suitable size to serve
certain recreation functions was pointed out early
in the twentieth century by a few leaders in city
planning. The growth of cities and of public inter-

est in recreation created a need for additional

properties. As municipal recreation programs ex-
panded in number and diversity, there arose a
demand for several types of areas, each designed
to serve one or more specific uses. Standards for
these recreation areas were proposed from time to
time by park, school, recreation and city planning
authorities. Many such standards, though satisfac—
tory at the time they were developed, have long
since been discarded as inadequate to meet expand-
ing needs.

Varying local conditions—topography, climate,
population density, wealth and other factors-min-
Huence the amount and types of recreation space
that are required or that are possible of attainment
in a particular city or neighborhood. Nevertheless,
the basic recreation needs of people in most com-
munities are similar. Consequently, standards for
recreation areas and facilities designed ta meet

lRecreation Areas

George D. Butler

these needs are generally applicable, except in
resort cities and other localities where abnormal
conditions are present.

The statement which follows summarizes stand-
ards for municipal recreation areas proposed by
national agencies, local planning and recreation
authorities and professional planners. Most of
these standards have been proposed during the
past decade and they fairly represent current opin—
ions as to desirable municipal recreation space.
A brief bibliography -of the sources mentioned
appears at the end Of this article.

Some of the differences in Opinion noted here
occur because of the fact that whereas most of the
standards represent estimates of the space required
to meet the basic recreation needs of people in a
city or neighborhood, others are primarily an esti—
mate of the space that can reasonably be provided
by a city in view of the limitations often imposed
by existing urban conditions. A few of the pro-
posals are recommendations which were made
several years ago by recognized authorities, and

lULY 1948

have subsequently been revised after having
proved inadequate.

The standards proposed by the National Recrea-
tion Association have been widely quoted and
adopted. They have been used by many planning
agencies and professional planners; they were in-
corporated practically without change in the publi-
cations issued by the Recreation Division of the
Federal Security Agency, and, according to the
Twentieth Century Fund’s report America’s Needs
and Resources, “are generally accepted.” These
standards have been revised or modified from time
to time in the light of'changing conditions and
eXperience in their use. Unfortunately, some of
the Association’s earlier standards, which are no
longer considered adequate, continue to be quoted
and used as though they were still in effect.

Standards, it should be kept in mind, can never
be applied completely or without modification, be-
cause a typical or ideal situation is never found in

a city. They need to be adjusted in the light of
the conditions, needs, and resources of each indi-
vidual locality. Standards are designed to indicate
a norm or a point of departure ; as such they afford
a basis for“ the intelligent deveIOpment of local
plans. Standards also need to be reviewed and ap-
praised from time to time and to be modified when-t
ever changing conditions make revisions necessary.

Total Recreation Space

The basic standard relates to the total amount
of Open space that should be provided in a city.
The proposal that at least one acre of recreation
Space should be set aside for every 100 of the pres-
ent and estimated future pOpulation has been more
widely accepted than any other standard. It is
generally defined as applying only to recreation
areas located within or immediately adjacent to
the city, and not to outlying parks. This basic
standard has been proposed by such agencies as
the National Resources Board, the National Rec-
reation Association, the National Park Service and
the Federal Security Agency. A Committee on
City Planning of the American Institute of Park

‘Executives, in a questionnaire inquiry in 1942,

found that all the authorities whose Opinion was
sought on the question agreed that ten acres of
park land should be provided for each 1,000 of the
population.

This standard has long been used as a basis for
overall city plans. The Chicago Regional Planning
Association, the New Jersey State Planning
Board, the Regional Planning Association of the
Philadelphia Tri-State District, the Detroit City
Plan Commission, the Milwaukee County Regional

161

Planning Department and the Rhode Island State
Planning Board—to name only a few—have rec-
ommended its use. Almost without exception, city
planners have accepted it as a criterion for munici—
pal park and recreation plans. /

The desirability of providing even more than an
acre for 100 of the population has been pointed out
on many occasions. The late Charles H. Cheney;
consultant in city planning, recommended to the
first International Recreation Congress in 1932
that there should be at least one acre of recreation
area in each city or region for each fifty of the esti—
mated population. The National Park Service has
stated that more than one acre per 100 is needed in
towns and small cities. In its report, “Recreational
Use of Land in the United States,” issued by the
National Resources Board in 1938, the Service
recommended the following provision for park
acreage in communities under 8,000:

_ Poliulation Park Acreage

5,000 to 8,000 One acre to every 75 inhabitants
2 500 to 5,000 One acre to every 60 inhabitants
1,000 to 2,500 One acre to every 50 inhabitants
Under 1,000 One acre to every 40 inhabitants

In commenting on the suggested standard of
one acre of recreation area for every 100 inhabi—
tants in cities above 8,000, the report stated: “This
ratio should be higher for all or part of the group
comprising cities from 10,000 to 25,000 if those
cities are to provide for themselves the different
desirable types of recreation areas.” It further
stated: “The preservation of natural t0pographic
features—water fronts, rugged terrain and stream
valleys—should be done on a generous scale, even
though the result may be that the total gross area
of recreation Space within the city may become as
high as one acre to every fifty of its inhabitants.”

A large number of cities already have more rec—
reation space than is called for in the standard,
and some of these are planning to acquire addi-
tional acreage. For example, in a report entitled
“Tacoma—The City We Build,” it is pointed out
that the recommendations for park areas are “in
line with the present (1944) Tacoma p0pulation
ratio of 1.5 acres per 100.”

Only in the case of large, densely built up cities
has any modification of this general standard been
suggested, and such modification has been pro-
posed not because of desirability, but of necessity.
In its preliminary report, a Committee on Park
and Recreation Standards of the American Soci—
ety of Planning Officials referred to the standard
of one acre per 100 as being most commonly ac-
cepted, but expressed the Opinion that it was
not practical of attainment in the larger or more

162

densely populated cities. The Committee sug—
gested that possibly one acre to 200 people was
reasonable in cities above 500,000, and one acre
to 300 or more in cities above 1,000,000. Develop-
ment of large outlying properties, it was pointed
out, would help meet the recognized deficiency in
the larger cities. This variation from the general
standard has been adopted in Cleveland, for exam-
ple, where the City Planning Commission recog—
nizes a standard of one acre per 200 population.

The Area Percentage Standard

Percentage of a city’s total area has also been
suggested as a basis for 'a recreation space stand-
ard. The proposal has frequently been made that
ten per cent of the city’s area be set aside for
recreation. This standard, used alone, is unsatis—
factory, however, because it is unrelated to the
density or total number of the local population.
Space requirements estimated on the percentage
standard closely appropriate those based on popu-
lation only in a city where the average density of
population is about ten per gross acre; in the large
number of cities where the population is much
greater, the application of this pr0posed standard
fails to meet basic recreation needs. The percen-
tage standard may serve as a supplementary check
on the population standard but, as pointed out by
the Committee of the American Society of Plan—
ning Officials, mentioned above, the one based on
population is likely to be more applicable. The-
Committee indicated, however, that the standard
of ten per cent of the area, applying to parks
within, or adjacent to, the built-up area was satis—
factory for the average city up to about 500,000-
with a population of about ten per acre.

In several cities, proposals relating to popula—
tion have indicated that at least ten per cent of'
the gross area of the city or neighborhood be used.
for recreation. In others, this ratio has been ex-
ceeded. A report, entitled “Urban Planning and
Land Policies,” issued by the National Resources
Committee, includes an analysis of the open Spaces.
provided in twenty—nine planned communities. It
discloses that those communities allot. within
themselves, approximately one sixth of the planned.
area for some form of recreation and open Space,.
or far in excess of the ten per cent standard.

Composition of the Total Acreage

Total acreage alone does not indicate the ade--
quacy of a city’s recreation areas, because the-
recreation needs of the pe0ple can be met only as
pr0perties of proper size, location and development
are available. Several types of areas have been

RECREATION?

developed to meet these various needs, and their
characteristics are described later in this statement.
Some of them, such as the neighborhood play-
ground, playfield, portions of the large recreation
park and several special-use areas, serve primarily
for active or organized recreation use. Others,
such as the neighborhood park and reservation,
are designed for informal use and are often left
largely in their natural state.

A number of suggestions have. been made as to
the general distribution of the city’s total Open
space between areas designed to serve major func-
tions. The National Resources Planning Board,
for example, stated that play areas of various types
would comprise thirty to fifty per cent of the city’s
total recreation acreage. The National Park Serv-
ice has indicated that a similar percentage “for
active recreation use” is desirable. The Chicago
Regional Planning Association suggests that ap-
proximately thirty per cent be devoted to “play—
ground purposes.” The Cleveland City Planning
Commission (with its modihed total space stand-
ard) suggests that forty to lifty per cent of the
recreation area within, or closely adjoining, the
city limits be devoted to active use. It also sug—
gests that three-and-one-half acres in playgrounds,
playhelds, and neighborhood parks be provided for
each 1,000 people. About twenty to thirty per cent
of the city’s total park area should be in play—
grounds and playhelds, according to the Commit-
tee of the American Society of Planning Officials;
twenty-live per cent, according to the National
Recreation Association. The Cincinnati City Plan
Commission recommends that three acres in these
three types of properties be provided for each
1,000 persons.

 

Neighborhood Areas

Total space standards applied only to residential
neighborhoods have also been suggested. The
Committee on the Hygiene of Housing of the
American Public Health Association in its report,
“Planning the Neighborhood,” recommends that
neighborhood playgrounds ’and parks totaling be-

IULY 1948

tween 2.40 and 4.75 acres should be provided for
each 1,000 of the population. This amount would
represent approximately from one-fourth to one-
half the city’s total recreation Space. Similarly,
the Cleveland Regional Planning Association, re—
ferring to neighborhood recreation areas, recom-
mends passive and active recreation space for all
ages of one acre for every 200 persons, with a
minimum provision of one acre per 400 or at least
ten per cent of the neighborhood area.

These suggestions for residential neighborhoods
imply that the balance of the city’s open space
would be in pr0perties that serve larger geographi-
cal districts or the entire city.

Additional Regional Properties

Areas within the city cannot furnish all the
forms of recreation that are desirable for city
dwellers. Since some activities require larger areas
than are available within the city, supplementary
areas are needed in the surrounding region. The
most frequent proposal for such areas is that one
acre be set aside for each 100 of the population of
the city and surrounding region. The Philadelphia
Tri-State planning group recommends one acre
per 100 in outlying regional pr0perties in addition
to one acre per 100 in municipal parks; a similar
standard is indicated by the Rhode Island State
Planning Board. The City Planning Commission
of Cleveland recommends that, in addition to the
properties within the city, there should be one acre
per 100 population of outlying parkways, reserva-
tions. and other pr0perties. “Thus the entire metro-
politan area requires one acre for sixty-six popula-
tion or one and one-half acres per 100 population.”
The National Park Service has suggested that the-
ultimate standard ratio of recreation areas to popu—
lation in county recreation systems shOuld and
likely will be far higher than the basic standard of
one acre to every 100 persons in city systems.

Standards for Specific Areas

The modern municipal park and recreation sys—
tem is composed of several types of properties dif-
fering in function, size, location, service area and
development. In general, these pr0perties can be
divided into two types—those required in all resi-
dential neighborhoods or readily accessible from
them, and those serving a large section of the city
or the entire city. In the former group are the
neighborhood playground, playfield and neighbor-
hood park; the latter group includes the large rec—
reation park, reservation, parkway and special
recreation areas. Several types of properties, such
as the playground and playheld, are of such a

163

nature that fairly definite standards can be devel-
oped for them; others, in which varied topography
and natural features are a primary consideration,
cannot easily be related to specific standards.

Most areas can be classified readily according
to type, although two or more types of properties
are sometimes combined in a single area. Often
a section of a neighborhood park is developed as
a children’s playground; ,a playheld and a neigh-
borhood park are combined in a single playfield-
park, or a section of a large park is developed as a
playfield. Increasingly, neighborhood areas are
designed as a combined playground-park and ele-
mentary school site. In such combinations it is
important that the essential features of the respec-
tive units be included in the overall plan for the
area.

The following are suggested standards for the
major types of pr0perties comprising a municipal
recreation system and a brief listing of their chief
characteristics.

 , u— \
lliiiigk ‘ =3}. _ ...._ "

J .

- ..
"v-1 -,'...._

The Play Lot

The play lot is a small area intended for the
use of children of pre-school age. It is essentially
a substitute for the individual backyard and is
needed only in residential neighborhoods without
individual backyards. It is found primarily in
apartment or tenement districts or as a. part of
large scale housing developments. The play lot is
not generally considered an essential part of the
municipal recreation system; provision of areas of
this type is primarily a responsibility of the public
or private housing agency.

Size. Recommended space for the play lot varies
from 1,500 to 10,000 square feet, with 2,400 to
5,000 square feet recommended by most author—
ities. The suggestion has been made that from
forty to seventy-five square feet should be pro-
vided for each child. In neighborhoods where
children up to eight years of age are to be cared
for on the play lot, more than 5,000 square feet
are required. '

Location. Play lots should be placed within a
block or super-block or near the center of one or

164

more units of a multiple-family housing develop-
ment. Children should not be required to cross a
street in order to reach one of these areas. Cincin—

nati alone suggests as high a maximum service
radius as one quarter mile.

Features. Desirable features are:
A few pieces of simple, safe apparatus such as
chair swings, sand box and regular swings, slide

and climbing apparatus suitable for young chil-
dren. '

One or more play houses.

Open space for running and circle games, pref-
erably turf.

Concrete walk or paved area for wheeled toys.

Benches for mothers and space for baby car-
riages.

The play lot should be surrounded by a low
fence or hedge, and shade trees are desirable.

The Neighborhood Playground

The neighborhood playground is ah area which
serves the primary play needs of children from five
to fifteen years of age, and also affords limited
opportunities for the entire neighborhood popula—
tion. It was long considered exclusively a chil—
dren’s area and its space requirements, location
and facilities were determined largely by the recre-
ation needs of the age group six to fourteen inclu-
sive. In recent years, however, its use by young
people and adults has made it increasingly a center
for the play life of the neighborhood. The play-
ground is still the chief center of outdoor play for
the children, but now it also affords limited oppor-
tunities for informal recreation for young pe0ple
and adults. It has become a center where the peo—
ple of the neighborhood can find recreation and
relaxation with their families, neighbors and
friends. The enlarged conception of the play—
ground’s function has made necessary a revision in
the previous standards relating to children’s play—
grounds.

Size. Suggested standards for the neighbor-
hood playground recommended by the various
authorities provide for areas varying in size from
a minimum of two acres to a maximum of seven
or eight acres. Cleveland, Los Angeles, and Ta—
coma suggest from three to seven acres; Cincin-
nati, five to seven acres; the American Society of
Planning Officials, three to five acres; Chicago,
two and five-tenths to six acres; Kansas City, a.
five-acre minimum; and Dallas, a standard of five
acres. Detroit suggests a standard of five to
seven acres for its central playground without a

school and a six to eight-acre site if it is to include .
a school building.

RECREATION?

The variation in minimum and maximum sug-
gested sizes is explained in part by the fact that
the space requirements for the playground vary,
although not directly, with the population of the
neighborhood to be served. The National Recrea-
tion Association recommends the following sizes
for playgrounds to serve neighborhoods of differ-
ent population :

Population of Neighborhood Size of Playground Needed

2,000 - 3.25 acres
3,000 4.00 acres
4,000 5.00 acres
5,000 6.00 acres

The same space standards have been adopted by the
Recreation Division of the Federal Security Agen-
cy and the American Public Health Association.

Many authorities have suggested the total
amount of playground space that should be pro—
vided for a city as a whole. One acre per 800
population is recommended by the National Recre-
ation Association and a number of others; a few
have suggested as a standard, one- acre per 1,000
of the total population.*

Playground space standards have occasionally
been expressed in terms of square feet per child
using the playground or living in the neighbor-
hood, but this basis for determining space require-
ments is unsatisfactory and is rarely used today.

According to one widely quoted recommenda-
tion, a city should provide twenty-five square feet
of playground space for each child of elementary
and junior high school age in the neighborhood,
and the playgrounds should be five acres in size.
The inconsistency of this standard is apparent
when applied because, according to it, one five-
acre playground would care for 8,712 children, or
the child population in a city of more than 40,000.

Location. The ideal location for the neighbor-
hood playground is as near as possible to the
center of the residential neighborhood to be served.
A desirable location in most cases is at, or adjoin—
ing, the elementary school site. Location of the
playground along streets with heavy traffic or near
railroads, industrial sites, other natural or man-
made barriers, or non-residential areas should be
avoided, wherever possible.

There iswidespread agreement that there should
be a playground within from one-quarter to one-

 

* For a number of years one acre per 1,000 was recommended
by the National Recreation Association as a standard for chil~

dren’s playground areas in a city. There is evidence that a
number of the authonties who suggest this provision for neighbor-
hood playground space are using the Association’s former stand-
ards. Similarly. some of the recommendations as to the size of the
neighbprhood playground are clearly based upon the standards for
the children’s playground originally developed by the Association.

IULY 1948

half mile of every home. In densely built-up
neighborhoods, or where traffic hazards would
otherwise affect use of the playground, the shorter
minimum should apply; in less congested neigh-
borhoods with relatively little traffic, people can
be expected to walk as far as one half—mile to
reach a playground. In cities such as Chicago,
Cleveland and Cincinnati the suggested service
radius is from one-quarter to three-eighths of a
mile; the last named city suggests one-half mile in
low density areas. The National Park Service
recommends the adoption of a one—quarter mile
radius; the National Resources Planning Board
states that there should be a playground within
not more than a quarter of a mile of all children.
Another authority suggests that the playground
should be within a five minute walk of every home.
In Dallas alone, of the materials studied, it is sug-
gested that the half-mile radius may be exceeded.

Various suggestions have been made as to the
size of neighborhoods which a playground should
serve. As a rule, if a neighborhood has much more
than 5,000 population, it is generally preferable to
develop more than one playground to serve it be-
cause of the difficulty in acquiring a sufficiently
large playground site to serve the entire neighbor-
hood. Besides, two adequate playgrounds, prop-
erly located, are likely to be used more than one
"larger single central area.

Features. The playground should provide most
of the following features:
A corner for pre-school children.
Apparatus area for older children.
Open space for informal games and play activ-
ities. ~
Paved area for court games such as tennis,
handball, paddle tennis, shuffleboard, volleyball,
and for roller skating.
Field for games such as softball and modified
soccer, touch football, mass-games and play days.
Shaded area for storytelling, crafts, dramatics
and quiet games.
I Shelter house with club room.
Wading pool.
Shaded corner for table games and other activ-
ities for older people.
Landscape features, with perhaps space for gar-
dens.
As a rule, the playground should be fenced and
its facilities lighted for evening use.

 

To be continued in the August issue of RECREATION.
Next installment covers Elementary School Sites, Junior
Playgrounds, The Playfield, The Neighborhood Park,
Large Recreation Park, Special Recreation Areas, The
Parkway, and others.

165

The Play’s The Thing

Robert L. Dishon

66 HE PLAY’S THE thing wherein I’ll catch the
Tconscience of the king,” said Hamlet craftily.
And the play’s the thing that has captured the

fancy of a group of students and faculty members

at Ohio University at Athens, resulting in bi-
monthly, informal gatherings at the home of

Charles Allen Smart, professor and writer—to

read plays. There, for the past year and half, they

have spoken with gusto the words of Othello,
laughed with Capek, Noel Coward and Moliere.

“This gathering gives students a feeling that
faculty members can have pleasure with them out—
side of attending dances and other social affairs,”
says Mr. Smart.

It all started last year when some of the students
asked Mr. Smart and his fellow professor, Paul

Kendall, about the possibility of reading Hamlet.

Interest in such a project came about as the result
of an English class in the University.

Therefore, when Miss W’inifred Lenihan, for—
mer head of the New York Theater Guild School
of Acting, visited the University last fall, she was
asked to help them show a group of students that
a play only lives when it is produced or, at least,
read. The New York actress, who made her stage
debut in “The Bethrothal” in 1918 and created the
role of Saint Joan in George Bernard‘Shaw’s play
of that name, obligingly agreed to read Hamlet
with Mr. Smart’s group. That was all it took.
Since that first enthusiastic meeting, the group has
met regularly.

Generally, during the discussion that follows the

end of a reading, the students suggest what other
plays they would like to read. Sometime soon the
group expects to read an original play by one of
its own members.
, During one informal discussion, an impromptu
melodrama was suggested. Everyone tossed in
ideas and shortly a plot was worked out. Each
character was compelled to think up his own dia-
logue as the play developed and, without shyness
or self-consciousness, the group turned the melo—
drama into a riot of laughs.

AFabIe.....

ONCE UPON A TIME there was an ambitious play director who went to Manhattan for a week
to see how the professionals did it. Between sandwiches at Horn and Hardart’s, he saw
the five “hits” that were current at the old theatres a short distance from Broadway. (As any
ambitious play director knows, there are few legitimate productions on Broadway. The Great
White Way devotes itself to movies, hot dogs, and glasses of orange juice.) Determined to
capitalize on the names of the popular plays he had seen, he returned to his converted barn or
ex-stable and gave the five as he thought he had remembered them. He didn’t have the actors
or any reasonable facsimilies; he didn’t have the lavish sets; but he did have a goodly supply

of naivete. He laid five eggs.

Once upon a time there was a crafty play director. He didn’t have enough money to buy
a train ticket to New York. 50 he borrowed a lead pencil and a sheet of paper from a pros-
perous friend. He put down the names of all the clerks, college students, steel workers, and
truck drivers he thought he could lure into the strange business of acting. Then he went to
the public library and read plays until Shakespeare and George S. Kaufman held no more
mysteries for him. He pondered the list of potential actors and, slowly, they came to life. He
saw each of them in one role after another. When he saw a well-knit group of them in one par-
ticular play, he selected it. This director was not “successful.” Broadway never heard of him,
and it is not recorded that THEATRE ARTS ever devoted an article to him. The only consolation
he ever had was that any time a small knot of play-goers gathered in the lobby of the local
theatre to smoke during intermission, at least one of them was overheard to remark, “I never

expected amateurs to give such a smooth performance.”
Written by Gene Mitchell for the Bethlehem (Pa) Civic Theatre program.

166

RECREATION

‘Vhat Place

Arts and Crafts in Camp ?-

Ann Mueller

F WE DEFINE handcraft as everything made by
hand, whether it be erecting a shelter, build-
ing a fire, pickling watermelon rinds, making a
checker board or blazing a trail, then we immedi-_
ately realize how closely knit is it with every part
of the camp program and that it cannot be con-
lined to the four walls of the craft shop. If this
definition is accepted, then obviously the first job
for the craftsman is to devise means for comforta-
ble living in camp.

The essentials for living are the same whether
in or out of camp: food, shelter and clothing. Let
us start with these, for the art of living is to take
care of essentials first:

SHELTER—Shelters may vary from a simple
lean-to, to a more or less elaborate cabin. A good
craftsman will make the most comfortable shelter
from the means at hand, that will best suit current
needs, and that will justify the length of time it is
to be used.

FOOD—Menu planning, budgeting, marketing,
cooking, serving and garbage disposal. Craftsman-
ship is needed throughout, and is limited only by
imagination and ingenuity of the campers.

CLOTHING—The complete process “from plant
to shirt” would not be possible in a camp pro—
gram. But accessories can be made from materials
other than cloth, and instruction in cloth making
could be done on a small scale. Threads can be
spun from plant fibres for use as weaving warp
(or could be twisted into rope). For practical pur-
poses, yarns might be purchased for weaving—
perhaps bought in bulk, undyed, and then colored
with vegetable dyes. The articles made should be
related, of course, to the campers’ needs or to the
camp. Thus, from the standpoint of education and
appreciation, the experience is more complete.
Weaving is one of the most fascinating of all
crafts, and appeals to boys as much as to girls.

JULY 1948

 

Expression

But man cannot live by bread alone. Along
with physical needs comes the need for beauty.
In the midst of natural surroundings, campers can
find endless enjoyment in exploring nature-j—lis-
tening to its music or trying to fathom its wonders
——to take on mental and spiritual fuel. Some, how-
ever, will have a need to go further and to express
their feelings, for true enjoyment is found only
through sharing an experience with others. The
form of expression will depend entirely on the
individual, and might be through music, writing or
the visual arts.

We know that primitive peoples have devised
most excellent ways of living in and with nature
because it has been an absolute necessity for them
to be independent. We constantly study and copy
their methods and strive to acquire their skills.
From the study of primitive art we know that
there is no such thing as “poor art,” because
expression has been the direct result of natural
development, growing directly from needs and en-
vironment. And if our art expressions are to be
worthy at all, they, too, must grow and develop
in this way. We must look forward, and not back-
ward—our expressions must be in terms of today,
and not yesterday.

In the fields of music and literature, children
have ready access to, and are being directed to—
wards, the best the world has to offer. However,
in the visual arts the pictureis somewhat different.
In the cities, the poor, and many from the middle
class, are living in uninspired surroundings: houses
of nondescript design, showy furniture, gaudy
wallpaper and little or no “yard.” Their imagina-
tions are stirred by little more than Hollywood
glamour and their “arty” accessories are Wool-
worth’s Hashiest. With no natural materials at
hand and industry filling our shops with so much

167

synthetic material, we are becoming accustomed
to imitations, and imitations of imitations, and ap-
preciation for natural materials is disappearing.
Before we can create beauty, or even recognize
it, wennust first have a capacity for seeing it.
When a city child, brought up amidst red plush
furniture, roses on the walls, paper flowers in
painted bottles and shiny linoleum that simulates
hardwood on the floor, is suddenly transplanted to
an environment of primitive shelters, rocks, diffi-

cult trails and little or no plumbing, the beauties '

of nature will not be apparent immediately. Just
as a doctor would purge an autointoxicated per-
son before putting him on a wholesome diet, so
very often we must put a person through a very
subtle purging process before he can have a capac-
ity for recognizing real beauty. In natural sur-
roundings, without any “store art” in evidence,
there should be an opportunity to develop an hon-
est folk art of our own—expressions that will grow
from natural needs and be inspired by the natural
environment.

Dewey has said, “Any experience is miseduca—
tive that has the effect of arresting or distorting
the growth of further experience.” In teaching, or
rather guiding, in the arts, it is necessary that the
leader understand the development of the creative
process and where it leads. Each experience should
give the child a feeling of honest accomplishment,
of greater understanding and appreciation, and a
thirst for knowing more. If it falls short on any
of these points there is something wrong with the
experience, because it has “the effect of arresting
or distorting the growth of further experience.”

The argument usually is: “But we don’t want
to make artists or craftsmen of the children; we
just want them to have a good time.” The answer
is that they will have a much better time if they
do a good piece of work. They will have a much
better opinion of themselves, and a process of
growth and development will have been started in
a desirable, direction. And what is a desirable
direction? “Desiring the best, and knowing why”
which is Dewey’s definition of culture.

In discussing an arts and crafts program, so
many defensive arguments show a complete lack
of understanding of the possibilities and limitations
in this field: “Our budget is limited”; “We cannot
afford the necessary tools and materials”; “We
have no space to set up a shop”; “Our leaders are
not artists”; “The child’s interest span is too short
to insist on good work.”

Let us explode these arguments one by one.
Budget has nothing to do with the quality of an
arts and crafts program. In fact, it is best to start

168

with nothing, in order to draw upon each person’s
resourcefulness to the limit. I once heard a camp
director, when praised for the quality and trend of
his craft program, say, “Well, you see, we were
not hampered by too much cash.”

The field of arts and crafts is so vast, and there
are so many crafts that do not require a shop, that
“shop space” need not be a deciding factor.

It is not so important for the leaders to be artists
as it is for them to understand the approach to
and development of the creative process. This is
a philosophy that can be learned and not a heaven
sent gift with which one must be born. Let us
take a concrete example: suppose that a group of
campers decides they need small knapsacks to
carry a few essentials on a hike. The line of least
resistance, and the way it is usually done, is for
the counselor to hand out a pattern and materials,

and give complete step-by-step instructions for
making them.

The Creative Approach

The creative approach would be: first let us see
what materials we have that could be used for this
purpose: Perhaps someone will bring in some bur-
lap sacks from the kitchen. Another may find some
pieces of canvas. If leather is available, well and
good. Someone else might find a small box and
want to add compartments and straps to it.

When material has been found, the next step
will be to make' a pattern. Since the purpose of
the knapsack is to hold some articles as compactly
as possible, it must be made to fit these articles.
Each child may decide to take different things of
varying sizes. Some articles may require a pocket,
others only a strap to hold them in place. Again
let each one work out his or her-own pattern,
working with paper first, perhaps.

Now another problem presents itself in assem-
bling. A loosely woven material like burlap will
need a different type of seam from a closely woven
canvas. Leather can be sewed still differently, or
laced. If laced, what type of lacing is most suit-
able, and why?

If the finished knapsack is well made, it should
be handsome enough in its own right not to re-
quire any added decoration, for good workmanship
is very beautiful in itself. However, if decoration
is desired, let us make sure that we approach it
just as honestly as we did the article to which it
is to be applied.

In order to make it more meaningful, the motif
might suggest the use of the bag, or it might be
just an abstract decoration. In any event, the
idea is for the children to draw upon their own
imaginations and skill so that what they produce

RECREATION

o . .
-. 4‘2» M 3: i". .7 :-
iimsma m imxami is» -:- .  -
32$? :41ka “n. . 3
Max“ his“?! (Ream:

54m “xii-PAN "
$‘o-v :5: w .5:

 

dhouses are fun and can be made from materials at hand.

‘he Creative Approach

 

‘

 

.411 can craft is inexpensive and projects are most attractive. Salt and pepper shakers are useful and different.

Knitting can mean a new scarf. This has good “carry over” value!

 

Pottery clay often
can be found nearby.

Soap is an excellent
medium for carving.

   

will be an expression of themselves and not of the
Chinese, the Indians or Egyptians.

The technique of application must be studied in
order to determine the character of the design; for
each material requires individual treatment,’as you
will soon see.

How best to apply decoration to burlap? It is
drab in color and very porous in texture. Suppose
then that we use brightly colored wool for em-
broidery. What type of embroidery is best suited
to loosely woven material? Would you take into
consideration the texture of the background and
make your pattern harmonize with the woven
threads, or would you completely disregard the
background texture? Of course, the background
must be taken into consideration, which means that
our design must- fit the mesh and perhaps be
worked out in 'tiny blocks.

\Vould you work out a brightly colored wool
design for the canvas knapsack? Why'not? Well
canvas is pretty tough to, sew and the wool yarn
would wear out from the constant pulling thrdugh
in the sewing process. And why not work out \a
design in tiny blocks for canvas? Because here the
weaving is so close that the blocks are not appar-
ent. Then how would you decorate the canvas?
Block printing would be one way—and then you
would go into the possibilities and limitations of
block printing. You might even make your own
printing inks.

How about the leather knapsack? Would you
embroider it; would you block print it? Does the
leather have a rich grain that you would not want
to spoil with decoration? Does the lacing give it a
rich enough decoration? If you are not satisfied
until you tool it, then better do some practice work
on a piece of scrap leather so that you understand
how to design in leather. The kind of tools you
have (or can make) will determine the character
of your design. But remember not to tool it to
death; the idea is to enrich the texture—not to
annihilate it.

How about a design on the wooden box with the
straps? Would you embroider it or block print it
or tool it? Does the wood already have a pattern?
Do you want to emphasize the grain, or is it so
poor that it would look better if painted? How
about decorating the straps instead of the box?

Evaluation

Let us evaluate this experience as compared
with the stereotyped pattern approach:

In the first instance, all the knapsacks would be
more or less alike, so that instead of individual
expression we would have mass production where

170

there is no excuse for mass production. The chil-
dren will pride themselves falsely for having cre—
ated something themselves whereas they have
merely reproduced something according to instruc-
tions. Some individuals in the group may not yet
have acquired the skill necessary for this piece of
work and the result may be discouraging instead
of encouraging. .

Now let us take the other approach: first, the
counselor has been enriched by as many different
answers as there are children in the group, and
each child has profited by the others’ experiences.
It grew from a need and was developed by the
individual according to his or her own ability and
imagination. They will have learned something of
the limits and possibilities of the various materials,
a new kind of respect for materials, and a higher
standard of appreciation. Several new doors will
have been opened to them and, in most instances,
they will be eager to explore further. But even if
they never create another thing with their hands,
they will have been started in the direction of
“desiring the best, and knowing why.”

I am still at a loss to know how to deal with the
“time” factor. Over and over again I am asked
“What can we make in time?” And I have
no answer. The value of making things can be
judged only in relation to a complete program, or
in relation to individual needs. If a definite value-
is to be found in making a certain thing, and the
experienCe is believed to be vital to the child’s
education or important in his or her deve10pment,
then the time element is not important. On the
other hand, if there is not time to do a thing—
THEN JUST DON’T DO IT.

It is most difficult to convey the true significance
and importance of doing original work. Many
people still maintain that “it is better to have a
child do a good piece of copy work, than a poor
original.” Most of this can be traced to the im—
portance placed on “exhibition work.” That is,
some leaders feel that it is more important to have
a lot of pretty things to show than it is to help the

 

Only a few tools are needed in woodwork.

 

RECREATION

child. If we consider that everything in life is
based on pattern, then it must seem obvious how
important it is to learn to think and create in
terms of meaningful pattern.

To adapt someone else’s designs for our own
work is sometimes justified—if we have learned to
differentiate between good and poor design. For
instance, we would not want to pattern our life on
that of a notorious thief because we have learned,
according to the standards set up by society, that
such a life is decidedly bad. And, so, in art, we
must become acquainted with what makes for har—
mony and what tends toward discord.

And we must begin to think in terms of quality
instead of quantity—not how many things are
made, but how well are they made. Just as we
have learned that the health of a child’s body is
more important than the number of pounds gained,
so must we be concerned with the mental and
spiritual development through the quality and not
the quantity of articles made.

There are a few safeguard rules that might be
followed by a beginner in such a program to make
sure that he does not get off on a wild tangent:

(1) Use what you have to make what you need. If
you must buy materials, be sure you know what
you need first, instead of making things just be-
cause you have the material.

(2) Remember that utility comes first. No matter
how beautifully you may have formed a pitcher,
if it does not hold and pour your liquids well, then
it is not a good pitcher, nor good art.

(3) Use materials honestly. That is: do not make

paper look like rope, or rope like rush, wood like
glass, or leather like “frog skin."

(4) Learn to produce creatively before you begin
techniques of reproduction. Learn to draw before
you begin to etch; learn to model before casting.

(5) Learn to “work IN a material, before you work
ON a material.” If your workmanship, color and
proportion are good, applied decoration may be
entirely superfluous.

(6) If applied decoration is used, be sure that it comes
from yourself and “belongs” where it is being
applied.

(7) If you are teaching, do not overestimate the abil-
ity of your pupils; you must take them where they
are in their development and start from that point.

(8) Good guidance in this work requires a great deal
of individual attention. Do not try to handle a
large group.

Another Aspect

There is another aspect of arts and crafts that
I have not mentioned, where most of the above
could be discounted. That is in the world of “make-
believe,” including the whole field of play: drama-
tics, puppetry, games and parties. Here the aim is
entirely different—we are striving for temporary
effects only, and anything goes that gives the
desired effect.

The pendulum of education islnow swinging fast
toward the importance of working with the hands.
Let us, as educators and social workers, be awake
to the importance of the growth of the individual,
and do what we can to help others toward this
growth through the development of a creative ap-
proach to living.

 

Comments on Camping

“The day camp should provide -for individual
differences and well—regulated freedom; for new
experiences with fiowers, birds, trees and the open
sky. Sports and physical activities which contrib—
ute to physical fitness are particularly beneficial
and can be enjoyed later in life. Music, dramatics,
crafts, and storytelling should be a vital part of
the program. And, finally, there should be adven-
tures in the fine art of living.”

—Dr. E. K. Fretwell.

“In a camp, the leader is a guide who lives with
the campers. TOgether they work, explore, dis—
cover, and plan a philosophy of life. Parents
should seek camps with leaders trained to a sen—
sitivity for the needs of daily life; leaders who
have a broader culture and scholarship than the

JULY 1948

run-of-the-mill subject—centered instructor.”
—Dr. William G. V inal.

“It would be good to have counselors in camp
skilled in such techniques as music, the dance,
graphic arts, literature—persons who saw what art
could contribute to a whole camp and to individual
campers. But even if I could not afford to have
artists and craftsmen, I would not give up art
experiences. I would go as far as we could go—
enriching experience, using every wooden box,
every gallon of paint available, every flower garden
plot, and appreciating all artistic contributions. I
would seek to find ways for them to complete a
good experience by summarizing it in some art
form.”—Abbie Graham in lVorking at Play in
Summer Camps, The Woman’s Press.

171

Make use of the raw materials to be found
at camp or on other out-of-door excursions.

I

Craft Materials in Nature*

OST CAMP SITES furnish many raw materials
M that can be used for crafts, although these
are not always found in great abundance. It is
well to utilize whatever opportunities the camp
offers for boys and girls to find these materials
exactly as they occur in nature and to use them to
meet needs in camp as well as for their own indi-
vidual needs. Summer souvenirs from the woods
and shore help to solve the gift problem as well as
keep alive memories of happy days.

Fresh water rushes are useful for making mats
or flat bags or for weaving chair seats. They
should be gathered in August and hung away from
the light with the cut end up. When they are dry
they will keep indefinitely. They should be damp-
ened and kept in a damp cloth while being used.
Mats may be woven flat on the ground, the sim-
plest pattern being the checkerboard or in-and-out
weave. Children can.gather and cure the rushes
for next season’s use even if they themselves will
not return to use them.

Materials useful for basketry are many - and
varied. Willow withes, stems or honeysuckle and
goldenrod, splints of hickory, maple, white oak,
and black ash all make attractive and useful bas—
kets. Coarse twig baskets for holding flowers or

flower pots are useful as well as decorative. Miss
Blauvelt, in her study “The Basket Maker Gathers

His Own Materials,” published by The Arts. Coop—
erative Service, gives directions for gathering and
preparing materials for different types of baskets.
Agnes Davis Kim in her paper, “Corn Husks,”
offers suggestions for gathering, curing, and using
this useful and inexpensive medium of the Indians
and Colonists. Those familiar with the rudiments

of basketry will have no difficulty in adapting their '

knowledge to these raw materials.

If you search in the woods you will probably
find a fallen birch tree or branch from which it is
possible to make many useful articles. ' (Campers
must be told of the injury caused by stripping the

172

Eva L. Butler

bark from a living tree. In fact, it would be well
to consult the nature counselor before using nature
materials.) Thin sheets of birch make real, woodsy
writing paper for letters home or for a book of
woodland poems. Small containers of birch can be
made by folding up the ends of a rectangular piece
and sewing them with fiber, string, or raffia. At-
tractive designs can be made by scratching aWay
some of the bark, leaving the different colored
under layer exposed.

A four-inch section of a birch log, with a hole
drilled part way through the middle, then sanded
and shellacked, makes an attractive candle holder.
Sometimes one finds a piece of drift wood that
suggests a dragon or frog or lizard. By changing
it a little here and there with a jack knife the like-
ness becomes more pronounced and satisfying.

Small “branches of trees, in diameter from the
size of a penny to that of a silver dollar, can be
sawed across in thin layers for buttons, pins, ear-
rings, and pendants. They can be sawed with a
coping saw. It is well in cutting thin pieces of
wood to fasten the branch in a vise with only a
little sticking out and to hold the saw with both
hands as a precaution against accident. These
pieces can be carefully sanded and mounted. Cedar
shows in its annual rings yellows and reds. Laurel
gives a beautiful white. Peach stones, black wal-
nuts and other nuts can be sawed in a similar
fashion and made into attractive pins.

Gathering balsam fir needles for fragrant pillows
or sachets provides another enjoyable possibility.
Once the needles have dried they may be stuffed
into a muslin case to be enclosed in a hand-woven
pillow cover or other suitable covering.

Some of the bracken fungi are particularly suit-
able for “etching.” Pictures scratched on the
undersurface with something sharp, such as a nail,
show up as a darker brown against the “un-etched”

 

*From Activities for Summer Camps. Arts Cooperative Service,
Incorporated, New York. $1.25.

RECREATION

 

background. They will keep indefinitely.

Seed pods, acorns, small fungi, cones from hem-
lock and spruce all may be made into pins, neck-
laces, buttons, or winter bouquets. Seeds of apples,
pumpkins and watermelons may be used for flow-
ers, for place cards or strung for necklaces. White
seeds can be dyed with natural or other dyes.
Ambroid cement and pipe cleaners extend the use-
fulness of the seeds. Tiny steel drills will bore
holes in anything.

Shells offer an almost unlimited variety of uses.
Plain shells make spoons, candle holders, salted
nut or candy dishes. Scallop and clam shells make
attractive baking dishes in which to bake and
serve scalloped seafood. Shells of various sizes,
shapes and kinds may be combined to make figures
of birds, pe0ple, flowers, hats, boats, and innumer—
able other objects that are limited only by the
imagination or experienceof the worker.

The pith of the common rush, juncus effusus,
can be gathered from early until late summer and
used as wicking for tapers and candles. It grows
in boggy places. The pith is most easily removed
soon after the rushes are gathered if two pins are
pushed through the center of the blossom end to
form a cross. While holding the blossom end with
one hand, two fingers of the other are placed on
the top pin and the pins are pushed toward the
bottom of the rush, separating the peel from the
pith, which rolls out like a long worm. .

Candles can be made by dipping the pith inn tal— i

low or kitchen grease, paraffin: or bayberry wax.
Best results are obtained if the wax is melted in a
tall slender tin can, double boiler fashion, over
water. If the children form in line, take turns dip-
ping their candles, and march around in a circle
between dips, the wax gets a chance to cool and
the children, intrigued by the rhythm of repetition,
frequently get an inspiration to make up a candle-
dipping song.

Natural dyestuffs offer a great chance for ex—

]ULY 1948

periment. Fruits, berries, roots, leaves, hulls, bark,
flowers, and nuts—all are possibilities. The out-
side skin of yellow onions makes a beautiful yellow.
Some colors are “fugitive.” They fade with wash-
ing or sunlight.

Before making the dye some “mordants” can be
made for helping to “fix” the color. Make sepa-
rate saturated solutions ofsalt, soda, and alum.
Soak many strips of cotton cloth in each of these
for at least two hours, then squeeze gently and
hang them up to dry. Soak others in light vinegar,
squeeze and hang up. Label each set of mordanted
strips. Now make a strong brew of some leaf or
root or flower that seems promising by placing a
quantity of it in water. A tin can or other recep-
tacle not used for cooking is good for this purpose.
Let it slowly come to a boil and keep it boiling for
at least one half hour. The resulting dye should
be strained. One of each of the mordanted sam-
ples can be dipped in the dye. Dip it several times,
letting it get air between the dips. Rinse in cold
water until it no longer “bleeds.” Then hang it up
to dry. Very exact records will be found helpful
if the same color is required later.

Writing ink can be made by placing one or two
crushed oak galls with about the same amount of
c0pperas (crystallized ferrous sulphate) in about
one half cup or one cup of water. Action takes
place at once, and in an hour one can write with
the ink. This is fun because the ink is almost
invisible at first, but when exposed to air and
light it turns black.

Clay is a material from which the old and the
young, the amateur and the expert craftsman all
can derive a keen sense of enjoyment, a deep feel—
ing of satisfaction not only in the finished product
but in the process of working. Clay responds to
the slightest touch of the worker, can be made to
take any shape, thereby offering unlimited possi-
bilities for creative self-expression.

Clay is frequently found in old stream or lake
beds or in excavations. It can be almost any color:
buff, gray, terra cotta or olive green. One usually
discovers it by putting one’s foot in it when it is
wet. It sticks so hard that it is an effort to pull
away from it. A piece of clay squeezed hard in
the hands tends to hold together and retain its

shape. Dry clay is much heavier in weight than
sand or loam

Sometimes clay is found that is practically free
from foreign matter, but if there are sticks or
stones mixed in, these must be removed. Then
the clay is set aside to age or dry in the air and
sunlight for several days. When it is dry enough
it must be broken into powder. The powdered clay

173

must be put into a pail or tub, covered with water,
and allowed to soak until it is soft enough to be
stirred with a paddle or large spoon. After stir-
ring until it is of an even consistency, the resultant
thick liquid should be poured through a coarse and
then a fine strainer to remove any foreign matter.
The mixture is then allowed to stand until the clay
sinks to the bottom. When the clay has settled,
pour off the water at the top, spread the clay out to
dry and allow it to stand until most of the excess
water has evaporated.

\Vhen the clay is dry enough to handle, push
and pull it until it is in one big lump, then knead
it as if it were bread. Some clay requires the addi—
tion of a temper to make it hold together and to
help prevent cracking and warping. Many of the
coastal Indians used pounded up shell or fine grit
as a temper. After temper is added to clay, the
clay should be thrown over and over again with
considerable force on a substantial table and cut
frequently with a copper wire, about No. 16,
stretched taut. This process is called wedging.
\Vedging forces the particles of clay closer to-
gether by getting rid of air bubbles. Repeat until
the clay feels waxy to the touch.

Croquet and Mr.

N THE NEW The Memoirs of C orgiell Hull, pub-

lished by the Macmillan Company, Mr. Hull
reminisces about his favorite form of recreation:

“Although I eschewed social activities when-
ever possible, I allowed myself one diversion that
proved of great benefit to me in body and spirit.
Late of an afternoon once or twice a week of good
weather, to clear my thoughts and get a little re—
laxation in preparation for the tasks I knew lay
ahead, I would take three of my associates with
me for a game of croquet on the lawn of Woodley,
'Henry L. Stimson’s home. Croquet became my
only sport, and, in the eyes of my friends who had
not as much occasion to play it, I, grew to be
something of an expert.

“To some, croquet may seem namby—pamby, but
it is really a very scientific game. A player must
give it his full attention or he has no success.
Four or five times a season I could go completely
around the croquet ground without stopping. I
let two or three of the other players begin first.

174

\

Time spent in wedging is not wasted, for the
more the clay is wedged, the easier it will be to
use it.

Birds, turtles, chipmunks, squirrels, woodchucks,
mice, rabbits and other woodland creatures may be
modeled for figurines, paper-weights or book-ends,
(or there are toadvstools and gnomes—the real and
imaginary woodland creatures are endless). Leaf
shapes make attractive dishes or trays, an oak-
leaf with acorns at one end, a maple leaf with a
worm, a lily pad with a pond lily, turtle, or water
insect. Costume jewelry—acorn pins, flower, but-
terfly and insect pins—provides reminders of a
summer out-of—doors.

When the pottery or model is finished it should
become bone dry. If it feels cold to the touch, it is
not dry. When thoroughly dry it can be fired,
Indian fashion, out-of—doors without a kiln. If
boys and girls start out by experimenting, they
will have a lot of enjoyment, make many interest-
ing discoveries and produce something a bit un-
usual. They will become more aware of shapes and
colors. If they start by conforming to exact direc-
tions, it may make them depend on the ideas of
others and they will lose a lot of fun.

Cordell Hull *

Then I started off from the first pole and began
to contact them and take them along with me so
as to play off of them.

“On one occasion Harry McBride, formerly as-
sistant in my office and later administrator of the
National Art Gallery in Washington, brought in
a ‘ringer,’ introducing him to me as an old friend.
It later developed he was the champion croquet
player of a certain section of the United States.
Nevertheless, I won, probably due to the cham-
pion"s unfamiliarity with the grounds. .- . .

“Croquet proved highly satisfactory to me be-
cause it took my mind off my work at times, and
because it took me out into the open air and sun.
But in my last several years at the State Depart-
ment, as the work taxed my. strength more and
more, my doctor required me to taper off on the
game, which probably proves it is more strenuous
than most people think.”

*Quoted by permission of The Macmillan Company, publishers.
Copyright 1948 by Cordell Hull.

RECREATION

“The wisele will manage somehow . . .”

Building
The 1948 Congress

66 0U CAN’T TELL the players without a score-
card,” as they say in the ball park. And you
can t plan your Congress Week without a Prelim-

inary Pamphlet. You have to know just what.

meetings are going to .be scheduled that you
shouldn’t miss. And this Year it is going to be
more important than ever before to plan in ad-
vance how to cover what interests you most at
the Congress. There is going to be more going
on than ever before. But more of that later. Right
now, make a note to write for your Preliminary
Pamphlet if you haven’t received it yet.

Since last month’s story- about the Congress ap-
peared, two additional names have been added to
the Recreation Congress Committee'for 1948—
Gerald B. Fitzgerald, Assistant Professor and
Recreation Consultant, University of Minnesota,
and Ray C. Kooi, Supervisor, Recreation Section,
Ford Motor Company. An addition to the Indus-
trial Recreation Conference Advisory Committee
is John E. Still, Director of Employee Activities,
Carter Carburetor Corporation.

Considerable interest has already developed in
connection with the all-day session for recreation
and park executives on Monday of Congress
Week. Under the chairmanship of Bob Horney,
Director of Recreation, Evansville, Indiana, a com-
mittee of local executives is working out detailed
plans. Recreation and park executives have al-
ready received a letter from Mr. Horney asking
for their special suggestions for topics which
should be discussed in this “Executive Session.”
The program will be built on these suggestions.
The members of the Committee who are working
with Mr. Horney are: Miss Josephine Blackstock,
Oak Park, Illinois; Milo F. Christiansen, Wash-
ington, D. C.; Alvin R. Eggeling, Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma; A. E. Genter, Akron, Ohio; Loyd
B. Hathaway, VVinston—Salem, North Carolina;
George Hjelte, Los Angeles, California; Robert
Hunter, Roanoke, Virginia; Howard Jeffrey,

JULY 1948

Brattleboro, Vermont; C. Evan Johnson, Newton,
Massachusetts; Thomas W. Lantz, Tacoma,
\Vashington; James C. Lewis, Lincoln, Nebraska;
Nathan L. Mallison, Jacksonville, Florida; O. E.

Pearson, Brantford, Ontario, Canada; and Miss
Jessie Schofield, Provo, Utah.

In addition to the special all-day meetings for
executives and for industrial recreation leaders,
there will also be all-day meetings for those inter-
ested in church recreation (Monday), rural recre-
ation (Tuesday), and recreation in small commu-
nities (Wednesday). These meetings will not be
discussion meetings, but rather brief intensive
training institutes, with opportunity for some dis-
cussion while participants are catching their breath
between activities.

And if, by 4:15 p.m., any day,~y0u have some
energy that is not yet spent, you can enter, for an
hour or an hour and a half, a group working in
some particular activity field—again on a partici-
pation basis. Plans now call for grbups in arts
and crafts, social recreation, music, folk dancing
and drama.

The complete list of discussion meetings is too
long to include here. It appears, of course, in the
Preliminary Pamphlet. Suffice to say that there
will be a variety of meetings on topics of current
interest.

This year the Congress goes to a new section of
the country. Many new friends are expected to be
among those present, as well as many, many old
ones. None of the friends, new or old, will be able

to attend or take part in all that is being planned
for that busy last week in September. The wise
will make their plans early so that they will know
what parts of the Congress will be most helpful
to them. The wisest will manage to bring board
members and staff members, divide the Congress
among them and take back home lessons well-
learned from all the meetings and special features.

175

We look forward to
continuing the
happy relationship

  

%  Visitor
from Britain

IR NOEL CURTIS-BENNETT, noted British sports-
man and founder of the National Playing
Fields Association of Great Britain, on his recent
visit to this country, addressed the National Recre-
ation Association in the Association offices. Sir
Noel took this opportunity to extend greetings to
American recreation workers, to express admira-
tion for the progress which has been made in this
country regarding the provision of playgrounds
and playing fields and to pay tribute to the record
of achievement of the N. R. A. He said, in part:
“My colleagues and I look forward to a continu—
ation for many years to come of the happy relation-
ship which exists between our two movements, and
to an ever closer friendship. I hope that in the
not too distant future your President may visit
England and may see for himself the way in which
the N. P. F. A. works; something of what it has
accomplished; something of the vast opportunities
for service which still confront us; something of
the tremendous need which exists to replace and
to rehabilitate the playgrounds and playing helds
of many of our crowded cities which were of neces-
sity requisitioned for wartime purposes . . .
’ “Our youngsters are playing in our busy streets
at risk of life and limb; they are playing among
the rubble of many of our bombed sites . . .
“Playing fields are the training ground for those
qualities of mind and spirit which, in combination,
are the basis of our common heritage and our com—
mon ideals and strivings. I refer, of course, to
the qualities of individual effort and initiative
combined with team effort and the team spirit.
“You will, I know, agree with me.that . . . we
need to cultivate these qualities more than ever
before if the civilization of free men is to survive.
. . . For the maintenance of liberty, and of social
stability, demands that our young people shall be
given the facilities for healthy games; the facilities
for cultivating their individual capacities while at

176

the same time acquiring the art of working to-
gether for a common end.

“That the capacity for world leadership of our
two great peoples owes much to this capacity to
play games—and to play the game—is readily ad-
mitted by every thinking person . . . In my judg—
ment, there can be no doubt that the: complete
failure alike of Communism and authoritarianism
to make headway in Great Britain is to be found
in the fact that our people, whatever their political
or religious views, whatever their status or occu—
pations, mingle freely in the fellowship of sport.
The playing of games unquestionably makes for
social and political stability of a very high order.

“The world’s finest example of the combination
in action on a vast scale of these two capacities
which the playing of games cultivates, the capac—

lities of individual initiative in association with

team effort—indeed, the world’s finest example of
a great people demonstrating the art of playing
the game—is what we in Europe have come to
know as the Marshall Plan. This magnificently
generous gesture, on a scale never before known
or even conceived, which has thrilled a whole vast
continent, is the example par excellence of the
qualities which grow and develop on the playing
held . . .

“I shall go back to England refreshed and re-
invigorated for my visit to America . . . I shall go
back determined to make a re-doubled effort to
help to secure for my people-uparticularly for the
young people who have had such a poor deal and
who face a very tough world——those facilities for
healthy recreation which are essential to social
sanity, essential to political stability, essential to
the vast effort we must make to repay—or at least
to make a really worthwhile response to your
magnihcent Marshall Plan . . .

“I should like to see, if it were possible, a nation-
wide scheme in America to establish American
helds in England for the use of our youth. The
American people already own a great place in our
hearts—why should they not own an actual part
of our land?

“Think of the excitement when the hrst Ameri-
can field would open, and how much it would do
to further good relations and understanding be—
tween our two peoples. I should like to see the
New York Playing Field followed by the Chicago
Playing Field, the Washington Playing Field, the
Los Angeles Playing Field, and so on. Here is an
opportunity for a gesture from the heart which
would thrill the world and make it clear that our
two peoples are determined to bring the world
back to sanity and peace once more'. . .”

RECREATION

People in Recreation

Doctors of Recreation

The first honorary degree of
Doctor of Recreation Science
to be granted in America was
awarded to Dr. Harold D.
Meyer during the June com-
mencement exercises at Salem
College, Salem, West Virginia.
Dr. Meyer, Professor of Soci-
ology at the University of North Carolina and
Director of the North Carolina Recreation Com-
mission, has made many contributions to the na-
tional recreation movement. He is President of
the American Recreation Society, member of the
National Recreation Policies Committee, National
Chairman of the Conference on State Recreation;
and chairman of the College Conference on Train—
ing Recreation Leaders.

In 1944, the honorary degree of Doctor of Rec-
reation Service was awarded to Dorothy Enderis
at Carroll College, VVaukesha, Wisconsin. The
announcement regarding the bestowal of the award
read, in part: “Under Dorothy Enderis’s wise and
far—sighted leadership, Milwaukee has deve10ped a
municipal recreation program for youths and
adults that is known throughout the country for
its excellence . . .”

 

Bud Kearns Retires

An active and prominent figure in the field of
recreation for forty years, and one who has made
myriad friends throughout the country’s recreation
departments in that time, W. A. “Bud” Kearns
retires from his position as Superintendent of
the San Diego City Recreation Department on
July I of this year.

One of these friends, George W. Braden, Na-
tional Recreation Association Field Representa-

tive on the West Coast, has known Bud Kearns
' intimately for over a quarter-century. Referring
to him as “one of those pe0ple in life who make
good companions for a long journey,” Braden says
of Kearns’ retirement: “Of course, with Bud we
know that his so-called retirement is simply a
change of scenery and the privilege of spending
more time on those personal things and leisure
opportunities that we all covet for ourselves.”

After graduation in 1908 from Omaha Univer-
sity, where he was an outstanding athlete in track,

JULY 1948

basketball and football, Kearns took up duties first
as Y.M.C.A. physical director in Lincoln, then in
Omaha, Nebraska. In 1917 he moved on to Oak—
land where he was to direct industrial and com—
munity recreation until 1923. From 1923—28 he
served as Director of Athletics and Physical.
Education at Oregon State College, from which
position he came to San Diego to take over as
Director of Physical Education and Recreation on
July 1, 1928.

Kearns has ‘been an active member of the Na—
tional Physical Directors Society, the National
Association of Health, and Physical Education,
and the Pacific Coast College Physical Education
Association. From 1918 to 1923 he was dean of
the Y.M.C.A. Physical Education Summer School
at Asilomar, California.

With C. E. Peterson, Kearns organized the San
Diego branch of the California Association of
Health, Physical Education and Recreation. The
first “Y” camp in Nebraska, still known as Camp
Strader, was begun by him, as well as the huge
East Bay Industrial Athletic League of Oakland,
California. The cooperative plan between school
systems and recreation departments for out-of-
school use of play areas—which originated in Oak-
land under-J. B. Nash, then Superintendent of
Public Recreation—found Kearns a close associate
of the latter in formulating this project. In San
Diego he has seen an area with seven playgrounds
grow recreationally until today the number is in
excess of fifty.

A New Face

“go-u...Tw»5y.;y.u~.vn-----rv-~—u.°.---v—---rA“HM”
‘ ‘ A I '. 

    

R. Foster Blaisdell, recently
has been appointed the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s
southeastern district represen-
tative. He will succeed Arthur
Jones who is now Director of
Recreation in Charlotte, North
Carolina. In his new capacity,
Mr. Blaisdell will visit communities at intervals
and will be available “on call” for any specific or
emergency visits.

A native of Waco, Texas, where he was Super—
intendent of Recreation, and more recently Super—
intendent in Tyler, the new appointee served two
years as field representative of the American Red
Cross overseas program of Servicemen’s Clubs.

177

Children
Building Tomorrow

My Name is Helga

I am still small,

It would make me very happy

If the postman would call

“Hello, America—far away—
.S‘ends you a letter today”

So you heartily I greet,

I wish we could in friendship meet.
I f we children unite so,

Our elders would not tell us no.

Written by a European child.

T IS NOT alone the presidents and ministers of
I nations who must help build tomorrow, nor the
fathers and mothers. Young people can do much.

The following suggestions for foreign service
projects for children in this country have been
drawn up by the American Friends Service Com-
mittee:

Foreign Service Projects

(Unless otherwise indicated, these are long-term proj-
ects. Other short-term or “seasonal” projects are some-
times carried on. Requests for further information about
these are welcomed.)

*I. TOGS IN A TOWEL

A personal gift for a child in Europe. A com-
plete outfit of new clothing for a boy or girl, with
toilet articles and one small toy wrapped in a towel
and pinned with safety pins. A class or individual
may put its name and address on a tag and pin it
to the togs. Many children and classes have re-
ceived letters from children and warm interna-
tional friendships have begun through this project.
A year-round activity. ,

*2. SHOE SHOP

Classes of children can inaugurate a “Shoes for
Europe” project. Some groups have printed fiyers
and made announcements telling of the need for
shoes and setting a date for the collection of good,
used, low-heeled shoes. A “bicycle brigade” col-
lects the shoes. Another committee arranges with
a local cobbler for repairs. Others enlist the help
of fathers in a “shoe shop.” Plays, sales, art ex-
hibits have provided money for repairs, polish and
new laces. A continuous project.

*3. SHARING

A collection of good used clothes may be made
and some of the same methods used as for the
SHOE SHOP. A year-round activity.

178

*4. SEWING KITS

Girls or mothers of younger children may make
draw-string bags, and boys and girls bring thim—
bles, needles, scissors, thread, notions. Letters
from overseas indicate these are much appreciated
because they give the recipients an opportunity to
help themselves. Names and addresses may be put
into the kits. N 0 messages.

*5. KNITTING WOOL AND NEEDLES

Nearly every woman in Europe can knit.
Enough wool for a sweater or mittens and cap,
and a pair of needles, are much appreciated. One
class of girls put on a style Show of their mothers’
and grandmothers’ clothes and asked, for admis—
sion, a skein of worsted or a pair of needles.

*6. PIGGY BANKS

A piggy bank on the table at meal time and at
church suppers helps to remind family and friends
of those who have little to eat. Children also enjoy
watching funds grow in a MILK BOTTLE for coins
when the money is used to buy milk for children
in India or Europe. Some children have placed
three containers in their rooms—a “coke” glass, an
ice cream dish, and a candy box. Those who have
done without one of these treats put the money
they would have spent into the proper container.
Money may also be collected in Goodwill Chests.
These are supplied free by AFSC. Money for
food may be earmarked for either Europe or Asia.

*7. WEAVE-IT

\Neave-it or knit afgans and simply made arti-
cles of clothing may be made by children. Instruc-
tions for these are available.

*8. TOYS

, Small, soft cloth or oilcloth toy animals or dolls
may be made and stuffed by children for little
children in Europe who have never had toys.
Patterns are available for these in a kit for ten
cents. If only one pattern is wanted please enclose
three cent stamp for mailing. If ordered in quan-
tity, a contribution toward the cost will be appre-

ciated. Also checkerboards made from three- -

quarter inch plywood, in two pieces hinged with
leather, checkers made from dowel sticks or broom
handles. Checkerboards are shipped only if they
are well made.

For further information or educational mate-
rials for children and leaders, write to American
Friends Service Committee, 20 South Twelfth
Street, Philadelphia 7.

 

*Lcaflets describing these projects are available in quantities.

RECREATION

Hi Ho Silver!—Nine expeditions into the
wilderness area of the West will be conducted
again this year by the American Forestry Associa-
tion. Organized under the name “Trail Riders of
the Wilderness,” adventurers from all over the
United States will meet at rallying points in Mon-
tana, Colorado, Idaho, Washington and California
to pack out on horseback into little-known, but
vast expanses of wild, roadless country.

The Trail Riders of the Wilderness is a non—
profit organization, directed by the American For-
estry Association, Washington, D. C., as one of its
educational activities. Costs of the trip are shared
by the riders, and all arrangements for packing
and guide service are made by the association. On
the trail the parties are joined by forest and park
rangers who assist in trail breaking and are avail-
able to answer the many questions which arise
concerning history and lore of the wilderness.
More detailed information can be obtained from

the American Forestry Association, 919 Seven—
teenth Street, N.W., Washington 6, DC.

—0—

Like to Dance?—There’11 be dances from all
the dancing world—both old and new—taught at
the Folk Dance Camp gatherings August 2-7 in-
clusive. Six hours of dancing, an opportunity to
swim, lectures and discussions are on the daily
schedule, plus a party planned for each evening.
The camp will be held at the College of the Pacific,
Stockton, California, under the auspices of the
Folk Dance Federation. "of California. Contact
Lawton D. Harris, Folk Dance Camp Director, at
the College.

—0—

Take Me Out to the Park—More than 124,—
000,000 visits were made by adults and youngsters
to New York City’s parks and playgrounds during

‘ JULY 1948

 

1947, an increase of eleven million over the record
attendance of 1946. These figures reflect the ever-
increasing demand on the part of New Yorkers for
public recreation facilities within the metropolitan
area. Of the forty—three activities conducted by
the Park Department, beach and pool attendance
again showed the greatest increase, seventy-five
and a half million people finding relief from the
heat during the summer months. Basketball and
softball, stimulated by city-wide competitive con-
tests, had an increase of 16,000,000 participants.
One hundred eighty-nine wading pools, in which
two and a half million youngsters splashed during
July and August, resounded to the ringing steel of
ice skates in the winter. Swimming pool buildings,
converted into indoor recreation centers at the end
of summer, offered opportunities for boys and girls
to engage in basketball, boxing and quiet recrea-
tional pursuits during the fall and winter months.
At other times of the year, special sports facilities,
such as archery ranges, bicycle paths, bridle paths,
bowling greens, horseshoe pitching courts, golf
courses, tennis .and paddle tennis courts took care
of the recreation needs of three million citizens.

—0—_.

Weekend Institute—Forty-five group work
students and two group faculty members recently
attended the Weekend Institute on Camping held
at Camp Sea Breeze, a Community Service Soci-
ety camp. The program offered discussions and
workshops which included such topics as pre-
season counselor training; various types of camp
settings and program emphases; philosophy of
camping and principles of group work applicable
to camping. The New York School of Social
Work group work faculty and the Association of
Group Work Students at the School jointly spon-
sored this institute.

179

, LW’W‘“

 

[TTLE CHANGED IN its essentials from medieval
days, archery in Syracuse (as in other cities)
is the only year-round sport on the recreation de-
partment program. Two unusually good facilities
provided and maintained by the parks department
encourage the enjoyment of archery by children,
young people, and adults from all sections of the
city. These facilites are: (indoors) City Archery
Center, the old Market Building, used exclusively
for this sport afternoons and evenings five days a
week from October to May; (outdoors) Kirk
Park Archery Center, a secluded and pretty glade
to which the winter service of instruction and
supervision moves in June and remains until Sep-
tember, from 10 am. to 8 p.m., six days a week.
The indoor center allows constant use of ten
targets; the outdoor center accommodates from
four to six targets at a time, with expansion pos-
sible to lower Onondaga Park for tournaments.
At each place the instructor-supervisor operates a
repair shop, enabling him to keep in use a maxi-
mum amount of the city-owned archery equip-
ment and supplies. This service represents a gen-
uine, if small, economy measure.

According to custom, two tournaments were
held in 1947. The March meet indoors had fifty-
three contestants; the August tournament out-
doOrs had 122 contestants. These figures, sub-
stantially above those for other years’ tournaments,
do not reveal the great enthusiasm marking the
entrants and their efforts to make high scores.

180

The M Oder

IN SYRACUSE, NEW YORK

Proper shooting form is demonstrated by Betty Tooker of Radcliffe
College, who is staff assistant at Teela-Wooket Archery Camp, Vermont.

Records of archery participation during the first
eight months of 1947 reveal a drop in numbers of
archers. Taking the evidence of the tournaments
as the truest index of archery’s appeal, however,
administrative headquarters of the recreation de-
partment took special and decisive moves last fall
to increase archery participation. '

The ranges at the Archery Center were made
subject to reservation by groups of adults during
evenings, and letters calling attention to this plan
were sent to clubs, organizations and other groups.
Additionally, school physical education teachers
were invited to send, or come with, groups of their
pupils for an afternoon hour or more of instruction
and practice.

In this way, archery—which is not a part of city
schools’ athletic and physical programs—could be-
come at least an informal part of the schedule of
interested physical education teachers and their
students. These invitations to groups are bearing
fruit in the form of an increasingbody of archers
in the city, according to a participation analysis
made on the thirtieth of November. The year’s
extra administrative emphasis on archery has been
considered worthwhile at recreation headquarters
because of archery’s noteworthy status as one of
the few sports which can be played with equal
enjoyment and attractiveness by both sexes, singly
and in couples, or in groups—and one which can
be enjoyed fully by people of any age, and through-
out life. It has promising “carry-over” value.

RECREATION "

iobz'n Hood

IN KEENE, NEW HAMPSHIRE

Howard Morse and Charles S. Farrar

WHILE TOILING one fine day with the numer-

ous duties in a recreation department for a
city of 15,000 people, I was interrupted by a visi-
tor at the door. He was a stranger to me, and
looked like a supply salesman with brief case and
a businesslike air. Just as I was about to tell him
that we didn’t need any, he asked, “What has the
City of Keene to offer to me and my family in the
way of recreational opportunities?” Imagine my
surprise! Here was just the sort of thing about
which recreation executives have dreamed. I felt
like shouting to the roof tops about the rapid
growth of the recreation program in this city!

After an enthusiastic, though quick, summary
on my part, however, I found that I had not even
mentioned his special interest, which was archery.
I discovered that he had been an organizer of this
activity in other sections of northern New Hamp-
shire and in Massachusetts. It was a business
man’s hobby—for this man was Howard Morse,
circulation manager of a state paper, The Man-
chester Union.

Following assurance of the close cooperation of
the recreation department in starting a similar
project in Keene and of the purchase of two four-
foot targets, stands, faces, and so on, an archery
program was brought into being in June 1947,
through the untiring efforts of Mr. and Mrs.
Morse. As a part of the plan, stories relative to
archery were published in local and state papers
to stimulate interest in the new program. Many

JULY 1948

archers began to appear on shooting nights, and
soon the group was large enough to elect a slate
of temporary officers, and to launch a large mem—
bership drive.

As areas used by the archers up to this point
were those delegated for multiple recreation ac-
tivities, members now felt it about time to find a
permanent home for the club. Upon request, the
city granted permission for the use of a new piece
of property recently purchased for a cemetery site.
In August df‘1947, the group moved to this area
and worked hard setting up a target range and
field archery course. This course was a “natural”
because it took the members into the wooded sec-
tions of the locality.

The new and roomy site proved to be a big
drawing card for the club as it was on a main
artery out of the city; and the archers soon be—
came well-known in this section of the state. An
average of thirty archers were active during the
week, and a larger group on Sunday afternoons,
many of them coming from surrounding towns.
No tournaments were conducted that year, but a
turkey shoot was held in late November.

Permanent officers were finally elected, and the
name, “Monadnock Archers of‘ Keene,” decided
upon. (Keene is located near famous Mt. Monad-
nock.) Club dues were set at $2.00 for single
membership, and $3.00 for a family membership,
a ten cent target fee to be charged per day for
faces, and so on. The club weathered the summer
very well—and without too great a strain upon
the treasury—thanks to the continued support of

'the recreation department and the hard work of

archery club members.

As winter snows and cold weather began to set
in, and it became necessary to find suitable indoor
facilities, sanction was obtained from the city for
the use of the City Hall Auditorium. The group
met-here every Wednesday evening throughout the
winter. Protective backboards of corrugated board
were made and used by club members to prevent
any damage to the hall.

An archery exhibition, scheduled for this spring
as a fitting climax to the indoor season’s activities,
was open to the general public, free of charge.

All in all, archery started as a request, and has
grown into a permanent activity for the residents
of this city. Not an outstanding feat by any means,
but a great addition to the many other activities
of the city’s recreation program.

181

Recreation 72
ews

Restrictions Lifted

Restrictions-have been lifted from recreational
and amusement construction and, therefore, it is
no longer necessary to obtain specific authorization
from the office of the Housing Expediter, Wash-
ington, D. C., to begin construction of such facil-
ities. The actual revocation order is as follows:

“Construction Limitation Regulation, as Amended
August 29, 1947, Revocation—Part 812: Con-
struction Limitation Regulation under Housing
and Rent Act of 1947; Section 812.1 : Construction
Limitation Regulation, is hereby revoked, effective
April 1, 1948. This revocation does not affect any
liabilities incurred for violations of the regulation
or for violations of any actions taken by the Hous-
ing Expediter under the regulation. (P. L. 129,
80th Congress, P. L. 422, 80th Congress.) Issued
this 3Ist day of March 1948.—Tighe E. Woods,
Housing Expediter.”

Arrest Spurs Play Survey

According to the Chicago Daily Tribune, four-
teen boys in that city were recently arrested for
entering a school gymnasium on a Sunday to play
basketball. The arrest has spurred the Board of
Education into asking Superintendent Harold C.
Hunt to prepare plans, with estimates of costs, on
the use of school buildings for recreation and com-
munity activities outside of school hours. “These
boys were not vandals,” a school trustee said.
“They had a natural urge to play and chose the
facilitiesthat were available, even if it was Sunday
and the school was locked. We shouldn’t classify
them as vandals or help make them vandals by
denying them use of the facilities.”

Novel Retirement Party

\Nhen V. K. Brown retired this spring (see
April RECREATION), over 500 friends gathered in
the theatre of the Museum of Science and Industry
in Jackson Park, Chicago. An all-star cast simu-

182

 

lated a court room scene, presided over by Federal
Judge Michael L. Igoe, in which V. K. was placed
on “trial” for his deeds of the past thirty-eight
years. President James Gately was foreman of a
jury that sounded like a roll call of “Who’s Who”
when they were introduced.

V. K. was found to be “guilty, as charged” 'and
was sentenced by Judge Igoe to the ministrations
of the Park Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund
for the rest of his natural life.

CAN
Minimum Base Salary

Ar A RECENT meeting, the Board of Directors of
'the National Recreation Association unani-
mously passed the following resolution: “The
Board of Directors of the National Recreation
Association recommends that the minimum annual
base salary for qualified, professional, full—time,
year-round recreation service be not less than
$2,400.” ‘

The position of the Board is as follows: “Recre-
ation leadership is a profession. It requires Special
interests, talents and training and long and irreg-
ular hours of service. To interest capable individ-
uals in taking the necessary training, and in devot—
ing their lives to recreation service, they must be
offered compensation adequate to provide a decent
standard of living and a reasonable degree of eco-
nomic security. Recreation salaries must be com-
parable to salaries in education and other related
professions. There should be a minimum, annual
base salary for qualilied, professional, year—round
recreation service. This national minimum should
be adjusted upwards in urban communities and
regions of the country where living costs are
higher than the national average. It should be
remembered that this is not a minimum for experi—
enced or supervisory or executive personnel but
relates to a beginning salary for those entering the
recreation movement to make it their life work.”

RECREATION

In The Field . . .
Grace Walker

The following interview with
Miss Walker, field worker for
the National Recreation Associa-
tion, appeared in the February
15 Battle Creek Enquirer News.

ANY FOLKS IN this community will regret the
departure of Miss Grace \Valker, who has
been spending several weeks here as representa-
tive of the National Recreation Association, work-
ing not only with the Hamblin Community Center,
but with the Young W omen’s Christian Associa-
tion. Few women performing similar missions
have left a more definite impression on the com-
munity than this cultured and personable young
woman, who has known what she has wanted to
accomplish and has set about her work with
frankness, enthusiasm and willingness to labor.
Her one h0pe, as she returns to New York for
another assignment, is that the seeds she has sown
in Battle Creek will be nurtured by those whom she
has taught and inspired.
It would be nice for this community if Grace
Walker could become a permanent resident. She

would find herself surrounded by friends and ap- '

preciated by organizations and by individuals. But
her field is the United States—and she has already
planned where she is going next and for how long.

Grace Walker was born in Gloucester, Virginia.
Her father was, and still is, a lawyer of some
prominence; her mother was a Bostonian, well-
trained for her vocation of teaching. There was
also another daughter in the family, Eloise, who
has made progress in the field. of education and is
now supervisor of schools in Gloucester.

Grace was trained at home by a governess, be-
cause her parents did not believe that the colored
schools in that southern locale would give their
children the right start in life. Furthermore, her
mother read poetry to her and she developed a
penchant for “working with words.” Even in
childhood she appeared in plays.

After the equivalent of a good high school edu-
cation, Grace was sent to the junior college at
Cheyney, Pennsylvania, because her father was a
friend of its president, Leslie Pinckney Hill, poet
and prose writer of distinction.

Then came Emerson College of Oratory in Bos-
ton, where. she won the degree of Bachelor of

JULY 1948

 

Literary Interpretation. This was a two-year
course, but the enthusiastic young Virginian put
in an extra half-year, working in the School for
Drama. At the same time, she was taking psychol-
ogy and other subjects in Boston University. Her
graduation, in 1923, was from the Emerson school.
For two. years she worked in community projects,
the social service work providing the means for
financing her college studies.

The next step took her to London, England,
where she attended the Royal Academy of Dra-
matic Arts—a step that led, quite surprisingly, to
the School of International Studies at Geneva,
Switzerland. '

Just as Miss Walker was preparing to leave
London to return to the United States, she was
invited to appear on a program in the interests of
East Indians. She was asked to contribute Amer-
ican Negro folklore, but she compromised instead
by agreeing to read poetry that had been written
by modern Negro poets.

The principal speaker was Sir Alfred Zimmer-
man, from Oxford, and he and Lady Zimmerman
were so impressed with the young woman’s artis-
try that they arranged for her to visit Oxford and
present her recital of poetry and readings. Her
visit was short and when _Sir Alfred offered her a
scholarship to the School of International Studies
at Geneva, she could scarcely believe her ears.

The Geneva experience, which began in July
1935, lasted for three months. There Miss Walker
found some 600 students, representing forty-five
nationalities. The students—as a rule—met on the
same plane, whatever their race or tongue. Of the

183

600, only sixty-five were Americans, representing
top students from various universities. Miss
“’alker recalls only one student who would not
cooperate with the interracial scheme of things.
He was from Georgia and even he admitted that
he would really have liked to attend Miss Walker’s
lecture-recital, but “tradition” would not permit it.

In the autumn (1935), Miss Walker returned
to Boston, where she was offered a position to
teach literature and drama at the famous Tuskegee
institute. Her experience had been practical in
both fields. She had agreed, on entering England,
not to apply for employment or to accept employ-
ment. But there were members of parliament, in—
cluding the Honorable Fennie Brockaway, who
were interested in such projects as “Abraham’s
Bosom”—in which she played the leading role at
London’s Holburn Theater for several weeks-—
and they saw to it that Miss Walker kept this role
for three straight months. She also had worked
in the Little Theater in Boston (now the Tribu-
tary Theater), appearing in mixed casts, chiefiy
in plays written by young writers.

Miss Walker spent two years teaching at Tus—
kegee, after which she returned to Boston, where
her chief work was at the Community House main-
tained by the Boston equivalent to Battle Creek’s
Community Chest. She worked primarily with
children, acquiring an experience that became val—
uable to her present program. Her work with the
Little Theater became a sideline.

In the fall of 1940, Miss Walker was called to
Glen Cove, Long Island (near Oyster Bay), where
she took charge of literature and dramatics for
children and adults, all colored, with the backing
of an interracial board of directors.

The year 1942 brought an additional interesting
experience from the Phyllis Wheatley House at
Minneapolis, named for the Negro poetess. VVheat-
ley House, built solidly, with a hotel—style lobby, was
erected by the community. Workers had apartments
in the house, there being a staff of thirty. Miss
Walker had a music director, two dance directors,
and a physical education director under her—and
literally thousands of children.

The University of Minnesota and the Young
W omen’s Christian Association worked with
Wheatley House on a cultural program which
Miss Walker directed. There was an excellent
drama group and, on one occasion, the collegiate
audience was so inspired that fifteen white stu—
dents entered in a body and asked to be enrolled
as members.

It was the Minneapolis experience, in all proba-
bility, that led directly to Miss Walker being called

184

   

to New York City in 1943 to join the National
Recreation Association. . .

Before assuming her field work, Miss Walker
trained in the New York office. Then she was
sent out with E. T. Attwell, also from Tuskegee’s
famous school, to set up activities.

Her first field assignment was in Richmond,
Virginia, which was not far from her home. There
she conducted an institute in creative arts, in con-
nection with the city recreation program. About
sixty-five people attended her classes, and her
groups included school teachers, church workers,
Y.W'. and Y.M.C.A. workers, Girl Scout leaders,
and such. It was strictly a leadership training
program.

There followed many other such assignments,
one of which brought her to Battle Creek to de—
velop a leadership program.

But as busy as she is at her work, Miss Walker
has hobbies. The number one hobby is cooking.
She soon finds her way into the kitchens of the
friends she acquires in a community—and “a good
time is had by all.” Her church affiliation is Bap—
tist, but when on the road, she attends various
churches, with a slight preference toward the Con—
gregational as she usually finds the programs there
“so interesting.”

Miss Walker is a pleasant conversationalist and
keeps abreast of the times on many things not con—
nected with her work. It is just'too bad that the
community has to lose her.

People ’8 Hobbies

Lon Clark, better known as “Nick Carter, Master De-
tective,” teaches his sons to make Indian moccasins.

RECREATION

Recreation Suggestion Box

Here is a chance to exchange
practical experience. This is your

1 Confidential page. Please send us any sugges-
Information . tions about ways of doing things
for ° that have worked for you and that

Our Readers

Eliminating An Eye-Disturber

Outdoor signs in parks are always a trouble-
some problem. No one wants a landscape scene
marred by unsightly signs. Yet, unless a sign is
eye-arresting and located in a prominent spot, it
is of no value. The Chicago Park District wres—
tled with this problem for years. Finally, however,
the Public Information Service of the Park Dis-
trict last year began its development of permanent
outdoor frames with glass fronts and hinged backs
that could be located in places where a sign was
not objectionable and where landscape effects were
not involved.

Layouts for these signs are designed in the Park
District office. They are then sent to a silk screen
firm which makes 100 copies in color on light
weight paper. One order of 100 signs serves for
at least four displays, counting for waste, at differ-
ent times of the year. In most cases, the cost per
paper sign ready for erection is less than one dol-
lar. Since specially painted signs with hand letter—
ing on them, made and erected for a particular
occasion, cost from twenty—five dollars and up, the
economy of the new plan is apparent.

In some instances, the silk screened sign is com—
pleted immediately so that there is no change in
copy, regardless of when it is displayed. This ap-
plies to summer Grant Park concerts, to Bucking-
ham Fountain signs, and to other signs where no
date, change of hour or change of location is in—
volved from time to time. For flower shows—and
there are four during the season—a standard de-
sign is being developed so that 100 copies are made
in one color and then twenty-five copies are im-
printed with a second color announcing the kind
of show, (whether Christmas Flower, Spring
Flower, Chrysanthemum or Azalea), and the
hours and dates.

JULY 1948

you would like to pass on to others.
Whether or not this department is
really helpful depends on you.

The silk screen paper signs delivered from the
maker are fastened by staples to 3’ x 4’ sheets of
compo-board or other rigid material about 3/8”
thick. There are twice as many of these boards at
hand as are needed to equip the outdoor frames;
so, when a new sign is to be erected, sufficient
new signs are stapled to board inserts in the shop
to equip all the outdoor frames. A _truck then in-
stalls the new signs in the field, bringing the old
ones back to be held ready for the next change.
Changes are made about once each month, but this
period is varied according to the occasion.

At the present time there are twenty permanent
outdoor frames at key locations in parks and on
the boulevards. The locations chosen for the
frames are usually at streetcar or motor bus cross-
ings near the entrances to important parks. An
effort is also made to locate signs where they will
attract the attention of passengers in cars or buses
waiting for traffic lights to change. This, too, as-
sures a good circulation of pedestrians and the
locations are so chosen that the signs will not dis—
tract or obstruct the view of passing auto drivers.

I  '-' 'w-Nf

swarm m if»: "

 

Located in places where signs are not objectionable.

185

Wild West Play Day*

All boys and girls come to the playground
dressed in Western outfits. The dress may be
cowboy, cowgirl, Indian, Spanish or any type suit-
able to days of the \Vild West. Possibilities should
be discussed with each group. Some may want to
invade the days of the gold rush and come dressed
as prospectors. Bad men you can expect, but the
sheriff’s posse can always handle the wildest of
the wild. The local courts may feel free to try all
cases. Prisoners of the court, when proved guilty
of such-violations as firing cap pistols before dusk,
may be put on waste basket details for a period of
time not to exceed fifteen minutes. Celebration
Day in the old town of the West shall consist of a.
series of races and contests plus the Gold Rush.

Gold Rush—T his event is one in which all
persons take part. All participants are assembled
on a boundary line and, at the starting signal, be-
gin their search for the golden nuggets, (peanuts
colored yellow). Ten yellow nuggets will be hid-

den in the area and when found may be exchanged
for prizes.

Race l—-Cowboys’ Boot Race.

Race 2—Cowgirls’ Boot Race.

These events are the same for both boys and
girls. Contestants run forty yards; twenty-live
yards with boots on. At this point, entries must
sit ‘down and remove their boots, the last fifteen
yards being run with boots in hand.

Chuck Wagon Race—Open to partners. At
the start, one partner acts as the horse and. pulls
his partner in the wagon over a line thirty yards
away. The wagon is then turned around and the
horse and rider exchange places for the return trip.

Indian Blanket Race—All persons who enter
this race must have a blanket or large piece,of
material to wrap around themselves. The wrap
must be large enough to wrap around the waist
and cover the feet. The race will be forty yards.

Contests—A Costume Parade which will, as in
the case of the Gold Rush, give all boys and girls
a chance to win a prize. Prizes might be given for
the most colorful costume, the most practical, etc.

Card Fun

Remember the card game “Go-Fish” in which

you asked your opponent for cards of a certain
rank and, if he had one or more, he would pass

 

*From Manual of Instruction and Iizforlnatioav—S'um-

mer Playground 1947—Lynwood Recreation Cmmm'ssimz,
Lynn/00d, California.

186

all of them over to you so that you could build a
set? Well, there’s a new series of nature games
based on a similar principle, but far more colorful
and varied. There are three separate games : Gold-
finch, a bird game; Monarch, a butterfiy game;
and Larkspur, a flower game. Each consists of
sixty cards divided into different sets and illustra-
ting, in beautiful watercolor paintings, sixty birds
or sixty Howers, depending on the game. They are
excellent for recreation departments, playgrounds,
schools, museums, Scout groups, and other nature
study groups, and are accurate enough for scien-
tific study the fun way. The games sell for $1.00
each; $8.00 a dozen in lots of one to five dozen
games; $7.20 a dozen in lots of six or more dozen
games; all prices prepaid. Write to: Nature
Games, Box 201, Angwin, California.

>1: >1: >1:

Another interesting set of cards, but designed
for a different purpose, are those printed by the
Millar Publishing Company, 538 South Wells
Street, Chicago 7, Illinois. They are post cards
for youngsters to send out to friends and family
during their stay at camp. The front of each card
contains a picture of the child’s camp, a caption
for the photograph, and the camp name. The back
has room for all the cheerful greetings and re-
quests. Cards must be ordered in sets of two,
four, six or eight and are $15.00 for 500 each of
two different post cards; $30.00 for 500 each of
four different post cards and so forth.

There’s also a camp “memory book” which has

allotted spaces for names, autOgraphs and pictures

of fellow campers; pictures of counselors and di-
rectors; a camp log; notes about special events
and the like. You can have the camp name printed
on the cover of the memory book, too—all for the
same price of 25c each for fifty books or more and
20c each for 100 books or more.

 

Don't buy until you see our free, illustrated catalog. Write Today!

sports equipment co.
FOND DU LAC, WISCONSIN k
ALMOSI A HALF ctutunr or liADtRSHIP

RECREATION

 

Tothose Who Care for America . . .

THE human service being rendered by local

park and recreation boards of the various
communities is of the utmost importance to
the future development of our nation. There
should be, in America, one strong central
group whose continuity and stability can be
assured so that regardless of changed condi-
tions in various localities, there will always
be this central service organization dedicated
to the purpose of helping to make effective
the park and recreation services being car-
ried on by local bodies.

Fortunately, we have such an organization
in the National Recreation Association. The
services of this Association are of inestimable
value. We all have a common obligation to
help to keep it ready to serve when needed.

All of us who believe in, and care 'for,
America and who want to see our commu-
nities made more livable, should not only be
ready to contribute to current work of this
Association but, within our means, should
help to insure itsifuture.

S. A. PERKINS,
Publisher, and President Perkins Invest-
ment Company, Tacoma, .Washington.

The Association is delighted to have this mes-
sage from a man Whose interests are so broad and
Whose knowledge of the needs of the northwest
and the nation is so comprehensive.

For sixty years Mr. Perkins has filled important
positions in local, state and national life.' He has
been eminently successful in business, keeps in
close touch with the park and recreation work of
his own city, Tacoma, Washington, and for a num-
ber of years has served as sponsor for the National
Recreation Association.

lULY 1948

Now Available!

A Guide for Planning Facilities
for Athletics. Recreation. Phys-
ical and Health Education

A composite guide of 125 pages developed by 65
authorities in a National Facilities Conference spon-
sored by fourteen national agencies and associations.

For school superintendents, their boards, park and
recreation leaders, health and physical education
administrators and supervisors, architects, engineers,
and other civic and professional leaders interested
in functional planning of modern facilities.

Price $1.50 postpaid
Order from

American Association for Health“

Physical Ed ucation.and Recreation
l20l lbth St.. N.W., Washington 6. D. C.

01'

The Athletic Institute
209 South State Street. Chicago 4. Illinois

 

ma

K W
POOI. WATER

   
   
    
    
 
 
  
   
  

 

CLEAR, sparkling water in your pool is the real invitation to
swimming pleasure. So don’t let disagreeable algae growth or
slime spoil business for you this summer. Use EXALGAE. This
entirely new product not only destroys algae present in the
water; it also prevents further development. Yet EXALGAE
is colorless and odorless. It will not stain pool finishes—nor
will it irritate swimmers’ skin or eyes.

Easy, economical to use!

EXALGAE is a solution that may be introduced directly into
the pool. It disperses quickly and requires no special equipment.
After the first administration, very little EXALGAE need be
added weekly for continued protection. It’s a simple, inexpen-
sive way to attract more customers and keep them coming back.

So be sure of clear, inviting water in your pool this season «—
build a bigger business, make more profit—with EXALGAE.
For further information on how to keep your pool water clean
and attractive with minimum effort, write for Folder #744.

EXALGAE—Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.

INERTOL co., INC.

«470 Frelinghuysen Avenue 19 South Park
Newark 5 , N. J; ’ San Francisco 7, Calif.

       
 

188

NOTHING in your hands! Nothing up
your sleeves! But look . . .

. . . out of your present income grows a
Wonderful future. There’s a home in the
country, college for your children, travel
and fun for the Whole family, even a com-
fortable retirement income for yourself.

Here’s how the magic works. All you
do is sign up for the Payroll Plan. Then
regularly, automatically, part of every-
thing you earn is used to purchase U. S.
Savings Bonds.

And magically, Week after week, these
automatic raving: pile up the money
you’ll need to pay for the future you want!

Don't forget that you’re making

 

  

money, too . . . every 375 Bond you buy
today will be worth $100 in just 10
years. And these Bonds play a big part
in helping keep our country Enancially

sound and strong, too.

If you’re not on a payroll, and have a
checking account, you can still enjoy
the magic of automatic saving with the

Bond-A—Month Plan. Ask about it at
your bank.

AWMAWO SAW/V6 /$ SURE SA VIA/6' — d 5'. 5A VII/65' (BOA/05

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the m

SECURITY

Magazine Publirher: of America a: a public service. W

RECREATION

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

The Research Quarterly, October 1947

Some Aspects of the Role of Games, Sports and
Recreational Activities in the Culture of Modern
Primitive Peoples—The New England Maoris,
Florence Stumpf and Frederick W. Cozens.

Journal of Health and Physical Education, February
1948

Planning and Organizing Ski Events, Marilyn
Christlieb.

An Orientation Program for College Freshmen,
Staff of VVoman’s College, University of North
Carolina.

\Vhat Can Be Done to Further Dance in Ameri-
can Education P,’ Margaret Erlanger.

“How We Do It.”

Parks and Recreation, February 1948

The Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois—Part I, John Barstow Morrill.

The Maintenance Mart.

Safety Education, March 1948

Safe Playgrounds, N. E. Viles.

Let’s Plan Weber County Recreation. \Veber County,
Ogden City, Utah, Planning Commission, City and
County Buildings. Ogden, Utah.

American City, February 1948

Tacoma’s New Recreation Commission, Thomas
W. Lantz.

W'ar Memorials—Planned or Completed.

Camping Magazine. February 1948

Special Leadership Training Issue.

American City, January 1948

Stockholm—The Park City, Rodger L. Simons.

Swimming Pool Turns Civilian, R. W. Rink.

Camping Magazine, January 1948

These Are Your Forests, John Sieker.

Design for a Darkroom, editorial staff, Eastman
Kodak Company.

New Trends in Nature Education.

Vacation Camp for Mothers, Janet P. Murray.

Scholastic Coach, February 1948

High School Boxing. Arch Steele.

Getting the Range, Charles L. Russell.

1011521831 of Health and Physical Education, January

The Dance Symposium, Lois Ellfeldt.

Getting More Real Camping into Camps, Barbara -

Ellen Joy.
Field Days, Charles A. Bucher.
Improving Public Relations Through a Volley
Ball Demonstration, Norma M. Leavitt.
Community Service News, January-February 1948
Simcoe County Arts and Crafts Association, Nora
L. Marshall.
Beach and Pool, February 1948
Diatomaceous Earth Filtration.
Survey Midmonthly, January 1948
Nobody Does Nuttin’ for Nobody for Nuttin’,
Hyman Sorokoif.
Beach and Pool, December 1947
Promoting an Aquatic Show. William P. Massof.
Aqua Gala, 1947, Samuel L. Friedman.
Organizing a Water Safety Program.
Beach and Pool, January 1948

Two Army Pools Now Municipally Operated.
Disease and Swimming.
Hygeia, February 1948
Prescription for Play, Fred V. Hein.
The Research Quarterly, December 1947
A Study of Certain Factors in Their Relation to
the Play of Children, D. B. Van Dalen.
Child Study. Spring 1948
Chills and Thrills in Radio, Movies and Comics,
Josette Frank.

JULY 1948

   
    
  
     

H “ /aa“¢aezr   o f

 

_ DIAMOND
SUPER RIN-GER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat«
treated t9 prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
0
Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 

.... - -

 

for

£very Sport!

Available
Thru Leading.

Athletic Goods
Distributors



r”! tin/£57 IN 2'”: I'll-'10 I
unnuucwnmo comraur . $1. LOUIS a. no.

  

189

Books Received

 

Book of Festivals, The, by Dorothy Gladys Spicer.
The Woman’s Press, New York. $3.75.

Community Recreation—A Guide to Its Organization
and Administration, by Meyer Brightbill. D. C.
Heath and Company, Boston, Massachusetts.

$5.00.

Day Camping Fun, by Mabel L. Jobe, Jeanne Hogan
and Elizabeth L. Jobe. Recreation Department,
District of Columbia.

Developmental Physical Education, by James S. Nicoll
and May Belle Long. World Book Company,
Yonkers—on—Hudson, New York. $2.44.

Fisherman’s Knots and Nets, by Raoul Graumont and
Elmer Wenstrom. Cornell Maritime Press, New

York. $3.00.

Follow the Music, by Lottie Ellsworth Coit and Ruth
Bampton. C. C. Birchard and Company, Boston,

Massachusetts. $2.00.

Health and Physical Education for Junior and Senior
High Schools, by David K. Brace." A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York._ $4.00.

Introduction to Health Education, by Jackson R.
Sharman. A. S. Barnes and Company, New YOrk.

$3.00.

Music in Playtime, by Berenice Benson Bentley and
Sophie B. Mathewson. Clayton F. Summy Com-
pany, Chicago, Illinois and New York. $3.25.

Official Wrestling Guide, 1948. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, Incorporated, New York. $.50.

Operating Manual for Swimming Pools, by R. N. Per—
kins. Sr. The Refinite Corporation, Omaha, Ne-

braska.

Outdoor Sports Manual, compiled by the editors of
Popular Mechanics Magazine. Popular Mechanics

Press, Chicago, Illinois. $2.00.

Physical Education Demonstration, by Miriam Gray.
A. S. Barnes and Company, Incorporated, New

York. $3.00.

Physical Education: Interpretations and Objectives,
by Jay B. Nash. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $3.00.

Planning the Neighborhood, by The American Public
Health Association. The Committee on the Hy-
giene of Housing, Chicago, Illinois. $2.50.

Power Golf, by Ben Hogan. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, Incorporated, New York. $3.00.

Proceedings of the National Conference of Social
Work. Columbia University Press, New York.

Rabbits, by Herbert S. Zim. William Morrow and
Company, Incorporated, New York. $2.00.

Red Top—Reminiscences of Harvard Rowing, by
Robert F. Herrick, Harvard University Press,
Cambridge, Massachusetts. $5.00.

Spanish Dancing, by La Meri. A. S. Barnes and Com—
pany, Incorporated, New York. $5.00.

Technic of Team Sports for Women, Second Edition,
by Margaret H. Meyer and Marguerite M.
Schwarz. W. B. Saunders Company, Philadel-

phia and London.

Toward Public Understanding of Casework, by Viola
garadise. Russell Sage Foundation, New York.
2.00.

Trends in Social Work, by Frank J. Bruno. Columbia
University Press, New York. $4.50. -

Winning Basketball, compiled and edited by Ray
\Velsh. Burgess Publishing Company, Minneapo-
lis, Minnesota. $2.50.

190

Authors in This Issue

BEN HOGAN—This year’s winner of both the
Professional Golfers’ Association championship
and the California National Open—a record which
hasn’t been duplicated by any golfer during the
past twenty—six years. Article on page 153.

HELEN HULL JACOBS—National Women’s Sin-—
gles Champion in 1932-33-34-35; National Dou—
bles, 1932—34—35 ; National Mixed in 1934. Win-
ner of the Wimbledon Singles Championship in
1936. Article on page 156.

GEORGE D. BUTLER—Research specialist, Na-
tional Recreation Association staff. Article on
page 160.

ANN MUELLER—Research and Planning Asso-
ciate, Pennsylvania State Planning Board, Harris-

‘burg. Miss Mueller, who has taught handcrafts

and organized craft guilds throughout the state,
wrote her article for one of Dr. L. B. Sharp’s
classes at Life’s National Camp. Article on page
167. .

EVA L. BUTLER——Instructor at the State Teach-
ers College, Willimantic, Connecticut. Article on

page 172.
CHARLES S. FARRAR—Director of Recreation in

Keene, New Hampshire. Article on page 181.

There is nothing unique
about my story . . .

Here is a man who has broken laws consistently i
since he was a four-year-old. Now he has broken
the law of gravity and suavely ignores the ques-
tions of those. who are trying to help him by
beginning another lurid confession. This time,
however, his interrogators are smart. They read
THE SURVEY midmonthly regularly. As a result
they have some pretty good ideas about bring-
ing the old reprobate down to earth and getting
at the root of his trouble. If you would like to
be smart too, why not subscribe today to this
comprehensive journal of social work? One
year, $4; two years, $6. Make out your check
to Survey Associates, Inc., and mail it to:

SURVEY MIDMONTHLY
||2 East |9th Street. New York 3. New York

 

RECREATION

 

The Babe Ruth Story

By Babe Ruth as told to Bob Considine. E. P.
Dutton and Company, New York. $3.00.

No TALL TALE, but equally fabulous, is the career
of a heavy-set quash-nosed individual named
George Herman Ruth. This is the story of the
youngster who learned the trade of tailoring in
a training home for orphans and incorrigibles (_ he
was not an orphan) and went on from there to
become the mighty Babe, home—run king, idol of
millions and highest paid player in baseball his-
tory. But Bob Considine, who has written this
story in the first person, has done more than de-
scribe the exploits and milestones in Ruth’s life.
He has captured. too, the personality of the players
and teams—particularly the great Yankees of the
Twenties and Thirties—and has included the im-
portant stories and events in big league baseball.

The People’s Song Book

Edited by \Valdemar Hille. Boni and Gaer, New
York. $2.50.

THIS IS AN unusual song collection, designed, no
doubt, to meet the growing interest in music
on every side, and with an eye to the world situa-
tion in a time of Hux. These are work songs, play
songs, simple tunes that have grown out of every-
day experiences of the people. There is special
emphasis on “freedom songs” to which one of the
four main sections is devoted; to Union Songs
and to songs that have “Helped Build America.”
There is also a section of “Topical-political
Songs” including references to the high cost of
living, Jim Crow-ism and other problems of the
.day. All the songs are given with words, melodies
and piano accompaniment, and brief descriptive
notes are added in a number of cases.

JULY 1948

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

Complete Book of
Showers and Engagement Parties

By Jo-Ann Leeming andMargaret Gleeson. Gar-
den City Publishing Company, New York.
$2.00.

HERE IS AN excellent addition to the social" rec-

reation library, and useful for a hostess, club
or organization. A collection of eighty-five planned
showers and parties, including ways of announcing
the engagement, plans for bridal showers, stork
showers, and a number of special events such as
liouse'warmings, gold and silver wedding anniver-
saries, and the like. Also included are suggestions
for gift presentations, menus, recipes, favors and
games. A classified index increases its usefulness.
Material of this sort is hard to find, except here
and there in magazines, so this book will fill a
decided need in the recreation field.

Birds of Prey

of Northeastern North America

By Leon Augustus Hausman. Rutgers Univer-
sity Press, New Brunswick, New Jersey. $3.75.

THIS FASCINATING BOOK about the much ma-
ligned birds of prey—the American Vultures,
the American Hawks‘, Eagles and the Owls—is
beautifully illustrated by the brown and white pen
and ink drawings of John Bates Abbot.

Mr. Hausman gives full descriptions of all these
birds, and he also includes interesting information
concerning our misconceptions and superstitions
about them, their place in nature’s balance and
literary and poetic references to them. '

This book should join the author’s Encyclopedia
of Eastern Birds and his Field Book of Eastern
Bird: on the shelf of any nature library. All bird
lovers will wish to own it, not only for its infor-
mation, but also as a fine example of bookmaking.

191

Young People ’3 Corner

The Mountain Tamer

By Arthur D. Stapp. William Morrow and Com-
pany, New York. $2.50.

THIS IS A well-written, exciting story of a high
school boy who faced his fear of high places,
and finally won. Good in all sports, Bob Moore
secretly was terrified of height. It took a serious
accident and the understanding of a club adviser
before he found that fear is not necessarily coward-
ice. It is an excellent mountain-climbing adventure
story that will appeal to teen-age boys and girls.

A Treasury of Laughs

By Joanna Strong and Tom B. Leonard. Hart
Publishing Company, New York. $2.00.

COLLECTION of jokes, riddles, puns, comic reci-
tations, tongue-twisters, boners, limericks,
gags and wisecracks are included in this Treasury
—all geared to the nine-sixteen year old’s sense of
humor. Club leaders, whether adult or teen—age,
could add many of these to their repertory, and use
them in minStrels or amateur programs for their
age-groups. Corny—to be sure—but good.

Girl Alive

By Frances Ullman. The World Publishing Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

FRANCES ULLMAN, six years the editor of the
teen-age magazine “Calling All Girls,” knows
the questions which bafHe and confuse the adoles-
cent girl. What is even better, she knows the
answers and gives them sympathetically but with
a down—tO-earth, forthright manner that never con-
demns or makes fun of the problems that loom so
disproportionately large in the teen-age girls’
world. Problems of behavior, dating, drinking,
dressing, etiquette, dieting, school and family rela-
tionships are dealt with deftly, without subterfuge
or hedging.

Every teen-age club, or girls’ club, should put
this book on its library shelf. Leaders Of girls’
groups will find it very useful in answering ques-
tions. Teen-age girls who read it for themselves
will find that it will give them greater confidence,
and straighten out many of the snarls that com-
plicate life at that age.

192

Robert Schumann and Mascot Zifl‘

By Opal Wheeler. E. P. Dutton and Company,
New York. $2.75.

THE AUTHOR IS well-known for her books of col-
lected songs, and for her charming stories of
such musicians as Stephen Foster, and Handel.
This new book is of the same high quality. It tells
the boyhood story Of Robert Schumann and is a
charming book tO give any youngster with an in-
terest in music, or to add to a music library. The
story is well-told, the language is simple, and the
illustrations are gay. A small selection of Schu-
mann’s songs fit beautifully into the text.

Come and Play

By Ruth Bampton. Mills Music Company, In-
corporated, New York. 50.

THIS SMALL BOOKLET contains fifteen short
pieces about animals. They are in the form Of
descriptive music, to be played on the piano. There
are full-page and smaller illustrations, also sugges-’
tions for use of the material for singing games and
appreciation purposes, and for creative response.

Officers and Directors Of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board Of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCII ER, President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUs T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N..Y.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER. Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON. New York. N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I.. N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E .MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, VVOodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York. N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

July and September

o”

Wayne County, New York

Anson I. Marshall, Chairman, Wayne County
September 20-23

Recreation Council, Marion, New York

Shleplgegdstown, West Virginia Oliver Ikenberry, President, Shepherd College
uy -

Providence, Rhode Island

J John Cronin, Director of Recreation
uly 6-9

Statesville, North Carolina

Woodrow W. Dukes, Director, Department of
September 6-10

R ecreation

Charlottesville, Virginia

Miss Nan Crow, Director of Recreation
September 13-17

Owensboro, Kentucky

Warren Magee, General Secretary, YMCA
September 20-24

Baltimore, Maryland

Thomas G. Ferguson, Supervisor of Health and
July 19-23

Physical Education, State Department of Edu-
cation

For those who are interested in recreation training opportunities, special attention is given to the training sessions
which will be conducted during the National Recreation Congress at Omaha, Nebraska, September 26-30. One-
day sessions are planned for church recreation leaders, rural recreation leaders and small community recreation
leaders, respectively. In addition, daily sessions are planned for those interested in music, drama, arts and crafts,
social recreation and folk dancing. Members of the Association’s training stag, as well as other recognized lead-

ers, will take part. For further information, write to T. E. Rivers, Secretary, Recreation Congress Committee,
315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

our lives. It is important to us because
it is a form of expression which“ brings pleasure
in the doing. In that way it is a kind of art. It
helps maintain balance in measuring simplicity
against complexity . . .

“SPORT occupies a very important place in

“It used to be that sport was__ thought to be a
leisure time activity. People did it when they
had an hour left over from the routine of their
day or they did it on a week end when they had

nothing else to do. But now I think that people
make time in their day for sports. They realize
that it is a necessary thing in their lives. Why
is this? Because they have found that sports
help people to lead a balanced existence. People
need to play. There can be no doubt that play
through sports helps to keep the mind young.”

Helen Wills M oody at the Herald
Tribune Forum, New Y or}: City.

