 

Contents

 

July 1949

Recreation and the Individual 31st National Recreation Congress. . . . . 204
(editorial), by Howard Braucher. . . . 173 In the Field . . . Lawn H. Weir . o - o o - . 206
Howard Braucher—as we knew him. . . 174 Canoemanship Tests . o o o . . . . . _ _ . . o o 208
Public Recreation—A Community Must, Hostels in England and “Vales,
by James 13- Rogers - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 175 by Bernard Trayner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210

A Counselor’s Quest, Stephen S. Wise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211

by Alice Gibson Heap . . . . . . . . . . . . . 179 State News I .0‘95 212

Joseph Lee’s Own LiSt 0f P13." Facmties- 181 Harry M. Hooker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213

Cooperation is the Watchword, Vandalism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.14

by Albert West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182
Puppets in Opera, by Ellen E. Wood. . . 185 Regula- Features
The Ole Swimmin’ Hole . . . . . . . . . . . . . 186 “torld at Play . . _ . _ . o o o o o . _ . . . O o . . . 205

“No Swimming,” by Lewis G. Scoggin. . 187 Recreation News , _ . . . . . o . . _ . . . o . . . 215

Water Games for Summer Program, Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216

by Mary Buice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 188 Magazines and Pamphlets . o o O . . - - o . o . 217

Tennis Teacher Extraordinary, by Rich- New publications o o . . _ . . o . . o o . . _ . 219

ard Dempewolff and Cameron Day . . . 190

Recreation Training

EVOlutlon 0f Tennls StPOkCS - - - - - - - - - - 192 Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover
Adventures With Books . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
' PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted for photographs to:
Casting Class for the Small Fry, United153ate; FonsESen'iee,Dpage 173‘; gurus! Park flit-vice,
page 7 ; ores! res-er“: istriet o oo onnty,‘ inois,
by Tod and Neal Su'alm . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _  page 186; Detroit News, page: 190, 191; Canadian National
Film Board, page 194; Florida Game and Fresh Water Commis-
sion, page: 196, 197; Day Photographers, St. Louis, Missouri,
“101.6 Camps for the Handicapped. page 199; United States Navy (official photographs), pages
by Howard A. Rusk, M. D. . . . . . . . . . 198
Arts and Crafts in Dav Camping . . . . . . . 200 "Unto 1" is the be-mifnl si‘en- “1°
' all of as and to the strangers within our
gates forever and foreser."—Howard
. o 1 9 'r , Braucher.
Recreatlon In LnCIe Sam 5 hav)’ Photograph by Houlin Studios San
by Wilton S. Clements, LCDR., USNR 201 “anim' “1“”;“i‘ ‘

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readerr’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Post thce in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Section 1103, Ac: of anber 3, 1917, authorized Liay 1, 1924.

Copyright 1949, by 11:: National Recreation Auoriarion, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FOR’IY-THREE, NUMBER FOUR PRICE 55 Cams :9 «a»

 

Recreation

JULY 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

Recreation and the Individual

APPINESS DEPENDS FIRST on what is inside the in-
“ dividual.

No amount of external things, of happy activity
around one, will produce happiness if the inside is
full of poison. Of course the things about, the joy
in comrades, the normal fine
activity can help greatly.

An important task, how-
ever, of the recreation leader
at the neighborhood center,
of the church recreation lead-
er, of the parent is to help
the child, the youth, the
young man, the young wom-
an develop inner resources
for living.

One person has a thousand
things going on inside all the time, a thousand
things waiting to be done-—books to be read, songs
to be sung, music to be played, birds to be seen,
stars to be looked up at. One person has no end of
things waiting for a moment of free time, waiting
to be tried out. Another person squats and becomes
a vegetable, or clumps along out-of-doors seeing
nothing, thinking nothing, feeling nothing—oblivi-
ous of the beauty all about, of the wealth of satis-
factions just waiting to be taken; Life is barren
because the switch is not turned within.

Let there be light and life and joy within, and
no more is there darkness, heaviness, dreariness,
futility. "‘

There must be, in modern times with modern
conditions, recreation in the park, recreation in the
school, recreation in the church, recreation in the

lULY 1949

 
  
 
  
 
   

We are happy to announce that
because Howard Braucher had
prepared several editorials in
advance, it will be possible to
continue their appearance in the
next few issues of RECREATION.

:.
l
I” a

neighborhood center, recreation in the home—but
all this is not enough; all this is partial failure un-
less there is also the spirit of recreation within the
individual.

And here is a major skill the recreation leader
needs to acquire—helping,
through all his program of
music and drama and art and
nature and sport, the indi-
vidual to establish abundant
living within himself, so that
the individual will not seem
dull to himself but will be a
good companion. Each man
must be helped to have the
makings of the good life, of
permanently satisfying life

 

right within himself.

There is need also of the quality of outgoingness.
There is never the same strength, joy, growth except
as there is this quality. The child or person who
stays all within himself misses more than half of life.

Nor music, nor drama, nor nature, nor sport
contains half its pleasure unless it is shared with
the right person—the right wife, the right comrades.

Our main job is the development of inner capac-
ity for enjoying and expressing music, drama, art;
creating the power to enjoy and to do in leisure. In
athletics inner capacity, as well as outer strength
and skill is needed. Once that capacity exists, few
hours are long; time never drags heavily; there are
always thousands of things waiting to be done, and
the whole world is enriched by that amount.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

173

 

Howard Brancher—as we knew him.

A special, memorial supplement of REC-
REATION, affectionately planned as a trib-
ute to Howard Brancher and his work, will
be mailed to_y0u within the next 'few weeks.

RECREATION

Public Recreation—A Community Must

Pertinent facts which should be helpful to
those promoting interest in new recreation
programs or planning to address groups
on the subject of 'community recreation.

.ILLIONS OF DOLLARS are being spent from tax
funds for recreation because the public now
recognizes that it is a fundamental human need.
Recreation is on the march. There is recreational
progress and growth at all levels of government——
federal, regional, state, county, district, city and
rural. People now realize that public recreation is
essential to the American way of life.
Three concepts, now recognized by all, are that:
I. Public recreation is a fundamental, as basic
as are public health, public education and public
welfare. '
2. Recreation is a' function of government, as
important as is sanitation or safety.
3. Recreation is a public service that must be
supported through taxes.

The YEAR BOOK of the National Recreation As- .

sociation shows a steady growth in the number of
communities that have established a municipal rec-
reation department with a year-round program, an
adequate budget and professional leadership. It is
estimated that there are now approximately 3,000
American communities, large and small, that con-
duct such a program. Countless others have sum-
mer playgrounds and winter indoor centers. .The
use of schools is increasing, for they have become
community plants for recreation.

Programs are becoming better and broader in
scope. A good program meets the following cri-
teria:

I. It is year-round, operating not just for sum-
mer or winter, but for the four seasons.

2. I t is for everyone, all groups and all ages——
children, youth, young people, adults and elderly.

3. I t includes everything that interests people in

Mr. Rogers, recently retired from the National Recrea-
tion Association, gave many years to outstanding work
in recreation jielci. (See RECREATION, May 1949.)

JULY 1949

James E. Rogers

their leisure time—not only physical recreation
through sports and athletics, but art, handcraft,
music, drama, nature lore, social recreation, camp-
ing, water recreation and so on.

4. It operates everywhere, using all the commu-
nity areas and facilities. It mobilizes and utilizes
all .community resourcesmplaygrounds, parks,
schools, churches, homes, industries.

Progress in these four essentials is being made
throughout the country.

In the fields of organization and administration
for public recreation there is steady improvement:

1. Recreation boards or commissions are being
created rapidly. It is accepted that recreation is a
public service that is an entity, has an identity of
its own and must be a unit of government on its
own right.

2. Adequate areas and facilities are being estab-
lished; national standards are being recognized by
public authorities; communities are doing long-
range planning.

3. Ample budgets are becoming slowly but grad-
ually the rule. National standards have been ac-
cepted in many places.

4. Trained, experienced and competent leader-
ship is now a necessity for the operation of a suc-
cessful program. Civil service projects more and
more are using the national standards. Public offi-
cials are demanding professionally prepared recre-
ation leaders. '

The recognition that recreation is a profession
with a philosophy, a psychology, a program and a
methodology of its own is soon to be realized
everywhere. Further recognition will come when
the people further realize its significant contribu-
tion to the American way of life, and when recrea-
tion leaders produce the programs of services that
will merit increased budgets.

We must perfect our organization and adminis-

175

tration techniques. \Ve must provide adequate fa-
cilities; we must justify ample budgets and we
must upgrade our professional leadership stand-
ards. we must improve our public relations and
c00perate with all groups in the development of an
effective community recreation program that serves
all the people, young and old, through the year.
People must see that recreation is a must for ade-
quate personal and community living. American
communities must be made good places in which
both to work and to live. Modern living makes
recreation a public imperative.

Play and the Child

Play, to the child, is the gaining of life; recrea—
tion, to the adult, is the renewal of life. It is
through play that children prepare themselves for
life. Play is nature’s great educator and modern
educational methods were largely founded on Rous-
seau, Froebel, Pesstalozzi and Stanley Hall—all of
whom realized that play is a powerful drive for
good if properly directed, and for bad if perverted.
Through progressive programs of games, sports
and spare—time activities of all kinds, the child
gains strength, courage, coordination, health, char-
acter and habits of ethical doing and thinking.

 

As a child plays, so he becomes. As healthy
play makes for health, character and good citizen—
ship, so wrong kind of playing leads to mischief,
delinquency, ill health and vice. The adage, “The
boy without a playground is father of the man
without a job,” means that uncontrolled street play
equals shiftless play, which equals shiftless habits
—hence a shiftless character ending in a shiftless
man. Rather playgrounds than courts or jails.
“God gave the child the instinct to play, man must
provide the playground.”

Self Experience for Young People

“\Vholesome amusement alone will stiiie the lust
of vice,” wisely said Jane Addams. Our young
people, especially those who work, must have
healthful, active sports and games provided for
them. The machine age has made it impossible for
the worker to find self-expression in his work.

176

The community must provide opportunity through
social recreatiOn centers. Schools, churches and
recreation centers must be used the year-round to
full capacity.

Young folks full of energy, spirit and interest
must have an outlet in the right direction, or com-
munities, families, individuals will suffer the con-
sequences. The community that gives the boy the
commercialized pool room and the girl the dance
hall, to meet this natural craving and need for so-
cial recreation, often must endure the results—
crime, vice and disorders. The community is re-
sponsible because, unfortunately, the average town
too frequently makes it difhcult for young pe0ple
to do right and easy to do wrong, whereas the re-
verse should be true. Again it is nature asserting
itself through its natural outlets.

\Vholesome provision must be made for young
men and women to meet in social gatherings and
to have opportunities for vigorous, active, health—
ful outdoor and indoor activities of all kinds.
Youth is full of life, and the young man and young
woman are interested in each other. Unfortunately,
commercialized amusements seem to occupy their
precious spare hours, largely because the average
community makes no provision for them. As Ell-
bert Hubbard says, “God made the country; man,
the city; and the devil, the small town.” Just as
children must play by the dictation of nature’s wise
commands, so youth demands, as a balanced ration
of sane living, active sports and interests to keep
them healthy and occupied during the age of sex
interest.

The Adult and the Art of Living

“\Ve do nbt stop playing because we are old;
we grow old because we stop playing,” as Joseph
Lee used to say. Thus, clean recreation is a
necessary part of the art of living for the adult.
Under modern living conditions it is more and
more necessary that adults participate in active
games, sports and social recreation. It is part of
the balanced ration of life. Nature ordains it if we
are to live happily, actively and well. Much of the
breakage and wreckage of life comes from the
abuse and misuse of the spare time or play time.
Recreation can be either I'VREC-reation or RE—
creation.

The test of a nation’s civilization is determined
by how people use their leisure time, not their
hours of labor. Education for leisure today be-
comes as important as education for labor. Avoca-
tional education is as necessary as vocational edu-
cation. In this age of speed, stress and strain, peo-
ple must have interesting hobbies and absorbing

RECREATION

pastimes. The new day of twenty—four hours can
be roughly divided into three parts—eight hours
of work, eight of sleep, and eight of free time. This
is true when we remember that night has been
turned into day by electric light. The automatic
machine has taken some of the fatigue from eight
hours of work. The “modern efficiency expert”
has Speeded production, however, so we work
under strenuous tension. "

   

YOUR MOVE

Self-expression can no longer be found in work
as in the old crafts and guilds, but must be found
outside of work in the community during free
hours. The old shoemaker was laborer, artisan
and artist; he designed, planned and made the
complete boot and had the satisfaction of creation
and of the completion of a project. The average
factory worker is defeated by the assembly line and
the machine so he seeks fulfillment not in his work,
but in his community. Today, labor must have a
program for the wise use of its leisure.

America Needs Leadership

The greatest. need in.America today is for lead-
ership in the proper use of leisure time. Free time
is time won from labor for the development of
liner living. But the wrong use of this opportunity
may mean worry, nervous disorders and social ills.
Our children must have a normal play life if they
are to grow to be normal men and women. Young
people must be given places Where they can meet
and participate in healthy leisure-time pursuits.
Older folks must continue their recreational inter-
ests if they are to keep young and fit.

We must learn to use our free time profitably
as a re—creational process. Trained leaders must
introduce us to new pursuits, new “carry-over”
activities which can become a part of our daily liv-
ing. Young and old alike must play, for it is the
law of life and well-being.

Main Objective

Community provision of opportunities for year-
round recreation for all the people means adequate
facilities; a responsible governmental board or

JULY 1949

committee; an ample budget; qualified trained
year-round leadership. Public provision for a mu-
nicipal recreation department should include the
mobilization of all possible indoor and outdoor rec-
reation facilities. A community-wide recreation
program c00perates with all public and private
agencies for a maximum all-out effort.

An effective public recreation department, in ad-
dition to administering its own play areas and
centers, also serves all groups—schools, churches,
industries, boys’ and girls’ clubs, and all organiza—
tions. It plans and promotes activities in broad,
balanced programs—games, spOrts, arts, crafts,
music, drama, social recreation, nature lore, pic-
nics, hobbies—and in all the vast range of human
recreation interests. It cooperates in the celebra—
tion of community holidays and events. In brief,
a recreation department acts as a community clear-
ing house and service center for the organization
of opportunities for the full-time use of the leisure
life of all the people.

Ten types of recreation'activities which every-
one should have a chance to enjoy are those offer-
ing Opportunities for:

I. The developing of life-long hobbies and .i,n‘-‘,
terests.  i

2. The cultivation of the habit and the pleasure
of reading good books. i

3. The pursuit of the joys of outdoor living——
through camping, hiking, gardening, nature lore,
and so on. "

4. Exposure to rhythm in all its forms—music,
dancing, singing, poetry.

5. The development of an appreciation of the
arts.

6. The development of skills that give satisfac-
tion—not only in sports but in crafts.

7. The pleasures of social recreation.

8. The enjoyment of sports that promote sports-
manship.

9. The pleasures that come through water rec-
reation.

IO. The acquiring of the habit of rest, relaxation
and meditation.

The purpose of this article is primarily to pre—
sent the basic concept that recreation is an essen-
tial human need for an efficient and abundant life
and that the public provision for community recre-
ation is a fundamental necessity of government;
that, to the individual, recreation is an ingredient
in a balanced ration of living and, to the cOmmu-
nity, public recreation is a service as fundamental
as public works or public safety.

177

 

7 W Me meaty

aftMWWmmea/m

178 RECREATION

AN WE GIVE to the minds of children memo-
C ries so dear that they will unconsciously
cherish them? \Vill our efforts tuck away these
little events that will return, like the. flash of
northern lights, to illumine the far-away horizon
of grown-up days? We may never be able to
measure them as one measures such material
things as profits and sales and crops. Perhaps,
though, we’ll find that we have created the very
cornerstone of character, and the achievement of
living and enjoying life. '

Someone gave them to me. These long ago
touches of beauty come bubbling to my mind—the
understanding eyes of some adult; the lingering
fragrance ~of ripening apples when the sun lay
warm by the orchard swing. Freedom still means
the trembling feel of the small wild rabbit that
lied from the buckwheat cradle and then was
caught in the new mown field. Meditation is now
a synonym for the serenity of twilight that came
down from the hills, a touch of dew, or the flush
of dawn. Adventure has become a galloping horse
with a swish of rain soft against
my face: Friendship is a symbol
of a companion who walks silently
and shares the stars. Out of my
treasure cheSt they come to me,
these ever—guiding trail signs that
were blazed in the quietness of a
country road.

So I went forth to camp, and
here is a picture of my house in
the woods: Cecil lights a candle in
the house of “Wendy.” Bobby is
sewing in the big armchair. Mo-
nique and Ruthie pillow their
heads on the little black scottie;
lirelight makes jet and gold of
their hair. Arline reads softly to
Anita. Elaine walks a puppet
across the floor. Shirley and the

A C0unselor’s Quest*

Alice Gibson Heap

sunset linger on the sleeping porch; the nurse and
the breeze stand at the old Dutch door. There are
suppressed giggles from eight little beds until a
bugle challenges and the night is still.

Once my tent had a hearthstone with the skin
of a great Sprawling bear sleeping quietly upon
the dirt packed floor. The fagots carried down
from the mountain perhaps have kindled a few
campfires in the valleys. The smoke drifts back
as I speculate.

Our wild and beautiful bills have upon them
the shadow of civilization. Today we have neither
pioneers nor new lands, but we have abundant
leisure for strange adventures of the soul. So we
build our tinder fires, and the forces of the mind
fan them into a blaze of color. They are like a
blue crane flying toward a patch of sunset on a
distant mountain. Only'the flutter of his wings
separates the colors spreading so rapidly across
the sky. Some thoughts, like the fern, are not en-

Amt/aor 2': Mile grade teacher, More: School, Knoxville.

 

We build a campfire. How small is the world, how vast is the dark—

*Condensed from The National Elementary Principal.

JULY 1949

179

dowed with blossoms; there is no wafting fra-
grance to draw pe0ple into the shady dell. Yet
the fern has found its place in gardens and gives
your bouquet its decorative touch. Often thoughts
have the strength of a rock that the fire does not
burn nor the waters wash away in the flood. The
usefulness of these rocks is manifold: they may
build a road or, in a stone mason’s hands, they
may form a chimney for an open fire, along with
a friendship that the fire’s warmth brings forth.

\Vhen the first dark of evening becomes a part
of the meadow, like the soft folds of a blanket
upon the shoulders of a tired person, we ponder
on the values of camp.

The majority of our counselors are either from
the ranks of teachers on vacation or from college
students learning the trade. The techniques of
both organized and primitive camping. have been
well—developed from the standpoint of activity and
of safety. The crying need is for fathers and moth-
ers to share the outdoor world with the children.
Parents need to be drawn into training courses
for these adventures. Family groups are ideal for
covered wagon trips. Brothers and sisters should
study together the magic of a tide pool. In all
seasons of the year, children should tread the self
same woodland trail, to build into their vision all
the mysterious cycle of growing things, so that
no day is ever quite the same. Such a trail is the
most vivid nature book that any child may read.

Perhaps it would be wise to put the shoulder
to the wheel by sponsoring camps of the already
established character-building agencies. Stress
the importance of camping to parents. Encourage
children to save for camp registration. Invite a
country school to hold an all-day assembly in a
large city school. Plan a day camp rally for urban
youngsters on the spacious grounds of some rural
school.

How big is our yard! How small is the world!
“7e build a campfire on the concrete walk in a
huge coal shovel that lost its handle in useful
work. A homemade tent slung on a rope between
shade trees sets the stage of events for those who
eat popcorn on the front steps. How near are our
homes! How distant seem the streets! Ten-year-
old hikers arrive with pillowcase duffels and blan-
ket rolls to camp for the night in a backyard
cabin. How cozy is our lantern! How vast is the
dark! Within the circle of light children are ar-
ranging homemade sleeping bags and drawing
straws for the uppers of the double deck bunks.
There’s a fire in a laundry stove, and a drum-like
oven inserted in the pipe. After frying hamburg—
ers and toasting buns we pull up our nail keg

180

stools, painted with nautical deSIgns, and drink
cocoa from bright tin cans. Stars shine. There

are always new shapes of clouds, whether our
trail leads to the far-off mountains or to someone’s
small back yard. '

Camping is a challenge, but reading is still a
number one national problem. Colored movies
bring the out-of—doors into natural science classes.
Instead of primitive camping we may need a long
hike in blackboard sums, or the reading of alpha-

betical signs instead of those made of bent twigs
or piled up rocks.

In spite of the apparent lack of proficiency in
the three R’s, our children should acquire the
skills of swimming and boating, whether it be in
concrete pools or in natural settings. Camping,
like the subjects in school, is learned gradually
and in simple progressive steps. Boys and girls
need to learn lessons by starting a fire from wet
wood in a driving rain, by eating a meal of their.
own cooking, by identifying a bird call, and by
listening to the wind in the pines. They need the
friendship and security of counselors who work
with small groups. Two public school class rolls
are usually bigger than the average organized
camp. The staff of a small camp will usually out-
strip that of a large school. We can’t have it
otherwise unless we have military regimes or play
orphan asylum. Camp sites are expensive; their
upkeep is greater. They should be used all year.
A large number of teachers have never seen their
children in informal situations.

\Ve can’t ignore the definite need of children
for the educational thrill of camping. The PTA
can train parents. The public schools can Spon—
sor heavily what we already have in established
camps. A few public schools are experimenting

with their own camps. They may draft a pattern
for the future.

W hat is the future? A curve in the road, pitch-
ing a tent, and a shifting of the load. What is
happiness? A friend on the trail, climbing a
mountain, or hoisting a sail. What is achieve-

ment? Contentment of miind,“creating something
from whatever we find.

 

“The summer camp is an American institution.
It is a constructive force at work with children.
Most camps have plenty of sunshine, forests and
fields. Some camps direct their energies toward
satisfying activities and explanatory thinking . . .
cultivate leisure-time talents. Any investment for
your child is worthy of critical analysis and intel—
ligent judgment.”-—l/Villiam G. V inal.

RECREATION

JOSEPH LEE DAY—July 28, 1949

JULY 1949

Joseph Lee’s 0wn List
of Play Facilities

JOSEPH LEE LOVED to write of the days when he was
a boy and a member of a group of young people
known as “the crowd.” First there were a half-dozen

boys who always played together. Later girls were
added. Out of his vivid memories of a happy child—

hood, he himself made up the following list of play

facilities so vigorously enjoyed by the crowd.
One ocean fitted with islands, fish, boats, reefs, eel grass and other haz-
ards: Several beaches, one of them adapted to prisoners’ base.
A cow pasture and other play fields. -
Winter and summer woods, climbing—trees (one fitted with ropes). ..
A marsh with a brook containing trout, navigable at high tide, good for
jumping with or without a leaping pole and excellent for making dams.
Ponds to skate on, also a flooded marsh running far in among the trees.
The stars, moon and sunsets appurtenant to these.
Coasts, both cross country and in streets duly furnished with pungs,

sleighs and a considerable number of funerals to turn out for.
One theatre.

. Pianos and violins.

Several barns with horses, cows, pigs and the smells appropriate thereto.

Add uncles who acted plays, sketched, read Shakespeare and other
people aloud, sang, and did other interesting stunts.

And one remarkable and sporting grandmother.

 

He said, “My play experience was a very fortunate and happy one. To us, in Brookline,
in those days, skating and coasting were pursued with great joy, some danger, and religious
fervor, especially coasting on the crust or skating on the flooded marshes in the woods by
moonlight. In the summer, at Beverly Farms, there were cat—boat trips, teanics’ on Misery
and the other islands, and infinite games of Hy-spi, Robbers an'd Policemen or Prisoners’
Base in the woods or on the beach. _

“I was captain of two almost uniformly unsuccessful football teams in those happy early
days of Rugby, when the game was controlled by the players, not the coach.”

Joseph Lee was interested in play for everyone, for adults as well as for children. We all
are familiar with his often repeated statements, “We do not cease playing because we are old;
we grow old because we cease playing”; “The age to learn to dance is whatever age you hap—
pen to be”; and so on. Let us not forget, too, that, included in his tremendous contributions
to the play life of our country, his contribution to the morale and well-being of the armed
forces, through the War Camp Community Service during the first World War, was such that
he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal.

It is to be hoped, therefore, that programs for all observances of Joseph Lee Day—or Joseph
Lee Week, as the case may be—will include as many adults as possible, not only as spectators
but as participants. ‘

“What we must aim at is to liberate the community’s urge to play,” he said, “so that each
individual finds satisfaction for his needs of hunting, fighting, teamwork, creation, and under-
standing. VVork—economic independence—is one condition of an individual’s self—respect and

happiness, but only half of it; the man who has only work and no play has only half of him
alive.”

181

3’

"The fever is contagious . . .

Cooperation is the Wotohword

COOPERATION IS ONE of the most over-worked

words in the language, but there is no other

word to describe the phenomenal success of the
Quineboquin Camping Club. The
club, with which many of you have
become familiar through the pages
of RECREATION, was started in
1945 as a demonstration to prove
that unused natural recreation re-
sources could be utilized to provide
adventure for city-pent adolescents.

Joseph Lee, now Boston Park
Commissioner, showed the way
several years earlier by organizing
his wonderful sailing program in
the basin of the lovely Charles
River. Our own project features camping via
canoe on its upper reaches. Called Quineboquin
by the early Algonquins, which means the river
that bends on itself, this magnificent stream winds
its way through incredibly beautiful woodlands for
over one hundred miles.

The boys of Quineboquin Club go on long camp-
ing trips, which take a week or more, and on short
ones which require but a week-end. In either case,
they sleep in the deep woods under the pines,
where they enjoy the never-to-be forgotten thrill
and companionship of a campfire. Our equipment
has grown from two canoes and an abandoned boat
house to a fleet of over thirty canoes, and six row-

boats.
I should like to point out here that utilization of

local resources in any recreation program is nec-
essarily dependent upon the good will and coopera-
tion of local folks. Where the welfare of local
young people is involved, this is especially easy to
obtain, provided you are equipped with plenty of
enthusiasm and belief in your project. Among
those whom you approach many, who are not par-
ents themselves, can remember the days of their

182

Shows how one pri-
vate citizen can suc-
cessfully call upon
the cooperation of a

community to estab-
lish a program of ad-
venture and recreation
for local young folks.

 

\

Albert West

own youth. Of course, publicity, personal contacts,
interpretation and the like are very necessary.

Our principal support comes from the Michael
Francis Cahill F und,.given to the
City of Boston by one of many gen-
erous donors for “new and special
recreation.” In the beginning we
faced the fact that if we were to
survive we would have to tap
sources of support and help here-
tofore untouched.

We started with the Boston Po-
lice Department, persuading the
commissioner to house the police
patrol boat at our boat house in
West Roxbury. Police Captain
James F. O’Neil, who “has not forgotten what it
feels like to be small,” assigned Cape Cod born
Otis H. Nickerson and George V. Scanlon, of
South Boston, to this duty. It is hard to imagine
two more diverse personalities—yet they work to-
gether as an amazing team. It is amusing to watch
the boys vacillate in their affection for these men
and marvelous, indeed, to see the respect in which
they hold them. They have made a profound con-
tribution to the lives and futures of these boys,
and create a ton of good will for the police depart—
ment, in addition to doing a good day’s work.

The Court House Commissioners were ap-
proached next, and'they were convinced that the
taxpayers would prefer them to “loan” unused
furniture to a project such as ours rather than to
consign it to dry rot by non-use. Enormous tables,
which in years past were used by Massachusetts
juries, and long, slender counsel tables before
which lawyers of another era argued, soon graced
our club house—although somewhat altered in ap-
pearance. One of our boys, an apprentice linoleum

 

Mr. Wert, enterprirz'rzg board of recreation member,
be: imtz'gated many welfare project: for lair city.

RECREATION

layer, tore out the somber, black cloth inset in the
tables and substituted a gay- star pattern of lino-
leum in bright red and blue. The table edges were
painted fire engine red and the legs were enamelled
a bright blue. They have to be seen to be really
appreciated.

And so, through many city departments. we
went “borrowing” unused material to be put to
good use for and by Boston boys. When we had
a problem of filling in a large'area near the river
front, the street cleaning section of the Public
\Vorks Department was glad to dump selected
sweepings from an area where small stones and
sand abounded. Thus we solved the dual problem
of obtaining suitable. fill and transportation for it.

Of all city departments, the fire
department has been our best
friend. Chief Walter Glynn has
taken a personal interest in the
development of the project, and in

Center: Typical member Richard
Spillane, 15, placed first in Ameri-
can Canoe Association regatta. Pho-
tographs taken, printed by the boys.

seeing the boys grow in stature and in wisdom.

It wasn’t long before the Roslindale-West Rox-
bury Kiwanis Club sought ways in which they
could help—and help they did. Individual mem-
bers came into the club to “look around” and, find-
ing a weakness, set about correcting it. For exam-
ple, Frank A. East came in one day and found us
eating from paper plates. In almost no time at all
we received basketfuls of sample hotel china, which
he got somehow from a large local dealer. Hun-
dreds of pieces included dinner plates, small
plates, bowls, cups and saucers—and not one of

lULY 1949 a ;‘

them alike. What a riot of color now greets any-
one having a large meal at Quineboquin!
The Kiwanis Club gave us an official Olympic

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

.... A .

The club boat house. Lower left:
George Brown couldn’t swim at first.
Less than week later, with aid of
Red Cross, he qualified as a member.

diving board last summer, which
was quite an innovation for local
recreation. The Red Cross swim--
ming man with whom we work
closely describes it as the best to
be found in Greater Boston although, actually, few
are to be found at all.

Last year the N eedham Canoe Club, a champion
canoe racing organization in its day, decided that
it would be better to allow our boys to use their
fleet of costly racing shells than to leave them idle.
Since it is an art in itself to stay in one of these
contraptions, apart from making it go, we were
stumped as to how to train the boys properly, but
not for long. Fred Richenburg, a noted paddler,

volunteered long hours of coaching to our raw but

eager beavers. This is a splendid example of
American sportsmanship at its best, since he is
Commodore of the Samoset Canoe Club, against
whom our boys later raced. As a matter of fact,
one of our fifteen-year-olds upset some of Samo-
set’s veterans and won an important race. Since
that time this activity has become very popular
with many of the group.

Robert D. Price, Boston lawyer and one of our
directors, is a well-known white water canoeist
who has intrigued many of our more experienced
boys by his thrilling article in Appalachia about

183

       
 

the Appalachian Mountain Club’s white water ex-
ploits. He has promised some of them a side trip
to a few of the novice runs sponsored by the Ap-
palachian Mountain Club. ‘

One of the active spare time activities of Patrol-
man Otis Nickerson is the operation of the camera
club, which maintains a first class photographic
dark room in the boat house. Here the week—end
“take” is brought to light with the finest equip-
ment obtainable. Camera fans among our friends
were eager to help in this department.

This cooperation is not all on one side, however,

.- for we make what we have created available to

many without charge. The Red Cross borrows our
fleet each spring to conduct a small water craft
school for future camp counsellors. Several nearby
cities and towns use our premises for a course of
training for their recreation personnel. The Mary-
knoll Sisters bring large groups of Chinese boys
to the carnp for outings; and many of the settle-
ment houses send similar groups, supplying their
own leadership. Boy Scout troops from scattered
sections of the city do likewise.

The Citizenship Training Department of the
Boston Juvenile Court, under the leadership of
Louis Maglio, has used our facilities for several
summers. This group always rounds out the sea-

son with a big wiener roast, which assumes the .

importance of a state dinner to the many under-
privileged youngsters participating. Able, wise
Judge John J. Connelly has been quick to see the
wisdom of providing adventure in recreation for
those boys who come before him because of a tem-
porary brush with the law.

Our own membership is made up of boys four-
teen years old and upwards, who can swim. Annual
dues are four dollars a year, and if a boy cannot
afford this, arrangements can be made to work out
the amount. This system, unfortunately, developed
a kind of aristocracy among the boys for a time.
However, it was doomed when I overheard one
lad tell another that he didn’t have to do any work
to keep the boat house intact because he had paid
his dues! This season, the dues will be five dol-
lars, three dollars of which may be paid in cash,
but two dollars of which nmst be paid by work.

Occasionally a boy takes advantage, as happened
last year, for example, when two of our members
agreed to paint the recreation room floor if we
would check off their dues as paid. It was a deal.
They pyramided the pieces of furniture on top of
each other and took another look at the floor. Ap-
parently it was considerably larger than they had
supposed. Then they did what too many young
fellows are doing these days-——they walked out on

184

their promise. I bit my lip and had the already
overworked staff paint the floor. When the boys
thought the heat was off, they slinked back, but
not for long. They were on the carpet almost as
soon as they had crossed the threshold.

2

“Jimmy,’ said I to one of them, “you boys are
Irish, aren’t you ?” “Yes,” he replied. “Interest-
ing,” I observed, “for I was just reading from the
Senchus Mor, which is the ancient Irish legal sys-
tem. In it I found a very significant legal maxim,
Jimmy. ‘There are three times when the world
dies: in times of famine; in times of drought; and
when verbal contracts fail.’ That was the funda-
mental law of Ireland even before St. Patrick, and
he reestablished it in his Cain Patrick. The Irish
felt that if your word was no good, you were no
good?’

“The world of Quineboquin is dead for you,”
said I, opening the door for their shame—faced exit.

A couple of weeks later, a younger brother came
in to negotiate a peace. I let them wait another
week or so, and then consented to see them. Could
they pay what was owed on their dues? Perhaps
it could be arranged. Whatever else Jimmy’s ac-
complishments are, arithmetic isn’t one of them,
judging by his laborious efforts to arrive at the
amount due; and the assistance of his companion
in misery hindered rather than helped. At long
last they arrived at a satisfactory figure, and they
promptly tendered it. I thanked them and said,
“Fine, now please pay me six per cent interest.”
It is only_by the intercession of Divine Providence,
I am sure, that Jimmy still isn’t figuring. I feel
that these boys learned more by this experience
than by all the lectures I could have. delivered, or
by any other punishment I could have meted out.

The path is a little easier now, since the spirit
of cooperation has become a habit; but, with
growth, there is always more responsibility. We
have incorporated as a charitable corporation
under Massachusetts law and we have some dis-
tinguished lawyers, including the president of the
Boston Bar Association, on our board of directors.

In the future, it is our desire to strengthen the
winter program. River skating, so popular when
the late Joseph Lee, America’s pioneer of recrea-
tion, and James J. Storrow would spend Sunday
afternoons skating twenty or more miles up the
Charles, is not being done these days. This is
partly because the river never seems to freeze long
enough, and partly because most youngsters use
whatever skating time they have to play hockey.
Last year Commissioner Lee (son of the late Jo-

seph Lee) brought two or three groups on such a
trip, and they were thrilled and delighted. We

RECREATION

hope to develop more interest in this wonderful
and healthy activity.

Another wintertime possibility is crafts work,
but we do not want to duplicate the work of any
other agency. A father of one of our boys is in-
terested in gold tooling on leather. This is fast
becoming a lost art, and I was fascinated to find
that the only place in the United States where im—
plements for this work are made is within walking
distance of my oflice. We tried out some of the
simpler work on a group of the more alert boys,

Puppets in 0pera

66 ID YOU HEAR that bugle? Here come the

D soldiers marching down the street. How
proudly they carry themselves—and look, here are
all the children running after them.

“We are in a little Spanish town where all the
Spanish ladies are called Senoritas. They are as
beautiful as the land of Spain itself.”

Thus the children’s version of the opera “Car—
men” unfolds on records (Classic Record Com-
pany). Last year, in the Children’s Puppet Thea-
tre in Martinsville, Virginia, puppets were used
to act out the entire play. Hundreds of children
saw and loved it—especially when Escamillo killed
the bull and promptly put his foot upon the animal,
with hands waving on high.

With the rich, colorful and dramatic music in
“Carmen,” the opera was an immediate favorite
with the twelve-to-fourteen-year-old youngsters in
the puppet clubs. This was their first experiment
with puppets—and quite a revelation to the recrea-
tion leaders and parents. The children became
attached to these doll-like, make-believe creatures
—and, frequently, we heard ardent backstage con-
versations between the operator and the puppet
character.

Definite carry-over values were noted. One of
the puppeteers was a piano student who promptly
learned the important scores in the opera. On one
occasion, an excited youngster came up to exclaim,
“Last night, when I was listening to the radio, I
learned that ‘Carmen’ was being played in New
Orleans, but the costumes didn’t arrive. So the
singers had to appear in their evening clothes.”
(This did happen in New Orleans last winter.)

Community Theatre, a local amateur theatrical
group, which was launched by the City Recreation
Department, is sponsor of the puppet groups. This
organization has built a portable stage, and fur-

Mz'r: Wood i: director of recreation in Martimoille.

JULY 1949 

and the response was so encouraging that I called
to see the head of this unusual firm. I wasn’t sur-
prised to find him enthusiastic about my plan to
start a gold tooling program. It is his kind __of
enterprise that has madeiAmerica great; and;‘-“of
course, he is interested in American youth. He
donated enough equipment for us almost to ‘open
a business; and the work being turned out by our
boys is the best public relations material that one

could possibly have. And so it goes, all adding up
to the one word—COOPERATION! '

Ellen E. Wood

 

nishes material and supplies, while the department
provides the leadership. Not only are the plays
enjoyed by the forty or fifty youngsters active in .
the puppet clubs, but they are offered to every
youngster in town.

Puppet plays, with animals taking on,the char-
acteristics of humans, are very popular with the
children. “De Courtin’ Couple” by Miss Weaver
Dallas is a good example of Uncle Remus stories
which are very easily adapted to puppets. Chil-
dren also like to hear and see such traditional
stories as “Red Riding Hood,” “Cinderella,” and
others, over and over.

The puppets made by the boys and girls are
crude when adults look upon them, but to the
highly imaginative mind of a child they are won-
derfully “real people” with whom they talk and
live.

“What’s the use of all this?” said one citizen,
not too convinced of the value of public recrea-
tion anyway. Well, suppose we compare a puppet
play, which the youngsters have prepared with
their own hands and minds, with the average comic
book—full of blood and thunder. Which is better
to nourish'the imagination—an active part in liv-
ing the traditional stories of childhood, or a pas-
sive one in the unreal world of comic books?

185

756 066 Swimmévz' 2/056

RECREATION

 

“ N0 Swimming”
Lewis G. Scoggin

N A RECENT visit, just this side of Florida, I stopped in a small community to fill the gaso-
line tank of my car. While waiting for the station attendant to do the job, I noticed a very
large pond about a hundred yards back of the filling station. Several small boys were bathing in
the dirty, slimy water, and I asked the attendant the name of the pond.
“We used to call it the ‘Gator Hole’,” he replied, “but that was before we got a Chamber of
Commerce here. Its oflicial name now is St. Francis Lake.” ,

“Any fish in there?” I asked casually.

“Nope! Not any more!” he said. “Most of the physicians in this town got their start from
that ole ‘Gator Hole,’ since folks started using it as a garbage dump and the end of an under-
ground drain. All the fish died long ago. Two or three alligators were found dead last year.
But some of the youngsters, who don’t know about such things, still slip off when their parents
aren’t looking and go swimming there.”

One day several children in this community were stricken with inflammation of the stomach

and intestines. Only highly competent medical work prevented any fatalities. It was ascertained
that these children had slipped off and gone swimming in St. Francis Lake.

This is an extremely mild example of what’s going on in our lakes, rivers and small streams
in many parts of the United States. We are fools to poison the waters, because we have no more
lands and no more waters to waste. Nonetheless, we continue to waste them. We continue to use
them as dumps for everything but the kitchen stove, taking it too much for granted that the
waters are still safe for our children, that the fish will get along somehow.

This is America! Our scientists, engineers and industrialists have proved that garbage and
sewage can be’ converted into a new source of municipal revenue in the production of excellent
fertilizer; but we continue to think that America’s resources are unlimited.

It is time that we, as individuals and groups, do our part to aid nature in restoring her balance
wherever it has been upset. Health authorities, wildlife biologists, scientists, engineers, business
men, industrialists, women’s clubs, chambers of commerce, civic groups and patriotic organiza-
tions must become aroused and erect a “STOP signal” against our tendency to abuse our natural
resources. I

Again in Florida, a short time ago, I was driving along a waterway when, suddenly, I noticed
the pathetic remnants of what had been, once upon a time, a beautiful bathing beach. Red danger
signals had been posted for the public: “NO SWIMMING ALLOWED. POLLUTED WATER.”

One of the best forms of recreation—bathing and swimming, enjoying the sunshine—had
been terminated in five words of warning. Gone were the fish that had lived in those inland
waters. The “let’s go swimming” gang came no more.

As I passed the sign and continued along the highway, I noticed that there were no more
warning signals, although the polluted water flowed along its natural course for miles. What
would have happened if our son, or your son, had gone off on a Saturday afternoon with the
boys for a swim in the country, and had come to this polluted waterway, far from the warning?

In emergencies, it is fine that we can fall back upon modern medicine, the telephone, the speedy
automobile for help; but why can’t we also turn our genius toward preventative, methods that
will protect the health of our citizens? Should we not use our skills to make the' out-of-doors
safe for the healthful, outdoor recreation which can be so vital a help in relieving the tensions
and strains of high-strung working and living conditions today?

Mr. Scoggin 2': director of the Florida. Park Service.

IULY 1949 ' 187

 

Play in the water promotes confi-
dence, gives opportunity to try new
skills. Above, in Los Angeles pool.

Water Games for Summer Program

Mary Buice

GAMES 0F Low organization can form a very
valuable part of the summer swimming pro-
gram, especially for children and youths. Games
are an effective means of helping the learner over-
come his fear of the water and adjust to it in a
manner that is psychologically sound. They give
the individual an Opportunity to become accus-
tomed to the water almost without realizing it, to
gain confidence and to compare his skill with that
of his fellows in situations that contain elements of
competition.

At the close of an instruction period, many lead-
ers use games which employ the skill just learned.
Simple games also are adaptable for use in inter-
playground meets for the novice swimmer, who is
not skilled enough to participate in competition of
a more “official” type. \Vater games, of course,
should be carefully supervised at all times, and
chosen according to classifications of age, skill and
self-confidence.

Those which follow have been selected from a
group found to be useful in school, camp and rec-
reation situations. Most of them are adaptations
of traditional land games of low organization. For
your convenience in referring to them, they are
grouped according to the chief skill employed:
AdjuStment to \Vater and Buoyancy; Stroking;
Combination of Aquatic Skills.

Adjustment to Water and Buoyancy

Walking Race

Players: Any number of young children.

Area: Shallow water suitable for beginners, with
waist deep best.

Formation: Line of players, touching starting mark
such as the edge of-pool or dock.

188

Procedure: On signal, players walk to other
side of pool or to finish line—maintaining balance.
Player who reaches the finish line first, having kept
balance throughout the course, wins.

Hunting

Players: Twelve to fourteen beginners.

Area: Waist or chest deep water.

Equipment: A number of articles which will sink in
water, such as rubber heels and pucks, and a stOp
watch.

Formation: Parallel lines on opposite sides of pool,
facing center. Objects are placed in the area equi-
distant between teams.

Procedure: When the leader gives a signal, a
player from each team goes to the center and
searches for articles for one minute. The player
who finds the greatest number of articles in this
time scores a point for his team. When each
player has had a turn, the team scoring the great—
est number of points is declared winner.

Over-Under Relay

Players: Children and youths, with not more than
eight or ten per team.

Area: Shallow water, waist or chest deep.

Equipment: Water balls or other objects which may
be passed under the water between players’ legs—one
for each team.

Formation: File formation, players on each team
being an arm’s length apart.

Procedure: Give the leader of each team the ball.
On signal, the first player passes this over his head
to the player behind him in line. This one passes
it between his legs to the next player. Should the

_ ball be dropped as it goes down the line, the player

Mir: Baice 2': an instructor in the Department of
Pbyrical and Health Education, Univerrity of Texas.

RECREATION

in error recovers it and puts it in play again from
his position. The ball reaches the last player by
being passed over-under-over-under. Upon receiv-
ing it, the last player wades or swims with the'ball
to the head of the line and starts it down the line
again, always sending it over his head first. The
game is finished when the first player returns to
his original position and holds the ball over his
head. If several teams are playing, have the others

continue to determine second and third places.

Glider Contest

Players: Any number of children or youths.

Area: Water not over chest deep, where players can
push off from bottom or sides.

Equipment: Line marker, if there are no visible lines

on the bottom of pool.
Formation: Wave formation, each wave represent-

ing a team. Contestants must be touching the starting
mark with one hand when signal to begin is given.

Procedure: On signal, players push off in a face
fioat position with arms extended forward. At the
end of float, the player must recover a vertical po-
sition without Houndering. Those who glide past
the marker, and recover, score one point each for
their team. The team with the largest score after
three trials is the winner. The same game may be
played using the back glide.

Bombardment
Players: Six to twenty children who can control

direction of throw.
Area: Shallow water which permits players to stand.
Equipment: For each player three or four floating
objects which can be easily tossed, such as corks or

table tennis balls.
Formation: Divide playing area into two halves,

with one team in each half.
Procedure: Give each team half of the objects

to be tossed. On signal, the teams begin to toss
the objects, one per toss, into the opponents’ ter-
ritory. A team must also toss back the corks or
balls thrown into its area. At the end of three
minutes, the team having the fewest objects wins.

(From Ofiicial Aquatics Guide 1941-42, copy-
right 1941 by National Section on Women’s Ath-
letics of American Association for Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation. Published by A. S.
Barnes and Company.)

Stroking
Kick Contest

Players: Not more than twenty children, youths or
adults.

Area: Any desirable area deep enough for flutter
boards to be used.
Equipment: Flutter boards or a log.

Procedure: Teams or individuals take their po-
sitions on opposite sides of the board or log. When
the signal is given, both teams begin to kick, try-
ing to force one another back to a specified area.
The kind of leg action may be selected by the

JULY 1949

leader. One side may use the breast stroke kick
while the other uses the fiutter, or both teams may
use the same kind of kick. If the group is small,
the contest may be between individuals using fiut—

ter boards.

Shuttle Relay

Players: Any even number, with not more than
eight or ten per team suggested.

Area: Water waist deep or deeper, depending upon
the experience of the swimmers.

Equipment: A flutter board for each team.

Formation: Shuttle formation, about twenty to
thirty-five feet apart.

Procedure: The first swimmer on each team
takes the flutter board and, using leg action only,
crosses the area and gives the board to the first
player on his team on that side. This player goes
across in the same manner. When the game is fin—
ished, all the players who were on the left side of
the area should be on the right side. The winner
is the team which reverses its position first. Any
type of leg action may be used, or the kick may be
specified. Game may also be played by using arm

action only or, if desired, a special stroke.
Handicap Race

Players: Two or more children or youths of inter—
mediate or higher ability.

Area: One which will permit a race of twenty to
thirty-five feet.

Equipment: Articles for handicaps, with one item
for each team, such‘as weights, rocks, clothing, news-
paper, umbrella or Indian clubs.

Formation: File or shuttle.

Procedure: When signal is given, one player
from each team swims to the goal line and back.
using the handicap previously decided upon. (This
is described for file formation.) Each member of
the team repeats this performance and the winner
is the team completing the race first. Swimming
on one side, holding a weight with the top arm,
is a good handicap as it is related to a rescue stroke
in water safety. Holding an open umbrella with
one hand is a good stunt, and amusing.

Combination of Aquatic Skills
Long Base

Players: Children and youths, six to twelve per
team.

Area: Area approximately the size of a volleyball

_ court, or smaller if there are only six or eight players

per team. Place a towel or piece of cocoa—matting at
the center of one end of the pool for home plate. Mark
the long base on the side of the area some twenty to
twenty-five feet from home plate. This base should
be long enough to accommodate several players at a
time.

Equipment: An inflated rubber ball.
Procedure: Divide players into two teams and

place one in the field and one at hat. The team in
the field may take up any position in that area.
The batter stands at home plate, throws the ball

189

into the playing area, jumps or dives into the
water, and swims or wades to long base. He may
stop on long base or return to home plate. There
is no limit to the number of players who may 0c-
cupy long base. However, if all players are on
long base that team is automatically retired with-
out making a score. A score is made each time a
player goes to long base and back to home plate.

A player is out if he is tagged with the ball be-
tween bases; if a ball he throws while at bat is
caught by a fielder before it touches the water; if
he is hit by a ball thrown by a fielder between
bases; if an‘Opponent holds the ball on long base
before he reaches it. However, it is necessary to

tag each swimmer returning to home base in order
to put him out. A forced out may not be made at
home plate.

Fielders may advance the ball by swimming or
wading with it, or by passing it to a teammate. A
team is retired when each player has had a turn
at bat. The winner is the team which has the
largest score after both teams have had equal
turns at bat.

Almost any game of low organization may be
adapted to water use. Some other suggestions in-
clude dodge ball, volleyball, end ball, boundary ball,
prisoner ball, Dozen \Vays of Getting There,
Throw It and Run.

TENNIS TEACHER EXTRAllRDINAllY

Richard Dempewolff andCamerpn Day

n

There was only one tennis, .1"
court in town, and that was for Sissies.
Now they star]; them young

in Hamtramck, and turn out stars.

     

‘
I;

\
t

“a.
‘-'!P

H- -*r

Courageous Jean Hoxie achieved
what once seemed the impossible

190

a" ' .n

"t

.Loxc-LEGGED KID walked down the main street
A of Hamtramck, Michigan, ten years ago.
One hand clutched a tennis racket, the other was
balled .up in a white-knuckled fist. His chin jutted
and he stared straight ahead, ignoring the jeers of
youngsters lining the sidewalks. One broad-shoul-
dered youth made a contemptuous pass at the
racket. An instant later fists were flailing. Then
the young tennis player, without a backward glance
at his battered opponent, picked up his racket and
went on.

This was Hamtramck in 1939. A city com-
pletely encircled by its industrial neighbor, Detroit,
its two-square-mile area was crammed with some
50,000 people, many of them unskilled laborers.
Brawn was the standard measurement for success.
Rough-and-tumble football was about the only
sport that drew enthusiastic tryouts in the schools.
Tennis was strictly for weak sisters.

Today, thanks to a social experiment which had
sport as its core, Hamtramck is a veritable tennis
factory, turning out more topflight net men and
women than any comparable community anywhere.
Thirty Hamtramck men, and half as many women,
are ranking tournament players. In ten years they
have annexed thirty-eight nationally recognized
championships. Among the topnotchers is Ted
Jax, who became national indoor boys’ champion.

Condensed from American Law Term}; Magazine.

RECREATION

 

Thanks to Miss Hoxie, one court grew into this large
‘ tennis plant, where many courts are continually used.

Fred Kovaleski, the lad who had to fight his way
to the courts in 1939, became national public-parks
singles and doubles champion. In 1947 Kovaleski
ranked third in the Western Division and twenty-
first nationally. He also became the" number one
player of the crack. William and Mary College
team. "

Even more signicant than this mushrooming
growth of stars is the fact” that Hamtramck’s tennis
courts are helping to keep her youth out of the
law courts. In 1939, there were seventy-seven
arrests for juvenile delinquency; last year, there
were only fifteen. i

Much credit for this double—edged program goes
to a robust, determined Irish lady with a heart as
big as the Davis Cup and an uncanny Hair for
teaching tennis. She is Jean Hoxie—a physical
education teacher at Hamtrainck’s Pulaski School.
With the help of her husband, a chemistry teacher,
she has‘accomplished the job against staggering
odds.

One day in 1939, Mrs. Hoxie, then a ranking
player in the western Division, was discussing
Hamtramck’s juvenile delinquency problem with
Hal Shields, the Pulaski School’s athletic director.
Shields suggested offhandedly: “Why don’t you
build a tennis clinic here? The kids would love it.”

Jean snorted, pointing out that the “kids” prob—
ably would find it about as popular as picking
pansies. “I dare you to try it,” taunted Shields.

That did it. Jean set out to look over the situa—
tion, and what she found wasn’t good. Hamtramck
had only one tennis court——a rough asphalt affair
in a public park. But it would have to do. Equip-
ment? Neither the school nor the city would pro-
vide anything. So Jean Hoxie bought it herself.

Then she issued a call for tryouts. There was
no response. Undismayed, she went out scouting

JULY 1949

 

The fruits of hard labor and confidence in youngsters
are evident. Above, some of the young champions.

for likely-looking material. On the school handball
court she found her first four prospects—Fred K04
valeski, Ed Roszak, Harry Witczak and Wally
Preston. She knew they wouldn’t play tennis for
tennis' sake, so she: didn’t mention the word at
first. “Boys,” she said, “how would you like to go
to college?” A“ I ' “r

“Sure,” 'the boys ch'orused. “How ?” '

“On tennis scholarships.” ' , .

At that, the boys balked; they couldn’t play
tennis. But within a few short weeks they did play
tennis—and played it for all they were worth. At
first, practice was a big laugh, with‘ much self—
conscious horseplay. But they came up with a jolt
when they were overmatched with an experienced
Detroit team and lost miserably. Coach Hoxie did
it deliberately to teach them a lesson. Tennis was
a tough game to play well, they discovered. S0-
bered, the boys settled down to the rugged Hoxie
training schedule. The activity of the squad drew
other tryouts, and the tennis clinic grew.

Next year saw several Hoxie players reach the
semi-finals in the Detroit championships. Then
the fruits of hard labor began to pay off. In 1941,
Jean Hoxie took her four fifteen-year-olds—Ko—
valeski, Roszak, W'itczak and Preston—to the Na-
tional Indoor Eastern Matches in New York.
Kovaleski went to the semi-finals in the junior
singles and to the finals in the doubles. Roszak
lost to the winner of the singles. A year later,
Kovaleski earned his first important national rank-
ing—fifth in the junior singles. The other Hoxie-
trained youths weren’t far behind.

Since then, tennis aces have developed at Ham-
tramck in profusion. In one year the Pulaski
School team played 101 individual matches with-
out a loss. Eight-courts are now in constant use,
and more are planned. Scores of youngsters are

i91

on these courts every possible day, going through
mass drills with their red-headed instructress,
whose title is now city tennis director.

Mrs. Hoxie pays a visit to the Commissioner of
Correction every few months to ask that delin-
quent boys be assigned to her on probation. She
has taught tennis to about sixty in the last three
years. So far, not one has been in trouble again.
A fourteen—year—old lad who had run afoul of the
law is now a ranking player on one of the Pulaski
School’s singles teams; another boy is one of Pu-
laski’s best doubles players. Grades improve, too,
for to stay on the team the boys must maintain at
least a B average in studies.

Jean Hoxie applies a simple and direct system
to her probationers. “How would you like your
name in the newspapers—as a hero instead of a
thief?” she asks a boy. If he grins unbeliev-
ingly, she shows she means business by putting
him under serious tennis instruction immediately
and assigning a local hero, such as Ted Jax or
Kovaleski, as a big-brother guardian.

The second step is to build in the boys a bond
of confidence and respect for her by taking a per-
sonal interest in their family and school problems.
Then she seeks ways of developing personal re-
sponsibility. One youngster was put in charge of
her personal bank account. Another handles money
for the Pulaski team.

Last, but vitally important, is the child’s family.
“If the kids are delinquent, it’s because the parents
were delinquent in responsibility,” says Jean
Hoxie. So she visits the mothers and fathers, tact-
fully pointing out that she’s going to make gentle-
rnen of their boys, and plays hard on parental
pride. “In every case so far,” she says, “the folks
have taken more interest in the kids. That’s half
the battle.”

Jean Hoxie knows that many of her impover-
ished pupils are bright as buttons and need only
stimulation and guidance to climb as high as Amer-
ican youth anywhere. She has already sent thirty
boys to college on tennis scholarships.

The key to Jean Hoxie’s success is that she runs
her program with rigid controls. Even with six-
year—olds, the championship idea is instilled from
the beginning. By the time they’re ten, Hoxie
pupils must pass a test on service, drive, drop shot
and smash. She throws them into tournament
play early. At the National Boys’ Championships
in Kalamazoo in 1946, one of her seven—year~olds
was the youngest child ever to play in a national
tennis event. He won, too.

More important to Jean Hoxie than tennis tech-
nique are poise, etiquette and character. No Hoxie

192

pupil ever enters a match without going through
an inspection that would shame the military. Every
player must radiate cleanliness.

Heavy emphasis is laid on sportsmanship, and
when a rising star gets a swelled head, Mrs. Hoxie
brings-in a better player to give him a lacing and
calm him down. She applies her code of fair play
to adults and youngsters alike. A prominent local
business man, playing against Pulaski School
youngsters, repeatedly called the lines wrong, giv-
ing himself dubious points. The kids, being Hoxie-
trained, couldn’t understand it, and were upset.
Finally Mrs. Hoxie saw it and called the man
over. “Right now,” she told him fiercely, “you’re
not even ten years old. If I catch you cheating
again, you’ll never play here any more.”

Today Mrs. Hoxie is understandably proud of
her boys’ and girls’ tennis accomplishments. But
she’s prouder still that the crime rate among Ham-
tramck’s youth has taken such a spectacular dive.
And Hamtramck, instead of sneering at tennis, is
today a city of tennis fans.

 

Evolution of
Tennis Strokes*

TENNIS TECHNIQUE HAS kept pace in its im—
provement with the changes in many other
sports. In the forearm drive stroke, for instance,
the sideways position to the net, to make possible
the side arm swing, has replaced the position of
facing the net. The side arm stroke results in the
safer arc flight of the ball, which clears the net and
has enough over—spin to drop in bounds. It also
gives greater reach, which enables the player to
cover the court more efficiently.

The outstanding change, however, has been in
the perfection of the backhand drive stroke. For
many years the backhand was played with a cut or
slice. Then came the backhand drive, but this stroke
handicapped the player because of the awkwardness
of using the same side of the racket for both the
forearm and backhand drive. With a change in
technique, the opposite side of the racket was used
simply by a shift of the hand on top of the handle.
The hand was free and comfortable in the Swing,
and the body was turned sideways, permitting a
longer swing and bringing the hitting arm on the
left side of the body. Finally came the shift of the
hand from the top of the handle to a slightly more
forward positon, allowing still greater freedom of
wrist action and as wide as possible body turn.

 

‘From Derign for Terms], by Mary K..Browne. A. S. Barnes and
Company, 1nc., New York. $3.00. For review, see page 219.

RECREATION

 

VERYONE DESERVES AN opportunity to develop
E the habit of reading for fun, or at least to be
introduced to its possibilities for recreation, ad-
venture, exploration in new worlds. In school we
learn to read for information, or to pass a given
course—which is excellent as far as it goes, but
only too seldom does it go any further. Many
teachers are concerned, but are too overburdened
to do more than make suggestions; too many
homes can be of little help. Therefore, unless we
are natural “bookworms,” the demands of other
activities and obligations, after school days are
over, keep us so busy that we never take the time
to become acquainted with this most delightful and
rewarding of leisure-time pursuits.

In view of the above facts, should not we, as
recreation leaders, initiate this activity in our cen—
ters, clubs, on our playgrounds—among all age
groups—as part of a well~rozmded recreation pro-
gram? Are we not in a strategic position to help
people discover literature for themselves——to help
them realize that it can be alive, interesting, and
fun? The need today, for leadership along this
path, is evidenced by the fact that, more and more,
teen-age book clubs are springing up all over the
country and becoming one of the most popular of
recreation activities. Here and there they are prov-
ing that exploratiOn among good books can be
more exciting than a fare of comic books.

Joseph Lee, you will remember, always empha-
sized reading for pleasure, as well as good con-
versation, as a very important part of recreation.
It was so easy for him to talk about “Alice in
‘ Wonderland,” about Jane Austen and all the books
that were dear to him. Much of his power in con-
versation came from his reading, which he had so
thoroughly digested that it had become a part of
him and was almost forgotten.

Reading aloud had a very important place in the
Lee household. Joseph Lee mentioned the delights
of having a cold, not too severe, for the opportu-
nity it gave to be read aloud to, from Trollope and

JULY 1949

Walter Scott. He writes that from the time of his
marriage “we read over our two favorite series
from Trollope and Miss Austen’s novels as often
as we thought decent. Mrs. Lee read aloud almost
every evening of our married life to me and to the
children.” Often he spoke of his delight in remem-
bering his father’s reading aloud the plays of
Shakespeare.

Variations of taste in books, as all those who
love them have discovered, can contribute greatly
toward making the world a diverting place in
which to live, and conversation is never more
stimulating than when it gossips of books. Read-
ing aloud can be an effective means of knitting the
family circle together, of entertaining a group of
whatever age, and of bringing individuals a little
closer through shared thought and experience,

To read for pleasure, however, is to read when-
ever and wherever the desire presents itself, if time .
and place permit. It is an activity with the great-
est carry-over value of all, and can be indulged in
by individuals, by groups, in homes, on the play-
grounds, in churches, hospitals, schools, camps, in

“lonely places, on the fringe of battlefields—any-

where. It is reported that Macauley read while
striding through the streets of London, and that
Willa Cather used to find pleasure in reading while
perched on top of an old windmill. No genuine
reader can fail to understand this, even though his
enthusiasm might not take him quite so far.
Almost every community in the country has its
library, available to all. A wide-awake recreation
department will establish a close working relation-
ship with it. You will find most librarians eager
to cooperate with a recreation project in any pos-
sible way, and this working jointly has successfully
enriched the program in many localities. The use
of book wagons on the playgrounds and in rural
areas also has helped considerably. Books on any

“subject can be borrowed very easily. Recreation.

leaders can point the way.
However, there is a further step which should

193

more often be taken in the logical development of
the appreciation of good reading—that of encour-
aging the collection of personal libraries, of ac—
quainting peOple with the satisfaction of owning
some of their own favorites. A personal library
can be like a collection of old friends, a source of
great comfort and of countless enjoyable leisure—
time moments.

Variety in reading is important. There is much
that is admirable about new books, for instance,
and one does not want to miss them; but great
books are apt to be the old ones which have stood
the test of time. There is something comforting
_about an old book; old friends proverbially are
best. But old books or new—happiness can be
found among them, joy in owning them.

A first step toward stimulating interest in
reading is to start a combination book club and
discussion group. Another is to enrich other ac-
tivities by adding to them the reading and discus-
sion of related books, such as the reading of the
lives and experiences of artists—old and new—to
the program of art groups; the lives of composers,
the stories of operas, to that of music groups, and
so on, always bearing in mind the fact that read-
ing can interest all ages.

Socially, a reading club presents an Opportunity
to make'newfriends, to get into some satisfying
discussions, to share interests, to hear about books.
You will find that it can grow amazingly in pOpu-
larity 'and size, such as happened in Pittsiield,
Massachusetts, for example. There the idea started
back in 1931, with a group of fourteen, and grew,
to over two hundred, making it necessary to split
into two groups—which are still going strong.
Twice a month a supper meeting is held; and, im-
mediately following supper, additional peOple join
the'group for the book reviews and discussions
which last for about an hour and a half. A per-
manent chairman takes charge, and each month
turns the meeting over to different members, who
do the reviewing and lead a discussion of the
books, the lives of the authors, and  else
pertaining thereto. All this is done very infor—
mally, a permanent committee recommending
books to the group for a vote as to whether they
will be reviewed or not. Such reviewing stimu—
lates interest and curiosity, and leads to—reading.

Organization of a Club

The two most usual kinds of book clubs are:
THE INFORMAL—This often is a small group of
people who like to read, and who get together to
talk about books. They gather once a month,
sometimes oftener, at supper, at luncheon, at tea or

194

in the evening, at which time several chosen books
are reviewed by persons informally selected at a
previous meeting. Another member of the group
may lead the discussion, and someone else may tell
anything he has been able to glean about the
author’s life.

THE MORE FORMAL—Book reviews for the
large and more formal groups are often given by
a professional librarian, teacher or bookshop owner,
followed by a more formal question and answer
period. These are sometimes arranged with the
cooperation of the local library staff and, in some
cases, the author may be invited to make a guest
appearance. He might be asked to discuss the
writing of his book, the subject be dealt with,
reading in general, selection of good reading; au—
thors he has known, or any number of related
topics; and, of course, the meeting often rounds
out the evening as an autographing party.

Authors are usually glad to cooperate in any
possible way, their schedules permitting. During
the war, the “Book and Authors \Var Bond Drive”
was very successful, and the authors happy to help
out whenever possible.

There seems to be no ideal number of members
for the start of a good book club discussion group.
Many have stalled-with as few as eight pCOple,
and gradually grown to a membership of around
thirty or more. Some of the ways of arousing in—
terest in such a project are to submit publicity
stories and editorials to school and local news-
papers; to have art groups make bulletin board
posters promoting reading and club membership;
to arrange local radio broadcasts about books,
reading and the book club—written and produced
by club members.

 

Traveling libraries bring books to rural people, to
playgrounds and to housing units. British Columbia

truck, above, holds 1,200 books. Libraries and rec-
reation departments can cooperate on such projects.

RECREATION

Many book clubs depend upon use of the local
library for their supply of books, and the question
often is asked: “Isn’t it difficult to get a copy of
the selected book, when so many people want it at
the same time?” This situation, indeed, presents
a difficulty, but let us not forget that this activity
is open to all, and that there will be those in the
group who have read the book already and can
review it, while the others invariably will make
time to obtain it later, and in turn. The important
thing is that a book club will stimulate interest in
reading in any age group, and offer participants a
valuable and rewarding leisure-time pursuit, which
can open up exciting new worlds, and extend hori-
zons indeiinitely. Let’s start a book club!

New Experiments

An interesting light on the development of book
clubs in the teen-age field during the past two
years is that, in large part, they are the result of
the interest of a New York book publishing house*
in promoting good reading habits for the young.
With the advice of leaders in national educational
and library organizations, these publishers have
been offering practical help to teen-agers and lead-
ers in the form of suggestions for the formation of
such clubs; and have deve10ped a plan of putting
within the range of the small pocket allowance a
list of the good books of all time. Teachers have
welcomed‘this assistance with delight—some 3,000
active clubs, springing up in high schools all over
the United States. Recreation people, too, would
do well to investigate its possibilities.

Another interesting experiment—a community
crusade for worthwhile children’s books—about
which other communities should know, was re-
cently introduced by the same publishers. It was
first tried in Morristown, New Jersey—a typical
American toWn with typical youthproblems—as a
- part of the local hght against juvenile delinquency.
It was so successful that a movement for such
community crusades now is being sponsored by all
fifty-nine publishers represented on the Children’s
Book C0uncil. Starting in September, 1949, it also
will be sponsored nationally by the United States
Junior Chamber of Commerce.

The Morristown Community, convinced of the
importance of good reading to youth, established,
under the sponsorship of the Chamber of Com-
merce, a concerted drive by PTA’s, schools,
churches, American Legion and VFW posts, serv-
ice clubs, police, business, industry, professional
groups cooperating on a big scale to promote a
healthy‘type of reading, and to place such reading

 

* Pocket Books, Incorporated.

lULY 1949

 

. , :2.
Jun?“ “M “mad”- '

 '

[n Morristown, New Jersey, a crusade for good read-
ing for boys and girls is a part of the campaign
against juvenile delinquency. Here Mayor Clyde
Potts sits as judge at a juvenile court session.

within the reach of everybody by the sale of low
"cost books. Said Mayor Potts: “We want our
children to read good, entertaining books—not
sordid, gruesome trash.” Police Chief Roff, who
offered enthusiastic cooperation, added: ‘fI’m one
hundred per cent for anything that will get sen- '
sational literature—filled with sadistic drawings
and crime glorifying sequences—out of the hands‘ _
and minds of children. . . :* This is a positive step '
toward giving youngsters good reading, and a real
blow to vicious literature.”

Businesses—automobile, grocery, hardware, and
so on—cooperated to the extent of running large
ads in the ‘local press, promoting good, low-priced
books instead of their usual merchandise; Norman
Tomlinson, publisher of the local Daily Record,
announced in Editor and Publisher: “. . . because
of the unprecedented onslaught of copy and ads
over the normal daily flow—more than 1,600 col-
umn inches of crusade advertising—. . . our com-
posing room went on a six-day shift.”

One of the surprising results of this community-
wide project was dramatic proof that teen-agers
prefer good literature when it is made available to
them at the same low cost as lurid thrillers. Over
2,000 teen-agers demonstrated that they will read
worthwhile books—if they are well printed, packed
with illustrations, and made easily available to
them.

The Morristown plan has been picked up by
other communities and initiated in Newark, New
Jersey, by the Girl Scouts Council; in Wilming-
ton, Delaware, Kansas City, Missouri, and Pas-
saic, New Jersey, by the Junior Chambers of Com-
merce; in Dearborn, Michigan, by combined civic

groups, and is gathering momentum as a nation-7
wide campaign.

195

Clarence Simms and Patsy Wells,

of the club. Strictly grown

 

youngest members
~up equipment is used.

 

THE GROUP OF sportsmen laughed indul-
gently when little Patsy \Vells, eight-and-

a-half years old, picked up a fishing rod taller
than herself. But their amusement quickly
changed to envy when her first cast landed
smack in the middle of the target fifty feet from
shore. Patsy’s accurate cast was not just a

civic project that might well be emulated in
many other communities where the big bass
bite or the tarpon roil the waves.

At her tender age, Patsy probably knows
more about fishing than many adults who have
to content themselves with bragging about the
big one that got away. Along with other Mount
Dora youngsters, Patsy is receiving valuable in-
struction that will stand her in good stead all
through later life. Fishing is one of the most
satisfying hobbies, especially in a state that offi—
cially boasts the greatest black bass fishing in
the world. '

Mount Dora’s junior Isaac W'altons now are
sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce and
local merchants, but it was not always so. The
club sprang into being one day last September
when Margo Hosford, an attractive widow with
a flair for fishing, noticed three boys walking
down the town’s main drag with fishing rods
in their hands. As they walked, in the time-

honored manner of youth, they made imaginary
casts in the direction of passersby, fire hydrants,

boys’ free-wheeling, side-arm, round-house casts
was immediate and spontaneous. “How,” she
asked them, “would you like to form a club and
really learn to cast like experts?”

Their response was typically American: “Gee,”
they replied in one breath, “could we ?” They
could, and did, with Mrs. Hosford—Margo to
everybody in Mount Dora—as instructor.

To say that the club spawned rapidly would be
much more accurate than dragging in mushrooms.
Mount Dora is not the largest community in Lake
County and word gets around fast, especially when
propelled by the lusty lungs of small fry. When
Margo reached the shore of Lake Dora a week
after her first meeting with the three young fish-
ermen, there were fifteen grinning young casters
snarling lines all over the lake front. Next week
there were twenty-three, and then and there the
Mount Dora Casting Club was officially created,
with those present as charter members.

Like the size of catches in fish stories, the club
has grown steadily ever since. Its membership is
now a record forty moppets,'and it is the‘ apple of
Chamber of Commerce Secretary Bill Well’s eye.
It was Secretary Wells who gave the club its first
big break. After struggling along in comparative
obscurity for several months, Wells persuaded the
chamber’s board of directors to buy the members
some distinctive T-shirts, That did 'it. From
twenty-three, the number of aspiring anglers
jumped astronomically, each neophyte eager to
gain the ability which would permit him to wear
the club’s insignia.

The club members practice on the water front
lawn of Bill Prinz, ardent sportsman, using home—
made targets constructed of old bicycle wheels
mounted in wood squares. These are floated at
staggered intervals between thirty and fifty feet
from land. A twelve-pound test line is used, with
regulation practice plugs weighing five-eighths of
an ounce. It’s all strictly “grown up” equipment
and the rules of the National Association of An-
glers Clubs, modified to suit local conditions, are
adhered to strictly. I

Membership

Membership in the club represents a cross sec-
tion of Mount Dora and is a fine example of de—
mocracy at work. Sons and daughters of the
wealthy and poor are on an equal footing—it’s the
best cast that wins. The young anglers are learn-
ing lessons in sportsmanship and human relations
which will help them later on to be better citizens,
as well as expert fishermen.

*Reprinted from Florida Wildlife.

” C:

Alfred Rehbaum III, nine-year-old Mount Dora boy,
here demonstrates the “bit lip” casting technique.

On water or dry land, a cast is a cast with. these
lads who are serious about being expert fishermen.

I

 

 

More 65111475 for #16 Jr’aI/Idimppc’d

URI xc THE LAST week in June, each year, New
D York’s Grand Central Station teems with
children, as thousands of younger apartment dwell-
ers start off to camp. It is a scene that is repeated
on a smaller scale in railway and bus terminals all
over the nation. In August they return—taller,
heavier, browner, healthier. Their changes, how-
ever, are not all physical, for under the chigger
bites and tan is a summer of rich experience.

Today camping is no longer merely taking a
group of city children into the country, but is
recognized as a group living experience that has
a Special contribution to make to the emotional and
social growth of a child. A valuable experience
for any youngster, it is even more important to
the physically handicapped child who, because of
illness, hospitalization and immobility, may have
been cut off from the normal experience of child
development.

Although camping facilities for handicapped
children are still meager compared with the need,
more and more specialized camps are being started
each year. Records of the National Society for
Crippled Children and Adults show that in 1920
only 200 crippled children received camping serv-
ices through their afhliates, compared with 3,200
in 1947. These children represented twenty-live
different crippling conditions, with cerebral palsy
and poliomyelitis predominating. The average cost
for a child was $2.25 a day.

In an effort to discover how many camps pro-
vide facilities for handicapped children, a Special-
ized Services Committee of the American Wp—
ing Association is undertaking a national survey of
all their member camps. This will be coordinated
with a similar study recently completed by the
National Society for Crippled Children, and an
effort made to improve the standards of operation
of all such camps. Even before the studies were

 

Reprinted from the N ew York Timer, August 1948.

198

HOWARD A. RUSK, M.D.

started, oHicials of both organizations knew from

the letters of inquiry they received that such fa-
cilities were far too limited to care for the number
of children who would benefit from such services.

At Camp Daddy Allen

One of the best-known public summer camps for
handicapped children is Camp Daddy Allen, oper-
ated by the Pennsylvania Society for Crippled
Children and Adults in the Pocono Mountains.
Founded in 1941, and named for one of the pio—
neers in work with crippled children, Camp Daddy
Allen each year takes 100 boys and girls, from
eight to eighteen years of age, for an eight-week
period. Activities such as athletics, hiking, swim-
ming, dramatics and arts and crafts vary little
from those of a regular camp, except that they are
adapted, wherever necessary, to fit the physical
capacities of the child. More than half of the chil-
dren receive physical therapy treatment regularly
from the camp’s three therapists. Marked physical
improvement frequently is made during the camp
session, but the greatest value is the growth in
self-confidence and self-sufficiency. Children learn
to be at ease with others and, before long, forget
their own difficulties. ‘

The value of such an experience is shown by the
following case report written over two years ago
by a counselor in a children’s camp near St. Louis,
Missouri. “Bobby took part in several all-camp
entertainments. At Iirst he seemed a little shy, but
soon forgot his shyness and gave an excellent per-
formance. Bobby played the role of a clown on
Carnival Night and enjoyed his action role very
much. He was a good sport, but at times the
strangeness of group life bore down upon him.
He teased other boys, but did not like to be teased
himself. As time passed, he came to understand
the ways of other boys, and realized that group
living is a process of give and take.”

The Bobby the counselor wrote about was a ten—

RECREATION

Handicapped children soon learn to
be at ease with others, and forget
themselves, during a camp session.

year-old boy who had lost his leg. An active child,
he was lost in his adjustment to his handicap.
His family was unfit to give him much help, for
it, too, was overwhelmed by the accident. The
first adjustment came from his camp experience.

City Camps Aid Handicapped

Among the most prominent New York camps
serving orthopedically handicapped children are
Camp Carola at Spring Valley, operated by the
New York Philanthropic League, and Camp Oak-
hurst at Oakhurst, New Jersey, operated by the
New York Service for the Orthopedically Handi-
capped. Camp Carola has a thirty-day recreational
camping period for girls from six to sixteen; Camp
Oakhurst provides both recreational and therapeu-
tic services for boys and girls from four to four-
teen. Both camps have a large number of cerebral
palsied children. Last summer, Center Moriches,
a new camp for Orthopedically handicapped chil-
dren' of Suffolk County, was opened under the
sponsorship of the local Rotary Club and the New
York State Association for Crippled Children.

Other specialized camps in New York are Camp
NYDA, operated by the New York Diabetic Asso-
ciation for diabetic children, and Camps Light-
house and VVapanacki, operated by the New York
Association for the Blind and the New York In-
stitute for the Education of the Blind.

A number of other camps, such as Edgewater
Creche and Rethmore Home (New York Protes-
tant Episcopal City Mission Society) ; Camp Fili-
cia (Ethical Culture Society) ;Mont Lawn (Chris-
tian Herald Association); Camp Christmas Seals
(Brooklyn Tuberculosis and Health Association) ;
Bronx Housei Camp; and the Lulu Thorley Lyons
Home will accept a limited number of children
with various types of handicaps. '

The primary need in New York, according to
the Camp Information Service of the Children’s

lULY 1949

 

Welfare Federation, a coordinating agency for
such services, is for more services for epileptic,
diabetic and cardiac children, and for camps serv-
ing normal boys and girls to accept handicapped
children. The latter is particularly important for,
as with classroom education, these children, when-
ever possible, should associate with physically nor—
mal youngsters. '

In the case of some physical conditions, such as
epilepsy, regular camps, because of the lack of
understanding, facilities and trained personnel, re—
fuse to accept such children. False. conceptions
about epilepsy still persist, although recently dis-
covered medicine can control seizures completely
in seventy per cent of all cases. The ailment has
no connection with intelligence, and most epilep-
tics can lead normal lives in work, play and social
activities.

To combat such misunderstanding, the National
Association to Control Epilepsy conducted a two-
year study in which non-epileptic children and
those with seizures that could be controlled medi-
cally were placed together in the same camp, with
the latter group participating in all activities. Re-
sults proved that both groups could attend the
same camp without difficulty, and now a greater
number of regular camps serving normal children
are admitting epileptic children whose seizures can
be medically controlled.

Among the newer developments in Specialized
camps are those for speech and hearing, where
children can combine speech therapy and hearing
training with normal camp life. Day camps are
also particularly valuable for physically handi—
capped children, who, through lack of opportunity
for developing social maturity, are not easily able
to make an adjustment to being away from home
in the company of a large number of strange chil-
dren. A large—scale experiment with such camps
in Chicago has proved exceptionally successful.

- 199

Arts and Crafts in Day Camping

eel,

AY CAMPING Is not a separate activity to be
D isolated from daily living, but should enrich
the participants’ interest in all forms of living ex-
periences. It provides knowledge which can be
used in other forms of living besides carnping. Arts
and crafts, as part of such a program, should bring
to the campers keener understanding, appreciation
and interest in all kinds of ' creative activities and
must be related to camp and non-camp living.

Training
Pre-camp training should be required for all
leaders before they are allowed to attempt day
camping leadership, amounting to twenty hours of
training for a six-to-ten-week day camp session
and forty hours of training for a longer periOd.

Objectives of the training program should be:

1. Philosophy and values of crafts.

2. Methods of presentation.

3. Basic understanding of design and color.

4. Techniques, procedures, equipment, materials for each
craft to be presented.

5. Sufiicient practice to acquire skill needed to demon-
strate each craft gracefully.

6. A clear understanding of age level interests and the
crafts best suited to meet them.

7. All the above objectives should be learned by doing,
not from lectures.

Contents of the training program should include

eighteen to twenty crafts:

1. Crafts related directly to the out-of-doors—woods,
fields, rivers, lakes, mountains, and so forth. These
stimulate interest in, and understanding of, nature.
Spatter paintings or blue prints of leaves, to better
recognize trees, are examples.

2. Crafts related indirectly to out-of—door interests.
These use natural materials to make objects for the
home or for wearing apparel. \Veaving with wood,
grasses, and so on, are examples.

3. Crafts related to camping, used directly in camp activ-
ities. For instance, building tables, huts, fireplaces, etc.

Personnel

A person thoroughly trained and experienced in
arts and crafts in day camping should be hired to
supervise the program. If day camping is an all-
year-round (or nearly so) activity, then a full

200

Recommendations prepared by Frank A.

Staples, bead of arts and crafts for the N a-

tional Recreation Association, for a state
day camp Ieaders’ course.

h

time arts and crafts specialist is needed. If the day
camp session is for a short period, a part-time Spe-
cialist should be hired. This part-time specialist
should train the day camp leaders and give part-
time supervision to the program in Operation.
Equipment

There is no one list of crafts for day camping,
for the crafts will vary according to location of the
camp, type of participants and type of leadership.
Equipment needed for a successful crafts program
will vary according to type of activities planned.

Equipment is classified in two groups—general
and special. Special equipment cannot be listed
until the actual crafts program is planned. For
example, there are special tools used in some crafts
which would not be used in any other.

General equipment can be listed, however. These
tools are used in all or most crafts:

. Article Number Needed
1. Awl or ice pick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . lto 3

*2. Hammer (small and large) . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

*3. Saw (cross cut) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

*4. Hatchet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12

*5. Shovel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12 

*6. Deep Pan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

7. Shallow Small Pan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12 .1

*8. Large Basin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

*9. Small Pan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12

*10. File (half round 8") . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12

*ll. Scissors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

12. Pins (straight) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. llarge box

13. Hack Saw . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2

*14. Rulers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

15. Drill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

*16. Coping Saw . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. n 24

17. Mixing Spoon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 i

18. Mallet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 '

l9. Tin Snips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 6

20. Hand Clamps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12

This is only a general statement. The location
of the camp, the age and interest of the partici-
pants, and the character of leadership control this
list. After these factors are known, the equipment
list is planned by the arts and crafts specialist.

 

*Minimum Equipment.

RECREATION

 

“Topside” of the U.S.S. Leyte is so large that it reminds one of three football fields laid end to end.

Recreation in Uncle Sam’s Navy

An oj?icer describes play life of young men who go down to the sea.

IFE ON BOARD one of Uncle Sam’s great Navy
L plane carriers, such as the U.S.S. Leyte,
CV32, is exciting, unusual and something to talk
about

A first impression of this magnificent ship is
one of amazement at her tremendous size. “Top-
side,” or the flight deck, is so large that it makes
one think of three football fields laid end to end.
The Leyte is 888 feet overall length, standing more
than five stories above the water line, capable of a
speed of thirty t0 thirty—two knots per hour, and
carries approximately 2,500 officers and men. These
figures add up to a fairly important community.

Recreation in Uncle Sam’s Navy is quite differ-
ent today from that of the “good old days” of sail-
ing vessels, Captain Bligh skipper-s and shanghaied
crews. A keg of rum or a barrel of ale aboard ship,
or being left to one’s own resources on shore, are
no longer the accepted forms of recreation for the
“line young men who now go down. to the sea in
Navy ships.

Today the crew is younger. Many of them have
had athletic experience in high school previous to

JULY 1949

Wilton S. Clements, LCDR., USNR

entering the'Navy. It is only natural that these
lads bring with them the concomitant learnings and
desires of the average young man still on the “out-
side”. This, of course, affects their recreation life
insofar as conditions on board the ship will per-
mit. In general, opportunities are offered for ag-
gressive, competitive or even intellectual activities.

Recreation in the U. 8. Navy is planned to en-
able participants to expend stored—up energy, learn
good sportsmanship, develop latent talents, and to
find relaxation from strenuous physical work, con-
finement to limited quarters and a monotony of
routine duties seldom found in other professions.

On the U.S.S. Leyte, as on all Navy ships, the
recreation program must fit into the “plan of the
day,” and work takes precedence over play. Rev-
eille sounds at 4:30 or 5:30 each morning, and
everyone is busy until 4 :30 in the afternoon. Such
a schedule makes a long day, but youth will always
have the desire and energy to play. After the last
fness gear has been scrubbed, the men naturally
gravitate to those forms of recreation nearest at
hand or most interesting to them.

201

The Leyte has a recreation committees—a pat-
tern pretty well followed by the majority of large
ships—which is composed of two enlisted men
from each of the seven departments. A second
committee is made °up of a number of officers
whose collateral duties are welfare (keeping books
on the welfare fund), and athletics coaching var-
sity teams), a representative of the executive offi-
cer and a bos’n to speak for the petty officers.
The chaplain acts in an advisory capacity to both
committees. He is chairman of the enlisted men’s
committee, calling the meeting to order, stimulat-
ing their thinking and then quietly withdrawing in
order to give the men democfatic freedom in plan-
.ning their own program: 

A written report 'of the enlisted men’s, meeting

' is _forwarded to Ath'e ofiicer representatives, who

carefully ,co‘ri’si’cfereall requests and then pass them
otho the ship’s captain for final action. An intéf—
esting"'statement was made by the chaplain, Padre
L. H. Marchino, who said, “In the majority of
cases there has been complete agreement and full
sanction by the officer group as to the original
wants of the enlisted men’s committee and the
captain acted accordingly.”

Recreation for a ship’s company may be arbi-
trarily divided into two general categories: The
first is, of necessity, the type which can be enjoyed
on board a ship, usually limited in area and facil—
ities. The second is that conducted ashore.

v - In the first classification one finds greater space
on a carrier, such as the Leyte, than on any other
kind of ship. This is made possible. by transferring
the planes from the first, or hangar deck, to “top-
side.” Such a transfer makes room for a basketball
court, badminton and volleyball court, a boxing
and wrestling ring, and a place for ball playing.

At night, in this same area, a large movie screen
is Unfolded from the ceiling, and hundreds of men
sit in comfortable folding chairs to see what Holly-
wood has to offer. Just forward of the movie
screen is elevator number one, which can be low-
ered from the flight deck to four or five feet above
the hangar deck to make a fairly satisfactory stage
—unless it is raining. Here are held the “smokers”
or “happy hours,” when all kinds of talent from
the company may participate. They include wres-
tlers, boxers, singers, magicians, dancers, story-
tellers and musicians, as well as celebrities from
stage and screen when the ship is in port.

The more passive forms of recreation on board
the Leyte are to be found in the enlisted men’s
lounge. Here a piano, a j uke box, a radio, reading,
writing and smoking facilities, card games, check-
ers, chess and the “good ole” Navy game of crib-

202

bage are enjoyed. The hobby shop is located one
deck below, with facilities for leisure-time hand-
craft projects—in wood, leather, metal, plastics
and similar materials. A competent chief is the
volunteer instructor, and it is only natural that
making model airplanes is a favorite hobby of
many of the carrier’s personnel.

The ship’s library and newspaper come under
the direction of the chaplain, and offer splendid
Opportunities for the crew to express themselves
in print or to read the efforts of others. The li-
brary contains hundreds of ' good books, pamphlets,
magazines and phonograph records, all of which
may be borrowed for a seven-day period. Equip-
ment for printing the newspaper includes a vacu-
um fed pfess and other modern machinery, with
facilities for making cuts from photographs taken
on shipboard. Dances and special parties on‘b’liard
the ship are enjoyed while at anchor in both home
and foreign ports. ‘ '3‘”

The second recreation classification usually con-
sists of parties ashore, picnics, golfing, swimming,
horseback riding, and countless sight-seeing tours
with the ever popular snapping of pictures, the
buying of dozens and dozens of foolish souvenirs,
and the consuming of amazing amounts of food.

Two outstanding recreation events have been
sponsored by the Leyte crew.w.The first was an
unusual Christmas party, given in 1947 and 1948
for the underprivileged children in and around
their home port of Quonset, Rhode Island. The
second was the Good \Vill International Track and
Athletic Meet atIzmir, Turkey, in 1947. Both of
these projects proved the crew of this gallant ship
to be unselfish, brotherly men, blazing new trails
in recreation as well as in aerial naval warfare.

The one criticism of the recreation program on
the U.S.S. Leyte is true for the majority of ships
in Uncle Sam’s Navy. \Vhile it is an accepted fact
that there is great need for a desirable recreation
program to keep up a high morale, it is just as
true a fact that a limited budget prevents expert
recreation officers from being assigned to even the
larger ships. As a result, many ships’ company
officers, already overloaded with departmental
duties, are given the additional assignment of han-
dling the recreation program. Furthermore, the
majority of these officers do not have the training
to perform their recreation duties in the most sat-
isfactory manner.

\Vorld \Var II has demonstrated that recreation
can be handled best by officers and men trained in
recreation, who are not handicapped by numerous
other duties and who are responsible directly to
the executive officer and the captain of the ship.

RECREATION

In enlisted men’s lounge a piano, juke box, radio,
reading, game facilities offer fun and relaxation.

!

55'

g/r
i.
'

‘

Men have a choice of a variety of activities. Deep
sea fishing is exciting, and a favorite sport of many.

NAVY RECREATION

has changed since the
days of sailing ships

Navy men enjoy parties, picnics, sports and sight-
seeing tours ashore—and sometimes acquire pets.

Members of the company take part in “smokers” which
uncover all kinds of talent, from boxing to singing.

Hobby shop has facilities for many handcraft proj-
ects, including the favorite—making model planes.

 

3151' NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

Municipal Auditorium

0am SEPTEMBER 12-16, 1949 . NEw ORLEANS, LA.

DATE I MORNING l AFTERNOON I EVENING
9:15-10:45 11:00- 12:30

 

     
      

 

4:15 - 5:30

   

Registration Opens (No. Liberty Street En-
trance. Municipal Auditorium)

 

Sunday

 

 

 

Administrative Problems of Recreation Executives
Industrial Recreation Conference

   
  
 
    
 
 
  
 
    
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
      

 

 

 

 

 

Monday Hospital Recreation Programs . Aricii:§t’éi?::iom OPENING
Se tember 12 Recreation in Colleges Ajawjt’é Sifdons Music EEESrg-‘IIESGL
P How to Serve the Recreation Needs of Rural M s.“ m 5 Social Recreation
Areas and Small Communities “5.”: .
SocIal Recreation
Discussion Groups Discussion Groups
Camping I Camping " TOUR OF NEW ORLEANS
One-Man SiaiT Training l 
TUGSCIOY Local BEard Members Television S E EVENING
' Researc Service Men P C I A L
september 13 Older People Citizen Boards M E E T I N G S SESSION
Playgrounds Reservoirs
Industrial Recreation Conference
Generoi Session
Summary Reports
College Recreation Discussion Groups
One-Man Staff Training ll
Camping Sports and Athletics l Activity Sessions
Wednesday Breagzsgs under “1° kocall Board Members Public Relations l Arts and Crafts 
. . ura State Agencies l Music
September 14 [Beg'm “ 7'30) Older People Pro-School Children Social Recreation SESSION
Playgrounds Church Recreation
Television rProgram
Research
Reservoirs

 

Generoi Session
Summary Reports

Discussion Groups Service Men
Sports and Athletics II Official Boards

Siglcfgliagi’elslll PLaSlribnRelaiions C R U I S E D O W N T H E
Thursday “Emit; giiffi'i‘lci'fliéilm. M ' 5 5 ' 5 5 ' P P' 23:?
summer ' 5 “2:13.? “d °°'°*"°‘ “an: Io,  s p e c I A L 3*”
PaSZdAPPSSI'SaISIiIiChng Hcfli’cl’gglichg Celebra- M E E T I N G 5
Personnel Standards lions

Park Administration
and Programming

 

 

Closing Session
Summary Reports
Discussion Groups Sports and Athletics

The official program giving personnel. exact time and place
for each of these meetings will be available at the Congress
for every delegate who registers.

Problem Clinic State Agencies , . . . .
F ed Housing and Real personnel Standards Speakers at the evenIng general sessIons and then I'OplcS Wlll
rI ay Esiaie Problem Clinics be announced later. .
September 16 Gir's and Women Housing and Real 55- ALL CONGRESS SESSIONS WILL BE HELD IN THE NEW
PEi HF“ _ idie ORLEANS MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM. PLEASE USE THE
lnfanille ParalySIs Girls and Women ENTRANCE ON NORTH LIBERTY STREET.
Tourist Recreation lPet Ideas

Topics are abbreviated above. For full wording see list which

Infantile Paralysis
appears below.

Tourist Recreation

 

Administrative Problems of Recreation Executives Brig?l Your Problems to the Experts—A Problem

Problems Old and New of Local Board Members ' ' ' 'nic

What is the Place of Citizen Boards in the Adminis- TOPICS for Group Discuss'on Resolved: That Community Recreation Departments
tration of Park and Recreation Programs? Should Provide Programs and Leadership for Pre-

Camping Programs of Public Recreation Departments Adapting Programs because of Infantile Paralysis and School Children (A debate followed by d1scussron)

Recreation Program Possibilities for Churches Otber Epidemics (A committee report and open Recreation Use of Reservoirs and Other Water Areas

Living While Learning at College—-—College Recrea- discussion) What New Information Do We Need? A Round
tion Programs Living Begins at Gil—Recreation Programs for Older Table on Research _

New Trends in Programs for Girls and Women People (A demonstration) Community Services for the New Young Semcemen
Community Observances of Holidays and Special The One-Man Staff-How to he 1 Recreation Execu- Sports and Athletics (A committee report and open
Occasions tive and Everything Else 'discussion) I I
Hospital Recreation Programs Basic Principles of Park Administration and Pro- Newr Developments and Trends 1n State Recreation

What Progress Is Being Made in Improving Recrea- gramming Agencies _ . _ _
tion Standards in Housing and Real Estate De- Recreation Personnel Standards Eliects of Television on the Use of Lelsure-Time
VCIOPIIICHIS? Planning Recreation for Our Growing Population New Trails in the Field of Recreation for Touns_ts_
Pet Ideas Fundamentals of Playgronnd Operation Its-Service Undergraduate and Graduate Training
1 “atrial Recreation Public Relations Programs

21 -.‘~ RECREATION

WW at $546;

Commission Pitches In—The vast softball
and baseball program which is carried on in Wil-
liamsport, Pennsylvania, is certainly a major part
of its summer recreation picture each year. In fact,
the city’s ball leagues were written up in detail in
the May 14, 1949 issue of the Saturday Evening
Post. The Recreation Commission also points with
special pride to some 280 non-playing men who
have been the heart of the program, volunteering
their time and effort.

The Commission itself has served in a clerical
and advisory capacity to the Williamsport Associ-
ation of Softball and Baseball Leagues. This has
included fifteen leagues, seventy-one organized
teams, 1,200 players and 280 adult leaders. Wil-
liamsport’s Recreation Commission has helped by
maintaining a clearing house for the scheduling of
all softball games and baseball games; assisting in
the establishment ofKthe Mid-City League for boys
from the ages of thirteen to fifteen; working in
conjunction with the Williamsport Technical In-
stitute for the layout of Consistory Baseball Dia-
mond and preparation' for fill, and in other ways.

@

Strrrrike!-—-Once again, boys and girls in the
City of New Orleans have been given an oppor-
tunity to take part in a series of free bowling clin-
ics and sessions. Instituted several years ago by
the New Orleans Recreation Department, the
clinic continues annually to conduct a six week
period of bowling instructions, free of charge to
all participants. All a youngster has to do to take
part in this bowling program is to report to the
alley closest to his home every morning at nine
am. and start bowling.

:‘Q

Almost Magic—Almost everybody in Leaf
River, Illinois, decided one day that it would be
nice if the youngsters had a place to play. So the
butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker—in fact,
almost everybody—went to a vacant lot and dug,
raked, hammered and sawed. By nightfall, the

lollipop brigade had their playground, complete
with swings and see-saws.

JULY 1949

(a.
2

Sounds Like F un—The citizens 'of East Hart-
ford, Connecticut, will soon have another beautiful
place in which to spend their leisure hours. Forty-
three acres of land and a sixteen-room Swiss
chalet have been donated to the town by the United
Aircraft Division of the Pratt and Whitney Air-
craft Company. The building contains a huge ball-
room, dining room, locker rooms, refreshment bars
and many additional rooms necessary for a well-
rounded program of social recreation. In addition,
tentative plans call for a nine-hole golf course, a
day camp, picnic areas, nature trails, and a bridle
path. Winter activities will include a ski run, to-
boggan slide, ski jumps, and a ski tow.

1949 Resolution-——As a result of an analysis
of Milwaukee’s leisure-time needs, made last sum-
mer by the Municipal Recreation Department’s
staff, attention is being centered on providing
extra-curricular activities after school for the city’s
grade school children, both public and parochial.
Therefore, the department is planning the expan-
sion of its program and facilities in 1949, adding
eighteen after—school social centers for grade school
children, four evening social centers for teenagers,
four gymnasium centers for municipal basketball,
forty—two spring and fall playgrounds, and ten
summer playgrounds to its present attractions.

Fourth Estate Plus—Miami, Florida, claims
that it has the first youth movement in the nation
which combines newspaper activities with a pro-
gram of recreation. Each Friday, the Youth
Round-up, written by and for the young people of
Dade County, is published as a two-page weekly
section in the Miami Daily N ews. These two pages
offer interviews with celebrities, across the sea cor-
respondence, news of recreation activities, poetry,
fashion news and other features of interest to boys
and girls.

Just recently, a twelve-page, first birthday edi-
tion of the Roundup was issued, representing one
year’s work with youngsters from the first grade
through high school.

205 i

In the Field . . . Lebert ll. Weir

 

EBERT WEIR, well-known and loved recreation
worker, who has been in there pitching almost
since the recreation movement was born, is a
Scotsman—and proud of it. The blue tie, which
but incidentally matches his eyes, is usually a care-
fully chosen \Veir plaid originated by his ancient
clan in the Scottish highlands. His ancestors, he
tells us proudly, were brigands—lawless, fighting
people who usually managed to be in disgrace with
their king. Perhaps this helps explain Lebert
W eir’s tenacity in his life-long fight to help Amer-
ican youth and American communities realize their
right to an opportunity for free, healthy and con-
structive play.

Though he has the canny Scot’s distaste of
spending a foolish dollar, for which he takes a
great ribbing from his fellow workers, his life
through the years speaks for his outstanding gen-
erosity. \Vithout fail, the many communities in
which he has lived have been left better places be-
cause he resided there. Volunteer activities, on his
own time, and in addition to his professional re-
sponsibilities, have. again and again contributed
greatly needed help in furthering local recreation
and health services.

Mr. “'eir is a graduate of the University of
Indiana, and through the years has taken post
graduate work‘at Leland Stanford and the Univer-

2W7

sity of Cincinnati. He has also studied park and
recreation developments in Europe as an Ober-
lander Fellow. Back in 1909, when Howard
Braucher first came to the National Recreation
Association, articles were appearing in the old
Playground Magazine about vigorous and inter-
esting eXperiments in the field of recreation which
were being conducted in Cincinnati, Ohio. In
1910 Mr. Braucher went out to investigate, and 'to
meet the man responsible—Lebert \Veir. I

At the time of Mr. Braucher’s visit, Mr. \Veir
had 'been chief ofiicer of the juvenile court for five
years. During this period, one of his prime con-
cerns had been ways in which to keep youngsters
out of court. In 1907 there had been trouble with
the street trades’ boys, thievery and gangdom, and
Lebert \Veir acted without delay. Believing that
the supplying of good, healthy recreation was the
answer to the problem, he promptly founded the
Newsboys Protective Association, raising several
thousand dollars privately, setting up a board of
directors. \Vhen he left Cincinnati in 1910, over
2,500 boys belonged to the club, and never had
a single one from that group appeared in the courts.

After the Club was well-established, he launched
a campaign for a million dollars for establishing
local playgrounds. The city council was not con-
vinced, but put the project on the ballot to please
Mr. \Veir and his friends. Newsboys helped
mightin with the campaign, distributing buttons
and leaflets on street corners. The issue won by
a large majority. The first money was Spent for
two blocks of old tenements; and a model play-
ground was constructed. A man and a woman
were put in charge of the playground and small
community house—there being no trained leader-
ship available in those days. Juvenile court cases
had dropped off seventy-five per cent the first year,

- within a quarter-mile radius of that playground.

Mr. \Veir had access to court records, and these
statistics are accurate.

This, then, was the man whom Mr. Braucher
asked to be the first field secretary for the Play-
ground Association of America—which eventually
became the National Recreation Association.

“\Vhen he asked me if I would be interested in
the work,” states Mr. \Veir simply, “I said I
couldn’t think of anything that would interest me
more.” He immediately made arrangements to re-

RECREATION

sign in Cincinnati. At the time he owned a thirty-
one acre farm outside of the city, using it for his
boys.. He had made a practice of taking them there
individually, keeping them two and three weeks at
a time, teaching them gardening, hunting, fishing,
nature lore. They had never before experienced
this individual attention, and he received great
satisfaction from the affect it had upon their lives.
Eleven years later he deeded the property to the
Cincinnati Union Bethel—a social settlement—to
be used as a park, recreation and camp site for
employed girls and women.

In 1910, therefore, he came to New York, de-
lighted with the opportunity of working in a wider
field, to take up his duties as traveling representa-
tive for the Playground Association. As he puts
it, “I am the first, oldest and last” of that advance
guard. Five others were quickly selected to join
him, Jimmy Rogers being one who came on the
staff part-time in 1912, full-time in 1915.

In 1911, Lebert Weir set out for the west coast
to work throughout the western states, but prin-
cipally in California, Oregon, Washington and
British Columbia. In 1914, he returned to the
midwest to help set up the present recreation sys-
tem in Racine, Wisconsin. He then launched upon
a series of community surveys and the setting up
of recreation programs, which were to extend
through his many years of service to the recreation
movement, and were 'to take him the length and
breadth of the land, to the Virgin Islands, to
Europe.

When the war came along in 1917, he was en-
gaged in checking up on difficulties in Des Moines.
He immediately was sent to St. Paul and Minne-
apolis to organize committees under the War
Camp Community Service, then to Des Moines
for the same purpose, and to Trenton, Hattiesburg,
Pensacola, Alexandria. \Nhile still in the South,
he was asked to drop everything to go to Chili-
cothe, Ohio. In three or four months after arriv-
ing there, he had sti'engthened the program, raised
a half—million dollars, and set up a model commu-
nity for recreation at the edge of the Army camp.
Called the Camp Sherman Community Group of
Buildings, this was to become a training ground
for the rest of the National Recreation Association
workers, with Jimmy Rogers in charge of training

For a time Lebert Weir was general director of
“far Camp Community Service work in a variety
of communities, finally going to Washington,
D. C., where he remained to the end of the war
and for about a year afterwards. Thereafter he
went to New Mexico, to do field, work there, in
Arizona and in Texas. While in Silver City, the

I ULY 1949

W eirs owned their own home, behind which Le—
bert constructed a nine—hole golf course, “the like
of which has never been seen before or since”———to
use his own words. He put in concrete tees, and
greens made of iron filings. A golf course was an
unheard of thing in the town, and though the pop—
ulace came to laugh, they stayed to play. When
he left, he turned it over to the community. The
Silver City Community Golf Club maintained and
operated it for eight years and then purchased and
constructed a new course.

Among other extra-curricular activities while
there, his active concern for public welfare led him
to organize the Community Recreation Association
of Silver City, realizing three dollars per capita
in his fund raising. “This shows,” he says, “what
you can do in a small place.” Local recreation

'groups put on Broadway.theatrical productions,

taking in as much as $2,500 for a performance.

“In another southwestern city, however, condi-
tions were really terrible,” he observes, reminis—
cently puffing his ever-present cigar. “I made some
studies of social conditions, as I always do when
I move to a new place, and decided to tackle the
health situation first. Nothing was under health
supervision. Why, the death rate was twenty-
eight per thousand, totalling an average of ten
years 1”

To Lebert Weir, this fact was like a red flag.
He marched to the chamber of commerce offices
and laid down an ultimatum. “You are advertis-
ing this town as a health center,” he said, “and it’s
not right, with what I’ve seen of health conditions.
I’m going to do something about it; and, unless
you get behind me, I’m going to tell the world!”
At that time the public appropriation for health
supervision was only $1,900. The health depart-
ment was reorganized with an adequate appropri-
ation, and the community now has one of the most
effective health departments in the country.

Next he tackled the local juvenile delinquency-
problem. During this time he was on leave of
absence from the Association, so—-like the typical
busman on a holiday—he set himself up as chief
juvenile officer. While getting the situation in
hand, he established a small and very successful
sanitarium for indigent tuberculars, organized a
social workers group, raised money on a commu-
nity chest plan, established a twelve months’ school
plan with plenty of play for the children, arts and
crafts, games, trips to the mountains.

Over the period from 1910 to 1937 he worked
in every state in the Union, not being assigned to

.one territory. Results of his work were compiled

in book form along the way: “A Practical Recrea-

207

tional Manual for Schools," published by the State
Department -of Public Instruction, Oregon, in
1914; “Vocational Recreation in Indiana,” pub-
lished by the University of Indiana in 1916; “Buf-
falo Survey” in 1924. A series of national surveys
led to the assembling and publication of “Camping
Out—A Manual of Organized Camping,” his na-
tion-wide study published in 1924; “Parks—A
Manual on Municipal and County Parks,” a two-
volume, widely accepted work published in 1928.

His work in succeeding years has been a mix-
ture of many responsibilities. Currently he has
been interested in promoting the establishment of
state recreation consultant services in Kentucky,
Indiana, Illinois, \Visconsin and Minnesota; and
in promoting and establishing courses of instruc-
tion in recreation leadership in the institutions of
higher learning in thesestates.

Amazingly, somehow, he has found time to
make a study of wild flowers all over this country.
in the \Vest Indies and in Europe, and he is rec-

ognized by many park men as an authority on
plant life, “mistakenly”—or so he says.

As one would expect, with his questing mind,
another of his hobbies is that of continuous study,
and he owns a large library. At his old home in
Indiana, on a farm of three hundred acres, he has
accumulated his prized collection of books, a large
collection of local Indian relics, and paintings done
by artists locally and in New Mexico. He has
planted 3 5,000 trees, has 125 acres of woodland,
100 acres under cultivation, the rest in pasture
land—and has had the same resident farmer tak-
ing care of the place for thirty years. The farm
is an experiment in scientific farming and soil'

' conservation.

M r. \Veir sums up his amazing number of extra-
curricular activities with an embarrassed laugh,
“Many interests are very important to a rich, full
and useful life, as we all well know!” Next year
he will have been forty years in the recreation;
movement.

Canoemanship Tests

These are ogicial canoe tests adopted by the
Seminole Canoe Club of Jacksonville, Florida, and
the Dixie Division, American Canoe Association.

Novice

Prerequisite: Demonstrate competent swimming
ability. Swim 100 yards, jumping in feet first and
treading water for one minute. This should be
done with ease, satisfying the examiner that the
candidate can take care of himself under normal
conditions.

1. Demonstrate ability to launch canoe properly
and take canoe from water without sliding on keel.
Use an assistant.

2. Demonstrate alone, and with companion, the
pr0per method of entering and leaving a canoe
from float or pier; from beach.

3. \Vith companion, demonstrate good paddling
form, both sides, bow and stern.

4. Be able to tie and use properly: square knot,

208

As published and distributed by the

Jacksonville Recreation Department

bowline, two half-hitches, clovehitch.

Canoeist

Prerequisite: Pass novice test.

1. Explain emergency method of repairing a
one-inch hole through canvas and planking, using
such materials as would be in the repair kit of a
camping outfit and such as can ordinarily be found
on a camping trip.

2. Explain emergency method of repairing a
paddleshaft broken three inches above the blade-

3. Explain, giving reasons, what woods make
the best paddles and how long a bow paddle and
stem paddle should be.

4. In cruising-kneeling position, amidship, dem-
onstrate balance by rolling canoe rapidly from side
to side for thirty seconds without touching gun—
wales. Repeat in standing position. Repeat, seated
on seat or thwart.

5. Vault out of canoe without losing contact, in
deep water. Get aboard properly, without shipping

‘ RECREATION

water into the craft.

6. Fully dressed, capsize canoe in deep water
twenty-five yards from landing place. Get in
swamped canoe and hand—paddle to landing. Prop—
erly land and empty canoe without help.

7. With a companion (who is a competent
swimmer), launch canoe properly from pier or
shore; board it, taking stern position and com-
panion bow position. Using single-blade paddles,
paddle straight for 220 yards, make right circle
turn, then left “u” turn. Change paddling sides
and return to vicinity of start. Stop and then
execute right and left pivot turns.

8. Change places correctly while afioat and re-
peat test, candidate in bow, companion in stern.

9. Alone, in canoe without ballast, paddle a
straight course with double blade for 220 yards.
Execute right circle turn, then left “u” turn. Re—
turn to starting point, stop, execute a right pivot
turn and make proper landing.

IO. Repeat test number 9, paddling with single
blade. ‘

II. A companion (who is a competent swim-
mer) is calmly clinging to the bottom of a cap-
sized canoe. Alone, in a canoe, make the proper
rescue. Safeguard companion; rescue swamped
canoe, emptying it across gunwales of your canoe.
Launch and steady it while companion resumes his
place in it. '

I2. Demonstrate and explain uses of: “I”
stroke, bow stroke, bow rudder, crossbow rudder,
sculling, draw stroke, push—over, pull—over, 'sweep
stroke, backwater stroke, underwater stroke, “C”
stroke.

Master Canoeist

Prerequisite: Pass novice and canoeist tests.

I. Demonstrate and explain proper paddling
form: racing, single and double blade; cruising,
single and double blade.

2. Cruise at least 100 miles in one year, under
American Canoe Association rules, making the

For each test passed, the canoeist shall be
entitled to one chevron, orange in color, to
be placed on canoe or paddles. After the
third chevron is won, the interlocked letters
MC or the words Master Canoeist may be

placed below it; Chevrons should be six
inches by one inch for the canoe, four inches
by three—quarters of an inch for paddles.
Unauthorized use of this insignia is not per-
mitted at any time.

JULY 1949

 

 

A popular .summer sport, eanoeing requires skill and
care. Here enjoyed at Palisades Interstate Park.

following types of cruises, each of ten miles or
more: one man, single blade; one man, double
blade; two or more men, single blade; two or more
men, double blade; camping thirty-six hours or
more, carrying full equipment.

3. Swamp a canoe, shake it out and get aboard.

4. Effect the rescue of an apparently drowned
person, going overboard and retaining contact with
the canoe, getting him safely aboard canoe, and
demonstrating artificial respiration.

5. Explain the mechanics of paddling, covering
the advantages and disadvantages of each style——
on seat, one knee, two knees.

6. Describe, in writing, the various types of
paddling canoes, construction and characteristics.

7. Describe, in writing, the various types of
sailing canoes.

8. Know and define various terms applied to
canoes and sailing rigs.

9. Demonstrate ability to execute the following
maneuvers in a sailing canoe: getting underway,
sailing close—hauled, broad-reach, running, coming
about, jibing and landing.

IO. Write a brief history of canoeing.

II. Show knowledge of elementary navigation
-—map and chart reading; use of compass, sun and
stars for direction; knowledge of tides and cur-
rents, and so on.

I2. Satisfy examiners regarding general knowl—
edge of canoeing and ability to care for self, canoe
and companion under all circumstances, including
injury to anyone, through any further questions
or tests they may see fit to give.

‘209

Hostels

in England and Wales

HE YOUTH HOSTELS Association of England
Tand \Vales, which last year experienced the
busiest year in its history, is a line example of what
voluntary effort can achieve. Now the largest
youth hostel organization in the world, it consists
of 280 hostels and nearly a quarter of a million
members who, during 1948, spent over a million
nights in hostels. Although its growth has necessi—
tated a paid staff, most of the work is still done
voluntarily by members, who serve on committees,
as secretaries of local groups, as relief hostel war-
dens; operate information and sales services and
undertake decorating and repair work.

By providing accommodations to enable young
people of limited means to explore the countryside,
the YHA is fulfilling a real need. The value of its
work is recognized by the Ministry of Education,
which makes some grants towards the purchase
price of hostels. Even so, a large part of the price,
and the entire cost of maintenance, have to be met
from the Association’s funds. The management of
the hostels, achieved largely by voluntary service
and financed mainly by members, is not only a
tribute to the youth hostellers, but also a justifica—
tion of the faith of the pioneers who founded this
Association in 1930.

In 1948, the YHA’s main activity was hostel
development. The record membership, combined
with the acute shortage of housing and building
materials, presented a unique problem. Before the
war, the Association had over 10,000 beds for
83,000 members—about one bed for every eight
members. In 1947 there were only 12,000 beds for
nearly 190,000 members—one bed for every flf-
teen. In addition, there is an evergrowing stream
of hostellers from abroad.

The search for new hostels goes on unceasingly.

Mr. Trayuer, .rtaf member of tbe Youtb H ostelt A:-
tociatiou, but cburge of publication: and publicity.

210

Bernard Trayner

In each of the country’s nineteen hostel regions,
workers devote leisure hours to the inspection of
property. Nothing from a barn to a castle is over—
looked. This year twenty new hostels have been
opened, ranging from a village school in Devon—
shire to a Norman castle on the \Velsh border.
However, hostellers’ requirements are different
from those of school children or Norman barons,
and the purchase of a building is the signal for
large-scale changes and repairs, frequently under-
taken by voluntary labor. \Valls are knocked down
to make dining rooms; kitchens are equipped; ad-
ditional provision is made for washing and sanita-
tion facilities. So urgent is the need for hostels that
this year some were opened before alterations could
be completed, and the first visitors helped to pre-
pare the premises for later arrivals.

\Vorking parties do not confine their activities
to the Association’s hostels. Groups have visited
war-devastated countries in Europe to help other
associations make a new start. At home, volun-
teers have spent their holidays in clearing barbed
wire entanglements from cliff t0ps; others have
helped farmers with their harvesting; members in-
terested in forestry have helped the Forestry Com-
mission.

The YHA takes a special interest in preserving
the countryside. By every means - possible, the
need for considerate behavior is brought to the
notice of hostellers. The farmer has come to real—
ize that they need not be a menace, and hostellers
have learned that their playground—the country-
side——is also the countryman’s workshop.

The YHA of England and \Vales also finds time
for research into various aspects of hostel life and
administration. Such work, however, does not
cause members to lose sight of the fact that hostels
are not an end in themselves, but only the means
whereby young pe0ple can be encouraged to know,
love and care for the countryside.

RECREATION

Stephen S. Wise

THE WORLD GAINED immeasurably because of
the life and spirit of Stephen Samuel Wise,
whose recent passing was so widely mourned.
Stephen’s father, a Hungarian rabbi in Budapest,
had expressed a longing, at the time of Abraham
Lincoln’s death, to go someday to the land of the
great emancipator to live. This dream came true
when Stephen was one year old, the family set-
tling in this country in 1875.

At Columbia University Stephen Wise earned
his baccalaureate at eighteen years of age and his
doctorate at twenty-one. During his brilliant ca-
reer, honorary degrees were conferred upon him
by colleges and universities across the country.

After serving rabbinates for seven years in New
York City and six years in Portland, Oregon, Dr.
Wise returned to New York in 1907. Militant,
liberal and fearless in thought and action, he
founded the Free Synagogue in New York and
served as its rabbi until his death.

Where no organization existed to further a
cause that, in his judgment, was important and
right, he was ready to fight for the cause and to
help create a strong supporting organization. He
founded the Oregon State Conference of Charities
and Correction, the Eastern Council of Liberal
Rabbis, the Jewish Institute of Religion, and the
Near East Relief, and served as leader in many
organizations designed to help bring about better
relations between Jews and Christians. He helped
to found the Zionist movement and was one of
its great leaders. The recent establishment of the
State of Israel, for which he had labored long, and
faithfully, was particularly gratifying to him.

Dr. Wise was unalterably opposed to anything
that tended to deprive any child of his rights as
an individual. He served as Commissioner of Child
Labor in Oregon and as a trustee of the National
Child Labor Committee. In 1910, at the fourth
National Recreation Congress in Rochester, New
York, believing heartily in the recreation move-
ment, he spoke vigorously against exploitation of
children. In 1923 he was elected an honorary
member of the National Recreation Association, in
recognition of his strong moral support of this
movement, which serves individuals without ref-
erence, to their race, color or creed.

As the N ew York Times said of Dr. Wise edi—
torially, “A strong believer in one world, with jus-
tice for all peoples and races and faiths, he left his
mark on the history of our time.”

lULY 1949

   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
       
       
  

O Bathers naturally prefer a pool that is always sparkling
clean. That’s why it pays you to paint with RAMUC. RAMUC is a
special waterproof enamel that gives a gleaming tile-like finish
to concrete surfatesna finish that is easy to clean and to keep
clean—a finish that definitely discourages algae growth. No need
to paint every year, either! RAMUC lasts season after season
without blistering, peeling or fading—even under the strongest
sun. Available in 12 attractive colors.

Keep water sparkling, too!

Eliminate unsightly algae and slime with EXALGAE, a marvelous
new liquid by the makers of RAMUC. EXALGAE not only destroys
algae but prevents further growth! It’s colorless, odorless, will
not stain pool finishes nor irritate the skin or eyes.

For complete information about these proflt-building prod-
ucts —- plus helpful hints on pool maintenance — write for
“Swimming Pool Handbook.” It’s freel

Ramuo—Exalgae, Registered Trademarks

INERTOL CO., INC.

480 Frelinghuysen Avenue I9 South Park
Newark 5, N. J. San Francisco 7, Calif.

          
   

 
3 «(adage-:62)
WWW???

  
 
 

  
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

    
 

4b __ ’ -;-;-

.. i f T. 

‘ "t-w '

' l I First Choice
for

fuery Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

0 o O
n m
nr I‘ll/£57 nv nu- ru'zo .I'
MANUFAC‘IUIING COM?ANY 5". tools 3. MO.

,.
ri—{99‘Il to 957.,

r 8-" ' "kw,"

   
       

211

Sm te News No $65

The Governor of \Vashington on May 31 called
the first meeting for the formation of the Inter-
Agency Council for Recreation. A committee of
three was chosen to perfect the organization. At
the next meeting, each state department will pre-
sent a description of what it is doing in recreation
at the present time.

At a meeting of the executive committee of the
Minnesota Governor’s Advisory Recreation Com-
mittee, it was decided that a bill should be pre-
sented to the 1951 legislature for the creation of
a state recreation commission, to be set up to de-
vise ways and means of carrying on the state con-
sultant service; to look into the possibilities of
establishing demonstration county systems of rec-
reation ; to make provision for the Governor's
Advisory Committee to remain in existence and
for its executive committee to continue active.

California and \Vashington legislatures have
made substantial appropriations for recreation dur-
ing their current sessions. In California, $88,799
have been appropriated for the California Recrea-
tion Commission for the next fiscal year. \Vash—
ington’s Park and Recreation Commission appro-
priation for the next biennium includes approxi—
mately $80,000 for recreation consultant service.
Also, \Vashington again appropriated funds for the
Office of Public Instruction’s extensive program of
state aid to school districts for community recrea-
tion programs, amounting to $250,000 for the bi-
ennitnn.

The Michigan Inter-Agency Council on Recrea-
tion is working on a study of recreation services
of the various member agencies of that group.
The actual work is being done by a graduate stu-
dent at Michigan State College, who presents reg-
ular progress reports to the Council for discussion.
At a recent meeting, the secretary reported sev-
eral examples of the coordination of services
through the council. He told of several instances
where requests for service had been channeled to
the appropriate department. All communities ask-
ing for assistance have been accommodated.

212

A concurrent resolution has been passed by both
the senate and the general assembly in New Jer—
sey, creating a commission to investigate and re-
port to the legislature on the recreation needs of
the state.

The Pennsylvania State Planning Board has is-
sued a recreation manual for communities in that
state which are attempting to solve their commu-
nity recreation problems. A digest of state laws
has also been compiled.

A community activity specialist has been em—
ployed by the Agricultural Extension Service in
Arkansas. He will give full time to recreation.

The California Recreation Commission has com-
piled and published “Laws Relating to Recrea—
tion.” The commission has tried to bring together,
in a single volume, an abridgement of the general
state and federal laws and the codes relating to
recreation in California. It has also recommended
to the governor the formation of an “Inter-gov—
ernmental Committee on Recreation,” to be com-
posed of representatives of all federal and state
agencies with recreation functions in California.
Purposes cited by the commission include estab-
lishing channels for consultation and exchange of
information relating to recreation programs for
communities, determining problems and services
that may need the attention of the various agen-
cies, and establishing cooperative projects, when
necessary, involving coordinated services of two
or more agencies.

In the appropriation bill for the Department of
Labor and the Federal Security Agency for the
fiscal year beginning July I, 1950, there is an item
of $1,000,000 for grants to state and interstate
agencies for research and surveys on prevention
and control of water pollution. An additional
$1,300,000 is provided for stafiing headquarters
oliices, for a laboratory for necessary research, and
for staliing fourteen basin offices organized on a
major watershed basis.

RECREATION

Harry M. Hooker

HARRY M Ix HOOKER died in Niagara Falls, New
York, on April 9 at the age of seventy—six.
M r. Hooker, an honorary member of the National
Recreation Association, was the recently—retired
chairman of the board of the Hooker Electrochem-
ical Company.

Prominent in industrial affairs in his native New
York state and throughout the country, he was
very active in banking, public utilities and civic
affairs in Niagara Falls. Although constantly under
pressure because of his many business and profes-
sional interests, he remained ever alert to the call
of a social conscience which kept him active in
many good works. Those fortunate enough to
work with him from time to time, on projects of
mutual interest, always came away impressed by
the kindliness of his spirit and the breadth of his
vision in organization and planning.

Always interested in reports of the National
Recreation Congresses, and particularly in them—
dustrial section, Mr. Hooker also welcomed any
word of pr0gress in public recreation, either in his

home city or in other parts of the country. He
was enthusiastic about the Association and spoke
of its work as “important and useful.” He contrib—

uted personally toward its support from year to
year, and in Niagara Falls helped as a volunteer
in securing linancial support for the national work.

.,.,..-«.".

Successful execution of plays, even  eXp‘erts, depends largely, upon balance—.9; the even

g distribution or weight or'a ban.

Balan¢e. resulting fro,n ‘sgjentitic research and skillful mgulding, is angther .3651; by
TeSt” was” f~°~r Specifying Win‘ark- 0330131 in Weight. shape and’sizef—yqa’ll' find: theta

.I

_, .. beautiful. well balanCed and TOP PERFQRMERSin play.- and if! warmer
our rue QE_$I—GET rue most Eon Yong mojglsv-

AMERICA‘S FOREMOST ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

WEAVER WINTARK SALES co.  “If

JULY 1949

 

Vandalism.

ARK AND RECREATION leaders throughout the
Pcountry are continuously faced with the prob-
lem of vandalism. This problem is not confined to
any particular type‘ of park area, but is present
from the small city square to the national park
area. In general, the destruction and defacement
of park and recreation pr0perty is caused by
thoughtlessness. Part of it, however, is the result
of maliciousness and, to a lesser degree, theft.

Efforts to combat vandalism follow three lines:
design and construction, policing, and more effec-
tive conservation education.

A number of communities, in designing new
areas or redesigning old ones, try to arrange for
the location of active-use areas at the edges of
larger park areas, so that children and youths can
find outlets for their energy without going very
far into the park area itself. Much of the damage
to buildings’ interiors is reduced by a type of i11-
terior wall construction which. makes writing and
carving diHicult, if not impossible. Good lighting
also contributes to the reduction of. vandalism,
particularly in comfort stations and locker rooms.
Some places have special post or wall panels for
those who must carve or write.

Policing is essential to curb the serious malié
cious damage and theft. Most park leaders agree
that special park police are most effective in meet-
ing vandalism as well as other law enforcement
programs in park areas. City police departments
too often assign too few men—with many of the
few from among_the older and less effective offi-
cers available. Then, too, other demands for po-
lice service put park needs in the background.

The chief reliance of park and recreation execu-
tives is on educationh—beginning with the educa:
tion of children and youth in school. This basic
conservation program, carried on intensively in a
number of states, is supplemented by special pro-
grams in connection with nature trails and mu-
seums, nature guide service, radio programs and
newspaper and magazine articles. One type of
publicity, however, has proved harmful rather than
helpfulh—that given to acts of vandalism committed
locally. Articles of this kind frequently are fol—
lowed by temporary Waves of vandalism.

Another effeCtive way of reducing this problem

214

in neighborhood recreation areas is through the
activities of neighborhood recreation councils and
parents’ groups. Youth "participation in program
planning is also important in deve10ping a sense
of personal reSponsjbility for the care of the areas
and facilities in which the activities are carried out.

In Newark, New Jersey, for example, an alert
community director enlisted the interest of the
“Lily White Gang”—-which formerly had been the
source of vandalism and rioting—and gave them_
positions of leadership in the program. One night,
the police department called the community center
director and said that he had the leader of this
gang. At two o’clock in the morning, the commu-
nity center director went down to the center for
his records, which showéd that all members of the
gang were actively engaged in community center
activities at the time the recent police trouble had
taken place. The group was freed and, from that
time on, they have been model leaders in the
neighborhood, and protectors of all property and
activities concerned with the center.

In a Michigan state park, the ofiicials have set
aside a “rumpus area” where peOple may chop,
destroy and give vent to whatever it is that makes
them want to tear things down. .

In one area in New York City, a lot of mark-
ings and other forms of vandalism ceased when
the swimming pool was opened.

Around one community center in Chicago,
where vandalism had been rampant, the leader
brought in the gang, asked for their ideas in terms '
of program, and then gave them paint and tools
to restore the community center. He also co-
Operated with them in laying out the recreation
area, giving them the responsibility of protecting
the newly laid out fields and newly decorated cen-
ter. From then on, the rules were not only obeyed,
but strictly enforced by these boys themselves.

In Plainfield, New Jersey, the recreation direc-
tor, a social worker and a psychiatrist studied the
list of boys and girls who seemed to have a pre-
disposition to juvenile delinquency. They were
carefully integrated into the recreation program,
and all conCerned seem to feel that this effort has
been particularly worthwhile in checking potential
juvenile delinquents.

RECREATION

metz’on Mu): ‘

Bequest for Parks and Play Areas

$500,000 TRUST fund, to be used for the devel-
opment of park and reéreation areas in Ports-

mouth, New Hampshire, has been created under”

the will of the late Miss Josie Fitts Prescott. Born
in Portsmouth, the former school teacher, who
, died in January at the age of ninety—one, had in-
herited fortunes from both her brother and sister.

The trustees of the half-million dollar fund are
fully empowered to develop an area designated by
Miss Prescott, and within five years must offer
to convey the deeds to the city. During her life-
time she had financed the development of this par-
ticular park and recreaton area in which she was
greatly interested. Waldo R. Hainsworth, New
England district representative of the National
Recreation Association, is keeping in touch with
city ofhcials in the planning of the project.

Recent Appointment

FRANK L. BRIINCKHORST, who was recently ap-
pointed executive secretary of the American
Institute of Park Executives, replacing Dave
Hovey, is carrying on his duties in the Institute’s
newly opened Chicago office at 30 North LaSalle
Street.

Prior to taking this position, Mr. Brunckhorst
was publicity manager for Bendix Home Appli—
ances at South Bend, Indiana, for more than three
years. A journalism graduate of the University of
Wisconsin, he was city hall reporter and an edi-
torial writer for the Gary, Indiana, Post-Tribune
for twelve years. His experience also includes four
years of high school teaching and a period as night
editor of the Dubuque, Iowa, Telegraph-Herald.

Recreation and Psychiatry

P.\RKS AND RECREATION can play a large part in
the preventive aspects of psychiatry and pro-
vide normal, healthy outlets for the stresses and
pressures of modern living, according to Dr. John
McMahon of the Mayo Clinic in his talk before
the delegates at the Mid-Continent Regional Park
and Recreation Conference in Rochester. He
pointed out that park and recreation activities give

JULY 1949

 

what psychiatrists call outlets for aggression and
the opportunity for healthy identification.

Dr. McMahon explained that an outlet for ag-
gression is that desire, on the part of an individual
who has developed internal tension, to “murder”
the tennis ball or to hit a golf ball with all his
might. Healthy identification means that tendency
on the part ofnyoung people to identify themselves
with someone they admire. This can extend to the
point where a young man or woman will try to
dress or wear her hair the way some adult leader
or teacher does. Thus, he stressed, those who deal
with young people have an important responsibil-
ity in directing their energies into proper channels.

Honored for Service

JUNE 21 WAS celebrated as Arch Flannery Day
in Battle Creek, Michigan, honoring the popu-
lar recreation director and his thirty years of con-
tinued service, and also marking the thirtieth year
of organized recreation in the community.
Highlight of the occasion was the presentation
of a remembrance to show how much his work has
been appreciated in the city. Mr. Flannery was
also presented a book filled with letters of con-
gratulation from friends and associates, signatures
of hundreds of Battle Creek citizens, and other
memories of the occasion. This ceremony was held
in Bailey Park, preceding an evening recreation~

baseball game, and following a dinner held in
Arch’s honor.

PORTABLE STEEL
BLEACHERS AND
GRANDSTANDS

The. safe and economical
solution for your outdoor
and indoo‘r seating prob-

Ier‘ns. ’ Our engineering
staff is 'at your service
without cost .or obliga-
tion to you.

,FREE

Write for illustrated folder
‘ and prices today.

Hussey Mfg. (20.,r Inc. 0 486 R. R. St. 0 N. Berwick, Maine

Also manufacturers of “Laughing Loon” Water Sports Equipment

 

215

Books Received

 

An Index to Folk Dances and Singing Games—.Sup-
plement. American Library Association, Chicago,

Illinois. $1.25. .
Bag of Fire, The, by Fan Kissen. Houghton leiiin
Company, Boston, Massachusetts. $1.80.

Bits That Grow Big, by Irma E. Webber. William
_R. Scott, New York. $1.50.

Compilation of Laws Relating to Recreation. State of
California Recreation Commission, Sacramento.

Design for Tennis, by Mary K. Browne. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $3.00.

Field of Recreation, The, by \Valter L. Stone. \Vil-
Ham-Frederick Press, New York. $1.00.

420 Handcrafts Illustrated in Simple Steps, by Gloria
' Foreman. Gloria Foreman Publishing Company,
418 N. ‘3’. Third Street, Oklahoma City, Okla-
homa. $1.98; discount on twenty—four or more.

Fun in the Water, by Thomas Kirk Cureton, Jr. As-
sociation Press, New York. $4.00.

 

 

 
   

  

555

HAN DBALLS CHAMPIONSHIP

BALL

 

The SEAMLESS 555 is true and fast—has more life
and staying power than any other ball made! Used
in all major tournaments, including the National
A.A.U. Used in millions of match games. Preferred
everywhere by champions—the most critical judges
of quality and value! (For the faster practice hand-
ball, specify SEAMLESS 556.)

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1877

 

 
   

Amunc GOODS DIVISION *‘

ll'l
I'I-IE SEAMIEES RHEBER IIIMIIAHY 6‘
NEW HAVEN a, coma, u.s.A. 4"

216

Jerry Goes to Camp, by Albert M. Brown. Bloch

Publishing Company, New York. $1.75.
Lettering. Higgins Ink Company, Brooklyn, New

York. $1.00. '
Little Golden Book Series—What Am I? by Ruth

Leon; Nursery Rhymes; Our Puppy, by Elsa

Ruth Nast. Simon and Schuster, New York. $.25
each.

Marine’s Legacy, A. by Grayson D. \Villiams. \Vil-
liam-Frederick Press, New York. $1.00.

Modern Dance; Techniques and Teaching, by Ger-
trude Shurr and Rachael Dunaven Yocom. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $3.75.

Mouse’s House, by Kathryn and Byron Jackson.
Simon and Schuster, New York. $1.00.

New Television, The Magic Screen, by Raymond F.
Yates. Didier Publishers, New York. $2.75.
Outdoors Guide of Deep—River Jim. Didier Publish-

ers, New York. Paper, $1.95; cloth, $2.50.

Papercraft, by Joseph Leeming. J. P. Lippincott
Company, Philadelphia. $2.50.

Paper Sculpture, by Tadeusz Lipski. Studio Publica-
tions, New York. $1.50.

Planning—1948. American Society of Planning Ofii-
cials. Chicago, Illinois.

Public Relations Committee, The—Why and How it
Works, by David M. Church. National Publicity
Council, New YOrk. $1.00.

Public Welfare Director, 1949, The. American Pub—
lic \Velfare Association, Chicago, Illinois. $3.50.

Rural Recreation for America, by Charles J. Vettiner.
Armory Building, Louisville, Kentucky. $3.75.

School Health Education, by Delbert Oberteuffer.
Harper and Brothers, New York. $3.25.

This Game of Golf, by Henry Cotton. Charles Scrib-
ner’s Sons, New York. $10.00.

Tiny Nonsense Stories, by Dorothy Kunhardt. Simon
and Schuster, New York. $1.00.

Many Models of Diamond
Otticial Pitching Shoes

otter tans a wide selection.
Drop forged from high

grade steel—‘will not chip
or break. Carefully bal-

anced.

Write for information about a complete lino
of pitching shoes, courts and accessories

DIAMOND

CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|4 Grand Avenue Duluth, Minnesota

 

RECREATION

Recently Received Containing Articles of Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

Understanding Young Children, by Dorothy W. Ba-

ruch; Understanding Children’s Behavior, by Fritz’

Redl; Discipline, by James L. Hymes, Jr. Parent-
Teacher Series, Bureau of Publications, Teachers
College, Columbia University, New York. $.60 each.
Stuttering, by Charles Van Riper. National Society
for Crippled Children and Adults, 11 S. LaSalle
Street. Chicago, Illinois. $.35.
.Scholastic Coach, April 1949
Maintenance of the Outdoor Plant, George T.
Bresnahan.
Simplified First Aid. Dr. Henry F. Donn.
Park Maintenance, April 1949
Concrete for Beauty as Well.
Dust Control in Parks and Playgrounds.
Sociology and Social Research, March-April 1949
Comic Books and Juvenile Delinquency, Thomas
Ford Hoult. '
Beach and Pool, April 1949
Can Your Child Learn How to Swim? Clifford
Kascle. .
Layout of Typical Pool.
Control of Alkalinity in Swimming Pool Water,
R. N. Perkins.
Public Recreation in Rochester. City Planning Com-
mission, Rochester, New York.
Parents’ Magazine, April 1949
Our Town Got a Play School Plus, Jean Reiman.
Safety Education, April 1949
Swim in Patrolled Waters—Why?
Journal of Health, Physical Education and Recreation,

April 1949
Child Growth and Development Characteristics
and Needs.
Teaching Archery with Audio-Visual Aids, Elvera
Skubic.

Recreation is Therapy, Stanley R. Gabrielsen.
The Folk Dance Federation, Walter Grothe.
How We Do It.

Camping Magazine, April 1949
Trip Programs Need Planning, Roland H. Grader.
Practical-Versatile-Flexible Cabin, Nelson Dan-

gremond.

Be Prepared for Polio, Hart C. Van Riper.
Protect Your Camp Against Erosion, Ray C. Bas-

sett.

01(1:tdoor Canoe Storage Racks, American Red
ross.

A Short History of Camping, III, Gerald P.
Burns.

Parks and Recreation, April 1949
Parks and People, Tom Wallace.
Metered Mail Slogans for Parks.
Not Parks or Schools but Parks and Schools.
Shuffleboard—National Pastime of the “Oldsters,”
Nash Higgins.
Early Swimming in Milwaukee County, Warner
E. Bartram.
Maintenance Mart.
Junior League Magazine, April 1949
“Art Is Swell.” Henrietta Sharon Aument.
Horizon in the Cultural Field. '
Wherever There Are People, Alfred Wallace.
NEA Journal, April 1949
Developing Love of Leisure Reading, Bessie Kib-
bey Lacy.
National Parent-Teacher, May 1949
The High Act of Belonging, Exclusive and Inclu-
sive Memberships, Bonaro W. Overstreet.
Washington Polls Young Moviegoers.
Parks and Recreation, May 1949
Bronx Children’s Zoo Opens Ninth Season.

JULY 1949

Comparative Figures on ' Milwaukee Swimming
Pools, Warner E. Bartram.
Maintenance Mart.

Safety Education, May 1949
Touchball or Not? George W. Haniford.
Bows and Arrows, C. N. Hickman.

Education for Peace, by Per G. Stensland. Film Coun-
cil of America, 6 West Ontario Street, Chicago 10,
Illinois.

Parties with Purpose. Dennisdn, 300 Howard Street,
Fra‘mingham, Massachusetts. $.25.

Fun and Folk Songs. The Westminster Press, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

Fishing North Carolina’s Coast, by Bill Sharpe. Ma-
rina Publishing House, Wilmington, North Caro—
lina. $.25.

Tourist Handbook of North Carolina. The Collins

.. Company, Wilmington, North Carolina. $.25.

The Boys’ Work Committee in the YMCA. Associa-
tion Press, New York. $.75.

Report Number 2985—Revues and Maintenance Costs
of Municipal Stadiums and Athletic Fields. Confer-
ence of Mayors, 6 Elk Street, Albany, New York.

Planning Your Exhibit, by Janet Lane and Beatrice K.
Tolleris. National Publicity Council for Health and
Welfare Services, 130 East 22 Street, New York 10.
$1.00. ~

Age Will Be Served. Brooklyn Council for Social
Planning, 72 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn 2. $.50.

Arts and Crafts for Camps and Other Recreational
Groups. Arts C00perative Service, 340 Amsterdam
Avenue, New York 24. $.25.

Twenty-four Pages for Parents, by Jean Schick Gross-
man. Play Schools Association, 119. West 57 Street,
New York '19. $.35.

Reading Is Fun, by Roma Gans. Parent—Teacher
Series, Bureau of Publications, Teachers College,
Columbia University, New York. $.60.

Fundamental Education. U. S. Oiiice of Education,
gparernment Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.

The Phi Delta Kappan, April 1949

Give the People a Chance to Play, Jackson M.
Anderson, Ph.D. '
Beach and Pool, May 1949
Painting the Pool. ‘
Pool Markings; Competitive Pool.
Extending Education, May 1949 0
Extending Education through Campin .

Lighting for Sports and Recreation, by Kir M. Reid
and A. F. Nies. General Electric Lamp Department,
Nila Park, Cleveland 12, Ohio. $.45.

List of Selected Recordings for Teaching Dance. Serv-
ice Committee on Recordings for Dance, American
Association for Health, Physical Education and Rec-
reat(i:on, 1201 Sixteenth Street NW, Washington,
D. . '1 .

Golf Events. National Golf Foundation. 407 South.
Dearborn Street, Chicago 5, Illinois. $.20.

Recommended Equipment and Supplies for Nursery,
Kindergarten, Primary and Intermediate Schools.
Association for Childhood Education International,
$2080 Fifteenth Street NW, Washington 5, D. C.

.

Hygeia, June 1949 -

Death in the Ring, Thomas Gorman.
They Play to Learn, F. Hall Roe.
American City, June 1949 . ' I
Municipally Sponsored Dramatics Contests Can
Be Successful, Richard T. Torkelson.
Michigan City’s International Friendship Gardens,
Joseph B. Smith.

217

218

IT CAN BE DONE
. . . but don’t try it!

 

Sometimes it’s possible to break all the
rules—and get away with it.

The famous Tower of Pisa, for instance,
has successfully defied both sound engi-

neering practice and the law of gravity for
over 800 years.

But for most of us, most of the time, the
rules hold.

That is particularly true when it comes
to saving money.

The first rule of successful saving is
regularity . . . salting away part of every
pay check, month after month.

Once in a blue moon, of course, you’ll
come across someone who can break that
rule and get away with it. But the fact is
that most of us cannot.

For most of us, the one and only way to
accumulate a decent-size nest egg for the
future and for emergencies is through reg-
ular, automatic saving.

In all history there’s never been an
easier, surer, more profitable way to save
regularly than the U. S. Savings Bond way.

Those of us on a payroll are eligible to
use the wonderful Payroll Savings Plan.
The rest of us can use the equally wonder-
ful Bond—A-Month Plan through our local
bank. -

Use whichever is best for you. But—use
one of them!

AUTOMATIC SAVING
IS SURE SAVING—
U. S. SAVINGS BONDS

Contributed by this magazine in co-operatzbn mm; the 'l
.Magazine Publishers of America as a public Service. '

-;-. y. *  “3;:
O .. <_~

   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

RECREATION

 

Plastics for the Beginner .,

By Frank A. Staples. National Recreation Asso—
ciation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.

$1.50.
,FRANK STAPLES, WHO is in charge of- arts and
crafts for the National Recreation Associa-

tion, has prepared this manual to provide for rec-
reation leaders and crafts teachers, in simplified
form, instructions for the handling of this new
and popular material. Although plastic has been
used for some years, for most of us it is new be-
cause it has not been easily obtainable until lately.

In introducing this new material in his work,
Mr. Staples has found that most books on the sub-
ject have been too highly technical for the be—
ginner, and have tended to deal with projects re-
quiring involved or expensive equipment. After
experimentation of his own, therefore, he presents
here a series of twenty-three simple projects which
require only the use of simple tools, many of which
can be bought at an ordinary hardware store or at
the dime store, as well as general instructions for
the handling of plastics. ’

The projects include the making of such things I
as a variety of dishes, a napkin ring and bracelet,
candlesticks, tie clasps, picture frames, trays,

boxes, lapel pins, a desk set, flower vases. Direc- o
tions for each are given step by step, and clarified ,_

by the use of explanatory sketches. Without ques-_
tion, the manual will' be of help to individuals,’

groups and leaders who wish to try their hand'
with this material. '

Design for Tennis

BY MalI'y'K. Browne. A. .S. Barnes and Com?
Pany, Inc., New._York. $3.00. 

' MARY K. BROWNE has been three times National
Singles Champion, five times National Ladies
Doubles Champion of the Unifed_States, as well

I;

I ULY 1949. '

New Publications

' Covering the
Leisure Time Field '_

as \NimbledongLadies Doubles Champion of Eng-
land and twice captain of the International Wight-
mari Cup Team. In addition, she is also a fine
teacher, and since 1926 has coached teams at sev-
eral colleges, schools, and camps. Her book is es-
sentially a textbook for other teachers of the sport,
emphasizing the method and procedure for instruc-
tion. She believes that tennis is a game of indi-
vidual skill and, therefore, that it. is necessary to
develop a teaching method whereby the rudiments
of the game can be. taught in classes or to small ~
groups, in schools or on the playgrounds.

However, since Design for Tennis gives' such
detailed information on tennis strokes, the racquet,
placements‘and strategy, control, and the like, the
individual player and the beginner will also find
this book very valuable. Many pictures and
sketches have been. provided to clarify each tech-
nical point, and the sequence pictures leave noth=
ing to the imagination since the stroke’can be fol-
lowed from beginning to end. ,Mary K. Browne
proves very ably that good strokes happen not by
accident, but by odesign. "

Introduction to Community Recreation

By George D. Butler. VMcGraw-Hill Book Com—
pany, New York. $4.50. ° __ _ ~ -.

“BIGGER AND BET'IT‘ER” may be an overworked '
e'xpreSsion,‘but never could these two words
he .more adequately applied than to the new edi-
tion of George Butler’s Introduction to Commn-a
nity Recreation.

Following very closely the make-up of the orig-
inal edition, which'was so enthusiastically.received
in 19'40, Mr. Butler has distributed, throughout
the chapters, additions, regarding new philos0phies
of recreation, facts about the increase in leisure
time and the disposition of the same. Of special
interest and concern are the organization, admin-

219

istration and financing of recreation departments.

The book almost takes on the nature of an en-
cyclopedia—a more helpful handbook could not be
wished for by any profession. It deals with the
“why” and “how” and not just with the “what.”_
It offers rich bibliographies on the various leisure-
time interests, activities and hobbies of people—
which alone would make the book worthwhile.

The book can serve as a good text for the ever
increasing college and university courses in recre-
ation. Also, any progressive recreation depart-
ment, as well as any private recreation agency,
can ill afford to be without it. However, not only
those professionally interested will find it helpful.
Men and women in political life, laymen interested
in municipal welfare, high school and college stu-
dents, will flnd a wealth of useful material in the
volume. It should have a place on the shelves of
every recreation department, school and public
library.-—Dorothy Enderis. Former Assistant to
.S‘upcriutcudcnt, Department of ilquicipal Recrea-

tiou and Adult Education, IlIilwaulcee Public
Schools.

Recreation Is F1111

By Esther M. Hawley. American Theatre \Ving,
New York. $1.00.

THE AMERICAN THEATRE Wing probably is best
known for its Stage Door Canteen, plus its six
sister canteens in the United States and two over-
Seas, so popular during the last war. Its committee
for military hospitals, however, has never received
much publicity, because of a self-imposed ban.

The hospital program deve10ped slowly, based
on fundamental beliefs worked out carefully by
actual experience. Each program, regardless of its
nature, was planned to provide some form of par-
ticipation and was built around a theme. The ma-
terial in this attractive handbook on hoSpital rec-
reation and entertainment has been tried, and it

has worked. Early chapters on the background

and the principles developed are certainly worth
careful study.

The manual includes completely organized pro-
grams for ward and auditorium parties in one sec-
tion. In another section, the program material is
broken down to fit the needs of special types of
wards and patients—orthopedic, traction, para-
plegia, heart, tuberculosis, and many other cases.
Even if you do not work in a hOSpital, the game,
quiz and stunt material here would be wonderful
for community night programs, neighborhood par-
ties and teen-age programs!

220

The Pleasure Chest

By Helen and Larry Eisenberg. Parthenon Press,
Nashville, Tennessee. Paper bound, $.75; in
boards, $1.25.

HELEN AND LARRY Eisenberg have compiled a
new and excellent book of recreation ideas
based on their own experience and that of dozens
of other leaders who have contributed practical
ideas that have been tried and found successful.
Both authors have been active in recreation work
for some time—Helen iii local churches and the
“Y”, Larry as recreation staff member for the
Youth Department of the Methodist General
Board of Education.

Their book not only lists parties, party'games,
active and inactive games. skits and stunts, crafts,
suggestions for family fun, music and musical
games, but it also gives you some cues for finding
the right thing for the right situation. It was
planned to provide an inexpensive resource for
leadership courses, clubs, churches, picnic groups,
party planning, Sunday evening fellowship groups,
camps. It could be useful in providing fun for
servicemen’s groups, elderly groups—any groups.

You will be interested to know that, in buying
it, you will be contributing to a good piece of work.
Larry writes us: “\Ve had a lot of fun, my wife
and I, working on this. The idea is that the Na-
tional Conference of Methodist Youth is publish-
ing it and all they clear on it above costs will be
put into a fund to help the situation of displaced
persons, on a non—sectarian basis.”

 

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

PAUL MOORE, JR., First Vice-PreSIdent

MRS. OGDEX L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice'PreSident and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer '
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, MaSS.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, W'ashington, D. C.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER. Jacksonville, Fla.
\VILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P- DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRAST, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, W'aSh.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. chxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. I., N. Y.
SUSAx M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, W'oodbury, N. Y.

PAUL MoORE, JR., New York, N. Y.

MRS. SIGHUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif-
GRANT TITSWOR‘I‘H, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. \VALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. \VARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

E. T. A’l‘TWELL
Organization and
Admlnlstratlon

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

JAMES MADISON

Organization and
Administration

F RANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

July and September, 1949

Hampton, Virginia*
July 11-22

Bastrop, Louisiana
September 26—30

Hampton. Virginia*
July 11-15

Montgomery, Alabama'lL
July 18-23

Grimm, Georgia
September 5-9

Clovis, New Mexico
September 26-30

Hampton, Virginia*
July 11~August 19

Amsterdam, New York
July 5-8

Pittsiield, Massachusetts

July 14-15
:3

Hampton, Virginia*
July 18-29

Dr. W. M. Cooper, Director, Summer Study, Hampton
Institute.

W. C. Hohmann, Secretary and Treasurer, BastrOp
Recreation Committee, BastrOp High School.

0,

r.

Dr. \V. M. Cooper, Director, Summer Study, Hamp-
ton Institute.

Dr. E. Councill Trenholm, President, State Teachers
College.

Senator Albert G. Swint, Orchard Hill. Georgia.

Miss Martha S. Smith, Housing Authority of the City
of Clovis.

Dr. W. M. Cooper, Director, Summer Study, Hamp—
ton Institute.

Alex H. Isabel, Recreation Commission

Jackson J. Perry, Superintendent, Parks and Recrea-
tion, 52 School Street.

Dr. \V. M. Cooper, Director, Summer Study, Hamp-
ton Institute.

* A part of the summer school program at Hampton Institute.

TA part of the summer school program at State Teachers College.

 

The schedules for National Recreation Association training specialists are being
worked out now for the 1949-50 season. Some of the schedules are already filled
as far ahead as December. Requests for training assistance, which is made available
at actual cost, should be sent in immediately to Charles E. Reed, Manager, Field
Department, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
New York. Mr. Reed will also be very glad to send further information about any
of these training people.

Porter Basketball Backstops are,

a I

        

2 a
6"?-

 2.9;»

 

PORTER NO. 2t2-WS window span type of backstop is an
ingenious adaptation used where building truss construction
will not permit installation of a suspended-and-braced type
of backstop.

To be completely satisfactory and safe, basket-
ball backstOps must be planned and designed
by peOple with Specialized engineering know-
how. Building conditions vary widely, and every
backstOp installation varies accordingly.

Porter engineers are equal to any backstOp
problem, no matter how specialized. They can
draw upon a vast storehouse of knowledge
gained through several generations of serving
the nation's leading schools, universities, clubs
and stadiums.

Why don't you let Porter engineers advise and
help you, without cost or obligation, of course?
Usually, stock models from Porter's complete line
can meet your exact requirements, and save you

I _ money. If your building is in the drawing board
place worn, out-dated rectangular banks Wltt'l the new . . .
all-steel official Porter fan-shaped bank. Formed from Stage! It '5 “"58 to talk GbOUl bGCkSIOPS now! and
a single sheet of steel to a flawlessly smooth face with avoid problems and disappointments later.

a deep-rolled periphery, and scientifically braced for     

permanent, rigid service.

 

NO. 237-3 BANK with

NO. 210-3 GOAL and Net

 

FREE CATALOG GLADLY SENT. Now is the time to re-

    

PORTER CAN SUPPLY YOUR EVERY BACKSTOP AND GYM EQUIPMENT NEED

THE J.  , CORPORATION
_ OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS 0F PIAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM‘AND SWIMMING POOI. EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM$ Elf-LT’E'TNUiE
Reg. U. S- Pal. Off.

 

A

