 

Contents

 

September 1949

You Remember (editorial), Goblin Night in Utah, Jessie Scllolield. . 300
Howard Brancher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Halloween Treasure Hunt,
An Approach to Recreation Planning, Daphne Darling Stern . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3‘01
Heriot Clifton Hutchins . . . . . . . . . . . 271
Play for the Hospitalized Child,
God’s Highway, Nathan L. Mallison . . . . . 276 E. Rita Davidson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Music with their Meals, Lili Foldes. . . . . 277 Ernest Ten Eyck Attwell . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
How to Win Birds and be Influenced Appeal to the Volunteer,
People, llildred Stevenson . . . . . . . . . 279 Bladeline Dane Ross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
People in Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282 College Association Formed,
Garrett G. Eppley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 314

The Place of Recreation in the Total Col-

lege Curriculum—A College President
Looks at the Problem, Paul M. Limbert 283  Featues

. _ World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
31st National Recreation Congress
7 -' 9 . .—
At 101". Senlc'e ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' .' ' . ' ' ‘ ‘ ' ‘ ‘ “8‘3 Magazmes and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . 31;)
Congress Speaker; Apprec1atlon . . . . 28¢
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 316
Recreation Centers for Rural Youth—A
' 9 a 9 . . . .
Cl“ or a Gnal' Car 01 M' Larron‘ ' ' ' ' ‘88 Recreatlon Tramlng Institutes . . . .

Inside Back Cover

How to Publicize Your Swimnling Pool,

C. E. Daubert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
PICTURE CREDITS: ‘We are indebted for photographs to:
. . . 9 9 Terry and Amos, Santa Barbara, California, page 273: Reading,
Tr avellng EXhll)ll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~9— Penn-531! ania, Department of Recreation, page 275: U. 5. Fish

and Wildlife Service and Donald B. Hyde, pages 279-282; Uni-
versity of Michigan New! Service, page: 283-285: State Conser-
vation Commission, Des Moines, Iowa. center spread: Squire-
Haskins. Dallas, Texas. page 294; Children’s Hospital of Boston.

The Storv of American Cities in Recrea—
' Massachusetts, page 304.

tion—Part IV—Dallas, Texas, Lillian

 

    
  
   
   
 

Schwertz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 295
Home. run'.’ Baseball has its “ins” and
0“ “outs” as this young player has dis-e0“-
-. _‘ . . _ {e cred.
Suggestions for Promotlng Hallo“ een gave;- phuoguph “3mg, 0; De, Mme,

Register and Tribune.

Parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
216011 of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y-; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Rederr’ Gable. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Posr OEce in New York, New York, under Ac: of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of posrage
provided for in Senion 1103, Ac: of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyring 19-59, by Ike National Renewing Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN mE U. S. A.

VOLUME Bonn-THREE, NUMBER 51x PRICE 35 CENTS ea- '8

 

Recreation

September 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

Editorial

YOU REMEMBER

0U REMEMBER the watercress you found your-
Yself by the stream, the chestnuts, hickory 'nuts,
' walnuts, butternuts, the tiny beechnuts you gathered
in the fall after the frosts, the sassafras root, the
blueberries, the elderberries, the wild gooseberries
with their thorns.

You remember the smells—in the woods, in the
swamps, in the pasture, by the seashore, where the
.wild roses grew, or the little island just thick with
violets, the smell of the clam bake, the smell of the
woods fire, the smell of the bayberry you ground up
in your hands. P

You remember the nice feel of the road dust on
your bare feet, the good old “sqush” of the mud
between your toes, wading in the creek at recess,
catching tadpoles to be watched as they grew up,
turning over stones,to find what lived underneath,
wading out into the ocean, the first joy of swimming
in the ocean, of giving yourself entirely to the water.

You remember—if you lived away from the
mountains—the first climbs, the delight of finding
the springs you could drink from, coming on the
deer, watching them bo_und away from you, getting
above the timber line, above the clouds, and when
the sky cleared, looking for miles and miles.

You remember always the birds, the trees you

Written for RECREATION in April, 1940.

climbed as a boy to study their nests, the pheasants
flying up, perhaps the wild turkeys, the dozen or

so little bobwhite following their mother on the
ground, one behind the other, yet never walking in

a straight line, the tiny humming birds always com-
ing to the same place by the side of the porch.

You remember many sounds—the sound of the
sea when the ocean is calm, the sound of the sea in
the winter storms on a rocky coast, the lapping of
the lake water at your camp as you wake in the
morning, the sound of the wind in the trees, the
cry of the loon on the lake, the sound of the rush-
ing mountain stream, the roar of the great falls,
the sounds of myriads of insects, the sound of the
“jug-ger-rum.”

You remember the sight of the first flowers, the
wheat just coming out of the ground, when the trees
leaf out in the spring, when the leaves have their
best color in the fall, when the first snow storm
comes, certain sunsets over the ocean or over the
lakes that were unbelievable.

You like now to remember that much of our land
and water and its sights and sounds and beauty
withal belong to all the people—deeded to them for-
ever and forever.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

269

 

A PERFECT SETTING.

 

The new amphitheater at Butler, Pennsylvania, is an
illustration of a property development which contributes

both to its utility and to its beauty.

r

27“! RECREATION

An Approach to

HERIOT CLIFTON HUTCHINS

RECREATION PLANNINGi

HE NEED FOR recreation planning can be simply
Tstated. The human need for play opportuni-
ties is increasing while the supply of natural re-
sources for recreation is diminishing. Not only is
our population growing, particularly our urban
population, but the average person in that popula-

tion has more free time for play than ever before.

—as many hours a week, in fact, as he now spends
at work. And the hours of work are still decreas-
ing. That is one side of the picture. On the other
side ‘is the continual dedication to other uses of
land needed for recreation, particularly suitable
land within or near residential neighborhoods.
Careful planning is the only means of effecting a
balance between increasing human need and di-
minishing natural resources.

The recreation plan should be an integral part
of the community plan. It is related to the land
use plan, the street plan, the neighborhood plan,
the public school plan, the governmental organiza-
tion plan and the financial plan of the municipality.
Usually the recreation plan looks ahead over a five
to ten year period, periodic revaluation of the pro-
posals being necessary as- conditions change.

Before undertaking the formulation of plans, it
is necessary to know a great deal about the com-
munity and its- people. What is the land area, the
topography and climate? What are the boundaries
of the social community? How many people live
there now, and how many are likely to be there in
five to ten years? Where are the future residential
neighborhoods likely to be? What is the occupa-

Dr. Heriot Clifton Hatcbim i: recreation planner for
the National Recreation Association.

 

‘Adaptcd from a paper prepared for the Planning Study Course for

Planning and Zoning Ofiicials and Municipal Officials of Erie County,
New York, March 2, 1949.

SEPTEMBER 1949

tional distribution—that is, what kind of recreation
tastes will be encountered? The answers to these
questions and others are needed to set the stage for
planning, to denne the problem.

The process of planning involves many situa-
tions in which there is need for the exercise of
judgment. Standards serve merely .as a point of
departure for planning. Each aspect of the process
involves taking inventory of the resources that ex-
ist, appraising them in terms of standards or other
experience, and then determining what might best
be done to achieve reasonable sufficiency in the
light of local circumstances. This last step is the
point where the experience and judgment of the
planner assume greatest importance.

The Community Recreation Program

The community recreation program is the ag—
gregate of all efforts by public and voluntary agen-
cies to furnish recreation services. Its goal is -to
provide a variety of recreation opportunities for
persons of all ages throughout the year. The mu-
nicipal function in this community program is to
furnish physical resources for recreation and serv-
ices that are freely available on equal terms to the
entire population. The municipal recreation au-
thorities need to utilize all public facilities such as
schools, libraries and parks to achieve their proper
ends. Manifestly, this calls for cooperation on the
part of many local agencies and particularly be-
tween the officials of the public agencies mentioned.

The scope of community recreation is better de-
fined by what it includes than by iixed boundaries.

' Its possibilities are virtually unlimited. It should

involve watching and listening as well as partici-
pation, forums as well as football, picnics as well as
playground games, celebrations as well as creative

271

arts. Passive recreations, active games and sports,
music, fine arts, handcrafts, social recreations,
dramatics, dancing, nature lore, outings, holiday
observances, intellectual recreations, collecting
things, and many types of community service pro j-
ects by groups and individuals are all parts of the

recreation picture, each important to some people.

In making the inventory of current program
services, it is important that no major effort of any
agency be omitted. such inclusiveness has a cer-
tain value for the appraisal of resources, but it
has a much greater public relations value. Every-
one who is.rendering a service wants to see that
service recognized. Thus the inventory should
cover all municipal recreation and park services,
all services of the public schools and public librar—
ies that are recreational in character, and the dis-
tinctively recreational services offered by youth—
serving agencies, churches, industries, clubs and
hobby-interest groups. From each of these it is
necessary to secure information on the types of ac-
tivities offered, the periods or frequency of offer-
ing, the numbers and age groups served, and any
restrictions on participation, such as membership
fees.

A reasonably good means of appraising commu-
nity recreation services subjectively is the applica-
tion of a series of criteria, such as:

I. The program should afford equal opportu-
nity in the way of facilities and activities to all
neighborhoods.

2. The program should offer activities through-
out the entire year.

3. The program should provide equal opportu-
nities for both sexes.

4. The program should furnish appropriate op-
portunities for all age groups, including older
adults. '

m 5. The program should have a definite relation—
ship to the school program of teaching leisure—

time skills, developing recreation interests, and so
on.

It is a simple matter, once the basic community
data and the inventories of current program serv-
ices are in hand, to make an appraisal which will
reveal the sore spots, so to speak, and provide the
basis for specific recommendations in the light of
local conditions.

Physical Resources for Recreation

The terms used in describing properties used
for recreation are familiar to some pe0ple but un-
known to many. A park is an area permanently
set aside for recreation use. The principal kinds

272

of park areas are the neighborhood park, playfield,
neighborhood playground and special recreation
areas, such as golf courses or bathing beaches.
Area standards apply to all publicly-owned
properties useable for recreation. The basic stand-
ard of one acre of park and recreation land for
each 100 persons in the present or estimated future

- population has achieved general acceptance among

park and recreation authorities and city planners.
For smaller communities where greater amounts
of suitable land are usually available, the National
Park Service has suggested a higher ratio of park
land to people.

Other standards relative to the proportion of
active—use areas and numbers of indoor and out-
door facilities are discussed elsewhere.* Needless
to say, these standards are useful chiefly in ap- _
praising the adequacy of existing resources in ur—
ban places and in determining approximate needs
as the basis for planning. Their usefulness in the
small community and in the highly congested ur-
ban area is limited. In no instance does the mere
application of standards constitute planning; the
standards are merely tools of the planner.

\Vhen existing resources have been inventoried
and appraised and the resulting needs determined
on the basis of local circumstances, there remain
the tasks of site selection and development. The
first goal should be to make the most efficient use
of existing parks and suitably located school sites.
Conditions in most communities make it imperative
that public school properties be recognized as com-
munity recreation resources. Money spent to en—
large and develop a well-located school site will
usually bring greater returns than a comparable
expenditure for a separate playground in the same
neighborhood.

\Vhen the service radius of each potential park
and school playground has been plotted on a p0pu-
lation map, it is usually apparent that one or more
additional playgrounds will be needed to provide
facilities within reasonable distance of all homes.
Often the needed sites can be found on land use
maps, but prOSpective areas should always be
checked by inspection since topography, access,
abutting structures, wooded areas and many other
observable factors enter into site selection. The
same procedure is followed in locating new play—
fields, neighborhood parks and larger parks.

In planning for indoor recreation centers, the
first place to look is the public school building as
a matter of dollars and cents economy. Most com-

 

‘See Butler, George D., "Standards for Municipal Recreation
Areas," RECREATION, vol. XLII, Nos. 4 and 5. July and Angus:
1948. pp. 161 and 208.

RECREATION

Sufficient space should
be allowed for each
facility. Teen-agers
have room to dance in
Santa Barbara center.

munities cannot afford to spend hundreds of thou-
sands of dollars on a new recreation building when
they can_achieve essentially the same ends at con-
siderably less cost by adding certain facilities to a
well-located school building. And the very facili-
ties needed for community recreation are equally
needed in the public school program, specifically
auditoriums, gymnasiums, shops, playrooms and
a swimming pool, to mention a few. An increasing
number of new schools have community rooms for
neighborhood use. In places where a separate rec-

reation building is desirable, it should be planned'

expressly for recreation uses by architects experi-
enced in recreation planning.

Here it is possible to touch upon only a few of
the high spots in the matter of area design. Each
development on a property should make a cOntri-
bution to its utility or beauty or both. Considera—
tion should be given to the requirements of each
age group to be served. As many facilities as pos—
sible should be planned for multiple use as, for
example, the hard-surfaced area that can be used
for court games, roller skating, outdoor dancing
and even ice skating in winter. Sufficient space
should be allowed for each facility. Related facili—
ties, such as those for smaller children, should be
grouped together. The lighting of parts of the
area—such as game courts and one or more ball
diamonds—will often greatly increase the use of
the property. Judicious landscape treatment will
make it attractive. The designing of an area by
architects skilled in recreation planning will usu—
ally bring real savings in both capital and main-
tenance costs.

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

The Managing Authority for Recreation

The municipal managing authority for parks and
recreation is the agency responsible, in most cases,
for the acquisition, development, operation and
maintenance of municipal park areas and for the
conduct and supervision of municipal recreation
services. In many states, the municipal recreation
powers may be vested in the school board, park
board, recreation commission or other existing
body. Frequently two or more political subdivi-
sions may jointly acquire property for, and operate
and maintain, playgrounds or neighborhood recre-
ation centers. Counties in some states likewise
have broad powers for the administration of park
and recreation services.

(The typically broad grant of recreation powers
to municipalities tends to bear out the position
taken by the National Recreation Association that
no one form of recreation authority is universally
applicable. The experience of this «Association
over a period of more than forty years shows that
public recreation usually fares best when it is ad-
ministered as a separate function of government
and when the determination of policies is vested in
a citizen board. Some city officials openly declare
their liking for the citizen board type of adminis-
tration, while officials in other cities are as strongly
opposed.

Whatever its form, the municipal managing au-
thority for recreation has two principal functions,
namely the making of policies and the execution of
policies. The single responsible administrator, in
effect, discharges both functions, while the citizen
board determines policies and employs an execu-

273

tive to administer them. Both are usually subject
to fiscal control by the municipal governing body.

\Vhere a recreation commission is established,
the number of members, method of appointment
and terms of office are usually prescribed by law.
It is desirable and, in fact, increasingly important
to have a member of the school board and a mem-
ber of the park board serving on such commissions
so as to provide a direct channel for cooperation
between these boards and the commission. The
authority to elect officers, appoint administrative
personnel and to establish and maintain properties
is also granted to recreation commissions by law
in most states. Such commissions should be em-
powered by local ordinance to submit a budget to
the municipal governing body for approval and,
once approved, to expend funds in accordance with
such budget.

Most communities of 5,000 or more population
can afford to have their own recreation establish-
ments with one or more full-time, year-round rec-
reation leaders. Other means of securing recrea—
tion services are also open to smaller communities,
namely, the joining of two or more municipalities
to provide recreation services, the securing of rec-
reation leadership from a larger nearby munici-
pality on a contract basis, and the provision of
local recreation services by the county.

The Recreation Personnel

The personnel requirements for the park and
recreation system should be based on the program
that is being undertaken and the areas and facili-
ties for that program. Regardless of the size of
the community, there will be need for an executive
who is the administrative head of the system, for
other leadership personnel, and for the mainte-
nance personnel. Some clerical service will also be
needed, as well as operating personnel where there
is a golf course, swimming pool or other income-
producing facility to be managed.

The size of the leadership, operating and main-
tenance staffs will depend directly on the number,
size and development of properties used in the pro-
gram. Likewise, the breadth of the program will
determine the number of activity supervisors and
specialists as well as leaders that will be required.
Many of these positions are described in Person-
nel Standards in Recreation Leadership, published
by the National Recreation Association.

A large, well-developed playground usually re-
quires, for morning, afternoon and evening opera-
tion, a minimum assigned staff of a director, as-
sistant director and one or more leaders, plus reg-
ular service from part-time roving specialists in

274

music, fine arts, handcrafts, nature study, and the
like. Smaller playgrounds require fewer assigned
leaders. Indoor recreation centers require a di-
rector and one or more leaders, plus a doorkeeper,
and usually more Specialist service than the play-
ground. Wherever the size of the establishment
permits, it is advantageous to combine assignments
in the year-round program so as to make possible
the employment of full-time personnel.

In even the smallest communities there is public
works department experience that can be utilized
in estimating park maintenance rieeds. Some cities,
particularly smaller ones, have found it economical
to vest the full responsibility for maintaining and
servicing park areas and facilities in the municipal
public works department, but this practice does
not always work to good advantage. In some cities
the recreation authorities might well arrange for
the maintenance and servicing of play areas by
park department crews.

The number of clerical and secretarial employees
should be sufficient to relieve the administrative
staff of all possible routine work, such as record
keeping, issuance of permits, duplication of re-
ports, administration of supplies. This is based on
the principle that each staff worker should be kept
as free as possible to work at his highest skill, and
should not be burdened with responsibilities that a
less skilled, lower paid employee can discharge.

Salary standards are not yet hrmly established
in the recreation profession. A suggested scale,
giving wide latitude for each type of position, is
given in the pamphlet Personnel Standards in Rec-
reation Leadership which has been mentioned. The
National Recreation Association has recently rec-
ommended that the minimum annual base salary
for qualified, professional, full—time, year-round
recreation service be not less than $2,400. Good
administrative practice calls for the establishment
of a salary schedule covering all employees of the
department and integrated with the salary schedule
for other municipal employees.

Financial Support for Municipal Recreation

The determination of costs is an effective test of
the validity of planning. At this point, the costs
of administration, leadership, supplies, operation
of facilities and maintenance of areas should be
brought together in the form of a tentative current
expense budget. Since leadership usually takes
about half the current expense budget for a good
municipal recreation program, an approximation
of the total current cost can be had by doubling
the aggregate cost of leadership salaries.

The widely accepted prewar standard of current

RECREATION

expenditure for the services commonly rendered
by a recreation department was $1.50 per capita.
The accepted prewar standard for these recreation
services traditionally rendered by park depart-
ments was $3.00 per capita. Manifestly with the
rise in costs of all materials and services since
1945, this standard should be substantially higher
todav.

Actual expenditures for parks and recreation by
large cities reflect a per capita figure which is gen-
erally below the prewar standard, according to the
limited data available. An analysis of 1947 park
and recreation expenditures in sixty-eight large
cities shows median expenditures for parks of
$1.08 per capita and median expenditures for rec—
reation of fifty-six cents per capita. The total for
both services, therefore, is a little more than half
the prewar standard. Only eight of the sixty-eight
cities reported park and recreation expenditures
exceeding $3.00 per capita for the estimated pres-

ent population and, in at least three of these eight _

cities, capital expenditures were included.

No standards and few data are available on capi-
tal costs for new park and recreation developments.
This is-attributed to the widely varying costs of
land, labor and materials in different places. The
only way to estimate the cost is to spend the time
and effort necessary to ascertain land values and
the actual cost of labor and materials at current
price levels. Once a total cost figure is obtained,
the community can usually secure necessary funds
by bonding or by direct taxation on a pay-as-you-

go basis. Sometimes the securing of funds for new -

developments is easier than getting funds for main-
taining the properties.

Next comes the task of selling the community on
the idea of spending the. necessary money. In some
cases, this can be done more easily through an
emotional appeal than through an appeal to reason.
Often both are necessary. One means of present—
ing financial facts is through a comparison of
achievements on a per capita basis with other cities
of any size or on a total expenditure basis with
communities of similar size and characteristics.

Most of the difficulty in the use of these methods _

arises from the lack of up—to-date information on

municipal populations and on municipal expendi—

tures for parks and recreation.

One measure of comparative local financial ef-
fort on behalf of public recreation is the percentage
that the municipal expenditure for recreation lead-
ership requires of the total operating expenditures
of the municipality. Reliable data for this measure

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

Consideration should be given to the requirements of
each age group. Wading pool antics in Reading, Pa.

can be obtained from the biennial YEARBOOK is-
sues of RECREATION magazine and from the MU-
NICIPAL YEARBOOKS. The latter source also gives
data for appraising local ability to pay for public
recreation from property taxes. This can be done
by comparing a particular city’s assessed valuation
and tax rate, adjusted to true value, with the aver-
age adjusted figures for cities in the same popula-
tion group.

Conclusion

It is well to re-emphasize the needed integration
of the recreation plan with the community master
plan. One is not complete without the other.
Other points that require re-emphasis are: The
necessity for securing accurate and complete data
on the nature of the community and its people to
serve as a basis for planning; the desirability of
planning for the fullest possible use of all park
properties and other publicly-owned facilities,'in-
cluding public schools; and the need for qualified,
well—organized and well-paid personnel. While
many other important factors might be mentioned,
it wouldseem that these are basic to effective and
economical recreation services which are the goals
of recreation planning.

275

The lakes and streams are God’s highway;
An ever beckoning trail

That calls me to the great outdoors
To paddle or to sail.

The red man gave me his canoe
To bear me on my way,

Propelled by subtle, paddling skill
0n creek or landlocked bay.

’Neath moss draped oak, I launch my craft
My spirit then is free.

Ahead, are a thousand pictures
That nature paints for me.

The rippling waters ’neath my prow
Presage a joyous trip,

I am the captain in command
I’m master of my ship.

My water pathway bears me far
’Twixt verdant hills and vales
And I feel the greatness of His work,

Out on the water trails.

The pines that rise on either bank
Are like a shrine of green

And the aisle-way to the altar
Is a quiet, winding stream.

The stained glass windows of my church
Are hues from a sunset’s Hame,

And darkness brings benediction
To all who praise His name.

NATHAN L. NIALLISON

Photo courtesy Euo Oilwayr.

 

 

o No LADIES were present at the concert and the
1,600 men in the audience had come in oil-stained
overalls. They were still somewhat breathless as
the Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra started on its
opening number. Less than five minutes earlier
these men were in the midst of directing electric
hoists, riding overhead traveling cranes, bending
mammoth plates with high pressure machines. But
as the noon whistle blew at Akerske Mekaniske
V erke, Oslo’s largest shipyard, these workers hur—
ried from the floating docks, shipdocks, and fitting-
out quays to the ship building hall, so they could
eat their dried fish to the accompaniment of music
provided by one of Europe’s great symphony or-
chestras.

Insisting that factory workers can become ar-
dent music-lovers, Ragnar Kjerulf, newly ap-
pointed manager of the Oslo Philharmonic Or-
chestra, two years ago proposed to take the or-
chestra to Oslo factories.

He was met by a storm of objections. “You

can’t humiliate a hundred-year-old institution by
' forcing it to perform in noisy factory yards,” pro-
tested an irate old supporter. “Playing for unedu-
cated masses will ruin the orchestra’s artistic
standard,” said another. '

“Too much-extra work,” said members of the
orchestra. “Your concerts will only disrupt order;
we’d lose precious working hours,” declared the
factory managements. Undisturbed, Kjerulf con-
tinued seeking and getting the cooperation of
workers’ cultural organizations.

When he had taken over the management of the
orchestra this youthful, white—haired NOrwegian

knew what he wanted. His first step had been to.

reduce prices. For many years a ticket had cost
six kroner ($1.20). Kjerulf offered two tickets

Hungarian born jonrnalz'n Lili Folder, and leer kn:-
band, Andor Folder, antrcanding concert pinnirt, nave
recently returned from a ten-country European tour.

SEPTEMBER 1949

ale-:31

LILI FOLDES

for this price. Attendance increased considerably,
but the manager still did not see workers among
those present. So he wrote manufacturers, sug-
gesting that they buy season tickets for the men.
“We’d be glad to oblige,” came the answers, “but
none of our workers would be interested in going
even if presented with the tickets.”

“It was then that I decided to seek out the men
themselves,” Kjerulf recalls.

The experiment worked miraculously. Not only
did the factory concerts go over big, but hundreds
of workers became regular subscribers to the Oslo
Philharmonic. Critics vanished and the factory
managements cheerfully admitted that they were‘
wrong in believing that these concerts would slow
down production. Actually, they said, they stimu-
lated the men to increased output. I

Even Kjerulf was surprised at this happy turn
of events. It hadn’t looked so rosy when the Phil-
harmonic. gave its first concert at the Oslo ship-
yard. On a gloomy, overcast fall morning the mu-
sicians began taking their places on the makeshift
platform at one end of the huge hall. Instead of
the hushed, solemn quiet that usually surrounded
them in the concert hall during the all-important-
minutes preceding a concert, here they were af-
fronted with the nerve-racking noise of drillers.
Huge cranes'traveled above their heads Most of“
the musicians ’looked unhappy. Except. for the
roof, the shipbuilding hall was an open' affair.

‘ “High humidity made tuning of instrumentsfdiffi-

cult.

.The'noon whistle blew.—'1’Drills-and'cranes be-
came silent. But ’the hundredsi'Of men who came
into, the hall had a sullen look and cast grihi’
glances toward the platform. “A sense, of great
futility overcame me,” Kjerulf admits. “The men
didn’t want us here. Their attitude made it clear
they resented having something pushed 'down_their
throatsi” I A I

The only perSon apparently unaffected by’ the

277

 

In Connecticut, U.S.A., a community orchestra plays
for folks. Philharmonic music comes to them via radio.

heavy mood was conductor Odd Gruner-Hegge.
The handsome black-haired maestro smiled cheer-
fully at the workers—who slowly accommodated
themselves on tool benches or leaned against walls
and machines. Then he nodded to his orchestra
and raised his right hand for the downbeat. The
first bars of Johan Halvorsen’s Norwegian Rhap-
sody were completely lost in the rustle as the
hungry shipyard workers began unwrapping their
luncheons.

By the time the orchestra got halfway through
the first piece the men had finished eating, had
lighted their pipes, and were puffing contentedly
but still seemingly unaware of the music. Then,
suddenly, they started to listen. The nostalgic
tunes of the Rhapsody began to sink in. Some
even forgot about their pipes. Others closed their
eyes. In less than a quarter of an hour the Phil-
harmonic turned indifferent workers into an en-
raptured audience.

\Vhen the last selections from Grieg’s Peer Gynt
Suite brought to an end the thirty-minute concert,
a stocky worker who had been standing in front
jumped on stage impulsively and delivered a
speech of thanks while the rest of the audience
gave loud evidence that he spoke for all. Then the
men rose spontaneously to sing the Norwegian
national anthem and the orchestra joined them.

Since its first venture, the Oslo Philharmonic

has played in almost every factory in and around'

Oslo, including soap factories, paper mills, electric-
appliance plants, shoe factories, rubber plants. To
put his audiences at ease Kjerulf decided to make
a brief speech before each concert. “Let me intro-
duce you to the members of our family,” he would
say. “These here are the violins. Over there are
the trombones. Each of them will have a lot to
say in the next half hour, and most of them will
talk simultaneously. Try to listen to them all.”

I attended a lunch-hour concert recently at the

278

F reia chocolate factory. There were about 600
men and women in the large modern cafeteria.
F reia provides hot luncheons fer one krone
(twenty-cents), and most of the workers walked
into the dining room carrying their well-filled
plates. The thriftier ones, like Thomas Iversen,
at whose table I sat, brought their own food.

Iversen spoke English well—learned it reading
American papers and listening to US. short—wave
programs. He looked with satisfaction at the
hundreds of workers pouring into the hall. Sud—
denly he called out happily to a blond young man
who held his luncheon plate in his hand and was
looking for a seat.

“Willy! Come over here!” And while the
young man was finding his way across the crowded
room Iversen told me why he was so glad to see
the boy.

“Couldn’t get him to come to the previous con-
cert. He wasn’t interested in music, he said, but
today I managed to talk him into it.”

Willy Andersen joined us at our table, restless,
looking tensely at the musicians. Willy had spent
twelve days on a raft in the cold waters of the
Atlantic in 1944, when his tanker was torpedoed
off Newfoundland. He had been working in the
chocolate factory since the liberation. He felt fine
while at work, but away from the machines his
mind kept wandering back to the days on the raft
and the thought tied knots in his throat and stom-
ach. “I have yet to see this boy finish lunch,”
Iversen told me. “I have watched him for months.

He tastes his food, then leaves it.”
In devoted silence the audience listened to

Grieg’s Soloeig’s Song. A deafening applause
greeted the end of this beloved number. \Villy
Andersen applauded too. His checks were flushed
and he seemed to relax. Suddenly he reached for
his fork and started to eat. He finished up his
large plate, then smiled at his friend: “You were
right about these concerts,” he said. “I think I’ll
come again.” And he leaned back happily, forget-
ting himself in the music. n

When the half-hour concert came to a trium—
phant end, a buxom woman in a white uniform
addressed a group of workers around her: “I was
at the concert last night in the Aula,” she said.
“King Haakon was there too. Imagine, our 77-
year-old King had to leave his palace and go to
the University to hear the orchestra—but for our
sake the orchestra came right here. I think this is
wonderful.” The workers cheered.

Thomas Iversen turned to me with a bright
smile. “She ain’t kiddin’,” he said, proudly dis-
playing his American slang.

RECREATION

HOW TO WIN BIRDS .-
and be Influenced People w "= .

MILDRED STEVENSON

HEN MR. AND MRS. Arthur Lane stroll
Wthrough their garden in Ithaca, New York,
tiny chickadees crowd around, dive into their
pockets for food, perch on their shoulders, even

snatch seeds from their lips. Other persons have,

taught woodpeckers to snatch nuts from the air,
just as a trained dog grabs at a tossed ball. They
have found that attracting birds. to one’s home
means new fun, new interest and education for
young and old, the healthy and bedridden.

It is true, too, that the care and feeding of birds
is an increasingly popular pastime, as evidenced
by the birdhouses and feeding trays on display in
suburban hardware stores. Even more persons
would be sharing this fun if only they knew how
easy it is to win the confidence of these wild things
so that they will live in their backyard and happily
chatter away at their window feeding tray.

The public should. however, be warned of one
fact before it is too late: the birds are not content
just to let you feed them. They insist upon alter-

ing the very lives of those who befriend them.
Case histories prove this.

As stressed by Chandler S. Robbins of the U. S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, it is posSible, by furnish-
ing food, water and protection, to lure at least
twenty species to virtually any city backyard if
only there is a not too distant shrubbery or a tree.
A large number may even be drawn to an apart-
ment window. You simply take ,advantage of
feathered psychology by digging pools amid your
greenery or by placing bits of looking glass at the
bottom of shallow pans filled with water. Catching

 

Amt/901' wrote "Pet Bird: Are Fzm,” May RECREATION.

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

the glint of reflected sun from these, the bir comes
down to drink and rest. Then it spies raw ham-
burger or other meat scraps, oatmeal, spaghetti,
seed and suet which you have scattered on acleared
patch of loose earth where it may also scratch for
the grit it must have to grind its food.

Ground-eaters, such as robins, will be satisfied
with this layout. However, after a few nibbles,
most of the birds will look up at the feeding tray
placed overhead, convinced that what was on the
ground merely spilled from this. The tray may be
a simpleplatform up to three by three feet, stripped
at the edges to prevent overflowing, and super-
imposed on a pole or hung from a tree. Or it. may
be a glass—roofed contraption placed on any win-
dow sill not much higher than a nearby tree. If the
birds fail to discover the sill you can pull them to
it via a feeding box. You move the box a foot or
two nearer to your window every night when the
birds are asleep. This can be rigged up on a trol-
ley from their roosts or more “accustomed eating
places.

Spread the trays with trademarked bird seed.
Or, because eating habits differ with locations and
species, you“ can find out what your visitors like
best by setting out sunflower seed, peanut hearts,
hemp, millet, cracked wheat and chicken feed, sup-
plementing this seed diet with suet plus peanut
butter canapes, bits of doughnuts, corn bread, pie
——whatever you have. If you do these things,
within weeks you will be surprised at the variety
of feathers and song in a neighborhood you previ-
ously imagined was populated exclusively by Eng-
lish sparrows.

In the meantime something will have happened

279

to you. For instance, squirrels, which you previ-
ously believed were cute, will become pests be-
cause they insist upon hogging the birds’ dinner.
When trays are hung on long wires they some-
times even learn to slide down, fireman-style.

You’ll find yourself plotting against them, perhaps '

even girdling your feeder tree or pole with funnel-

shaped tins to keep them out.

I often neglect my housework to hide behind the
window curtains in order to douse water on any
greedy squirrel that invades my sill feeder. Some-
times the squirrel becomes angry instead of fright-
ened and trieS to dive through the window at me.
and I save myself only by slamming it shut. One
old lady in our town takes these animals so seri-
ouSly that she sits by her window all day just' so
that when one appears in her feeder she may yank
a cord threaded through the wall to a Rube Gold-
bergian device which rattles a can of marbles in
its ear.

\Vhen such concern registers itself the uniniti-
ated may suspect your sanity, but it merely is one
of the steps in the deve10pment of the bird addict.
From now on you will not be satisfied to have
casual bird callers. You will want colonies. You
will begin catering to them to this end.

For example, birds need winter shelter. Thou-
sands upon thousands of bluebirds once perished
in an“ icy storm because their frail feet froze to

It’s possible to lure twenty species to almost any
city backyard if there is a tree or Shrubbery nearby.

 

280

their exposed perches. In lieu of natural cover,
you will want to provide a substitute. You can
upend orange crates, cover these with tar paper
and cleat them together in the form of a U, with
the backsideS to the wind and the entrance to the
south, then Sprinkle them with seed as a lure. Mid-
dle-aged Mrs. Ada Clapham Govan of Massachu-
settS was down to her last $6.44 when she origi-
nated this idea. Her husband was unemployed due
to the depression and she wondered how she could
feed her family and thefbirds which had provided
amusement through years of invalidism. Then the
birds changed everything for Mrs. Govan, for she
became convinced that she should write about

. them. Despite lack of professional experience, she

sold eight manuscripts in eight weeks. She be-
came director of her own bird sanctuary, pur-
chased through popular subscription, and wrote a
book, Birds at M 31 Window, which catapulted her
into the top ranks of American nature writers.

Another mark of bird-addiction is mounting
wrath against cats. One cat may kill a hundred
birds. Even with bells around their necks they
learn to stalk without a jangle. None but the reck-
less bird will remain long where there are prowl-
erS, so persons who formerly liked cats begin
searching for ways and means of getting rid of
them. A method is Sponsored by the U. S. Fish
and \Vildlife Service under the title, H ow to Get
Rid of a Vagrant Cat. This publishes directions
for building a never-fail trap. '

However, the invention of the National 'Park
Service’s Robert R. Budlong not only is safest for
everyone, but shows _to what lengths the bird ad-
dict will go. Stepping into a trough to taste the
fish bait before she has her bird course, the cat
Springs a rat trap attached to a building lath which
sweeps down, spanking her so smartly on her
south end that She is hurled headfirst into a tub
of cold water. No cat So chastised ever again visits
Mr. Budlong’s domain. “My neighbors tell me
their cats have become rather Shy,” he declares.
“The pussies stay home, keep looking over their
shoulders as though some memory bothers them.”

Shrubbery which you formerly kept trimmed
will be allowed to become: a‘ thicket for nesting
places. You may _even make over your garden,
adding food-producing vegetation—trees such as
Russian mulberry, chbkeberry, mountain ash, ,
spruce, pine, juniper, hawthorn, crab' apple, beech,
oak and birch, to name afew; bushes such aS bit-
tersweet, vibirnurn,;mock orange, bayberry, shad-
bush, honeysuckle, blue cornel ; flowers such as
prince’s-feather, love-lieS-bleeding, asters, Califor-
nia poppies, cosmos, marigolds, Sunflowers, forget-

RECREATION

me-nots. Such plantings will feed your birds into

late winter.
You also might bundle neutrally-hued string,

yarn and ravelings into one of those mesh bags in
which oranges are sold and tie it to low branches.
Birds often are particular about color, and no bird
seeking materials for an inconspicuous nest will
tolerate red.

One result of all this is that you will have birds
in your backyard that you never saw before, ex—
cept in Audubon prints. Don’t expect more than
one pair of some varieties, though, for when the
male bursts with spring song he is warning his
own species to stay away.

You may see a cowbird which lays her single
egg in another’s nest, then flits off. When the
drafted foster mother angrily kicks out the fledg-
ling you may observe an even smaller sparrow
bringing it food until it is strong enough to fly to
the feeding tray. Then the baby will sit there,
hogging the food and barring the entrance to even
its savior. Maybe you will see a crested flycatcher
which, to keep marauders from its nest, searches
miles for the skin of a dead snake to be used as a
scarecrow.

Perhaps you’ll attract a mockingbird like ours.
After arousing every dog at midnight by imitating
a neighbor whistling for his setter, he broke into
melodies seemingly influenced by the radio con—
cert of the previous Sunday, when he and the other
birds had crowded the nearby trees to listen or
join in barbershop style. They do this; birds enjoy
music. .

Searching parties could not discourage one

mocker which, from the bushes, haunted the Wash— '

ington Symphony’s outdoor concerts with notes
that trailed three bars behind the musicians. In
“Peter and the \Volf” a flute imitates a bird; he
imitated the flute imitating a bird so lustily that it
nearly wrecked the performance. So inspired was
he by Dorothy Maynor, the soprano, that he flew
to a flagpole overhead, faced the audience, and
made it a duet.

You will have adventures all right. If you want
to double them, or offset sparseness of your shrub-
bery, you should have houses for those birds
which, through the centuries, have accustomed
themselves to roofs over their nests. They used to
live in old woodpeckers’ holes; in an era of few
dead trees they find an acute housing shortage.
Such species include titinice, sapsuckers, flickers,
blackbirds, martins—more than fifty altogether.

Just because no bird ever inhabited that fifty-
cent house you bought at the drugstore, or the one
Junior made in manual training class, don’t de-

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

Greenery' can be arranged near window feeding tray.
Note the use of an ordinary toaster to hold food.

spair. 'A birdhouse is a highly specialized piece of
real estate which must be tailored to exacting
specifications for each species. It must be placed
in the location and at the height the bird wants;
the entrance must be just large enough to let him
in and keep anything bigger out.

As a result of years of research, the Audubon
Society and the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service
are able to send you instructions for making houses
according to bird specifications. Donald B. Hyde
of Newtonville, Massachusetts, who has been in-
the business of selling such houses, approved by
the Audubon Society, didn’t learn what birds want
till after he squandered $300 on Indian—made rus—
tic houses which he thought would be profitable to
copy because they were cute.

Incidentally, the birds have repaid Mr. Hyde for
his perseverance by altering his life. A successful
lumber broker handy with tools, he made a feeding
tray only because his wife insisted on one for her
own window. It proved so popular among neigh—
bors that in order to find time to earn a living he
had to fix a price and hire carpenters. Birdhouses
came next, with Mrs. Hyde as the bookkeeper, his
young daughter mixing humming—bird nectar in
the family kitchen and his schoolboy son packing ,
shipments in the basement. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Calkins, to whom he turned over the development
and sale of suet cakes, expected to confine this ac-

281

tivity to the kitchen of their Harvard, Massachu—
setts, farm. \Nhen it overflowed not only the en-
tire house but the barn and rented quarters, they
had to move to town.

Today these enterprises hll three factories, with
plans under way for another to employ 200 people.
Hyde products account for $250,000 retail sales a
year, including 50,000 birdhouses alone. And what
has happened to Mr. Hyde? You guessed it. The
birds got him. He has turned over the business to
a manager so he can lecture about them.

Albert Rich Brand was a successful broker, but
he quit the New York Stock Exchange at forty to
get a college education and, because the birds got
him, ended up an ornithologist at Cornell, captur-
ing bird songs on phonograph records. Because
the birds sing their loudest at dawn, for years he
was up with the sun. With the aid of a sound
truck and special machines developed by himself
and his engineers, he ascertained that the birds’
average pitch is a quarter—note higher than any-
thing on the piano, that some of their songs are
too high for the human ear to register, and that in
seven seconds a winter wren sings 113 notes. As
a result there are seventy-two wild bird songs on
phonograph records with more than 39,500 sides
sold annually.

Dr. T. E. Musselman was content as secretary
of the Gem City Business College in Quincy, Illi-
nois, before the bluebirds enchanted him. Unhappy
about their disappearance from the roadsides, he
built a home in which they would nest. Since then,
he has devoted himself to prevailing upon other
folk to build similar houses for which he mails free
mimeographed instructions, and to setting out his
own handiwork as fast as he can for a coast-to—
coast “Bluebird Trail.” The first year he nailed up
102 houses, of which eighty-eight were occupied.
In 1948 he personally put up a thousand.

When the pair of wood ducks prepare to leave
their nest in the Bath, Illinois, park where they
come annually to an old sycamore tree, people in

One of Mr. Hyde’s feeding trays, cafeteria style.

 

282

nearby shops rush out as Paul Reveres to spread
the news. Traffic is rerouted from the adjacent
state highways. Then the entire town stands by
to watch ducks and ducklings waddle across and
down to the Illinois River.

In communities throughout the United States
and Canada there are increasing thousands of law—
yers, doctors, housewives and mechanics who fore-
go the comfort of their homes at Christmas to take
a bird census. They tramp their areas, happy as
they list sparrows, rapturous as they discover Ant—
arctic gulls near Lake ‘Erie and Orioles in New
Jersey. The Audubon Society tally for 1947 dis—
closed they had taken an actual census of 5, 573,000
birds. '

The birds got all of these people, and that’s the
way it usually turns out. Interest in birds spreads
as a contagious disease. Wherever one person
cares for them a neighbor observes his fun and
doeslikewise, until a whole community is involved.
So many residents of Maryland’s Chevy Chase-
Bethesda suburbs north of Washington care for
birds that their population has increased to twenty
to an acre, as against a national average of two.
All of the small hardware stores carry birdseed,
with the average one selling at least 5,000 pounds
a month. When one merchant hires an armory for
a lecture on birds he hlls it with youngsters and
adults asking how long a bluejay .lives and do
birds think.

Indeed, the care and feeding of birds is as catch-
ing as measles. And if yon think it incredible that
they might change YOUR life too, just set out your
first pan of crumbs on a snowy day and see what
happens.

___—__.-o-—O-*-_—

People in Recreation

ROBERT CRAWFORD, superintendent of the Oak—
land, California, Recreation Department, re-
cently received the “Good Government” award
presented annually by the Oakland Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce for outstanding contribution to
good government through participation in civic
affairs.

Mr. Crawford, who has served in his present
position since 1946, is a graduate of Des Moines
University and was a Navy welfare officer during
World War II. He has been superintendent of
recreation at Hastings-on-the-Hudson, New York,
and Montclair, New Jersey, and has served as con—
sultant on recreation at Governor Earl \Varren’s
Youth Conference and as chairman of the recrea-
tion and parks section, League of California Cities.

RECREATION

The “Place (lililiCillillTlllN in
the Total College Curriculum

 

 

THE FIRST OF THREE ARTICLES
on the above subject prepared
by contributors from Springfield
College. “A College Recreation
Director Looks at Social Values
j of Recreation” and “A Student
Looks at Place of Recreation in
College Curriculum” will follow
in the October and November is-
sues of RECREATION respectively.

A COLLEGE PRESIDENT LO0KS AT THE PRIDBLEM

PAUL M. LIMBERT

ET ME indicate first what I conceive to be the
L specific function of a college president in a
symposium of this kind: .

I. Others. have elaborated on the values of rec-
reation as a phase of education. You want to know
not so much how a college president views recrea—
tion in theory, but how his administration reflects
in practice the value he places on recreation. The
provisions the administrator makes, or fails .to
make, for the recreation experience of his students
and faculty indicate how much regard he has for
recreation values and how clearly he has thought
through the implications of these values in terms
of facilities and leadership.

2. You do not want me to report on what is
being done on one particular campus in dealing
with recreation, even though my presentation will
be colored inevitably by our experience at Spring—
field College. Ours is a medium-sized college in a

medium-sized city. We need to keep in mind here.

the variety of institutional and sociological settings
in which college and university programs are being
carried on—the small college in a small town, a
communitypalmost sufficient unto itself, and also
the huge sprawling university, often squeezed into

SEPTEMBER '1949

a downtown section of the city with practically no
campus of its own: Springfield College is a school
with a strong professional emphasis, including a
specialized curriculum of professional training in
recreation and camping. But, in this symposium,
we are considering the place of recreation in gen-
eral education and not in terms of the training of
professional workers.

' 3. It is my function to consider the college pro-
gram as a whole—courses of study, student life
and activities, personnel services, faculty growth
and relationships—“also to take into account such
practical matters as budget, buildings and mainte*
nance, faculty appointments, and the overall ad-
ministrative structure of the institution. The col-
lege president is “in the middle”———-in more than
one sense !'—and he, if anyone, must have an inclu-

‘sive view of the place of recreation in the college.

Is Recreation a Concern of the College?

This is the prior question a president must face.
Lest you'think this is a trite or purely rhetorical
question, assuming that every president would say
yes, let me remind you that there are some very
real issues here as judged by the actual practice in

283

our American colleges.

If President Hutchins of the University of Chi-
cago were here, I imagine he would say that the
university has a very limited responsibility for the
recreation of students, and that the primary con—
cern of the administrator is to provide for intellec-
tual development. If the presidents of some of our
technical and professional schools were here, I
judge that they would say that recreation has a
very minor place in their thinking because they
must concentrate on intensive training for specific
professions. Even if we had on the platform the
men and women who have written most in recent
years about general education, I suspect that they
would not have much to say, since thus far they
have given very little attention to the place of
recreation in general education.

To be less serious for a moment,
if you were to ask the townspeople
in our college communities whether
the administrator needs to be con-
cerned about the recreation of his
students, many of them would con-
sider it a joke. “’hat else do stu-
dents do? Isn’t all college life pretty
much recreation? They visit us usu-
ally only to watch our intercollegiate
games and our dramatic and musical
productions. They see our students
chiefly in hours of relaxation. Small
wonder that the old quip was coined :
“\Vhat do you mean by college—bred?
A four-year loaf.”

“ill the recreational phase of a
student’s experience be cared for
adequately by students themselves
and by off-campus commercial and
voluntary agencies ?' Does the col-
lege president really have to worry
much about the place of recreation in
the total college program?

A Phase of Personnel Services

The most obvious answer to these Skills-
questions is to insist that provision
for satisfying recreation experience is an important
phase of personnel services. Certainly any dean of

students or similar administrative officer, who car—'

ries responsibility for personnel services, will be
concerned about recreation opportunities from two
angles:

1. Are enough recreation Opportunities available
to students, within the range of their financial re—
sources and the transportation at their disposal, to
provide for relaxation from tensions and for satis-

284

faction of personal interests not 111et in the ordi-
nary routine of courses? Does anyone doubt that
there are such tensions, growing out of intensive
preoccupation in library, laboratory or examina—
tions; or out of the frustrations that often arise
from poorly conducted classes; or out of strained
relationships with members of the faculty or with
other students; or out of personal worries related
to financial troubles or family maladjustments? So
far as unsatisfied interests are concerned, there is
the whole range of avocational pursuits in sports,
drama and the like plus,.‘in many cases, a search
for satisfactions related to one’s chosen profession
which are likely to be ignored curriculum—wise “in
the early years of college.

2. Are the right kind of recreation opportunities

 

Recreation experiences can extend range of students’ interests,

Dancing is presented to University of Michigan coeds.

available to students? Here at least three criteria
occur to me:

It should be possible to a large extent to find
adequate outlets for recreation interest on the cam—
pus. This has advantages to the student from the
standpoint of convenience and low cost, and to the
college from the standpoint of control of the qual—
ity of recreation. Hence the justification for an
extensive on—campus program of dances, musicales,

. and even movies.

RECREATION

A variety of recreation Opportunities should be
available both on and off campus. Part of the edu-
cator’s responsibility is to extend the range of a
student’s recreation experiences: for example, to
include both the sports and the arts in his recrea-
tion repertoire, to develop avocational interests
that have high carry-over value after college.

The recreation experiences of the student should
be truly satisfying. Dances and parties that are
well conducted are more' fun in the long run. The
concomitant influences of a recreation experience
may be highly significant in terms of attitudes
formed, friendships established, prejudices broken
down, social adjustments achieved. Campus recre-
ation events may be among the most effective
means of'promoting better understanding between
students and faculty.

If recreation is recognized as an important phase
of personnel services, the administrative implica—
tions are clear. Facilities for recreation are impor-
tant and intrinsic needs. Student unions, little
theatres, intramural playing fields are not frills but
essential items in a building program. Leadership
for the student recreation program should be pro-
vided on the same basis as other personnel serv-
ices. At least one person with faculty standing is
needed to serve as an adviser of recreation activi—
ties. In a small institution, the same person may
direct the intramural sports program. This staff
member should have a background of preparation
in group-work as well as in recreation.

A Phase of the Curriculum

It is our thesis also that recreation should be in-
cluded in the curriculum of general education. This
is doubtless a more controversial point than our
preceding reference to recreation as a part of per-
sonnel services. Can recreation in the nature of
the case be required? A good definition of recrea-
tion is “all these” things that people do to hnd sat-
isfactions in those hours of the day which they can
call their own.” Can one offer credit courses in
recreation without destroying the voluntary ele-
ment which is basic to the recreation experience?
What shall we say about courses in arts and crafts,
music, drama, nature study?

Within the limits of time, I can only sketch my
own answer to these questions, outlining certain
conditions under which it is' sound to include
courses dealing with recreation as a part of the
regular curriculum:

I. I f a balance is maintained between adminis-
tration-sponsored courses in recreation and a stu-
dent-initiated recreation program.. The introduc-
tion of certain courses, perhaps required, should

SEPTEMBER 1949

never be interpreted as dis-
placing or encroaching upon
the whole range of recreation
activities conducted primari-
1y under student auspices.

2. If the student has a
chance to choose among a va-
riety of curriculum oferings,
yet is exposed to some rec-
reation experiences that ex-
tend the range of his inter-
ests and skills. Here we face
the problem of required versus elective courses that
arises throughout the curriculum. If a student can
choose among several types of courses in recrea-
tion, the voluntary attitude is preserved to a con-
siderable degree. Yet there will be instances where
a student will be advised to take a certain course
in recreation just because he has a blind spot in
this area and will proht by an exposure to a field
where at present he has no skill.

3. I f high standards of teaching are maintained
in these courses. These courses in recreation must
be taken seriously by the student, whether or not
he receives academic credit. The same standards
of good workmanship for both instructor and stu-
dents, as hold in other courses, are essential in the
held of recreation. There is no place here for
“snap” courses. Unless a course in recreation
leads to intrinsic, personal satisfactions, it has no
place in the curriculum.

4. I 1‘ courses in recreation are recognized as an
important phase of the program of general educa-
tion. A course in this field will normallybe re-
garded as terminal, rather than preparatory for
other courses. It will be regarded as functionally
related to personal growth and social responsibil-
ity, rather than a part of the technical or profes-
sional curriculum. Here is a rich vein that has '
been little explored thus far by those who areex-
perimenting with general education. Perhaps, first,
we must break down a certain academic snobbish-
ness which assumes that recreation is not an ap-
propriate subject matter for a college curriculum. _
Accepting general education as “that-part of a
student’s whole education which looks first of all
to his life as a responsible human being and citizen”
(Harvard Report), how can we fail to make pro-

vision for recreation within the curriculum?
——*o—-t-‘—————

“Recreation is not a secondary concern for a
democracy. It is a’primary concern, for the kind
of recreation a people make for themselves deter-
mines the kind of people they become and the kind
of society they build.”——Dr. Harry A. Overstreet.

 

285

St '
1" NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

174’- 

HE WELCOME MAT is out for our old

friends among the recreation equipment
people, book . publishers, crafts firms and
other cooperative agencies who will be with
us again in New Orleans. They who manu-
facture the necessary materials of play, have
much to offer in the way of what’s new,
what’s practical, what best can fill our needs,
and come to place their services at our dis-
posal. Many of them have been at Congress
gatherings for lo these many years; some of
them are new; all of them will be on hand to
offer suggestions and help in regard to the
materials so necessary to the performance of
a good recreation job.

Don’t fail to plan time in your schedule for
taking advantage of the opportunity to exam-
ine new equipment first-hand, to bring your-
self up-to-date on what’s available for future
reference. It’s much better than reading ad-
vertisements, gives you a chance'to ask ques-
tions, to renew old acquaintances, form new
contacts that will be helpful to you later.

The exhibits will be conveniently located
so that you cannot miss them as you pass in
and out of meetings. Stop by, and give these
loyal friends your personal greeting! Exhib-
itors are listed here.

286

a

Ackley, Bradley and Day, Sewickley, Pa.
Arlen Trophy Company, New York, N. Y.
The Athletic Institute, Inc., Chicago, Ill.
Aviation Products, .‘N ew York, N. Y.

Ron Bales Sales Agency, Emporia, Kan.

A. S. Barnes & Company, New York, N. Y.
J. E. Burke & Company, Fond du Lac, Wis.
Childcraft, Chicago, Ill.

Cleveland Crafts, East Cleveland, Ohio.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
Frost \Voven “7 ire Company, Keyport, N. 
Game-Time, Inc., Litchfield, Mich.

Geo. Gillis Shoe Corporation, Fitchburg,
Mass. '

Hillerich and Bradsby Company, Inc., Louis-
ville, Ky.

Horton Handicraft Company, Farmington,
Conn.

The Judy Company, Minneapolis, Minn.
J. C. Larson Company, Chicago, Ill.

Logan Manufacturing Company, Glendale,
Calif.

MacGregor-Goldsmith, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio.

Magnus Brush and Craft Materials, New
York, N. Y.

National Bowling Council, Dayton, Ohio.

Pennsylvania Rubber Company, Jeannette,
Pa. '

Pepsi—Cola Company, Long Island City,
N. Y. ”

J. E. Porter Corporation, Ottawa, Ill.
RCA Victor Division, Camden, N. J.

Rawlings Manufacturing Company, St. Lou—
is, Mo.

Square Dance Associates, Freeport, N. Y.

United States Rubber Company, New Or-
leans, La. '

W'. J. Voit Rubber Corporation, Chicago, Ill.

\Veaver W intark Sales Company, Shamokin,
Pa.

\Vilson Sporting Goods Company, Chicago,
Ill.

RECREATION

 

John Davis Williams

Congress Speaker

John Davis Williams, Chancellor of the University of Mississippi,

has accepted an invitation to address an evening session of the

Congress on the subject of “Recreation and Abundant Living.”

\Vord was not reCeived in time to permit including this announce-

ment with that of the other speakers, in the August RECREATION.

 

N THE EVE of the National Recreation Con-
gress, we are moved to express our deep ap-
preciation to the very helpful committees and many
individuals who shared in planning for the 1949

session.

The 3Ist National Recreation Congress is the re-
sult of suggestions and work 'of literally hundreds

)4WW

to all who havefgenerously shared in this process.

We gladly present below the personnel of a few
of the various committees; we wish there were
room to include all. Also listed below are those in

New Orleans who have worked to make our stay

of people, working cooperatively for the best inter-
ests of the recreation movement. We are grateful _

there pleasant and as rewarding as possible.
To all of you our profound gratitude.
T. E. RIVERS, Secretary,
NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

 

Recreation Congress Advisory
Committee

B. R. Allison, Nashville, Tenn.

Virginia Carmichael, Atlanta, Ga.

G. E. Chew, Sun Oil Company, Mar-
cus Hook, Pa.

Robert W. Crawford, Oakland, Calif.

A. E. Genter, Akron, Ohio

Lester J. Lautenschlaeger, New Or-
leans, La.

W. Norman Watts, New Haven, Conn.

Recreation Executives Committee
on Administrative Problems

Floyd Rowe, Chairman, Cleveland,
Ohio

William K. Amo, Little Rock, Ark.

Grant Brandon, Lancaster, Pa.

John P. Brechtel, New Orleans, La.

Ruth Bush, Memphis, Tenn.

Joe L. Christensen, Murray, Utah

W. W. Harth, Columbia, S. C.

Larry J. Heeb, Lawrence, Kan.

Ralph M. Hileman, Baton Rouge Par-
ish, La.

Dorothea M. Lensch, Portland, Ore.

Stephen H. Mahoney, Cambridge,
Mass.

John O. E. Pearson, Brantford, Ont.

Walter Roy, Chicago, 111.

W. P. Witt, Corpus Christi, Texas

Beth Wallace Yates, Sylacauga, Ala.

Ben York, West Palm Beach, Fla.

Hospital Advisory Committee

Edward D. Greenwood, M.D., Direc-
tor, Southard School, Menninger
Foundation, Topeka, Kan.

Carolyn Nice, National Recreation
Consultant, Service in Military Hos-

pitals, American National Red Cross,
Washington, D. C.

SEPTEMBER 1949

W. H. Orion, Director, Recreation

Service, Veterans Administration,
Washington, D. C.

Industrial Recreation Advisory
Committee

Victor Bonnaifee, Jr., United Fruit
Company, New Orleans, La.

G. M. Matlack, Counselor of Recrea-
tion, Burlington Mills Cramerton
Division, Cramerton, N. C.

John L. Moore, Recreation Director,
Remiston Village Council, Talladega,

la.

E. L. Parker, President, Callaway Ed-
ucational Association, LaGrange, Ga.

Robert Turner, Coordinator of Recre—
ation, Department of Community
Recreation, West Point Manufac-
turing Company, Lanett, Ala.

Fred A. Wilson, Coordinator of Em-
ployee Activities, Scovill Manufac—
turing Company, Waterbury, Conn.

New Orleans
Local Arrangements Committee

Lester J. Lautenschlaeger, Honorary
Chairman, Director, New Orleans
Recreation Department.

I John P. Brechtel, Chairman, New Or-

leans Recreation Department.
Richard Dixon, Vice-Chairman, New
Orleans Recreation Department.
Henry .Boh
Mrs. Charles F. Buck
Ray Cantrell
Blaise Carriere
William Coker
Sam Coronswet
George Douglas
Mrs. William Dreaux
Thomas A. Fox, Jr.

N.

Clifton Ganus

Ed Garland

Charles Genella

John Hall Jacobs
Mrs. Herbert Kenny
W. 13. Lancaster

Dr. Henry A. LaRocca
J. D. LeBlanc

Dr. Louis Legett
Lewis G. Lemle

John Lynch

Marcel Montreuil

Gar Moore

Ralph Nolan

General Allison Owen
Mary Raymond
Horace Renegar

Frank Schaub
L. J. Schroder
A. Spatafora

C. C. Walther

Reception and Services for
Colored Delegates

Morris F. X. Jeff, General Chairman,
Director of Negro Division, New

Orleans Recreation Department.
Alfred Collins, Chairman, Reception
Mrs. Alma Granderson, Chairman,

Entertainment
A. .C. Moore, Chairman, Housing
Audry Baxton
Daniel Brown
Elizabeth Gaines
Ralph Haines
Henry Hamilton
Daniel Hawkins
Bennie Jefferson
Marie Royal
Charles Smith
Irma Smith
Oliver Thompson
Elaine Vandergriif

287

 

RECREATHIN
CENTERS
FHR RURAL
YOU'l‘ll

,A é’zft or a goal?

Carol M. Larson

   

Superm'mr, Rural Sociology ReJearc/a Laboratory, the
State College of Warbington

288

“WHAT shall we do tonight? If my folks

weren’t having a bridge party at our house,
we probably could go over there and dance.”

“Yeah, my dad isn’t feeling well tonight and he
said he wanted the house quiet.”

“And there’s no use thinking about our house.
Since we got the new davenport and chair we have
trouble enough even walking through the place.”

“If only there were a place we could go to have
some fun!”

Such conversation is an example of what might
be heard on an otherwise quiet street corner of
a small rural community when a group of young
people get together to plan an evening’s recreation.
Chances are they will end up spending the evening
at the village soda fountain—if they are fortunate
enough to be in a village where there is one—or
riding around in their cars 'or pick-ups, looking
for a little excitement.

Many rural communities are faced with the
problem of providing leisure-time aétivities for
their young people. In considering the problem,
the question might be asked, “Is this the responsi-
bility of the community or of the young people
themselves?” A combination of the two, particu-
larly if it means cooperation between youth and
adults, would be the most satisfactory. However,
there is a slight tendency for the young people to
expect someone else to furnish the means for their
recreation activities while, at the same time, many
adults look upon the problem as one to be solved
by those who feel the need for such facilities.

These two reactions leave the situation very sim—
ilar to that found in a game of doubles in ping—
pong when, as the ball approaches, the player on
the right thinks that the ball will be in the left-
hand court, and the player on the left thinks that
the ball will bounce in the right—hand court. Need-
less to say, the ball goes right on by, unreturned
to the opponents.

Such a situation need not be prevalent in a rural
community in which cooperation and understanding
between youth and adults exist. If the young peo-
ple feel that the need of a recreation center is
great enough, they should take definite steps to
see that one is provided. If the adults of the com—
munity wish to see their young people enjoy their
leisure time, possibly under the supervision of
qualified leaders, they should also take steps to see
that a good program is provided. Leaving the job
for someone else to do will mean a continued lack
of recreation facilities.

The question might then arise, “\Yhat steps can
be taken by either group?” It is the writer’s in-
tention to provide a few suggestions which might

RECREATION

be used as a starting point for establishing a rec-
reation center.

Even the very_smallest villages and hamlets can
provide recreation facilities acceptable to its young
pe0ple. A recent study of leisure-time activities
of 2 50 high school youth in a sparsely settled wheat
‘county in the eastern part of the State of Wash-
ington* showed that most of the activities which
the young people want included in a recreation cen-
ter program would be inexpensive, and would not
demand a large number of participants. Such
simple activities as dancing, ping—pong, badminton,
group singing, pool and billiards, square dancing,
or card playing could be carried on in a school, a
club house, a Grange hall or, many of the activi—
ties at least, in a church basement. Only one ac—
tivity—roller skating——wou1d be impractical in any
but the larger towns and cities., The young people
are not asking for the impossible. Their main dif—
{iculty is in finding a place (a room or a hall) in
which to carry on these activities. Once such a
place is made available the rest of the task would
be comparatively simple.

Barriers must be opened up in many communi-
ties. For instance, if the school is the only build—
ing in the neighborhood that is large enough to ac—
commodate the young people, then they must make
their needs and wishes known to the school board
or to the group which has. jurisdiction over this
property. If the women of the community have a
club house which is used only one or two days
during the week, the young people might appeal
to the women for the use of this house.

While the youth are presenting their side of the
picture, actually spending some time and giving
some thought to the project of establishing a rec—
reation center, the adults of the community can be
doing their part by discovering just what is needed
and desired and furnishing the leadership neces-
sary in establishing a well-organized, popular
center.

The financial burden may also be shared by
youth and adults alike. If the boys and girls are

willing to sacrifice their time in earning money to '

support a recreation center, many adults or adult
organizations should be willing to be responsible
for at least part of the linancial backing.
Cooperation between youth and adults is essen-
-tial in the establishment of a recreation center for
young people in a small rural community. Under-
standing alsotmust be present, and should stem
back to~the realization that the youth of today are
faced with much more leisure time than were those

 

* Carol Larson. “Leisure-Time Activities of Rural Youth in a
Sparser Settled Wheat County," Warbington Agricultural Experiment
Station Circular N a. 58, Pullman. Washington, December, 1947.

SEPTEMBER 1949

of a generation or so ago. They are not forced to
start working at an early age but are given an in—
creasing amount of freedom, such as being allowed
to use the family car several evenings during the
week or being allowed to choose their own forms of
recreation with little regulation by their parents.
Although rural families have been slower to fol-
low the lead of their city cousins in establishing
such a pattern, the urbanized customs are being
accepted more and more in rural areas.

The pattern may be further exemplified by point-
ing out that recreation is no longer accepted as a
family responsibility in many families. In such in—
stances, the responsibility must lie elsewhere. In
some large communities, commercial forms of rec-5
reation carry the responsibility; while in others
the school or the church furnish the chief means
of recreation. It is to the community which has'
not as yet found a group to carry the burden of
responsibility that this paper applies.

Shall adults carry the full burden of responsi—
bility? Shall the young people be given a recrea—
tion center as a gift, with little or no effort on their
own part to help establish it? If they take no re—
sponsibility in starting the center, they may feel
that they are not responsible for making the pro-
gram a success. Such an attitude might well lead
to failure of the entire project.

On the other hand, if everyone—the entire com—
munity—worked toward the establishment of a
recreation center (a center which could, in turn,
be used by everyone in the community), the re-
sponsibility would be shared by all. Both the
youngsters and adults could make use of the cen-
ter at various times, thus establishing a “Commu-

nity Recreation Center” from which all would
benefit.

  
    

   


llllllllplll“ ‘1 " ‘2‘“?

[I =2: :2—

 

 
 

The goal of a rural community—that youth have
adequate recreation facilities to fill leisure-time
hours—can be attained by all working together.

- 289

 

ROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES ARE important in a
P swimming pool program. Here they are ap-
proached from three different angles, rather than
from one: outside of the pool; inside the bath-
house; inside the pool. -

When I came to Marshalltown, Iowa, to take
‘ over the pool, it was then known as a “free” pool.
Everybody used it without paying a fee. Of course,
. when we introduced the idea of charging you can
imagine what we ran into. To show the people
that we would have something really outstanding,
I arranged to have the Governor of Iowa present
for the dedication of the pool. \Ve presented a
very fine program and pageant, including the latest
style bathing suits worn by attractive bathing girls.
This went over in a big way, and was followed by
an announcement of prices at the pool.

Rates were to be $15 for a family ticket for four;
$2 extra for every other person in the family; $8
for a season ticket, adult; $6 for a season ticket,
child; $5 for a family ticket—$6.50 value; $3 for
a child’s twenty-five swim ticket; $5 for an adult’s
twenty-five swim ticket; and $2 for a $2.50 ticket,
sold to any person who lived outside the city.
Swimming tickets were put on sale right away,
and before we officially opened the pool we had
sold over $800 worth. This, naturally, assured a

successful season.
Of course, there were complaints about the ad-

mission charge. To protect the mayor and others
on the committee, I set up a Courtesy Day, omit—
ting the word free entirely, knowing that as soon
as you say “free” people will tear the shingles off
the roof or knock out a window, because there is
no charge. Therefore, we use the term “Courtesy
Day,” and invite the boys and girls of the city for
a special treat.

We arrange for an outstanding speaker on each
Courtesy Day to talk to these boys and girls while
they are in the pool, thus enabling us to keep a
measure of control over them. The speech usually
lasts about ten minutes. The first speaker of this
'kind was Mr. Harvey, State Conservation Officer,
who gave a talk on furs and the fur-bearing ani-
mals of Iowa. He brought live animals with him,
and the children were enthralled.

These Courtesy Days are continued throughout

290

How to Publicize YUUB:

the entire summer, two a week, with as many as
800 to 1,000 persons attending. Nothing is being
lost by it. These children are learning to swim,
and during the past four years the financial balance
has increased each year.

A river passes through the park, so we organ-
ized a fishing derby. The Mayor agreed to be the
starter, the Judge of the Municipal Court to act
as head judge. The Chief of Police was the meas-
urer, and the judges were placed at fixed distances
on the banks of the river, within the park. Prizes
were offered for catching the‘ largest fish of any
species; and the derby was very successful.

At one time there were 400 women fishing.
Since that time, we have more women fishing in
and around Marshalltown than men. News of this
was carried in the London Daily Times, the Los °
Angeles Times, and was radioed out to sea. This
is good publicity.

\Ve have also arranged for band concerts.
Though the municipal band was available, we also
went out to the smaller cities within a thirty-mile
radius and invited the bandmasters to bring their
boys and girls on Sundays to have a swim, and
give us a concert near the pool. Thus we always
had some fine music, especially for those who
did not care to go swimming. \Ve not only wanted
to entertain parents, but knew that if they came
they would bring their children, and the children
would come into the pool.

For another activity outside of the pool, we
asked the Junior Chamber of Commerce to pur-
chase a new flag, which we raised on a large flag-
pole. Then I asked an insurance agent to buy two
to three thousand booklets telling all about flags
and flying them, which we distributed. Over 2,000
children attended our flag raising, making it a
wonderful spectacle. 'They entered into the spirit
wholeheartedly, and it was one of the finest things
I have ever seen.

\Ve constructed a large stage just in front of
the pool entrance, large enough to handle plenty
of actors, and invited different acts from surround— ‘
ing cities to perform on Sunday afternoons. They
put on a free show for those people who did not
want to go into the pool. We thereby interested
community people in coming to the park, and when

 

This material, presented at a convention of the National Association
of Parks. Pools and Beaches. won a plaque for the best paper. Con-
densed from Beach and Pool, January 1949.

RECREATION

SWIMMING PIIIIL

C. E. Daubert

that was accomplished, half of the battle was over.

Next, we made a little lagoon about forty yards
from the swimming pool, got permission to pump
water into it, and asked the state conservation peo-
ple for 5,000 bullheads. After they were released
in the lagoon, any boy or girl under fifteen years
of age was allowed to fish any time he or she
wanted to, and catch all the bullheads possible
without any cost. Of course, this was good public-
ity, and it wasn’t long before community people
forgot all about charges for use of the pool.

Another thing staged was a field day, with arch-
ery for boys and girls, men and women. We made
a place for buses to come into the park, and ac—
commodated sixty-two from all over the state.
Free entertainment included a rilie range where
youngsters were taught how to shoot, and a fiy
and bait casting tournament.

The State of Iowa had passed a law prohibiting
the shooting of fireworks. Well, I had always had
that privilege and realized just how much it meant
to the boys and girls. 80 I asked Mayor Dufiield
to take legal steps to permit us to use fireworks in
the park, and he agreed. He put on a great show,
and the first time we drew about 25,000 people to
our gates. Last time we attracted over 45,000 peo-
ple, using the fireworks display as the grand finale
at the end of a perfect day.

We stage bicycle races in the morning to get the
children to come to the park. We have used sand
left over from the 'filter to make sandboxes and
have hung swings from the trees, to make a nice
children’s playground. Mothers can.come here,
leave their children in the care of a registered
nurse, and then be free to go swimming them-
selves, free from worry.

Once in a While we stage a slumber party. We
install about 110 cots in the men’s and women’s
departments of our large bathhouse. All the girls
who want to come must have permission from
their mothers, and three mothers are assigned to
each of the departments. We put 125 prizes into
shoe boxes, each worth anywhere from ten cents
to $2. 50. The girls play bingo and other games,
and those winning have the opportunities for the
prizes.

All these young people, after a while, get onto
their cots to go to sleep. They know that later
during the night they will be awakened and al-

SEPTEMBER 1949

city.

lowed to go swimming, but they don’t know at
what time. From my home two miles away, I
telephone to the lady in charge at about 2:30 in
the morning. The whistles start blowing, and the
kids get the greatest thrill of their lives.

Reducing classes, too, go over like a million
dollars. There is no trouble at all in selling a $1 5’
ticket to a lady who is anxious to reduce. We
have large classes, some of our participants losing,
without diet, as much as forty-six pounds in three
months—and they enjoy themselves swimming
while doing it.

Young dancing instructors come to our swim-
ming pool and teach preliminary dancing lessons,
without charge to us. They are glad to cooperate
in this way because they feel they are developing
a future clientele. At one time any boy or girl
who would buy a $3 ticket, and pay cash in ad-
vance, was entitled to ten free tap-dancing lessons,
and many came.

Another‘ thing I have found of value is watching
the newspapers. When I see that there is going
to be a reunion of some kind I go to see the peo-
ple participating, or write them a letter saying
that we would like to have them come to the swim-
ming pool. We offer special rates; and to arrange
a program for them or to help in any other way
possible. We cover conventions in the same man-
ner. Even if delegates don’t care to go swimming,
they are often interested if there is going to be an
exhibition of some kind. In that way, too, I keep
my boys and girls in condition and interested. ’

We also have hairdressing classes and style
shows for children. We have found checker con-
tests popular, and have painted checkerboards on
our deck. Children are rewarded for regular at-
tendance. Perfect attendance for a month entitles
any boy or girl to a free airplane ride over the

With respect to promotional activities within
the pool itself, the learn-to-swim campaign always
comes first; and after you have taught your boys
and girls, graduation exercises can be held. At
one of these ceremonies the president of Iov'va
State College presented the certificates to the chil-
dren. There should be no trouble in getting the
superintendent of schools to do this at any time.
Remember, as long as you are doing things for
children you have the adults with you, and the
adults have the money. That’s all there is to it.

By using these activities you will be making
neWs. News means publicity, both printed and
verbal. As the ball starts rolling and interest in-
creases, many ideas for publicizing your swimming
pool will materialize.

291

 

292

Above: Conservation ofiicer W'alter L. Harvey operates slide
projector as youngsters absorb recorded conservation talk.

State Center school. children view especially equipped bus
during its five week tour. Live animals, fish are inside.

“Looky, what’s that?” Traveling unit was planned to bring
before public a few of the basic conservation principles.

In a few years these children, giving rapt attention, will
be responsible for conservation of our natural resources.

Lady, the exhibit’s coyote, undisturbed by the student
visitors, poses with serene dignity for the photographer.

 

Crave/[Izzy 61k

BELIEVING THAT “Conservation Can’t W ait,” t
show on a tour of schools. In five weeks, mor
trailer truck. Usually, commission employees a
dren, while the upper grades attend a thirty-mi:

It
onservation Commission of Des Moines, Iowa, has been sending a wildlife

000 school children have viewed the traveling exhibit, carried on a huge
s explain the various live fish and animal displays to the primary chil—

rvation talk—complete with slide proector—in the school assembly room.

 

An air View of ‘White Rock swimming beach in
Dallas, Texas. The property also is used for pic-
nicking, fishing, camping and horseback riding.

 

The Story of American Cities in Recreation

  

*’ THE TOWN COUNCIL of the thriving
young city of three thousand inhabitants
in Dallas, Texas, were pleased with themselves.
They had, with much finesse and no expense to the
town’s budget, ust completed a transaction where-
by the City of Dallas would acquire its first mu-
nicipal park!

Minute Book Number Two of the year 1876
records the offer of a ten-acre tract of land for the
purchase price of $700. The Town Council de-
sired this property but did not have the “purchase
price.” The records further reflect that the owner
agreed to lower the price by $100 in exchange for
keeping the “pest house,” a building used to house
all persons with smallpox, located on the property.
A civic-minded citizen agreed to pay $200 toward
the purchase of the property, leaving a $400 debt
for the city to assume. The Town Council then
offered to cancel taxes on all of the owner’s prop—
erties, not to exceed $100 a year, for a four-year
period. An ordinance was then prepared and

\

SEPTEMBER 1949

PART IV

 "as , TEXAS

LILLIAN SCHWERTZ

Supervixor of playground: and
recreation center: in Dalian.

adopted to this effect, and the act of obtaining the
first municipal park was completed.

In 1905 a Park Board, consisting of five mem-
bers, was created by charter amendment. At the
same time a ten cent tax on each $100 prop-
erty valuation was levied to be used for park pur—
poses. The board still derives its revenue for op-
erating many varied activities from this source.

It seems that most Texas cities which had cre-

ated parks maintained a very restrictive type of
control until well after the turn of the century. It
was not until 1907 that the park property pur-

' chased in 1876 was actually designated to be used

for playground purposes. In the Minutes of the
Park Board, the following action was recorded:
“The Park Board authorized the Park Superin-
tendent to use the hollow in City Park as a park
playground.”

Records Show that employment of one of the
first playground leaders, hired for the purpose of
supervising park playground activity, occurred in

295

1911, with the public informed by a sign placed at
the corner of the park—“PLAY PARK—AD-

MISSION FREE!”

In 1910, when the city’s population was less
than 100,000, the late George E. Kessler was em-
ployed to prepare a comprehensive city plan and
report, including recommendations for a park sys-
tem.

During the next several years, Dallas acquired
many additional parks and erected two centers,
which are in use at the present time. Early in
1913 a National Recreation Association worker
spent several days in Dallas, addressing civic or-
ganizations, to enlist support for a bond issue of
$500,000 for parks, playgrounds and boulevards.
The bonds were voted by the people. In 1920 a
director of parks and playgrounds was appointed.

Supervised summer playgrounds were initiated
in 1917. By the summer of 1923, twenty areas
were supervised.

The five—member Park Board is appointed by
the City Council for a term of two years, each
member serving without compensation. It is a
policy—making board.

The department divisions are:

1. Municipal Golf Courses—(three IS-hole;
one 9—hole)

2. Municipal Swimming Pools

3. Playgrounds and Recreation Centers'

4. Municipal Athletics

5. Zoo

6. Fair Park Civic ‘Center which includes:
a. Aquarium
b. Museum of Fine Arts
c. Hall of State
d. Health Museum
e. Museum of Natural History
f. Ainphitheater—(Operettas under the

stars ten weeks each summer)

7. White Rock and Bachman properties,
which include boating, picnicking, fishing,
camping and bridle paths.

296

 

8. Forestry, which includes maintenance of
all boulevard, street and park trees.

9. Park Patrol

10. Maintenance and Operations

In 1923 and 1924, L. H. Weir of the National
Recreation Association’s district field staff worked
with the Dallas Park Board in its efforts to pro-
vide a special recreation division in the park de-
partment with a qualified recreation director to
supervise the work. Continuously, the Associa-
tion has given field service to Dallas and, in addi-
tion, one or more recre'ation Specialists from the
Association’s staff have gone into Dallas, by re-
quest, to help with the expansion and enrichment
of various phases of the public park and recreation
programs.

At the present time, the City of Dallas, with a
population of 478,000, has a total park area of ap-
proximately 5,500 acres. Thirty—five percent of
the total area is devoted to small parks, distributed
throughout neighborhood communities. Nineteen
park areas represent gifts, totaling 1,417.7 acres.
The most recent gift totaled nearly 1,000 acres.
Tenison Park, totaling 124.5 acres and featuring
one of the 18-hole golf greens, and Kiest Park,
with 247% acres, are two other large park areas
given to the park system by civic-minded citizens.

The entire Park and Recreation Department
personnel, which includes maintenance labor, is
comprised' of approximately 300 employed on a
year-round basis, with 300 additional employees
during the summer months. The Recreation Di—
vision, exclusive of golf course managers, Fair
Park Museum directors and directors of the vari-
ous large park areas and rental buildings, has a
year—round staff of thirty persons. They include
the superintendent of recreation, assistant super—
intendent of recreation, supervisor of playgrounds
and recreation centers, supervisor of athletics, Ne—
gro supervisor, projector operator, twenty—one rec-
reation leaders and a special baseball supervisor.
During the summer months, five special supervi-
sors and sixty-five recreation leaders are employed

. RECREATION

Hardwood floors being laid
in the Automobile, Aviation
and Recreation Building re-

cently opened at Fair Park.

for the fifty-four supervised playgrounds. An ad-
ditional 140 persons are employed for the eight
municipal pools.

The Park Patrol has a regular staff of nine men,
with ten additional officers working part-time.
These men, including the chief of the patrol, are
in uniform and use four squad cars to patrol the
park system. ‘

The park and recreation budget for the current
fiscal year, October I, 1948 to September 30, 1949,
is $I,1 5 5,598. This total budget includes the ten
cents on every $100 ad valorem taxes, and income
from non—tax sources such as golf, rentals, reserva-
tions, swimming pools, boat licenses, boat house
rentals, fishing permits, concessions, interest on
bank balance, reimbursements, transfers and others.

The recreation program of the Dallas system is
Operated on a'year-round basis, with seasonal. ac—
tivities highlighting the routine program. The
summer participation program is, of course, many
times greater than that of the fall and winter pro-
grams. ‘Twelve recreation centers are operated
continuously, with an additional forty-two play-
grounds supervised during June, July and August.
The summer program is operated five days each
week, Mondays through Fridays, from eight-thirty
am. to eleven—thirty am. and from three pm. to
eight pm. on all playgrounds—with the exception
of the centers and grounds with lighted ball dia-
monds. These areas remain open until ten-thirty
in the evening.

A woman leader and a man leader on the ma-

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

jority of the playgrounds follow' a program of
handcrafts, storytelling, dancing, minor games and
contests, picture shows, community programs, ath-
letics, swimming, nature study and special activi-
ties. City-wide competition is held in the different
age-division leagues in softball, baseball, horse-
shoes, washers, croquet and swimming. A city-
wide Junior One-Act Pla'y Tournament is an an-
nual dramatic event during the summer, and a-
Senior Play Tournament is held each winter.

Ten Clubhouses, operated on a reservation basis,
accommodate various groups in such activities as
teen—age dances, socials, teas, book reviews, re-
unions, graduation exercises and square dances.
Six hundred and sixty-six reservations were made
during the first six months of the current fiscal
year, with 74,784 persons participating in the ac—
tivities offered.

Programs for older persons have always been
stressed by the Dallas Recreation Department.
Square dancing is the most popular social activity
for this group, with hundreds of “golden agers”
enjoying the companionship of persons their own
age in dancing, parties and congenial conversation.
Older men are provided club rooms for domino
and checker games. Roque, croquet, horseshoe.
and shuffleboard facilities are also provided, and
are enjoyed by thousands of older persons.

The municipal athletic-program includes soft—
ball, basketball, soccer and baseball. Four hundred
and fifty church, commercial and independent soft-
ball teams and 200 playground teams keep the

297

seventy-two softball and baseball diamonds in con-
stant use. Twenty-live of the softball diamonds
and one hardball diamond are lighted for night
play. These lighted diamonds are strategically lo—
cated throughout the city, offering many commu-
nities the opportunity of seeing exciting ball games
almost any time they may desire to do so.
Basketball participation jumped from 100 teams
with 54,000 spectators during the 1947-48 season
to 250 teams with 132,700 spectators during the
1948-49 season. This increased interest was at-
tributed to the opening of the new Automobile,
Aviation and Recreation Building in Fair Park,
which housed all basketball play on its seven bas-
ketball courts. The building is 750 x 1-13 feet in
the middle without an obstruction. Bleachers 0n
the major court accommodate 5,060 fans. Two
tennis and eight badminton courts are available
for play inside the building. Other activities were
also successfully conducted in the new building,
including boxing, with 19,250 spectators attending
three tournaments, angling and special programs,
and the annual square dance festival which drew
6,000 dancers and spectators. The building con-
tains comfortable locker and shower rooms for
men and women, forty blower-type heating units,
and twelve large ventilating fans. This building
is used by the Dallas Recreation Department from
November to April and is then turned over to the
State Fair Association for the remaining months.

An annual event in
Dallas, the Junior One-
act Play Tournament
is held out-of-doors,

using a portable stage.

298

Tennis is a very popular sport and is played on
a year-round basis. Sixty of the 100 courts are
maintained at all times, and there is no charge
for their use. However, players are required to
furnish their own nets and balls. Local tourna-
ments are conducted, and the winners in the junior
and senior divisions compete in the State Texas
Amateur Athletic Federation Tournament.

Outstanding special activities include boat re-
gattas, Fourth of July fireworks at White Rock
Lake, golf tournaments, tennis tournaments, water
pageants, one-act play tournaments, city-wide play-
days, square dance festivals, operettas, swimming
meets, exhibition basketball, baseball, soccer and
softball games, fishing rodeos, boxing tournaments
and many other playground contests.

 

“A city to be great does not need to be large or
rapidly growing. But it should be a place in which
people are happy to live and work. It should have
a perSonality and a civic pride in that personality.
It should create out of the raw materials of its
resources, physical and human, satisfactions which
are abiding and permanent. Only if the social and
economic foundations of a community are secure,
and its governmental organization sound, can a
city grow to real greatness.”—C. A. Dykstra in
Illmiicipal Activities of City of Cincinnati, Ohio.

 

RECREATION

Suggestions for Promoting

 

HALLOWEEN PARTIES

National Halloween Eommittoe of New York City

RGANIZATIQN OF your Community Halloween
Party Committee will, of course, depend. on
your personal methods of working. Whether you
prefer it to be made up solely of public officials or
wish to enlist public-spirited individuals and or-
ganizations is a matter for your judgment.
However, one committee is a MUST for the suc—
cess of your party. That is a publicity and promo-
tion committee. This committee should have the
task of bringing the community Halloween party
to public attention. We suggest the committee do
this through the following procedure:

1. Call upon the woman’s page editors of your
local papers, with the story of the event. Suggest
that they feature stories with games and recipe
ideas for home parties, using your plans as an ex—
ample. Also submit articles on the importance of
planned celebrations to prevent vandalism and
brushes with the law.

2. Meet with the program director of your local
radio station, providing him with material for wo—
men commentators and for special programs of in-
terest to the young people of your community.

3. Visit the city editors of your local papers. Tell
them your Halloween party plans to help combat
juvenile delinquency. Provide them with“copies of
any literature or posters you have and, most im—
portant, invite them to have a reporter and photog—
rapher not only at the party itself, but at your
various meetings when making plans for the party.

4. Suggest to local bakers that they feature spe—
cial window displays of typical Halloween bakery
goods, using your posters as background.

SEPTEMBER 1949

5. Suggest to local grocers that they set up Hal-
loween party displays in their stores to show hos-
tesses what they can serve. Here again ask that
your posters be used as background.

5. Arrange with local theatres to have posters
announcing your party and special Halloween dis-
plays in their lobbies.

7- Suggest to promotion directors and managers
of local department stores, which may be planning
special October windows with a Halloween motif,
that they include your posters in their windows.
Some stores may be interested in working out sim-
ilar tie-ups with displays of typical Halloween
tables in their furniture, food, or linen departments.

8. Meet with leaders of your community yOuth
centers, asking that your party be announced on
their bulletin boards,

9. Keep editors of local high school papers in-
formed of your party, with releases for their pa-
pers. Invite the youngsters to form committees to
help you make and put up decorations.

 Invite the merchants of your town to sponsor
a Halloween Queen Contest among teen-age girls
of the community. The winner would be officially
crowned at your Halloween party.

 Call upon leaders of civic and church groups
to join in helping to plan and promote the party.
They can also help make it known to the young
people whom they serve. Explain to them the civic
purpose behind the Halloween party.

299

HALLOWEEN ! The one evening a year
to which young and old alike look for—
ward, anticipating fun and frolic, while police chiefs
ponder on the vandalism that might be done and
hire extra policemen to try to combat it. How to
have the first premise, eliminating the second, is a
challenge that all recreation departments should
have accepted years ago. “7 e in Provo, Utah, ac-
cording to the police chief, have successfully met it.

‘ Changing attitudes must be dealt with. As one

 

tickets in it, each color admitting the bearer to an
activity. All entered the school building through
the shop. There the tnnnel of horrors (following
a rope) led them over springs, past weird noises,
terrible odors, and clammy pressures, and out
through a door with an electrified knob. W hat
squeals of delight and excitement!

There were nineteen additional activities: danc-
ing to a juke box in the gym, which had been at-
tractively decorated; ping-pong, fish-pond—stu-

OECIIV Nlef/r IN UTAH

adult put it, “The pranks that are considered de-
linquency now, we played as good jokes when I
was a boy.” Or, as was overheard of one vocifer-
ous mother, “Here is your wax and soap, but if
any get on my windows, I’ll’whale tar out of you !"

In Provo, we met first with the school princi-
pals, presented our problem, and asked for their
help. Almost all the schools had some plans for
Halloween, so they agreed to stage a special cele-
bration. Each school considered its facilities, per-
sonnel and children, and planned an independent
festival. The recreation department provided ap-
ples and prizes for costumes and games and also
assisted with the plans when called upon.

The program varied with each school. The grade
schools held an after-school party for the kinder-
garten through third grade children. They played
games, sang, and listened to stories and musical
numbers. The fourth through sixth graders had
parties in the early evening from six to nine pm.

One junior high school had a loud sock dance.
After their entrance through a chamber of horrors,
all the boys and girls had to take off their shoes
and spend the rest of the evening—-——from six to
nine p.m.—in their stocking feet! Prizes were
awarded for the gayest socks. There was dancing
in the gym, games in various rooms, movies in an-
other, and ghost stories—the principal was an ex-
cellent storyteller—in still another.

One junior high assigned the Halloween enter-
tainment problem to its student council as a major
project, and they devised the following plan.

Each student was given a book with twenty

30."!

Jessie Schofield

dents had brought cast-off jewelry and the like for
prizes, magic writing and, beg of all, refreshments
—doughnuts and apple cider. These were served
in the cooking room, and only a limited number of
party-goers were admitted at a time.

The Teen Kanteen was host to the high school
students. They held a loud sock dance——with
shoes on this time—featuring a regular orchestra
and a floor show.

For those above school age, the recreation de-
partment asked the assistance of the churches. In
each section of the city, parties were held in
churches, and the young adults had a wonderful
time.“ These parties also began with the tunnel
of horrors, and dancing was the main interest of
the evening, although-fortune-telling, ducking for
apples, and other Halloween games were played.

For all parties, including those at home, a book-
let of Halloween games and fun had been prepared,
available at cost through the recreation office.

\Vas the program a success? As one person put
it: “One can only be in one place at a time. If
the young people are having fun at a party, they
can’t be in mischief elsewhere.” The police chief
put it more strongly: “There was 110 vandalism.”

It was a c00perative affair—one that will be re-
peated in the future. This year, there’ll be more
prizes and refreshments because the Elk’s Club
wishes to contribute to the program. Planned well
in advance, and with each unit responsible for its
own party, the entire community was served.

Mir: S chofield i: Provo’: Superintendent of Recreation.

RECREATION

A New Idea by DAPHNE DARLING STERN

N MANY PARTS of the country, Halloween is a
I night when children dress up in their weirdest
or fanciest costumes and sally forth to commune
with spirits and hobgoblins; Formerly, it was the
greatest of fiendish pleasures to play naughty, and
sometimes costly, tricks on people and their prop-
erty. In recent years the custom has changed more
or less just to “trick and‘treating,” whereby the
children ring doorbells and bribe the householder
for goodies.

In 1947, however, a plan was conceived to per-
mit the children of Palo Alto, California, to have
their fun and yet accomplish an unselfish mission,
as well, by giving up their superabundance of treats
and collecting notion items for EurOpe’s needy in—
stead. It was called the Halloween Treasure Hunt.
As usual, the youngsters donned their costumes and
roamed the dark streets ringing doorbells, but in-
stead of asking for treats for themselves, they asked
for as many of the following items as the household-
er had on hand for the occasion: buttons, needles
and pins in their paper wrappers, thread,_ snaps,
shoelaces, elastic and thimbles.

These items were then stowed away in the
Treasure Hunters’ specially prepared bags and off
they went to the next house, and so on. The fol—
lowing morning these “bags of loot” were collected
in a central place where they were subsequently
sorted, packed and shipped to the American
Friends Service Committee, who distributed them
in Europe and in Asia at their work centers.

The plan was sponsored by the Palo Alto Board
of Education, the Parent-Teacher groups and civic
and church organizations throughout the city.
Newspapers provided an enthusiastic stream of
news items and editorials, and announcements
were made over the local radio stations. Stores
carried ads, displays and offered “specials” on the
desired articles. Although it was impossible to
calculate the exact number of children who took
part, we do know that 1,400 pounds of these spe—
cial articles were collected.

In the schools several devices were employed to
intrigue the children’s interest in this variation of
Halloween. For one, all the would-be friendly
imps received sheets that carried instructions for
the fun. The instructions were in verse, and on
the sheets were cut—out jack-o’-lanterns which the
children colored and put on each door after re-
ceiving gifts (so no householder would be solicited
twice). Secondly, the idea was “talked-up” at

 

Reprinted from California Parent-Teacber.

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

:-

school and home. Third, special stories were
written by a child’s story author, Catherine Urban,
which were read and dra‘matized by the children
at school. Fourth, Official Halloween Treasure
Hunt Bags were printed and distributed along
with other literature.

The financing for this project was divided among
various organizations. For example, one group
paid for the paper for the mimeographed notices
that were sent to the parents through the schools;
another for the printing of the bags. Others con—
tributed funds for shipping costs. Palo Alto towns-
folk, parents, educators and police expressed in-'
terest in the success of this campaign and were
pleased with the results for several reasons:

I. It gave the whole community a philanthropic
objective which spread an aura of goodness and
happy smiles around the little “goblins.”
2. The children’s stomachs were in far better shape
the next day!
3. The mischief incidence was greatly reduced.
As another Halloween approaches, it is h0ped
that many communities will adopt this idea, or
even a variation, because the need for these articles
is as acute or even more so -in certain areas despite
governmental or other agency aid'. If your school
and community decide to undertake this fine proj—
ect this year, write to the American Friends Serv—
ice Committee, 1830 Sutter Street, San Francisco

'15, California. A copy of the verse instructions

and the special stories used in Palo Alto’s pro-
gram is available on request.

(Last year mischief also stepped aside for mercy
in Mentor, Ohio. Children collected loot for a
needy Finnish community—Ed.)

301

o BEHIND the many organizations concerned with
the welfare of children lies one common tenet: any
person who assumes responsibility for the care of
a child automatically assumes re5ponsibility to care
for him completely. That means he must be cared
for physically, mentally, spiritually, and emotion—
ally. The hospital readily accepts this philosophy
and gives consideration to a sick child’s physical
needs. Recent legislation, and the presence of
teachers in the hospital, are evidence of an attempt
to meet the sick child’s mental needs. \Vhile re-
.sponsibility for meeting a child’s Spiritual'needs is
vested in his family and in his church, the hospital
makes provision for the ministration of religious
ritual, and c00perates with church and family in
this matter. However, when one asks how the
hospital meets the emotional needs of its young
patients, the answer is not so clearly defined.

Who Meets the Child’s Emotional Needs?

Representative hospital personnel, chosen at ran-
dom from various hospitals, were asked, “\Vhat
plan has the hospital to provide care for a child’s
emotional needs?” Their responses provide food
for thought.

Hospital administrator: “\V e have our neuro-
psychiatric division and neuropsychiatric special-
ists on the staff who care for that end of it.”

Psychiatrist: “\Ve see only behavior problems
and others presenting definite deviation from nor-
mal, and we treat them according to their diag-
nosis.”

Pediatrician: “\V ell, of course, that’s not my
field. If I think that there is something wrong, I
refer them to the psychiatric service for study.
The others? Oh, when they are just nervously
upset, the nurse is the best one to comfort them,
just as their mother does at home.”

Head nurse: “Frankly, I have too much desk
work to do to get down to individual cases. The
students are taught to give them something to do.
There’s always plenty of people around, and they
soon get over it.”

Student nurse: “\Vell, if they cry, I try to stop
them. Of course, I try to explain that what is be-
ing done is for their own good and that they’ll
be better soon. But honestly, I’m usually too busy
to fool with them much. The occupational thera-
pist is supposed to keep themquiet at this time of
day.”

Occupational therapist: “The occupational ther-

Miss Davidson (Broadlawns Polk County, Des Moines;
3.3., Boston University) is a teaching-fellow, Boston
University School of Nursing, Division of Pediatrics.

302

apist can do a lot because she is the only person
who neither hurts the child nor forces him to do
something he doesn’t want to do. We are on the
ward one-and-a-half to two hours daily except
Saturday and Sunday, but we can’t go to a child
if the school teacher is there. He must do his
school work, so she gets the preference.”

Teacher: “The law provides that a sick child
may have up to three hours of teaching per week.
Obviously, with my load, I can’t give any extra
time to a child, but when I find one who is upset,
I give him some work to do which I know he
likes and which I am reasonably sure he can mas-
ter. Sometimes I just give him a pencil and paper
and let him draw.” ,

From these answers, it would seem that very

EBAY"

little real consideration is given to the matter of
emotional care for the hospitalized child, and that
equally little is being done to preserve his emo—
tional health. The answers to our question, as well
as the paucity of reporter research and other pub-
lished material in the field, seems to indicate a
need for wide study and active organization to—
ward more complete care for the child.

The same question was reworded and put to
the other two people most intimately concerned—
the mother and the child.

A mother was asked, “What do you do for your
child when he gets emotionally upset?”

Mother: “I let him know I love him and send
him outdoors to play; or else I let him help me
clean up the house. He loves to beat the rug by
the door when he’s mad.”

Because a child does not always use language to
express his feelings, it was felt that a wider sam-
pling would be more representative. Therefore, the
question was asked of ten children between the
ages of five and eleven and one—half years.

The children were asked, “What do you do when
things don’t go right?” Their replies follow:

Children: “I cry and scream.” “I get mad and
cuss.” “I throw my shoes and my toys.” “I beat
up the other kids.” “I spank my dolly and then
I put her to bed.” “Cry, I guess.” “I frow ever’-
thing out th’ window.” “Nuthin’, I just‘sit and
cool off.” “I tell Mama on it.” “I go outside and

I
RECREATION

kick the dirt.” (This was the child of the mother
questioned.)

The children’s answers indicate their need to
express dissatisfactions in a physical manner, and
they all tend toward the aggressive pattern. 5 If
this is a sample of the way a child behaves at home
under emotional stress, what does he substitute in
the hospital where tensions are increased and
physical activity is decreased?

Has the Hospital a Special Obligation?

During this investigation, the inquirer was asked
four different times, “Just why does the hOSpital
have a special obligation to provide for the emo—

tional care of its patients? Everyone is upset when _

he has to go to the hospital.”

E. RITA DAVIDSON, R.N.

those who plan and those who execute it, if their
efforts are to be helpful to the patient. They must
comprehend the needs in each individual situation
and be aware of all the possible effects of any pro-
posed plan. “A child in illness and convalescence
is experiencing the same emotions as in health,
and on occasion may be happy, worried, Optimis-
tic, depressed, fearful, anxious, hopeful, resentful,
and so on.” 1

By the age of two years, children have the abil—
ity to develop all the defenses known to adults;
they have a remarkable capacity for suppressing
feelings and not showing anxiety. When sepa—

for the HospitaliZed Child

That is just the reason! Admission to the hos-
pital imposes and increases tensions and resent-
ments in the child and he has not received full and
adequate care until they have been legitimately dis-
sipated. While it recognizes that a youngster’s
greatest security is in his home and family ties, the
hospital'suddenly separates him from both. He is
placed in a strange bed, in a strange room, sur-
rounded by strange people, and submitted to
strange and often painful treatments. He neither
understands nor feels equal to seeking the reason,
even if he is able to do so. His whole being re-
bels; and yet, when he feels least like giving it,
the utmost cooperation is expected of him. Such
conflict results in an unhappy hOSpital experience
which may or may not have a permanently trau-
matizing effect upon his personality.

Today there is an increasing awareness of the
important role of attitudes and emotions and their
contributions to the life and well—being of every
individual. Consequently, one would expect to
find in every hospital which provides care for chil-
dren an active program aimed toward helping the
child to make a better adjustment in the hospital
and to lessen the possibility of permanent emo—
tional trauma as a sequel to physical illness.

Understanding the Child’s Emotional Needs

In the field of child care, where the recipient
cannot verbally express his needs, the introduction
of any program imposes a specific obligation upon

J'

SEPTEMBER 1949

rated from home and family, the child often fears
a permanent loss of love and loss of mother. Such
feelings are very intense, and although he tries to
suppress them, they are finally exhibited in an
explosive manner. This explains why a child who
has appeared to be well-adjusted in the hospital
cries as soon as he sees his mother on visiting day.

In this connection, it is well to remember that
although the child is the patient, we who care for
him are dealing with a mother-child relationship
and every conflict arises within it. Therefore,
while the youngster finds relief in his tears, a ten-
sion is created in his mother which, in turn, is
communicated back to the child through his moth—
er’s concern for his happiness, and he is left with
a new feeling of uneasiness and emotional stress.

When a child has been under emotional strain
or physical trauma, no matter what the origin, he
expresses it in his total behavior, often in the form
of wetting, soiling, and baby ways. Thus he re-
verts to the age when he knew happiness, safety,
and security. Security means, “I know where I
belong, where I am wanted and loved.” It is per-
sonal and individual. Moreover, it is wrapped up
in a constant reassurance of unchanging affection,
consistent discipline, and a sense of peace and per-
manence, communicated on a physical rather than

an intellectual level.
The reason for a child’s insecurity in the hos-

 

l Senn, Milton, J. E.: Emotional Aspecrs of Convalescent Care for
Children, The Child, Vol. 10, p. 24 (Aug) 1945.

303

 

Above: Play can be effective even where limited.
Below: Playroom affords chance to learn group play.

pital is very clear, because these assurances are not
duplicated outside of home and family life. The
average adult can usually lessen the severity of
his emotional pain by telling others what he has
suffered, but a child’s vocabulary and methods of
self-expression are not fully deveIOped, and he can—-
not find relief in words. He does not know how
to lean on others—#friends, nurses, and the like.
His one medium of eXpression which is self-satis—
factory is his play life.

The adult considers play an elective activity, as
opposed to the compulsory activity he calls work ;
but the child makes no such distinction. For the
child, play is a serious business, a response to the
deep emotional urges which form the basic origins
of behavior; this normal activity of childhood,
therefore, is a most meaningful form of self—ex-
pression. This fact has made play a very powerful
tool for understanding and learning about children.

\\'e have discovered also that through play, the
child learns about his world and about his imme-
diate environment; he learns how to adjust to his
fellow men; he comprehends the nature of his prob-
lems and resolves them in play; and, at the same
time, he dissipates tensions and finds relaxation.

 

This article is based on a study conducred at Bosron University dur-
ing the academic year 1947-1948. Reprinted by permission of The
American Journal of Netting, from March. 1949.

304

The Tools of Play

Clara Lambert says, “Since one of the purposes
of play is to make a bridge between the child’s
conscious thoughts and his inner emotions, the
tools by which he accomplishes this require special
consideration.” 2

The tools of play fall into four categories:
language, muscular activity, imaginative projec-
tion, and props. Language can be a source of great
enjoyment and wonder. It lends itself to variation
and repetition to create new patterns, such as
humpety, bumpety, lumpety, mumpety. The musi-
cal rhythm and nonsense of nursery rhymes afford
pleasure in words for their own sake. The young
child makes up sounds or “words” to fit his play
such as, “ch00, ch00, choo,” “boom, bang,” and the
like. Later on he uses words to tell fanciful stories,
and, immediately, misunderstanding adults label
them lies or falsehoods and inhibit the child by
their disapproval. Thereafter, language is quickly
limited as an agent of self-expression and play,
and becomes, instead, the medium for delivering
content and factual information of the mind.

Muscular activity and movement are used in all
forms of play. The little girl with her dolls and
the little boy with his trains animate their play
through their own muscular activity. “7 hen a child
seems to be molding a piece of clay aimlessly, or
when he pounds it to nothingness, he is using
muscular energy to provide a healthy release for
his inner feelings. \Vhen he draws or paints, his
muscular activity serves him as well as if he were

running, jumping, or shouting on the playground.

Imaginative projection can be healthy or the re-
verse. Pure imagination, such as identifying with
a fairy or the hero of a story, is often found; but
more often it is combined with the use of props,
and, in this realm, deep and lasting significance is
realized. Many studies have shown that the child
recreates symbolically whatever has made a deep
impression upon him in actual life, whether pleas—
ant or unpleasant. To an adult, he appears to be
playing; to himself, he is solving his difficulties.

“Prop” is a term applied to the physical mate—
rials which lend themselves to creative play, in
contrast to toys, which do not. To qualify in this
category, material must be usable in a variety of
ways. The mechanical doll which the child winds
up, watches dance until it runs down, and then
winds up again, is an example of a toy. It does
not lend itself to a variety of usage. The basic
props include blocks, paints, crayons, and blank
paper known as newsprint; chalks which can be

 

2-I.:tmbert, Clara: Play. A Yardrtick of Growth, New York, Play
Schools Association, 1938. p. 27.

RECREATION

used on paper or blackboard; clay and its substi-
tutes, which can be built up and broken down,
pounded, hammered, and pinched ; dolls and pup-

pets.

Whatever his feelings, fears,. tensions, resent-
ments or joys, the child expresses them violently,
and clay is the one prop most adaptable to his
mood. He reduces his problem to a size which he
can master, and then expresses his feeling toward
it. Obviously, the child does not set out to achieve

this mastery when he starts to play. Most likely, '

he has no idea or plan; he just plays, more or less
aimlessly, and lets the whole situation evolve.

Thus, the significance of free access to play mate-
rials, with time and opportunity to use them when
the inclination arises, will be readily apparent.

Of the four categories of play tools, the adult
is responsible for supplying only one—-—the prop.
Language, motion, and imagination are supplied
by the child himself as he plays. Moreover, the
adult is just another prop in the play picture. He
can represent an ogre, a witch, a fairy godmother,
or My Man Friday. He is never the hero or hero-
ine ; that role is reserved for the child.

Report of Study of Play Experiences

A statistical study3 of the play experience of
twenty—nine children reveals several points worthy
of consideration. Like the hospital in which the

study was made, other institutions will be ques- '

tioning the effectiveness of their own play program
and methods of evaluating and improving it. The
findings can be formulated into a list of criteria
which provide the yardstick for measuring a play
program and also suggest adjustments.

The study indicates that not all play will pro-
vide emotional release, even though carefully
planned. To be effective as a means of emotional
adjustment, the play program must be formulated
with the child’s need as the central objective; it
must be so developed as to afford him. a maximum
of creative opportunity; and it muSt be so organ-
ized, that it is available to the child at the time
when he feels the need iof it. The. concept of play,
as an integral part of good nursing 'care, is entirely
compatible with these principles.

, The study also shows that any play program is
dependent upon the adequacy of the nursing staff.
Shortage in nursing personnel‘is only one phase
of staff inadequacy; proper balance of experience

 

3Davidson, B. RitarA Study of Play for the Hospitalized Child,
1948. Unpublished.

SEPTEMBER 1949

and maturity is equally important. In fact, a staff
of rare maturity is essential in certain situations.

Qualifications commensurate with the position
held are essential to good organization, and the
hospital is no exception. Related to the play pro—
gram, this means that each person caring for a
child is responsible for him as a whole person and
should be adequately prepared to give whatever at-
tention he needs. The nurse should be able to pro-
vide adequate play experience for the child when
he needs it and when he is at liberty to enjoy it.
However, just as the nurse needs a knowledge of
play skills and technics, so the play director needs
a knowledge of the basic principles of child care
in order to guide the student nurses and other
workers whom she directs.

A play program can provide the student nurse
with a great deal of learning experience and under-
standing of human beings when she is allowed to
participate actively. Play is such a basic part of

 

children that it seems almost impossible to teach
good pediatrics without it. Because it is so basic
to him, the child should have free access to any
form of play which is not prohibited by his illness.

Essentials of a Hospital Play Program

The following requirements are suggested as es-
sentials for an effective play program for the hos-
pitalized' child: '

I. A nursing staff adequate for the patient load.

2. A director of the play program who-is pre-.
pared and qualified in child guidance and play
technics.  '

u ‘ '

3. Recognition of the play program as an essen-
tial part of the student nurse’s total pediatric ex—
perience.

4. A flexible program planned to permit chil- '
dren to benefit from it whenever they are free to
do so.

305-

 

Strike three!

Lots to Do—In the heart of the most con-
gested residential section of Port Chester, New
York, there is to be found a haven for young peo-
ple of the community—the Don Bosco Center—-
which is also the home of many clubs and commu-
nity organizations. Founded twenty-four years
ago by the Holy Rosary Church, the aim of the
center is to develop the moral, spiritual and phys-
ical qualities of youth according to the principles
laid down by St. John Bosco many years ago.

Always brimming with activity, the center’s pro-
gram is in the hands of competent staff members.
' Boys and girls may learn printing in the complete
print shop, make household furniture or toys in
the well—equipped woodworking shop, read for re-
laxation or do their homework in the library, at-
tend meetings or programs in the large lecture
room, or take part in the editing and publishing
of the center newspaper. For the more athletically
inclined there are many facilities, including a
gymnasium, and a competitive sports program is
conducted. Table games are enjoyed in the recrea-
tion room.

0

No Age Limit—Every Tuesday afternoon,
rain or shine, members of the Retired Men’s Club
of Teaneck, New Jersey, gather in the Teaneck
Town House to sing old songs, play checkers,
dominoes, bridge or pinochle, and enjoy an enter-
taimnent program and refreshments. Sometimes
they meet in the park to play croquet or pitch
horseshoes; sometimes they go in cars to a broad-
cast in New York City; sometimes they go to
church in a body. The group’s twenty-eight mem-
bers range in age from sixty to eightyvsix.

Sponsored by the Teaneck Department of Rec-
reation, the club is a part of the township’s pro-
gram to provide recreation for citizens of all ages.
A similar club for older women meets on Thurs-

day afternoons.
o

Schoel Program—Recreation provides a vital
part of everyday living in the California Youth
Authority’s Los Guilucos School for Girls, located
between Sonoma and Santa Rosa in the Valley of

306

70% at 27544;

the Moon. \Vith individual as well as group ac-
tivities planned, the recreation program features
weekly motion pictures, monthly birthday parties,
dances, swimming, baseball, group games, picnics,
amateur hours, library reading, radio listening,
handcraft and table games.

Members of the Los Guiluces Girls’ Glee Club
and Folk Dancing Club are invited to participate
in programs carried on by various service clubs,
lodges, women’s clubs, churches, hospitals, and
Armstrong Grove on the Russian River. The so—
ciability found in these recreation activities aids
1n the girls’ adjustment to social relationships.

Planning Their Own——Angered by reports of

unsanitary conditions in their section of New York
City, students of the James Otis Junior High
School in Harlem investigated for themselves.
They found that the garbage accumulation in va-
cant lots was even worse than the newspapers’
description of the condition.
‘ One lot was in particularly bad shape. How-
ever, the owner was glad to cooperate in a clean-up
campaign. After the refuse was gathered and col-
lected, he was so impressed with the new appear-
ance of his property he offered to permit the chil-
dren to use it for whatever purpose they wished.

The youngsters held a meeting and decided that
they wanted a playground with sprinkler installa-
tions during the summer and basketball facilities
for the fall. The Borough President’s oflice con-
sented to pave the lot; the Police Athletic League
offered to donate large, circular sprinklers; then a
local plumber volunteered to install the equipment
at no charge. Now the project is under way——
and when it’s finished the children of that neigh-
borhood will have some place to play instead of
wading in the gutter under the spray of illegally
opened fire hydrants.

o

Bonhre Parties—An old-fashioned Halloween
was observed in Syracuse last year, with huge bon-
lire parties at outdoor play areas. Gathering at
four city parks, the young folks paraded in costume
and competed for prizes; the in-betweeners round
and square danced to recorded music; and the
older folks exchanged stories of previous Hallo-
ween’s. Everyone took part in the ceremonial
lighting of the bonhre, and the snake dance.

A troupe of traveling entertainers, including a
barbershop quartet and a musical ensemble, made
the round of all the parties. The whole program
was a c00perative one—neighbors helped gener-
ously; the park department provided bonfire pyra-
mids ; the fire department furnished mobile light-
ing and a siren; and the police were on hand to
control traflic.

RECREATION

Ernest Ten Eyck Attwell

RNEST TEN EYCK ATTWELL, of the National

Recreation Association, died on August 5,
while en route from a service assignment at Syra-
cuse to his home in Montclair, New Jersey, to
start his summer vacation. Mr. Attwell, affection-
ately known as “ET.” to countless friends and fel-
low workers allover the country, was born in
New York City seventy years ago. His mother
was a leader in social and charitable affairs. His
father was rector of St. Philip’s« Protestant Epis-
copal Church in New York City,
one of the largest and oldest
churches in Harlem.

Following his early education
in New York City and Brook-
lyri, Ernest Attwell spent about
eight years working in the office
of the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, where he acquired the
insight into business methods
and management which was to
prove valuable to him through-
out his life. Soon after the turn
of the century he was employed
by Tuskegee Institute in Ala-
bama. Here, associated closely
with Booker T. Washington, not
only was his aptitude for business management en-
couraged, but also his love and knowledge of
sports. He was in charge of the business depart-
ment of the Institute for years. For five of those
years he coached football and took a close _per—
sonal interest in recreation for the people of
Tuskegee. During the last twelve years he served
as a member of the faculty and of the executive
council of the governing body. °He was responsi-
ble for considerable extension work for the In-
stitute in cooperation with the Alabama State
Business League, of which organization he was
president for several years.

During World War I Mr. Attwell was pressed
into service as assistant to the food administrator
for the State of Alabama. His genius for organiza-
tion soon caught the attention of the Honorable
Herbert Hoover, who called him to WaShington
to work with the U.S. Food Administration on the
organization of nation—wide work among colored
people in the wartime conservation of food. By
this time, Mr. Attwell’s qualities of understanding
and statesmanship in the field of interracial well—

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

being had been noted by the National Recreation
Association, and at the urgent request of the Asso—
ciation he joined its national staff in March, 1919.

His early assignments included difficult recrea-
tion organization problems in behalf of colored
citizens in Philadelphia, Harrisburg, Montgomery,
Mobile, and. other cities of importance. In July
1920, he became Field Director of the Association’s

Bureau of Colored Work, a title he held for the

' rest of his life. When President Coolidge called his

.‘ famous National Conference on
Outdoor Recreation, Mr. Attwell
was invited as a delegate. From
the I 50 organizations repre-
‘sented, sixty delegates were se-
lected as the Executive Council
of the Conference. Mr. Attwell
was selected to serve on this
Council. Later, he also served
as a member of President Hoov-
er’s Conference on Child Health
and Protection. ‘

A list of the cities visited by
Mr. Attwell in capacity of Field
Director‘ would be reminiscent
of the Atlas itself, for he an-
swered many calls for help from
large and small communities in every part of the
country. He was called upon to make studies of
many kinds. Some had to ‘do with individual rec-
reation centers, some with a particular ward or

neighborhood of a community, others with the

° whole basic “problem of recreation in the com-

munity as a whole, in relation to the colored citi-
zens of that community. His advice and counsel
were eagerly sought by municipal officials and lay
civic leaders, both white and colored, struggling
with one or more facets of the complex problem
of recreation for the colored citizens—organization,
special legislation, finance campaigns, building
plans, training and personnel problems, public rela-
tions or the content of the recreation program.
The main objective of Mr. Attwell’s work has
been, with the help of the Association’s staff, to
make recreation opportunities, facilities and lead,
ership available to colored citizens, and to encour-
age greater participation on their part. His rare
gifts of diplomacy and tolerant understanding were
acknowledged and sought after by all who worked
with him. A statesman, and human to the core, he

307

.>v_ ~w._.=>m=._0._ .OU xnm—uahm d swim—=2

3.45 muUUDAm
u._.=>m50._

m>=n 30.? has! >lu>u :0

\ V 
Q

        

_ :oEEcgo a HE.

E: no". :00.—

RECREATION

308

loved people, and he was at home and at ease with
groups of people at any level, in social, business,
religious or governmental circles. Sometimes, with
controversial issues being discussed, a certain ten-
sion would deve10p. At such times the gentle and
altogether delightful humor of the man would be
called into play, resulting in hearty laughter around
the circle and the complete dissipation of the ten-
sion. '

Mr. Attwell’s voice has been a guiding and lead-
ing voice in the important task of interpreting, to
white and colored citizens everywhere, the need for
recreation opportunities for minority groups. In
Speaking of his work recently, he said, “In visiting
communities which have approached the recreation
frontier in tolerant and'considerate spirit, I find
not so much a difference in the technical direction
of wholesome recreation activities for colored peo-
ple, as a difference in the problems to be faced in
promoting available facilities and leadership. That
these problems have been recognized and in many
ways adjusted is indicated in the unusual growth
of the available centers and playgrounds for colored
groups in every section of the United States.”

Five years ago a number of recreation workers
who had received valuable help from Ernest Att-
well over a long period of years created the Att-
well Silver Anniversary Committee and, under its
auspices, arranged a dinner meeting in Columbus,
Ohio, to honor his completion of twenty-five years
of service in the public recreation movement.
Many appropriate and well-deserved tributes were
paid to “ET.” that evening. Acknowledging this
happy occasion, the late Howard Braucher, then
president of the National Recreation Association,
sent the following message to the Committee: “To-
day a great many cities throughout America have
more and better opportunities for the playlife of
children and for the recreation of youth and adults
because of Mr. Attwell’s devoted leadership and
personal work. There is much satisfaction for him
and for all of you who continue to work together
in increasing numbers to this end. The Associa-
tion is grateful that the recreation leaders in so
many communities have thus reaffirmed their de-
votion to him and to the national recreation move-
ment.”

The personal recreations and hobbies of Mr.
Attwell were simple in character but gave him
great satisfaction. Of his family, consisting of his
wife, a married daughter and-a son, he was tre—
mendously and rightfully proud. His home was
a haven of rest and contentment and here the latch-
string was always out for the many fine friends
who made occasional visits to New York and who

SEPTEMBER 1949

would seek out “E.T.” at his suburban home.

One hobby which always brought him much
pleasure, and pleased his friends as well, was in
the field of the culinary arts. From young man-
hood he had enjoyed cooking as a recreation. He
liked to tackle recipes that were not common-
place and he took great joy in producing some es-
pecially flavorful dish. There was only one stipu-
lation, which was understood from the start and
which helped to keep the hobby fresh and inter-
esting. This was that someone other than “E.T.”
would be responsible for washing up the inevi-
table pots and pans!

Few men ever enjoyed a colorful garden in
greater measure than Ernest Attwell. He was
proud of his well-kept lawn and of the gorgeous
annual diSplay of sturdy zinnias in the large cir-
cular, stone—bordered flower bed he had cultivated
for many years around the graceful birch tree in
his backyard. a

Part of the tribute given by the Reverend George
Plaskett at the simple and beautiful funeral service
follows:

“It is our privilege to pay tribute today to one
whose life of kindly gentleness and concern for
fellow human beings touched and influenced his
friends, his country, his age.

“The deep philosophy by which Mr. Attwell
lived and worked can best be expressed through
his own words:

‘The spirit of man maketh alive.

‘Mature minds have the hope that man will
again hearken and be guided by the eternal truth

that the blessing of each obtain when and where
Good Will prevails.

‘A great opportunity was lost by the Innkeeper
who pretended to have no room that night-before-
Christmas. Let us pray that we may all find room
for the needed moral and spiritual stamina Without
which continuing peace may pass our gates.’ ”

 

I

 

Community
Recreation

MEYER AND BRIGHTBILL

A guide and source book for every

professional recreation worker
'by ‘front-line’ author-experts

717 pages $5.00

D. C. HEATH AND COMPANY
285 Columbus Ave., Boston 16., Massachusetts

309

Observe the 5'4}? Cubical Construction

 

     

 

QQ 00 
u ‘. - 5
E I ' lu '  <
/ esgssilaidip
. Reg. u. 5. Pat. on. 3 DB I
I ' - n; h-  .tv ""4 .
Climbing structure ‘l‘Pi'eEIB-Q-sB‘al
allege/.5955! e
' f  1|“. Ls!-’|i:s p ‘
SAFE . . . because made up of    
cellular compartments: SAFE. . . . ' y i "‘ . " ‘5‘ " ‘
because a secure handheld  i  >
is always within easy reach! -    _
0 There are many imitators of JUNGLEGYM   ' V 
—but no imitation has the safe cubical conStruc- ' I r 7 "
tion that has set JUNGLEGYM apart from '
all Other climbing strucrures since its introduction .
nearly a third of a century ago. More than one hun-

dred million child-play-hours have been dev0ted

to JUNGLEGYM without a single serious accident. No
wonder thousands of JUNGLEGYMS are in daily use from
coast to coat! Why not give the children of your play-

ground the advantages ofJUNGLEGYIlI . . . now? , Wk fOR

illustrated bulletin
on Porter’s 1949
J streamlined line

 
 
  

THE" .l. E. CORPORATION
' 7., OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWWMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* glLT’Bc'TNUiE

Reg. U. 5. Pat. OE.

 

SEC RECREATION

Appeal to the Volunteer

Madeline Dane Ross

'1‘ THE National Conference of Social Work
Ain Cleveland this June, meetings for volun-
teers ran the gamut of welfare, health, recreation,
and social action, and were under the chairman-
ship of both professionals and volunteers—accord—
ing to a report in a current issue of; The Survey.
(Survey Associates). A few titles of papers pre—
sented indicate the range of subjects covered: Par—
ticipation of Lay Groups in Maternity Homes Pro-
grams, Lay Board Participation in a Social Serv-
ice Department (hospitals), Accountability of
Boards of Social Agencies, Citizenship Participa-
tion in Child Welfare, The Philosophy of Volun—
tarism.

The impression from these meetings was unmis—
takable: that the professional social worker needed
and wanted the lay citizen forrvolunteering and
using his thought as well as effort for human
progress; the old attitude of “You don’t know
enough for this, let a professional handle it,”
seemed to have vanished. There\ was no service
apparent where the volunteer was not welcome,
and much was said to make him feel that he must
assume an active rather than a passive or apa—
thetic role.

It was also apparent that the volunteer has come
into his own, as far as recognition is concerned.
He has earned the respect of the professional and
is learning to appraise and respect himself real-
istically. He wants training, he wants to know.
Although volunteering as an avocation really was
established some time ago, a more general and
positive feeling has pervaded since the war about
the volunteer’s intelligence, dedication, and the
worth of his work. In their need for each other,
volunteers and professionals have achieved a mu—
tual regard from working together. There is in-
creasing'understanding of the role of each. Mrs.
Sumner Spalding, a volunteer from Los Angeles,
said, “When the methods for the attainment of a
goal in a large community make for controversy,
the professional staff should step in and use its
skill for enlightenment and cooperation.”

There were immediate indications of professional
and citizen collaboration—of the citizen seeing the
importance of his part and reexamining himself
and his assets for volunteer service. Eduard C.
Lindeman of the New York School of Social
Work reported at a large and stimulating meeting

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

 

'DIAMOND

OFFICIAL
HORSESHOE
'PITCHNG
C O U R TS

Very strongly constructed of heavy planks.

Cast iron stake holder in center with proper
pitch to the stake; cannot work loose. Painted
with rust and rot preventative. Shipped ready
to assemble. Rules for playing, court regula-
tions and pad of score sheets included.

Write for information on Complete
Line of Pitching Shoes and Accessories

DIAMOND CALK

C O M P A N Y
DULUTH, MINNESOTA

H O R S E S H O E
4614 GRAND AVENUE

  
 
   
  

for

 First Choice

 

fuery Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

I'll! FINIST IN“ r”: I'lle .’

MANUFACIUIING COMPANY 0 SI’. IOUIS 3, MO.

  

311

l

'3 rubber miracles".

 

K1100 —The Kicking Tee that

turned a defensive obligation

 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

into a powerful offensive

weapon. Choose your "kick"
— the KTlOO can deliver!

XF9 — Plays dry in rain, sunshine or

snow. Handles, passes and kicks bet-

 

ter than any other football ever built!

LMZ—Voit All-Rubber safety
line Markers. Imagine all
these features—

 

'I Special all-rubber construction — firm
enough to withstand abuse—soft enough
to prevent iniuries.

2 Super-visible, brilliant white fabric letters
molded into rubber plates.

 

3 Require no maintenance.
4 Store flat.

5 Although basic unit is two numbered sides
—- patented construction permits 3 or 4
side assemblies as shown.

NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, LOS KN
%6-?a'w}’ (371375;! W/g/ér (if;

__-__ * 1 "L —_—_m
-_. “-—_—'— -v—‘v

 
     

' Reg. 11.5. m. on.

 

 

312 RECREATION

the results of a survey of motivations of volunteers.
This was a study begun'initially at the 1948 Vas—
sar Summer Institute and reported by Clarice
Pennock and Marion Robinson in the September,
1948, Survey Mid-monthly. Since then it has
grown to include volunteers from fifteen scattered
cities. Although the study was, of necessity, lim—
ited to a segment of volunteer types, it shows
clearly that volunteers are seriously appraising
their motives and the worth of their work.

Dr. Lindeman described volunteering as an
American phenomenon of working without pay
for the health, education, recreation, and welfare
services of our country. He estimated that. if. we
included all lay members of local school and agency
boards as well as those who came in through their
churches, we could count about 30,000,000 volun—
teers. “If volunteering is so important,” he said,
“we should do it better. Professionals seem to go
to professional meetings, but volunteers don’t'seem
to go to their community meetings.” Although the
motivations’ study merely scratches the surface of
an enormous group and potentiality, it is a sound
and serious beginning for understanding the volun—
teer—~helping him to understand himself, his com-

position and aims.

The volunteer social worker at the Conference
was confronted repeatedly by such challenges as
the urgency of the times, the obligation to partici—
pate, the obligation to train for volunteering, the
knowledge that he belongs and is wanted, and the
realization that he has to know what he is doing.

At one meeting a lay member said that when
she decided to volunteer, she did not know where
to go. In ensuing discussions of where and how,
mention was made of over seventy Volunteer Bu-
reaus functioning throughout the country as part
of the over—all planning for social welfare. I These
bureaus find out what volunteer services are needed
in the community, recruit and train volunteers, and
cooperate with other agencies. The potential vol-
unteer also can get in touch with his community
council or council of social agencies, or write to
national agencies, national church groups, individ—
ual national health and welfare agencies, and so on.

The emphasis of this report was 011 the volun—
teer and what he gained directly from the Con-
ference. There were many meetings for profes—
sionals at which the subject of volunteers and their
place in the human welfare program was discussed.

Successful execution of plays, even by experts, depends largely upon balance—or the even
distribution of weight of a ball.

Balance, resulting from scientific research and skillful moulding,.is another "Best by
Test” reason for specifying Wintark. Ochial in weight, shape and size—you’ll find them
beautiful, well balanced and TOP PERFORMERS in play and in economy. 

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOURFMONEY

WEAVER WINTARK SALES (0

SEPTEMBER 1949

-{‘

AMERICA'S FOREMOST ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
0 P. 0. BOX 71-SOU'IH FIFTH STREET-SHAMOKIN, PA.

 

313

, College Association Formed

Garrett G. Eppley

RGANIZATION OF THE College Recreation As-
O sociation was recently completed, following
action taken during the National Recreation Con-
gress in Omaha, Nebraska, last fall. The college
association is planned to include all recreation per-
sonnel afiiliated with colleges and universities in
the United States and Canada.

Annual meetings of the association will be held
in conjunction with the National Recreation Con-
gress, the next being scheduled for September II,
in New Orleans. Ofiicers and committee chair-
men will serve until the annual meeting in 1950.

Ofiicers are :. President, Garrett G. Eppley,
Chairman, Department of Recreation, Indiana Uni-
versity; vice-president, Fred M. Coombs, in charge
of recreation curriculum, Pennsylvania State Col-
lege ; secretary-treasurer, Miss Priscilla Rabethge,
Recreation Specialist, University of New Hamp-
shire.

Committee chairmen and co-chairmen include:
Constitution—chairman, Jackson Anderson, Pur-
due University, co-chairman, Miss Helen G. Smith,
\Vashington State College; Afiiliations—chairman,
Henry O. Dresser, Louisiana State University,
co-chairman, Israel C. Heaton, Utah State Agri-
cultural College; Research—chairman, Milton
A. Gabrielsen, New York University, co-chairman,
Harry D. Edgren, George Williams College;
Graduate Curriculum—chairman, G. B. Fitzgerald,
University of Minnesota, co-chairman, John Hutch-
inson, Teachers College, Columbia University;
Undergraduate Curriculum—chairman, Charles
\Veckwerth, Springfield College, co-chairman,
Marvin Rife, University ,of \Visconsin; Field
Service—chairman, Harold D. Meyer, North Car-
olina University, co-chairmdn, E. H. Regnier,
University of Illinois; Campus Recreation—chair-
man, Miss June Breck, University of California,
Los Angeles, co-chairman, Miss June Brasted,
Mills College; Camping—chairman, Richard E.
Stultz, Syracuse University, co—chairman, Charles
B. Cranford, San Francisco State College; Student
Associations—chairman, John Scherlacher, \Vest
Virginia, co-chairman, James H. Boswell, Univer-
sity of Florida.

The College Recreation Association is aHiliated
with the American Recreation Society. Its main
function will be to improve the work of all persons
employed by colleges and universities to perform
a recreation function.

314

    
     

 
   
     
         
 
   
     
 
         
   
       
         
 

Just What You Need for Your
Recreational and Educational
Programs . . .

Carefully Selected
FEATURES 0 CARTOONS o COMEDIES

Only the Best in
SPORTS o CAMPING o NATURE STUDY

ARTS and CRAFTS

Widest Selection of FREE FILMS
TRAVEL 0 SCIENCE o VOCATIONS
Many in Color

Write today for the new 1949-1950 Catalog of
SELECTED MOTION PICTURES

ASSOCIATION FILMS, Inc.

NEW YORK l9 SAN FRANCISCO 2
35 West 45th Street 35I Turlt Street

CHICAGO 3 DALLAS 4
206 50. Michigan Avenue 30I2 Maple Avenue

  

THE NATIONAL SECTION
OF WOMEN’S ATHLETICS

of the

American Association for Health,
Physical Education,and Recreation

_/4nnounced f/zcif '

Beginning August 1, 1949 the ofIicial
publisher for all the publications and

Official Sport Guides of the National
Section on Women’s Athletics will be the
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION
of the NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIA-
TION instead of A. S. Barnes 3: Co.

All orders should be addressed to:

National Section on Women’s Athletics

I201 Sixteenth Street, Northwest
Washington 6, D. C.

 

RECREATION

Recognized by lead-
ing Sport and Recre-
ational Directors over
the cOuntry as a
completely new lnna-
votion for individual
awards — from $1.25
to $12.50. Priced low
enough to fit every
budget. The person-
olixed gold inscribed
nomeplotes' are a con-
siderable saving over
the conventional
method of engraving.

Orders shipped in 5
days with inscribed
plates. Send for
catalog.

Samples gladly sent
for inspection.

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   

W
and
39mm

Come Over to My House, prepared by Emily P. Wil-

son; Stepping Out, prepared by Martha H. Clarke.

Girls' Friendly Society, 386 Fourth Avenue, New
York. Former, $.35; latter, $.30.

A Pennsylvania Recreation Manual, 1949. State Plan-
ning Board, Department of Commerce, Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania.

Park Maintenance, July 1949
Try a Festival, Collis L. Jordan.
Crabgrass, Its Chemical Control in Turf, J. A.

DeFrance. . _
Pointers for Efficient Spray Painting, Frank V.

Faulhaber. -

Highroad, August 1949
Fun and Fellowship from Many Lands, Rose

Wright.

Parks and Recreation, July 1949

South .Florida Goes South Pacific, Collis L.
Jordan.

Park and Recreation Week Activity—A Resume,
Fred G. Heuchling.

The Interpretation of Nature, D. Robert Hakala.

Detroit’s Recreation Program, J. J. Considine.

Designs for Public Playground Clubhouse Build—
ings, William Frederickson, Jr.

Maintenance Mart.

The Survey, July 1949
Baltimore Cleans Its Slums, Karl Detzer.
National Conference of Social Work.‘

Architectural Record, July 1949
Building Types Study Number 151—Bui1ding for
Athletics and Recreation.
Editorial Direction of Frank G. Lopez.

Nation’s Schools, August 1949
Community Centers in Atlanta, Roy W. Davis.

Beach and Pool, July 1949
Why Learn How to Swim? Carroll L. Bryant.
Basic Principles of Design, Construction, Main-
gtnance of the YMCA Pool, Part III, John W.
33- -
Pool Design, Construction, Operation.
Practical Pointers in Swimming Pool Filtration,
Chauncey A. Hyatt.

Playtown, U.S.A. The Atlantic Institute, 209 South
State Street, Chicago 4, Illinois.

SEE YOU AT
THE NATIONAL
RECREATION
CONGRESS

  

Paigsz and Recreation in Canada, Convention Issue,
Professional Leadership Training in Canada for

In every Iieid of sport in Profes-

Reereational Directors, Charles A. Barbour. sionoI.Sem7.Proond Ameiem Bese~
Parks Maintenance Equipment, H. A. Dorrance. be" and Softball. In Universities.
Economy in Park Maintenance, Edward I. Wood. C°“"-9'”"d H‘s“ 5‘“°°""" M“'

nicipoi and Industrial Recreation.

American Youth Hostels Handbook, 1949. American 2‘

Youth Hostels, Incorporated, 6 East 39 Street, New "for: or quality 9...: unveryin;
York   performance.

Architectural Record, August 1949

Reinforced Concrete Stadium, First Unit of Rio’s
New Sports Center.

 

SEPTEMBER 1949

 

Living Through the Older Years

Edited by Clark Tibbitts. University of Michigan
Press, Ann Arbor. $2.00.

HIS IS A collection of addresses given at one

of the first comprehensive conferences on the
problems and adjustments of later maturity and
old age——-the Charles A. Fisher Memorial Insti-
tute. The Conference was addressed to two groups
of people:  1) professional workers, such as adult
education leaders, welfare workers, ministers, rec-
reation workers, counselors, and public health
nurses; and (2) middle—aged and older people
alert enough to know that they can enjoy the later
years if they understand themselves and the aging
process and make suitable preparation.

The book should be valuable not only to leaders,
therefore, but to those in vigorous middle years
who want to look ahead, or to older persons who
need help in understanding and solving their own
personal problems.

Handbook of
Y.M.C.A. Camp Administration

Edited by John A. Ledlie and Ralph D. Roehm.
Association Press, New York. $4.50.

THIS, THE ofiirial handbook of the Y ..\I.C.A., as
a practical manual for camp directors and
supervisors, presents the best that has been learned
about administration in Y..\I.C.A. camps. Its prep—
aration was authorized in 1947 (by the seventh
North American Assembly of Y..\I.C.A. “'orkers
with Boys), and the Camping Commission of the
Association of Boys’ \Vork Secretaries proceeded
with the task. Its pages put the experience of
hundreds of camp directors at the disposal of ad-
ministrators and other camp leaders.

316

. New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

Film Booklets

Film Council of America, 6 \Vest Ontario Street,
Chicago 10, Illinois.

RELEASE or THE final four “how-to-do-it” book—

lets by the Film Council of America completes
a plan promoting the more effective use of films by
community groups. Each of the eight booklets in
the series answers questions most frequently asked
by local film councils.

\Vritten by authorities in ,the film field, the new
booklets providing practical advice are: “How to
Organize and Conduct Community Film \Vork—
shops,” “How to Conduct a Survey of Film Needs
and Resources,” “How to Evaluate Films for

Community Use,” “How to Organize a Film Fes-
tival.”

Ofiicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Roam-r GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

REV. PAUL Moon-z, JIL, First Vice-President

M35. 0602:: L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAK M. LIAssn-z, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG Buns, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. Bzxcn, Englewood, N: J.
Mas. Roman-r \Voons Buss, W'ashmg-ton, D. C.
Mas. Ari-nun G. Count-:1, Jacksgnvtlle, Fla.
\VILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York,  Y.
HARRY P. DAvrsox, New York. L. Y.
Ronn'r Gnur'r, Baltimore, Md.
Roan-r GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. L, N. Y.
Ausnx E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, ‘Wash.
Mas. Notiqu HAmzowzn, Fitchburg, Mass.
Mas. CHARLES V. chxox, Michigan Cit ‘,_Ind.
Mas. 10313 D. JAuEsox, Bellport, L. 1., - . X.
Susan: M. LEE, New York, N._Y.
Orro T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Au sta, Me.
Mas. Osman L. MILLS, Voodbury, NEY.
REV. PAUL Moon-2, 12., Jersey C1t_y, '3. J. _
Mas. Slcuuxn STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
Gum-r Tlrswon'rn, Noroton, Conn.

. C. \VALSH, New York,  Y.

REDERICK M. ‘WAncno, New York, N. Y. '

RECREATION

 

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERs
Social Recreation

. September and October, 1949

Bastrop, Louisiana
September 26—30

Lake Charles, Louisiana
October 3-7

Baton Rouge, Louisiana
October 10-14

Evansville, Indiana
October 24-28

Montpelier, Vermont
October 31-November 11

Cliamberslmrg, Pennsylvania

September 19-21

MARY BREEN LAWSON Kingston, New York

Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

September 26-28

Griflin, Georgia
September 5-9

Clovis, New Mexico
September 26—30

Dallas, Texas
October 3—7

Austin, Texas
October 10-14

Houston, Texas
October 17-31

Morgan City, Louisiana
October 24-28

Texarkana, U.S.A.
October 31-November 4

Arlington, Virginia
October 10-21

Kansas City- Missouri
October 24-November 4

\Vinston-Salem, North

Carolina
0 ctob er 17-28

W. C. Hohmann, Secretary and Treasurer, Bast-
rop Recreation Committee, Bastrop High School.

O. D. Johnson, Superintendent of Recreation,
City  a

r‘

R. M. Hileman, Superintendent, Recreation and
Park Commission, 115 St. Louis Street.

S. J. Medlicott, General Secretary, Y.M.C.A..
Fifth and Vine Streets.

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Rec-
reation, State House.

Howard F. James, Recreation Director, 100 South
Second Street.

Mrs. Mortimer B. Downer, Junior League of
Kingston, Incorporated, 55 Fair Street.

Senator Albert G. Swint, Orchard Hill, Georgia.

Miss Martha S. Smith, Housing Authority of the
City of Clovis.

W. H. Keeling, Superintendent of Recreation,
Dallas, Texas.

Beverly S. Sheffield, Director, Austin Recreation
Department.

Arnold R. Moser, Superintendent of Recreation.
501 City Hall.

George Buckley, Superintendent of Recreation,
City Hall.

Alba J. Etie, Jr., Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation, Municipal Building.

Mrs. Ruth V. Phillips, Department of Recreation,
Arlington County, 3700 Lee Highway.

Mrs. Verna Rensvold, Superintendent of Public
Recreation, City Hall.

Loyd B. Hathaway, Superintendent of Recreation.

 

W 1TH the stars of sports, modern features of conStruction in the equipment
they use are of the utmost importance. That’s why so many of them use and
recommend Wilson.

The famous Wilson Advisory Staff, whose members help design, test and
play \Y’ilson equipment, is another reason why star players prefer \Vilson.
Golf champions Sam Snead, Lloyd Mangrum, Gene Sarazen, Patty Berg and
Babe Didrikson—tennis greats jack Kramer, Don Budge, Bobby Riggs and
Alice Marble—diamond stars Ted \Y'illiams and Bob Feller—gridiro‘n head-
liners Johnny Lujack, Charley Trippi and Paul Christman are only a few of
this great staff of experts. Follow these stars—play Wilson—know you’re play-
ing the best.

WILSON SPOR'IING GOODS CO" CHICAGO
[A Subsidiary of Wilson & Co., Inc.)
Branch offices in New York, San Francisco and other principal cilies

 

