new.) I." 'u - CNN"
bfnrcMnnv-g ’ "WUOJQ-o
J acuou will 3. Lu 1‘: will

ALIS 16 1949

 

 

Contents

 

August 1949

“I Go to the Playground Just to Have
Fun” (editorial), by Howard Braucher 221

The Land of Lafitte the Pirate . . . . . . . . . 222
New Orleans Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
Leaf from a Statistician’s Notebook. . . . 226
A Few Things to See in New Orleans . . . . . 227
Further Congress Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 228
Evening Speakers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 229
“Everybody Active”—Mormon Recrea-

tion Plan, by Ellis S. McAllister . . . . . . 230
Roslyn’s Rough Riders,

by Adeline Bullock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233

Camping on the Campus, by Maud Seif . . 236

Television and Community Center Pro-
grams, by Monte ilIelamed . . . . . . . . . . 237

The Comics as “Whipping Boy” . . . . . . . 239
Tracking Games, by Ellsworth Jaeger . . . 240

An Observance of Parks and Recreation

Week . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 243

Arts and Crafts Projects Can Grow into

Personal Hobbies—
Chalk on Wet Paper,

by Sigrid Rasmussen . . . . . . . . . . 244
Newsprint in Action,
by Ruth Hopkins . . . . . . . . . . . . 245

“Dear Sir:”—-—-—Tennessee Answers Ques- "
tions on Community Recreation,

by B. R. Allison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Poor Man’s Country Club,

by Richard F. Williamson . . . . . . . . . . 249
Michigan Lighted Field Survey-“1948,

by Bernard Ballantine . . . . . . . . . . . . 251

The School-HA Center of Community
Living, by Walter D. Cocking . . . . . . . 253

America’s Oberammergau,

by Dr. Philip L. Seman . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Psychology in Teaching "Swimming,

by B. Robert Berg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
Y.M.C.A. Aquatic Conference,

by Harold T. Friermood . . . . . . . . . . . 259
Golf Goes Industrial, by John Budd. . . . 260
Willard Leroy Hayes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

Five Polio Precautions Listed for Parents 264

Emergency Radio Program,

by Louis T. Marsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Recreation Training
Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . . Inside Back Cover

 

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted for illustrations to:
Eugene Deleroix, Tilden Landry and Jefferson Parish Yearly Re-
\iew, Louisiana, pages 222, 223; Leon Trice Picture Service,
New Orleans, page 224; Arthur W. Tong, page 225; Patterson
Studios, New Orleans, for that of Mayor Morrison, page 229;
The .Uilu‘aukee Sentinel, for that of )liss Enderis, page 229;
Junis and Pearson, Hemet, California, pages 254, 255. The car-
toon, page 242, is reprinted by special permission of the Saturday
Evening Post. Copyright 19 18 hy the Curtis Publishing Company.

In the words of Ellsworth Vines, former
world's top-ranked tennis star now concen-
trating his elorts on golf, “Golf always

defeats you. You can never master it. That
is why the game is so fascinating. It’s a
challenge to everyone who plays it.”

Photograph by Ewing Galloway, New
York City.

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Reader-1’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Post Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Secrion 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

COPJ‘rt'gbt 1949, by the National Recreation Auociazion, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-THREE, NUMBER FIVE PRICE 35 Cams

Recreation
AUGUST 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

 

{7 50 to 2116 Mag/grown! just to fiat/c 571m »  g 

A great natural resource is the capacity of men and women to .be happy, to find

life good.
It does not take much to help pe0ple to be happy.
It does not take much to make people thoroughly unhappy.
One sourpuss rightly placed can pollute the atmosphere for quite a long distance.

The difference between happiness and unhappiness for the group is very slight, a
touch-and-go pr0position—a very slight leadership can make all the difference.

Of course, happiness is a by-product—not something to be sought after for its own
sake.

However, being unhappy just crosses so many hours, so many days off as zero, as
time that does not count.

You travel farther, you travel higher and deeper and you make an altogether better
picture when you are happy. '

Happiness does not depend on owning much. Owning much is sometimes, after a
certain point, just so much more to carry.

Happiness is an inner attitude.

The playground and recreation center are good places for developing the habit of
happiness, the inner attitude of happiness.

Happiness does not mean Pollyanna stuff; it does not mean closing one’s eyes or
going through life blindfolded so as not to see evil or what needs to be changed.

Happiness does not mean laughing all the time or being silly. People who laugh
constantly may be very unhappy.

Happiness does 'involve an inner peace, an inner power, a willingness to enjoy little
things, to smile kindly at one’s self and one’s own peculiar ways, to smile kindly at

what is going on about one. It does involve being a good companion to one’s self and
to others.

A great contribution of the playground is to help children early to learn to do what
they want to do happily with others.

A great contribution of the recreation center to people throughout life is to give
pe0ple an opportunity to adjust happily to each other in sharing music, drama, sport,
beauty, and all else worth sharing.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Written for RECREATION in December, 1941.

221

 

Scene of the 1949 National Recre-

ation Congress, September 12-16

FEW AMERICANS realize, until they actually visit Louisiana, that between New Orleans
and the Gulf of Mexico lies a great semi-liquid wilderness through which the Missis-
sippi twists and turns for over a hundred miles.

It is a maze of streams and swamps generously strewn with oak-topped mounds or
chenieres, ideal for either habitation or hiding—a confusion of lakes and bayous so
interwoven that, back in the days of Lafitte, an experienced boatman could make a hun-
dred round trips to New Orleans and never exactly follow the same route twice.

Here is a land over which nature has scattered beauty in reckless abandon; sand and
sea . . . sunsets and soft woodland shadows . . . brilliant bloom and sombre Spanish moss.

Straight down from New Orleans, through that interminable tangle of marshes,
bayous, lakes and bays, you will spot two islands guarding the gateway to the Gulf—
Crand Isle and Grand Terre. Here lived the Baratarians, ostensibly fishermen; but
fishing was only a blind. Their real business was the distribution of contraband at
popular prices.

Between 1806 and 1808, New Orleans gradually became aware . . . that a certain
blacksmith shop on Bourbon Street was other than a law-abiding forge. Hot metal
hissed on the forge all day long in a perfectly normal manner; but it was first whispered,
and finally openly discussed, that horses of a different color were being shod there.

RECREATION

The owners were those Lafitte brothers who had sailed in so quietly several years ago, and had ust as quietly
acquired a business—or, a front, as we’d call it nowadays. .

Jean had persuaded Pierre that they needed a retail outlet—a shop where the jewels, rich fabrics and other
loot, iilched from the necks and persons of people caught on the high seas, might be displayed to local custom-
ers. So the shop was opened.

New Orleans at that time was different from any other American city. It was a walled town, built on the bend
of the river. Ramparts of logs enclosed it on the land sides beyond which was a moat forty feet wide and seven
feet deep. Through four gates of the city, closed at night, passed all trafhc. In the middle of the town were the
Cabildo, the Place d’Armes (now called Jackson Square) and the St. Louis Cathedral. Here the church and
government tried to guide the strange combination of Creoles and Americans that made up the population.

The Creoles, you know, were the descendents of the old Spanish and French families—the bluebloods of
New Orleans. They predominated the population; and while the new Americans were slowly gaining a foot-
hold, the city was French controlled.

It was during this period of confusion, when French culture and American rough and ready indepen-
dence were struggling to find a common ground, that smuggling flourished and the Lafittes fared well. Since
they were French and Governor Claiborne an American, and Jean was a popular citizen, it was not strange
that the people inclined to ignore the upstart authority of their new governor.

His chief difliculty was that he, an American, had come to
head a city that even as late as 1810, six years later, could
still muster only 3,000 Americans of a population of 25,000
people predominantly French. For ten years he had a tough
struggle and the Lafittes had a field day.

In the interest of law and order, and less than four
months after taking office, the young governor issued a
proclamation, complying with an Act of Congress, mak-
ing it illegal in Louisiana to import slaves into the United

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

States from other countries.

This hit hard. The plantation owners had just en-
tered an era of expanding prosperity that depended
on slave labor. Thoroughly resentful of the law, there-
fore, they turned to the Lafittes and the smugglers
to get them slaves somewhere, somehow.

The story of the building of that outlaw organiza-
tion is actually the story of Jean Lafitte. In 1810 he
became the acknowledged leader of the Baratarians.

(Later, at General J ackson’s request, Jean Lafitte
and his pirate crew fought for
the city with such success that
they received official pardon

from the United States govern-
ment.———Ed.)

To bring their contraband from
Grand Terre to New Orleans,
the smugglers used winding paths
concealed by oaks and cypress
and a labyrinth of misty bayous.

Excerpted from "The Land of Lafitte the
Pirate," by Ray M. Thompson. Copyright
1943 by the Jefferson Parish Yearly Review,

New Orleans. Available in New Orleans
book shops.

AUGUST 1949 . 223

New (Means Recreation

In two years’ time, advances have been phenomenal.

REAT STRIDES have been made

by ‘the recreation department

in the City of New Orleans in the

last two years, and it rapidly is be—

coming one of the outstanding de-
partments in the country.

It was during the war, as” Uncle
Sam’s military leaders were stress-
ing the great need for men of physi-
cal fitness, that a group of civic-
minded New Orleans men banded
together to expand the city’s recre-
ation program. Guided ‘by Lester
J. Lautenschlaeger as volunteer di-
rector, and John P. Brechtel as ex-
ecutive assistant director, the program gathered
momentum. Robert S. Maestri, former mayor,
endorsed the movement with an appropriation of
$30,000; school grounds that were formerly closed
for the vacation period were opened as “temporary”
playgrounds; in several sections of the city, vacant
properties were converted into play spots; and
money furnished by various civic groups provided
the means for purchasing recreation equipment.

By this time, \Vorld \Var II had ended and was
being written into the history books. And in New
Orleans young veterans of the conflict were return-
ing to civilian life, one of them to be elected mayor
of the famous Mardi Gras city . Most of these men
had been through the “paces” of war and wanted
to forget and relax. A well-rounded recreation pro-
gram was ust what was needed.

In January of 1946, deLesseps Story Morrison,
a highly decorated veteran of the European Theatre
was electedmayor. He knew of the many advan-
tages of recreation and, in his early days in ofiice,
planned a well-rounded and composite play pro—
gram. In September of that year, he proposed to
the Commission Council that a New Orleans Rec-
reation Department be organized. The ordinance,
No. 16630, was passed, and on’ January I, 1947,
NORD became a reality.

224

  

A

Lester J. Lautenschlaeger, a
volunteer, director of New Or-
leans Recreation Department.

Lester J. Lautenschlaeger, who
had been a former Tulane Univer-
sity grid star, was chosen to head
the new department and, as his
executive assistant, he retained
Johnny Brechtel who also had made
a name for himself in southern prep
football circles. Immediately, a
stat? of trained recreation supervi- '
sors was built up; a construction
and maintenance crew organized;
and, in two years’ time, the thirty-
three playgrounds which were serv-
ing as recreation facilities for a city
of over a half-million population
were increased in number to approximately ninety-
one. Among these, twenty playgrounds now are
being Hoodlighted for night operation.

The first neighborhood youth centers were placed
in operation by the remodeling of two abandoned
jails, a fire station and two public meat markets. All
told, fifty-eight new play centers opened in twelve
months.

Séven new swimming pools are being completed
this summer, equalling the local record of twenty-
seven preceding years within a period of six months.
A youth center, occupying a whole city block, is
being constructed, and another youth center will
rise around the abandoned steel framework of a
former carbarn. A complete recreation stadium and
fioodlighted parks for Negroes are going up in a
formerly dark and tree-filled square that, until
now, has been one of the city’s worst crime spots.
The former Lagarde Hospital recreation plant also
has been taken over—including a swimming pool,
gymnasium, theatre and hot house for nature study
classes. A country club for youngsters is being con-
structed in a former defense plant warehouse at the
Delgado Trades School.

All city playgrounds have been equipped with
steel link fencing and the latest durable playground
equipment. At the summer peak, in 1948, the de-

RECREATION

Transformation

 

From a jail house—

 

To a community center

From a vacant lawn-—

 

To a lighted playground
AUGUST 1949 , 225 _

partment had over 3 5o trained supervisors on the
job. Thirty school playgrounds, once idle after
three-thirty p.m., were staffed by the department
for full-time operation during the summer.

As can be seen from the foregoing, a great deal of .

ingenuity and careful thought have gone into this
building up of recreation facilities and program in
the shortest possible time. Department workmen,
for instance, took an old garbage truck and con-
verted it into a traveling theatre, complete with
stage and loudspeaker system. As early as 1947,
this theatre, using child performers, played to

35,000 spectators, covering every neighborhood -

playground. N ow the department has an all—round
dramatic and music program, administering the
Children’s Theatre in cooperation with the Junior
League, operating its own Summer Theatre on the
lakefront. Last fall it presented the Gershwin mu-
sical “Of Thee I Sing” to capacity audiences in the
Municipal Auditorium.

Another cultural activity, outstanding of its type,
which early was introduced, is a series of youth
concerts sponsored by the city.in cooperation with
the New Orleans Symphony and the public and
parochial schools. Since the inauguration of this
program, there has been a twenty-four per cent drop
in the number of children involved in juvenile
crimes.

Recently dedicated was the Perry D. Roehm
Baseball Stadium, a magnificent baseball plant
which seats 2,500 spectators, and is in constant use
by the NORD summer baseball teams, of which
there are over two hundred. However, being
blessed with a tropical climate, the city program
moves on the year round with no curtailment of
activities either in the centers or out-of-doors.

The recreation department is now divided into
three groups: athletic, cultural and maintenance.
The athletic department, employing a staff of 125,
conducts activities on the various grounds. In 1947
NORD organized 445 basketball teams and 120
baseball teams. Ten thousand children participated
in track meets, 16,000 in arts and crafts, 15,000 in
dramatics and 8,000 took swimming instruction;
3,000 took part in the “Every Child a Swimmer”
program.

The first city-financed summer camp for phy-
ground children was opened in'June 1948, and took
care of from 800 to 1,000 children between the ages
of nine and sixteen that first year. It was required
that each child attending have parental permission.

Even the older folks are not forgotten, and the
department is proud of the program offered to citi-
zens who have passed the half-century mark. Gold-
en Age Clubs meet for weekly frolics, and the inter-

226

est shown by the Golden Agers seriously rivals that
of the teen-age athletes.

\Vhile the city’s recreation facilities were tripled
within a year, and attendance jumped more than
ten times—passing the 2,000,000 mark—the recre-
ation department realizes that its task is just begun,
and that there is no magic formula for the conduct-
ing of programs. It is now sponsoring on-the-job
training for its capable staff of workers and super-
visors, calling upon representatives of the National
Recreation Association, Loyola and Tulane Univer-
sities and other cultural arid athletic groups to con-
duct conferences on certain phases of recreation.
During the past school year, a group of supervisors
completed an extension course offered by Louisiana
State University. Says Director Lautenschlaeger:
“A good community-wide recreation program de-
pends upon common sense, honest efforts and faith
in the future of our community and of our nation.”

The New Orleans Recreation Department joins
Mayor deLesseps Morrison in extending to recrea-
tion workers throughout the nation, and to the 315t
National Recreation Congress, a cordial welcome to

New Orleans.

Lan from a Statistician’s Notebook

Sand-lot Ball Game

Age of players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-12
Number of players on each team . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Total number of pitchers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Total number of threats to pitcher to

“put it over” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
Total number of efforts made to “put it over” . 339
Total number “put over” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0
Total number of balls hit by batters

on first bounce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Total number of hits fielded . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0

Total number of disputes over batting order. . 503

Number of times duress employed by owner

of ball to influence batting order . . . . . . . . . . 8
Number of third strikes misclassified

by batter as “foul tips” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Number of men on winning team at end

of game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
N pmber of men on losing team . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

 

ichrinted from "P05: Scripts," with special permission of The
Saturday Evening Port. Copyright 1949, Curtis Publishing Co.

RECREATION

A Few Things To’See

 

——I n New Orleans

Saint Louis Cathedral

C.

00L PATIOS and courtyards still abound. With quaint architecture, spiral staircases, overhanging bal-
C conies and flower displays, they are among the unique and most interesting sights of the city. There
are many other interesting spots which you will want to see if time permits—among them, Congo Square,
(now Beauregard Square), former slave market where Voodoo reveled and enchantment took place; the old
U. S. Mint, now a Federal prison; the very old Ursuline Convent, erected over two hundred years ago
(America’s first girls’ college) ; the Colonial house known as “Madam John’s Legacy”; the civil courthouse

with its large group of historical portraits, and—

THE OLD FRENCH MARKET—established a couple
of hundred years ago, colorful, and very clean.
(New Orleans is the “cookingest” city in America.)
Here, early on a Sunday morning, may be heard
the chatter of tongues of the Western Hemisphere.

THE CABILDO—erected in 179 5, once the seat of
Spanish government, has played an important part
in Louisiana history and culture. It is now the state
museum, filled with relics of the past.

LAFITTE’S OLD BLACKSMITH SHOP—0n Bourbon
Street, once a “front” for the sale of pirate loot.
Nowadays it is possible to get refreshments there.

HUEY P. LONG BRIDGE—the famous bridge across
the Mississippi River, which was completed Decem-
ber 15, 1935, at a cost of $13,000,000.

OLD ABSINTHE HOUSE—at the corner of Bienville
and Bourbon, built in 1806, and for over 100 years
a rendezvous of bonvivants including Jean Lafitte,

the buccaneer hero who helped General Jackson
with the Battle of New Orleans.

THE CATHEDRAL OF OAKS—0n the old Versailles
Plantation, where Jackson’s men rested after battle.
This is said to be the world’s flnest grove of ancient,
moss—draped trees.

NAPOLEON HOUSE—built as a refuge for Napoleon
Bonaparte, who was to be stolen and brought there
from St. Helena. Déath defeated the plan.

MUNICIPAL PARKSZ—City park on the French side
of town and Audubon on the American. New Or-
leans is a veritable flower garden the year round.

RECREATION DEPARTMENT—activities and facilities.

Things to Order

“Creole cooks are heaven sent”

Shrimp at Arnaud’s

Oysters at the Louisiane
Trout Marguery at Galatoire’s
Baked Pompano at Antoine’s

 

AUGUST. 1949

227

Further Congress Plans

r I ‘HE RECREATION CONGRESS in New Orleanswill'

once again serve its historic mission of provid-
ing an opportunity for the exchange of information
and experience between leaders responsible for the
recreation services of the nation, and as a spring-
board for pushing forward the recreation move-
ment in the area of the country in which it is being
held. During the past few years, many new recrea-
tion programs have been established in the South,
and many other cities are considering the provision
of recreation.

Through the careful and thoughtful work of the
committees responsible, Congress plans have been
adapted to meet new needs and trends, and to serve
most efiiciently the various groups attending. A
number of features are being introduced this year:

Demonstration by the Golden Age Club, of recre-
ation for older people, will serve as a basis for the
discussion of recreation for this growing propor-
tion of the population.

Needs of the new younger servicemen, while on
leave in communities near training camps, once
again will be faced.

Several meetings will deal with the werk carried
on during the year by special committees appointed
by the National Recreation Association—among
these: Television, Sports and Athletics, Personnel
Standards, Public Relations and Polio. The rapid
and widespread deve10pment' of recreation on the
state level will be covered in two meetings on Rec-
reation in State Agencies. Another topic will take
the form of a debate on Providing Recreation for
Pre-School Children.

All day Monday, recreation and park executives
will discuss questions selected by a committee
headed by Floyd Rowe of Cleveland.

A special Hospital Recreation Committee, work-
ing in cooperation with the Hospital Committee of
the American Recreation Society, also is providing
an all-day meeting on Monday for those interested
in recreation in hospitals.

228

A Problem Clinic will be held, with a panel of
experts prepared to answer special problems.

Ample room in the Municipal Auditorium has
made possible a greatly expanded exhibit—educa-
tional and commercial.

Mayor Morrison of New Orleans reports a heavy
correspondence with mayors, city managers and
other community leaders throughout the South, in-
dicating that this section will be heavily repre-
sented, and auguring well for further development
of recreation in the South in the immediate years
ahead.

The great variety of meetings and special confer-
ences; the unusual program of demonstrations and
social events; the extensive exhibits—all in the pic-
turesque setting of old New Orleans—should make -
this Congress one of rich significance. '

 

Weather

New Orleans, in September, is likely to be warm.
It would be advisable for both men and women to
bring comfortable shoes and light clothing.

 

Special Notice

All Recreation Congress activities—meetings,
exhibits, services, demonstrations—will center at
the Municipal Auditorium, which will be the real
headquarters of the Congress. Delegates will be
located in a number of New Orleans hotels. There
will be no particular advantage, as far as the Con-
gress is concerned, in being located in any special
one of the oflicially designated Congress hotels. The
local committee is doing everything possible to pro-
vide comfortable rooming accommodations for all
the Congress delegates.

RECREATION

‘ Evening Speakers

   
   
   
     
   

At General Sessions

Recreation Congress

New Orleans

 

deLesseps S. Morrison Allen T. Burns

 

New Orleans is famous for beautiful oaks, hung
with tattered banners of Spanish moss. Under
these, Congress delegates will have breakfast.

AYOR DELESSEPS S. MORRISON is the dynamic recreation-minded chief
Mexecutive of New Orleans. Allen T. Burns, widely-known social,
civic and religious leader, is former Executive Director of the National
Information Bureau, and of Community Chests and Councils. Hugh
Comer, President and Treasurer of Avondale Mills, Sylacauga, Alabama,
is an active leader in church and youth agencies.~ Dorothy Enderis, Direc-

tor Emeritus, of the Department of Munici-
pal Recreation and Adult Education of s _
Milwaukee, is one of the most efli— J  ‘ ‘
cient and popular leaders of
the recreation profession.

Hugh Comer
Dorothy Enderis

 

AUGUST 1949 229

MORMON RECREATION PLAN

“Everybody

Active”

The story of a large-scale

church program which includes every-

one from youngsters-to old folks.

Ellis S. McAllister

ERTAINLY THE CHURCH, as a great social in-
C stitution in American life, has an opportunity,
as well as a responsibility, to join hands with schools
and municipalities in providing guidance for chil-
dren, youth, and adults who are the victims of the
tense nervous strains of a complex scientific civili-
zation. Recreation, to fill the growing hours of
leisure, can do much to cultivate and develop the
spiritual life of people and, in turn, better human
relations and an improved emotional culture.

The Mormon Church is still pioneering in the
field of church recreation. 3“The church needs rec-
reation and recreation needs the church” say Mor-
mon leaders, who feel that recreation can help the
church accomplish its objective of “more abundant
living” for all its members. Thus, the church can
give to recreation the spiritual ideals and stability
which are so necessary in our material world. To
be more specific, recreation in the church gives
church members an opportunity to participate in
activities which bring a reward of happiness.

Imagine, if you can, 154,000 young people all
gathered in different localities on specified nights
to promote one great recreation program—all of
them having the same ideals and aims. If you can
do that, you have a fairly accurate picture of the
activity program of the Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, which deals with young people from the
ages of twelve to twenty-five. If you have that
firmly fixed in mind, then turn your attention to
some I 52,547 children between the ages of four and
twelve, all gathered in their respective localities and
working on a spiritual and fun program. This fig-
ure represents the enrollment in the Primary Asso-
ciation, which conducts a wide, year-round program
of recreation for the younger members of the
church. A significant point in this vast program is
that it is administered and operated entirely by vol-
unteer leadership.

In these two figures you have an indication of
what can be accomplished when a church sets its
heart on a recreation program that will not only
afford its youth healthy release, but will also offer
a constructive plan for the development of talents
and abilities. Members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints or Mormons knew what
they were doing when they pioneered the field of
recreation. Their motto is, “Everybody Active.”

This includes everyone, even the older folks who
have their Old Folks’ Day.

Author i: arrirtant principal of Ogden High School;
vice-prerident in charge of recreation, Utah Depart-
ment of Health, Phyrical Education and Recreation.

RECREATION

For more than three quarters of a century, the
Mormon Church has been organized to guide the
leisure time of its members through active partici-
pation in recreation, promoting mutual improve-
ment through the specialized activities, such as
drama, art, sports, dancing, handcrafts.

Recreation also helps to promote the philosophy
of the church, since a favorite bit of its scripture
reads, “Men are that they might have joy.” Man
has many inherent capacities for joy—physical,
mental, spiritual, social, and creative. The recrea-
tion program under church guidance attempts to
contribute to each of these natural capacities. The
greater the progress made, the more talents devel-
oped, the greater is the capacity of the individual
for happiness and enjoyment.

In the Mormon philosophy, there is no time for
idleness. Latter-day Saints are firm believers in
the adage, “Satan ‘finds some mischief still for idle
hands to do.” Therefore, the church makes time
for play which contributes to the health and happi—
ness of the individual, feeling that “the youth who
are busily'engaged in recreation activities have lit—
tle opportunity to form bad habits.”

Recreation played an important part in the life
of the Mormon pioneer as he struggled to conquer
the desert and colonize the Great Basin, even before
there were formal organizations to care for leisure-
time activity. Recreation gave the pioneer strength
and incentive to face his hardships and the arduous
journey ahead, changed sorrow to happiness, and
gave peace to tired and discouraged spirits.

One of the first buildings to be established in the
new community was the Social Hall Theatre, where
the local dramatic groups presented their plays, and
where community dances, debates and public speak-
ing events were held on a community-wide basis.
This afforded a pattern for other communities as
they were organized. The meeting house became
the center for recreation and religious meetings.

Later, when the struggle for existence was not
so desperate, the Salt Lake Theatre was erected in
Salt Lake City. The first play, “The Pride of the
Market,” was produced in 1861. This theatre be—
came internationally known, and the greatest ar-
tists of the world have graced its boards. It is
recorded that patrons brought their fruits, vege-
tables, grain or poultry, and deposited these in" ex-
change for tickets. Among one evening’s receipts
recorded for an early day program, there were
“twenty bushels of wheat, five of corn, four of
potatoes, two of oats, four of salt, two hams, one live
pig, one wolfskin, five pounds of honey in the comb,
sixteen strings of sausage, one catskin, one churn,
one set of children’s undergarments—embroidered,

AUGUST 1949

one keg of applesauce, a dog, and a German silver
coffin plate.”

On November 28, 1869, the Young Women’s
Mutual Improvement Association was organized by
the church. The Young Men’s Mutual Improvement
Association was organized on June IO, I87 5. These
two organizations, familiarly known as the M.I.A.,
have worked in close coordination since 1880. They
are charged with the dual responsibility of giving
instruction in correct principles of living, and in
the development of healthy recreation activities.
The program takes the boys and girls at the age of
twelve through adolescence and adulthood. One
of its general objectives is: “To develop a well-
rounded program of recreation which shall con—
stantly appeal to youth and, at the same time, re-
build and renew the physical, mental and Spiritual
powers of those who participate.”

The M.I.A. is organized in each ward, a ward
consisting of a geographic area where from 500 to
1,000 church members reside. Five to ten wards
make a stake, and in each stake there is a stake

' M .I.A. organization to assist the wards. Overall,

there are [two general boards to outline the pro-
gram and help all stakes and wards.

A ward organization is made up of a Young
Men’s Mutual Improvement Association, which has
a superintendency of three members; a secretary-
treasurer; directors of music, drama, speech arts;
a dance manager and instructor; Improvement Era
(church magazine) director; supervisor of special
interest groups ; Boy Scout troop committee; Senior
Scout leader; a Scoutmaster ; three “M” men 'su-
pervisors—one for lesson work, one for activities,
and the- third to act as athletic coach.

The Young W omen’s M.I.A., which works
closely with the young men’s group, has a presi-
dency, consisting of three members; a secretary-
treasurer; directors of music, drama, speech arts ; a
dance instructor; Improvement Era director; a
supervisor of special interests; two Gleaner Girl
supervisors; a Junior Girl supervisor, and one or
more supervisors of the Bee Hive Girls.

One night a week is set aside for the M.I.A.
program. Classes are organized for the following
groups: ‘

I. Special interest groups of men and women
twenty-five years of age and over. The groups elect
the projects to be studied, the range of which may
run from travel or current events 'to individual
skills in art, music, and the like. Outside specialists
are invited to present new and challenging interests.

2. The “M” Men—nineteen to twenty-five years

of age have a course of study adapted to their age
and interests.

i

231

3. The Gleaner Girls—aged seventeen to twenty-
five. Their course of study is similar to that of the
“M” Men.

4. The Explorers—boys, aged fifteen to seven-

teen. The "Explorers Handbook” is used by this
group.

5. The Junior Girls—ages fifteen to sixteen, in—
clusive. They also have a course of study eSpecially
prepared to meet their interests and needs.

6. Boy Scouts—ages twelve to fourteen, who
follow the program of the Boy Scouts of America.

7. Bee Hive Girls—in the age level of the Boy
Scouts, who have a Special handbook as a course
of study.

Activity periods are planned for all departments
in addition to the time allotted for following the
course of study. During the course of the year, the
“M” Men and the Gleaner Girls meet together
for some of their recreation and social activities, as
do the Senior Scouts and Junior Girls.

A division of responsibility is established for
each officer of the M.I.A. program. One of the as-
sistant superintendents for the men, and one‘ of the
counselors in the women’s group direct the recrea-
tion courses and other recreation activities. They
stand at the head of the recreation committee, made
up of the directors in music, drama, speech and
dancing. Under their direction, the activity pro-
gram is planned for the entire association. Festivals
are held in music, drama, speech and dancing at
convenient times during the year, as motivating
features of these major activities.

A churchwide athletic program is outlined for
boys and young men from fifteen to twenty-five
years of age. In 1947, from eight to ten thousand
young men, aged eighteen to twenty-four, partici-
pated in the churchwide “M” Men Basketball
League, which has been recognized as the largest
basketball league in the world. In the Explorer
program, boys carry on district athletic tourna-
ments. In some districts, as many as 1,300 boys
have participated in the tournaments.

To facilitate such an extensive recreation pro-
gram, the Mormon Church includes a recreation
hall in each church building. These halls vary in
type, some being well-adapted to dancing, socials
and dramatics, others including facilities for basket—
ball and indoor sports. In some cases, there is a
kitchen for socials and church dinners.

According to reports for the year 1946-1947,
there were 170 stakes with 1,327 ward M.I.A. or-
ganizations, and more than 151,436 young men and
women were enrolled. Activities and participants
indicate the scope of the program:

232

Stake events—III summer outings; 1,813 par—
ties; 719 dances.

\Vard events—1,965 parties in the summer sea-
son ; 21,050 parties in‘the winter season.

Drama—1,3 53 plays from Book of Plays; 1,687
other plays ; 21,367 persons taking part.

Dance—11,639 instruction periods; 534 miscel-
laneous stake dances; 5,676 miscellaneous ward
dances ; 252 dance festivals ; 185 stake Gold and
Green Balls ; 878 ward Gold and Green Balls.

Music—2 53 male choruses ; "62 ladies choruses;
378 mixed choruses ; 17,053r participants; 268 mu-
sic festivals.

Speech—15,132 public addresses; 3,980 retold
stories; 799 debates ; 7,052 readings ; 131 speech
festivals.

Recreation in the Latter-day Saints Church has
developed leadership in its young people. It has en-
riched their lives, broadened their vision, inspired
them to travel the road toward more abundant liv-
ing. The cultural pattern of the entire member-
ship is elevated; good fellowship and group morale
are generated on a high plane.

Inactive members become active, pe0ple have the
opportunity to put into action the ideals and stand-
ards taught by the church. Lessons in sportsman—
ship, honesty and c00peration can be made a part of
real life for the boys in the church athletic league.
The deveIOpment of personality with spiritual touch
is evident in the boys and girls who participate in the
drama, speech, music or dancing program. -

The Mormon Church, through its support of rec-
reation, helps establish a high cultural and moral
tone in all communities where Mormons are active.

 

FILMS TO SEE

Motion pictures of last year’s—or, in fact, the
past fourteen years’—VVorld Series are available in
both 16mm. and 35mm. film. For information.
write to Lew Fonseca, American and National Base-
ball Leagues, 64 East Jackson Boulevard, Chicago
4, Illinois.

A new recreation film, “Leaders for Leisure,” is
being made available by the 1 Tew York State Youth
Commission for distribution through the Motion
Picture Unit of the New York State Department of
Commerce. “Leaders for Leisure” is a 16mm.
sound film in color, with a running time of twenty-
one minutes. Produced by the Athletic Institute of
Chicago, Illinois, as a sequel to “Playtown,U.S.A.,”
it deals very effectively with the development of
community recreation.

RECREATION

- ROSLYN’S ROUGH RIDERS

Year-round hosteling, by bike, hike or ski, is a school-
sponsored activity in the Roslyn, Long Island, High
School. Learning, seeing, doing, under students’ own

steam is a school project your community could start too!

Adeline Bullock

0 YOU REMEMBER how you struggled with the

dull job of memorizing Lincoln’s Gettysburg

Address? “Four score and seven years ago,” you’d

begin, confidently. But from that point on you’d

muddle through while a bored class waited. Dead

words, you thought. Why should we have to learn
them anyway?

These same words are still being taught in the
classrooms of. today. But they’ve been given new
life to members of the Roslyn High School Hostel
Club. These teen-agers have done more than mem-

 

Hostelers at the Lincoln Memorial, Washington, D. C.

AUGUST 1949

orize them from a book. Recently, twenty-one of
the club members visited Gettysburg’s historic bat-
tlefield. They biked there on their way back from
a Washington, D. C., trip. They stood before the
very spot where Lincoln made his address. And
there, on that quiet hallowed battleground, the
simple words which Lincoln spoke seemed to
march right off the pages of their battered text—
books and become part of a live and vivid scene.

For the rest of these youngsters’ lives, when—
ever, wherever, they hear those words again. they
will not place them against a lifeless page of a his-
tory book in-a stuffy schoolroom, but against a
real-life backdrop of the Gettysburg scene itself.
This is true learning.

3ut enlivening past history is not the only value
which these students have gained from their.bike,
hike, and ski trips. “The trips have helped to give
them a real education in living!” Frank Walter, the
group’s young teacher-leader told me.

Education in Living would make a fitting name

° for this Roslyn High School activity. Its subjects

might well be groupedunder such headings as
Meeting New People, Planning Meals, Sharing
Responsibility, Budgeting, and Building Self-Reli-
ance. Having learned textbook lessons in social
studies, English, arithmetic, health, these young-
sters are now given the chance to put their knowl-
edge to work in real-life situations.

The idea started before the war, not as a school
activity, but as something one teacher was doing
on his own. It was interrupted by the war, but
it wasn’t forgotten.

Young brothers and sisters of those first bike-
trippers reminded Mr. Walter of it when he came
out of the Army. They begged him to start it
again. He was willing, and began with a few local
trips. The youngsters came back from these so
enthusiastic, so stirred by what they had seen and
learned, that the wide values of the activity were

233 .

quickly recognized by members of this alert and
progressive community.

M r. Walter was called to the office of the Super-
intendent of Schools. “The Board of Education
wants you to know it is solidly behind your hostel-
ing project,” Superintendent George Bryant told
him. “The board has asked me to offer you a re-
‘muneration for this, in addition to your salary as
art and photography teacher. It wants to sponsor
a regular hosteling group with you as leader.”

So today the activity is no longer an out-of-
school affair. The Roslyn High School Hostel
Club is a vital school organization, and trips need
no longer be confined to the exact limits of school
vacations—they may cut into school days.

“All of us here at Roslyn—the board, our high
school principal, Mr. Ross, and I thoroughly agree
that these trips afford our students rich educational
opportunities which we cannot afford to ignore,”
Superintendent Bryant said.

As for the youngsters, they agree, too, that
cycling through the coal mining regions of Penn-
sylvania, for example, seeing its rugged ridges and
pits, talking with miners, seeing their way of life,
has reading from books beat by a long mile.

Their trips have taken them in all directions;
there have been short week—end jaunts and long-
distance trips. For the benefit of those who have
no 'bicycles, they have hiked along the northern
sector of the Appalachian Trail. Last Christmas
holiday they skied at North Conway, New Hamp—
shire. But cycling is by far the most popular ac-
tivity. They have pedaled through New Jersey,
various regions of New England, along trails in
upstate New York—where they visited the Capi-
tol—out to the tip end of Long Island, over by
ferry to Shelter Island, through sections of the
beautiful Connecticut River Valley, down through
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and \Vashing-
ton, D.C. -

One summer Mr. Walter took a group of se-
niors on a cycling trip through Mexico, and last
October the group 5 outdoor schoolroom was the
brilliant autumn forests, the nature trails and
waterfalls of the Alpine-like regions of western
Massachusetts.

Unfortunately, the cycling trips are limited at
present to those who own a bike or can borrow
one. But it is hoped that some day soon there will
be available a few bikes for those who have none
of their own.

Usually from ten to twenty students go on each
trip. The older students who will be graduating
soon are sometimes given the preference, but the
younger ones have something to look forward to

234

when they become juniors and seniors. With the
constant turn-over in a school, this method gives
all who are interested a chance to participate.

But just how does the whole thing work? Let’s
look in on a meeting of the Hostel Club. It may
be January but plans for the Spring trip are being
started. Mr. \Valter keeps in the background. He
counsels and guides, but never tries to run things.

“Let’s go to W'ashington, D.C. l” someone sug-
gests.

A map is tacked up and the interest value, not
only of Washington, but of the entire territory be-
tween Roslyn, Long Island, and Washington, is
considered. There will be lots to see, they decide,
s0 \Vashington it is.

They figure that they have about ten days or so
in the Spring vacation in which to make the trip.
“\Vhy not concentrate our cycling time on the'
region between \Vashington and Reading, Penn-
sylvania ?” someone suggests. This seems like a
good idea for it is new territory.

"\Ve’ll go to Baltimore by train, ship the bikes
on ahead,” they plan. At Baltimore they’ll start
the cycling part of the trip, pedal to \Vashington
and return by way of Reading.

This means that they will cycle through “fash-

' ington, see Mount Vernon, pedal their way up

through W'estminster, visit Thurmont—-—the lovely
mountain retreat where President Roosevelt 'had
his hide-away, stop at Gettysburg, Hershey, see
some of the Pennsylvania Dutch country, and the
mining section outside of Reading. ,

Once this is decided they can all get to work
on details. A Transportation Committee is ap-
pointed whose responsibility it is to purchase all
the train tickets, arrange about shipping the bikes
to Baltimore and back home from Reading.

The Hostel Committee has the job of scheduling
an itinerary that will cover the points of interest
and bring them to an accredited youth hostel each
night. They must put their letter-writing knowl-
edge to work by writing to arrange for overnight
reservations, making sure that the hostel can ac-
commodate their number, and finding out what
shopping facilities for food supplies are available
nearby. Often hostels are outside of towns, on
farms, and the group may have to buy supplies on
the way.

This committee tries to schedule all the over-
night stops at places approximately thirty-five to
forty miles apart. This distance affords a leisurely
cycling pace of eight miles an hour for about five
hours a day and leaves time for sightseeing along

the way.
Accredited hostels, under the supervision of the

RECREATION

American Youth ‘Hostels, Incorporated, are used
by people of all ages who are travelling under their
own steam—"by bike, hike, horseback, ski or canoe.
The overnight charge is forty cents for youths,
fifty cents for adults.

There are separate bunk rooms and wash rooms
for boys and girls, a common kitchen where they
can do their own cooking, and usually a‘recreation
room. Each hosteler is required to have a pass—
which he can obtain for a small fee from any
American Youth Hostel Council——-and a sleeping
bag.

While the Transportation and Hosteling Com—
mittees “are busy doing their jobs, the Finance
Committee is working on trip costs, budgeting food
expenses and overnight charges and arriving, at a
total cost figure. It tries to keep all trips under
a dollar and a quarter a day for everything except
railroad fare. This committee collects all the
money, keeps accounts of expenditures and gives
a full accounting of every penny after the trip is
over. The youngsters listen attentively to this ac-
counting, for most of them have worked to earn
their money for the trip and they are very fussy
how that money gets spent.

Whenever a trip may cut into school days, every
trip—member must obtain permission from his in-
dividual teachers to be absent from class.

“It’s really surprising how well these youngsters
can do when they want permission to be away on
a trip,” one teacher told me.

Meanwhile, every member of the group is ex-
pected to read up on the culture, history, folk-lore
of the regions to be visited. Reports are given on
what they’ve read, sometimes by means of English
composition, sometimes by oral recitation, at club
meetings held previous to taking the trip. The
youngsters have found out for themselves that
knowing something of the background of a region,
knowing what to look for in the way of scenery,
architecture, crops, adds a great deal to the total
enjoyment of the trip. Many of them take cameras,
some take art materials. Why not? With their
art and photography teacher as leader they have
the best kind of opportunity to add practical ex-
perience to classroom learning.

Once they are on their way, they all take a turn
at planning meals, marketing for food, cooking
and cleaning up. Their health class lessons are
utilized in planning simple nourishing meals and
marketing wisely. They always try to have two
hot meals a day—breakfast and supper—and to
include,a pint of milk per person every meal.
Lunch is a sandwich—fruit-and-—cookie snack beside
a stream or sitting on a hill-top along the trail.

AUGUST 1949

 

Their trips have taken them in all directions. Here
they are seen boarding the ferry to Shelter Island.

Hostels are always simple places, sometimes rug-
ged. Set up in renovated barns or old farmhouses,
there’s often wood to be chopped, water to be
drawn from the pump, fires to be made before a
meal can even be started. “These hungry kids

'3}

pitch in like real pioneers].

One of the rules of hosteling is to leave every
place neater than you found it. There’s never any
difficulty in getting these youngsters to live up
to that rule. Other honored customs are to arrive
at a hostel before dark, to observe a ten o’clock
bedtime curfew. The youngsters are happily weary
before that time and are perfectly willing to turn
in early and be up to watch the sunrise together. ,
Often by nine o’clock, they start heading bunk-
ward.

“They’re fun to be with,” Frank Walter said.
“There’s nothing wrong with the youngsters of
today. The wrong is that they’ve been born into
a spectator’s world. Many young people nowadays
think that they can’t have fun unless they’re driven
to the movies in the family car; unless they have
a radio at their elbow or a television set to watch.”

Frank Walter forgets his natural shyness and
reticence in his earnestness.

“But Spectator-participation in life is not What
youth wants,” he went on. “Youth needs active
participation. If they don’t have it they get bored,
restless, start looking for excitement and end' up
in trouble. ’

“That’s hosteling’s value. These youngsters
need travel under their own steam. They need
being dependent on their own resources ; they need
to learn something about the simple 1ife———to get
closer to nature, closer to God. I believe that it
will make better men and women of all of them.”

You are bound to run into some bad weather,

235

rough roads, especially on long trips. But it’s a
lesson in good sportsmanship to take such things
in one’s stride without griping. One morning the
group woke to the steady sound of teeming rain.
Travel that day was out. There they were in a
backwoods farm hostel, without radio, movies or
television.

Whatever would they do? They had a wonder-
ful day. They spent the day cooking and eating.
They baked a ham straight from the farmer’s
smokehouse, chicken and dumplings, a stew, and
a batch of cookies. They ate and sang and played
homespun games all day. The youngsters still
laugh and talk about the fun they had.

But there are other things they talk of too . . .
- Easter morning Sunrise Service at the Tomb of
the Unknown Soldier; the woodland trail they
pedaled along that led straight through a silver
stream; a brand new sound they heard one early
morning—a sound not one had ever heard before-
the plaintive bleating of a baby lamb at a Con-
necticut farm hospital; the many different kinds of
churches they attended along the way; the dignity
of a farmer leading his cows home at sundown;
the simple way of life in an Amish settlement.
These are but a few of the things they shall not
soon forget. “Together, we learned that there are
many other good ways of life beside the Roslyn
way.” That lesson alone would seem to make the
venture worthwhile.

But perhaps the rriost remarkable thing about
the whole project is its simplicity. Any com-
munity in the country could do it. It doesn’t re-
quire huge school funds, additional teachers or
change in curriculum. All it needs is a lively
group of youngsters, with or without bikes, and a
willing, interested teacher.

Every community in the nation has its own in-
teresting history, culture, folk-lore, sightseeing
material which many youngsters, nearby, never
get to see. The American Youth Hostels, a non-
profit organization, is glad 'to assist teachers and
students in organizing a school hosteling program.

These Roslyn Rough Riders are getting an edu-
cation in living—democratic living. They are not
only adding .to their store of knowledge, but they
are gaining a broad understanding of a varied group
of customs. They are learning to practice good
citizenship through teamwork, through sharing the
give and take of the road, respecting its rules and
considering the rights of others. Moreover, the
stimulus given their young imaginations by these
new sights and sounds will be found to have a last-
ing effect upon each individual's future intellectual
outlook.

“It is in the minds of men that the defenses of
peace must be constructed,” the Preamble to the
United Nations Charter tells us. It is in the minds
of youth that such construction must begin.

Camping 01] the Campus

NEW IDEA in camps was established last sum-
mer at Syracuse University, New York,
where the all-girl Green Lakes Camp completed its
first season. Admittedly an experiment in summer
living, it was established by Mrs. Charles Kauf-
man of Rochester to provide a profitable summer
vacation for the “in—between” group of girls—high
school juniors and seniors and college freshmen.
These girls, too old for regular, regimented camps
and too young to be counselors, benefit from .the
combination-of. learning and fun that such a camp as
Green Lakes can offer.

The camp’s headquarters are in two college soror-
ity houses, overlooking the beautiful campus of Syr-
acuse University. The facilities of the college are
close at hand for those girls who wish to improve
their educational background, but such activities
are voluntary rather than compulsory. A maximum
of outdoor activity is available, including golf, ten-

236

v Maud Seif

nis, riding, swimming and body mechanics. Atten-
tion is paid to developing poise and personality in
the girls by expert counselors, who guide the camp’s
routine. Finally, an abundant social life rounds out
the program.

The typical week of a Green Lakes’ camper in-
cludes many delightful features. Besides the regu-
lar program of sports and culture, there are outlets
for any interest a teen-age girl may have. A semi-
monthly mimeographed newspaper is published;
there are trips to points of interest in central New
York State; lectures are given by guest speakers; a
barn dance and a formal dinner dance are among the
social activities.

This novel camp may point the way for parents
and daughters with camp worries. Green Lakes is-
part camp, part school, and part home—~just right
for the “in-between” group of teen-agers who are a
bubbling mixture of tomboy, girl and woman.

RECREATION

TELEVISMN Am] Community Center Programs

Monte Melamed

FTER A twenty-year infancy, television is finally
beginning to grow up. Its more recent inno-
vation in social work and recreation agencies dur-
ing the past few years has had a serious effect upon
the programs and activities of these organizations.
Club and group activities and special interest classes
on an average Tuesday evening in a community
center or social settlement house have practically
given way to the ever-so-popular Milton Berle show.

Quite often leaders are told, “No, we can’t have
our dance on Tuesday night—everyone will be at
the Milton Berle show!” With over two million
television sets now on the market, and a forecast of
another two million within the next few years, one
hesitates to prophesy what the effects will be on
community center programs should Bob Hope de-
cide to take to video on \Vednesday evenings, Eddie
Cantor on Thursday evenings, Bing Crosby on Fri-
day evenings, and Jack Benny on Monday evenings.

\Vhat does all this mean to our social and recrea-
tional agencies? Simply, that whenever there are no
real, vital and meaningful activities planned to meet
theneeds and interests of the membership, television
will then succeed in “dominating” the agency pro-
gram. Our experience during the past decade tells
us that activities based on the needs and interests of
the membership, and in which the membership is
given its ust share of responsibility in planning and
administering, tend to offer the individual a more
satisfying experience than any commercially-spon—
sored, spectator-type of program.

In questioning over one hundred teen-agers,
young adolescents, and adults as to why they
came to the center, and what prompted them to at-

 

Azttbor it Activities Director, Grand Street Settlement.

AUGUST 1949

Problems which you may
expect to encounter upon
acquiring a television set.

tend the television shows there, the typical reaction
received was, “We did want to go to some other
activity, but there wasn’t a single thing going on in
the center except television.” There are several
agencies where the activities for an average Tues-
day evening simply require one or two staff work-
ers to “police” the auditorium for the Milton Berle
show. Nothing is taking place, and therein lies the
error of the professional worker and the program
planners. This kind of thinking and planning can
be program suicide. If the Milton Berle show is so
popular, what should be done is to plan a variety of
audience participation programs after the show,
such as a community sing, a square dance program,
a forum or discussion, a party or social. Naturally,
these programs will tend to_ become more effectixie
and meaningful when planned through the centEr
councils or committees. - '
Along these lines, the Grand Street Settlemeni’of
New York City has been very successful in planning
programs and special events, before, after, and
around the Milton Berle show on Tuesday evenings.

'In fact, Tuesday is the-most active night of the

week at the settlement. Eight boys’ and girls’ clubs
meet, five special interest activities are going on,
three game rooms are open, a girls’ gym program
is active, and two spacious lounges feature the
comedy television show.

Now let us digress for just a moment, and analyze
some of the major effects of television on home and
family life, and consequently on the programs and
activities of community centers. The average tele-
viewer spends approximately three and one half
hours a day at his television set when he stays at
home and, to do this, gives up certain former home
activities—among them, reading. A recent survey

237

showed that “the longer the family has the set, the
more time its various members spend at it.1 Tele—
vision in the home in some instances, however, has
brought many families closer together. Though it
tends to kill conversation, most listeners seem to
have developed a conversational pattern, particu-
larly during commercials.

\Vhat are some of the implications of this in the
planning of recreation center activities? This in-
crease in impetus toward “spectator sports,” as evi-
denced by the rapid growth of television, screen,
radio, and million dollar sports stadiums and arenas,
is a growing trend in direct antithesis to one of our
major objectives, namely, that of greater spectator
participation.

To develop this participation, therefore, we first
of all must emphasize the teaching of recreation
skills and hobbies. In order to do this, it is well
to remember that television is unquestionably a fine
medium of entertainment and instruction. Plans to
use color television for training of large groups of
medical students in surgical techniques was an-
nounced recently by the medical center of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania.2

Group leaders, educators, and sales promotion
organizations have also become increasingly aware
of the potentialities of television for teaching demon—
strations to large groups. Its effective use as a news
medium for current events or for forums and dis-
cussions is practically unlimited, particularly when
such programs are used in conjunction with, or to
enrich, a club or group project. It is when these
programs tend to become substitutes for group ac—
tivities in community centers, that television then
loses all of its effectiveness, save that of its enter—
tainment value.

Some recreation agencies, professional social
workers, and parents have very foolishly accepted
television as a quick “cure-all” for delinquency.
“Keep them off the streets by letting them watch
television, and thus keep out of trouble,” is the cry
of many agency executives or parents who have
spent their last dollar on a television set. However,
a recent article in the New York Times, relating
the activities of some twenty members of the “Black
Hat” gang of Brownsville, and the accidental shoot-
ing of one of its members, brought forth a very per-
tinent comment from the slain boy’s father, a staff
sergeant of the U. S. Army. The father said that
he “bought a television set recently, and that his
son and friends spent evenings in front of it when
they were not at school.”

In one instance, on the other hand, television was

 

1 The New York Timer, January 21, 1949.
’Tbe New York Timer, February 15. 1949.

238

 

Television can be used to teach recreation skills.

instrumental in forming an effective House Council,
something the agency staff had been working to-
wards for the past few years. Created primarily to
raise the necessary funds to purchase a television
set for the center, this same House Council is cur-
rently responsible for the effective planning and
use of the set for its membership. Day to day oper-
ational problems of television, as it effects the mem-
bership, are now handled exclusively by the repre-
sentatives of the House Council. For example, who
shall be permitted to use the television set and
when is under the sole jurisdiction of the House
Council. \Vhat is to be done with the athletically-
minded youngsters who constantly clamor to see
the fights, the basketball games and the wrestling
matches, or with the girls who want to see some-
thing entertaining, or want to dance in the lounge
instead, is also handled by the House Council.

This council has also been instrumental in get-
ting the center to adjust its working-hours and
schedule to coincide with the timing of the major
sporting events, such as the baseball and football
games on Saturday and Sunday afternoons, or the
weekly boxing bouts at Madison Square Garden
which start at ten p.m., the normal closing time
for many community centers.

After two fruitful years of operation, the council
is now wrestling with the more complex problem of
trying to schedule television to integrate its use with
the overall plans and objectives of the center pro-
gram. In addition, the House Council has initiated
several successful fund-raising projects for the up-
keep and maintenance of the set, without having to
call upon the house budget for the cost of repairs.

The realization of a similar plan could be readily
attained in other agencies if properly motivated and
directed by competent, professional workers.

The pressure of retrenchment which usually fol-

RECREATION

lows rising costs and decreasing contributions may
effect the programs of community centers and their
use of television, namely, in the tendency to use tele-
vision as an inexpensive means of conducting mass
activities.8 All that is needed, some peOple‘will con-
tend, is a television set or two, a large room with
plenty of chairs, and an inexperienced leader or at-
tendant to maintain law and order. This approach,
however, is far removed from sound recreation.
Some other pro and con discussions regarding

television within an agency setting include:

(a) Television may be used as an excellent medium
and instrument for attracting more members to
the center, and thereby giving an opportunity to
involve them in other group activities.

(b) It can be used by coaches and instructors to teach
recreation skills, such as boxing, basketball, wres—
tling and football.

(c) Many community centers reported that, with the
advent of television in their lounges, there was
a marked increase in gambling and betting, espe-
cially during sporting events, the payoff usually
taking place outside the center or in the privacy
of the men’s room.

(d) Since most agencies are very limited in space, the
installation of a television set, usually in the lounge
or game room, has meant the curtailment of cer-

 

3Kiplinger's Washington Newsletter, Sept. 11, 1948. "There's a
nation-wide lag in ifts, to charity. to churches, to schools and colleges.
Big donations are own a little, but the great multitude of small and
medium donations are down even more."

tain creative group participating activities.

(e) The presence of television sets in community cen-
ters has been a factor in reducing the amount of
money spent by some of its members on movies
and entertainment. This is a very real service to
persons in low income groups, and especially im—
portant in difficult times.

(f) Country and day camps will find television an as—
set." It may be used for newscasts, sporting events,
entertainment of campers and counselors, particu-
larly on rainy days and during inclement weather.
One organizational camp installed a television set
in its infirmary to entertain the sick.

(g) It is the contention of many professional workers
that television interferes with the established pat—
tern of center activities and club programs. How-
ever, it is the writer’s firm conviction that tele-
vision in social agencies, or in the homes of center
members: need not interfere with the basic pattern
of programming. Television, properly used, adds
and inspires rather than detracts from the activi-
ties of the community center. To integrate tele—
vision into the center program, the sets shOuld be
used in the same manner as the radio. the record-
player, films and other visual aid material.

A final note. This article is not designed to criti-
cize television or render a discourse on the reSpon-
sibility of television to the public. It is simply an
attempt to call to the attention of community center
workers some of the difficulties they may expect to
encounter upon purchasing a television set for their
agencies, and how to cope with such problems.

The Comics as “Whipping Boy”

Irresponsible accusations levelled against comics
magazines as a cause of juvenile delinquency “are
without credible evidence to support the charge,” it
was declared by Henry E. Schultz, executive direc-
tor and general counsel of the Association of Comics
Magazine Publishers, in an address before the de-
linquency section of the National Conference of So-
cial Work in Cleveland. Mr. Schultz was one of
the speakers at the meeting of social workers on
“The Influence of Motion Pictures, Radio and
Comic Books on Children.”

\Vhile agreeing that a small minority of publish-
ers have distributed comics magazines that “justi-
fiably disturb decent citizens,” Mr. Schultz stated
that the rush to make comics a “whipping boy,” or
scapegoat, has attracted headline-hunters. who have
succeeded in frightening parents and teachers.

Mr. Schultz directly attacked the charges of Dr.
Frederic VVertham, psychiatrist, who, he said, has
criticized comics vigorously and emotionally, “if not
scientifically and logically." He also asserted that
practically all the expert testimony of psychiatrists,

psychologists and social workers is in disagreement
with Dr. \Vertham.

AUGUST 1949

Excerpts from the Schultz address:

“A substantial start in self-regulation has been
accomplished by organization of the Association of
Comics Magazine Publishers, Incorporated.

“First, all products of members are required to
be screened in accordance with a code previously
adopted. . . . In conferences with editors, new
techniques in handling story materials were devel-
oped, avoiding offensive delineation. Publications
complying with code restrictions were awarded the
association seal of approval to appear prominently
on the covers of the magazines.

“Secondly, an attempt had to be made to under—

. stand and meet the attacks on comics, and particu-

larly the grave charge that they contributed to ju—
venile delinquency.

“Let me say, here and now, as emphatically and
vigorously as I can, that this charge, repeated over
and over again, is absolutely without credible evi-
dence to support it. Research, analysis and consul-
tation with qualified opinion in this field support
this position. . . . Statistics on juvenile delin-
quency indicate a sharp drop for the past several
years coincident with a great rise in comics sales.”

239

Tracking Games

RACKING GAMES ARE fun and, at the same time,

develop the senses that must be used in real
tracking and trailing. Good eyesight and a well—
developed sense of observation are fundamental req—
uisites of a good tracker, and these qualities are
often greatly improved by play.

TR.le MAKERS. There are a number of methods
of making trails. Of course, snow, soft ground, or
sand offer excellent opportunities for trail making
(A), in illustration on this page. However, when
the ground is not favorable, some sort of “trail
maker” is necessary. On city sidewalks, chalk
marks are suliicient (B). In the woods, fields and
meadows, some sort of glaze or broken and disk

TRAIL MAKER

“'0..-

o
.-

 

DISTURBtD
D VEGETATION
CORN AND OTHER GRAINS . 9-
FOR TRAIL. MAKING 4’

H
P

%

 

.-

TRACKINCI BLOCK TRACKING IRONS”

Ellsworth J aeger

turbed vegetation (C) may be used to mark a trail.

Kernels of corn or other grain may be dropped
from time to time to mark a trail (D). Again, small
piecestof colored cardboard may be stuck into the
bark of trees or bright colored chalk marks may be
made upon tree trunks at eye level (E). One type
of trail marker is made from a section of a small log,
studded with small spikes. A staple is driven into
one end, to which a rope is attached  As a run-
ner drags this along the ground, the log leaps,
scrapes and hops about in an amazing manner, mak—
ing a very erratic trail.

If the ground is soft, “tracking blocks” can be
made and bound to the feet. \Vhen the wearer
walks, he leaves the life-like tracks of the animal
whose footprints are carved into the blocks (G).

Another type of trail marker is the “tracking
irons." These are fastened to the soles of the shoes
(H) and will cut into the ground more deeply than
the wood block tracks.

TRACKING GAMES. A well-known common trail-
ing game is “Hare and Hounds.” This has been
played on the city streets for generations.

The “hare” has a piece of chalk and is given a
three-minute start. As he runs, he makes a chalk
mark from time to time on the sidewalks. The
“hounds” follow the chalk marks and each “hound”
must place his mark across the “hare’s” blazes as
he speeds on his way. The chase may cover a dozen
blocks. If the hare succeeds in getting back to his
starting point without being caught by the hounds,
he is the winner. Hounds may bag the hare by
catching up with him and touching him. Each
hound should carry a distinctive colored chalk, so
that a check can be made as to his faithfuhiess in
marking each blaze he passes.

CITY TRACKING. This is a game where each con-
testant makes a record of the different tracks he
can find in a city block. These tracks may be made

Aat/Jor i: Curator of Education, Bugalo Mmeum of
S ciexce; author of "IVildwood Wirdom,” "Eary Craftr.”

RECREATION

by any living creature—bird, mammal, insect, man,
woman or child. The one finding the greatest num-
ber of tracks is the winner.

CITY TRAIL BLAZES. In this game, a group will
hike a mile or two along city streets to see how many
modern city blazes each one can find. Blazes may be
streetcar or bus stOps, stop lights, safety zones,
traffic markers, police and fire boxes, direction
pointers, one-way street markers. The person who
collects the greatest number is the winner. A blaze
is a simple sign conveying information without
words. City blazes are the descendants of those used
by the wilderness savages and, in some instances,
the mark is the very same used in an earlier time.

MODERN ROAD BLAZES. On your next auto ride
into the country, see how many road signs your
party can identify. This is a good way to learn the
modern road signs used in your “auto driver’s
manual.” For instance, identify and know the
meaning of broken lines, solid lines, double solid
lines, three-lane roads, st0p signs, st0p-and-go, slow,
railroad crossings, “S” curves, crossroads, side
roads, the meaning of diamond, octagonal, round
and square road signs. Use your state driver’s man-
ual for information.

EARLY TRAIL BLAZES. Your neighborhood offers
an interesting evening’s discussion. Have each
member of the group try to track down early trail
blazers of your community and give the stories of
their exploration. Also try to find the early trails
and travel routes which some of your modern streets
and roads may follow. Your historical museum and
libraries can be of help.

TREASURE HUNTS. In the park, by using various
blazes with stones, long grass, twigs and tree blazes,
a hunt can be made quite exciting, especially if
there is a worthwhile treasure at the end of the
trail. Instead of ch0pping blazes into the bark
of trees, stick a small, round piece of white card-
board into the bark. The first one to unravel the
trail will find the treasure. Any number can par—
ticipate. The trail is laid out in advance and all be-
gin at a starting point and follow the trail blazes.
The various types of blazes should be scattered
along the trail so that the individual’s observation
will be well taxed.

TRAIL STORIES IN SNOW. Take a winter hike to
a nearby woods or park and have your hikers follow
an individual animal’s trail, making notes and rough
sketches of all that the trail tells. At the end of the
hike, gather together in the evening, perhaps around
the fireplace, and have each one relate his findings.
The person who has the most detailed and interest-
ing story is the winner. 

INDIAN WAR TRAIL. Each participant in this

AUGUST 1949

game makes an Indian scalp of a round piece of
leather or felt three and one—half inches in diameter,
with long strands of horsehair, string, yarn, thread
or raffna threaded through the middle. A loop for
fastening the scalp is attached to the leather or felt.
This is the individual’s scalp, which he may lose if
he is not careful on the war trail. The “hostiles”
make a fairly obvious trail by disturbing vegetation,
turning over stones, bending twigs, uprooting small
bits of moss, making footprints in the soft earth or
mud, and so on. Each clue is wOrth a certain per
cent of.the whole. Players keep records of each clue
that they find in sequence, so that it can be com-
pared with the master record. The one who spots
the greatest number of clues and discovers the “hos-
tiles” is the rwinner and collects their scalps. If the
trackers fail to discover the “hostiles,” they lose
their scalps to the enemy.

SNOW—TRAILING THE BEAR. The “bear” wears
a hood with round ears sewed to it, carries a three-
foot club made of burlap stuffed with straw, and
has a balloon fastened securely to his back. The
hunters wear caps and carry large handkerchiefs
with a knot tied at one end. The bear is given a
ten minute start and the hunters follow his trail in
the snow. The first one to come upon the bear tries
to kill him by breaking the balloon with the knotted

     
 

   
  

(JAME—

GREAT HORNE!)
om.

m 4
I
.~ ,,_/5

  

\VILD ANIMALS HOME-

_  v W
‘ *5" grunt squuuLu.
{ q.  \VOOO‘PECKER.‘

   
 
 

  

a; n.va squmnel.
0”,“

TENT "‘ 6, m
CATERPILLAIL

   
    
 

  

SPARROW
H A \V K...

  
  
    

r' .’
'cmrmuuw. N
Cl AOA - -

J I...‘ ‘4.“ "m"
,m enamwoam

  
  
   

  
  

F O X
PORCUPINE

OPOSSUM
V

    
  

as

  

    

     

/ - ' '
"* CRAY-$115+ . '
\ m CHIMNEY ,

    
   

241

     
 
 

handkerchief. The bear, in turn, can put the hunter
out of the game by knocking the hunter’s cap off
with the straw club. The light and hunt continue
until the bear is bagged or all the hunters are
“killed.” In making the trail, the bear can use all
the ingenuity and strategy at his command, making
use of side-stepping, backtracking, ambush, and the
like.

SETON’s TRAILING GAME. Ernest Thompson
Seton used to play a trailing game in camp. One
of the campers, who was chosen as the deer, wore a
pair of tracking irons and was given one hundred
beans, thirty slices of potatoes and a ten minute
start. He could make his trail as crooked as he
pleased, dropping a bean every three or four yards, a

slice of potato every twenty yards. After a ten '

minute run, the deer would hide in the brush. The
trackers following him then picked up the beans and
potato slices, each bean counting one point and each
slice of potato two. The one who discovered the
deer scored ten points.

TRACK QUIZ. Make a number of black and
white drawings of common tracks on cardboard.
squares large enough to be seen at a distance. Ar-
range the players in two liles facing each other,
and run the program like a spelling bee. Start at
the head of the lines. If the person in the first line
fails to recognize the track, the one on the opposite
side is given a chance to identify it. The person
who fails to identify a track is dropped from the
group. The game is played until only one player
remains.

TRAIL DETECTIVES. A party is divided into two
groups. The first group, given scissors and white
paper, selects the tracks of several animals and cuts
the footprints out of paper, enough to make trails
that will tell of some incident. This group then
proceeds to lay out the various trails upon the
floor, and the other group tries to identify the ani-
mals’ footprints and interpret the story. If this
group succeeds, it is given an opportunity to’cut
the tracks and lay the paper trails.

WILD ANIMALS HOME GAME. Have a group
scatter through a small woodland. Each player has
a notebook and pencil and each one keeps a record
of all the signs of animal homes that he finds in
the area. The one who spots the greatest number
is the winner. The drawing on page 241 shows a
number of such apartments that might be seen:
(A) shows a typical woodpecker hole, (B) a
screech owl’s, squirrel’s or sparrow hawk’s pent-
house, (C) a leaf tree house of the gray squirrel,
(D) a raccoon tree home, (E) the hollow tree den
of porcupine, gray fox or possum, (F) a chipmunk’s
burrow, (G) a woodchuck, rabbit or skunk hole,

242.

(H) a remodeled deer mouse nest, (I) an ant
nest, (J) earthworm’s burrow, (K) a crayfish
chimney home, (L) a muskrat bank burrow and
a muskrat cattail house in the swamp,  a
kinghsher’s or cliff swallow’s burrow, (N) cicada
tunnels, (0) ant lion’s funnel, (P) ant cow’s
stable, (Q) potter wasp nest, (R) cecropia cocoon,
(S) tent caterpillar nest, (T) mole burrow, (U)
ruffed grouse nest, (V) burrowing wasp, (W)
otter slide,  meadow mouse, (Y) great horned
owl. There are, of course, many more that tell of
an animal’s presence as surely as do his tracks.

TRACKING SUGGESTIONS. Keep a track note-
book. See how many autobiographies you can lind
after each snowfall. Make tracking irons of metal.
Make a trail marker. Make plaster casts. Look
for old remains of Indian trail blazing. Try to find
trail routes of early explorers in your neighbor-
hood. Make various types of track casts. Make a
dust autograph album. If you know of a tracking
game, please send it to the writer and you will be
given credit for it.

If you follow unknown, woodland trails, be sure
to blaze the way as you go, for it is the sign of a
good woodsman to be able to find your way back.

Reprinted from “Tracks and Trailcraft." Copyright 1948. Used by
permission of the Macmillan Co.. New York, publishers. $3.95.

LITTLE SCOUTS

 

“What’ll we do now, Mr. Johnson? We finished

the checker tournament.”

RECREATION

An 0hservanne of
Parks and Recreation Week

5 A PART of'a successful observance of the first Parks and Recreation Week in Fort Wayne, Indiana,
A an essay contest on, “What Fort Wayne Means to Me,” was held’ among seventh and eighth grade stu-
dents of the. public and private schools of the city. This probably will be continued from year to year.
Teachers of language, arts or English were requested to stimulate classroom discussion of the subject, and
to allow sufficient classroom time for essay writing. They were then responsible for turning the best essays
over to school committees for preliminary udging. City judging was done by udges from the Fort Wayne
Council of Teachers of English. Winning students appeared on the mayor’s radio program.

Winning Essays

First in City

To have an enjoyable inexpensive vacation you don’t
have to go to Florida or California. We have beauti-
ful parks for vacationing right here in Fort Wayne.

The scenery in our parks is just as beautiful as in
any real vacationing spots. For instance West Swin-
ney Park has its lovely Jaenicke gardens, and Lake-
side park has beautiful rose gardens, fountains, and
lagOons.

Parks such as Memorial and Swinney have his-
torical features. In Swinney there is a museum. Me—

.morial has several statues of famous people. °

If you like water sports there are parks for that
too. Lawton, Swinney and Memorial have swimming
pools. Reservoir park is an excellent place for fishing.
It is especially known for its bait casting. Municipal
Beach is also good for fishing and swimming.

Almost every park has a place to play some kind of
ball. There are tennis courts, baseball diamonds, golf,
and in some parks there are baskets for basketball.

There are parks for games too. You will find arch-
ery in Franke. Franke also has a zoo and a bird
sanctuary. In these you will find pheasants, peacocks,
ducks, geese, skunks, raccoons and other animals.

As for picnicking, I would suggest any park. There
are fire places, tables and other facilities for picnicking.

. All of this means an enjoyable inexpensive vacation
for me and all of the Ft. Wayne boys and girls this
summer and every summer.

Catherine Wright, Grade 7A

Second in City

The spirited cries of children in a nearby park as—
sure you that there is no better place to spend your
free time. The City Park Board has done much to make
our parks a place of enjoyment for everyone.

The many parks have been situated carefully, so
that nearly everyone may live within a very reason-
able distance of one.

All types of persons are sure to find satisfaction in
one of the numerous activities a park provides. A
nature fan would take joy in viewing the many care-
fully tended trees and flowers. In many cases a lake

AUGUST 1949

also adds beautifully to the atmosphere.

For the rough and ready tomboys the parks pro-
vide numerous sports, such as baseball, softball, ten-
nis, and in some cases swimming, which proves very
refreshing on a hot, sultry day.

The more constructive people, interested in hand-
crafts, find willing help from the cheerful supervisors
in making many useful articles.

The Park Board deserves much credit for its efforts
put into the Fort Wayne parks, wonderful places for
the development of health, strength, and the ability to
associate easily with others.

Lois Rodenbeck, Grade 8

Third in City

An invitation—Would you like to come along with
us today? We are going to the park to have a grand
time. Mother has packed a delicious lunch and we are
going to roast hot dogs and marshmallows in the fire-
place. My dad just loves to come along because he
can sit back on the beautiful grass and forget all his
troubles and cares while the delightful cool breezes
pass over him. We children like sports—msoftball, base-.
ball, basketball, swimming.

The parks have the most beautiful scenery. There
are a variety of fiowers and shrubbery which make
the parks look gay with their bright colors. Whole
beds of these dainty tinted flowers are skillfully and
artistically laid out.

Mother says the parks keep us out of mischief and
help us pass the time when there is nothing to do.
There is space for me to wander as far as my legs can
go and then, nice painted benches for me to rest till I
get my breath again.

It takes a lot of work to get these parks into such
admirable condition and to keep them just so, reflect-
ing the grandeur and immensity of God.

How about it? Won’t you come along with us now?
We’ll have a swell time and mother will bring the
best lunch you ever ate. That’s it! Bring the family,
too. There’s plenty of room and lots to eat. I knew
you’d say yes.

Constance Judis, Grade 7

243

 

SKETCH th OUT-’tF-DOORS is fun. It is a good way
to get ideas for pictures. It teaches us to ob-
serve things we look at every day but do not really
see. \‘l'e draw stronger pictures of places and peo-
ple we know than of unfamiliar scenes from far
away places or from long ago. Ideas from outdoor
sketches or from things we have done are good sub-
jects for colored chalk drawings.

Chalk dust can be avoided if the paper surface is
thoroughly wet with a cloth, sponge or the hand. If
it dries as you work, add water to the unfinished
areas. The wet paper makes it easy to have broad,
strong chalk lines and masses. Use the chalk much

Chalk on Wet Paper

Sigrid Rasmussen

Art and crafts projects can

like paint, almost brushing on the rich color. It is
interesting to show the paper surface in some ex-
periments. A pad of wet newspaper under the
drawing will keep the surface moist for a longer
period, whereas a dry newSpaper under the drawing
will absorb excess moisture and chalk, and facili-
rate the cleaning—up process.

A wide variety of papers can be tried. The tex-
ture of manila or bogus drawing paper helps to
hold the chalk. These and other drawing papers
vary in their surfaces, so look for the right side.

Experiment on colored papers and with both soft
and dustless colored chalks. When the picture has
been completed, place it on a sheet of newspaper so
that it will dry fiat. ,

 

Author it art conrultant, Birmey S mitb 6' C 0., N. Y. C.

 

RECREATION

Newsprint in Action

Ruth Hopkins

grow into personal hobbies

FTER FOLLOWING THE printed instructions for
making these animals (one thick, shorter roll
of newspaper, tied firmly, for the body; other long,
thinner rolls tied and bent over the body for legs,
or tied along the body and extended into neck and
head), Bennie provides himself with a pan of paste,
and newspaper torn into strips. Paste is bought in
powder form, the kind sold by hardware stores for
wallpapering, or may easily be made by cooking
flour and water.

The neWSpaper scraps, preferably torn rather
than cut, for more easily blended edges, are sub-
merged in the thin soupy paste and soften up
quickly. By now the potential animal will stand,
and is balanced on corrugated board for easy han-

Autbor teas/oer art and craft: in LaGnmge .rcboolr.

 

AUGUST 1949

dling. It will be well to place it in the sun between
work times. Bennie picks up handfuls of the soggy
paste—and-scrap masses and plants them where they
seem needed to give realistic thigh, shoulder and
neck contours. Every now and then, he crisscrosses
strips about the masses to hold things together.
He squeezes the figure, too, to give shape, and to
get rid of extra moisture and paste.

Possibly because of the squeezing, or perhaps
directed by Bernie’s subconscious, the creature now
begins to take on definite characteristics. Ears, or
a lower jaw and tongue, or jutting frontals for eye
sockets are added by use of several layers of paper
shaped and placed. Marbles, large-headed pins or
painted paper balls are used for eyes. I

Before painting, the whole is smoothed with a
final layer of carefully crisscrossed small pieces.
This, well done, gives a pleasing leathery texture
to the finished product. A thick coat of poster paint
may be put on evenly before the animal is dry.
After thorough drying of the paint, Bennie glues
on a string tail or mane, a wool goatee, or any touch

which seems called for, and finishes with a coat of
clear shellac.

 

Above, a few newspapers in
Bonnie’s hands—then any-
thing from dog to donkey.
Left, among things made by
fifth and sixth graders are
alligators, long-necked birds.

Articles on these two pages
reprinted from School Arts.

245

ccDEAR SIR :”

Tennessee Answers Questions on Community Recreation

Dear Sir:

I have been appointed chairman of a committee
in our town of 6,000 people to see what can be
done about public recreation. Last year, one of our
civic clubs sponsored a playground program which
was very popular with our young people. This
smmner the club will be unable to carry on this
project for us, and we are concerned with the
problem of continuing it. We feel that perhaps
our city government should do something about
the matter, but there are many questions that pre-
sent themselves. lV e have been referred to you
for assistance.

How can we start a permanent recreation pro-
gram in our town—one that 'will continue year
after year? Do cities in Tennessee have authority
to establish a recreation program and spend tax
money to support it? How many playgrounds
should we have in a town our size? Could you tell
us what other cities our size are doing? We don’t
have any space for recreation except on our school
grounds; can we use them this summer? How
much money do we need? How many hours a
day should our playgrounds be open? Do you
think we need professional leadership?

If possible, we would appreciate having you
meet with our committee to help us get started.
If you cannot come or send a representative, kindly
advise us where we may receive such help.

Yours very truly,
JOHN A. BROWN, Chairman,
Recreation Committee

HIS LETTER IS a composite of many such re-
Tquests that are being received almost daily
by the various members of the Tennessee Inter-
Departmental Committee on Recreation. Recrea-
tion as a small community function is experienc-
ing severe growing pains in Tennessee. To alle-
viate some of these growing pains, and attempt to
answer a few of the perennial recreation problems

246

of small communities, the Tennessee Inter-Depart-
mental Committee on Recreation recently has con-
ducted a series of nine district recreation con-
ferences.*

These one-day meetings for public officials, civic
leaders and school people were directed in key
locations throughout the state. Two hundred
thirty-seven official delegates, representing fifty-
six cities and seven counties, joined with state,
TVA and private recreation specialists in discuss-
ing ways and means of developing and improving
local recreation programs. The sessions were con-
ducted in an informal atmosphere in which all
participants were afforded an opportunity to
exchange experiences and raise questions. Six
different agencies, including the Tennessee Valley
Authority, National Recreation Association, Uni-
versity of Tennessee, State Flaming Commission,
Department of Education and the Division of State
Parks, cooperated with local officials in sponsoring
these meetings.

The conferences were designed to be double-
barrelled attempts to meet pressing problems pre-
sented by individual delegates. The agenda, as
prepared in advance, was neither long nor de-
tailed. Four main topics were determined, namely:
(1) Recreation as a municipal function; (2) the
essential factors in developing a community recrea-
tion program; (3) the legal aspects of municipal
recreation; and (4) the organization and adminis-
tration of a municipal recreation program.

Time was allotted for individual consultations,
and effective use was made of two movies distrib-
uted by the Athletic Institute: “Leaders for
Leisure" and “Playtown, USA.” But the meat of
the meetings was in the give and take of discussion
freely entered into by all participants.

The mayor of a community of 5,000 population
introduced the eternal problem of finance in this
fashion at one meeting: “I am sold on recrea-

 

‘ y of program can be obtained from: Tennessee Division of State
Parks, 503 State 0mm Building, Nashville 3. Tennessee.

RECREATION

B. R. Allison

tion—or at least I think I am—but where is the
money coming from? The streets in my town are
in deplorable condition, we need a new sewage
disposal plant and our water system will soon be
inadequate. Why, I get more complaints on rough
streets every week than I get on recreation in a
year! After these requests are answered, there
will be no money left for recreation.”

A public official from an adjoining town replied:
“It has been my observation that people get those
things that they most desire. My town also needs
additional improvements, and yet we have a rec—
reation program too. Public recreation costs tax
dollars—that we must face—but the end result is
worth many times the cost.” '

The framework of the meetings gave free play
to the friendly competitive Spirit which exists be-
tween cities in the same district. Thus a small
city with a good community recreation program
served as a pattern—a stepping-off place-—in the
discussions. Wherever possible, the conferences
were scheduled in cities with a population of ap-
proximately 20,000 which have good programs.

Time and time again, emphasis was placed upon
the desirability of wide community support of
recreation programs. Delegates frequently related
experiences with summer playground activities,
under individual or club sponsorship, which died
a second year when interests changed. A funda-
mental truth of recreation was discovered in nearly
every conference: that recreation has within it
some of the seeds of human betterment, but that
it is not a panacea; it is a companion effort with
those for the home, church, school and others.
Recreation is a preventative and a part of the
treatment for adolescent waywardness, but it is
not the whole cure.

“We have limited resources in our town. We
haven’t much money and there are few park and
playground sites, but we desperately need a well-

 

Mr. Allison :75 Director of the Divirz'on of State Pariah

AUGUST 1949

rounded program for our people. Where shall we
start?” asked a much—harried city manager.

“Start at the beginning and only be satisfied
with a high quality product,” came a ready re-
sponse from a civic leader who operated a dry
goods house. The “beginning” was further defined
as a legally constituted board or commission estab-
lished by a cityor county government under the
terms of permissive legislation which exists in
Tennessee. (Public Acts 1937, Chapter 307)*
“High quality product” was determined as the
most inclusive program possible commensurate
with available finance, leadership and facilities. It
was agreed, in most discussions, that a single
playground well—designed, properly planned and
adequately supervised—if that is all a community
could afford—was better than a larger program
poorly administered.

“What activities are included in a good pro-
gram ?” asked a clubwoman from a city of 12,000.
“Our athletic coach directed our playground pro-
gram last summer and I wasn’t satisfied with what
my little girl got out of it.”

This launched a spirited discussion. It was con—
cluded that recreation means many things to
different people. If we are to expect wide public
support, a community program must be appealing
to divergent tastes. Administrative problems
which were considered included the working hours
of leaders, operating hours ofplaygrounds,salaries,
program content, age groupings, reports and rec-
ords, and the place of the city recreation commis-
sion in the total program.

“Survey your community carefully. Inventory
all resources as churches, school grounds, vacant
lots, volunteer leadership, public buildings and aids
from higher public levels; query the man on the
street for his needs and desires. Use what you
have where you have it,” was again and again
reiterated by the various state, federal and private
consultants who steered every meeting.

Most of the 237 participants discovered that
their problems were not unique, but were common
to most small cities. In this realization, there was
strength and renewed vigor. Many delegates first
became aware that in Tennessee much assistance
in the nature of counsel and planning can be ob-
tained by cities and counties through the coopera—
tion of many agencies. The Tennessee Valley
Authority makes available a recreation technician
and some additional planning to those communities
which are directly or indirectly influenced by the
Authority’s developments; the Tennessee Division

 

‘Copies can be secured from: Tennessee Division of State Parks,
Nashville 3. Tennessee.

n

247

of State Parks has a staff recreation planner well-
versed in the promotion and organization of com-
munity programs, and the Division offers some site
planning aid. The Tennessee Planning Commis-
sion undertakes, upon request, to facilitate the
coordination of community recreation with the total
planning for the growth of cities. The Department
of Education stimulates school recreation programs
and provides a necessary liaison between people
in the education lield and community recreation.

The State Health Department contributes help on
recreation matters pertaining to public health; the
University of Tennessee and the Extension Serv-
ice approach the rural problems. Other agencies
make indirect contributions. The National Recrea-
tion Association plays a leading role in the further-
ance of public recreation, both on the state and
local levels. Close understandings exist between
these agencies.

Through the Tennessee Inter-Departmental
Committee on Recreation, which was established as
recently as January, 1948, these diverse agencies
coordinated their efforts in the field of public recre-
ation. The committee serves as an information ex-
change and as a funnel, so to speak, through which
its member agencies may join forces toward a more
unified and effective recreation effort. The com-
mittee is currently embarked on a state-wide sur-
vey of public recreation.

On the premise that the growth of public recrea-
tion in the small cities of Tennessee is dependent
on the increased understanding of recreation by
ofiicials and public-spirited citizens, these nine con-
ferences were conceived as 'an advance at close
range by all available resources. The problem of
answering inquiries from these public ofiicials and
others was mounting like a snowball. Personnel
and finance, both at the state and local levels, to give
this service were at a minimum. Therefore, an
effective short-cut was urgent. These conferences
were the obvious answer. Playground leaders and
representatives of semi—public agencies were not
generally invited (training institutes were held for
them during May), as the viewpoint of the confer-

248

 

ences was the promotional, organizational and ad-
ministrative aspects of strictly public or tax-sup-
ported recreation. In the brief time since the con-
clusion of the conferences—they were held in March
—it is evident that this approach has short-circuited
months, perhaps years, of individual consultations.

In order to interpret the function of government
as it relates to recreation, and to lend its organi-
zational skill, the Bureau of Public Administration,
University of Tennessee, contributed actively.
Fundamental criteria for‘the meetings were deter-
mined to be: (I) \V ere the meetings well-attended
and representative of the communities and districts?
('2) Did the persons attending participate actively
in the discussion and derive benefits from it? (3)
Did the meetings generate sufficient interest to
bring about requests for follow-up consultations and
services? On all three counts, the conferences
scored high. Many shortcomings in the organi-
zation of the meetings and in procedure have been
discovered through the medium of hindsight. Of

course, it has yet to be determined to what degree

 

the conferences stimulated the growth of public 'rec-
reation in small cities in Tennessee.

Did the conferences answer the letter that began
this article? Yes, they did answer some of Mr.
Brown’s questions. But they also uncovered some
more questions from new sources that will serve as
the basis of discussion for another year.

Errata

The statement of James E. Rogers, on page
17 5 of the July, 1949 issue of RECREATION,
“3,000 communities large and small, that con-

duct such a program,” refers to the commu-
nities conducting a recreation program of
one type or another and not necessarily a year-
round program.

RECREATION

Poor Man’s Country Club .

'HE SCENE IS a little white church in a small
T town in Lycoming County, Pennsylvania.
Men stand talking in groups on the lawn and at the
front door. Cars line both sides of the nearby high-
way, bumper to bumper. The odor of fried chicken
sweetens the air. It is the evening for the monthly
meeting of the directors of the Consolidated Sports-
men of Lycoming County.

There is a country—cooked dinner to be eaten——
and then a program of business to be attended to;
and, after that, a moving picture that will appeal to
men who love the outdoors. As the cars come to
life and the sportsmen start back to their homes,
another official oiling has been given the machinery
that operates one of the largest organizations of
sportsmen in the nation.

Five or six years ago it was just another sports-
men’s club. Its meetings were on the dull side, and
its officers were pleased when the membership
reached the thousand mark. It regarded other
sportsmen’s clubs with suspicion and spent a lot of
its time yelling loudly for the state to stock more
fish and game in Lycoming County. As a commu-
nity enterprise, it offered virtually nothing at all.

 

The stone skeet house is typical of the permanent
installations at the Sportsmen’s Memorial Grounds.

AUGUST 1949

Richard F. Williamson

In fact, its affairs were run by a little group of offi-
cers in a sort of closed society.

-But today things are different. Its program is
based on teamwork. Its officers and members are
prominently‘identified with all worthwhile commu—
nity projects. It wars on selfishness and strives to
c00perate, on a constructive basis, with the conser—
vation agencies of the Commonwealth. Its manage-
ment is in the hands of a staff of regular officers and
a board of directors of 250 members. ”

It operates a Sportsmen’s Memorial Groundsw—
the “poor man’s country club”————n0t far from the
City of \Villiamsport. It places emphatic impor-
tance on a program for teaching teen-age boys and
girls to be the good sportsmen of the years ahead.
It has a definite program to which it is dedicated on
a long-term basis ; its membership last year reached
the amazing totals of 10,000 adults and 2,000 jun-
iors. This is 12,000 members in a sportsmen’s group
in an area whose total population is less than
100,000.

In central Pennsylvania, private hunting and
fishing clubs are numerous, but in most of them the
initiation fee and annual dues are beyond the means
of the average man. The Memorial Grounds pro-
vide his country club now. William R. Waldeisen,
head of the committee which supervises the area,
puts it this way:

“When our program is completed, we aim to give
every member of the Consolidated Sportsmen the
same opportunity for recreation at the Memorial
Grounds that he would be able to enjoy in a club.
For his dues of one dollar a year, we want to pro-
vide a place where he can bring his family, when he
pleases, to enjoy the outdoors.”

It would be difficult to say which of its two pro-
grams——development of the Memorial Grounds or
expansion of the junior activities program—is the
favorite of the Consolidated Sportsmen. The jun-
ior program is the newer of the two, having been
launched in January, 1948. i

The directors of the organization chose as its

Reprinted from the Penmylmnia Angler.

249

hcad Raymond R. Rommelt, principal of a grade
school in' South VVilliamsport. They told him to
make his own plans, spend any amount of money
within reason, and strive to enroll 1,500 boys and
girls in his division.

Rommelt knows his youngsters. In every school
in Lycoming County he set up a committee of one
teacher and one boy and one girl. He operated on
a two-point basis, and tried to put across to the
youngsters these facts:

Membership in an active sportsmen’s group is
the avenue to greater enoyment of hunting, fishing,
and the ‘outdoors. Membership in such a group
gives a young person an opportunity to learn lessons
of conservation and good sportsmanship. '

He went one step farther. He assured the young
people of a voice in the affairs of the organization
and a part in the programs, too. These promises
have been kept.

In the spring the boys and girls help to stock
thousands of trout in the streams of Lycoming
County. Skilled members of the club have given
groups of them instructions in the safe handling of
firearms. Last year a field day for young people
was held, with a program of outdoor sports that
attracted a big crowd. Adults stood on the side-
lines, as this was strictly a teen-age affair. Other
such programs are planned.

The Memorial Grounds along Loyalsock Creek, a
short distance from Williamsport, cover 230 acres

of fields and woods and include one plot of sixteen.

acres on the bank of the creek. This plot is a special
pro ject—a mammoth swimming beach and picnic
ground. A shallow section of the creek is reserved
as a wading and swimming pool for children. There
are picnic tables and outdoor fireplaces, and a big
shelter to be used in the event of a summer shower.
Driving of cars in the area is forbidden.

. The property value of the entire Memorial
Grounds is about $30,000. It includes every possible
facility for outdoor sports, including trap, skeet and
rifle ranges, quoit courts, baseballdiamonds, archery
ranges—and shaded spots where folks can sit and
enjoy being outdoors. Trails for hikers and camera
fans are being laid out in the woods on one side of
the area.

Skeet houses are built of mountain stone, and the
traps are electrically operated. There are comfort
stations on the grounds, and also a dispensary for
use in event of emergencies. An auxiliary, portable
lighting system has been installed, and a supply of
safe drinking water assured. A sylvan chapel will
be constructed, as well as a pond for fishing in sum-
mer and skating in winter. There are pens where
quail. and pheasants are reared.

250

Nothing better demonstrates the cooperative
spirit of the organization than does the memorial
area, which is a memorial to those members of the
Consolidated Sportsmen who gave their lives in the
second World War. Groups of members have be-
come active sponsors for various projects for en-
larging and improving the area. Business and in-
dustry have contributed in the form of buildings,
supplies, and equipment. Installations are on a per-
manent basis, designed to endure for years and to
contribute to the beauty of the grounds.

The sportsmen have a definite program, as well
as a large membership and a fine recreation center.
It is based on four principal points:

I. Improvement of relations between farmers and
land owners and the sportsmen who hunt and fish.

2. Cooperation in every move to end pollution of
the west branch of the Susquehanna River, which
fiows through VVilliamsport.

3. Greater participation in the work of the Penn—'
sylvania Federation of Sportsmen’s Clubs.

4. Development of the Memorial Grounds and
also of the program to interest young people in the
outdoors.

There are three important events on the calendar
of the organization each year. One of these is the
annual election of officers, in January. The second
is the annual picnic and, with so large a member-
ship, it is necessary to make this outing a two-day
affair. The third is the annual spring meeting, just
prior to the opening of the trout fishing season.

For years the Consolidated Sportsmen did as
most other groups do. They held a banquet with a
program of entertainment; but only 500 to 600
members were able to attend because of the lack of
space in any available banquet hall. So this was
abandoned. Instead, the Lycoming County group
now rents the largest theatre in \Villiamsport and
has a program there, with an attendance of 1,200
to 1,400 men and women.

The 2 50 directors and the officers of the organi-
zation meet monthly—in small communities
throughout the county—but any member of the
Consolidated Sportsmen may attend if he wishes.
Because not everyone can go to these meetings, the
organization publishes a quarterly bulletin which
is distributed free to all members. It contains news
of the organization and its members.

Besides the regular staff of officers, there is also a
staff of regional vice-presidents covering the county,
and members of the board of directors are chosen
from each community, large or small, in the county.
More than a score of committees direct and plan
the varied activities of the organization.

RECREATION

Michigan
Lighted Field
Survey—1948

Bernard Ballantine

ITH MANY COMMUNITIES having lighted
fields for athletic facilities, and many others
contemplating the construction of them in the near
future, this survey was undertaken primarily to
learn what fees and charges are made so that recre—
ation bOards, school districts or recreation depart-
ments might obtain a general picture as to prevail-
ing policies and thus be guided, to some extent, in
determining their own.

From results of a questionnaire sent to Michigan
Recreation Association afiiliates, it is impossible to
offer any type of a standardized rental policy, either
for lighted fields or for concessions at these fields.
Among other factors, apparently this is because
budgets are varied, and also because some recrea—
tion departments work jointly with school districts
in operating their lighted fields. However, some
generalities can be presented which might be help-
ful to those seeking to establish a policy, or to alter
the one now in effect.

In most cases where the communities owned the
lighted field, the policy of operating it was de-
termined exclusively by the recreation department
or its board or commission. Where the school dis-
trict owned the field, the policy -was determined by
the school board in fifty per cent of the cases. The
remaining fifty per cent followed a policy of joint
administration, with the recreation departments
providing the softball terms and the school district
taking care of the football arrangements, in most
instances.

There is a wide variance in rental fees among
Michigan communities, particularly for football,
ranging from free rental and no charges to $200 for
a single night game. Softball rental also showed a
marked variance, ranging from free rental to $75
per night. The survey disclosed that several com—

 

Mr. Ballamine 1': Director of Recreation in Rorem'lle.

AUGUST 1949

munities maintained a policy of renting cheapest to
high school teams, with a higher rate for local teams,
and a still higher rate for outside organizations——
those not considered a part of the community.

Where a rental fee was charged, communities
levying a fee of $100, or $100 plus incidentals, for
football, were largest in number. A few had fees
of $50 or less but, in some cases, where full-time
maintenance was provided, it’was found that the
fee was too low and, in most cases, it was indicated
that a change would be made.

The majority of cities levying a fee for softball
rental were within the $15 to $25 category, some
having established a flat fee plus an additional
charge for lights and janitorial service. In most
cases, the lights figured between $3.50 and $5.00 an
hour, depending on the number of units in service.

In the maintenance of fields, most communities
provided general upkeep throughout the year, at
a cost ranging from $200 to $9,000 annually. Here
again there is a wide variance in costs but, from
estimated sums reported in the questionnaire, it can

~ be stated that the average annual maintenance cost

would amount to not less than $2,500. .

Taking into account the salary of a full-time
maintenance man, certain machinery and materials,
the average cost for a single lighted field used for
football, softball and other activities, would be, per-
haps, in the neighborhood of $3,000 to $3,500.

The survey disclosed that maintenance costs are
split up several ways. Six departments of recrea-
tion reported that they pay the full maintenance
costs, while five others shared the cost with school
districts. Five reported that the cost is borne by
the school district; four said that the city pays for
maintenance; two reported that the school and city
share the cost ; two reported maintenance provided
from fees; one reported that the county provides
full maintenance.

Most departments of recreation administer their
own policy in regard to the operation of concessions.
The majority of them let concessions out on a bid
or percentage basis. The percentage ranged from
two per cent on gross sales to fifty per cent on net
sales, but the majority had a percentage ranging
from fifteen to twenty-five per cent on gross sales.
Some allowed high school athletic associations or
softball associations to operate concessions and take
all the proceeds. Still others operated softball con-
cessions only, while high schools operated the con-
cessions during the football game.

A Summary of Communities Reporting on

Lighted Field Rental Setup

ALBION—Community owns field. About $10 rental

251

on softball. Field maintained from proceeds. High
school uses college field at $60 per game, but it will
be increased in 1949.

ANN ARBOR—School district owns field. Ten dol-
lars plus light cost—rental to other schools. Flat
rental fee of $125 to all others. Maintenance costs—
salary of worker plus $1,000.

BATTLE CREEK—Community owns field. No fees
being charged, but this is on experimental basis.
l’laintenance costs between $2,500 and $3,000 an-
nually.

BAY CITY-COUNTY—Community owns field. No
charges for rental. Maintenance costs $1,000 an-
nually.

CENTER LINE—Community owns field. Forty-five
dollars football rental, including use of concession,
to school. Fee charged for all activities sponsored
by recreation department.

DEitRBORN—Community owns seven lighted fields.
No charges for rental. City crews provide main-
tenance. No estimate on costs.
ECORSE—Conimunity owns and maintains two
lighted softball fields; school district has lighted
gridiron. No rental charged. Maintenance on all
fields $3,000 annually.

FERNDALE—School district owns field and adminis-
ters policy. Charges $15 for three hours, plus $4.00
per hour for lights. Maintenance costs approxi-
mately $2,900 including $1,857 for salary.
FLINT—Community owns three fields, school dis-
trict owns three. One hundred dollar rental plus
lights for football ; $2 5 plus lights for softball. Main-
tenance man’s salary $2,300. City provides main-
tenance on own fields, schools on theirs.

GRAND RAPIDS—community owns one field, school
district two, and one is privately owned. One hun-
dred dollars plus cost of lights and incidentals
charged for football and field days. Not rented for
softball. Maintenance costs placed at $9,000 each
field, including $4,000 wages and $5,000 materials.
HAMTRAMCK—School district owns field. One
hundred dollars rental fee plus janitorial expenses.
Maintenance cost (janitor’s salary) approximately
$3,000 annually.

HIGHLAND PARK—School district owns field. Foot-
ball fees: $50 plus costs and ten per cent over $300
for high school team; $75 plus .costs and ten per
cent over $300 for local organization; $100 plus
costs and ten per cent over $300 for outsiders. Soft-
ball fees: $20 plus costs and ten per cent over $50
for high school; $35 plus costs and ten per cent over
$50 for local teams; $75 plus costs and ten per cent
over S 50 for outsiders.

KALAMAZOO—NO lighted field.

252

LANSING—Community owns four fields, softball
only. None rented.

LUDINGTON—School district owns field. Eight dol-
lars charged for softball rental. Maintenance costs
$300, but admittedly too low and will be changed.

MELVINDALE—School district owns field. Two
hundred dollars rental with lights and showers for
night game; $125 for day game. Maintenance pro—
vided from fees.

MIDLAND—Community owns two fields. No rental
charged, no admission fees.

MONROE—Community owns one field, school dis-
trict one. Sixty dollars to $70 football rental night
games; $5.00 to $10 day games. Softball rental

$3.25 per hour.

MOUNT CLEMENS—Community owns field. Fifty
dollar rental for high school football; $75 for semi-
professional. Admittedly too low for proper main-
tenance. Maintenance costs approximately $2,000

for football and softball fields.

MUSKEGON—Community owns three lighted soft-
ball fields and one baseball park. iMaintenance costs
$4,000 annually for baseball park and $300 for each
softball field. Registration fee of $40 for Class B
softball and $50 for Class A softball.

PLYMOUTH—School district owns field. School
takes seventy-five per cent of gate receipts and op-
erates concession when used by non-school groups.
Maintenance and inlprovements $4,000 annually.
PONTIAC—Community owns softball field. Fifty
dollars rental with lights and $25 without lights
when there is an admission charge. Twenty-five
with lights and $15 without lights when there is no
admission charge. Maintenance $800 annually.
PORT HURON—Community owns lighted softball
field and school district owns Memorial Park, used
for both football and softball. School charges $2 5
for softball and $50 for football plus percentage
(undisclosed) of gate receipts. No rental charge
for softball field. Softball maintenance costs $1,000
annually.

ROYAL 0A K—Community owns field. One hundred
dollars rental to local teams, $200 for outsiders.
Maintenance costs $2,000 annually.
TRENTON—School district owns field. Apparently
not rented.

VVYANDOTTE—Community owns softball field.
Charge for lights only. Maintenance costs $200 an-
nually.

YPSILANTI—School district owns field. No rental
charge. Recreation department Spends $700 annu-
ally for ice skating maintenance. Maintenance pro-
vided by recreation department when department
uses field.

RECREATION

Tho Sohool —
A Center of Community Living

Since public recreation, by its very nature, must
serve all people, this conception of the school
is basic to the efficiency of a recreation program.

Walter D. Cocking

HE FUNCTION OF the school in any community
Tis to make the community better. It can have no
greater purpose. If the schools of the country are
to accept the improvement of life in their commu—
nities as their goal, and are to proceed to do some-
thing substantially worthwhile about it, a vast ma—
jority will need to reorganize their programs, re-
orient their personnel, reshape the thinking of the
pe0p1e as to the school’s function, and formulate
a much more realistic procedure.

The improvement of pe0ple’s attitudes toward
one another; toward the communities in which they
live; toward the conservation and improvement'of
soil and trees and irrigation and water and sani—
tation and vegetation; toward government at all
levels; toward health and healthy conditions; to-
ward the man—made institutions of the community—
these are the things which must be deveIOped if com—
munities are to progress. '

Whom Should the School Serve?

It is no longer correct to say that the school should
serve only children of certain ages. If the school,
as an agency of society, is to justify itself for the
period ahead of us, it must be accepted that its fun-
damental function is to serve the pe0ple of the en-
tire community—the very young children, the chil-
dren of middle years, early adolescent youth, older
youth, and the adults as well. It must find a way to
serve individuals, the family group, and the entire
community. Then and only then, can it be said that
the school is serving the entire community, and
hence achieving its function.

A community, in addition to its schools, has other
agencies which have distinct programs to perform
and tasks to achieve. Schools have relationships
to these other agencies and they to the schools. Em—
phasis should be placed (I) on recognition of neces-
Sary relationships between the schools and the other
agencies ; and (2) on establishing practical working

AUGUST 1949

agreements and‘understandings between the schools
and these other agencies. Each should aid and sup-
plement the other.

The school plant is a piece of equipment. Its sole
purpose is to facilitate the carrying out of the edu—
cational program. If such an educational program,
as proposed in this discussion,'is to be developed by
a community, how will it effect the school plant and
what must be done in order to make the plant of
greater use in carrying out the program? Here we
shall outline. only a few of the possible adaptations
and developments which must be made:

I. Special plant facilities must be provided for
very young children (those from eighteen months
to five years of age). Also, there must be special
facilities for the parents of these children so that“
the closest associations between school and home
are available. These plants should be small in size
and located within walking distance of all who will
use them.

2. School plants must have special rooms and
facilities for use of adults.

3. In many communities, additional plant facili-
ties must be provided for older youth and adults.

4. School sites will need to be larger and pro-
vide for a greatly increased number of activities.

5. Much more space must be provided for out—of-
door education and recreation facilities. I

6. All the school plants must be made much more
adaptable and expansible. We cannot build a new
plant every time the program changes.

7. If the plant is really to serve the needs of the
educational program, a great number of different
peOple must take part in its planning. Representa-
tives of the peOple of the community, the profes-
sional staff of the school, as well as architects and
engineers, have a vital part to play in planning
proper school-plant facilities.

Excerpts frcm an address before the Connecticut Conference on Plan-

ning School Buildings; reprinted from "The American City,",Decem-
ber 1948. .

253

)4me/cc'ca '0,

OWaa

N THE HILLS and valleys of Southern California
I there linger memories of a romantic past. You
still find wrecks of Indian villages, evidence of an
outraged race. Against the greatness and beauty
of that country, many a dark face stands as a re-
minder—a silent, hopeless protest against the dep-
redations of the white man.

It was this picture that first inspired the people
of Hemet and San Jacinto to give the Ramona
pageant, to preserve in a unique manner the history
of the country. \V hen, some years ago, it was sug-
gested that an outdoor play with local background
be produced, the Ramona story came to mind.

On the docket of the San Jacinto Township
Court is an entry dated March 24, 1883, which
reads: “Personally appeared before me, Samuel
Temple, and makes the following statement (name—
ly) that he has this day committed justifiable homi-
cide upon an Indian supposed to be one Juan Diego
(Alessandro) . . .” Another entry, dated seven
days later, concludes: “Defendant’s counsel makes
motion that the defendant be discharged on the
ground of justifiable homicide as no one has ap-
peared to prosecute. Motion granted and the pris-
oner is discharged as it appears that no offense un—
der the law has been committed.”

Only a few months after the killing of Juan Diego,
Helen Hunt Jackson came to California as an emis-
sary of the United States government, to investi-
gate conditions among the Indians, which were be-
coming deplorable. These terse words of documen-
tary evidence were to fire her imagination.

One day, as a guest of Mr. and Mrs.  C. Jordan
in old San Jacinto, she said to her hostess: "If only
I could present this condition of the Indians in some
way that the public would heed. If only I could
write such a story as Mrs. Stowe wrote of Negro
slavery!” Mrs. Jordan replied that she thought
she knew of just such a story. As Mrs. Jackson
listened eagerly, she then recounted the history of

254

Dr. Philip L. Seman

Juan Diego (Alessandro) and Ramona, man and
wife, to whom the act of Sam Temple (Jim Farrar)
had brought ultimate tragedy. The elements of this
tale became the immortal novel, “Ramona.”

It was in the valley that Ramona died in May,
1924. and her grave may be seen at the Cahuilla
Indian Reservation near that of Juan Diego. \Vhat-
ever the facts behind the killing of the man known
as Alessandro, the incident itself was symbolic of
real and great wrongs done to a whole people.
Helen Hunt Jackson lifted that symbol to the full
view of the world, making a contribution to litera-
ture and to humanity.

The group of men and women planning the ini—
tial performance of “Ramona” little dreamed that
it one day would become recognized as California's

Dr. Samar; i: honorary chairman, Chicago Recreation
Commiuion; anociate editor, Youth Leaders Drgest.

 

A replica of the old ranch house in the story. The
tragedy of Ramona symbolizes the tragedy of her race.

RECREATION

greatest outdoor drama and finally be produced in
an amphitheater seating more than seven thousand
people. The immediately important task was to
dramatize the story and present it with such rare
beauty and infinite attention to detail as to lift it
above what is usually expected in the field of
pageantry. This was accomplished with the aid of
the late Garnet Holme, then one‘of the greatest au-
thorities on outdoor drama on this continent, and
success was immediate.

Since 1922, except for the years of World War
II, the play has been given annually, and its twenty-
fifth anniversary is now being celebrated. Last
year the attendance was 37,689 and a total of over
300,000 people have seen the pageant. The perma-
nent stage set in the amphitheater is a replica of
the Camulino ranch house of the Ramona story. In
keeping with the landscaping plan, an ornamental
gateway was built and winding rock stairs were
constructed to the unreserved seats just below the
rim of the bowl, and to a knoll from which the en-
tire valley may be seen in one sweeping view.

The reader will recall Bavaria, situated among
the foothills of Kofel Mountains—a range of the
Alps in the Ammer Valley southwest of Munich—
and the world-famous open-air Passion Play
enacted there. For generations all of the actors
have been residents of Oberammergau. The Ra-
mona pageant likewise is given out-of—doors, in the
bowl situated between San Jacinto and Hemet. One
of the pageant’s greatest assets is this natural amphi-
theater in which the performance is presented each
springtime. The bowl is hewn out of the rugged
mountains by nature herself. The perenially snow-
clad Mount San Jacinto forms a perfect background
for the stage, whose mighty proscenium is formed
by towering hills. Those who sit on the topmost
rim of the bowl can hear distinctly the faintest
whisper on the stage far below.

Like the Passion Play, the Ramona pageant has
gripped the imagination and enlisted the talents
of many of the leading citizens of the valley where
it is produced. About 350 people are needed in the
cast, and all but one—Alessandro—are residents of
the twin towns of San Jacinto and Hemet. Many
of the roles have been created and sustained by
the same individuals from the beginning, while the
directing staff has remained virtually unchanged.
Those taking part in the pageant include business
men, local attorneys, a chiropractor, the owner of
a local motion picture theater, teachers, ranchers,
students, a butcher boy, grocery clerks, farmers.
The success of the activity is attributed to the coop-
eration and wholehearted support of these enthusi-
astic valley people.

AUGUST 1949

The play, in two acts and seven episodes, is a
stirring one and closes with an epilogue which in—
dicates that sorrow has come upon the Moreno
Rancho. Felipe and Ramona, with the entire house-
hold, depart for Mexico, where they are to be mar-
ried. The Indians wave a last goodby from the sur- .
rounding hilltops, while old Juan Canito,’ with a
sad heart, locks for all time the great doors of the
old ranch house.

“For the last time, ring out the old ranch bells.
Mourn now, ye vales and splendid snowcapped hills.
Y our old time friends go forth. Mark their fare—
well. And Anglo Saxon comes. . . . The future
lies with God. Ring out the old ranch bell. The
Spanish folk depart. Close up the doors.”

 

No more are theirs the valleys and uplifted hills.
Over the land, memories of a romantic past linger on.

255

7004“ at 3754!}:  '
\

Camp for Blind Children -- Recreation for
blind children is the prime concern of a recently
organized San Francisco project. It features a spe-
cial vacation resort in the Santa Cruz Mountains,
some sixty miles south of San Francisco, where the
city’s visually handicapped youngsters can develop
self—reliance as well as find fun and relaxation in
such normal activities as swimming, hiking, horse—
back riding, baseball, crafts, square dancing, singing,
parties and the like. This vacationland is open for
ten weeks every year, and is under the supervision
of capable directors, sports leaders, a doctor, a nurse
and other qualified persons.

The camp is a project of the Recreation for the
Blind, Incorporated, a San Francisco organization,
and was conceived and planned by a few local wom—
en, with the cooperation of city ofhcials on the Board
of Education and Board of Supervisors. It is largely
supported by contributions from public—spirited
San Franciscans and groups primarily interested in
handicapped youngsters.

é

New Summer Policy—This summer, for the
first time, )lilwaukee’s Golden Agers have been
able to look forward to community singing, ball—
roon1 dancing, spelling bees and playing games. In
the past, the nine clubs, under the city recreation
department, have met only from October to May,
but this year, the department decided to continue
the weekly meetings of Milwaukeeans sixty years
of age and over. The recreation department pays
for the staff and meeting rooms necessary for these
gatherings, while the members chip in for the re—
freshments or finance some affairs completely.

256

/

I

Turn About—Usually, departments of rec-
reation plan programs for servicemen stationed in
their communities, but inJacksonville, Florida, the
situation was somewhat reversed when the service—
men there decided to entertain the city’s youngsters.
Each Saturday morning, during the Spring months,
the Navy sent eight large busses to the playgrounds
to take a group of boys to the Jax-Vavy Boys’ Base-
ball Training Camp. There over 400 enthusiastic
young baseball fans were taught the fundamentals
of the game, met top league stars, and received auto—
graphed baseballs donated by major teams.

Just whether conditions will make it possible for
the camp to be held again next year, as is planned,
no one knows, but there’s no question that this in—
augural session was tremendously successful.

,4;

Say It With Music—Racine, \Visconsin, con-
siders its Park Board Band one of its most im-
portant community assets. Now in its twenty-
sixth year, this organization provides the city with
pleasant entertainment through a series of free
concerts made possible by municipal appropriation.
Twenty—two concerts have been planned for this
year—the majority scheduled for various city
parks and a few as inside programs in the Memo-
rial Hall.

As evidence of a growing interest in this type
of recreation activity, the band budget has been
increased during the past six years to permit
double the numb-er of concerts, while during the
same period, the average attendance per concert
has increased three—fold.

\Vorking in close cooperation with the city ad—

RECREATION

ministration, and with the purpose of stimulating
interest in the concerts, the Racine Park Board
Band Association publishes an attractive program
for the season. Cost of this part of the project is
met by the sale of advertising Space in the program,
and this medium also provides for other expenses
of the band, including publicity.

: U.N. Parties—New Yorkers and members of
the United Nations Secretariat were brought to-
gether in a series of parties, from January 1947 to
May 1949, so that the foreign visitors could have
the opportunity to see the inside of American homes
and discuss with Americans some topics of mutual
interest. Thirty-three different events, sponsored
by the New York Adult Education Council, Incor-
porated, were attended by 516 members of the
U. N .' Secretariat and an equal number of New

Yorkers.

H‘—

’

 

Take Another Bow Dedication of Fairdale’s
community building recently served to focus even
more newspaper and public attention on the pro-
gram of the Jefferson County Recreation Board in
Louisville, Kentucky. This year-round play cen-
ter, auditorium, library, television lounge, roller
skating rink, kitchen and craft shop is a living
\Vorld \Nar II memorial and an excellent example
of community cooperation. The Recreation Board
and the citizens of Fairdale provided the money for
the center; labor and materials were donated to

build it.
Q

Curtain Timea—uA new playhouse was opened
last spring on the Stephens College campus in
Columbia, Missouri. The college acquired a “left-
over" building from the Army and converted it
into a “little theatre” with 324 seats. Seating ca-
pacity is intentionally limited. Instead of present-
ing a major production on one or two nights, the
Drama Department now: schedules seven presenta—
tions for each play, eliminating for the audience
the problem of conflicting engagements, and afford-
ing the actors the rich experience of playing re-
peatedly the roles which they have rehearsed.

Stage equipment approximates that of a typical
college or community theatre. A fly loft and rig-
ging system allows the vertical movement of scen—
ery and of the act curtain. Backstage space in-
cludes dressing rooms and storage areas for scen—
ery and lighting equipment, while still allowing for
the movement of wagon stages.

AUGUST 1949

1

¥

I

 

Unfortunately, this player missed winning the pot during th
ninth Annual Marble Tournament held in Visalia, Californi:

‘

Almost Ready for Fun—The Timken Recre-
ation Field is nearing completion on a fifty-acre
tract of land west of the Gambrinus steel mill near
Canton, Ohio. Construction of the park has been
underway for more than two years, and soon more
than I 1,000 company employees and their families
will have the use of modern sports facilities in the
Canton area. Four softball fields and two baseball
fields are ready for the players, and three addi—
tional_ softball fields may be constructed in future
months. In addition, there will also be eight black—
topped tennis courts; badminton, horseshoe and
shuffleboard courts; a casting pond with stationary
targets; a model automobile race track; rest rooms,
lockers, showers, lounges; a picnic area, and all
the conveniences for other forms of recreation.

52,—— ..

Sweet or Swing—4Friday evening dances are
very popular with the teen-agers of Carlsbad, New
York, and they willingly pay fifty cents a week
dues to participate. In fact, a free membership
policy once in existence was not half as successful
as the present system for, as the recreation direc—
tor states: “When a youngster pays fifty cents to
get in here, he is going to stay and get his money’s
worth. He won’t be running out.” As a result,
everyone has more fun; there’s far better disci-
pline; the center owns its Spinet piano, has a sound
system and a bank balance of $2,500 to be used
for a new center.

Dances are held from eight-thirty until eleven-
thirty—except on football nights, when the oppos-
ing team is invited, and the fun isn’t over until
twelve-thirty. A home town orchestra of six to
eight pieces plays almost continuously—with only
two fifteen—minute intermissions—and is much ap-
preciated by the enthusiastic boys and girls.

257

Psychology in
Teaching

Swimming

B. Robert Berg

N A REVIEW of nineteen books on the teaching of
1 swimming, it was astonishing to find that the
collective authors almost completely ignored the
importance of an understanding of psychology for
successful instruction. The good swimming teacher

must have more than just a knowledge of swimming'

and the ability to organize a class. The really suc-
cessful instructor utilizes sound principles of psy—
chology during all his meetings with the student.

Perhaps some teachers who do line jobs would
deny the consciousapplication of any principles of
psychology. I think, however, that if they were to
analyze their work, they would find that they defi-
nitely are using them, and to good advantage.

Swimming textbooks and manuals of today are
devoted almost exclusively to the techniques of
swimming and diving. “7 e learn to teach our pupils
proper form; we become accomplished in organiz-
ing large classes; we begin to lose the human touch
in our very devotion to method and skill. However,
as do the teachers of more academic subjects, we
too should try to have an understanding of the in-
dividual with whom we are working.

What Is the Student Like?

Let us presume that we are working with chil-
dren, as most beginning swimmers are youngsters.
In sizing up the group they all look pretty much
alike ; actually, they all are very different. Some are
eager and interested in learning, others are afraid

258

of the water. Some will learn quickly while others
will be slow. There will be a few “wise guys” and
a few who seem unable to mix with the rest. In
other words, we have a typical group situation,
and the careful observer will be aware of the many
things going on between the members and the lead-
er. The dynamics of group action and interaction
are always complex.

However, we too often completely overlook this
obvious fact, and attempt to treat all members alike.
The class is lined up and all are asked.to go from
one step to the next in unison. When this happens, -
they are being taught not as individuals, but as a
class, and they lose out accordingly.

The fact remains that, no matter how large the
group, each person can learn only as an individual.
In some respects, large groups provide an incen-
tive. On the other hand, they may make a small
failure or slow improvement so obvious that some
of the potential swimmers will be retarded because
of the feelings involved. The good instructor, there-
fore, thinks of the progress of the individual and
not of the group.

 

At the pool or waterfront, he should, first of all,
remember three basic rules:

I. Know the first name of each member in the
class and have them know yours.

2. Comment on the work and progress of each
individual to him alone some time during the lesson.

3. Don’t contrast the progress of one swimmer
with that of another. Rather Show the person his
improvement compared to his earlier efforts.

Reactions to Water

What do you do when a child is very afraid of
the water? All the reassurances and demonstra-
tions in the world will not resolve that fear or make
him less tense. \V e all tend to forget that emotions
are not rational things. To tell a child that he won’t
be hurt will not help him to relax. It’s not that he
does not trust you to keep him from sinking, but
that he has a more basic fear.

The person who is afraid of the water: very often

RECREATION

is afraid of many other things. Our pupils do not
come to us blank and untouched. Their previous
experiences very definitely affect the way they re-
act now. The child who explains that he is afraid
because of such and such an unfortunate experi-
ence when he was younger may not be aware that
he is not giving the whole story. We must be. It’s
not what they are afraid of, in these cases, that is
the matter—but what basically makes them afraid.

By being aware that fear at the waterfront is not
fear directed exclusively in one area, we are in a
more understanding position. We also know that
reassurances are of very little help. What, then, is
the answer? Some good techniques which have
been employed successfully in reaching a solution
are:

I. Accept fear, when it is encountered, as a very
normal thing. You even might remark that when
you were first learning you, too, were afraid.

2. Do not tease the person about his fear or use
it as a weapon to make the individual move on to a
more advanced step.

3. Let the child see that he can learn to swim in
Spite of being afraid. This dilutes the tension.

4. Progress from step to step gradually, matter-
of-factly, and with full explanation on each level.

5. Never become excited or show alarm yourself.

6. Make the instruction periods non-competitive.
The fear, sometimes, may not be of water, but of
the inability to keep up with the others. Such feel-
ings of inadequacy often retard learning.

Psychology of Learning

Most of us are well aware that children and adults
learn at different rates of speed. However, we less
often realize that our own rate of learning is-not
uniform. Psychologists who study human learning
have discovered that we all run into a “plateau” of
learning at some time. This is a technical way of
saying that, at some time in the learning process,
our upward progress is detained for a period dur-
ing which we stay at the same relative degree of
skill. '

A non-psychologist swimming instructor com—
mented on this phenomenon when he observed that,
just when pupils seemed to be learning the fastest,
they suddenly stopped learning. He said that he
learned through experience that when they reached
this stage it was best to let them just fool around,
as pressure to go on just didn’t work. After a while,
he noticed that they snapped out of it and began
learning again. He was applying sound principles
of psychology when he refused to use pressure to
make them improve during the plateau.

AUGUST 1949

Unfortunately for the instructor, too, individuals
in the group will reach the plateau of learning at
different times. To top it off, the plateau doesn’t
last any specified length of time and some learners
snap out of it later than others. All of these make
for difficulties in teaching—until you remember that
good instruction is individual, that individual in-
struction can be given in a group.

Another good teaching principle is to remember
to teach in positives rather than negatives. Once
you get on to it it’s very simple and effective. It’s
“keep your legs straight” rather than_ “don’t bend
your knees”; “you can swim as far as the raft”
rather_than “don’t swim past the raft.” As we
understand our laws of lea'rninghand apply our
psychological principles, we can become better
teachers and Help our pupils to grow in other re-
spects as well as in their skill in the water.

r€=5'\
Y.M.C.A. Aquatic Conference

Harold T. Friermood

THE SECOND NATIONAL Y.M.C.A. Aquatic Con-
ference is being held this year from August 28
to September 3 at Camp MacLean, near Burling-
ton, Wisconsin.

Nearly twelve years have passed since some I37
formally registered delegates joined for the first
conference at George Williams College. Since then,
much progress has been made with the development
of aquatic program materials, the certification of
leadership, standards for pools, administrative
agreements, and improvement in the National
Councils related to this program. It has been a
struggle all along because of competition from other
organizations, lack of paid field representatives, and
divided philosophy on the part of some Y.M.C.A.
leaders with respect to the desirability of, empha—
sizing aquatics. But these handicaps have not pre- h
vented the growth of the program nor the recogni-
tion given to the association’s certificates on both
the professional and lay levels.

The I949 conference is placing emphasis on the
over—all review of the aquatic program as it has .

operated since 1937, along with concentration on
outdoor waterfront activities — including camp

aquatics, boating and canoeing, life saving methods,
water stunts and games, and competitive swimming.

Author is on m1? of Y.M.C.A. National Cozmcil.

259

Golf Goes Industrial

An industrial-club pro expresses his views on the

development of ,the game in this field, and its future.

HE MID-TWENTIES saw golf tagged as the “rich
man’s game” and average workers in America
generally considered this sport out of their reach.
Then gradually there came into American golf—
between the private and public courses——the indus-
trial golf course. These layouts started slowly and
still are far short of the needed number. However,
there are some outstanding industrial programs
operating in golf today and giving promise of what
looms ahead. Among the industries featuring golf
are the Firestone Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio;
Sylvania Electric Company, Salem, Massachusetts;
Union Bag and Paper Company, Savannah, Geor-
gia ; United Shoe Machinery, Beverly, Massachu—
setts; DuPont course in Delaware; Plymouth
Country Club, Plymouth, North Carolina; General
Electric Company, Schenectady, New York; Her-
shey Chocolate. Corporation, Hershey, Pennsyl-
vania; I.B.M. Country Club, Endicott, New York;
and the course I serve, EnJoie Golf Club, owned
and operated by the Endicott-Johnson Corporation,
of Endicott, New York.

Players who are fortunate enough to enjoy these
programs find good golf near their work. The cost
is very low, the courses are beautifully maintained,
and a golf promotional program is recruiting more
players each season. As industrial employees devel-
op their golling skill, they realize that they are en-
joying in industrial golf what they would have to
pay a stiff price for as private club members. This
realization makes a deep impression as the program
unfolds, and golf promotion takes a real hold on
many of the workers.

The family angle is also important in the picture.
Most industrial golf activities are an integral part

260

John Budd

of a broader recreation program. This allows chil-
dren and wives to enjoy not only golf, but other
outdoor recreation—swimming pools, supervised
playgrounds and the like.

For example, Hershey has its zoo and a full pro—
gram of play activities. This jewel of a town is the
mecca for pe0ple, young and old, from all over its
immediate area. There is activity for all.

Here at Endicott-Johnson, we have well-super-
vised playgrounds, and “name” bands for dances.
Our summer holiday programs draw people by the
thousands, and the children watch for them months
ahead. On Sundays, the people of our valley gather
for band concerts in EnJoie Park. \Ve have merry-
go-rounds, swimming pools, softball and baseball
fields and a big bowling program, now sparked by
the announcement of twenty-four alleys. Our golf
is part of a well—rounded program.

The I.B.M. Country Club has twenty-seven ac-
tivities in its program——the day nursery school,
swimming pool and playground appealing to the
whole family.

Business leaders will surely come to realize the
possibilities of this type of program. Many think
that the cost is too great; many just don’t under-
stand golf. Therefore, there is a selling job to be
done; but when it is completed, industrial golf will
be en route to that future it richly merits.

Cost and types of industrial golf clubs stretch all
the way from the Attapulgas Clay Company, Atta-
pulgas, Georgia, and its small, but cozy golf course
and country club, nestled in South Georgia’s tall
pines and costing a scant amount of money, to the
big, well-rounded programs at Hershey, IBM and

Condensed from Golfdom and the Indanrial Spam Jamal.

RECREATION

General Electric, where the costs run into hundreds
of thousands.

By using company labor and local talent, the At—
tapulgas outfit and its forty members completed a
nice nine holes, with sand greens and a comfortable
clubhouse with a lake adjacent. They have good
fun at this place. I know, because I once taught
there, too.

The Firestone Rubber Company in Akron brings
big name golfers to open their golf leagues each sea-
son. More and more players are using their facil-
ities each year. "

At Hershey, Pennsylvania, workers can enjoy

two IS—hole layouts and two 9-hole courses. Even,

junior and women players are accommodated on
the short Junior Club course. Their program is a
model of what can be done. Hershey employees can
enjoy their golf for a nominal cost, and within a few
minutes of their jobs. What a blessing this is to
the tired worker on a summer afternoon.

At our own Enjoie Course in Endicott, the
workers, and local enthusiasts as well, can enjoy

one of the finest conditioned golf courses in the'

country. Eighteen holes of golf, laid out along the
valley of the beautiful Susquehanna River over roll—
ing terrain, give E. J. workers their round of golf
for twenty-five cents or an annual fee of fifteen dol-
lars. Most workers can reach the course in fifteen
to twenty minutes. Since the factories close at four
p. m. and some workers are off earlier, they have
daily opportunities for eighteen-holes of golf.

George F. Johnson, originator of Industrial De-
mocracy for Endicott-Johnson workers, had the
dream of the Enjoie course. He wanted a course
that was not too hard, not expensive, and one that
would give the most opportunity to play golf. It
flourished from the sfart and now plays 40,000
rounds each season. It is becoming increasingly
evident that more facilities will have to be provided.

Enjoie is unique because it allows players, other
than E. J. workers, to enjoy golf on its course.
Workers get first priority, then other players are
accommodated t0 the extent possible.

At nearby I.B.M. Country Club, where Eddie
Kuhn is- the professional, employees get their golf
over a beautiful rolling layout of twenty-seven holes

for thirty-five cents per day. They have been very
successful there with league play.

What does industrial golf offer the professional?
'He has to work hard, but gets a fair break all the
way because he is working for a business concern
that will probably have the same management for
many years to come. There are several means of
setting up the industrial golf contract for the pro-
fessional. Many jobs pay a good salary and give

AUGUST 1949

all concessions, Others, like the I.B.M. Country
Club, pay the'professional a good salary, but have
all concessions. The professional staff gives all
lessons without charge.

Under many of these industrial setups, the pro-
fessional enjoys retirement benefits, insurance cov-
erage and other features that rarely are available
to our profession. The I.B.M. professional staff
enjoys insurance and a retirement plan, while at
Endicott-Johnson, I am eligible for complete medi—
cal, dental, and hospital services for my family and
myself in line with the E.  medical program that
gives these benefits to all workers.

The time is not far distant when most industries
will have sound golf programs. There will be the
easy nine holes for the beginners and youngsters.
This will be the sandlot of golf.

Next up the ladder will be the tougher nines that
will develop better golf techniques, lower scoring
and more urge to go higher in the game.

Average 18-hole courses will be provided for the
great many average players, and then there will be
the championship test, such as Hershey’s famous
country club course, scene of many heated title
battles.

Industrial golf is the growing giant of the game
because it can tap uncounted millions of Americans
who are hungry for outdoor recreation and, as the
courses develop, they will give more good jobs to
more competent golf professionals. Better players
will also be developed.

So watch the industrial golf picture in the com-
ing years. YVatch as it counts its golf converts in
millions, not in thousands.

 

Before long, most industries will have sound golf
programs. Even beginners will get a chance to swing.

261

Porter Basketball

 

   

i .
NO. 237-3 BANK with
__NO. 210-3 GOAL and Net

 

FREE CATALOG GLADLY SENT. Now is the time to re-
place warn, out-dated rectangular banks with the new
all-steel afficial Porter fan~shaped bank. Farmed from
a single sheet of steel to a flawlessly smooth face with
a deep-rolled periphery, and scientifically braced for
permanent, rigid service.

PORTER CAN SUPPLY YOUR EVERY BACKSTOP AND GYM EQUIPMENT NEED

E-PORTER

Backstops are

.4 ’
. I"? v
.1 a -
"A’ v, J
.4. INT” k-
-—r ,1 #:IP 1/; ll -
‘:' " \—1§. — _- . o
\‘ : ‘ -_-_. u a
t q. . . ..‘ .
\ l I I
c I II. .
' ' I. .

PORTER NO. 212-WS window span type of backstop is an
ingenious adaptation used where building truss construction

will not permit installation of a suspended-and—braced type
of backstop.

To be completely satisfactory and safe, basket-

‘ball backstops must be planned and designed

by pe0ple with specialized engineering know-
how. Building conditions vary widely, and every
backstop installation varies “accordingly.

Porter engineers are equal to any backstop
problem, no matter how specialized. They can
draw upon a vast storehouse of knowledge
gained through several generations of serving
the nation's leading schools, universities, clubs
and stadiums.

Why don't you let Porter engineers advise and
help you, without cost or obligation, of course?
Usually, stock models from Porter’s complete line
can meet your exact requirements, and save you
money. If your building is in the drawing board
stage, it is wise to talk about backstops now, and
avoid problems and disappointments later.

IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT OF FAN-SHAPED BANKS

  

CORPORATION

OTTAWA. ILLINOIS.

MANUFACTURERS OF PlAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWlMMING POOl EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYPA>I< CL'MB'NG

 

 

262

Reg. U. s. Pot.OtT. STRUCTURE

RECREATION

 

Willard Leroy Hayes

MEMBER of the rec-

reation profession
for more than thirty
years, Willard L.
Hayes, 61 , died on June
23 in Tuskegee, Ala-
bama. He was a native
of Oregon and received
most of his formal edu-
cation in that state. He
earned his BA. degree
at Linfield College, en-
gaged in post-graduate
study at the Eugene Bible University and the Uni—
versity of Oregon and later at the University of In-
diana. His college expenses were earned by week-
_ end preaching and pastoral work in small Oregon
communities, but always he preferred serving the
community rather than the parish. While teaching
in the Oregon schools prior to World War I, he en-
joyed coaching athletics and debating teams and
took time to organize various clubs among his stu—
dents. During World War I, he served as infantry
ofhcer in the United States Army and later, under
the Morale Department of the Army, he organized
and directed the educational and recreational work
at Camp Lewis, Washington. He supervised service
clubs for the Army, at first in the State of Washing-
ton and later in Indiana.

Mr. Hayes was employed on the national staff of
Community Service, Incorporated, in 1921, later
that year becoming the executive secretary of Com-
munity Service of Clarksville, Tennessee. After
three years there, he served as executive secretary
of the City Service Club of Paris, Kentucky, and in
1925 was called to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, as superin-
tendent of recreation. Here he organized and de«
veloped the public recreation program, and re-
mained for eight years. He then spent a year in
education and recreation work under the Civilian
Conservation Corps, following which he was em-
ployed in 1934 by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
He continued as a recreation specialist on the staff
of TVA until the time of his death, with the excep-
tion of a period of about one year of military service.

Born and raised on an Oregon farm, it was nat—
ural for Willard Hayes to retain always the deepest
interest in rural people and problems. Even during
his service as a city superintendent of recreation, he
reached out to the rural areas and worked with
County Farm Bureaus, extension directors, county

 

AUGUST 1949

agents and others having the interest of rural peo-
ple at heart. In his work with TVA, his greatest
concern was with rural and small community recrea- -
tion problems ; and, at the time of his sudden and un-
timely death, he had gone to Tuskegee with a num-
ber of TVA associates to participate in a seminar
on rural life.

Over the years Willard Hayes won and held the
friendship of countless people who found, behind
his warm personality, a personal integrity beyond
reproach. A letter from his TVA chief, advising of
his death, said, “We value Willard as a friend and
co—worker whose deep sense of humanity, breadth
of experience, and fine philosophy of life have made
a contribution to the Tennessee Valley area which
will continue to grow for many years to come.”

q

 

RECREATION is not a tangible, static thing, but a
vital force infiuencing the lives of people. It is es-
sential to happiness and satisfaction in living. Rec-
reation is an attitude or spirit which finds expression
in varied forms of activity and which brings a way

of rich and joyful living to children, youth and
adults.

DIAMOND

O FF | CIAL
HORSESHOE
PITCHING

COURTS

Very strongly constructed of heavy planks.

Cast iron stake holder in center with proper
pitch to the stake; cannot work loose. Painted
with rust and rot preventative. Shipped ready
to assemble. Rules for playing, court regula-
tions and pad of score sheets included.

Write for information on Complete
Line of Pitching Shoes and Accessories

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE COMPANY
4614 ORAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINNESOTA

 

263

FIVE POLIO PRECAUTIONS LISTED FOR PARENTS

WTARNING inxr THE 1949 polio season is
aim. ‘st at its height, the National Foundation
"or Infantne Paralysis has issued a list of precau-
tionary measures to be observed by those in charge
of children during the epidemic danger period which
usually runs from May through October, reaching
its peak during the hot. mid-summer months. The
five easy-to-follow health rules for children are:

I. Avoid crowds and places where close contact
with other persons is likely.

2. Avoid over-fatigue caused by too active play
or exercise, or irregular hours.

3. Avoid swimming in polluted water. Use only
beaches or pools declared safe by health authorities.

4. Avoid sudden chilling. Remove wet shoes

and clothing at once, and keep extra blankets and-

heavier clothing handy for sudden weather changes.

5. Observe the golden rule of personal cleanli-
ness. Keep food tightly covered and safe from flies
or other insects. Garbage should be tightly covered
and, if other disposal facilities are lacking, it should

be buried or burned.

The National Foundation also lists the following
symptoms of infantile paralysis: headache, nause i.
or upset stomach, muscle soreness or stiffness. and
unexplained fever. Should polio strike in your
family, call a doctor immediately. Early diagnosis
and prompt treatment by qualified medical per-
sonnel often prevent serious crippling, the National
Foundation points out. a

The organization emphasizes the fact that fear
and anxiety should be held to a minimum. A calm,
confident attitude is conducive to health and recov-
ery. Parents, it says, should remember that of all
those stricken, lifty per cent or more recover com-
pletely while another twenty-five per cent are left
with only slight after-effects.

If polio is actually diagnosed, get in touch with
the chapter of the National Foundation for Infan-
tile Paralysis serving your community. The chap—
ter will pay that part of the cost of care and treat-
ment which the patient or family cannot meet.

CUT OUT AND KEEP FOR REFERENCE

Better team work and improved scores are possible when playing a ball that is accurate in

flight—sure in grip and well balanced.

Thirty years of experience, with constant improvement, and better-built balls, is
another "Best by Test” reason for specifying Wintark. Official in weight, shape and size—
it meets every requirement essential to TOP PERFORMANCE 'in play and in economy.

BUY THE BESTwGET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

WEAVER WINTARK SALES (O. p. offéi'ffl‘s33%“3312‘5'3535 52311333 u.

264

 

RECREATION

Emergency

Radio Program

In which the congratulations of a radio
program director to a local recreation
department show a fine example of co-

operation and worthy accomplishment.

Louis T. Marsh

HE ADAPTABILITY AND readiness to accept un-
Tusual conditions, while still carrying on the
necessary work of keeping children. well-occupied,
were ably demonstrated by the staff of the Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, Recreation Department
during the 1948 poliomyelitis quarantine affecting
children up to sixteen years of age in Forsyth
County. In the face of such an emergency, which
normally would stop a great percentage of the sum-
mer recreation work, a daily half—hour radio pro—
gram over WTOB brought not only entertainment,
but also many constructive playtime suggestions
and worthwhile leisure-time activities, into the
homes of practically every child affected by the seg-
regation ban in the Forsyth County area.

Miss Mildred Formyduval, playground super—
visor in VVinston-Salem, was in touch with WTOB
early in the morning the day after the ban was an-
nounced. With the help of station personnel, “Play-
ground Playtime” stepped into 'the picture the fol-
lowing day, answering in great part the question in
every parent’s mind—“What shall I do with my
child during the remainder of the summer ?” With-
out the ingenuity and seemingly tireless work upon
the part of the members of the Winston-Salem Rec-
reation Department staff, it would have been im-
possible to continue to hold the interest of this age
group of children during a seven—week period. That
the interest was held was evidenced by the great
response in the mail each day.

The program format of “Playground Playtime”
was so planned that the interest of both older and

younger children would be sustained throughout
the program.

Three staff members appeared regularly each
morning: Peggy Pruitt, who explained, and then

AUGUST 1949

 

sang, a playsong; Miss Formyduval, who opened
the day’s “suggestion box” with several things to
do in the way of games to be played at home; and
Virginia Nemer, supplying the musical background.
Outside help was recruited from the Arts and Crafts
Workshop with the director, Mrs. Chester Marsh,
presenting daily handcraft suggestions. Wesley
Snyder told a complete story each day. The stories
were edited and arranged for radio by other recrea-
tion department staff members. A daily telephone
quiz, with prizes donated by a local store, featured
questions concerning civic affairs; while a con-
tinued story, written by Elizabeth Trotman, helped
maintain interest from day to day as the listeners
followed the adventures of May and John in and
around W inston—Salem.

Weekly contests included the best photograph
of a pet taken by a child; a sampler and model plane
contest; a word contest using the slogan “Grow
Strong by Staying Home”; the best story written
by a child ; and a portfolio, made by a child, includ—
ing copies of paintings by American artists. Prizes
for each of these contests were donated by a Win—
ston—Salem merchant. Mi‘meographed copies of all
contest rules, together with daily and weekly play—
time suggestions, were made available to listeners
by the recreation department.

As program director of WTOB, I take this op-
portunity of congratulating L. B. Hathaway upon
the excellence of the work done by his department
during the emergency.

“PVhile bouquets are 'being passed around,
W TOB certainly should receive their share. With-
out the splendid guidance and cooperation of the
staff at W TOB, the program ‘Playground Play—
time’ could not have been a success.”—Mildred
Formyduoal, Recreation Department of Winston-
Salem.

(See “Let Radio Sell Your Program,” October 1948
RECREATIO N—Ed.)

PORTABLE STEEL
BLEACHERS AND
GRANDSTANDS

The safe and economical
solution for your outdoor
“and indoor seating prob-

lems. Our engineering
staff is at your service
without cost or' obliga-
tion to you.

FREE

Write for illustrated {older
and prices today.

Hussey Mfg. Co., Inc. 0 486 R. R. St. 0 N. Berwick, Maine
Also manufacturers of “Laughing Loon” Water Sport- Equipment

 

265

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Journal of Health, Physical Education and Recreation,

May 1949 o _
Training Student Leaders in Group Recreation,

Catherine L. Allen.
The Role of Sports and Games in Organized Camp-
ing. Gerald P. Burns.
Golf Instruction with Limited Facilities, Flora May
Ellis.
“How We Do It”——Two-Ball Soccer.
Youth Leaders Digest, May 1949
The Citizen Can Help—A Symposium.
American City, May 1949
Seattle’s Concrete Diving Piers, James D. Grafton.
Colorado Municipalities, May 1949
Recreation -—for the Sense of \Vorth, Chester L.
Bower.
Scholastic Coach, May 1949
A Safe and Sane Schoolboy Boxing Program, John
M. Giannoni and James Loveall.
Physical Education, May 1949
Supervision in the Organized Recreation Camp,
\Villiam H. ’Freeberg.
Park Maintenance, May 1949

Low Cost Sterilizer Used in Tacoma’s Park Pools,
A. R. M’Pherson.

Annual Reports the Public \Vill Be Eager to Read.
Beach and Pool, June 1949
Basic Principles of Design, Construction, Main—

tenance. Part II—the YMCA Pool, John \V.-

Ogg.
\Vatch Those Expansion Joints, K. T. Fezer.
The Survey, June 1949

Delinquents in Paradise, Joyce Rockwood Muench,

Parks and Recreation, June 1949

Nature Center for Mitchell \Voods at New London,
\Veaver \V. Pangburn.

Oakland Park Department Trains Its Personnel.
Nat Levy.

Mosquitoes Can Be Controlled in Recreational
Areas, Dr. Richard L. Post.

\Vhat to Include. \Villiam Frederickson, Jr. and
Rodney D. Mc Clelland.

Maintenance Mart—Checking Room.

Equipment for Swimming Pools.

Nation’s Schools, June 1949
Play-——The \Vord that Makes Milwaukee Famous
Today, Mildred Whitcomb.

Schoolhouse Planning—from High Schools in the
South.

Camping Magazine, June 1949

Security through Safety, Marion McGuire.
\Vhat About Archery at Your Camp? Myrtle K.
Miller.

Park Maintenance, June 1949
Demand Park Space in Annexation Areas. Edi-
torial by Erik L. Madisen.
Magnet for Tots—It’s a Simple Children’s Zoo,
Grier Lowry.
Catching Up in California’s State Park Program,
Edward F. Dolder. '

Highroad, July 1949
Christian Ideals for Recreation, Larry Eisenberg.
Nation’s Schools, July 1949

Camping Has a Place in the Regular Curriculum,
Truda T. \Veil.

Schoolhouse Planning—the Site, by John McFad-
zean.

Parents’ Magazine, August 1949
\Vhen They Say: \Vhat Shall \Ve Do Now?
Elizabeth Lee Schweiger.

266

 
 
 
 
 
   

Books Received

 

American Girl’s Omnibus, by Pearl and Stanley Pashko.
Greenberg Publisher, New York. $2.75.

Comet Books—Your Own Joke Book, by Gertrude
Crampton; Batter Up, by Jackson Scholz; Tawny,
by Thomas Hinkle; Star—Spangled Summer by
Janet Lambert. Pocket Books, Incorporated, New
York. $.25 each.

General Education Board Annual Report—19474948.
General Education Board, 49 West 49th Street,
New York.

Handbook of Y.M.C.A. Camp Administration, edited
by John A. Ledlie and Ralph D. Roehm. Associa-
tion Press, New York. $4.50.

Living Through the Older Years, edited by Clark Tib—
bitts. University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor,
Michigan. $2.00.

Little Golden Books—Bugs Bunny, by Warner Broth-
ers Cartoons: Guess Who Lives Here, by Louise
Woodcock; Two Little Miners, by Margaret Wise
Brown and Edith Thacher Hurd; Johnny Apple-
seed, by \Valt Disney Cartoons. Simon and Schus-
ter, New York. $.25 each.

Mother Goose Land with Judy and Jim, by Hilda Mil-
oche and Wilma Kane. Simon and Schuster, New
York. $1.00.

Organization and Administration of Physical Educa—
tion, The, by Edward F. Voltmer and Arthur A.
Esslinger. Appleton-Century-Crofts, New York.
$3.50.

Our Home Town, by Earle Lippincott. Association
Press, New York. $1.00.

  

' + First Choice
for

£very Sport!

\ Available
. \ Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

 41W Y' Wm

m: ;a~*::r [N no} hr“: 

.CT
2 -,v

—rq'

 

RECREATION

MANUFACIUIING COMPANY - SI. tOUIS 3 MO.

 

Stories—A List of Stories to Tell and
to Read Aloud

By Eulalie Steinmetz. New York Public Library,
New York 18. $.75.

THIS IS THE fourth edition of this list, and the
result of forty years’ storytelling experience in
the New York Public Library. Every story listed
has been told, and their inclusion rests solely upon

the enjoyment of the children who listened. to"

them. Book editions have been selected that seem
most suited for the story hour in text, illustration
and general format.

There is an alphabetical arrangement of stories
by title, with three subject indexes: Folk Tales,
Heroes, Festivals and Fete Days. It contains 730
annotated titles, giving the source of each. The
book is a “must” for all people who take storytell-
ing seriously, and want to know the best material.

Rural Recreation for America

By Charles J. Vettiner. Armory Building, Louis-
ville 2, Kentucky. $3.75.

Rural Recreation for America is essentially a
story of the organization and growth of the
recreation program during the past five years in
Jefferson County, Kentucky. It does contain many
suggestions for other rural areas, and the detailed
accounts of activities successfully developed should
be of particular value to recreation leaders. It is
designed for the convenience of those who wish to
use it as a working manual, and covers organiza-
tion, administration, a wide variety of program ac—

tivities, leadership, publicity and the problems in-
volved in each.

AUGUST 1949

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time F ield.

Everybody’s Party Book

By Harry Githens. Eldridge Entertainment House, ,
Inc., Franklin, Ohio. $1.00.

PARTIES FOR SEASONAL occasions, for both chil-
dren and adults, are included in this book. Each

iplan suggests several games and other activities, as

well as ideas for decorations, invitations and re—
freshments.

Papercraf t

By Joseph Leeming. J. B. Lippincott Co., Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania. $2.50.

EMEMBER MR. LEEMING’s fine earlier book,
3

“Fun With Paper”? This is his newest book

on paper folding, and just as much fun.

, Directions are clear, and the articles that can be
made are clever and original. Craft leaders on play-
grounds and in recreation centers will find the pro j-
ects easy to learn and easy to teach. Youngsters
and adults will enjoy them. They are excellent for

playgrounds, home and for amusing convalescent
children.

“If your nose is close to the grindstone. rough
And you hold it there long enough,
Ere long you’ll say there’s no such thing
As brooks that babble, birds that sing,
These three will all your world compose:
You, the Stone, and your darned Old Nose.”

«HA nonymous

 

267

This Game of Golf

By Henry Cotton. Charles Scribner’s Sons, New
York. $Io.OO. '

ABEAUTIFUL AND FASCINATING book by one of

Britain’s golfing giants. According to the 5 1m-
day Times: Henry Cotton has now produced some-
thing so entertaining, so wide in its scope . . . as to
assure him a more permanent place in the annals of
golf than . . . more championshps could have done.

Paper Sculpture

By Tadeusz Lipski. The Studio Publications, Inc.
381 Fourth Avenue, New York. $1.50.

HESE INSTRUCTIONS FOR three-dimensional pa-

per sculpture are useful and interesting for
poster and display purposes. They are excellent
for art and exhibit work, but not for casual craft
activity. Paper Sculpture is a good book for art
leaders or students who wish to learn a new medium
for displays, exhibitions or posters.

Toymaker’s Book

By C. J. Maginley. Harcourt, Brace and Company,

New York. $2.50.

HERE, AT LAST, is a simple book of attractive

woodwork projects that can be made with the
simplest of hand tools, and with easily available
materials, such as orange crates, cigar boxes. ice
cream sticks, spools and the like.

Projects include clear directions for transporta—
tion and construction toys, such as a moving van,
city bus, ferry boat and dump truck; circus proj—
ects, including a ferris wheel and merry-gO-round;
mechanical toys; games; a saltbox doll house and
all kinds of dolls’ furniture, including bathroom
fixtures.

Leaders Of workshops will find many good ideas
for attractive, yet not too difficult, wood projects.

Fun-To-Do

By Jerome S. Meyer. E. P. Dutton Company, Inc.,
New York. $2.49.

MR. MEYER 15 best known for his Big Fun Book

and .Mental III/hoopce. Many of his new style
quizzes and other items in this new book appeared
in Coronet and Reader’s Scope magazines. This is
a good collection of new entertainment ideas—
tongue—twisters, tricks, stunts, puzzles, and quizzes.
Written primarily for home entertainment, it would
be fun for clubs and other informal groups. a

268

A Hundred Games

for Rural Communities

By Ralph A. Felton. Department of the Rural
Church, Drew Theological Seminary, Madison,
New Jersey. S. 30.

HIS PAPER-BACKED, seventy-two page collection

of games is suitable for rural gatherings. The
tried-and-true activities include the get-acquainted
games, relays, tag games, races, stunts and rhythmic
games. Most of them are old favorites, and it is
nice to have them brought together in one inex-
pensive collection.

Pattern Without Pain

By Allen \V. Seaby. B. T. Batsford, Ltd., New
York. $3.50.

DO YOU HAVE TROUBLE making original patterns

or designs for your handcraft projects? Mr.
Seaby, former professor of art in the University of
Reading, shows you how in his new and very at-
tractive book. It is beautifully illustrated and should
be very valuable to art and craft leaders and
teachers.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board of Directors

REV. PAUL MOORE, J R., First Vice-President

Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

Gvs'rAvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT “'oons Buss, W'ashington, D. C.
MR5. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
\VILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUS‘rn: E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MR5. NORMAN HARROWER. Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. Htcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAxEsox. Bellport, L. 1., N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York. N. Y.

0119 T- MALLERY, Philadelphia. Pa.

CARL E. MILLIRER, Augusta, Me.

MRS. Ocoex L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. I.
REV. PAUL MOORE, JR_, Jersey City, N. J.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calit.
GRANT Trrswona, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. \YALSH, Xew York, N. Y.

F REDERICK M. “'ARBURG. New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Training Institutes

September and October, 1949

Chattanooga, Tennessee
September 26-O.ctober 3

E. T. ATTWELL

Organization and
Administration

Bastrop, Louisiana
September 26-30

Evansville, Indiana
October 24-28

Montpelier, Vermont
October 31-November 11

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

Chattanooga, Tennessee
October 3-7

RUTH EHLERs
Social Recreation

MARY BREEN LAWSON Kingston, New York,
Social Recreation September 26'28

Griffin, Georgia
September 5-9

Clovis, New Mexico
SeptembCr 26-30

Dallas, Texas
October 3-7

Austin, Texas
October 10-14

Houston, Texas
October 17-31

Morgan City, Louisiana
October 24-28

Texarkana. U.S.A.
October 31-November 4

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

Kansas City, Missouri
October 24-November 4

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Chattanooga, Tennessee
September 26-October 3

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

J. Howard Hargraves, Recreation Director, De-
partment of Public Utilities, Grounds and Build-

ings.
“\

\V. C. Hohmann, Secretary and Treasurer, Bastrop
Recreation Committee, BastrOp High School.

S. J. Medlicott, General Secretary, Y.M.C.A., Fifth
and Vine Streets.

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Rec-
reation, State House.

J. Howard Hargravesh Recreation Director, De-
partment of Public Utilities, Grounds and Build-
ings.

Mortimer B. Downer, The Junior League of King-
ston, New York, Incorporated, 55 Fair Street.

Senator Albert G. Swint, Orchard Hill, Georgia.

Miss Martha S. Smith, Housing Authority of the
City of Clovis.

W. H. Keeling, Superintendent of Recreation,
Dallas, Texas.

Beverly S. Sheffield, Director, Austin Recreation
Department. ‘

Arnold R. Moser, Superintendent of Recreation,
501 City Hall.

George Buckly, Superintendent of Recreation, City
Hall.

Alba J. Etie Jr., Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation, Department of Parks and Recreation, Mu-
nicipal Building.

Verna Rensvold, Superintendent of Public Recrea-
tion, City Hall.

J. Howard Hargraves, Recreation Director, De-
partment of Public Utilities.

Winston-Salem, North Carolina Loyd B. Hathaway. SUperintendent of Recreation,

October 17—28

Department of Recreation.

 

 Make 5 B UZZLE W Rite LLke tH?
n [S ,
BUZZIE is just learning to write. the Bond-A-Month Plan are such a blessing.

And every line he writes starts out with big They are “human'nature'PIOOf-”

letters and ends up With little ones- When you’re on one of these plans, the
The trouble is, he doesn’t plan ahead. He Sill-ring is done {01' YOU—automatically.
concentrates on making those big letters, and And rem embe r, every U. S. Saving Bond

lets the end of the line take care of itself. . .
you buy brings you $4 in ten years for every
Many grownups have the same trouble— $3 invested_

not with their handwritin , but their mone .
g y So don't let your life run on like Buzzie’s

They blow it _all at the beginning! and hit handwriting. F ix up the “end of the line” once
the “end of the line take care of itself. But it and for all by Signing up today for the payroll

Praetically never does' Savings Plan—war, if you are not on a payroll,
That’s why the Payroll Savings Plan and the Bond-A-Month Plan at your bank.

AUtOMA‘tiC SAvine Ls SURe SAV'me 70/;5. SAV‘mes Bonos

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the Magazine Publishers of America
as a public  '

\‘f/ ,r“

 

\ ,-

r

< .0:
J
{.2

.:
qr
\

