 

Contents

 

April 1949

Playgrounds 1906-1949 (Editorial),
by Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Our Children and the World They Live In 2

Imagination? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Home of Three Bears F ascinates Children
From Local Playgrounds,

by Pat Burnett Gish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Youngsters Ready for the Season . . . . . . 6
Duties to the Community . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
A Business Without a Balance Sheet,

by Virginia Musselman . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

One World on Your Playground, (How
to Plan a Festival), by Dick Kraus . . . 11

Teen-Age Radio Talent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Playgrounds in Sweden Are

Unconventional . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
“Pioneering in Cerebral Palsy” . . . . . . . . 15
“Tell Me a Story!” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Storytellers of the Nation,

by Louise Hutchinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
League of Champions—Products of Our

Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Street Play Causes Accidents . . . . . . . . . . 22

Playgrounds and Recreation Centers Serve

Girls and Women through the Kath-

erine Barker .Memorial Fund . . . . . . 23
A Children’s Trailer Theatre,
by Martha Soule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

Unusual Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 28

Added Attractions Promise Adventure.
by Beth Wallace Yates . . . . . . . . . . . . 29

Frances Ross Poley Memorial Fund . . . . 31

Fun For Defense Forces . . . New Jersey

Plan, by Margaret Hickey . . . . . . . . . . 33
Meet the Smith Family (Used in campaign

for recreation levy) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
The Handicapped Play, Too . . . . . . . . . . 37
Unmet Needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

At Headquarters . . . Virginia Musselman 39

Recreation Congress, New Orleans,

September 12-16, 1949 . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

Regular Features

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 45
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Recreation Training Institutes . . . . . . . .

Inside Back Cover

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: Globe Photos, Roy
Pinuey, Institute for Hand Knitting, and Play SchOols Asso-
ciation, for photographs, pages 2 and 3; Lincoln, Nebraska.

Star, pages 7 and 8; New York Star, Incorporated, and Bill
)Iauldin, for cartoon, copyright 1949, page 8; .‘Iassie-DIissonri
Resources Division, page 17; New York City Housing Anthority,
page 28; Ladies’ Home Journal, page 33.

 

RECESS—Stalwart cartoonists undertake

to present a playground full of typical,
milling moppets. Courtesy of Collier’s

magazine, the Crowell-Collier Pnblishing
Company, and the artiste—Janice aud
Stauley Berenstain.

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on tile in public librariés and is indexed in the Readerr’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Post OHice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Section 1103, ACt of OCtober 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Cabin-Sb! 1949, b) the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINT-ED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-THREE, NUMBER ONE

PRICE 35 CENTS

18%

,4

Henry Pfeitfer Li brar
Mao Murray College

3’

Jacksonville. Illinoi- '

 

Recreation

April 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

,I

 

Playgrounds

1906-1 949

YMCA’s, settlements, chambers of commerce, Ro-
tary, Kiwanis, Lions, PTA’s all helped. Newspapers
led campaigns. Labor leaders sent telegrams. Above
all parents were heard from.

s for playgrounds—playgrounds for
playgrounds for everyone. America

=t<******=§<************************************ Bred m baCkmg Playgrounds' Ame“

Because of narrow back margins this volume
No covers or
advertising can be removed when this type of

has been sewed to cords.

sewing is used.

NEW METHOD BOOK BINDERY, Inc.

grounds now.

is that citizens shall think, because in
so many billions have been expended
as for play, that the job is done. It

sing projects, in new real estate de-

*****************************************##0##new villages there is need to see that

V.

to bulld a cooperative movement. Their great asset
wa‘s faith. They had vision. They were ready to
work hard. Not much wealth was represented.

Very little has been proposed since that relates
to playgrounds that was not mentioned in those few
days of the 1906 meeting.

But America was ready for playgrounds. Cities
were willing to tear down block upon block of old
tenements to provide open space for playgrounds.

The people were ready, by their ballots on elec-
tion day, by referendum to vote millions upon mil-
lions of dollars for playgrounds.

In 1908, in the State of Massachusetts alone,
forty-two cities voted whether or not to accept a
certain state law and establish playgrounds and
forty out of the forty-two voted favorably.

In certain cities in playground referendums the

vote has been ninety per cent favorable to a play-
ground bond issue.

Park leaders, leaders in schools, churches,

APRIL 1949

re laid out playgrounds are planned

wc 111L1ch ourselves when we plan areas for living

and do not provide playgrounds.

Parents do not want to live where their children
are killed while playing in the streets; where jails
are built but playgrounds not provided for the chil-
dren; where there are tuberculosis sanitariums but
no opportunity for children to play vigorous games
out in the open air; where asylums are built for the
mentally afflicted but no opportunity provided by
the city for children to grow up normally with all
the playgrounds that should be the birthright of all
children.

The common ordinary people who make up Amer-
ica want playgrounds for all children everywhere
and want them now. The playground movement has
been and is a great cooperative movement in which
all people are united.

There is no difference of opinion now as to the
universal need for playgrounds.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Contents

 

April 1949

Playgrounds 1906-1949 (Editorial),
by Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Our Children and the World They Live In 2

Imagination? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-

Home of Three Bears Fascinates Children
From Local Playgrounds,

by Pat Burnett Gish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Youngsters Ready for the Season . . . . . . 6
Duties to the Community . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

A Business Without a Balance Sheet,
by Virginia Musselman . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

One World on Your Playground, (How
to Plan a Festival), by Dick Kra ‘ '

Teen-Age Radio Talent . . . . . . . . .

Playgrounds in Sweden Are
Unconventional . . . . . . . . . . . .

“Pioneering in Cerebral Palsy” . .

“Tell Me a Story!” . . . . . . . . . . .

Storytellers of the Nation,
by Louise Hutchinson . . . . . . .

League of Champions—Products
Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. a;

Street Play Causes Accidents . . . . . . . . . . 22

Playground-s and Recreation Centers Serve
Girls and Women through the Kath-

erine Barker Memorial Fund . . . . . . 23
A Children’s Trailer Theatre,
by Martha Soule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

Unusual Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 28

Added Attractions Promise Adventure.
by Beth Wallace Yates . . . . . . . . . . . . 29

Frances Ross Poley Memorial Fund . . . . 31

Fun For Defense Forces . . . New Jersey

Plan, by Margaret Hickey . . . . . . . . . . 33
Meet the Smith Family (Used in campaign

for recreation levy) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
The Handicapped Play, Too . . . . . . . . . . 37
Unmet Needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

At Headquarters . . . Virginia Musselman 39

nummtnm (“anon-pas. New Orleans,

Star, pages 7 anti 0; new 1v.” ...-_., a. _

Mauldin, for cartoon, copyright 1949, page 8; Marnie-Missouri
Resources Divisiou, page 17; New York City Housing Authority,
page 28; Ladies' Home Journal, page 33.

RECESS—Stalwart cartoonists undertake
to present a playground full of typical,

milling moppets. Courtesy of Collier’:
magazine, the Crowell-Collier Publishing
Company, and the artists—Janice and

Stanley Bereustaiu.

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Reader-1’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Posr Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1949, by the National Recreation Attoct'ation, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-THREE, NUMBER ONE

PRICE 35 CENTS

18%

Henry Pfeitier Li brary
Mao Maura-Ly College
Jacksonville, Illlnoil ’

 

Recreation

April 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

a

 

Playgrounds

1 906-1 949

HAT mm AMERICA wrought in these last

forty-three years since the National Recrea-
tion Association—then known as the Playground
Association of America—was established at that
Washington, D. C. meeting April 12, 1906?

Then only a few cities had a few playgrounds.
Even the word playground was fairly new.

Then the people—simple people—who believed
in children and in men and women, came together
to build a cooperative movement. Their great asset
wa's faith. They had vision. They were ready to
work hard. Not much wealth was represented.

Very little has been proposed since that relates
to playgrounds that was not mentioned in those few
days of the 1906 meeting.

But America was ready for playgrounds. Cities
were willing to tear down block upon block of old
tenements to provide open space for playgrounds.

The people were ready, by their ballots on elec-
tion day, by referendum to vote millions upon mil-
lions of dollars for playgrounds.

In 1908, in the State of Massachusetts alone,
forty-two cities voted whether or not to accept a
certain state law and establish playgrounds and
forty out of the forty-two voted favorably.

In certain cities in playground referendums the

vote has been ninety per cent favorable to a play-
ground bond issue.

Park leaders, leaders in schools, churches,

APRIL 1949

YMCA’s, settlements, chambers of commerce, Ro-
tary, Kiwanis, Lions, PTA’s all helped. Newspapers
led campaigns. Labor leaders sent telegrams. Above
all parents were heard from.

America was for playgrounds—playgrounds for
children and playgrounds for everyone. America
has never wavered in backing playgrounds. Amer-
ica is for playgrounds now.

The danger is that citizens shall think, because in
so short a time so many billions have been expended
for open spaces for play, that the job is done. It
is only begun.

In new housing projects, in new real estate de-
velopments, in new villages there is need to see that
after streets are laid out playgrounds are planned
also.

We indict ourselves when we plan areas for living
and do not provide playgrounds.

Parents do not want to live where their children
are killed while playing in the streets; where jails
are built but playgrounds not provided for the chil-
dren; where there are tuberculosis sanitariums but
no opportunity for children to play vigorous games
out in the open air; where asylums are built for the
mentally afflicted but no opportunity provided by
the city for children to grow up normally with all
the playgrounds that should be the birthright of all
children.

The common ordinary people who make up Amer-
ica want playgrounds for all children everywhere
and want them now. The playground movement has

been and is a great cooperative movement in which
all people are united.

There is no difference of opinion now as to the
universal need for playgrounds.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

amadahmm

2 RECREA'I'ION

HE OPPORTUNITY made available to

children for individual and social
growth is a challenge to all those who are
seriously concerned about the effects of the
troubled and restless times in which we live.
Not only is there confusion in the world of
nations, but confusion penetrates the world
of children. As a result, we have not made
satisfactory progress in implementing the
concept of the whole child. This is a goal
both educators and group workers spoke of
with some conhdence a few years ago. In reality,
we are still dealing with the “fractionalized” child.
What has been happening? Most vital from the
child’s point of view is the alarming change in fam-
ily life. . . . There is widespread confusion and in-
security among adults and children alike. . . .

Urbanization, crowded city conditions, unsatis—
factory living quarters from which there can be no
change for some time, and mounting costs in living
are all factors which have increasingly curtailed the
family’s ability to give children direction in the use
of their free time. Schools and social agencies are
trying to remove the boundary lines which separate
them and which keep their programs unrelated, but
the categories still exist and the coordinated serv-
ices that children should have are still lacking. The
auspices under which children spend the many hours
of non-school time are not half so important as that
these services be accessible, and be related to the
child’s and the family’s requirements.

Programs particularly for school-agers
need to be: day by day, so as to give a
sense of security and the feeling of belong-
ing ; imder able leadership, so that the child
can have a progression of worthwhile ex-
periences ; centered in group living, so that
the child can learn how to become a mem—
ber of a democratic society.

The more fragmentized his living, the
more necessary it is for out-of—school expe-
riences of this sort to be provided.

It is not too far-fetched to conceive of a
society of disgruntled adults coming out of
such a backgrorInd. We can ill afford to de-
velop frustrated future citizens for the im—
portant role of world leadership which they

may be called upon to fill.

From the 1947 Annual Report, by permission
of the Pmy Schools Association) New york Leader and children share experiences in activities.

 

 



 

APRIL 1949  3

Elmaginattnn?

“As everyone knows, the doors of imagination
must be opened if the heart is to be enriched.”

URING THE past year, expansion of the number of playgrounds in America has been
heartening, the use of the services of trained leadership has multiplied. The nation has
become playground-conscious. In many instances, community people have been so con-
cerned that they have actually constructed their own playgrounds; in some areas, new

and unusual equipment is being tried out. Adults increasingly have been using playground facilities
themselves, meeting their friends, enjoying program activities. More adult and family programs
have been introduced; special events for young married couples, working men and women, house-
wives, fathers, have been included. More people over sixty are being considered in initial planning
of playground areas, and special shady sections are being developed for them—where they can sit
and chat, play quiet games or enjoy such things as shuffleboard, horseshoes and so on.

Some playgrounds, in fact, have attained that ideal status of “center of community life” toward
which all are working. _

Many programs have been excellent; but in taking an over-all look at program activities in
general,‘it might be well to pause and ask ourselves some questions. Several visitors, making a
study of our playgrounds of late, have presented us with an objective view. The comment has been
made that, while well-equipped and supervised, our playground programs, on the whole, seem to
follow a stereotyped pattern showing too little emphasis on program other than sports; that they
often are lacking in imaginative planning and content. Is this true?

Are too many of us, then, overlooking those activities which stimulate the imagination, satisfy
the search for new worlds of adventure, open to children all possible channels for creative experience,
contribute carry-over values which are varied and far reaching? How would you evaluate your own.
program in the light of the above?

This is not to say that there have not been many instances of original and imaginative play-
ground activities throughout the country as, for example, in Alexandria, Virginia, where a full-sized
pirate’s galleon takes boys and girls a’sailing on the seven seas, and the Indian tepees on the play-
ground have been decorated by the children with designs of their own creation; or in Palo Alto,
California, where imaginative play is encouraged by well-designed facilities for a children’s theater;
or in Memphis, Tennessee, where last summer’s playground theme was “Hobbies”—where hobby
scrapbooks were made, everyone collected or created something for the Hobby Exhibit, Dramatic
Club Hobby Theatres were formed, pet clubs organized, a Hobby Fair and other hobby projects
carried out; or in Lexington, Kentucky, where little girls dress in their mothers’ clothes and are
taught proper manners when they entertain their dolls at tea, and where Lady-Make-Believe makes
calls at all the playgrounds. '

More examples of some few of these programs will be found on the following pages.

4 RECREATION

Home of Three Bears Fascinates

Children From Local Playgrounds

Pat Burnett Gish

HIS IS THE story of the three bears.

Once upon a time, in a little house that was
east of the sun and west of the moon, but in Fay-
ette County all the same, there lived three bears—
Father Bear, Mother Bear and Baby Bear. These
bears stayed in their house during the winter when
the weather was right, but when June rolled
around, the heat drove the bears to the home of
their relatives in Michigan, where they remained
until September.

One summer, about, eight years ago, while the
bears were away on their vacation, a Lexington,
Kentucky, playground director named, not Goldi-
locks, but Miss Anna S. Pherigo, was looking for
something different to amuse the several hundred
small children who frequented the various play-

 

Lady-Make-Believe visits all Lexington playgrounds
in a pony cart; delights children with her stories.

APRIL 1949

grounds in the city.

Miss Pherigo, out for a drive one day, was
guided by a new invention, called “radar,” on her
new car, to the home of the three bears. Since that
time, more than 1,400 Lexington children have
thrilled to a visit to the House of the Three Bears.

Children are loaded into cars at the playgrounds,
and with Miss Pherigo’s car and the “radar” in
the lead, a route “east of the sun and west of the
moOn,” over the roller-coaster road, leads them to
the three bears’ residence.

Here everything comes in three sizes—big, mid-

Mrs. Gish is reporter for the Lexington
Herald -Lender, from which this article is
reprinted.

 

Children peer cautiously inside the House of Three
Bears, fearful lest the occupants might be at home.

5

dle—sized, and little. The fabled big-sized chair for
the big—sized Father Bear, the middle-sized chair
for the middle-sized Mother Bear, and the wee-
little chair for the wee-little Baby Bear face the
stone mantel, over which hangs a photograph of
Uncle Cross Bear of Michigan.

Because Baby Bear is too lazy to fix his chair,
and Father Bear was too busy to do it, the wee-
little chair still is just as it was when Goldilocks
left it.

On the table are three porridge bowls and three
spoons, empty now because the bears have left.
But the pot of water is already on the stove, await-
ing the return of the bear family. Three sizes of
coffee pots, water bottles and mixing bowls also
are in readiness.

Upstairs are three beds, on which no child may
lie, for the bears would be angry if they knew
someone had slept in their beds. Children look
out of the window from which Goldilocks leaped
in her haste and fright, and show no inclination to
nap in the bears’ bedroom. Clothes hooks marked
for Father, Mother and Baby are on the bedroom
walls.

In the bathroom there are three towels. The
dirty one, of course, belongs to Baby Bear. The
bears’ combs are pine cones—three sizes, naturally.

Outside the house are three peach trees, bearing
big—sized peaches, middle-sized peaches, and wee-
little peaches. Father Bear’s garden grows big
man-sized vegetables such as corn and cabbage;
Mother Bear’s middle-sized garden grows such
middle-sized things as lima beans and tomatoes;
but Baby Bear was too lazy to hoe his wee—little
garden, so all it grows is weeds.

Near the outdoor oven, in which the bears can
roast a whole lamb when porridge becomes monot-
onous, are two tables—a large one for Mother and
Father Bear and a small one for Baby Bear. Bees
in three hives work all summer to make honey for
the bears’ winter breakfasts.

When the hot days in early summer become too
much for the bears, they may bathe in their swim-
ming pools—a big one for Father Bear, who
splashes a lot, and a shallow one for ’Mother and
Baby Bear, who merely like to sit in the water.
At one end of the shallow pool are several paint
pots in which the fairies dip their brushes when
they are painting the flowers.

And who ever heard of the three bears without
Goldilocks? So Goldilocks’ house is about twenty-
five yards away. When Goldilocks isn’t at home,
the children may visit her house, too. Pictures of
most of Goldilocks’ friends, including Cinderella,
Little Boy Blue, Mistress-Mary-Quite-Contrary,
Little Bo-Peep, Mary-Had-A-Little-Lamb, and
Tom-Tom-the—Piper’s-Son, are hung on the walls.
Goldilocks’ doll collection is a sight any little girl
would love.

Lunch on the bears’ picnic table, and a few
peaches taken from genial Mother Bear’s tree, are
quite exciting to children in the eight-to-ten-year-
old range.

A cry of “Here come the bears! They’ve come
back early,” sends the youngsters running to the
cars, and the “east of the sun, west of the moon”
route is followed back to Lexington, where aston-
ished families hear marvelous tales of a real house
with real furniture, in which live three famous
bears—very real to these visitors.

Youngsters Ready

1TH THE OPENING of sixteen summer play-

grounds this year, in park areas and on
school grounds, Lincoln, Nebraska, will inaugurate
its twenty-seventh consecutive summer playground
season.

This is but one activity, however, of Lincoln’s
year-round recreation program, now carried on by
the Lincoln Recreation Board, which represents
the cooperative efforts of the Board of Education
and the city. Baseball at the Muny fields, basket-
ball, youth clubs, social gatherings planned for
young and old, playground awards, a picnic loan
service, the Muny game center, assistance to the

6'

Industrial Recreation Association, the Good Time
Club for persons over sixty years of age, and as-
sistance to church groups in their recreation pro-
grams—such is the variety of activities which
keeps the staff of the recreation ofiice, located in
City Hall, busy early and late throughout the year.

Interest in providing playground and recreation
activities for the community has been long stand—
ing in Lincoln. The records of the National Rec-
reation Association show that the first contact they
had with Lincoln was in 1908 when Superintend-

Reprinted from the Sunday Journal and Star, Lincoln, Nebraska.

RECREATION

 

 

Summer playgrounds are the basic activity sponsored by the Lincoln Recreation Board.

ent of Schools, W. L. Stephens, wrote them for
playground literature and other information.

In 1909, the City Improvement Society, made
up of leading Lincoln citizens, requested the serv-
ices of a field secretary. They were raising $1,000
privately for summer playground equipment and
leadership.

It was not until 1922 that the start was made of
what was to become a permanent recreation sys-
tem for Lincoln. In that year, the PTA laid the
groundwork for bringing the Board of Education
and the city together in the joint financing and
control of summer playgrounds on school grounds
and in park areas. In June, 1923, seven super-
vised summer playgrounds were maintained as a
result of this effort. There has not been a break
in the summer playground program of Lincoln
ever since that time.

for the Season

The success of the playgrounds operated in 1923
and 1924 was such that Superintendent of Schools,
M. C. Lefler, sent an invitation, supplemented by
an invitation from twelve individuals and seven
civic clubs, to the National Recreation Association
to send a representative to Lincoln. This resulted
in the creation of an advisory recreation board
made up of two members from the Board of Edu-
cation, two city officials, and three citizens at large.

This cooperation provides for Lincoln the maxi-
mum use of public facilities at a minimum of ex-
pense. In 1947 the board was reorganized under
city ordinance, and the membership was increased

APRIL 1949

from seven to nine by the addition of two more
lay members.

Earl Johnson served as part-time director, with
a full-time assistant, from 1925 until 1932. By‘
this time, the activities had grown to a point where
the services of a full-time director were needed.
James .C. Lewis was appointed to the position, and
the office was moved from the Board of Education
to City Hall, where a regular staff of four now
carries on the work.

While summer playgrounds are the basic activ-
ity of the board’s program, the largest activity for
the summer season, in point of numbers, is at the
Muny fields, which were established in 1934.
Floodlights make possible baseball games after
dark as well as in the daytime. Sixty-three teams
have been participating in the program. These
teams include those from the industrial, junior
chamber and church leagues. During the war, the
Muny fields were a real asset for the air base
teams which played softball and baseball games
that drew large crowds of spectators.

Special Activities

The most spectacular activity sponsored by the
Lincoln Recreation Board was the Christmas pa-
rade. This activity was abandoned when the war
created a manpower and material shortage but,
from 1934 to 1940, this colorful spectacle drew
hundreds of citizens from Lincoln and adjacent
towns to see Santa Claus, various storybook and
nursery rhyme characters parade through the

Icity’s downtown streets.

In step with the present trend of providing spe-
cial teen-age group activities, a weekly dance is
conducted during the summer in the Antelope
Park pavilion, and a swim at the :Muny pool every
Friday night, weather permitting, for teen-agers
who have graduated from junior high school. As

7

 

Fun is provided for all age groups. Here Good Time
Club members ponder a game of Chinese checkers.

many as 2,000 register for this activity and at-
tendance ranges from 260 to 735 each week.

The High Spot and Hub clubs for boys and girls
in high school function during the winter months,
their dances being held in the high school build—
ings. The Pilot clubs, for boys between eight and
fourteen years of age, have been especially popular.

Other winter activities have included the West
A Center mixed groups for those from twelve to
twenty years of age; the Havelock Center for
junior high school students; and planned activities

at Whittier Junior High for the Belmont boys and
girls between the close of school and the arrival of
transportation to take them to their homes. The
Swing and Cheat Club is a square dance group for
those between the ages of eighteen and thirty-five,
sponsored jointly by the Y.W.C.A. and the recrea-
tion department.

One of the largest winter activities each year
is basketball. Fifty-five teams, playing in five
leagues, have brought the figure for this activity,
including players and spectators, up to 15,000. A
newer activity is the city-Wide track and field meet
sponsored by the Cooperative Club. Any play-
ground boy or girl is eligible to enter this meet.

In addition to the city’s regular recreation pro—
gram, Superintendent of Recreation Lewis has
charge of golf, tennis and the Muny pool.

It is the policy of the board, in planning public
recreation programs for the City of Lincoln, not
to infringe on the activities of private and semi-
private agencies. Where possible, it c00perates
with them. The board has always been affiliated
with the National Recreation Association and
receives regular service from that organization.
Making available the fullest possible use of all of
Lincoln’s public facilities for the leisure—time en—
joyment of everyone is the aim and purpose of the
Lincoln Recreation Board.

 

Duties to the Community

HE UNITED NATIONS, working on the Interna-
tional Declaration of Human Rights. on No—
vember 21, 1948, by a vote of thirty-four to two,
adopted the following statement: “Everyone has
duties to the community in which alone free and
full development of his personality is possible.”
Because of the tremendous growth of interest in
service to the neighborhood and to the community
in the United States, it is of particular interest to
American citizens to see such a resolution adopted

by the UN. Several business corporations have
recently been emphasizing in their advertisements

the great need for all citizens to work in behalf of
their communities. For example, the Elgin Watch
Company, in their broadcast on November 25,

1948, had a most eloquent plea for such commu-

nity service. Always, of course, cooperative pro-
vision for recreation in the community is thought
of as a part of this service.

8

 

u I‘hs Semed , '1’ch . My 433-;1‘ M. “(9% (30:5
(“*0 Q‘éYSVOUIAAS'. ”

.-

RECREATION

A Business

 

"Spring cannot be measured”

GREAT DEAL has been said this year, by press
A and radio, about “balancing the budget.” It
always has been a problem in voluntary and serv-
ice agencies, such as ours, and this year such agen-
cies have had to face an increasing demand for
service, plus a large rise in the actual cost of such
services. This raises a big question[ Is such book-
keeping possible? Can service be measured in
terms of money? Should it be so measured?

The Correspondence and Consultation Bureau
of the National Recreation Association feels par-
ticularly concerned over such questions because
the funds that make its work possible come from
’ individual contributors all over the country. These
contributors have a right to know how their money
was spent, and what it produced. We know, of
course, that our correspondence and ,our consulta—
tions are responsible for bringing in many orders,
subscriptions and memberships,
but no figures are kept which

Without a Balance Sheet

Virginia Musselman

stated in terms of dollars. The degree to which
this Bureau accomplishes its purpose cannot be
measured in terms of anything, because quantita-
tive measures, the ones that are used in dealing
with costs, are not applicable.

We hear much about the Atomic  Perhaps
we can find a comparison here to illustrate our
work and the difficulty of seeing and judging im-
mediate tangible results. Atomic energy, they say,
results from the breaking of the nucleus of the
atom. Under specific, controlled conditions, this
nucleus can be split by setting up what is called a
“chain reaction.” In doing this, entirely new sub-
stances are created, and some of the mass of the
atom appears in the form of “energy.”

We like to think that our work sets up a chain
reaction, sometimes amazingly and excitineg
rapid, sometimes slow, but always followed by
some release of energy. We
believe it does—but we can’t

could be used for cost and in-
come comparison and, indeed,
such a system would, in itself,
be an additional and question-
able expense.

We find, therefore, that we
cannot measure our service,
unless some means can be de-
vised to measure intangibles.
Until we can do this, a balance
sheet is meaningless.

The measure of an organiza-
tion of any kind is its purpose.
The purpose of a commercial
organization is to make money,
and the degree to which it ac-
complishes this purpose can be

APRIL 1949

In 1948, the Correspondence and
Consultation Bureau of the National
Recreation Association received
21,226 written requests for infor-
mation and service—an average of
about fifty-eight a day for every
day in the year.

Five hundred and thirty people
came in person, instead of writing.
Among them were visitors from
Sweden, England, South America,
Australia, India, Burma, New Zea-
land, China, Canada, and South
Africa. We have no doubt that the

seeds of the recreation movement
will eventually spring up in many
far-away places! No count of the
local and long-distance telephone
calls was kept. Time was too short!

 

prove it. Nor can we measure it.

No one would dispute the
value of giving information and
advice to recreation depart-
ments on such definite ques-
tions as those of administra-
tion, layout, personnel stand—
ards and program. What if
this information is not used?
What if it shows no “release
of energy” for years? Should
we place such inquiries on the
debit or the credit side of the
balance sheet?

What about the boy who
wrote, “All my life I’ve wanted
to paint. I am fourteen years

9

old.” He probably will never be a great painter.
He may try it, and tire of it in a week, as often
happens among fourteen-year-olds. \Vere we
wrong in spending time and money in giving him
material to help him learn to paint? If he never
paints a single picture, but looks at paintings with
a “seeing” eye, was it worthwhile?

Take the old man who said, at one of the NRA
Institutes, “I sho’ ain’t. lived in ninety-two years
’til I learned how to play.” His days of playing
are pretty much limited. Should we count him on
the debit side? If he never has another day of fun,
was that one evening worth anything in terms of
a human balance sheet?

Take all the college students who visit us, or
write us for help on their theses. They’ll use what
we give them for that one paper—but will it mean
anything more? Should we say, “They’re a waste
of time and money,” or can we think of them in
terms of possible future board members, volunteer
leaders, or parents whose knowledge of recreation
will make a better home for their youngsters?

The professional architects, who write to us
about layout and design of recreation areas and
facilities, make money in their work. Shall we
count them on the red side of our ledger? If the
buildings they design, or the playtields they plan,
are better because of our assistance, doesn’t the
chain reaction set up by our help go right down
to every youngster or adult who was those facil-
ities?

That ex-RAAF pilot in Australia, who lost an
arm and a leg in the war, and who is paralyzed
from the waist down—was our letter, and the ma-
terial on games and hobbies which we sent him, a
useless expenditure in terms of end results?

Those teachers, those ministers, those rural
leaders who write to us in such numbers—ahey’ll
have very little apparent effect upon the recrea—
tion movement in America. Yet the church may
hold its members better, the schools may give
more to their pupils, and the farm families may
find rural living more satisfactory through them.
We can’t tell. Maybe the teacher forgot our an-
swer, and filed our material away in a deep drawer.
Maybe she didn’t—and some youngster discovered
that school was fun, and will plan to go on to col-
lege. \Vho can tell what chain reactions are set
up, or where they end?

Those local individuals and groups who write:
“Our youngsters hitch-hike fourteen miles to the
nearest movie,” or “Our town has nothing to offer
our children. “7 hat shall we do ?”—do they count?
The individual may move away or lose interest;
the group may dissolve before the insurmountable

10

problem of finance. Or, the individual may grow
to two, or three, or four people who write in; the

group grow into a Board or Recreation Council.
\Ve can’t tell. \Ve don’t know. Often that early

interest seems to disappear, like an underground
river. Sometimes, in a year, it bubbles up into
sight again, with exciting news—“\V e ran a pro-
gram on three playgrounds last summer, thanks to
you, and we’re working for a year-round program
now.” Certainly that would put it on the credit
side—but what about the ones from whom we
don’t hear? Shall we count them off as losses?
Did those seeds fall on barren ground? And if
they did, does it make the effort of planting any
less important?

\Vc know we sow a lot of seed. Some of it falls
on fertile soil, and sometimes, not always, we hear
about the fruit it produces. Some of it may fall on
barren soil, or rocks, and bear no fruit. \Ve keep
remembering, however, that we’ve seen big pines
growing out of what looks like solid rock, so we
don’t give up any seed as lost effort. That pine
tree may have little or no soil, but it offers shelter
to birds and animals, firewood to the farmer, lum-
ber to industry, and beauty to everyone who sees it.

\Ve can’t see or measure what goes on in the
hearts of men—or in their minds. Until we can,
shouldn’t we count no seed as lost? Shouldn’t we

try to remember that many seeds germinate slowly,
and that many plants mature slowly, once they
come up? If they don’t come up, or don’t mature,
perhaps they make room for another plant—and

perhaps the gardener has learned something more
about their cultivation. If there is one thing a

gardener learns, it is patience—patience and hope.

Sandburg caught it in his words, “Spring comes
on forever.”

Spring can’t be caught in a ledger. \Ve have to
leave many things to time. It is a safer measure
than money—but you can’t balance it!

VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN—See page 39

WW

“The measuring rods of attendance registra-
tions and other statistical information are unsatis-
factory when used in connection with such a
department of human service as a recreation de-
partment. One cannot measure the hours of hap-
piness; the joy of self—expression; the challenge
of skill and the opportunities for friendly sociabil-
ity that are important factors of all our programs.”

—Eligabeth Recreation Commission.

 

RECREATION

One World
on Your Playground

Dick Kraus

OST RECREATION LEADERS
would be likely to say,
"‘A folk festival on our summer
playgrounds? Sounds good!”
But, chances are, they would
add, “Wouldn’t it be awfully ex-
pensive and hard to organize?”
The answer is—not necessar-
ily! More and more commu-
nities have been putting on suc-
cessful summer playground folk
festivals, with children of all
ages performing various national
dances and songs in colorful cos-
tumes. When properly planned
and organized, this sort of proj-
ect can bring rich benefits to a
summer recreation program. Too
often, playground activities are
centered about sports and games,
presenting little of a cultural or creative nature.
Preparing for a folk festival through the months
of July and August can increase the variety of an
activities’ program. In addition, by setting up a
summer’s-end goal for leaders and children, a reg-
ular and growing attendance is stimulated through
the hottest days of the playground season.
Another value of the folk festival idea is that
the demonstrating of, and participation in, the
dances and songs of various national groups, races,

Dick Kraus, social recreation specialist of the
Westc/aester County Recreation Commis-
sion, is a square dance caller for the annual

United Nations Folk Festival and teaches

square dancing to big/9 school teachers for
the New York City Board of Education.

APRIL 1949

 

Wide age spread promotes cooper-
ation. Problems can be solved.

 

Build up the festival idea as something
exciting. Keep the folk dancing simple.

and creeds, in a happy, c00pera-
tive setting, serves to build un—
derstanding and friendship and
to eliminate unhealthy attitudes
of prejudice or discrimination.
In St. Paul, Minnesota, for in-
stance, a series of outstanding
annual festivals, with folks of all
ages, creeds and races partici-
pating, has helped to weld that
community of many diverse ori-
gins into a unified and happy
city. ,
Granted, then, that folk festi-
vals, particularly those combin-
ing the efforts of all the play-
grounds and play schools in the
area, can bring worthwhile divi-
dends to a summer program.
How do you go about produc-
ing your own festival? That is the big question.
First, it’s a good idea to get together some time
in the Spring, to plan the event. All recreation
executives, leaders and otherwise interested per-
sons— should be invited, at this time, to share and
contribute ideas and to insure the widest possible
sponsorship when the actual work gets underway.
Shortly after this initial meeting, you will want
to pick a theme for your festival. The subject
should be topical, or appealing to all children, if
possible. It should lend itself to colorful dances
and songs. In Westchester County, New York,
the 1947 theme was provided by the United Na-
tions; while the following year, they held an
“Aladdin and His Magic Lamp” festival, depict-
ing the travels of Aladdin around the world. Play-
ground children from each of the fifteen partici-
pating communities learned several basic dances,
which they performed en masse on festival day.

11

In addition, several groups learned and presented
the more difficult exhibition dances of foreign
lands. Other themes might have to do with Amer-
ican history, holidays, fairy tales, or the back-
ground of your own particular community.

Let’s say, now, that you’ve decided upon a
theme, and assigned people to plan and write the
program itself. At this point you’ve hit what ap—
pears to be your first snag. You need a leader—
someone who can teach the folk and square dances
to your children or to their leaders.

This needn’t be as difficult as it sounds. For-
tunately, folk and square dancing have been mak-
ing great strides in popularity in recent years.
Several states have formed ‘dance federations, and
many large cities have a number of dance groups,
with skilled leaders. If there is no such federa-
tion or club in your vicinity, you may be able to
find a member of the faculty of a nearby college or
university who will be glad to help.

Lacking any of these, there are many useful
books, kits and phonograph records which your
leaders can use in preparing for a simple festival.
Some of the best sources are: “Folk Dances from
Old Homelands” by Elizabeth Burchenal, pub-
lished by G. Schirmer, New York; “Folk Dancing
for All” by Michael Herman, published by A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York; “The Handy
Play Party Book” by Lynn Rohrbough, Coopera-
tive Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio ; “Good
Morning” by Henry Ford, Dearborn, Michigan;
“The Folk Festival Handbook” published by The
Evening Bulletin Folk Festival Association, Bulle-
tin Building, Philadelphia 7. These may be ob-
tained directly from the publishers, or from
Michael Herman, director of the Community Folk
Dance Center, P. O. Box 201, Flushing, New
York, who will be glad to help you by also giving
information on other music and dance sources.

Now that you’ve got a leader, or perhaps are
taking steps to train your own leaders, it’s time to
give careful consideration to the exact program-
ming of the festival, costumes, sets, and location.
Planning the program will be easy, if you remem-
ber to strike a proper balance between songs, mass
dances and small group demonstrations with all
held together by a narrator and, possibly, by a
single repeated musical theme.

If there are any adult dance or choral groups
in your community, they will probably be pleased
to accept an invitation to participate. Often there
are such groups which meet regularly, although
little is known of their work. Depending on your

section of the country, you may discover excellent
Slav, Scandinavian, Irish or Mexican dance

 

12

groups, just raring to come out and strut their
stuff! You may find a good barbershop quartet or
outstanding accordionist to sing or play popular
and folk tunes. Possibly, to make the festival more
of an all-around playground project, you will want
to exhibit craft articles made during the summer,
or to give out sports or championship awards at a
midpoint in the show.

Costumes can add much“ to the color and pag—
eantry of the occasion, and need not be expensive.
At little cost, brightly-colored crepe paper can be
used. Often a characteristic sash or skirt or hat
will indicate the proper nationality, and will lend
color to a plain white outfit. Costumes can be pre-
pared in the weeks before the festival, as a quiet
or rainy day activity. Helpful suggestions and
ideas can be found in “The Costume Book for
Parties and Plays” by Joseph Leeming, J. B. Lip-
pincott, Philadelphia 5, and in “How to Make
Historic American Costumes” by Evans, A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York.

Your backdrop, or set, while it need not be
complicated or elaborate, helps to make your show
a success. It may be merely a row. or semi-circle
of benches, flanked by flags. Or, if you are lucky
enough to have a craft workshop available, as
many communities do during the summer, you will
surely be able to get a squad of boys together to
design and build a simple backdrop, using light
poles, canvas and cheesecloth. Often you will
find drapes or other materials gathering dust in
school or community center storerooms.

You may have decided upon a location for the
presentation in advance but, if not, this should be
done as early as possible. Chances are that it will
be most effective out-of-doors, preferably on a
week—end afternoon when everyone, including
dads, can attend. \Vhen you pick the location,
however, don’t forget that it may rain! If it is to
be on a high school football field, with ready-made
grandstands, make sure that the indoor auditorium
is available in case of bad weather. If this cannot
be done, set an alternate day for the festival, and
make sure it is announced. It can be a very great
disappointment if you’ve worked hard and looked
forward to a big event all summer long, only to
have rain ruin it at the end.

Your local situation will determine the sort of
teaching schedule you work out with your leaders,
and the amount of time devoted to preparation for
the festival each week.

The technique found best by the County Recre-
ation Commission in \Vestchester was to hire a
song and folk dance summer specialist to travel
throughout the county, teaching in each of the fif-

RECREATION

teen participating areas. In some communities,
children from several playgrounds were gathered
together in one spot. Perhaps two hours a week
were spent at each place. In addition, a weekly
recreation evening took place at the county center,
to give playground leaders additional skills in
games, dancing and singing. If you cannot afford
to have a full-time specialist for the festival pro-
gram—and few communities can -——-this latter
way-of training leaders is ideal. With a pianist, or
even with records, your leaders can work out many
of the simple dances and formations themselves.

At all times, it’s a good idea to remember to
keep the dances simple!' Enthusiasm and spirit,
more than complicated steps, make folk dancing
enjoyable to do—and watch. Keep them simple—~—
and keep them fun!

More than once, during the summer, problems
are bound to arise. Bad weather will hamper your
teaching; attendance will fluctuate; your best
dancers will be dragged away on vacations or be
taken ill. A wide age spread will make it difficult
to plan and teach, and often boys will refuse to
dance with girls, or at all. Face up to the problems
one at a time, and don’t become discouraged.

Get started early with your theme—program and
teaching schedule worked out before the play-
grounds open. Then you’ll be ready to go right to
work on the songs and dances, without letting a
few precious weeks slip by.

Teen-Age Radio Talent

EVERY FRIDAY EVENING, from eight to eight-
thirty p.m., boys and girls of Gadsen, Alabama,
gather at the Recreation Center for the Teen-Age
Radio Broadcasts. Recreation leaders help select
the best talent on their playgrounds to appear on
the program; other teen—agers write the scripts
and, under the supervision of a staff member, make
arrangements for other portions of the variety
program. The time for the broadcasts is donated
by local station—WGNH—as a public service.
This summer playground activity is very popu—
lar with everyone, for not only does it offer pleas-
ant entertainment—as proved by the several hun-
dred teen-agers who comprise the audience each
week—but it also enables many of the participants
to get their first experience in radio. Several of
the boys and girls go on to study specialized
courses in this field at college, while others are
fortunate enough to continue in radio work.

APRIL 1949

Build up the festival idea to the children as
something exciting and enjoyable! Then, rather
than aim at the whole playground at once, take ten
or fifteen of the most interested, and teach them
regularly. Make it a dance club, with membership
something to be prized! If you find that boys-
ridicule folk and square dancing as sissy stuff, and
refuse to take girls as partners, try to get them
into some easy, rhythmic circle games, in which
no partners are required. Gradually they’ll get to
enjoy the dances. Then, bit by bit, accustom them
to the idea of coupling off for certain dances.

Once they discover how much fun they can
have, complaints will stop! And, when they find
out that participants in the festival will get their
names, and maybe their pictures, in the local news-
paper, they’ll be mighty impressed.

There are problems, yes. But it’s the net result
that counts. When you see a crowd of excited,
happy youngsters out on the field, with a large
audience clapping enthusiastically and tapping feet
in time to the music; when you see that all the
question marks have miraculously turned into ex—
clamation points; when you see that you’ve got a
real show on your handsv—that is your reward.

And, when parents and town officials come up
to praise the festival, saying “So that’s what you
were doing all summer! Not just baseball and
checkers, eh ?”—that’s a pretty good reward, too!

(See Handbooks of European Dances, page 47.—Ed.)

 

l3

., .. A’

a, ' 

Playgrounds

’ ‘-

 

From an interview with 1111's. Stina Wretland-

The playground director talks things over with the Larsson of Sweden, and a BBC Broadcast
tin? tots ENJOY“; themselves 0“ the Cl‘mbmg 1055' prepared by the Stockholm City Council.

F YOU SHOULD visit Stockholm, Sweden, and
I wander about in the southern part of the city,
you would come across signs reading “Children,
come and build your own town!” If you followed
the directions given below, you would find your-
self at the corner of a natural park where, over
the entrance—even above the town’s own city
arms—you would see the words, “Freetown, Stora
Bleckan.” \Valking through the park gates, on
any weekday, you would come upon as many as
two hundred children, working like beavers, busily
building curious contraptions reflecting the various
ideas of a child as to how to build a house.

In this—one of the city’s fifty-some playgrounds
—Holger Blom, superintendent of the Stockholm
parks, is experimenting with a new type of play-
ground where “children between the ages of six
and fifteen can play freely, try out things, build
their own.” Here they have at their disposal ham-
mer and nails, pliers, saws, old planks. On a sim-
ple town plan, they are allowed to build houses to
their hearts’ content. All children become “citi-
; zens” of the town, and—according to the town
charter—each citizen takes care of himself and of
the tools and materials that he borrows from the
common store. Important decisions are passed
upon by the City Fathers, consisting of ten citizens
who have proved their dependability; and a Lord
Mayor is elected. Only three things are forbidden
within the town limits: to go barefoot, to carry
matches, and to destroy a neighbor’s house.

The interest of the children varies, sometimes
running to two or three room houses, with bricks
from an old pile being used as building materials.
During another week, perhaps, there will be noth-
ing above ground but a mass of pipes, which are
the air-vents of underground caves in the process

 

After winter play, the children warm up in a heated
hut. Here leader is arranging the sliding boards.

 

A two-hundred-year-old farmhouse in center of town _ _
is used as shelter and playroom for boys and girls. 01 belng dug.

14 RECREATION

in Sweden

Are

Unconventional

The Stockholm Tramways Corporation has be—
come so interested in the project that it has do-
nated a number of old trams, on which the children
may play, or which they may improve with ham-
mer, nails and boards. A few old scrapped motor
cars, and a discarded airplane contributed by the
Air Force, complete the equipment.

The youngsters form teams for each building
project and take care of their own discipline. Be-
fore this idea of Superintendent Blom’s was put
into practice, fears were expressed in some quar-
ters that it might lead to hooliganism, and that the
children might hurt themselves or each other. In
actual fact, the result has been exactly the opposite.

Mr. Blom says, “Trust the children, give them
the chance of playing freely but not aimlessly, and
do not subject them to too many ‘don’t do this
and don’t do that’s.’ Then, their ambition will
grow and they will acquire self-confidence and
even a sense of responsibility. This offers a valu-
able contribution both to their physical and to their
mental education.”

He feels that the children’s future depends upon
the environment in which they spend their child—
hood. Of the other playgrounds in Stockholm,
fifteen are open all year—round. These, too, are
located in parks which, after being merely orna-
mental, have been redesigned as effective, openZair
playrooms. Playground leaders have been ap-
pointed to the park-recreation grounds.

Much of the equipment in these areas, carefully
thought out and planned to challenge the creative
and constructive instincts of children, differs from
that typical of playgrounds in this country. Build-
ing blocks, climbing stocks, building boards are
popular. Games often are worked out by the chil-
dren themselves, and occasionally are written up
in a booklet published by the park department.

APRIL 1949

 

Wooden blocks, boards and saw-horses are good
building materials. Above: a grocery store in action.

Wooden blocks, of the same size as ordinary
bricks and painted red, keep boys and girls busy
for hours. Each set consists of two hundred pieces.
In the winter time, small “sliding boards” are pro-
vided for a ride down the icy hills. Heated huts
are available for warming fingers and toes.

In addition, children play ball, paddle in pools
and enjoy swings and other modern equipment,
but always on the principle that they may “play
on their own.” Indoor recreation also is supplied
for both children and teen-agers.

In the new playgroundereetown—however,
the Stockholm Department of Parks, which is a
division of the Child Welfare Department, has
come a step further in its efforts to inspire chil-
dren to play freely, try out things for themselves.

“Pioneering in Cerebral Palsy”

AFOUR-DAY SESSION of the hrst National Con-
ference on Cerebral Palsy Opened February 6

at the Statler Hotel in New York City. Over
11,000 people registered—doctors, nurses, thera—
pists, social workers, and over 3,300 parents of
palsied children from forty-two states and fifteen
countries. The meeting was held for the purpose
of establishing a national foundation to work out
a program of aid for these handicapped people.

One entire afternoon of the conference was de-
voted to a panel discussion of recreation in rela-
tion to the cerebral palsied, the speakers being Su-
san Samuel, Director of Recreation, New York
Philanthropic League; M. Roberta Townsend, Di-
rector, Department of the Handicapped, Brooklyn
Bureau of Social Service; and Mary F. Quirk,
District Representative of the National Recreation
Association. (See “The Handicapped Play, Too”
on page 37 of this issue of RECREATION.——Ed.)

15

“TELL ME A STORY!”

A few pointers from a storytelling manual pre-
pared for the San Francisco Recreation Depart-
ment by Josephine Gardner, president of the west-

ern division of the National Story League.

HERE IS NO surer way to make children happy
Tthan to tell them a story. This goes for all
ages, for everyone retains, to some degree, the de-
light of escape to wonderland. We have proved
this, time and again, in San Francisco, and we
want to share with other storytellers some of our
experience in this ancient art—which might well
be called the great-great-grandfather of all recrea-
tion activities.

\Ve feel that stories contribute a special quality
to life because of their universal appeal. Telling
them well is an art that occupies the full time of
professional storytellers. Not all of us can be, or
want to be, professional storytellers, but any of us
can become good craftsmen by expending a little
time and thought in learning the rudiments of the
oldest folk art of all. Although no one ever be-
came a real storyteller in five easy lessons, there
are some things we can do to improve our presen-
tation of stories. \Ve can bring joy and warmth
into the lives of our hearers with every telling, no
matter how falterineg we begin. W” e can add
wonder and interest to the everyday world by re—
leasing the magic of imagination which is dormant
in everyone. \Vhat greater gift is there than a
well-developed imagination?

Storytelling provides for mutual participation
on the part of both the storyteller and the audi—
ence. There are stories for every possible situa~
tion, and situations for every story. \Vhether it be
the adventures of an enchanted princess or a na-
ture tale about beetles, the quality of wonder will
make the tale stay with the hearer and give him a
joy unlike anything else. Stories will fit into a
small circle around a campfire, on the playground,
a group taking a nature walk, or a basketball
team’s rest period after a hard work-out. Suit the
tale to the teller and the situation, and there you
have storytelling—a useful tool that is ready to the
hand at all times.

16

Much has been written about the art of story-
telling. Any library will provide a bibliography
as long as you please. But there are a few points
we can discuss in the light of our experience here
in San Francisco, where we use storytelling so
often. They are things which we have learned in
the field of action, and they may prove interesting
and helpful to our fellow storytellers.

In selecting a story to tell, find one that appeals
to you, because no one can tell a story that he
doesn’t enjoy himself. Learn it well. Saturate
yourself with the tale so that you live it while you
are telling it. How does one learn a story? \Ve
give you a choice of two methods. Either memo-
rize it word for word, or learn to tell it in your
own words. preserving the character and flavor of
the original.

The latter method is the one we use most of the
time, but there are some stories which must be
learned verbatim. Kipling’s “Just So Stories,”
for instance, are much more effective as he wrote
them than we could make them, so why gild the
lily? On the other hand, your own version of
“Cinderella” will be good if you have made it
yours by reading it several times until the continu-
ity is clear in your mind.

This leads us directly to a question which is
always asked: “\Vhy do we tell stories in prefer-
ence to reading them P” A “told” story is more
effective than a “read” story because it fulfills a
basic human need—~the desire for attention. When
a group feels that they have the undivided atten—
tion of the storyteller, when there is no book to
interfere, rapport is established at once. However,
there are times when it is entirely satisfactory to
read aloud. For two or three children who can
gather around and “see the pictures," reading is
very good. For a larger group, if properly done,
it can be satisfactory. The trick is this: learn to
read ahead. Train yourself to pick up whole

RECREATION

Storytelling is the oldest folk art of
all. It releases the magic of imagi-
nation which is present in everyone.

phrases at one downward glance so
that you can look up at your audi-
ence and speak directly to them.
This technique requires practice in

front of a mirror before trying it in public, but it is'

worth the trouble. When time does not permit the
full preparation for telling a story, surely a well-
read story can serve.

We have been asked why we tell stories. Pri—
marily, we do it for entertainment. If, in the proc-
ess, we succeed in teaching something, no harm is
done. But never pound home a moral or a lesson.
When the story contains a lesson, tell it well and
allow the moral to emerge of itself.

In regard to the technique of storytelling, we
have worked out a few pointers for ourselves.
When we talk of this we really mean the art of
concealing technique so that the story seems to be
the teller’s own; so that she seems to be making
it up as she goes along. Everyone is a storyteller
at times. How often have we recounted an expe-
rience to a group of friends, telling them about a
“perfectly darling thing that Junior did yester-
day”? The difference between that and standing
up in front of a group to tell a story is what we
mean when we talk about technique. When you
know your story thoroughly, the words will come
to you.

The first question a beginner asks is, “How
does one learn a story?” We recommend this
method: When you have found a story you like
(and you may read twenty before you find one),
read it several times. First read it for a plot, and
learn the sequence of events until you have a
mental moving picture of the whole story. Next,
read it with an eye for non-essentials, such as long
descriptions. Very often these can be condensed,
or even eliminated, without hurting the tale. Then
it is time to select the characters who are essential.
Be careful to use only as many as are absolutely

APRIL 1949

 

necessary. For a final touch, read it again to fix
in your mind any characteristic phrases in the
author’s style which are part of the atmosphere.
Then tell it to yourself, or to anyone who will
listen.

We find it very helpful to work in front of a
mirror. After the first shock, a full view of your—
self will teach you much. Observe how you stand,
what you do with your hands. Watch your mouth
—are your lips really moving? Without being too
self-conscious, make a few faces at yourself to
loosen up the muscles around your mouth. A
flexible mouth will assure you’re being heard. And
what is the use in preparing a story that is not
going to be heard?

Storytellers, of all people, are surely conscious
of their diaphragms. As Ruth Sawyer says, “No
convincing sound ever came out of a human being
unless it was first bounced off a diaphragm.”
Breath can be controlled, and when it is well-con—
trolled your voice will be heard and enjoyed. By
varying pitch and speed, a storyteller can whip an
audience into breathless suspense or lull them into
complete quiescence. With a change of tone, using
a slight variation for each character, a storyteller
can eliminate the “he said” and “she said” phrases
that impede the progress of a tale.

Try this before your mirror: “Off with him, to
the darkest dungeon l” Undoubtedly, the book will
add, “cried the King, angrily.” Can you make the
King cry angrily, without saying that he is angry?
With a little practice you can; and you can make
the princess plead for mercy on behalf of whoever
was condemned to the dungeon without ever say-
ing “she said.” The human voice is a flexible and
beautiful instrument capable of doing much more

17

than we usually ask it to do.

\Ve do not mean to convey the impression that
storytelling is anything like dramatic reading.
What was once called elocution (with gestures)
has no place in storytelling. A well-told story is a
complete drama in miniature, but the emphasis is
on the tale, not the teller. Gestures that come of
themselves are the proper adornment of a story.
\Vhen they are studied or forced they can ruin it.
If you are one who “talks with the hands,” your
gestures will be appropriate. If you are not, don’t
worry about it. Lose yourself in your story, keep
your hands out of your pockets, and the gestures
will take care of themselves.

Under ideal 'conditions, storytelling is a very in-
timate thing. Perhaps the perfect group will num-
ber thirty persons, but this is variable. With a
small group it is possible to build a tale slowly,
filling in many details, and maintaining an atmos-
phere of wonder. However, it is possible to tell a
story to hundreds of people, although this will
require some sacrifice. The great difference is in
emphasis. \Vith a large audience, there can be no
gradual unfolding of a tale—the storyteller must
keep the action fast.

Should the audience be of mixed ages, aim at the
older members first. A small child will listen to
a story which he cannot understand more patiently
than a fourteen-year-old will listen to a story that
is suitable for a small child. Folk tales come into
their own with mixed groups-everyone loves them.

Don’t be afraid to talk about giants. Remember
that we are giants to very small children. Our
everyday tables and chairs are gigantic to them.

Don’t hesitate to use magic. Little children live
in a magic world. Isn’t radio magic? A small boy
once asked us “to make the man in the box sing”
when he wanted a record played. Children are
perfectly at home in a make-believe world. There
is no danger that they will grow up to be practical
liars if they have fairytales in their early years.
Don’t worry, they know the difference between
what is real and what is make-believe. \Ve have
it in our power to develop imagination in children.
Surely, we cannot deny this gift to them.

\Vhen children ask for a “spooky” story they do
not use the same connotation that adults do. A
really wicked witch (who gets her come-uppance
in the end), or a satisfactory giant (perhaps with
two heads), or a convincing dragon will give them
the desired thrill. Of all the thousands of children
who have heard our stories, we have had only one
complaint of “bad dreams,” and we are inclined to
think that that particular child would have had
nightmares, anyway.

18

There are many excellent books to aid the story—
teller, and following is a short list of them. But
one of the great joys in the life of a storyteller
lies in the search for material. This hunt will take
you down many different paths and will open
vistas, the like of which you have never dreamed.
“Once upon a time” is the password into a new
world where “they all lived happily ever after.”

Books Used by the Golden Gate Story League

‘
0

Title and Author Publisher
The \Vay of a Storyteller—Ruth Sawyer . . . . . . . . .Viking
The Art of the Storyteller—Marie Shedlock. . . .Appleton
Reading \Vith Children—Anne Eaton . . . . . . . . . . . .Viking
The Rocky Road to Dublin—

Seumas Macmanus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Macmillan

Bold Blades of Donegal—Seumas Macmanus. .Macmillan
The \Vell o’ the \Vorld’s End—

Seumas Macmanus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Macmillan
Folk Tales of all Nations—F. H. Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . .Tudor
Told Under the Magic Umbrella—

Association for Childhood Education . . . . . “Macmillan
Told Under the Green Umbrella—

Association for Childhood Education . . . . . . .Macmillan
Told Under the Stars and Stripes-—

Association for Childhood Education . . . . . . .Macmillan

Blue Fairy Book—Andrew Lang (all colors). .Longmans
East of the Sun and \Vest of the Moon—
The D’Aulaires . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Viking
Treasures Long Hidden—Chrisman
Tales of Laughter—\Viggm and Smith
Tales of \Vonder—\Viggin and Smith -
Irish Fairy Tales—James Stephens
Irish Fairy and Folk Tales—\Villiam B. Yeats
French Fairy Tales—Charles Perrault
French Fairy Tales (sources only)—

Countess D'Aulnoy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David McKay
Italian Fairy Tales—Lilla E. Romano. . . . .David McKay
Roumanian Fairy Tales—HM. Gaster . . . . . . .David McKay

The \Vonder Clock—Howard Pyle . . . . . . . . . . . . .Harpers

Pepper and Salt—Howard Pyle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Harpers

Mythology—Edith Hamilton . . . . . . . . . . . . .Little, Brown

Classic Myths—Gayle}: . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ginn and Company
Age of F able—Bullfinch

The Odyssey of Homer—Palmer . . . . . .Houghton, Miftlin
Fables—Aesop

F airytales —Grimm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pantheon
F air_vtales-—Anderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oxford
01’ Paul—Glen Rounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Holiday House

Til EulenspiegeI—Moritz Jagendorf
Giants and \Vitches and a Dragon or Two—

Phyllis F enner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Knopf
Time to Laugh—Phyllis Fenner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Knopf
Tales of King Arthur—U. \Valdo Cutler . . . . . . . .Crowell

Story Hour F avorites———\Vilhelmina Harper . . . . .Appleton

Ghosts and Goblins—“’ilhelmina Harper. . . .E. P. Dutton
Merry Christmas to You——
\Vilhelmina Harper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .E. P. Dutton

(Storytelling is one of the most popular play-
ground activities. In addition to the regular “story
hour,” it should be a part of every activity. See
“Storytelling”—RECREATION, March 1948. Ed.)

 

RECREATION

Storytellers of the Nation

ECRETLY, LOTS OF people long to be good story-
S tellers. Yet, strangely enough, only a small
percentage ever make an attempt to fulfill this
natural urge.

In this respect, women are more venturesome
than men, according to Polly McGuire, well-
known San Francisco storyteller; although men,
once they jump the first hurdle, become ardent
enthusiasts and exceptionally entertaining story-
tellers. The National Story League, of which Mrs.
McGuire was president for the past two years,
encourages men to join the ranks of proponents
of this ancient art. Present masculine members
find enjoyment and a satisfaction which they en-
thusiastically invite others to share.

Mrs. McGuire predicts a great future for story-
telling, and feels that television will aid in the bet-
ter appreciation of good storytelling, now in evi-
dence with respect to the radio story program.

Despite the fact that the Story League is a
national organization, with branches throughout
the United States, it is still in its infancy. With
everyone a potential storyteller, and requests for

storytellers continually streaming in from hospi-_

tals, centers for the blind, school and church
groups, playgrounds and centers, orphanages and
clubs—to mention just a small number—the ranks
of the League increase steadily each year.

This organization originated forty-five years ago
on the lawn of the University of Tennessee. A
group of teachers, who met twice weekly on the
campus after summer-school hours for twilight
storytelling, found such pleasure and relaxation at
these gatherings, that they determined to form a
permanent organization for storytellers. Thus, in
1903, the National Story League was formed.

Many who join the League never tell stories
themselves but, nevertheless, contribute an impor-
tant part to the organization. These members as-
sist in collecting material and research data for

M rs. Hutchinson is editor of the San Francisco Recrea-
tion Bulletin, a publication of the Recreation Department.

APRIL 1949

Louise Hutchinson

 

Chef George Mardikian, of San Francisco’s famous
Omar Khayyam’s, serves at National Story League
Convention. Ladies, left to right: Mrs. Dovie Insall,
editor, “Story Art”; Mrs. McGuire, Miss Amy Deeter.

others. Collection of regional stories, which are
not now available, is one of the League’s objec-
tives. It is encouraging all its affiliates to make
a special effort to gather stories of their particular
locale.

Any group of ten or more interested persons
who wish to organize a branch of the League may
apply for a charter to the national organizer, Miss
Amy Deeter, 2040 Market Street, San Francisco,
California, or to Miss Ruby Crumm, present na-
tional president, 2000 Union Avenue, Altoona,
Pennsylvania. Membership includes a bi-monthly
subscription to Story Art magazine.

Storytelling in San Francisco

In San Francisco, the Recreation Department
has had an official storyteller since 1935, and Mrs.
McGuire was the first of these. She early became.

19

 

aware of the vast field which a local story league
might cover, and an inquiry to the National Rec-
reation Association brought her in touch with the
National Story League. In February, 1938, the
Golden Gate Story League of San Francisco was
organized as a branch of the national group. a

The Recreation Department has sponsored the
Golden Gate League since its inception, and League
members c00perate closely with the department in
assisting with the story hours at recreation centers
and on playgrounds. A summer storytelling picnic
and a Christmas story program are two annual
activities which the League holds for the children.

It is also doing considerable research to assist
with the United Nations educational, scientific and
cultural organization plan of the department. By
teaching children the songs, dances and hand-
crafts of other countries, a better understanding
of the people and their customs is brought about.
For the first three months, League members told
stories of Norway. At the present time, a different
storyteller relates tales of Italy each week—its
history, music, art and folk lore.

Gatherings of the Golden Gate Story League
usually feature a timely theme about which stories
are told. During 1948, instead of the usual
monthly meetings, League members enjoyed a
story evening with church groups of various de-
nominations. Their anniversary celebrations are
held among various national groups.

These programs are open to the public, as are
the storytelling courses conducted by Mrs. Mc-
Guire and Josephine Gardner—western division
president—assisted by League members. Student
volunteers from these classes are given a regular
schedule for future storytelling assignments.

In San Francisco storytelling is coming into its
own, and many of the League’s members are cash—

20

Over 700 children have attended the annual
Story Play Festival at Sigmund Stern Grove.
Audience is spellbound during show, finds
excitement in hunt for storybook characters.

ing in with professional engagements to prove that
a hobby may be a profitable as well as a creative
outlet. The San Francisco Recreation Department
Story Hour, over radio station KFRC, recently
received a high rating from the Radio Listening
Committee of the San Francisco Bay Branch,
American Association of University Women,
which recommended the program for family lis—
tening. This is further proof of the popularity of
the straight story program without use of props.

As playground director for the department for
many years, Mrs. McGuire always found an eager
audience clamoring for stories. She soon became
a wandering storyteller who went from play-
ground to playground during the summer months.
\Vearing a costume in keeping with the stories she
told, she became known as the gypsy storyteller.
An Indian costume was used for the story of
“Coyote and the Stars”; that of a cow girl for
«“The Adventures of Pecos Bill”; a clown suit for
“The Show Must Go On”; and so on.

Storytelling, of course, is an integral part of
recreation at every playground in San Francisco.
After the story hour, the children usually enjoy
acting out the story they have just heard. Younga
sters who have the advantage of the story hour
and experience in story plays usually take up
puppetry and dramatics in the playground pro-
gram more readily than do those who have never
had similar experience.

A direct outgrowth of the story hour, an annual
story play festival, is held in San Francisco at the
end of the summer vacation. Children up to the
age of twelve compete for prizes by dramatizing
stories without benefit of script or props. The
weaving of a story or central theme throughout
entertainments always provides an added interest,
for children love to follow the thread of a story.

RECREATION

 

HAT YOUNGSTER WHO wants to do the catch—
Ting whenever baseball is on the playground
program may be a future Bill Dickey some day.
Many of the country’s favorite sports heroes first
learned how to slide to second and tag a home run
at their neighborhood playgrounds. Of course, this
doesn’t mean that it’s been just one jump to the
big league for them. There have been many steps
in-between; many years of learning, training, wait-
ing and hoping. But, without a doubt, athletic ac-
tivities, under the supervision of trained recreation
leaders, are helping to develop more and better
sportsmen.

Who hasn’t heard of that great Yankee, Joe
DiMaggio? Joltin’ Joe is a product of North
Beach Playground in San Francisco, along with
Ann Curtis, champion swimmer, and Fred Apos-
toli, prizefighter. Baseball players Joe Cronin and
Lefty O’Doul ; outstanding Helen Wills Moody
and Alice Marble, of tennis fame; diver Helen
Crlenkovich Morgan; basketball stars Hank Lui-
setti and Howard Dallmar also played on the city’s
playgrounds.

Lincoln, Nebraska, likes to recall that Bernie
Masterson, football coach at the University of
Nebraska; George Sauer, football coach at the
University of Kansas; and Paul Amen, baseball
coach at West Point are among their former play-
ground regulars.

Valentine Muscato, a Concord, Massachusetts,
lad was recently chosen the outstanding Italian
athlete in New England for his fine track record.
He won the national 440 yard run in New York
City during the 1947 indoor season, and the 600
yard run in his state meet-Tin record time. In
fact, he won the latter event in all major meets
throughout New England. '

Jack Dempsey is a product of Provo, Utah’s

APRIL 1949

League of Champions

€\. Products of Our
Playgrounds

playgrounds, and so is Alma “Bud” Shields, na—
tional collegiate swimming champion, around 1928.

In that same year and the next, a youngster
whose interests were concentrated in football be-
came known at the Wines Field Playground in
Ann Arbor, Michigan. Bob Westfall played foot-
ball for his high school and then later on for the
University of Michigan. In his senior year there,
he was selected as an All—American and elected
captain of his college team. Upon graduation, he
signed up with the Detroit Lions to play profes—
sional football. _

Sometimes, a boy or girl who has excelled in
one sport on the playground will suddenly discover
the ability to shine in other activities as well. For
example, Frank Reagan, well-known member of
the New York Giants football team and All-
American at Penn, was catcher on the midget

.baseball championship team that won the city title

in 1933 for the East Germantown Recreation
Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He also
caught for the junior team that won the city cham—
pionship at Shibe Park in 1935.

Marion Twinning, who later became national
champion in the weight and basketball throws, and
a member of the Philadelphia Turners Gymnastic
and Track and Field Teams, was an all-around
athlete at the same center from 1932 to 1937.

Another Philadelphia success story is that of
John (Jackie) Sullivan, who received his training
and experience at the Kensington Recreation Cen-
ter from the time he was knee-high. He played
midget soccer and junior soccer there for four
years, and in 1941-42 played on the junior team
that won the National Junior Cup Championship
of the United States. At the age of sixteen, Jackie
became a semi-pro, playing with the Kensington
Blue Bells in the first division of the Philadelphia

21

League. He did so well that, the following year,
he became a professional and joined the Philadel-
phia Nationals in the American Professional Soc-
cer League.

The roll call for sports celebrities who received
their early training on public playgrounds can go
on and on. Los Angeles, California, mentions Bob
Muesel, Jerry Priddy (of the Washington Sena-
tors), Mickey Owen, Joe (Flash) Gordon, Roy
Partee, among its many successful baseball play-
ers; Bobbie Riggs, Ellsworth Vines and Pauline
Betz, in tennis; Dr. Sammy Lee, Buster Crabbe
and the later Georgia Coleman among the swim-
mers and divers; and under motion picture stars,
the Department of Playground and Recreation
points with pride to Esther Williams, Alan Ladd,
Judy Garland, Mickey Rooney, Douglas Fair-
banks, Jr. and Noah Beery, Jr.

Pasadena, California, also has many memories
of champions. In baseball, there’s Jackie Robin—
son, who needs no introduction to Brooklyn
Dodger fans; Les O’Gara, basketball star who
played in the Denver National AAU tournament;
Carol Fletcher Metter, national diving champion
in 1924 and a member of the United States Olym-
pic team; Olympic diving chanpion Dorothy Poyn-
ton Tueber who, in 1928, at the age of thirteen,
was the youngest member of the Olympic squad
and in 1936, at Berlin, won the high platform
world title; Ellsworth Vines, one of the greatest
tennis players and now a persistent golfer; Dave
Freeman of badminton fame; Mack Robinson,
brother of Jackie, who took second to Jesse Owens
in the 1936 Berlin Olympics; William Holden,
Gloria Grahame and Jean Parker of motion pic-
ture fame. Joan Leslie, another Hollywood attrac-

tion, used to practice cartwheels, fiip-inps and.

tumbling acts on the Ford Field Playground in
Highland Park, Michigan.

Particularly impressive is the number of base-
ball stars who have made good. Charles Har-
graves, who caught for the Dodgers and then for
Pittsburgh, and George Case, a member of the
Washington Senators and leader in the bases
stolen division, are well-remembered in Trenton,

New Jersey. Joe Krakauskas, another VVashing- _

ton Senator player, comes from Hamilton, Canada.
Bobby Brown, third baseman for the New York
Yankees, attended the local playground in Maple-
wood, New Jersey. From Long Beach, California,
came Bob Lemon, pitcher with the Cleveland In-
dians; Vernon Stephens, shortstop, St. Louis
Browns; Johnny Lindell of the New York Yan-
kees and originally from Ontario, California. From
Buffalo, New York, came Sibi Sisti and Warren

22

Spahn of the Boston Braves; Emerson Dickman
and Frank Pytlak of the Boston Red Sox. Peewee
Reese, another name in baseball’s Hall of Fame,
was in the 1930-31 midget league on the play-
ground in Louisville, Kentucky. Ted Williams,
the great hero of the Boston Red Sox and ace
batter, used to hit a few balls on the playgrounds
in San Diego, California. Two National Leaguers,
Ralph Branca, pitcher for the Brooklyn Dodgers,
and Anton Karl of the Boston Braves, played for

the Midget Baseball Leagues in Mount Vernon,
New York. '

Another graduate, Frank Carideo, one of the
most skilled kickers in football, was a playground
director from 1925-27. At Notre Dame in 1929
and 1930, he was selected All-American quarter-
back, and in 1932 became head football coach at
the University of Missouri, then coach at Missis—
sippi State, and finally coach at Iowa State.

And remember Cadet Arnold Tucker of West
Point? The Seminole School Playground in
Tampa, Florida, was just as familiar territory to
him as the football fields which earned him the
coveted Sullivan award in 1946 for his magnificent
ability and sportsmanship.

Our playgrounds can certainly be proud of such
representation in the athletic field. It proves that
not only are they taking advantage of their unique
opportunity to cultivate individual capacities, but
their sports and athletic programs are primarily
planned to provide an opportunity for all to enjoy
active participation and develop those qualities of
the mind and spirit which make for good Ameri-
can citizenship.

Street Play Causes Accidents

AcCORDING TO THE N ew York Times of January
second, the Greater New York Safety Council
reported recently that the major cause of winter
traffic accidents to children in New York City is
playing in the street.

In analyzing reports filed with the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles, the Council said that 518 young-
sters were hit by automobiles when at play in the
road; and that crossing between intersections re-
sulted in injury to 321. Walking from behind a
parked car caused injuries to 156 youngsters and
146 were hurt crossing against traffic lights. In
urging parents, children and motorists to try to
reduce the seasonal dangers, the Council noted
that one-third of the fatalities and forty per cent of
reportable injuries occurred among street-playing
children under fifteen years of age.

RECREATION

 

APRIL 1949

Playgrounds and Recreation Centers
Serve Girls and Women

through the KATHERINE BARKER MEMORIAL fund

EARLY-TWO-SCORE years ago, a young Indiana mother died. She had lived a rich and
full life. A teacher before her marriage, she knew the problems of boys and girls.
Recognizing these problems as symptoms of deeper ills, she gave thoughtful study to the
social conditions responsible and did everything she could to improve them. As a young
matron she gave generously of herself and of her time in making her home town a better
and happier place for those who lived there. Music, beauty, the cultural arts, all were
close to her heart. Through her influence as worker in many civic enterprises, she shared
with her townsfolk precious gifts in these fields which today still give them joy and sat—
isfaction. Yet, with all her interest and activity in civic affairs, she had time for compan-
ionship with, and sympathetic understanding of, her young daughter.

Later that daughter became interested in the work and ideals of the National Recrea—
tion Association. Impressed by the broad services of the Association, she studied some of
the problems of the recreation movement. One which particularly challenged her was
the .fact that often the recreation needs of girls and women were overlooked or slighted
in the development of recreation programs. Here was a situation that sorely needed
attention. Here was the kind of a problem which would have challenged her mother.

And thus it came about that Mrs. Charles V. Hickox started a fund in 1928 in

memory of her mother, Katherine FitzGerald Barker, to be known as the Katherine F.
Barker Memorial Fund. The National Recreation
.Association, on whose board Mrs. Hickox has
served for more than twenty years, has been able,
through this fund, to maintain a recreation field
secretary for women and girls. Emphasizing
everywhere the importance of providing ample
summer playground activity and other seasonal
reCreation opportunity for girls and women, the
work of the field secretary is a living memorial to
Mrs. Barker, ever bringing an added measure of

richness and joy into the lives of girls and women.

Catherine B. Hickox, who established the
fund as a living memorial to her mother.

23

 

UNLASHING TARPAULIN. Theatre pieces and iiat

scenery are packed on trailer, covered, tied securely.

RINCES AND PRINCESSES, Kings and Queens,
Pand all the enchanting things which are a part
of the fascination of the Land of Make-Believe,
have long been a source of exciting entertainment
to the young child. Equally as thrilling is the
closed curtain, the dim house lights, and the babble
of expectation which runs through the audience
before the curtain rises. Put these together—sub—
stituting sunshine for lights, green grass for seats
—and you have Portland, Maine’s unique Trailer
Theatre.

This is a joint summer activity‘of the Parks
and Recreation Departments of the Cities of Port-
land and South Portland, and the Children’s Thea-
tre of Portland. The idea of originating a mobile
theatre was first conceived in the Fall of 1943.
The Portland Parks and Recreation Department,
faced with the wartime problem of juvenile delin-
quency, turned to an established agency, the Chil—
dren’s Theatre, to help them solve the deficient
dramatics facilities on local playgrounds. Out of
this meeting evolved the idea of a collapsible stage
which could be transported easily from one play-
ground to another.

The Recreation Department, in addition to pro—
viding the trailer itself, took responsibility for
scheduling the productions and assembling the
audience in the city playgrounds. The technical
staff of the Children’s Theatre, with the help of a
National Children’s Theatre expert and a profes-
sional contra’ctor, combined ideas and designed and

.Martha Saule, a typical volunteer in the Children’s
Trailer Theatre, speaks from actual personal experience.
She is typical in that, although she had had little actual
experience in dramatics beforehand, she served in many
capacities during the summer, namely as prop chairman
and assistant stage manager in the morning play, and in
the title role of Rumpelstiltskin in the afternoon play.

24

SETTING FORESTAGE. This is being held steady

for bolting to the trailer by two people underneath.

A Children’i

In Portland, Blaine

built a workable theatre out of forty-eight pieces
of pressed wood similar to Masonite. It is com-
pletely demountable, and is put together with iron
bolts. After one session of instruction with the
contractor, the workers perfected their own proc-
ess of assembling and demounting, and were then
able to unload the trailer, set up the theatre in an
hour, and to take it down and load it in forty-five
minutes. After the personnel director of the Chil-
dren’s Theatre had gotten in touch with the dra—
matics teachers in the four high schools and one
private school, a company of boys and girls——
ranging in age level from sophomores in high
school to seniors in college—was selected to help
with the project.

The summer of 1944, therefore, marked the
successful start of the Trailer Theatre. The entire
work of the program was done by these volunteers,
a paid director and a few adult volunteers from
the Children’s Theatre. Working five days a week,
after an intensive six weeks’ rehearsal schedule,
they presented a two—play repertory of approxi-
mately twenty performances.

During the summer of 1948, forty volunteers

gave twenty-seven shows, playing to over 20,000
children during the months of July and August.

RECREATION

 

PROSCENIUM. The anxious moment has passed and

arch meets wings. Ceiling pieces are muslin flats.

Trailer Theatre

Martha Soule

This is an increase in attendance of more than
I 7,000 from the audience of 3,299 during that first
summer.

Now internationally famous, blueprints of this
theatre are being used to duplicate this special
activity in Pittsfield, Massachusetts; Hammond,
Indiana; and Stockholm, Sweden. Descriptive
pictures of the Trailer Theatre and the Portland’s
Children’s Theatre, one of the five top ranking
children’s theatres in the United States, appear
in a permanent theatre file entitled “The History
of the American Theatre,” in the New York Pub-
lic Library.

Because Portland is a relatively small city, in a
location difficult to reach, its children do not have
the opportunity to enjoy music, the theatre and
other fine arts—except that presented to them in
the schools, through touring concerts, or by visit-
ing artists. Naturally, the local movie house, with
its artificial heroes and heroines and false concep-
tion of true values, stands foremost in their minds
as entertainment. Thus, when the Trailer Thea—
tre moves into their neighborhood park or play-
ground for a whole day, and gives them an oppor-
tunity to see Rumpelstiltskin help set up the
theatre, put on his nose, strap on his humpback,

APRIL 1949

AUDIENCE WAITS. A non-technical volunteer job is

entertaining small fry brought by brother or sister.

and tear his hair in rage when. the queen guesses
his name, they feel as though they have spent a
day in an entirely different world.

The child who has never curled up in his moth-
er’s lap to hear legends and fairy tales will tear
up the grass in sheer exuberance when Prince
Charming discovers that the dirty cinder-wench,
Cinderella, is really the beautiful maiden in glass
slippers with whom he danced the night before.
Likewise, it is equally as rewarding to see the
child, who thinks of the theatre in terms of “dead-
end kids,” Frankenstein and bloody Westerns, go
home starry-eyed to re-enact his favorite scenes
over and over to his friends and family. Some-
times the children follow the Trailer Theatre from
place to place, seeing the plays again and again,
until they know the lines by heart and the actors
by name. '

Headquarters for the Trailer Theatre are in
what we call “The Workshop,” the garage of one
of Portland’s old city houses. Here we hold our
rehearsals, store our equipment, and put the trailer
to bed at night. “We” are the volunteers—college
and high school’ students interested in the theatre
and in participating in a worthwhile community
project. We meet in “The Workshop” in the late
Spring to hold tryouts for the two productions
which will be given during the coming season.
Everyone is given an opportunity to try out for a
part. The seasoned actor is not necessarily given
any preference over the willing volunteer with no
experience.

Acting, however, is only one phase of the volun-
teers’ work. There are costumes to make, scenery
to build, properties to collect, and many other odd
jobs which go into the staging of a production.

A day in the theatre begins at eight o’clock in
the morning with the delicate job of maneuvering

25

the trailer out of the too narrow doors of “The
\Vorkshop.” The trailer, whose floor makes up
three-fourths of the stage, carries the forty—eight
pieces of the theatre, the flat scenery, and the cur-
tains. All of this equipment is covered with a
waterproof tarpaulin loaned by the City Fire De-
partment. Once out on the street, the trailer is
picked up by a truck from the Park Department
and transported to the playground where we will
be playing that day. N ext, the big scenery is
loaded onto another truck, and the props, cos-
tumes, volunteers and their lunches are crowded
into waiting cars—and the show is on the road!

Arriving at the playground, we find that the
trailer has already attracted a group of inquisitive
children. They stand, shifting from one foot to
the other, fascination written across their faces, as
they watch our gaily painted theatre go up piece
by piece. \Vhile the scenery crew is busy with this
task, the “audience detail” (a crew of four or more
who see that the show runs smoothly from the
audience end) stakes out the rows with wooden
pins and clothesline. Using this system, we can
construct a seating plan capable of holding an au-
dience of either 150 or 2,000. One of our favorite
slogans in the theatre has to do with this job:
“Feet to fanny make a row.” \Vith more clothes-
line, the dressing rooms and make-up rooms are
constructed by roping off a square area in back of
the theatre. Here, too, the costume crew makes
use of nearby trees by stringing clothesline be-
tween them, on which the costumes can be hung.

\Ve have about fifteen minutes before curtain
time; and while Miss Clifford, our director, is
“getting the audience in the mood” with her fa-
mous talk on audience manners, the actors are
busy completing last minute make—up. Here I
might say that, even though our stage is small and
overcrowded at times, and our scenery often
merely suggestive because of limited space, noth—
ing is spared in the way of costumes and make-up.
The pumpkin actually rolls off the stage under the
sparkling wand of the Fairy Godmother, and Rum-
pelstiltskin spins real gold thread from straw right
before the children’s eyes.

Members of our audience are now arriving from
every direction and are eagerly awaiting the first
glimpse of Cinderella. An average audience also
contains at least four dogs, all of which acquit
themselves in usual canine fashion; and there is the
bicycle brigade in the back row, which constitutes
a major hazard at exciting moments in the play as
the bicycles are unconsciously inched forward with
subsequent mowing down of the children in front
of them.

26

The curtains open and the children gasp with
amazement at what they see before them. They
promptly forget where they are, and for an hour
or more live every moment of this favorite roman-
tic fairy tale. After the show, which usually means
after we have gotten rid of the last child who
practically sat in the cold cream jar while watch-
ing Cinderella take off her make-up, we relax, eat
our lunches, and start preparing for the afternoon
performance.

Our day finally ends when the trailer is down,
repacked, and back in “The \Vorkshop.” It is six

- o’clock. Some of us have missed our buses. Every-

one is tired, but we glow with inner satisfaction,
for we know that never before have these children
been to fairyland and that we are the ones who
took them there!

The Trailer Theatre maintains the highest pos-
sible standards in all of its performances and plays
to all children, regardless of economic background.
Special performances are given only when plays
are taken to children who could not otherwise at-
tend—those in the Children’s Hospital, for exam-
ple. In order to make it possible for every child in
the City of Portland to have an opportunity to see
the performances, there is no admission charge.
However, donations are accepted to help defray
expenses. The Board of Directors of the Chil—
dren’s Theatre, who are interested citizens in the
community, believe that the value of the children’s
program should never be sacrificed to insure a
profit.

Entertainment and a rich educational experience
are but two of the far-reaching contributions of
the Trailer Theatre. There is the valuable techni-
cal training and theatrical experience that we, as
volunteers, receive under the direction of Miss
Clifford, well-known for her outstanding work
with the Children’s Theatre, in return for. our
participation. (Miss Margaret Ellen Clifford and
the executive secretary hold the only two paying
positions on the theatre staff.) \Ve receive thor-
ough training in all phases of production, from the
construction of flats to the finer points of good
acting.

\Vhile working in various sections of the com-
munity, we have the opportunity of gaining in—
sight into some of our community’s most serious
problems. \Vhen visiting some of the wartime
housing projects, it seemed somewhat ironical to
see our cheerful little theatre standing amid the
drabness of some of these settlements.

During one of these times, there was a little boy
in our audience whom we named “Oliver Twist.”
He was about six years old, very thin and very

RECREATION

dirty, with huge brown eyes which seemed to take
up his entire face. He was dressed in a rough
piece of burlap, which was twisted around his
waist and fastened with a safety pin. I remember
seeing him after I had made my first entrance as
Rumpelstiltskin. His disgusted and quizzical look
seemed to say, “I know your nose ain’t real. You’re
only a girl, and I bet you can’t spin straw into
gold.” With the type of audience which is seeing
- a Trailer Theatre production for the first time,
this reception is very usual. It is this kind of audi-
ence which fires our imagination, makes us subject
our own personalities, and really live the part of
the character we are representing.

The next time I made an entrance, I crept across
the stage, sneaked up behind the miller’s daughter,
and so completely surprised her with my hrst
sneering line that she nearly dropped her baby in
sheer fright. Her reaction, of course, was genuine,
and from there on the show really began to roll.
“Oliver’s” eyes grew even larger-as I threatened
the queen. Unconsciously he edged his way nearer
and nearer toward the front of the theatre, until
he was almost sitting on the steps leading to the
stage. When the queen finally guessed my name,
he howled and screamed with such vigor and
pleasure that my lines were so completely drowned

out, no one could hear me.

In addition to this type of experience, a volun-
teer learns to work with people, to give and re-
ceive directions, and to develop a sense of respon—
sibility and cooperation. Everyone is working
toward a good performance, no matter how large
or how small their contribution.

Portland is proud to claim this mobile theatre,
and what it stands for, as its own. We wish that
more communities agreed with our belief that “a
cultural heritage is the right of all children, and
that it is the obligation of a community to open to
them all possible channels for creative experience.
The fact that children in quest of entertainment
become saturated with over-thrilling dramatics and
false heroics, and develop small conception of true
values, is caused by the restricted diet of material
provided for them by the radio, movies, and comic
books. To aid them in their search for new worlds
of adventure, laughter and beauty, to open up
horizons which will fire their imaginations and
stretch their minds beyond their own every-day
activities, are the objectives of the Children’s The-
atre of Portland.” Perhaps other like communities
will find in our experience a workable project
which can be adapted to their own situation and
facilities, and bring new adventures into program.

 

 

We Blushed . . . . .

Handbook and
BuyingGuide

edited by the publishers of
CAMPING MAGAZINE

_-—J

 

. . . this book is a "must." It contains
a vast amount of specific information

that is needed in the successful opera-
tion of a camp.

Reynold E. Carlson. president. ACA.
Order Now—$1.50 each, 2 for $2.00

If payment accompanies order, we pay postage

HOWARD P. GALLOWAY, Publisher
181 Chestnut Avenue Metuchen, N. J.

APRIL 1949

 

Dramatize Your
Playground!

 

CROW'S NEST, four all—steel
4l/z' climbing ladders and
2' x 2' weldwood platforms,
forming a climbing toy with
infinite play possibilitles. Easy

TEEPEE TOWER, four steel '7'
ladders and two weldwood plat—
forms 2' x 2' and 4' x 4', and
waterproof voltaflex tent form—
ing a round playhouse, tree
house, ookout tower. Shipped to assemble. Shipped express
express collect .............. .. $59.95 collect .................... .. $32.50

Write for Free Catalogue of Play Materials

CREATIVE PLAYTHINGS

7730 Forsythe Boulevard 867 Madison Avenue
ST. LOUIS 5, MO. NEW YORK 21, N..Y.

 

 

27

Unusual Equipment

PENDED SEWER PIPES, polished logs, low con-
U crete airplanes, concrete walls and concrete
boats are the equipment of five unusual play-
grounds in the James Weldon Johnson Houses,
New York City.

Scores of children living in the project scram-
ble over the concrete playthings every day, and
concoct imaginative games of every kind. The
“toys” are outgrowths of a series of experiments
by the staff of the City Housing Authority, which
built the project, to replace the usual swings and
slides. They found ordinary equipment inade-
quate, breakable and sometimes dangerous.

The first device built was a “dodger,” a low
concrete wall in the 'shape of a two—barred cross.
It had been tried out at the Red Hook project in
Brooklyn in 1942 by Alexander Moffatt, now chief
of the Authority’s temporary housing division.
Successfully used there by the children as an
imaginary fort, house or air—raid shelter, the
“dodger” was further developed on the play-
grounds of the Fort Green Houses in Brooklyn.

One “toy” used on the Johnson playgrounds is
called a “whatnot,” and consists of a series of steps
backed by a wall. Here the girls between six and
nine years of age play “jacks” and “house.” When
a large group of children assembles, the game is
likely to be changed to “subway rush,” played by
going away from the “whatnot” for a few moments
and then rushing back in a crowd.

The favorite game among the younger boys is
“Hi—yo Silver,” played on three-foot logs imbedded

 

A “whatnot” consists of stairs leading up to nowhere.

28

horizontally in concrete, raised about six inches
ofiC the ground. Large concrete sewer pipes, about
three feet in diameter, serve as rocket ships. One
pipe set on end, on blocks about a foot off the
ground, makes a good snow fort in the winter.

By far the most popular of the “toys” are the
ten-foot concrete boats and the concrete airplane,
which has a fifteen-foot wingspread. Children
playing on these can let their imagination take
them to China, or anywhere they wish to travel.
Some children find a pile of firmly anchored logs
a good place to play as artists, and draw pictures.
Younger children have a good time sliding through
the tipped-up sewer pipes.

James England, executive director of the New
York City Housing Authority, said that the idea
had been copied by playgrounds all over the coun-
try. “Full credit, though,” he added, “goes to Mr.
Moffatt, who built the original ‘dodger’.”

Mr. Moffatt praised the variations on his origi-
nal theme, and said that he was amazed with the
ingenuity of children in thinking up new games to
play. “To date there have been no serious acci-
dents, nor do we expect any,” he reported.

“The cost,” Mr. Moffatt said, “is not much more
than that of regular playground equipment. There
is, of course, no breakage or replacement prob-
lem.” He said he got his original idea from watch-
ing children play on piles of building materials,
and added that it has turned out to be more suc-
cessful and popular than he had anticipated.

Reprinted by permission of the New York Herald Tribune.

 

A “dodger,” or low wall, can be a house, a fort.

RECREATION

Added Attractions
Promise Adventure

Beth Wallace Yates

PENING DAY BROUGHT a big crowd to the

Sylacauga, Alabama, playground—and it’s
no wonder, because the neWSpapers and radio sta-
tions had been carrying stories about this event
for days. It was the name—Something Different
Every Hour—that had the children guessing.

The program was scheduled to begin at
four o’clock, and a huge clock was placed
on the playground with its hands set at
that time. The clock had been made
from a cardboard mattress carton. Its
face was painted on with India ink, and
its movable hands were attached with a
brad. At the bottom of the clock the names
of the events were thumb-tacked, one on top of
the other, so that they could be removed on the
specified hour.

The first event was a Peanut Hunt. Some teen-
agers, who felt that they were too old for play—
ground activities of this sort, hid the peanuts. On
the stroke of four, the search started. A small
white card was given to the winner, stating: “This
is to certify that was winner of the Pea-
nut Hunt, Memorial Playground, June 4, 1948.”

The playground leader then set the clock to five
o’clock and removed the Peanut Hunt card. Under
it was a sign reading Shoe Scramble. Promptly at
the appointed time, the children were seen gather—
ing in the middle of a grassy area and taking off
their shoes. They put these in a big pile and sat
around them in a circle. At a signal, the boys and
girls dashed in and looked for their shoes. The
first one to find both shoes, put them on, and
reach the leader, received a card to certify that he
was the winner.

The clock showed that six o’clock was the Magic
Hour, so the children followed a local amateur
magician to a wooded area on the playground

and sat spellbound while he pulled rings and or-
anges out of their ears.

At seven o’clock, the Band Concert started.
The children were not the only ones present for

APRIL 1849

 

 

this—the whole neighborhood came. During the
concert, the, playground leader announced the
schedule for the days to follow, and told the hours
the playground would be under supervision. She
also announced that each Friday evening would
be known as special event night, and two
movies (cartoons) would be shown in
addition to the planned event.
A PIGTAILS AND FRECKLES CONTEST
was the “somethin’ special” for the
first Friday night. Prizes were awarded
to the girls having the longest pigtails,
the shortest pigtails, and the funniest
ones. Judging was done by teen-agers in a
most scientific manner—the pigtails being care-
fully measured with rulers, and the judges going
into a private conference to compare notes before
pinning a cardboard doll with pigtails on each
winner. Badges were also pinned on the child with
the largest freckles, the reddest freckles, and the
“mostest freckles.”

A SPLASH PARTY was scheduled for the next
week. Even though the clouds looked threatening,
the children brought their swim suits, a lunch and
plenty of enthusiasm to the playground, where a
city bus was waiting to take them to the pool for
their free swims. They had been in the pool only
fifteen minutes when the rain came. After a scram-
ble for their clothes and lunches, they boarded the
bus which took them to the recreation building.
The game room was quickly turned into a picnic
room as the children Spread their lunches on the
floor and picnicked to tunes on the record player.

THE GUEss W HAT MARCH created much ex-
citement. One little boy made a long announce-
ment about it at Church School, much to the sur-
prise of the playground leader and the embarrass-
ment of his father, who was the minister. When
the hour of this special event came, the leader told

The author is Superintendent of Recreation,
C ity Recreation Department, Sylacauga, Alabama.

29

the children that they were to walk with her.
\Vhen she blew her whistle, they were to stop and
find—guess what? At the sound of the first whis-
tle, the children were surprised to find themselves
face to face with the town’s best storyteller, dressed
as a gypsy. After finishing a story, the gypsy bade
them good-bye, but said, “I’ll see you again before
the end of the march—and guess what?”

The next stop was to hear riddles. At the one
after that, the children were taught a new motion
song. Another short march brought them once
more to the gypsy storyteller, who had the simple
properties necessary to dramatize a story. After
“playing the story,” the children returned to the
center of the playground where mothers met them
with cookies for all.

An hour before the scheduled time, Indian
braves and squaws began gathering at the play-
ground for the “heap big” INDIAN Pow \Vow. The
children came in Indian costumes—and there was
every sort, from the elaborate one worn by a chief
to the simplest worn by a six-year-old warrior.
Each child brought an ear of corn. The leader
had built a fire under a black iron pot, and the
children dropped their corn in the pot, to cook
while they ran races and played games. After the
games, they sat around the fire and ate their corn.

A TALENT SHow, scheduled for the next week,
proved so popular that several others were held
during the summer. A small stage was made, and
the children practiced all week. Still, the talent
displayed was a surprise. There were vocal selec-
tions, readings, dances and instrumental music.
Many came in costume and some of the girls wore
evening dresses. Between talent shows, the stage
was used for a playhouse by both boys and girls.

THE HOBO HIKE was something to see—so
many children all dressed as hoboes! Each carried
a lunch—some in knapsacks on a stick, and some
in paper sacks. The hike started when the leader
showed them her stick with a knapsack fastened
to one end. At each block the leader threw this
into the air. \Vhen it fell, the children walked one
block in the direction in which the knapsack end
of the stick pointed. At the end of fifteen minutes,
they sat down wherever they were and ate their
lunches. Then they returned to the playground
for the movies.

A FASHION SHow AND TEA was the next spe-
cial event. Long before the hour, some of our
citizens were surprised to see children from three
years old and up stumbling along the sidewalk in
high-heeled shoes, long dresses and their mothers’
last year’s hats. At the playground, a narrator called
each child’s name as she slowly mounted the stage

30

and turned around for all to see. Although only
two little boys participated in this, there were
many who came to watch.

After the Fashion Show, some of the twelve-
year-olds served punch from a punch bowl placed

‘

on a table covered with a “lace” tablecloth. The
cloth had been made from a large piece of white
wrapping paper that had been folded and cut in
lacy designs.

In direct contrast to this event was tl‘le_COWBOY
ROUND-UP. A few Gene Autreys rode stick horses,
and most of them had on such heavy boots, belts
and pistols, they would have been a heavy load for
a real horse. They hunted for gold which was
candy, wrapped in tin foil; they ran three-legged
races, and finally gathered around a campfire
where a grown-up cowboy played his guitar and
sang western songs with them.

THE COMIC STRIP PARTY brought out all of the
funny paper characters from Snuffy Smith to
Denny Dimwit, who wore short pants, his father’s
coat and a paper sack, the end of which he had
twisted into a point, on his head. A “funny book”
was the prize given for the most original costume.

THE COSTUME PARADE was a natural since
every child in town had been in a pageant at the
end of school. The children were bedecked in all
sorts of costumes. There were dainty ballet danc-
ers, pilgrims, gypsies and witches, complete with
peaked hats and brooms.

The last special event of this season was a Com-
MUNITY PICNIC. Families brought their lunches
and picnicked in groups, a prize being awarded to
the largest family present, and also to the youngest
person present.

50 ended the summer! It was one of excite-
ment and enjoyment for the children, the parents
and the leader. The National Recreation Associa-
tion’s Playground Notebook supplied many of the
ideas for the special events. Ideas also were ob-
tained from conversation with the children and
from observation of their free play.

 

“Psychologists tell us that everyone has certain
fundamental needs. High on this list is the need
for adventure. The child will find it! Good or
bad, it is as necessary to him as food.”—Ho*zva-rd
Brauclrer.

RECREATION

Frances Ross Paley Memorial Fund

 

Frances Ross Poley

“A desire to provide playgrounds”

s A CHILD, Frances Ross Poley played on the green lawns of
her home in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania. Beauty was all
about her—towering trees, Howering shrubsminviting her to
play. Frances loved, too, the little Quaker School which she at-
tended, and though she worked hard, she found time to join
school activities and athletics.

It was when she went to Bryn Mawr College that she began
to plan to give of her overiiowing store of joyousness to the chil-
dren for whom no play plans had been made; and, remembering
her own privileged childhood, sought to give some measure of
the same opportunities to Conshohocken boys and girls. Her
father helped collect funds to provide a playground and equip—
ment, and activities were launched under the leadership of
Frances and her friends.

After her death, in 1918, a group of her friends collected a
fund of about $6,000 which was designated as the Frances Ross
Poley Memorial Fund—the income of which has been used, ever

since, to carry on the work which Frances started. Aside from personal grief, the most sad-
dening thought to those who have lost a loved one is that death has cut off his dreams, his
plans and the work which he might have given the world.

In 1926, the fund was turned over to the National Recreation Association, to be used to
carry out Frances Ross Poley’s original idea of providing playgrounds where there were none.
According to the agreement between the trustees of Frances Ross Poley and the Association,
the income from the fund has been used by the Association:

“First, for the support of the local work in the Borough of Conshohocken for a
period of not to exceed two years hereafter—

Second, to defray the expenses of field service by the National Recreation Associa-
tion for establishing a year-round recreation system in Conshohocken, and—

Third, thereafter said

income shall 'be applied annually to the expenses incurred by

the National Recreation Association in one or more communities in the United

States—”

To date, the twenty cities

1927, ’28, ’2'9—Conshohocken, Pennsylvania
l930—Litt1e Rock, Arkansas
l931—Bismarck, North Dakota

1932—Lincoln, Nebraska
1933—Greens'boro, North

1934—Summit, New Jersey and Phoenix, Arizona

1935—E1 Paso, Texas
1936—Akron, Ohio

l937—Delaware County, Pennsylvania
1938—Schenectady, New York

which have received the benefits of the fund are as follows:

1939—Athens, Georgia
1940—Norfolk, Virginia
1941—Montclair, New Jersey
1942—New Britain, Connecticut
l943—Ga1veston, Texas
1944—Winchester, Virginia
1945—Elkhart, Indiana
1946—Huntington Park, California

1947—Morganaty, Louisiana
1948—Auuburn, Maine

Carolina

A relative of Frances Ross Poley wrote the National Recreation Association, “It has been

a satisfaction to feel that, in a sense, Frances is still working for more playgrounds.”

APRIL 1949

31

     
     
   
   
    

Jul

ls)

WITH the stars of sports, modern features of construction in the equipment
they use are of the utmost importance. That’s why so many of them use and
recommend Wilson.

The famous Wilson Advisory Staff, whose members help design, test and
play Wilson equipment, is another reason why star players prefer Wilson.
Golf champions Sam Snead, Lloyd blangrum, Gene Sarazen, Patty Berg and
Babe Didrikson—tennis greats Jack Kramer, Don Budge, Bobby Riggs and
Alice Marble—diamond stars Ted Williams and Bob Feller—gridiromhead-
liners Johnny Lujack, Charley Trippi and Paul Christman are only a few of
this great stag of experts. Follow tbese stars— play Wilson—know you’re play-
ing the best.

WILSON SPOR'IING GOODS CO" CHICAGO

(A subsidiary of Wilson 8. Co., Inc.)
Branch offices in New York, San Francisco and other principal cities

 

RECREATION

Fun For Defense Ferees...

New Jersey NEW

“What 25 your community doing for t/aere yet/79g
mm? 250,000 will 50072 be drafted to serve in
our Army and Navy.”

Margaret Hickey

RS. WILLIAM GROBLER was still sitting before
her desk at eleven o’clock one November
night, back in 1917. From time to time she stared
off into space, then turned back to the paper before

her and wrote hurriedly. It was three hours later!
that she finally completed a letter of several pages,_

sealed it in a large envelope, and addressed it to
the War Department.

Maie Grobler lived in Moorestown, New Jersey,
then, as she does today. Since herphome was only
a few miles from Camp Dix, she saw a good deal
of the thousands of young men who had just been
called into the service of their country. She and
her husband worried about the sort of things these
young men turned to in off-duty hours. They saw
them lounging idly about in the nearby towns or
hanging around p001 halls and cheap restaurants.
Mrs. Grobler believed that, if war must be, then
civilians should do their best to keep these young
men in uniform in touch with the inHuences which
they were missing in their own homes. Why
couldn’t the women of nearby communities, also
interested in the welfare of such young men, pro-
vide a meeting place with homelike activities for
them?

That was the way the highly successful Coni-
munity Center, Incorporated, at Camp Dix, New
Jersey, was begun. The Army agreed with Mrs.
Grobler. They notified her that she had their ap-
proval to begin just such a service. It has kept
the men at Dix in touch with home influences—
beginning in 1917, again in 1940, and is ready to
do so whenever the Army calls. Right now the

Min Hickey it editor of the Journal’r Prtblie Af-
fair: Department, intererted in community projectr.

*Reprinted by special permission from the Ladies’ Home Journal.
Coyyrtght 1949. the CUI’US Publishing Company.

APRIL 1949

Q
r

line building occupied during World War II is
operated by Army Special Services.

The G. I.’s through the years have invariably
made the' same comment about the Community
Center. Settling down in one of the comfortable
chairs drawn before the big fireplace in the lounge,
you would hear one say, “Gee, this place sure feels
like home.” Or: “I’ve been in Bragg and Bland-
ing (or Scott or Devens or Indiantown) and I
never saw a place like this.” They went for the
steaming hot cups of coffee and platters full of
home-baked cookies, always available at the snack
bar. .

The Center functioned so well during \Vorld
\Var I that it was one of the first to bereactivated

 

Having worked hard all day, this trainee stands at
the bus stop in \Vrightstown wondering what to do.
Community service had the answer during the war.

33

when America’s vast program of preparedness got
underway in 1940. Mrs. Grobler was called back
to serve again, too. A grandmother by this time,
she was as keenly interested in making the Center
work as she had been twenty-three years before.
She felt that she was really a part of Dix—from
the early days when the fort was plain Camp Dix,
training ground for thousands of Eastern seaboard
soldiers who later made up the vanguard of our
first A. E. F., to the time when Camp Dix became
Fort Dix, and New Jersey’s national guard was
activated as the 44th Division, U. S. Army.

Then, as now, Dix stood on the edge of the
Jersey pine barrens in Burlington County, ap-
proximately halfway between New York and Phil-
adelphia. Trenton is about twenty miles away, too
far for off—hour relaxation. Nearby \Vrightstown
was limited, to say the least, in recreation facil-
ities. Mrs. Grobler was not the only one who felt
that the old adage, “Satan finds some mischief still
for idle hands to do,” might be applicable here.

Mrs. Grobler’s recipe for the Center in 1917
consisted of gathering her friends and their friends
about her in a nucleus of workers. She followed
the same pattern in 1940. These women all lived
within a thirty-mile radius of Dix, in Burlington
County or across the Delaware in the Philadelphia
suburbs. Each belonged to some group—the
\Voman’s Club, the Garden Club, the PTA, the
\Vomen’s Republican Club, the Philadelphia Club
of Advertising \V omen, the Methodist Ladies’
Aid, to mention a few. Several were Red Cross
Grey Ladies. Each formed, from among members
of her own organization, a nucleus of workers who
assumed responsibilities for the activities of the
Center, a whole or half day each week. \Vhen the
closing day came in April, 1946, 1,005 volunteers
had earned the Fort Dix Community Citation for
meritorious service, some from as far away as
Newark and Atlantic City.

At first their activities centered around the rec-

SQUARE DANCE CAMP

June 20th to 26th. I949
Camp Matollionequay. Medfordl New Jersey

INSTRUCTORS

JIMMY CLOSSIN of El Paso, Texas
RALPH PIPER of the University of Minnesota
CHARLEY THOMAS of Woodbury, N. J.

Dances from all sections of the United States taught

For information write

AMERICAN SQUARES
l2I-7 DELAWARE STREET. woooauav. N. J.

 

reation hall of the Pointville Methodist Church,
where the Community Service came into being,
back in 1917. Later, as the USO program got
underway, a handsome building, identical to the
USO building at VVrightstown, and built by the
Federal Security Agency, was erected and turned
over to Community Service. Just in time, too, for
with the expansion of Fort Dix, the entire hamlet
of Pointville, with the exception of the church and
burying ground, disappeared.

Mrs. Grobler and her co-workers wanted the
G. I.’s to keep on thinking that the Community
Center "feels like home.” That was the basis of
every activity, the responsibility of every volunteer
worker. Tennis tables were there, and quoit
courts; space for a game of softball was available;
inside was a well-stocked library with comfortable
chairs for reading, card tables and just about every
type of parlor game you could think of, a phono-
graph and records ranging from boogie-woogie to
Bach, a writing room with plenty of paper, and
pens that really worked. Later, in the new build—
ing, an auditorium for dancing and stage and
movie shows, a handcraft shop, art studio and in—
structors were included. Volunteers who had spe-
cialized skills and time to teach young men who
needed something to do were rallied. Members of
the staff of the Tyler School of Fine Arts of Tem-
ple University lent their talents every Wednesday.

Most important of all were the good hot coffee,
the cakes baked in neighborhood kitchens, the
thick, nourishing sandwiches and the crisp cookies
—always prepared by the women themselves. Not
once did the volunteers at Community Center let
down the tradition of home-prepared food. They
knew that eating is mighty important to young
men and that a steaming cup of coffee does a lot
to make a trainee lose his feeling of homesickness.

The average G. 1., coming in for his first visit
to the Center, took a little time to become oriented.
The doors opened into a vast living room, simply

GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE

CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

Professional Training in Community Recreation
Undergraduate and Graduate Work
Coeducational

DEGREES: Bachelor of Science and Master of Science in

Recreation. Outdoor activity courses taught at Summer
Camp grounds on Lake Geneva, W’is.

For further information write:

Admissions Counsellor. George Williams College
53rd and Drexel Avenue. Chicago I5. Illinois

RECREATION

but tastefully furnished, with comfortable chairs
facing a gigantic fireplace. Doors at either side of
the fireplace led to the auditorium. The new trainee
would finger the change in his pocket, sidle over
to the counter and ask, “How much is coffee?”
When assured it was free, he would add, “How
much for a piece of cake?” “Everything is free
here,” he was told. Some soldiers retorted, “I’ve
been in eight camps before coming to Dix, and this
is the first time I’ve seen anything free yet.”
There was the boy who sat by himself, imper—
vious to friendly overtures made by other service-
men or hostesses. Finally, he walked over to gray-
haired Myrtle Henderson, who was setting out
plates of cake and cookies and pie, ready for the
evening rush. “Lady,” he pleaded shyly, “will you
talk to me a minute? You look just like my
mother.” And the women who ran Community
Center always had time to talk to homesick boys.
Husbands were welcome as volunteers, too.
They usually provided transportation for the
women and helped carry the trays of food. They
took charge of the soldiers’ coats and caps, and
were ready to provide a fourth hand at bridge.
One of the husbands, Jack Werner, was drawn
into a group of Iowa farm boys, members of the
Ist Armored Division. They were outward bound
and knew it. They were scared, too—not of the
Luftwaffe, or the U-boats, but of the sea.

“W hat’s it like?” one towheaded youngster
asked Werner. “Did you ever get seasick?”

A Navy veteran of World War I, Jack Werner
was able to reassure them. He told them exactly
what they had to face, what his own reactions had
been twenty-odd years before. They went back to
their barracks comforted.

Volunteers loved their work at Community
Center, but it was no “snap.” Betty Werner, for
instance, had charge of the five to eleven p.m. shift
on Saturdays. Actually, her job began on Tues—
day or Wednesday, when she spent a good part of
the day on the telephone, reminding friends in
Riverton and Palmyra of their duties. “Don’t for-
get that Saturday’s our day at Dix,” she’d tell
them. “Can you make another of those burnt-
sugar cakes you do so well?” (Or a Dutch apple
pie, or lemon tarts, or a batch of fudge—#what-
ever was the specialty of the phonee.) She listed
all the promised contributions carefully and made
another list of the workers. I

At two pm. Saturday afternoon, her husband,
Jack, took over. First he collected the food, not
forgetting to stop at a nearby farm on the pike for
a basket of fresh-picked peaches or apples, depend-
ing on the season. With his car trunk filled, he

APRIL 1949

would start picking up the workers, for Dix was
a good hour’s drive away. (Remember the thirty-
five mph wartime driving speed?)

The nine to live p.m. groups would be just going
off duty when Jack’s carload, and another from
the Jenkintown Women’s Republican Club. would
arrive. Quickly the new workers would take over
-——Frank JacobsOn and Jack in the checkroom,
where as many as 2,400 coats and caps were
counted in one evening; the ladies in hour-on,
hour-off shifts, in the kitchen and at the coffee bar.
The hour-off would be Spent just wandering
around, talking to any boy who looked as if he
needed a friendly chat, or sewing on buttons and
insignia. Some time during the evening the loud-
speaker would issue a summons for a “fourth at
bridge,” or “a couple of guys for pinochle.” Then
the men in the checkroom would yell for relief and
take a hand.

And what does it all add up to? Nothing more
—and nothing less—than a place that truly “feels
like home.” A place that was needed in 1917, in
1940, and is needed again today. And it can be
provided at any Army post in the country, by fol-
lowing this simple pattern.

Recreation Volunteers Needed

“Morale” is a word we use a good deal in time
of war. During the years 1941 through 1945, civil—
ians worked hard to keep high the morale of the
men defending our country. Today the word seems
remote—as does our obligation. to share the coun-
try’s program of defense. Morale has great signifi-
cance, however, for the 250,000 young men who
will soon be drafted to serve in our Army and
Navy. And the word is close to the families of
these young men, who know that a peacetime mili-
tary force is often left without necessary and
healthy facilities for normal recreation.

What is your community doing to keep these
young men from losing touch with civilian life?
Have you a part in this program? These new men
in uniform, generally in their formative years, need
the simple, friendly services which civilians can
give. It may be a pleasant place to read in off-
duty hours, or a snack bar where soft drinks and
homemade cookies are dispensed. These are the
little things which help morale. The USO, the
Red Cross, the community service clubs, the
churches—each should have a part in the business
of peacetime morale, and there is a place in this
program for you.

“Being a volunteer for a worthy cause is a privi-
lege that brings deep pride and satisfaction.” Rabbi
Bernard Baskin, Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

35

Meet the Smith-Family . . .

In campaign. for recreation
levy, the Recreation Depart-
ment of Akron, Ohio, sends
out leaflet carrying the fol-
lowing story, with pictures.

OLKS, MEET John Smith, Mrs. Smith, Tommy

Smith—age fifteen, Betty Smith—age thir-
teen, and Billy Smith—age nine. Mr. Smith works
in a rubber factory and owns an average home in
Akron, Ohio.

He pays the 2/10 mill recreation levy tax which
amounts to sixty cents per year, or less than two
cents per week. This amount provides supervision
and equipment for the summer playground at
Jones School two blocks away and at the Fun
Park playground, which is eight blocks away.

Billy, Betty and Tommy all go to the Jones
School playground which is open Monday through

  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
     

 

DIAMOND

SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
.
Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond States and Official
Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH. MINH

36

 

Friday, from I pm. to 9 p.111. The two trained
playground leaders, a man and a woman, have
arranged an attractive program for the week for
all members of the family.

Billy plays on the cherub softball team as well
as in the playground orchestra, which gives a con-
cert in a different park each week. He also likes
to play ping-pong, checkers, and listen to stories.

Betty plays in the playground orchestra, takes
part in playground dramatics and likes to make
useful articles for her mother in handcraft classes.
She goes to the Fun Park playground once a week
for tennis instruction.

Tommy plays on the playground intermediate
softball team, the boys’ volleyball team and is cap-
tain of the Playground Safety Patrol. He goes to
the park once a week for tennis instruction, and
to the baseball school. He also plays in the High
School Recreation Band, which gives concerts once
a week in a different park.

Mom and Pop are going to the playground pic-
nic Friday evening. Mom will play on the mother’s
team while Pop has signed up with the dad’s squad.
Dad won the playground horseshoe pitching cham-
pionship. Both Mom and Dad enjoy going to the
recreation orchestra and band concerts, as well as
to baseball and softball games.

In the winter time, Tommy and Betty go to the
community center once a week, where they play
basketball, volleyball, ping-pong and have a social
party once a month. They also go skating several
times a week.

All of these clean, wholesome activities, and
many more sponsored by the Recreation Depart-
ment, are paid for by Pop’s sixty cents a year,
210ths of a mill recreation levy tax.

“Yes, sir,” Pop Smith says, “that sixty cents
(less than the cost of one movie) is sure the best
investment I ever made for this family.”

Whatcha Goin' to do this Summer?

You better order the

Summer Playground Notebook NOW

12 issues $1.50

National Recreation Association
3l5 Fourth Avenue New York ID. New York

RECREATION

The Handicapped Play, T00

ANDICAPPED CHILDREN DO not feel out-of—place
H in the special recreation classes conducted
for them by the Jefferson County, Kentucky, Play-
ground and Recreation Board. Here a child’s un-
coordinated attempts to bounce a rubber ball go
unnoticed by the other children, and awkwardness
is no occasion for staring and commenting.

This experimental program, believed to be
unique among county or city recreation depart-
ments, includes a class at four Louisville schools
each week, attended by spastics, polio and arthritis
victims and blind children. Expert supervision is
required when the children who are able use the
swings or see-saws. They know what they want
to do, but their bodies do not always respond. One
of the class instructors, whose special project in
one group was teaching a blind boy to catch a ball
by listening to the bounce, is herself a spastic.

This program is quite an undertaking, accord-
ing to Charlie Vettiner, director of the Board.
“These handicapped children might be self-con—
scious with other children. Our theory is that they
will learn to play, and eventually be able to play
“with other children without the embarrassment
that is so painful to childhood. And I believe we
are right. So far the program has worked wonder-
fully well.”

That the undertaking has been successful in pro-
viding a good time for the handicapped is evi—
denced by the following letter written by Don
Gillespie, a teen-ager, to the Louisville Times:

“My Mom and I want to write a letter of thanks
to the Jefferson County Playground and Recrea-
tion Board for giving a swell break to cripples.

GRANTLAND RICE’S

  

“\Ve can now see movies, meet old friends and
make new ones. We have a swell time playing
volley ball and other games with others like our—
selves who used to just sit around home wonder-
ing why there wasn’t something we could do to
pass long days like regular girls and guys . . . .

“In fact, now it’s almost like looking forward
to Christmas on Tuesdays, for Tuesday is our day
to really have a wonderful time, thanks to the

Board’s big hearts. . . .”
(See “Pioneering in Cerebral Palsy,” page 15.—Ed.)

Unmet Needs

HE ASSOCIATION FOR Childhood Education, in
deve10ping and planning action for 1949 to
19 5 I , sent out a questionnaire to their local branches
asking them to list the unmet needs of children.

Out of I37 replies from these branches, I31 put
recreation as an unmet need. Fifty-four listed
playgrounds and playground equipment as being
an unmet need. This had to do with children over
six years of age.

In the questionnaire dealing with children less
than six years old, forty-four replies listed play-
grounds and playground equipment, and twenty-
six listed recreation as the unmet need.

-~.-, 3";

rm: Choice

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Simplijied S C O R E G U I D E S  for

. For the Best Records in Sports  .‘ f S t ’
L s ' A —-|0" I4" - B +0 + +' 
MESH: c8211: rea e ons we :on   3
Spiral Boun ~ ML- .

*Baleball.756&$l.50 OFFI -- l Ava'lable

* Softball. 756 8: “.50 ‘
* Basketball, $_|.50

* Bowling. $I.OO

Sold by Leading
Sporting Goods Stores
or

Send Money Order
Dept. R-4

WELLS PUBLISHING CO. 0

Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

W W' am
I'll! FINISI' I” I'll! FIILD .’
MANUIAC‘IUIING COMPANY - SI. LOLIIS 3 MO.

    

     

LEONIA, N. J.

     

 

APRIL 1949 37

Write or wire for prices
on these KOLITE balls

J Basketball
J Football
4 Soccer Ball

WITH THE KOLITE* COVER

 

“This ballhas everything” . . . “Looks right
—feels right—is right” . . . Such are the opin-
ions of great coaches and famous players!

OurnewSeamless580hasallthatanda
lot more. To the carcass or body of the fa-

mous 580 we have added a truly remark-
able KOLITE cover—a cover that “stays
new” longer than leather or rubber and
will not mark the court.

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1877

Kolite is a basically new abrasion resist-
ant material . . . Tougher than rubber . . .
Looks and feels like fine leather . . . Out-
wears both . . . 100% waterproof. . . Scuff—
proof and mildew-proof . . . Another ex-
ample of Seamless quality!

Koliten gives you a ball that comes very
close to 100% perfection—yet priced right.
*Patent pending.

ATHLETIC GOODS DIVSSION

'l'I-IE SEAMLESS IIIIBBEII IIIIMIIAHY

NEW HAVEN 3. CONN... U. S. A.

 

 

REG.

U. ‘-
PAY.

At Headquarters . . .
Virginia Musselman

 

RACTICALLY EVERYONE IN the recreation field
P corresponds with Virginia Musselman, of the
National Recreation Association, at one time or
another. To many, she is a name signed at the
bottom of a warm, understanding letter which
clears up some problem of recreation—perhaps
having to do with program, equipment, adminis-
tration, organization, what-have-you, or offering
suggestions for hobbies, games, a thesis, and so on.
To the office mail-room she is the recipient of the
heaviest batch of daily mail, for she is in charge of
the Correspondence and Consultation Bureau.

Actually, Virginia is tall, striking looking, and
has a wide and ready smile. She always wears gay
colors, keeps flowers on her desk, speaks with a
soft Southern accent, and is interested in just
about everything. She has a habit, too, of getting
steamed up about some one thing, dashing off to a
secluded corner and writing about it. Almost in-
variably, it turns out to be on a subject where help
or information is sorely needed. Thus, out of the
blue—so to speak—“Teen Trouble,” “Home Play
in Wartime,” and various others of the National
Recreation booklets have been born at a time when
there has seemed to be no other publications on the
market offering suggestions in these areas of work.
Since the appearance of “Teen Trouble,” much
good material on the subject of teen centers has ap-
peared. But, at that time, there was nothing—and

APRIL 1949

the response to the pamphlet was overwhelming.
She, therefore, is justified in feeling that this proj-
ect is one of the most satisfying that she has un-
dertaken while with the Association.

Naturally, in her capacity as consultant, she
must keep up with all the latest publications, re-
ports of recreation commissions, experiments in
various communities, what is being done recrea-
tion-wise everywhere, latest hobbies, newest trends
———ad infinitum. During the course of these activi-
ties, too, she is always finding choice tidbits, pho-
tographs, new ideas which intrigue her. With these
and enthusiasm in hand, she is apt to swoop hope-
fully down upon an unsuspecting fellow staff mem-
ber—the staff of RECREATION magazine and the
Bulletin Service included—saying, “Don’t you
want to print this?”

These last two years she has taken over the
writing of the Summer Playground N otebook—and
a good thing too, for more than ever, if possible, it
is bristling with ideas and suggestions. (At this
writing the new edition is just off the press. Have
you ordered? See page 36.—Ed.)

Virginia Musselman says, in looking back, that
she got into recreation work not quite by accident.
While still in high school, she obtained her first
job—in charge of one of the playgrounds in the
first recreation program of her home. town, Dan-
ville, Virginia. All summer she rode back and
forth on the trolley, earning her first money—the
tremendous sum of ninety dollars for the season.
She promptly spent it for what she wanted most
in life at the moment—a white turtleneck sweater,

a good tennis racquet and a pair of red shoes—and
has never felt so wealthy since!

When she went off to State Teachers College in
Fredericksburg, Virginia (now Mary Washington
College), she majored in English and history. In
addition, remembering childhood hours spent in
the lovely grove around the elementary school,
playing Prisoners’ Base, basketball in winter and
tennis every morning in summer, she blithely signed
up for all the sports and recreation activities avail-
able. The unexpected result of such energetic par-
ticipation came as a great surprise. At the end of
her third year she was called into the office and
told that, with so many physical education credits,
she had completed her college course in three years.
In other words, she was through—finis! During
those three years, she had played on the basketball
team, played hockey, tennis, been active in the
dramatics club and, for two years, had been in

charge of the college year book. This last activity
gave her the chance to do the writing that she
loved. She has been doing it ever since.

39

After her abruptly concluded college days, she
taught English for two years, thoroughly enjOying
the sharing of her appreciation of English litera-
ture and helping in the coaching of school athletics.
One teaching job, in South Dakota, was accepted
rather hurriedly and, after she was comfortably
ensconced, Virginia wrote home, breaking the glad
tidings. She received an immediate and bewildered
wire from her mother, “\\"here is South Dakota 9"

After a year, however, the Southern girl grew
homesick for the trees and hills of the Eastern sea-
board. She returned, therefore, for a year at C0-
lumbia University, and registered for those courses
which appealed to her most—sandwiching a course
in swimming in-between many hours of literature.
This was one sport which she had never had a
chance to learn.

\Vhile there, and more or less trying to decide
upon the future, one of her friends suggested that
she might like a camping job. She followed up this
idea with alacrity, and for the next three years was
director of a teen-age summer camp, under the
sponsorship of a social agency, serving under-privi-
leged children of all nationalities. These children,
knowing little or nothing of the country, came in
two groups, for live weeks each during the season,
and Virginia Musselman found working with them
a worthwhile and rewarding experience. To many
of the boys and girls, unable to pronounce her
name, she became known forever after as “Miss
Muffleson.”

Among the many humorous events of those sum-
mers, she particularly recalls the violent thunder-
storms which terrified her. The campers lived and
slept in a huge building, the sides of which could
be thrown open to the out-of-doors. One of her
memories is of wandering about, during these
storms, in the middle of the night—spurred on by
her responsibility as director, but consumed with
fear and trembling—to close the shutters to wind

“Tops” in
Good Sport
LEARN ABOUT

TRAMPOLINING

Founded by NISS E N—

Creator of America's First
Standard TRAMPOLINE

A lively playground attraction for all ages.
Write for FREE LITERATURE.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

 
  

 

and rain.

Upon returning to New York, she remained with
the same organization to do emergency recreation
work with private agencies and later to help with
training for recreation work in its special Recrea-
tion Training School.

It was in 1941, as a natural course of events, that
she found her way to the National Recreation As-
sociation, becoming a regular member of the staff
in June of that year. Her experience and interests
suited her to consultation responsibilities and, im-
mediately, she was working with George Butler in
the Correspondence and Consultation Bureau.

Virginia Musselman gives much to her job. De-
tails of her work with the Association are described
in her article, A Business Without a Balance Sheet,
on page nine of this issue of RECREATION.

She lives in midtown New York and shares a
little house in Connecticut with her apartment mate.
There, in summer and on spring and fall week-
ends, she loves to putter about doing the “outside
work,” as she puts it—building walls, walks, spray-
ing bugs, transplanting flowers, working in her
garden. Gardening, plant raising, birds, nature
subjects are her hobbies.

Then, too, there are the trips home to be fitted
into her schedule somewhere. Years ago, her father
came from Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, and
settled in Danville. \Vhen accused of being a
Southerner, Virginia Musselman says, “Well, I
must be part Northern, part Southern. \Vhen, as
a child, I visited my Northern relatives, we fought
the Civil War from the Northern side, while at
home we always fought it the other way !”

 

Music Strengthens Friendly Ties
Observe NATIONAL MUSIC WEEK

May 1-8, 1949

laliaaal Society for Crippled children and
Adults, 11 So. laSalle 8L. cubical-go 3, Ill.

RECREATION

_.—v
_—-
—-

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
      

O Bathers naturally prefer a pool that is always sparkling
clean. That’s why it pays you to paint with RAMUC. RAMUC is a
special waterproof enamel that gives a gleaming tile-like finish
to concrete surfaces—a finish that is easy to clean and to keep
clean—a finish that definitely discourages algae growth. No need
to paint every year, either! RAMUC lasts season after season
without blistering, peeling or fading—even under the strongest

1 sun. Available in 12 attractive colors.
In every field of sport in Protes-

sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base.
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges’and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial RecreationI
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment isrec'ognized as a hall-
marl: of quality and unvarying
performance..

Keep water sparkling, too!

Eliminate unsightly algae and slime with EXALGAE, a marvelous
new liquid by the makers of RAMUC. EXALGAE not only destroys
algae but prevents further growth! It’s colorless, odorless, will
not stain pool finishes nor irritate the skin or eyes.

For complete information about these profit-building prod-
ucts — plus helpful hints on pool maintenance —,write for
“Swimming Pool Handbook.” It’s free!

Ramuc—Exalgae, Registered Trademarks

INERTOL CO., INC.

480 Frelinghuysen Avenue l9 South Park
Newark 5, N. J. San Francisco 7, Calif.

  .7226. ;_:‘.-:-:--..-..'.::.:-::-:::.a:

mold II llo adoa-u-ul ._
at national plnllol hqu

II.) a
,-_:',__,.I_,};:= crnctuuntl :4. unto u. s. A.

 

 

 

Flexi Swing Seat

“A Safe Swing Seat”
ORDER TODAY

0 FLEXI gently squeezes user—No tilting o The FLEXI is evidence that the administration is doing
0 Malleab|e cadmium p|a+ed {pf-rings its utmost to protect children from bodily iniury

0 Four ply rubberized fabric 0 FLEXI does not allow user to stand up

0 Will Gui-wear wood 5ea+5 No high flying by single or double occupants

o

Fittings are clamped to belting and riveted 0 Price $3.85 F..O.B. Factory

IT CAN AND DOES HAPPEN SAFETY FIRST

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT

P.O. BOX 474, HIGHLAND PARK, ILL.

 

APRIL 1949 41

observe the SAfE Cubical Construction

 

a
‘v
v

0:?
Q
2
)
-<
537
In
'1-
'.m -.VJ'.
Yt-V‘ .
‘M‘M'AV‘U'A ‘
'Ilra'I'sV‘if‘
1""

   

—but no imitation has the safe cubical conStruc-

tion that has set JUNGLEGYM apart from

all Other climbing Structures since its introduction

nearly a third of a century ago. More than one hun-
dred million child-play-hours have been dev0ted

to JUNGLEGYM without a single serious accident. No

wonder thousands of JUNGLEGYMS are in daily use from
coat to coat! Why not give the children of your play-

ground the advantages of JUNGLEGYM . . . now? W k

illustrated bulletin
on Porter’s 1949

Reg. U. 5. Pat. oer. l   ~ g _ r 
I I . .,.   I  V n _
Clrmlung structure "lint «Sara
gl-aéné’g 5%." i
  <Illh e’iis D
SAFE . . . because made up of   
cellular compartments: SAFE. . . 1 - ‘    " ’ '
. 5.: Is.  'I «I.
because a secure handheld If, "*- ' _ ,w" ‘. “""< 
is always within easy reach.' ' ‘    
0 There are many imitators of JUNGLEGYLI  I ' f 

 

THE l. E. ' CORPORATION
- OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFAUURERS 0F PEAYGROUNm GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS OF THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

Re9.U.s.PaI.orr. STRUCTURE

 

42 RECREATION

RECREATION CONGRESS

76570 0215,4725

SEPTEMBER 12-16, 1949

FOR THE FIRST TIME in twenty years, the National

Recreation Congress will move into the deep
South. In New Orleans, one of America’s most
picturesque cities, delegates from all parts of the
nation will congregate; and all who are interested
in the recreation movement are cordially invited
to attend.

We call your special attention to the hotel situa-
tion in New Orleans and ask the cooperation of all
prospective delegates.

Reservations for rooms during the Recreation
Congress must be made through a central housing
bureau set up in the New Orleans Recreation De-
partment. A Special form for your use has been pre—
pared. If you have received one, please fill it out
and mail it to Richard Dixon, New Orleans Rec—
reation Department, City Hall, New Orleans 12,
Louisiana. If you have not, the following informa-
tion should be sent with your request for rooms:

Please reserve for me, during the Recreation
Congress, a (double bed or twin beds) room. My

choice of hotel is: First choice . . . . . . . . . . Second

choice . . . . . . . . . . Third choice . . . . . . . . . ..
I expect to arrive about (a.m.—p.m.) on (date).

O I t a t o I I u I g o o I

Very few bedrooms for single occupancy are avail-
able. Everyone who can is urged to share a room.

I will share a twin bedroom with . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Note—both parties should make a reservation.)

REMARKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Agency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Rooms have been scheduled in the following
hotels. Additional hotels will be added later.

APPROXIMATE RANGE or Room Rams

Roosevelt Twins Double: Singles
(headquarters) . . . . . $11-12 $7-8-9 $5-6-7
Jung . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$8-9-10-11-12 {57-8-9 $5-6-7

Monteleone . . . . . . . . . .$8-9-10—ll-12 $7-8—9 $5454

St. Charles . . . . . . . . . . .$8-9-lO—ll-12 {57-8-9 $5-6-7

New Orleans . . . . . . . . .$8 $6-7

DeSoto . . . . . . . . . . . . .,.$7-8 $5-6

Lafayette . . . . . . . . . . . .$6-7 $5-6

LaSalle . . .I . . . . . . . . . . .$6—7-8 $5-7

Pontchartrain . . . . . . . .$7.50—12 $2.50-7.50

Bienville . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Orleans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i no rates qumed'
APRIL 1949

 

SAV-A-PITCH
PITCHER’S

SAV-A-LEG
HOME
PLATE

 

5’4
‘fo'rWWé éeme/

SAV—A-PITCH PITCHER'S PLATE. New, official-

sized, four-sided plate. Reinforced. Stays
new longer . . . and therefore saves money!

SAV-A-LEG HOME PLATE. The ofEcial home
plate in both Major Leagues! Bevels into
the ground. Prevents accidents in sliding.

SEAMLESS PRU-CAP ATHLETIC TAPE.
Little or no itching—and
little or no skin irritation!

   
  

IEO-
‘* Patent Pending u.s.

PAT.

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1877 °"‘

     

a 
41mg,

ATHLETIC GOODS DIVISION

THE SEAMIESE IIIIIIBEII IIIMIIAIIV
NEW HAVEN 3, comm, U._S.A. ‘

    
 

 

43

 

  
   
    
  
  
     
   

Every important
major league bai-
l'ing record has been
made Wl'l’l'l Louisville
Slugger bats. Be
sure to loolt for the
signature of a cham-
pion on the bet you
buy . . . and you'll
be sure to get a

genuine Louisville

or nus
CHAMPIONS
ARE rouun ONLY

on THE BAT or

W

HILLERICH & BRADSBY co.
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

 

UNIVERSAL’S
HANDICBAFT
CATALOG

ISO-PAGE NEW EDITION

*Animaljigs
Art Metalry
Art Supplies
Basketry
\ BOOkS
' Carving
Block Printing
Braiding
Ceramics
Knotting
Leathercraft
Looms
Plastics

To Teachers and Eggs" Belle“

Group Leaders 1500 Items
50 cents to individuals

UNIVERSAL

HANDICRAFTS SERVICE

Department R

1267 Sixth Ave., New York 19, N. Y.

 

’Pat. Reg. U. S. Pat. OE.

 

WANTED:

Graduate Registered Occupational Ther-

apists and trained Recreation Workers
for assignment in Illinois State psychia-
tric hospitals, schools for mental defect-
ives, children’s and correctional institu-
tions. Civil Service positions, career
service With opportunity for advance~
ment—good salaries, excellent retirement

and insurance plan. Maintenance avail-

able if desired.

Applicants may contact

MISS BERTHA E. SCHLO'ITER

Room 1500, 160 North LaSalle Street
Chicago 1, Illinois

RECREATION

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Manual of Minimum Standards for Camps. The Com-
mittee on Camp Standards, Camp Section, Greater
Boston Community Council, 261 Franklin Street,
Boston, Massachusetts, 1948. Forty-three pages.
Price $1.25.

Park Maintenance, November 1948
Turf Experiment, J. A. DeFrance.
She’s Boss of Parks at Grand Forks, N. D., W. B.

Allen.

Beach and Pool, November 1948
Recreation Leaders Exchange Ideas at 30th Na-
tional Recreation Congress.
Recirculation Period for Swimming Pools, R. N.
Perkins, Sr.
Swimming Pool Danger Chart.
Laminated vs One Piece Diving Boards, M. H.

Naigles.
A Pool for the Farmers of New York.

The Cuyamaca Story—San Diego’s City-County
School Camp. San Diego City—County Camp Com—
.mission, San Diego, California.

Parks and Recreation, December 1948

Parkways—Past, Present and Future, Stanley W.
Abbott.

Ten Million Dollar Recreation Plant from Sal-
vage, Tom Deering.

A Look at Twenty—live Years Ahead.

Municipal and State Parks of Connecticut.

“The Second Fifty Years”— Another Point of
View, Walter Roy. '

The Maintenance Mart.

Architectural Record, December 1948

A City Glorilies Its “Old Swimming Hole,” Dan
J. Driscoll.

Recreation Buildings, F. Ellwood Allen and
Weaver W. Pangburn.

We_st Coast Innovations in Swimming Pool De-
SIgn. °

Swimming Pool Design Data for Competitive
Swimming, Based on A.A.U. Rules.

Swimming Pool Design Data for Health and
Safety.

Journal of Health, Physical Education and Recrea-
tion, December 1948
Recreation Is Not Therapy, Carolyn J. Nice.
Junior Barn Dance, Robert H. Hager.

Youth Leaders’ Digest, December 1948
Leadership Is Infiuence.
Commercial Sponsorship of Youth Projects, Ben
Solomon.

About 100 Bpoks. A bibliography to promote human
understanding among .young readers. Division of
Youth Serv1ces, American Jewish Committee, 386

Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Free.

Leisure Time Activities of Collier’s Adult Readers.
Crowell-Collier Publishing Company, 250 Park
Avenue, New York 17.

Parks and Recreation, January 1949

Progress with Park and Recreation Week, Fred
G. Heuchling.

A Look at Twenty-Five Years Ahead, George
Hjelte, Jerome Dretzka, Fletcher A. Reynolds,
E. A. Gallup.

Public Relations for Park Districts, Fred G.
Heuchling.

Construction and Maintenance of Baseball Dia-
monds, Bobby Doerr, Verne Hernlund, Art
Schultz.

Maintenance Mart.

Article Contest for 1949.

APRIL 1949

 

Alew
McGRAW-Hlll

EMA/1

INTRODUCTION TO COMMUNITY RECREATION

By GEORGE D. BUTLER, National Recreation

Association. Second edition, 558 pages,
6 x 9. $4.50

This thoroughly revised edition is the answer to the
demand, which has been increasing since the begin-
ning of the Second World War, for this type of
book. This text deals with those forms of recreation
which require a large degree of organization and
leadership and in which participation plays an im-
portant part. It considers'recreation as a function
of local government, like health, education, and
other essential public services.

FIELIIBOOK OF NATURAL HISTORY

By E. LAURENCE PALMER, Cornell University.
682 pages, 6 x 9, fully illustrated. $7.00.

Textbook edition available

Here, in one convenient volume, is an extraordinar-
ily comprehensive guide to natural history. This
fieldbook embraces birds, fish, plants, rocks and
minerals, the stars, mollusks, reptiles, and mammals
-—more than 2,000 items and hundreds of pictures
arranged and tabulated for easy reference. Each
item has its descriptive identification, followed by
data on range and location, life history, ecology,
and economic importance. Common names, illus-
trations, and technical classifications are given for
each item in this book.

Send for copies an approval

McGRAW—Hl LL
BOOK COMPANY, Inc.

330 WEST 42nd STREET
NEW YORK I8. N. Y.

 

45

THE BEST IN RECREATION
AT 600. A COPY

Sentinel Books offer intelligent guidance
to help you plan more varied and inter-
esting programs throughout the year.

Written by recognized authorities, they are in-
tended to help pe0ple get started on a new hobby
or renew their interest in an old one, and often
require little or no supervision. These books are
fully illustrated with explanatory drawings and
photographs and emphasize easy-to-follow, step-by-
step instructions for beginning and completing
projects.

Chicago Recreation News says: “For basic infor-
mation on a wide variety of recreational activities,
one does not have to go beyond the publications
inexpensively published by Sentinel Books.”

Creative Handicrafts . . . . . . . . . .Mabel R. Hutchins
The American Square Dance . . . . . . . . Margot Mayo
Discover the Stars . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gaylord Johnson
An Introduction to Magic. . . . .. . .Sherman Ripley
Care and Feeding of Hobby Horses. . .E. E. Calkins
Music For Everybody . . . . . . . . . . . .Sigmund Spaeth
How to "Take" Fresh Water Fish. . . .M. H. Decker
How to Sail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Samuel Carter III
How to Make Music on the Harmonica. .P.V. Planta
Hiker's Guide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ben Solomon
Why Not Paint a Watercolor . . . . . . . . . . .F. Steam
You Can Write . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .F. Fraser Bond
How to Sell What You Write. . - .Myron M. Stearns
Working With Tools . . . . . . . . . . . . .~Harry J. Hobbs
Photography For Fun. .Wm. Strong & Jack Garber
Chess In An Hour . . . . . . . . . . . . . .FranI: J. Marshall

How Smart Are You? . . . . . . . . . . ..Fred Menaclter

Fishing In Pacific Waters . . . . . . . . . . . . .J. C. Davis

American Combat Judo . . . . . . .Bernard J. Cosneck

Quilting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elizabeth King
Reading Character From Handwriting . . . . .D. Sara
Tropical Fish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lucile Q. Mann

Your Dog From Puppyhood to Old Age. .J. Z. Rine
What to Do About Your Invention . . Edward Thomas
Motor Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Porter Varney

Special Offer to Recreation Groups—
Your Choice of 10 Books For $5.00

Send your remittance to:

Sentinel Books Publishers lnc., Dept. R4
112 East 19th Street, New York 3, N. Y.

For single copies, please add 10“
for handling and mailing.

 

Readers Say . . . . .

BuyingGuicle

 

{married a - edited by the publishers ol
CAMPING MAGAZINE

. . . the new I949 Handbook is a
wonder. Last year's book was good.
but this is I00°/° better. Every camp
director should have one.

—P. S.. Illinois
Order Now—$1.50 each, 2 for $2.00

If payment accompanies order, we pay postage

HOWARD P. GALLOWAY. Publisher
181 Chestnut Avenue Metuchen, N. J.

CRAFT
SUPPLIES

Cleveland Crafts offers a large selection of handi-
craft supplies for children and adults. Prices are
reasonably low and each order is given prompt
attention. Among the various craftwork supplies are :

 

 
    
   
   
     
       
         
   
 
   
     
 
      
       

 
 

O Lacing 0 Flexcratt

0 Leather 0 Pipe-Cleaner Cratt
O Metals 0 Indian Beads

0 Cork 0 Pyrography

O Felt 0 Etching on Glass
0 Tools 0 Handcraft Books

0 Shellcratt 0 Rubber Molds

O Textile Painting
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY

CATALOG OF

Handicraft Supplies

Sent free upon request

 

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

DE} In R'l

CLEVELAND I5. OHIO
HOUSTON 6. TEXAS

 

770-74 CARNEGIE AVE.
330! MILAN

 

RECREATION

 

New Score Guides

Published and distributed by Wells Publishing
Company, Leonia, New Jersey.
IF YOU’VE EVER had occasion to keep score—

whether as umpire, recreation leader or just
Joe Spectator—you’ll appreciate these spiral-bound
books. They hold space for everything you might
want to record or remember about your favorite
sports activities. Yet, these books are simplified so
that score-keeping doesn’t interfere with the en—
joyment of the games, and official, so that they are
acceptable for professional and amateur events.
They are also fun to use with your radio or tele-
vision sets, and are very helpful when disputing
past achievements. They are now available for
baseball, softball, basketball and bowling—-—from
75c to $1.50.

Both the Baseball Score Boole and the Basket—
ball Guide, which sell for $1.50 each, contain score
sheets for twenty-five games, complete scoring di—
rections, rules and explanations. You don’t have
to be an expert to learn how tO indicate that the
batter bit into a double play, second to first base,
and sent a man home.

Handbooks of
European National Dances

Edited by Violet Alford. Chanticleer Press, New
York. $1.25 each.

F‘OR YOUR FESTIVAL, playgrounds, dance groups,
community celebrations! The wide and grow-
ing interest in national folk dances has brought
forth a new series of colorful, small-sized hand-
books, sponsored by the Royal Academy of Danc-
ing and the Ling Physical Education Association.
These will prove valuable, not only to teachers,
students, recreation leaders, but to dance lovers in
general.
Written by experts, they contain an introduc-
tion which explains the origins of the various
dances; a detailed description of the national cos—

APBIL 1949

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

tumes, with four beautiful color-plates; and step
notation and music, arranged for easy playing on
the piano, for four selected dances.

Titles now ready are: Dances of Finland by
Anni Collan and Yngvar Heikel ; Dances of Greece
by Domini Crosfield ; Dances of Austria by Kath-
arina Breuer ; Dances of Portugal by Lucile Arm-
strong.

Golf Facilities

Edited by Herb Graliis. National Golf Founda-
tion, 407 South Dearborn Street, Chicago 5,
Illinois. $2.00.

THIS IS A new manual and guide tO aid in the
development of golf facilities, including ade-

quate attention to the problems of public golf

courses, material on organization, planning, build-
ing, maintaining and financing facilities. It should
be a very helpful guide tO anyone planning a golf
course, particularly to smaller communities where

costs are a real consideration.

w. 'W "w ‘W "" '4 ' "Haw-"Ulla."

 

 

Ofiicers and Directors Of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

M Rs. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N_. I.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washm on, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York N. .

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, F itchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan Cit)? Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bell ort, L. 1., . Y.
SUSAN M. Lee, New York, ._Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Auwsta Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, oodburg, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York N.“ .

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Iirancisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. W'ARBURG, New York, N. Y.

47

x “NE FOOTBALLS
BASKETBAl-l-S Outstanding performance line Q
SOCCERBALLS oi industry history.

VOLLEYBALLS

J |_| u E ‘ FOOTBALLS

BASKETBAl-ls New high in quality at new low
‘ SOCCERBALLS incost.
VOLLEYBALLS %

Q

y/s'o: CT850 Tetherball—new 1.90 Hard Ball—ET, ’

and ET; Batting Tees — typical of ‘
l
l

26 amazing new Voit products -- designed
to solve old athletic problems.

,1 /14/M?/?'IJJ 275/!” M/Kék éf/r/y'j/xzwz/

NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, lOS ANGELES 'll

RECREATION

 

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
. o .
Somal Recreation

RUTH EHI.ERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

April and May, 1949

Albuquerque, New Mexico
April 4-8

Lawrence, Kansas
April 18-22 _
Minneapolis, Minnesota
April 25-27

St. Paul. Minnesota
April 28, 29

Hannibal, Missouri
May 2-6

Omaha, Nebraska
May 9-13 '

Alliance, Nebraska
May 23, 24

ScottS'blqu, Nebraska
May 25,26, 27

Winchester, Virginia
April 18-22
Frankfort, Kentucky
April 25-29
Maryland

May 2-6

Akron, Ohio
May 9, 10, 11

Great Falls, Montana
April 4-8

Yakima, Washington
April 11-15

Moscow, Idaho

April 18-22

Spokane, Washington
April 25-29

King County, Washington
May 2-6

Vancouver, Washington
May 9-13 '
Springfield, Oregon
May 23-27

Klamath Falls, Oregon
May 30-June 3

Rust-burg, Virginia
April 4-8

Lancaster, Pennsylvania
April 18—22
Alexandria, Virginia
April 25-29

Lancaster, Pennsylvania
May 2-13

St. Louis, Missouri
May 23-27

Morganton, North Carolina
April 25-29

St. Louis, Missouri

May 2-13

Elkhart, Indiana

May 16-20

Omaha, Nebraska

May 23—27

Jefferson City. Missouri
May 31-June 3

Charles Renfro, Director of Recreation.
Lawrence Heeb,iSuperintendent of Recreation.

Mrs. Alice Dietz, Assistant Director of Recreation,
Board of Park Commissioners.

Frank -C. Kammerlohr, Secretary, Greater Saint Paul
Leisure-Time Activities Council, 400 Wilder Building.
Miss Carolyn Williams, Box 103.

William J. Meyers, Superintendent of Recreation, Park
and Recreation Commission.
A. M. Merrill, City Recreation Director.

Fred L. Johnston, Secretary, Y.M.C.A.

C. A. Hobert, Chairman, Recreation Department.
Alfred Elliott, Director of Recreation.

Miss Ethel E. Sammis, Assistant Superintendent of
Physical Education and Recreation, State Department of
Education, Lexington Building, Baltimore.
A. E. Genter, Superintendent of Recreation.

Kenneth Fowell, Director of Public Recreation.

Ed Putnam, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation,
Metropolitan Park District.

Leon Green, Coordinator of City Recreation,

University of Idaho.

S. G. Witter, Director of Recreation.

David DuBois, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation,
608A County-City Building, Seattle. '
Carl Gustafson, Superintendent of Recreation and
Education.

Mrs. Irene Squires, Superintendent of Willamalane Park
and Recreation District.

Samuel H. Smith, Superintendent of Recreation, Park
and Recreation Department.  

Miss Fay M'oorman, Campbell County School Board.

Mrs. Harland D. Fague, Lancaster Council of Church
Women, 443 S. Queen Street.

Everett W. Johnson, Director, Recreation Center, ,

1005 Pendleton Street.

Mrs. Harland D. Fague, Lancaster Council of Church
Women, 443 S. Queen Street.

Branch Russell, Department of Public Welfare, Parks
and Recreation, 330 Municipal Courts Building.

Charles Stapleton, Superintendent .of Recreatibn.

A. H. Wyman, Executive Director, Park and Playground
Association of St. Louis, 1003 Equitable Building, 613
Locust Street.

K. Mark Cowen, Superintendent, Board of Parks and
Recreation. ~

William J. Meyers, Superintendent of Recreation, Park
and Recreation Commission. *

Ben C. Porter, Director, Parks and Recreation, Jefferson
C1ty Park Board.

 

with Sani-Soil-Set

 

GULF SAN I-SOIL-SET is the practical answer to
your duSt annoyance problems. Here are a few of

the many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
vestigate this efficient dust-control medium now:

HIGHLY EFFECTIVE-Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust
annoyance completely immediately after application.
No long waiting periods are necessary before the ground
is ready for use. The dusr allaying effect is accomplished
by the action of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
ing down dust particles.

 

LONG LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
and insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains

effective for long periods. One application per season or
year is usually sufiicient.

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company

. Division Sales Offices: Boston

  

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,
easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set
prevents the grOWth of grass on areas treated, and mini-
mizes, dust annoyance and expense in near-by houses,
stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or phone your neareSt Gulf office
today and ask for a demonstration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have not yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below.

New York I Philadelphia - Pittsburgh

Atlanta Louisville - Toledo

New Orleans Houston

I:— — — — — — — — ———;-— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —-—

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30. Pa.

I Please send me, without obligation. a copy of the booklet, “Gqu
I Sani-Soil-Set—the modern, proven agent for controlling dust."

: Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
'4‘ Title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

